{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===

* '''Promoting and using the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations|Ubuntu Translations project]]</nowiki>''' (DavidPlanella)
** Continued from previous meeting:
** How to raise awareness of the purpose and usage of the project (to developers, bug triagers, bug reporters)
** Add information in the proper wiki pages
** How to best integrate its usage to the bug triaging process
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bug/455966
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Filing%20translation%20bugs
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/ReportingBugs
** Idea: only i18n should be linked to the source package. l10n bugs should be linked with ubuntu-translations and assigned to ubuntu-l10n-CC teams. As they are automaticaly created, language-packs should be linked only in special cases.

* '''Ubuntu Translations Announcements''' (AdiRoiban)
** Write an announcemnent in once place and it will be automaticaly post on various places
** Aggregated on planet.ubuntu.com - https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+announcements
** Automaticaly send email to ubuntu-translators ML
** Fridge ?

* '''Take a quick look at the current opened tasks''' (AdiRoiban)
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bugs?field.tag=task

* (Deferred) Disabling Hebrew CLI translations (DavidPlanella)
** Hebrew translators want to disable their translations (other RTL languages' translators have either said they don't want to or they haven't expressed any complaints)
** We've got a preliminary list of apps at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHebrewTranslators/CLI
** What options we've got for disabling them
** How do we proceed

=== Attendees ===

* DavidPlanella (chair)
* AdiRoiban
* AronXu

=== Summary ===

==== Promoting and using the Ubuntu Translations project ====

* We will be focusing on using it for bug reporting for now
* We want to define the bug reporting and handling process before widely announcing it
* We agreed on having concise and easy to read instructions on reporting bugs at https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Filing%20translation%20bugs. This page should be for the general audience.
* [ACTION] Contact the QA team to check out the wording and the procedure description for reporting translation bugs (dpm)
* At the same time, we'll work on a separate page describing the procedure for handling translation bugs in detail. This page will be called <nowiki>[[Translations-KnowledgeBase-HandlingBugs | Handling Ubuntu Translations Bugs]]</nowiki>
* The <nowiki>[[Translations-KnowledgeBase-HandlingBugs | Handling Ubuntu Translations Bugs]]</nowiki> page will have a "Brainstorming" session we'll use as a place to discuss the procedures
* The two initial sections on the <nowiki>[[Translations-KnowledgeBase-HandlingBugs | Handling Ubuntu Translations Bugs]]</nowiki> page will be the ones on Tags and Triaging
* [ACTION] Create that page

==== Ubuntu Translations Announcements ====

* We'd like the translations-related announcements to reach the wide translations community, and not only those subscribed to the ubuntu-translators mailing list
* It would be desirable to write announcements once in one place and have them submitted to the mailing list and to Planet Ubuntu
* We could investigate adding the Ubuntu Translations project RSS feed to Planet Ubuntu
* [ACTION] Investigate how this can be done - just adding the feed to the planet's config file? (dpm)
* Another option would be the Fridge
* There is not a known implementation of a system which will allow us to post to planet Ubuntu and to the mailing list automatically.
* For now we'll publish the announcements as usual: both on the mailing list and on the ubuntu-translations feed, but we'll try to get the feed on Planet Ubuntu. We will discuss this on the translations roundtable on UDS as well.
* Adi would also like to look into writing a script to send e-mail from Launchpad

==== Ubuntu Translations tasks ====

* Review of all currently <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bugs?field.tag=task|open tasks]]</nowiki> related to translations which are not marked as wishlist
* kdelibs: we'll talk about the kdelibs templates and other issues at the UDS session on Kubuntu
* apt templates: Adi will talk with mvo about the apt templates
* Switch to Restricted: David e-mailed the Technical Board on that and created a <nowiki>[[UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators-OngoingProjects-SwitchToRestricted|wiki page]]</nowiki> to track the status and the process to follow.
* Template priorities: we can also get together at UDS and talk about that
* In addition Adi has been working on the Chuvash locale to get it included upstream. It was suggested that it might be a good idea to describe his experience on that on a wiki page. A good candidate would be the existing <nowiki>[[Translations-KnowledgeBase-AddingNewLanguage]]</nowiki> page

=== Log ===

<pre>
(17:00:42) dpm: #startmeeting
(17:00:42) MootBot: Meeting started at 09:00. The chair is dpm.
(17:00:42) MootBot: Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
(17:00:51) adiroiban: hi o/
(17:00:56) dpm: so hello everyone, and welcome to this translations meeting
(17:01:03) dpm: hi adiroiban :)
(17:01:07) happyaron: hi
(17:01:17) dpm: hi happyaron o/
(17:01:27) j_ack [n=j_ack@p57A42927.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] a intrat în chat.
(17:01:47) dpm: we've got a bit of a bad timing today, because we're on the same time as OpenWeek
(17:02:02) adiroiban: yep
(17:02:13) dpm: but we can just go along now
(17:02:31) happyaron: ok
(17:02:36) dpm: so just before we start, is there anyone else present for the meeting?
(17:03:37) dpm: ok, it seems there are no more people around. That's fine, let's kick off the first topic
(17:03:44) dpm: [TOPIC] Promoting and using the Ubuntu Translations project
(17:03:45) MootBot: New Topic:  Promoting and using the Ubuntu Translations project
(17:04:04) jsgotangco a ieşit din chat (quit: Client Quit)
(17:04:20) dpm: We've talked about this in previous meetings
(17:04:36) dpm: so far the feedback has been positive on the u-t project
(17:05:01) dpm: and now that we're confident that it is working well
(17:05:11) dpm: we'd like to let people know about it
(17:05:17) MosquitoOo [n=MaWaLe@ubuntu/member/mawale] a intrat în chat.
(17:05:46) adiroiban: before making the big announcement we still need to define the bug reporting process
(17:06:03) dpm: ok, so we want to focus on bug reporting
(17:06:08) dpm: first
(17:06:45) dpm: we've got https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/ReportingBugs as groundwork
(17:07:00) dpm: but we should discuss other aspects as well
(17:07:10) dpm: like which tags we use and
(17:07:20) dpm: e.g. how do we triage them
(17:07:40) dpm: adiroiban, I think you made some suggestions on the agenda page
(17:07:44) adiroiban: yep. I tryind to experiment with various practice in handling bugs
(17:07:51) adiroiban: tried
(17:08:33) adiroiban: one suggestion was not to mark „also affect this project” for bugs or errors in translations
(17:08:44) adiroiban: „l10n” bugs
(17:08:55) adiroiban: for packages in main
(17:08:55) dpm: yep, I think it's a good idea
(17:09:20) adiroiban: if the package is not in main... then we need support from the developer/package maintainer
(17:09:45) adiroiban: also, I think we can stop using l10n and i18n tags
(17:09:59) adiroiban: or make them optional
(17:10:14) adiroiban: with the new Ubuntu Translation project
(17:10:15) davmor2 [n=davmor2@94-171-216-200.cable.ubr15.wolv.blueyonder.co.uk] a intrat în chat.
(17:10:17) dpm: on the first item, yes, then we can add the bug task for the relevant Ubuntu package
(17:10:22) adiroiban: i was not using them
(17:10:55) adiroiban: ok. sorry for not finalizing
(17:10:56) adiroiban: ok
(17:11:10) adiroiban: so back to first issue - project assignation
(17:11:53) adiroiban: if the package is in main, the bug is for Ubuntu Translations only and we can assign the ubuntu-l10n-CC team
(17:12:23) adiroiban: we can suggest/link in the description the string that needs to be fixed
(17:12:29) dpm: I basically agree - we should then define a process for when the package is in universe, etc -> open a bug task for the ubuntu package, one for the upstream project, report it upstream and link the upstream bug to the upstream project
(17:13:11) MaWaLe a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 60 (Operation timed out))
(17:13:24) adiroiban: also agree with bugs in universe :)
(17:13:32) ***happyaron agreed
(17:13:47) zul a ieşit din chat (quit: Remote closed the connection)
(17:13:56) dpm: ok, so we should probably add a section on this to the ReportingBugs page
(17:13:57) zul [n=chuck@199.243.173.154] a intrat în chat.
(17:14:42) dpm: [ACTION] Add section on project assignation to the ReportingBugs page
(17:14:42) MootBot: ACTION received:  Add section on project assignation to the ReportingBugs page
(17:14:56) adiroiban: for the UserDocs (ReportingBugs wiki) i was thinking only to add the info for opening but to Ubuntu Translations
(17:15:18) adiroiban: and create another doc for handling bugs
(17:15:33) DKcross a ieşit din chat (quit: Remote closed the connection)
(17:15:52) adiroiban: I see 2 docs ReportingBugs and HandlingBugs
(17:16:04) adiroiban: ReportingBugs is the general audiance page
(17:16:16) adiroiban: with minimun info on it
(17:16:33) adiroiban: just the required info for users to open a new bug
(17:17:14) itnet7 [n=itnet7@ubuntu/member/itnet7] a intrat în chat.
(17:17:22) adiroiban: I assume that many of Ubuntu users just want to underline an error in the translation
(17:17:32) gotunandan [n=gotunand@117.195.35.103] a intrat în chat.
(17:17:33) adiroiban: no need to explain them about universe / upstream / etc
(17:18:09) dpm: adiroiban, ok, it makes sense to me. Documentation for the general audience should be concise and eays to read
(17:18:22) adiroiban: the HandlingBugs page is useful for Ubuntu translators and for people helping with QA / bug triage
(17:18:36) adiroiban: yep
(17:18:46) adiroiban: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Filing%20translation%20bugs
(17:18:51) happyaron: sounds good
(17:19:12) adiroiban: that is the place were we should put the general audience info
(17:19:42) zul a ieşit din chat (quit: Success)
(17:19:56) zul [n=chuck@199.243.173.154] a intrat în chat.
(17:20:35) dpm: adiroiban, I agree. One thing I'd like to do is to check out with the QA team the wording used in the main page, so that they agree on the text we put there as well
(17:20:52) adiroiban: dpm: I agree
(17:20:58) Lure a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
(17:21:12) dpm: so, let's take this to actions:
(17:21:49) dpm: [AGREED] Separate pages on reporting (general audience) and handling (translations team) bugs
(17:21:49) MootBot: AGREED received:  Separate pages on reporting (general audience) and handling (translations team) bugs
(17:21:50) adiroiban: I have added those info on the ReportingBugs page, just to have some information while we discuss the final version
(17:21:57) dpm: great
(17:22:34) dpm: [ACTION] Contact the QA team to review the text on the main community/ReportingBugs page
(17:22:35) MootBot: ACTION received:  Contact the QA team to review the text on the main community/ReportingBugs page
(17:23:07) dpm: I can take care of that one ^
(17:23:43) dpm: ok, what I think we need to discuss as well
(17:23:54) dpm: is tags, as Adi was mentioning
(17:24:08) dpm: and Triaging (priorities and assignment)
(17:24:30) dpm: these would be good candidates for sections on the the HandlingBugs page
(17:24:34) Lure [n=quassel@ubuntu/member/lure] a intrat în chat.
(17:25:01) adiroiban: yep
(17:25:12) dpm: Let's go on with tags, then
(17:25:35) reid02 [n=reid85@CPE001cdf73661f-CM001ceacec55e.cpe.net.cable.rogers.com] a intrat în chat.
(17:25:40) dpm: adiroiban, you were saying that the l10n and i18n tags might not be useful?
(17:25:55) adiroiban: just a general note: before seting the final version, maybe we should gain a little more experience with working with bugs.
(17:26:01) DKcross [n=dk@ubuntu/member/dkcross] a intrat în chat.
(17:26:10) adiroiban: I don't find them useful
(17:27:08) adiroiban: all i18n bugs would be marked as also affecting a project
(17:27:12) dpm: yeah, good point. I think we'll learn as we go along. And since the HandlingBugs page content is basically still for the translations team use only, I think we can be flexible
(17:27:17) adiroiban: an l10n would only affect Ubuntu Translations
(17:27:42) dpm: (my comment^ was for the point on bug handling experience)
(17:28:19) adiroiban: right now this is my only comment for bugs... but maybe while working with Ubuntu Translations bugs
(17:28:32) adiroiban: I will discover some good usage for tags :)
(17:28:51) dpm: but do the i18n tags really bring any disadvantage? It's easy to add them, and I find them useful for filtering
(17:28:57) happyaron: I wonder if we need to track bugs for cjk fonts, for example
(17:29:06) adiroiban: I was thinking at using a „need-lang-pack” update for bugs l10n in Hardy , Intrepid
(17:29:14) adiroiban: and other lang-packs that need manual updates
(17:29:14) dpm: and getting an overview of what bugs are technical and which ones are translation only
(17:31:03) dpm: what about creating a wiki page for everyone's proposal's on tags? We can add which tags we think could be useful and discuss anv even vote them
(17:31:13) adiroiban: yep
(17:31:18) happyaron: +1
(17:31:27) dpm: the person proposing a tag should reason why they'd like to see that tag used
(17:31:36) dpm: and why they think it'd be helpful
(17:31:46) adiroiban: i agree
(17:32:16) dpm: ok, I think this could apply as well for triaging and assigning priorities
(17:32:34) dpm: i.e. we could create a HandlingBugsBrainstorm page or similar
(17:32:50) dpm: with the points that need discussion
(17:32:53) adiroiban: or just HandlingBugs
(17:33:02) adiroiban: and create a braistorm section 
(17:33:14) dpm: yeah, that'd work as well
(17:33:40) dpm: ok, I think we all agree on that, don't we?
(17:33:52) happyaron: agree
(17:33:59) adiroiban: yep
(17:34:13) dpm: is there anything particular you'd like to point out or discuss on triaging or priorities at this point?
(17:34:25) dpm: I think that might need a longer discussion
(17:34:38) dpm: at least the "how do we assign priorities" part
(17:34:59) adiroiban: we should talk that after gaining some experience
(17:35:02) dpm: but if there's anything you'd like to comment now
(17:35:02) dpm: feel free
(17:35:17) adiroiban: I'm still trying to look over all new bugs and triage them
(17:35:30) dpm: ok, we'll just add a section and add content as we go along
(17:35:36) dpm: so
(17:35:53) adiroiban: after that I plan to look at how we solve them :p
(17:36:46) dpm: [AGREED] Add a brainstorm section to the HandlingBugs page, including: a tags section with proposals on which tags might be useful, a Triaging section with the agreed practices on triaging and assignments
(17:36:47) MootBot: AGREED received:  Add a brainstorm section to the HandlingBugs page, including: a tags section with proposals on which tags might be useful, a Triaging section with the agreed practices on triaging and assignments
(17:37:31) dpm: ok, is there anything else you'd like to discuss on that point? Or shall we go to the next topic?
(17:38:11) adiroiban: we can go to the next topic
(17:38:22) dpm: [TOPIC] Ubuntu Translations Announcements
(17:38:22) MootBot: New Topic:  Ubuntu Translations Announcements
(17:38:40) dpm: adiroiban, all yours :)
(17:38:43) adiroiban: :)
(17:39:02) adiroiban: the ideas is to write an announcement one
(17:39:12) adiroiban: and let it spread over multiple communication channels
(17:39:30) adiroiban: I saw David was using the LP announcement 
(17:39:50) adiroiban: but I don't know how many people are reading / receiving them
(17:40:23) adiroiban: I just wanted a brainstorming session
(17:40:33) dpm: it sounds like a brilliant idea to me :) Do you have any ideas for the implementation?
(17:40:42) adiroiban: about how we can spread the word about Ubuntu Translations actions
(17:41:06) adiroiban: right now, we send an email to ubuntu-translators ML
(17:41:15) adiroiban: but I don't know if from there
(17:41:23) adiroiban: it will also reach the ML for each team
(17:41:29) happyaron: planet will be good
(17:41:39) adiroiban: so maybe planet-ubuntu is a first step
(17:41:47) dpm: one easy way to reach the planet is the Fridge
(17:41:55) adiroiban: in letting translators know about various actions
(17:42:22) adiroiban: dpm: we can just add the Ubuntu Translations Announcement RSS via to planet-ubuntu
(17:42:34) adiroiban: dpm: we can just add the Ubuntu Translations Announcement RSS direclty to planet-ubuntu
(17:43:19) dpm: that's a good point
(17:43:47) dpm: I'd only have to have a look at how to do it :)
(17:43:47) adiroiban: I don't know to much about how fridge works
(17:43:52) dpm: but seems doable
(17:44:05) rustic_ [n=quassel@188.18.189.129] a intrat în chat.
(17:44:08) adiroiban: dpm: all ubuntu member have access to planet.ubuntu.com config file
(17:44:27) gotunandan a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
(17:44:30) adiroiban: and RSS url is http://feeds.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/announcements.atom
(17:44:32) dpm: adiroiban, I know, but the ubuntu-translations project is not exactly a member :)
(17:44:53) adiroiban: then we can look at the fridge :)
(17:44:55) brianchidester a ieşit din chat (quit: Remote closed the connection)
(17:45:10) dpm: I'd have to ask around on what permissions and checks are made to feeds added to the config file
(17:45:23) adiroiban: but debian package of the day
(17:45:25) adiroiban: is not a member
(17:45:50) adiroiban: same for Kubuntu feeds
(17:46:09) dpm: adiroiban, I also think it's doable, I just would have to ask. I don't know right now if it's just a matter of adding the feed
(17:46:17) Lure a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
(17:46:29) adiroiban: ok
(17:46:35) adiroiban: in planet.ubuntu.com
(17:46:48) dpm: Anyway, just as additional info re: the Fridge, the news team publishes
(17:46:49) adiroiban: we have a lot of announcement feeds from other Ubuntu teams
(17:47:12) dpm: news people send to them
(17:47:14) adiroiban: server / studio / screencast  / packaging / qa
(17:47:23) nigel_nb [n=nigel_nb@unaffiliated/nigel-nb/x-7857692] a intrat în chat.
(17:47:57) adiroiban: ok
(17:48:33) dpm: yes, this could be of course expanded. The RSS announcements from ubuntu-translations can only contain text
(17:49:07) davmor2 a ieşit din chat (quit: Remote closed the connection)
(17:49:08) dpm: if we were to use a blog for the whole translations team or the Fridge, we could also post pictures and other content
(17:49:36) adiroiban: I would start with small steps :)
(17:49:45) adiroiban: and see the feedback
(17:49:53) Lure [n=quassel@ubuntu/member/lure] a intrat în chat.
(17:50:05) dpm: adiroiban, yeah, yeah :) I was just mentioning it
(17:50:10) adiroiban: :p
(17:50:18) DKcross a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 113 (No route to host))
(17:50:27) adiroiban: but if there is a nice integration between a blog and LP teams
(17:50:49) dpm: I think there isn't, but I'd have to check
(17:50:51) adiroiban: we can use it :)
(17:50:58) dpm: yep
(17:51:08) adiroiban: we can look at Ubuntu server blog
(17:51:17) jpds a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
(17:51:19) mac_v a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
(17:51:29) adiroiban: and see how they manage it
(17:51:30) adiroiban: ok
(17:51:52) jpds [n=jpds@ubuntu/member/jpds] a intrat în chat.
(17:52:06) brianchidester [n=brianchi@nat/canonical/x-d89cd5a84daaa442] a intrat în chat.
(17:52:08) dpm: adiroiban, that would make for a good topic on the translations roundtable on UDS
(17:52:26) adiroiban: :) if you say so :)
(17:52:42) dpm: sure
(17:53:12) adiroiban: I just want to make sure translators are aware of Ubuntu Translations annoucement
(17:53:22) adiroiban: like the ubiquity string freeze
(17:53:37) adiroiban: those are important announcements
(17:53:38) dpm: anyway, for now I can look at adding the rss feed to p.u.c or directly publish the announcements on the Fridge
(17:53:41) davmor2 [n=davmor2@94-171-216-200.cable.ubr15.wolv.blueyonder.co.uk] a intrat în chat.
(17:54:19) dpm: [ACTION] David to look at adding the ubuntu-translations rss feed to p.u.c or directly publish the announcements on the Fridge
(17:54:20) MootBot: ACTION received:  David to look at adding the ubuntu-translations rss feed to p.u.c or directly publish the announcements on the Fridge
(17:54:25) adiroiban: ok. If we agree to post announcment is a single place
(17:55:07) nizarus [n=nizarus@ubuntu/member/nizarus] a intrat în chat.
(17:55:08) adiroiban: the next step would be to add the feed in a public place
(17:55:13) adiroiban: ok
(17:55:15) dpm: adiroiban, I agree, but I still cannot see how this can be technically implemented
(17:55:30) adiroiban: why ?
(17:55:31) adiroiban: :p
(17:55:38) adiroiban: or where do you see the problem
(17:55:38) adiroiban: ?
(17:56:19) dpm: which application would you use to write the announcement once and get it automatically published to the ML and p.u.c?
(17:56:29) adiroiban: Launchpad
(17:56:56) adiroiban: https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+announce
(17:57:29) dpm: adiroiban, which current LP feature would you use for that? AFAIK, we cannot automatically publish announcements there to the ML
(17:57:50) adiroiban: as I workaround I will write a script for that
(17:58:06) dpm: adiroiban, that was my question
(17:58:35) adiroiban: and look into LP announcement code to also queue a message via email
(17:58:48) adiroiban: ok
(17:59:12) dpm: adiroiban, ok, but I think for now
(17:59:32) dpm: it's just as easy as a woraround until such script is implemented, to:
(17:59:45) dpm: 1) write the announcement on u-t
(18:00:09) dpm: 2) copy the text and send an e-mail to the ML
(18:00:12) adiroiban: yep
(18:00:13) adiroiban: :)
(18:00:43) dpm: A big improvement would be to additionally add the u-t feed to p.u.c
(18:00:56) dpm: and I think that's something we could already look into
(18:01:16) dpm: if it's as easy as adding the feed to the planet's config file
(18:02:02) adiroiban: regarding planet.ubuntu.com, maybe we can ask for feedback from community-council
(18:02:14) adiroiban: or you can ask your team for feedback :p
(18:02:34) dpm: heh, yes, I can do that :)
(18:03:28) dpm: [ACTION] David to talk to the Community team about translation feeds on p.u.c
(18:03:29) MootBot: ACTION received:  David to talk to the Community team about translation feeds on p.u.c
(18:04:46) dpm: ok, unless there are any other comments, let's have one last topic quickly, we're over time, but I think it is an interesting one
(18:04:52) dpm: what do you say?
(18:05:15) adiroiban:  :)
(18:05:20) adiroiban: we can continue
(18:05:34) happyaron: ok
(18:05:42) adiroiban: uh... task ... that is one useful tag :)
(18:05:57) dpm: [TOPIC] Current Translations tasks
(18:05:57) MootBot: New Topic:  Current Translations tasks
(18:06:10) adiroiban: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bugs?field.tag=task
(18:06:11) gotunandan [n=gotunand@117.195.40.157] a intrat în chat.
(18:06:26) cawanpink a ieşit din chat (quit: Client Quit)
(18:06:55) adiroiban: regarding kdelibs and other kde problems , I think we will talk at UDS
(18:07:33) dpm: ok, let me add an action to remind us of that
(18:07:44) adiroiban: same with APT. I think I will be in the same plane with mvo
(18:07:58) adiroiban: and I will talk about apt / synaptic upstream translations
(18:08:00) dpm: [ACTION] David to add kdelibs task to the Kubuntu UDS session
(18:08:00) MootBot: ACTION received:  David to add kdelibs task to the Kubuntu UDS session
(18:08:26) dpm: adiroiban, synaptic's upstream is now Ubuntu AFAIK
(18:08:37) dpm: mvo is the maintainer
(18:08:50) dpm: apt is still probably Debian
(18:08:50) adiroiban: yep. so debian is not using synaptic ?
(18:09:18) adiroiban: I don't know if mvo is exporting the LP translations into the synaptic source package
(18:09:21) happyaron: adiroiban: AFAIK, yes, it is using
(18:10:14) adiroiban: https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/synaptic
(18:10:20) dpm: adiroiban, we'd have to ask him if he's doing that, but we can just as well look at the bzr branch commits
(18:10:47) adiroiban: better to look into commints
(18:10:48) mvo: dpm, adiroiban: I'm not importing them automatically currently, I do import them if someone asks me
(18:10:49) adiroiban: commits
(18:10:59) adiroiban: :)
(18:11:00) dpm: there you go :)
(18:11:09) mvo: we should have a quick chat about it at the plane and/or uds :)
(18:11:19) dpm: cool
(18:11:36) Lure a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
(18:12:00) mvo: I'm fine with moving synaptic to LP, apt is a bit different, debian is heavily involved in the translations there
(18:12:21) mvo: but I got some questions myself, so uds is a good opportunity to discuss that :)
(18:12:29) adiroiban: yep
(18:12:35) adiroiban: no hurry
‏‪(18:12:56)‬‏‬ ‪adiroiban‬‏‬: ‫‏‎next task bug 39581
(18:12:59) ubottu: Launchpad bug 39581 in linux-source-2.6.15 "SoundBlaster Live! 24-bit recognized as SB AudigyLS" [Low,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/39581
(18:13:11) adiroiban: hm...
(18:13:12) adiroiban: :)
(18:13:14) dpm: :)
(18:13:22) adiroiban: https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bug/395812
(18:13:25) ubottu: Ubuntu bug 395812 in ubuntu-translations "Change Ubuntu translations policy from Structured to Restricted" [High,In progress]
(18:13:35) dpm: ok, on the next task on the list, I've finally managed to contact the TB
(18:13:55) dpm: regarding this, and I've created a page with all relevant information:
(18:14:07) dpm: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators/OngoingProjects/SwitchToRestricted
(18:14:50) adiroiban: ok
(18:15:01) happyaron: a question, if we turn to restricted, can people aren't in the respective translation teams make suggestions as well?
(18:15:12) Lure [n=quassel@ubuntu/member/lure] a intrat în chat.
happyaron hassanakevazir 
(18:15:30) dpm: happyaron, that will only affect languages without a team assigned in the ubuntu-translators group
(18:15:32) adiroiban: happyaron: everyone can make suggestions
(18:15:49) happyaron: oh, I see, thanks
(18:16:38) dpm: I'm sorry it's taking that long because it's been blocking on me, but I'll make sure it moves forward
(18:16:54) adiroiban: ok
(18:16:55) adiroiban: np
(18:17:23) adiroiban: we have already talked about https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bug/455966
(18:17:29) ubottu: Ubuntu bug 455966 in ubuntu-translations "Ubuntu translations bug reporting process " [High,In progress]
(18:17:37) dpm: ok
(18:17:39) adiroiban: next would be https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+bug/395811
(18:17:41) ubottu: Ubuntu bug 395811 in ubuntu-translations "Improve templates priority assignment" [Medium,In progress]
(18:18:18) nigel_nb a ieşit din chat (quit: Client Quit)
(18:18:45) dpm: I haven't scheduled an extra session on that, but I think we could talk about this at UDS as well, and actually perhaps even bump the importance to High
(18:19:32) adiroiban: the feedback is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/TemplatesPriority
(18:19:55) adiroiban: I think I will have to clean / format
(18:19:56) adiroiban: the wiki page
(18:20:08) adiroiban: and then set the priorities
(18:20:24) RainCT [n=RainCT@ubuntu/member/rainct] a intrat în chat.
(18:21:11) dpm: adiroiban, yes, I know the page from the previous discussions. At the moment you are the only one working on that, and I think UDS will be a good chance to get together and get more people involved
(18:21:16) mac_v [n=mac_V@unaffiliated/macvre] a intrat în chat.
(18:21:17) dpm: in helping on that
(18:21:39) adiroiban: ok
(18:22:38) dpm: Anyway, I propose leaving the Wishlist items for a future discussion and end the meeting unless there are other comments or final points to discuss
(18:22:43) ogra [n=ogra@ubuntu/member/ogra] a intrat în chat.
(18:22:50) Lure a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
(18:22:56) adiroiban: yep
(18:23:03) adiroiban: the new locale definitions are ok
(18:23:26) adiroiban: for Chuvash I'm working with upstream developer to include it in glibc
(18:23:27) happyaron: I think we can have a page on how to create new locale
(18:23:53) happyaron: since I only have seen adiroiban working on that, and feel helpless myself
(18:23:57) adiroiban: yep. I just wait to get more experience in working with locales
(18:24:07) rustic_: hello, what do you think of Project Timelord? particularly, it states: the Launchpad Translations system is counter-productive to achieving the goal of a localized, human KDE experience"
(18:24:07) adiroiban: and then I will try to write a wikipage / FAQ
(18:24:24) happyaron: adiroiban: good, :)
RainCT randa reid02 rgreening Riddell rustic_ 
RainCT randa reid02 rgreening Riddell rustic_ 
(18:24:30) dpm: happyaron, we've got https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/AddingNewLanguage, perhaps adiroiban can add more info on the experience he's gained on defining locales
(18:24:46) adiroiban: rustic_: I think we can talk about that in #ubuntu-translators 
(18:24:57) adiroiban: I don't know anything about that project
(18:25:00) rustic_: okay
(18:25:16) adiroiban: and no aware of any discussion on ubuntu-translators mailing lists
(18:25:23) dpm: rustic_, for the record, here are my thoughts -> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kubuntu-devel/2009-November/003481.html
(18:25:38) adiroiban: dpm: rustic_ do we have a link to the project ?
(18:25:53) happyaron: adiroiban: kubuntu.org announcement
(18:25:57) dpm: adiroiban, I CC'd ubuntu-translators, did you not get the e-mail?
(18:26:00) adiroiban: but that is vague
(18:26:12) adiroiban: dpm: I got that email
(18:26:21) happyaron: adiroiban: there is a detailed PDF you can read
(18:26:30) adiroiban: but I don't know how to put those info into context
(18:26:35) dpm: anyway, let's finish the meeting and move this discussion to #ubuntu-translators
(18:26:40) adiroiban: ok
(18:26:43) happyaron: ok
(18:26:49) dpm: Thank you everyone for your participation
(18:26:55) sbc a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
(18:26:56) gotunandan a ieşit din chat (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
(18:27:00) dpm: and see you on the next one! :)
(18:27:02) adiroiban: rustic_: please join #ubuntu-tranlators 
(18:27:05) adiroiban: yep
(18:27:05) dpm: #endmeeting
(18:27:06) MootBot: Meeting finished at 10:27.
</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
