{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===

* '''Review of actions from previous meeting''' (DavidPlanella)
** [ACTION] Contact the QA team to check out the wording and the procedure description for reporting translation bugs (dpm)
** [ACTION] Create a HandlingBugs wiki page (adiroiban)
** [ACTION] Investigate how adding the Ubuntu Translations project RSS feed to Planet Ubuntu can be done - just adding the feed to the planet's config file? (dpm)
* '''Review of pending actions on the switch to restricted permission policy''' (DavidPlanella)
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators/OngoingProjects/SwitchToRestricted#Actions
** [ACTION] Discuss what to do with existing translations of languages without a team - the suggestion is to revert them to packaged and demote them to suggestions (dpm)
** [ACTION] Let the Launchpad Translations team know about the decision and work with them to put it in place (dpm)
** [ACTION] Draft a policy on how teams can be added to the ubuntu-translators group. Provide relevant links in Launchpad to this document (dpm)
* '''UDS Summary''' (DavidPlanella)

=== Attendees ===
* Attende``Wiki``Page (attendeeircnick)
* ...

=== Summary ===

==== Agenda item 1 ====

==== Agenda item 2 ====

...

=== Log ===

<pre>
[16:03] <dpm> right, second try, this time at the right time
[16:03] <dpm> hi all
[16:03] <popey> :)
[16:04] <dpm> let's see if we've got any translations people here today
[16:06] <janpogocki> hello :)
[16:06] <janpogocki> i translated ubuntu 9.04 and 9.10, but very little
[16:07] <dpm> hi janpogocki
[16:07] <janpogocki> to polish of course ;)
[16:07] <dpm> welcome
[16:07] <adiroiban> sorry. I'm late
[16:08] <dpm> no worries adiroiban, we don't seem to have many l10n folks today
[16:08] <adiroiban> maybe we can have the meetings on #ubuntu-translators
[16:09] <dpm> I'm not sure this would change things, though
[16:09] <janpogocki> but what about is this meeting 'ubuntu translations'?
[16:09] <adiroiban> :)
[16:09] <dpm> anyway, shall we get started?
[16:09] <adiroiban> i'm ready
[16:09] <janpogocki> ok
[16:10] <dpm> janpogocki, the Ubuntu translations team has monthly meetings -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/Meetings
[16:10] <dpm> janpogocki, here's the agenda for today -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/Meetings/2009-12-03
[16:10] <janpogocki> ok, i'm going to reading that (or I gonna ;)
[16:10] <dpm> anyway, let's get started :)
[16:11] <dpm> #startmeeting
[16:11] <MootBot> Meeting started at 10:11. The chair is dpm.
[16:11] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[16:11] <dpm> [TOPIC] Review of actions from previous meeting
[16:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review of actions from previous meeting
[16:12] <janpogocki> i wasn't month ago :(
[16:12] <dpm> basically we'd like to see how are we doing in terms of the actions we talked about on the previous meeting
[16:12] <dpm> janpogocki, don't worry
[16:13] <dpm> :-)
[16:13] <dpm> Contact the QA team to check out the wording and the procedure description for reporting translation bugs (dpm)
[16:14] <dpm> I did contact the QA team, but I haven't received much feedback on that section. Today I was talking to some of them on #ubuntu-bugs, and I've changed some things
[16:14] <dpm> after their comments
[16:15] <dpm> but it basically is the content adiroiban already put in there -> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Filing%20translation%20bugs
[16:15] <adiroiban> ok. I think we can fix the text on the go
[16:15] <dpm> So I think we should be good to go there
[16:15] <adiroiban> as we feel the need
[16:16] <dpm> adiroiban, the next action was for you "Create a HandlingBugs wiki page (adiroiban)", and I know you've created that already and done some great work on it
[16:16] <adiroiban> then ... checked :)
[16:16] <dpm> :-)
[16:16] <adiroiban> well I'm not happy with with HandlingBugs
[16:17] <dpm> in which sense?
[16:17] <adiroiban> I still need to do more work on handling bugs and then write some best practices
[16:18] <adiroiban> but we have the page... and we can update it
[16:18] <dpm> adiroiban, yes, I see. But basically I think we are on a good start. We can ask questions at #ubuntu-bugs regarding the workflow and practices
[16:18] <dpm> today being Translations Hug Day
[16:20] <dpm> anyway, the next action was on me: "Investigate how adding the Ubuntu Translations project RSS feed to Planet Ubuntu can be done - just adding the feed to the planet's config file?"
[16:20] <adiroiban> ok. we can continue with the next topic
[16:20] <dpm> I haven't had the chance to look into that yet
[16:20] <dpm> but I'll try to do it this week
[16:20] <adiroiban> np
[16:21] <dpm> ok, next, then...
[16:21] <dpm> [TOPIC] Review of pending actions on the switch to restricted permission policy
[16:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review of pending actions on the switch to restricted permission policy
[16:21] <dpm> Now that the switch to restricted has been done
[16:22] <dpm> I'd like to check all additional steps
[16:22] <dpm> are documented and done
[16:22] <dpm> to announce it
[16:22] <dpm> It's basically https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators/OngoingProjects/SwitchToRestricted#Actions
[16:23] <adiroiban> I tried to improve the way Launchpad inform translators about current permission bug 490929
[16:23] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 490929 in rosetta "Inform users that have not licensed their translations under BSD the reason why the can not translate specific templates" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/490929
[16:23] <adiroiban> this can help in explaining translators why they can not translate in languages without a translation team
[16:24] <dpm> adiroiban, oh I see, you mean we could reuse your explanation for that
[16:24] <adiroiban> nope.
[16:25] <adiroiban> just that those changes can help if someone is "lost in translation" and don't know why they can no longer tranlate into their language
[16:26] <dpm> I see - so implementing that feature would also help informing translators without a team in ubuntu-translators
[16:26] <adiroiban> that's what I hope :)
[16:26] <dpm> :-)
[16:27] <janpogocki> but i was translating ubuntu without any team, so where's problem?
[16:27] <dpm> adiroiban, do you want to add a comment regarding this under "Discuss what to do with existing translations of languages without a team."?
[16:28] <dpm> janpogocki, that's not a problem at all
[16:28] <janpogocki> so what?
[16:28] <dpm> only that if you are not a member of a team you can provide suggestions
[16:28] <dpm> and translation team members will then accept them
[16:28] <janpogocki> aha, i remeber
[16:28] <dpm> what we are discussing right now is a recent change in policy
[16:29] <janpogocki> tomasz dominikowski accepted my suggestions
=== ebel_ is now known as ebel
[16:29] <adiroiban> dpm: don't know what to say :(
[16:30] <dpm> where previously some translators without a registered team for their language
[16:30] <dpm> col
[16:30] <dpm> could add translations directly
[16:30] <adiroiban> first, I would like to see a list of languages ... and how many new translations we have for each language in Ubuntu
[16:31] <dpm> janpogocki, this doesn't affect Polish, which has already a registered team
[16:31] <adiroiban> if there are many new translations for a langauge... maybe we would like to find a team, before changing all of them to suggestions
[16:32] <adiroiban> we still have ubuntu-l10n teams with open permissions....
[16:32] <janpogocki> it's about for example afrikaans? ;)
[16:32] <adiroiban> and for me this is like not having a reviewer team at all
[16:33] <janpogocki> and other languages which hasn't got teams?
[16:33] <dpm> adiroiban, yeah, but open teams are a separate issue. We can concentrate on those when doing the work on policies in this cycle, for example
[16:34] <dpm> But I like your suggestions on the steps of 1) finding out these languages
[16:34] <adiroiban> dpm: i will leave those translations by now
[16:35] <dpm> 2) assigning them to a team if it exists
[16:35] <adiroiban> dpm: i can investigate on that... or ask one of rosetta admins to run a query on the db
[16:35] <adiroiban> and provide us with a raw data
[16:35] <adiroiban> and from that I can extract what we need
[16:36] <adiroiban> dpm: one idea (just an idea) would be to create those teams
[16:36] <dpm> adiroiban, do you want me to put an action for you on that? I can have a look into it as well
[16:36] <dpm> (on investigating the languages)
[16:37] <adiroiban> dpm: anything is ok :)
[16:37] <adiroiban> don't know
[16:37] <adiroiban> do as you think it is best
[16:38] <adiroiban> add me on that task
[16:38] <dpm> ok, thanks adiroiban
[16:38] <adiroiban> I will create the query and then just ask rosetta admin to run on the ubuntu data
[16:39] <dpm> [ACTION] Investigate on the teams affected by the switch to restricted (adiroiban)
[16:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Investigate on the teams affected by the switch to restricted (adiroiban)
[16:40] <dpm> I think for now I'll announce the change first
[16:41] <dpm> so looking at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators/OngoingProjects/SwitchToRestricted#Actions
[16:41] <adiroiban> yes. just make sure the annoucement contains a note about contacting utc for addind missing teams
[16:41] <dpm> I'll do, thanks for the pointer
[16:42] <dpm> the next two pending items "Discuss what to do with existing translations of languages without a team. "
[16:42] <dpm> and "Let the Launchpad Translations team know about the decision and work with them to put it in place. "
[16:42] <dpm> we'll be discussing
[16:43] <dpm> as a result of your investigation
[16:43] <dpm> and the last one "Draft a ?policy on how teams can be added to the ubuntu-translators group. Provide relevant links in Launchpad to this document. "
[16:43] <dpm> I will take care of while working on the set of Ubuntu Translators policies
[16:44] <adiroiban> https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations/+faq/611
[16:44] <adiroiban> ?
[16:44] <adiroiban> just a not
[16:44] <adiroiban> note
[16:44] <adiroiban> to update ... or delete that FAQ when the policy is in place
[16:45] <dpm> good point, thanks
[16:45] <adiroiban> ...and maybe other related faqs
[16:45] <dpm> I think the FAQs we can keep
[16:45] <dpm> it's just that if they refer to a policy
[16:46] <dpm> we should include a link to the policy inside the FAQ
[16:47] <dpm> anyway, was there anything else on this topic?
[16:49] <adiroiban> hm.
[16:49] <adiroiban> if you have time please look at bug 490929
[16:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 490929 in rosetta "Inform users that have not licensed their translations under BSD the reason why the can not translate specific templates" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/490929
[16:49] <adiroiban> and see if the wording / explanations are ok
[16:50] <dpm> ok, I'll do that and give you some feedback
[16:50] <dpm> I'm not sure I'll get on to it today, but tomorrow should be fine
[16:51] <dpm> If that was all, I'll go quickly through the next topic
[16:51] <adiroiban> dpm: no hurry... those changes will be merged only strating from monday
[16:51] <adiroiban> yep
[16:52] <dpm> as the idea was to provide a summary on the translations discussion UDS for those folks interested but who couldn't attend
[16:53] <dpm> but as it seems that all participants in this meeting were there, we can simply go quickly through it :)
[16:53] <adiroiban> maybe you can send an email
[16:53] <adiroiban> ... but with low priority
[16:53] <adiroiban> :)
[16:54] <dpm> yeah :-)
[16:54] <dpm> anyway, I started a page collecting all the actions and session notes at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/Events/UDS/Lucid
[16:54] <adiroiban> i like that wikipage listing all UDS actions
[16:54] <dpm> great, I'm glad of that :)
[16:54] <adiroiban> i think we should link it from the header
[16:55] <adiroiban> it should be a busy page for us durring this cycle ;)
[16:55] <dpm> oh yeah ;)
[16:56] <dpm> My intention was to provide a summary of all sessions as well, but depending on time, I might just leave the session notes as they are and concentrate on the blueprints and specs
[16:56] <adiroiban> i saw you are also updating the whiteboard of blueprints ... but it looks to my like redundant
[16:56] <adiroiban> it i preffer keeping it on wiki
[16:56] <adiroiban> by linking the blueprints to this wikipage
[16:57] <dpm> yeah, I see some redundancy as well, but this cycle we are going to focus on blueprints and burn-down charts to track progress
[16:57] <adiroiban> on wiki we have these nice "checked" icons :)
[16:58] <adiroiban> I was thinking that it would be nice to have a page with all outstanding actions
[16:58] <dpm> and makes one feel good when using them and ticking things off the list :-)
[16:58] <adiroiban> not only with UDS...
[16:59] <adiroiban> right now we have actions on bugtracker (task tag), in wiki and on blueprints
[16:59] <dpm> I started doing that with the UTC team outstanding tasks -> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTranslationsCoordinators#Ongoing%20projects
[17:01] <adiroiban> hm... so many pages
[17:01] <dpm> On Lucid, though, I'd like to concentrate on the specs from UDS and we'll also be using the charts to track progress -> http://piware.de/workitems/community/lucid/report.html
[17:02] <dpm> yeah, that should be a good topic for discussion on the ML or on the next meeting - decide on the way to track tasks
[17:02] <dpm> but for today I think we should leave it here
[17:02] <adiroiban> ok
[17:02] <dpm> or was there anything else?
[17:04] <dpm> ok, so I think we can leave it here. As usual, thanks a lot adiroiban for your participation, and also to those listening :)

</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
