{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Exporting POFile attributes ==

'''GOAL'''
* Define a statistics interface for POFile

'''OUTSTANDING ISSUES'''
* No real-time shared stats
** Due to message sharing, stats (last_updated, last_translator, untranslated, etc...) not updated in real time
** A week delay for shared translations (see <nowiki>[[Bug:373269]]</nowiki>)
** ''This is not a blocker for defining the API interface'', but this should be clearly stated in the API docs for the exposed methods and attributes.

'''IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY'''
* <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~adiroiban/launchpad/bug-583934/+merge/26965|Preliminary merge proposal]]</nowiki>
* According to Adi, `IRosettaStats` is not suitable for API export: the method that returns statistics takes a language as argument.
** ''Proposal'': `IPOTemplate` to not implement `IRosettaStats` and remove the language parameter from all IRosettaStats methods.
** ''Question'': is something that should be solved before continuing with the API work?
* Created a new `ITranslationStatistics` interface to move things forward and not to block on `IRosettaStats` changes.
** ''Question'': LP devs, happy with this approach?
* Exposed attributes
** `translation_message_changed_count`
** `translation_message_new_count`
** "changed count", "new count" on an Ubuntu POFile:
*** will work pretty much how they did
*** difference: they will compare current messages in Ubuntu with shared messages upstream
** "changed count", "new count" on a project POFile:
*** can be counted comparing them to Ubuntu
** Is this a blocker for defining the interface at this point?
** If so, should we postpone this work, and until when?
** `translation_message_translated_count`
** length - translated does not always equal untranslated. 
** We should count translation credits and outer automatic translations as "translated messages"
** `translation_message_total_count`
** `translation_message_unreviewed_count`
** These seem to be safe to export like this

'''NEXT STEPS'''

----
CategoryTranslations
