{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Session Notes ==

<pre>
=== Testing for translations ===

* We currently do no have translations tests for ISO testing.
* This is specially important while testing the DVD, where the language support
   should be complete.
* We think it would be helpful to add some installations tests that include
   translation issues for Lucid to add those kind of cases to the ISO tracker.
* Current installation test cases at:
	http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/
* Suggestion: it would be interesting to have some advice from the testing team
   on:
** Testing/finding out untranslatable strings
** Testing language packs on stable releases
* Encourage non-english speaking developers or advance users to use the
   translated version of Ubuntu 

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/TestingForTranslations

=== Test case proposals ===

* Non-English installation from a LiveCD
** Without Internet connection
*** Are all strings on the installer translated? (to be checked during the
       installation process)
*** Is a notification displayed mentioning that language support is not
       complete? (Only for those languages without language packs in the CD)
** With Internet connection
*** Are all strings on the installer translated? (to be checked during the
       installation process)
*** Is the language pack corresponding to the initial language selection
       automatically downloaded and installed? Check it is listed on
       System > Preferences > Language Support (Ubuntu)
       or K menu > Favorites > System Settings >
       Country/Region and language
*** Do high visible applications appear completely translated? Visually
       inspect them by starting
       and using them.
******* Firefox
******* Nautilus (Ubuntu)
******* GNOME menus (Ubuntu)
******* Dolphin (Kubuntu)
******* Kickoff (Kubuntu)
******* ...

* Non-English installation from a LiveCD, using the "Install Ubuntu" link from
   within the Live session
** Same tests as above

Note: the best languages to use for testing are Spanish, French,
Brazilian Portuguese and Italian, since they are usually very complete
and it's easy to spot untranslatable vs. untranslated strings in them.
We should test other non-Latin languages as well though, perhaps Arabic
as an RTL one with good support and Simplified Chinese.

Timo's recipe for generic non-English "first install" testing in VirtualBox:

1. Disable network support, install non-English Ubuntu without network connection.
* Check through all dialogs in the installer and see there are no non-translated strings
* * If non-translated strings, check ubiquity templates if the string is there - if it is, probably non-issue and will be fixed
* After installation, shutdown virtual machine and re-enable network support
* Start Ubuntu to the desktop and *wait what happens*. Ubuntu should automatically report about missing translations support.
* * 1. Follow the dialog and accept refreshing repositories and install suggested missing support packages. 2. Go again to the language-selector after installation is complete, if it still suggests something it's a bug and should have been already installed during the first run.
* * If no automatic popup appears, file a bug.

2. Enable network support, install non-English Ubuntu with network connected via Network Manager if necessary (for wired network NM connects automatically on the live CD)
* Start Ubuntu to the desktop, it should be translated.
* Go to language-selector, it should optimally not suggest anything since everything should have been fetched during the installation.

(3. Using either installation, look through all the GNOME menus
* No English should be observed in any menu entry. If there is, do something about it. It does require knowledge about whether the bug is in the source package, ie. desktop entry not translatable via Rosetta. If it's translatable, then it's translators' job.)

* The installer should be completed translated no matter the language

* Test weeks start on Mondays before milestone releases (which are on Thursdays)

==== Live CD ====

* Languages included in the CD (Bengali (bn), German (de), English (en), Spanish (es), French
(fr), Portuguese (pt), Xhosa (xh) for Karmic)
** Network connection
*** Full language support should be installed
** No network connection
*** Pop-up on reboot (when installed) saying your language support is not complete 
* Languages not included in the CD
** Network connection - Same thing 
** No network connection
*** Pop-up on reboot (when installed) saying your language support is not complete (but no lang packs has been installed)

* Try Live CD in English and install then in another language (it was broken once)

* Keyboard layout and input method
** CJK IM should be enabled by default
   -> environment variables:
*** GTK_IM_MODULE=ibus
*** QT_IM_MODULE=ibus
*** XMODIFIERS=@im=ibus
** Other languages - depending on layout chosen at install time (probably cannot be tested on the live CD)

* Regional settings
** The settings are in the locale variables
** If we want to fully test this, tha applications using these settings should also be tested (e.g. gnome-panel, calendar)

* Completion of translations for important applications
** A Mago script could be written to test all the menus and see if they are translated

==== Alternate CD ====

==== DVD ====

* Full language support for any language  

=== ACTIONS ===
* Look for packages per language in the Live CD (adi)
* Write the test cases in the testcase wiki (ara)
* David to announce to the translations community to see if anyone comes up with more useful test cases
* Review testcases (David - to communicate to translations team)
* Get a list of packages that should be installed (Arne)
* Check language support on the DVD (Arne)
* Check the language support on the alternate CD (David)

</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
