{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Meeting summary ===

* '''Wine translations in Launchpad''' (`andrejz`)
** Wine developers not using any translation tool. Wine is now using gettext.
** Andrej talked with them, they're open to use any translation tool
** Their concern is traceability of the commits
** Translation commits are automated in Launchpad, but translations can be traced on a per-message basis in the web interface.
** Andrej to follow up with the Wine developers 
 
* '''Calendar feeds''' (DavidPlanella)
** We've got nice feeds for language packs
** Do we want to have an aggregated calendar with all (sub)calendars?
** We need to add the language pack calendar feeds to the main release calendar. However, there isn't a main release calendar
** See the <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/11/25/%23ubuntu-translators.html#t09:04|IRC conversation discussing this topic]]</nowiki> 
* '''Defining policy for i18n SRUs''' (GaborKelemen)
** We should do it on a case by case basis - we cannot aim to SRU them all and we should focus on the most important ones
** We can bring up bugs that we think are important in meetings and then take action to follow up with developers to ensure they are SRU's
* '''How to enforce package rebuilds at NonLanguagePackTranslationDeadline time, and defining the packages to be rebuilt''' (GaborKelemen)
** Gabor's proposal: be proactive and 1) export translations ourselves after the NonLanguagePackDeadline 2) send merge proposals or patches for the relevant packages
** David also thinks it might be a good idea
** Gabor happy to take care of the exports and merge proposals
* '''l10n of images in ubuntu-docs''' (GaborKelemen)

=== Attendees ===

* DavidPlanella
* AndrejZnidarsic
* GaborKelemen
* KennethNielsen

=== Actions ===

* Andrej to follow up with the Winde developers on them using Launchpad for translators.
** Rundown: PO file commits cannot be tracked on a person-by-person basis (translators never use the VCS, only the web interface, and commits are automated). However, translations can easily be tracked even on a message-by-message basis and see who did them in the web interface. No migration to Launchpad is needed apart from setting up a mirror branch (if so desired, to provide more automation). David happy to help with setting up the project in Launchpad.
* Gabor to review the NonLanguagePackTranslationDeadline page, add any missing packages and take care of the exports when the time comes
* David to send an e-mail to the docs team about how to best localize images
* Kenneth to investigate the iCal structure from the language pack calendar feed and report on the next meeting if it's feasible/worth it to split the main feed and merge the resulting feeds into other calendars
** Turned out not to be so difficult, so I was able to make a quick script for it. The code lives in: https://code.launchpad.net/~k-nielsen81/+junk/cal-split

----
CategoryTranslations
