{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''''This page is a template for the language pack update schedule pages. When converting this template into a
regular page, all the names and date markers should be substituted
with the actual names and dates. These places are marked with a '$'.'''''

This page describes the language pack release schedule for
$RELEASE-NAME. Language pack updates are placed in the regular update
repositories according to a fixed schedule, provided they have been
properly <nowiki>[[Translations-LanguagePackUpdatesQA|tested and signed of on]]</nowiki>.

== Language pack testing and updates for $RELEASE-NAME ==

The table below describes the schedule for language pack testing and updating. All language pack release dates are counted as a number of weeks after the release date. The specific placement of these evens on weekdays are adjusted to match with the weekly language pack build schedule, in order to create optimal deadlines. The updates are scheduled to take place 2, 6, 12, 22, 35 and 43 weeks after the initial release. The workflow leading up to the release of language pack updates is the following
* 1 of 2 weeks before the language pack update release, (1 week for the 2 first updates and 2 weeks for the remaining), the newly built language pack is placed in the proposed repository for testing
* The day before language pack update release is the deadline for finishing testing
* On the release date the new language packs are pushed to the regular updates repository

The language pack release schedule is also available as a google calender $LINK and ical-file $LINK.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #FFFFE0;"> '''Date'''
| '''Action'''
|-
| 
| $RELEASE-DATE
| Release of $RELEASE-NAME
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''First language pack update cycle (2 weeks)'''
|-
| <rowspan=3> 1 week cycle
| $RELEASE-DATE+7DAYS
| Proposed lang-pack-update placed in testing PPA, testing begins
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+13DAYS
| Testing deadline
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+14DAYS
| Tested lang-pack-updates are released
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''Third language pack update cycle (6 weeks)'''
|-
| <rowspan=3> 1 week cycle
| $RELEASE-DATE+35DAYS
| Proposed lang-pack-update placed in testing PPA, testing begins
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+41DAYS
| Testing deadline
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+42DAYS
| Tested lang-pack-updates are released
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''Fourth language pack update cycle (12 weeks)'''
|-
| <rowspan=3> 2 week cycle
| $RELEASE-DATE+70DAYS
| Proposed lang-pack-update placed in testing PPA, testing begins
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+83DAYS
| Testing deadline
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+84DAYS
| Tested lang-pack-updates are released
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''Fifth language pack update cycle (22 weeks)'''
|-
| <rowspan=3> 2 week cycle
| $RELEASE-DATE+140DAYS
| Proposed lang-pack-update placed in testing PPA, testing begins
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+153DAYS
| Testing deadline
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+154DAYS
| Tested lang-pack-updates are released
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E47A7A;">'''New version of Ubuntu released (26 weeks)'''
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''Sixth language pack update cycle (35 weeks)'''
|-
| <rowspan=3> 2 week cycle
| $RELEASE-DATE+231DAYS
| Proposed lang-pack-update placed in testing PPA, testing begins
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+244DAYS
| Testing deadline
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+245DAYS
| Tested lang-pack-updates are released
|-
| <style="text-align: left;background-color: #E0E0FF;">'''Sixth language pack update cycle (43 weeks)'''
|-
| <rowspan=3> 2 week cycle
| $RELEASE-DATE+287DAYS
| Proposed lang-pack-update placed in testing PPA, testing begins
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+300DAYS
| Testing deadline
|-
| $RELEASE-DATE+301DAYS
| Tested lang-pack-updates are released
|}

The Schedule above is common for both LTS and non-LTS release.
