{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



The next translations meeting will be on 2012-02-01

=== Agenda ===
* '''Review of last meeting's actions''' (DavidPlanella)
** David to mail Scott Ritchie about using Launchpad Translations for Wine
** Devs not very responsive
** Gabor to add/update information on the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/#Special_translations page about the iso-codes package
** Not much progress yet
** David to follow up with the docs team about localized images
** Not yet done
** David to set the remaining translation priorities in LP
** Not yet done
** David to follow up about dia translations with seb128
** ??? (Didn't catch that in the session TLE)

* '''Upcoming deadlines in the release schedule''' (DavidPlanella)
** PrecisePangolin/ReleaseSchedule
** User Interface Freeze on February 23rd
** David: Are there any bugs we need to iron out before this deadline. Most packages seem ok. String freeze is up, maybe warn the devels.
** Gabor. This one is pretty ugly and should probably be fixed before: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/572919 from update-manager. The bug is related to generating localized html dynamically.
** David and Gabor. Might be complicated to fix properly, leave at low priority and don't make it a priority just yet.

* '''Kubuntu translations after 12.04''' (DavidPlanella)
** Kubuntu packages will be downgraded to universe and will therefore no longer be translatable. Maybe use the new feature to allow translation from universe for these. Could be activated on a per package basis. We should probably ask the KDE translation community what they wish happens to these packages.
** pastebinit is btw going to be one of the first apps that is translatable from universe.

* '''Ubuntu Docs images localization''' (DavidPlanella)

** David will have a bit more time to work on small projects he wishes to. Will probably mean that we will have a test server for the viewer for localized images for the documentation.
** Kenneth explains what this page is for. Hopefully we will have a demo soon

* '''Lucid 10.04.4 language pack updates''' (DavidPlanella)
** Deadline is tomorrow, so no way to reach that deadline. Probably should run once for Lucid.
** For LTS'es we should add point releases lang pack schedule.
** EXTRA: Next 11.04 should be a full one.
** Discussion about whether or not we should have the ability our selves to do the docs exports. Leave as is untill we run into problems.

* '''Precise language pack schedule''' (DavidPlanella)

** We need to work on this. Should not be to problematic, include point releases.

* '''Translations 12.04 blueprints''' (DavidPlanella)

* '''Launchpad code contributions: translations reporting API''' (DavidPlanella) 

* '''A few annoying bugs that were brought up'''
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad/+bug/869824
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad/+bug/504821
** David say they should hopefully see some work soon.

=== Attendees ===

* DavidPlanella
* AndrejZnidarsic
* GaborKelemen
* <nowiki>[[Tle|Kenneth Nielsen]]</nowiki>

=== Actions ===

==== From last week: ====
* Status of launchpad translations for wine translations
** Gabor to add/update information on the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase/#Special_translations page about the iso-codes package
** David to follow up with the docs team about localized images
** David to set the remaining translation priorities in LP
** David to follow up about dia translations with seb128

==== From this time ====

* David write ubuntu devel and remind them that string freeze is up.
* David to at some point ask the community what they wish happens to the kubuntu translations in LP (David)
* Lucid lang pack
** David do the exports for a Lucid lang pack
** Kenneth contact Matthew about the above [DONE]
** Kenneth send out a heads up for Lucid lang pack [DONE]
** Kenneth announce the testing for ^above

* Make it a full update 6'th Natty lang pack update
** Kenneth write Matthew about a documentation export for Natty. [DONE]
** David do the exports and generate the packs when ^above is done
** Kenneth warn people that these may be a little late. [DONE]

* Kenneth make draft for Precise lang pack release schedule

----
CategoryTranslations
