{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu Translation Statistics ==

These statistics represent the percentage of translation coverage in all languages for a given Ubuntu version at release time. As such, they provide an indicator of how well translated Ubuntu in a given language and release is. They are not intended to offer any other additional information such as how good font support or input methods for that language are.

The current method for calculating them is based on:

* A daily <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~dpm/data/ubuntu-l10n|raw export of translation data]]</nowiki> from the Launchpad database as the source data
* Considering only the applications that are included in a default Ubuntu Desktop Edition installation.
* Ignoring the applications that do not provide visible messages to the user. That generally means not considering the translation status of command line applications for the calculation.
* Note that this prioritisation is not done at the string level (i.e. most visible messages), but at the template level (i.e. most visible applications). The current translation infrastructure does not allow for string prioritisation and 100% accurate statistics, but doing it at the application level offers a good compromise.
* A <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-translations-stats|webapp]]</nowiki> to process the data and produce dynamic overview and per-language reports.
* The map is populated with the calculated translation data from Launchpad and country info from geonames.org. In order to create it, only the language with the most speakers for each country is considered.
* The report is updated daily at 12:00 UTC with live translation data from the Launchpad database.

These statistics do not include the following applications:

* Firefox - not translatable in Launchpad
* Thunderbird - not translatable in Launchpad
* Libre``Office - not translatable in Launchpad
* Long package descriptions in the Software Centre - translatable in Launchpad, but managed outside language packs.

More technical details can be found in the <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net//ubuntu-translations-stats/annotate/head%3A/README.md|description of the code]]</nowiki>.

=== Important notes ===

==== LibreOffice, Firefox and Thunderbird translation statistics not included in the final result for Ubuntu 11.10 ====

Due to Libre``Office, Firefox and Thunderbird not being translatable in Launchpad, their translation statistics data was not included in the final calculation. As both are big applications in terms of the amount of translatable messages, this might have had an impact in the translation coverage of some languages in the statistics.

==== LibreOffice translation statistics not included in the final result for Ubuntu 11.04 ====

Due to Libre``Office not being translatable in Launchpad, its translation statistics data was not included in the final calculation. As Libre``Office is a big application in terms of the amount of translatable messages, this might have had an impact in the translation coverage of some languages in the statistics.

==== OpenOffice.org translation statistics not included in the final result for Ubuntu 10.10 ====

Due to Open``Office.org no longer being translatable in Launchpad, its translation statistics data was not included in the final calculation. As Open``Office.org is a big application in terms of the amount of translatable messages, this might have had an impact in the translation coverage of some languages in the statistics.

----
CategoryTranslations
