{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Agenda ===

* '''UDS wrap up and actions''' (DavidPlanella)
* '''Translation dates (i.e. when to open translations, etc.)''' (DavidPlanella)
* '''Templates priority''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
* '''List of annoying translations related launchpad bugs''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
* '''Exporting translations upstream''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
* '''How do we want to do our meetings in the future?''' (DavidPlanella)
* '''Ubuntu docs translations''' (DavidPlanella)

=== Attendees ===

* DavidPlanella (`dpm`)
* AndrejZnidarsic (`andrejz`)
* Gabor Kelemen

<nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/calendar/hosted/canonical.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NzZudWJrMTByNHVlYjM4cjFyZnJnazY1Y29fMjAxMTExMjRUMTcwMDAwWiBkYXZpZC5wbGFuZWxsYUBjYW5vbmljYWwuY29t&tmsrc=david.planella%40canonical.com|Google Calendar event]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

* '''UDS wrap up and actions''' (DavidPlanella)
** Blueprints:
** Translations Portal Relaunch
** Localized ISO growth
** Translations Roundtable (placeholder for recurring actions we do on the cycle)
* '''Translation dates (i.e. when to open translations, etc.)''' (DavidPlanella)
** Agreed to open translations a week after Alpha 1
** Andrej points out that translations in Oneiric haven't been copied over correctly (empty translations on Ubuntu-specific packages), so opening translations is depending on that being fixed.
* '''Universe translations in Launchpad''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
** We should do this in a way that we don't upset upstreams
** Let's pick up 2 upstreams and contact pitti for the next steps on the technical side
** David to talk to mrevell and translators regarding priorities of features.
* '''Templates priority''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
** Set up the priority for about 150 templates already, need to finish off other 50 before opening translations
* '''List of annoying translations related launchpad bugs''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
** Need better communication with developers in getting fixes applied when patches/branches are present
** Idea: Review the list of critical bugs on each call?
** Idea: reach out to the translators mailing list to get more people involved?
* '''Exporting translations upstream''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
** Regarding exports, it would be a good idea to contact upstreams to get them involved, but only when there is work being started on this from the Launchpad side.
* '''How do we want to do our meetings in the future?''' (DavidPlanella)
** Postponed to discussion on the mailing list
* '''Ubuntu docs translations''' (DavidPlanella)
** Postponed, ubuntu-help enabled in Oneiric for now
* '''Promoting UTC work''' (AndrejZnidarsic)
** Write a blog post about genral things done by UTC group and Ubuntu translators
** Follow up with more specific posts about various aspects of UTC work
** Content should be posted on ubuntu translations portal, planet ubuntu in then shared around as much as possible.

==== ACTIONS ====

* [dpm] Add an action on the translations roundtable blueprint for kelemengabor to open Oneiric translations: DONE
* [dpm] Add an action on the translations roundtable blueprint for dpm to set up the translations priorities: DONE
* [dpm] Set up the priorities for the remaining 50 templates
* [dpm] Package ubuntu-l10n-tools in a PPA, so that template priorities in Launchpad can be easily set: DONE
* [andrejz] Pick up two upstreams from the list of proposed Universe upstreams to import into Launchpad Translations: DONE
* [andrejz] Send an e-mail to pitti and CC the translations coordinators list asking about the next steps to enable translations imports for the two selected upstreams: DONE
* [dpm] Contact the two upstreams explaining what we want to do
* [dpm] Talk to mrevell and translators about feature priorities in Launchpad
* [dpm] Talk to the Launchpad developers about the missing translations in Precise (*): DONE
* [kelemengabor] Gather some of the most annoying translation bugs so we can examine them at the next meeting.

(*) <pre>
<jtv> dpm, plan: test the updated scripts today, and if successful, announce partial translations downtime for Monday so we can do a new production run.  After that, opening P translations is your call (depending on the state of the import queue, as usual).
</pre>

----
CategoryTranslations
