{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi, and welcome to the wiki of the head of the austinteam here at wiki.Ubuntu

Thanks Trevor.  When will we have our first Austin, Texas Ubuntu meeting?

-> As for the first meeting how does everyone feel about meeting at Central Market on South Lamar for dinner and ->discussion of team.

Sounds good to me-- Caleb Basinger
Anyone else?

How do we contact you?

-> I can be contacted via phone @ (512)441-0770/AIM-sevenx191/email-twermund@gmail.com

What's your timetable for this?

->I don't really have a timetable for this I just wanted to create it but I couldn't find enough people to start it for ->a long time, so I'm glad to find support

North Austin Kubuntu user very interested. 2007-02-14

South Austinite very interested.

Georgetown ISD employee very interested. 2007-03-29

Paul Terry Walhus 
http://austincast.com/ubuntu

Ray Jones Dale (Lockhart) rdu@dalecomp.com

Another South Austinite very interested.  2007-06-12
Caleb Basinger - ubuntu@basinger.biz

Yet another South Austinite interested. 2007-06-18
Deryk Wen - colorburn@gmail.com

Interested in South Austin. 2007-06-26
Dion Miller - dionnow@gmail.com

I'm interested ( JeremyTeale ) 2007-07-07
210-259-3852

Very interested.  Let's start now! 2007-07-12
North Austin/RR, jjwml@austin.rr.com

South Austinite Interested -- watson@preferit.com  btw why no mailing list yet?

Interested. North Austin/Pf sistemamaster@yahoo.com 

UT student interested. <nowiki>[[Diafygi]]</nowiki> 2007-09-23 diafygi@gmail.com
