{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== IRC Meeting on January 22nd, 2008 ==

=== Where? When? ===

* Location: #ubuntu-us-mi channel on Freenode.  
** Unsure what the previous line meant: Read <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam/IRC|this guide]]</nowiki>.

* Time: 8pm EST

=== Agenda ===
Copy/pasted from email sent out regarding the meeting:

<pre>
Eddie M and I were talking about meeting as a group to discuss the
various happenings of the next year. Specifically, we would like to throw a
LoCo IRC meeting for the various teams in the area (MI, OH, Chicago)
to get together and collaborate. It would be a good idea to be really concentrated
effort to make a showing at conferences and CodeSprints, etc.

Something simple such as organizing a rideshare, or splitting rooms can be a
great help.

We decided (a bit unilaterally) to have this meeting on Tuesday the 22nd at
7pm Central, 8 pm Eastern. The channel location is our channel, #ubuntu-us-mi.
If anyone has anything to suggest, or talk about, feel free to do so.
</pre>

Tell all you know in the midwest to come!  They can bring their ideas on ways we can collaborate better or just see what others think we could do.  The more the merrier.

=== Synopsis ===

Will be done soon-ish.

=== Log ===
* Can be found <nowiki>[[TriLoCo-Midwest/Meetings/20080122log|Here]]</nowiki>
