{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Log of the 2008-01-22 Tri LoCo Meeting ==

Back to <nowiki>[[TriLoCo-Midwest/Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki>.

Back to <nowiki>[[TriLoCo-Midwest]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
20:00 <    greg-g> Welcome all
20:00 <    seisen> to have a good time?
20:00 < soldierbo> lol, no
20:00 <    greg-g> I like the introductions idea, lets go around and at least say where you are from
20:00 <    greg-g> Hi, I'm Greg, residing in Michigan at the moment
20:00              rick_h__ is from michigan and does what greg-g tells him to
20:00 < tnseditor> haha
20:01 < xjdriver6> hehe
20:01 <    greg-g> that's true
20:01              seisen hears a whip cracking
20:01              greg-g pats rick_h__ on the head
20:01              soldierboy is from Lake Milton, Ohio
20:01              posingaspopular is from chicago the official 'head' of the LoCo, but that's really because he's the sexiest in the group. i like cake. yellow cake! hehe
20:01 < picard_pw> I'm Alvin, residing in Dublin, Ohio
20:01 < tnseditor> hahaha
20:02              seisen is from akron, Oh
20:02 <    greg-g> seisen: the seisen from ubuntuforums?
20:02 <    seisen> yep
20:02 <    seisen> why?
20:02 <    greg-g> cool, welcome
20:02 <    greg-g> you post a lot :)
20:02              xjdriver69 is from hinckley il, media outreach/ubuntu-training
20:02 < picard_pw> I'm a student
20:03 <    greg-g> is that everyone?
20:03 <    seisen> picard is a youngin
20:03 < tnseditor> I am from Ohio
20:03              picard_pwns_kirk is a youngin
20:03 <    greg-g> well, the "agenda" is at this page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings/TriLoCo20080122
20:03 < posingasp> xjdriver69 is the loco bouncer/coffee runner. don't listen to him, he's not that big a deal! ;p
20:03 < picard_pw> we covered everyone not idling
20:03 <   wolfger> hey, I'm not idling
20:04              rivalarrival is not idling 
20:04 <   wolfger> I'm scrolling to see what I missed when I was
20:04 <    seisen> we need one of those for the OHio loco any volunteers
20:04              posingaspopular waits around
20:04 <    greg-g> well, go ahead and instroduce yourselves
20:04 < picard_pw> yeah
20:04 <   wolfger> Wolfger, from New Baltimore, MI
20:04 < rivalarri> Hi, I'm dave, and I'm an ubuntuholic
20:04 < tnseditor> hi Phoenix301
20:04 < picard_pw> my mom says I gots until 8:30
20:04 <    greg-g> heh
20:04 <   wolfger> <-- not a youngin
20:04 < rivalarri> Kent Ohio
20:04 < Phoenix30> whew, im here now sorry. Kay. Phoenix 301 from ohio
20:04 < picard_pw> Phoenix301: better be
20:05 <    greg-g> ok, welcome everyone, feel free to hang out here afterwards also to chat
20:05 <    greg-g> again, "agenda" is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Meetings/TriLoCo20080122
20:05 < picard_pw> not much on an agenda...
20:05 <    greg-g> we are just going to talking about ways to have better cross loco team cooperation for events, like conferences
20:05 <  markyb86> Good evening all
20:05 < tnseditor> hi Marky86
20:05 <    greg-g> hello
20:05 <  markyb86> Am I late?
20:05 <    greg-g> nope
20:05 <  rick_h__> Are all of us recognized groups now?
20:05 < tnseditor> yes
20:05 <    greg-g> just started
20:05 < tnseditor> horribly :-p
20:06 <  markyb86> ok sweet
20:06 <    greg-g> rick_h__: I think yes, we were the last of the three to be approved
20:06 <  rick_h__> ok, wasn't sure with Chicago. It'll be easier approaching canonical if we're all offical
20:06 <    greg-g> except for Minnesota, but I dont think anyone from there showed up tonight, they were iffy
20:06 < posingasp> okay well speaking for my LoCo, we like confrences. they are a good place to hang out and meet other people, etc.
20:06 < posingasp> rick_h__: heeh we were only the second LoCo founded ever. ;p
20:06 <    greg-g> I agree with posingaspopular 
20:06 <  rick_h__> Well, there are a few existing confences already. Let's start with those
20:06 < picard_pw> posingaspopular: especially the freebies
20:07 <  rick_h__> 1) Ohio linuxfest ++
20:07 < xjdriver6> like confrences, we are confrence whores!!
20:07 < tnseditor> :-)
20:07 < posingasp> so that's one area im going to focus on this year if possible
20:07 <  rick_h__> 2) Penguicon
20:07 <    seisen> huh??
20:07 <    greg-g> penguicon is coming up!
20:07 <    greg-g> penguicon.org
20:07 < picard_pw> is notacon a Linux one?
20:07 <    greg-g> a lot of ubuntu folk will be there
20:07 <  rick_h__> Pengiucon is MI in april
20:07 < posingasp> chicago: Chicago barcamp and flourish and Pycon are the ones i konw of
20:07 < posingasp> i really want to go to penguincon, can't really afford the ticket atm :|
20:07 < picard_pw> ugh, michigan has got it set
20:07 <   wolfger> I think notacon is.. uh.. not-a-con
20:08 <    greg-g> our (michigan's) page about penguicon: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Projects/Penguicon
20:08 <    seisen> yes im going my aunt doesnt live that far from troy I don't thin
20:08 <    seisen> I am so there
20:08 <    greg-g> it hasn't been updated, but most ideas are on it
20:08 < picard_pw> Randall Munroe, Jono Bacon, Benjamin Mako Hill...
20:08 < posingasp> Rusell Monroe. jono bacon and mako hill. great!
20:08 <    greg-g> and jorge castro
20:08 <    greg-g> as a nifty
20:08 <  rick_h__> Chris Dibona and the other person from Google SOC
20:08              picard_pwns_kirk wishes he could go
20:08 < posingasp> so what resources in general do we have setup for these confrences?
20:08 <    greg-g> for penguicon we have most of what is on that page I linked
20:08 <  rick_h__> well there's setting up booths at events. Ohio guys had a nice setup at OLF
20:09 <    greg-g> oh, speaking of Ohio's OLF booth, I haven't heard anything about the banner
20:09 <   wolfger> Kyle Rankin is at Penguicon too (Ubuntu Hacks)
20:09              greg-g makes note to email jono about that
20:09 < picard_pw> get jono to come to ohio
20:09 <    seisen> how far is troy from detroit
20:10 <    seisen> im too lazy to look it up myself
20:10 <    greg-g> I have a message from the person who will be getting the room for our room party: 
20:10 <    greg-g> <tjagoda> I'm going to be unable to make the meeting tomorrow, could you wave the flag and tell people who are interested in contributing to the cost of the room, and willing to help man it for some period of time on PengiCon's friday, that they should e-mail me their  willingness to render aid? my email = spam.goes.here48048@gmail.com
20:10 < tnseditor> hi kdubois
20:10 <  rick_h__> seisen: 30-40min
20:10 <    greg-g> "the room" is the room party mentioned on the penguicon planning page on Michigan's wiki
20:10 <   kdubois> hey tnseditor
20:10 < posingasp> xjdriver69 and i were talking about our confrence pack from Canonical, and it's not much, just a couple of shirts, etc.
20:11 <    greg-g> posingaspopular: yeah, I just ordered ours for penguicon~
20:11 < xjdriver6> posingaspopular: i think we should ask for more
20:11 <    greg-g> so, is anyone from non-michigan planning on attending?
20:11 < xjdriver6> greg-g: order a couple
20:11 <    greg-g> xjdriver69: you can?
20:12 < picard_pw> greg-g: depends, can you pay for my ticket?
20:12 < posingasp> can we ask for more?
20:12 < xjdriver6> i dont know but 4 shirts
20:12 < picard_pw> :P
20:12 < xjdriver6> not sure
20:12 <    seisen> I am almost positive I am going
20:12 <    greg-g> picard_pwns_kirk: sorry
20:12 <    greg-g> seisen: awesome
20:12              picard_pwns_kirk will go once he learns to drive
20:12 < picard_pw> :P
20:12 <    seisen> my wife will be glad to get rid of me so...
20:12 < tnseditor> :-D
20:12 < posingasp> someone get picard_pwns_kirk a ride?
20:13 <    greg-g> posingaspopular: we might as well try and ask for more, can't hurt as long as we are nice
20:13 < posingasp> okay, but for what event? ;p
20:13 < picard_pw> Penguicon, IIRC
20:13 <    greg-g> Penguicon!
20:13 <   wolfger> tjagoda likes giving people rides. He can go pick picard_pwns_kirk up :-)
20:13 <    greg-g> wolfger: heh, yeah, all the way down to ohio :)
20:13 < dantalizi> hey guys don't forget you may have to pay import duty for everything in the conf pack
20:13 < tnseditor> hi teeahr1
20:14 <   wolfger> import tariffs suck
20:14 <    greg-g> welcome teeahr1, we're in the middle of the tri-loco meeting, discussing a conference in April called Penguicon, penguicon.org
20:14 <   teeahr1> howdy
20:14 < picard_pw> whoever goes -- mail me some freebies :P
20:14 < tnseditor> :-p
20:14 <    greg-g> dantalizing: I lucked out on the box of cds (the big box approved teams get), didn't pay a dime
20:14 < xjdriver6> check out this link  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuAtConferences
20:14 < picard_pw> I'll probably pick up the CD at OLF '08, though
20:15 < posingasp> okay so we have lots of people willing to go. is there anything besides ridesharing that we can do to help make penguincon better?
20:15 <    greg-g> so, would anyone be willing to help out with the room cost, like $10 a peice
20:15 <    greg-g> posingaspopular: ^
20:15 < posingasp> is this event before or after the hardy release
20:15 <    greg-g> 1 week before :(
20:15 <    greg-g> so, "here is a cd, install it, then in a week download 300 megs of updates"
20:15 <   wolfger> heh... we just need to create a bunch of unapproved LoCo teams, and we'll have tons of shirts :-)
20:15 < picard_pw> greg-g: might want to get RC cds for people who want them
20:16 < dantalizi> greg-g wi'll ask you about the cds later
20:16 <    seisen> maybe even though I can just stay at my aunt's anyway
20:16 <   wolfger> greg-g: I can swing $10 towards the room cost
20:16 <    greg-g> dantalizing: ok
20:16 <    greg-g> wolfger: aweosme, email tjagoda 
20:16 <    seisen> I will let you guys know
20:16 <    greg-g> spam.goes.here48048@gmail.com
20:16 <    greg-g> (that is his real email, honest)
20:16 <    seisen> I might evn be able to offer more
20:17 < posingasp> okay, im sorry can I get more details about this room cost deal?
20:17 <    greg-g> seisen: cool
20:17 <    greg-g> oh, yeah
20:17 <    greg-g> so, this room, as described on the wiki page, costs us money.  It is simply a hotel room.  It is on Friday night (the first night) where we will be hanging out and showing demos, watching a movie, etc
20:18 <   wolfger> possibly pouring homebrew
20:18 <    greg-g> I can't remember what the cost of it will be, it will be more than a standard room because we are having them remove the bed (which costs more)
20:18 <   wolfger> I still need to ask about that
20:18 <    greg-g> wolfger: ++
20:18 < posingasp> where will I sleep?
20:18 <   wolfger> floors are comfy ;-)
20:19 < tnseditor> on the floor :-p
20:19 < xjdriver6> in the hall
20:19 < posingasp> maybe..
20:19 <    greg-g> in a room that you get yourself, with someone else from this meeting because that is what we are here to do!
20:19 < posingasp> xjdriver69: you going?
20:19 < xjdriver6> bathtube
20:19 < xjdriver6> on the fence right now
20:19 < tnseditor> you're sleeping on the fence now?  The floor will be better than that! :-p
20:19 < xjdriver6> you havnt seen my fence
20:19 < xjdriver6> :)
20:19 < picard_pw> hahah
20:20 < xjdriver6> its pimp
20:20 < tnseditor> is it a nice fence?
20:20 < xjdriver6> no its a pile of crap
20:20 <    greg-g> so yeah, recap, for those coming, if you are willing to pitch in $10 for the room, let tjagoda know
20:20 < tnseditor> aww
20:20 < xjdriver6> but it keeps the dog in
20:20 < tnseditor> oh
20:21 <    seisen> sometime why I am up there I need to pick up that server too
20:21 <    greg-g> If you want to come to Penguicon, but need a ride, put your name on the wiki page saying so
20:21 <    greg-g> (unless we can think of a better way to do ride share right now)
20:22 < posingasp> does that cover all of penguin con?
20:22 <    greg-g> do what?
20:22 < posingasp> ohio and xjdriver69 want to say anything?
20:22 <    greg-g> does
20:22 <    greg-g> oh, all of the stuff we need to talk about, yeah, I think so
20:22 <    greg-g> just pass along the information to other loco members who might be interested
20:23 <    greg-g> point them to our wiki page, tell them to get in contact with either tjagoda or I or someone in here if they have ideas/questions/whatever
20:23 < picard_pw> how about Ubucon?
20:23 <  rick_h__> wolfger: OT check msg please
20:23 < xjdriver6> do we have any other sponcers at our booth?
20:23 <    seisen> hey tnseditor post a link in the ohio loco wiki to penguicon
20:23 < xjdriver6> system76. dell. zareasons
20:23 < tnseditor> ok
20:23 < tnseditor> where should I put it?
20:23 <    seisen> um.....
20:24 < posingasp> man I could not s76 to respond back to my emails for flourish
20:24 < tnseditor> and what link?  The one for pengiucon or to the wiki?
20:24 <    greg-g> tnseditor: both please if you would be so kind :)
20:24 < tnseditor> ok
20:24 <   wolfger> rick_h__ ???
20:24 <    seisen> under projects
20:24 <    seisen> ya add theirs too
20:25 <  rick_h__> wolfger: check PMs please
20:25 < tnseditor> dang... what's the links again
20:25 <    seisen> or you can create a new wiki page and name tri-loco projects
20:25 <    greg-g> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Projects/Penguicon
20:25 < picard_pw> I gotta go in 5
20:25 < xjdriver6> posingaspopular: you would think they would jump at the chance, unless someone else got them
20:25 <    greg-g> so, what is the next con or event we need to discuss right now?
20:25 < picard_pw> ubucon?
20:26 < posingasp> i thought we were doing ubucon
20:26 <    greg-g> any resources set up for it yet? (planning page or something)
20:26 < picard_pw> nothing IIRC
20:26 < tnseditor> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/OhioUbucon08
20:26 < picard_pw> well, very little
20:26 < posingasp> but it is happening? expected draw, etc?
20:26 <    greg-g> tnseditor: I'll add that to the MichiganTeam wiki
20:27 < tnseditor> thanks
20:27 <    seisen> is rustybronco on here?
20:27 < tnseditor> I'm working on a tri-loco event page
20:27 < picard_pw> wow, a lot has happened since I last checked
20:27 <   wolfger> Ubucon is on a Sunday?
20:27 < tnseditor> well
20:27 < tnseditor> tentatively
20:28 <    seisen> thats a tentative date
20:28 < tnseditor> we need a place first :-p
20:28 <    greg-g> tnseditor: if you are going to do a tri-loco event page for everything we do, you wanna make it wiki.ubuntu/TriLoCo or whatever, just so it looks like it is everyone's project, not just Michigan's or Ohio's.  Just an idea/suggestion, do what you want.
20:28 < picard_pw> Columbus Convention Center?
20:28 <   wolfger> rick_h__: send you PM saying I have no PMs... no reply... still confused what you are talking about
20:28 < tnseditor> ok
20:29 < picard_pw> well, I gotta go
20:29 < posingasp> yea greg-g doe have a point ;p
20:29 <    greg-g> later picard_pwns_kirk 
20:29 <   wolfger> seeya picard_pwns_kirk
20:29 < posingasp> picard_pwns_kirk: thanks for beinghere
20:29 < tnseditor> bye picard_pwns_kirk
20:29 < picard_pw> my pleasure
20:29 < tnseditor> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/triloco
20:29 < tnseditor> will that work?
20:30 < xjdriver6> yeehaw
20:30              greg-g likes capitalization
20:30 < tnseditor> ok
20:30 < picard_pw> not meant in any gross or perverted way
20:30 < tnseditor> hang on
20:30 < picard_pw> anyways, peace out
20:30 < xjdriver6> that dude wasnt kidding
20:30 <   wolfger> TriLoCo could be anywhere... could we be more descriptive?
20:30 <    greg-g> wolfger: good point
20:30 < xjdriver6> Triloco-midwest
20:30 < tnseditor> ok
20:30 <  rick_h__> wolfger: nvm, I'll email you. I'm typing, but you're not getting.
20:30 < tnseditor> is that ok with everyone
20:30 < tnseditor> ?
20:31 < xjdriver6> TriLoco-Midwest
20:31 <    greg-g> MidwestLoCoConsortium  :)
20:31 < tnseditor> haha
20:31 < xjdriver6> hehe
20:31 <    greg-g> MiLoCoCo
20:31 < posingasp> mywestLoCodeathUbuntuLoCo
20:31 <   wolfger> the Midwest LoCo Collective
20:31 < xjdriver6> shaweet!
20:31 < tnseditor> MidWestLoCoConsortiumcoolpeopleandfriends
20:31 < posingasp> okay that's a bit much tnseditor.... :P
20:31 <   wolfger> ok, now that's getting a wee bit silly
20:32 < tnseditor> sorry... I was getting a bit carried away I guess :-p
20:32 < tnseditor> so TriLoCo-Midwest
20:32 <   wolfger> How about MichiganLoCoAndFriends :-D
20:32 <    greg-g> :0
20:32 <    greg-g> :)
20:32 <   wolfger> fine. TriLoCo-Midwest
20:32 <    greg-g> TriLoCo-Midwest works for me
20:32 < tnseditor> sounds like a cheap Barney knock-off
20:32 < posingasp> TriLoCo-Midwest is +1 from me
20:33 <    greg-g> good deal, TriLoCo-Midwest it is
20:33 < tnseditor> I'll get the very basic ideas down now and then add more later
20:33 <    greg-g> who said making group decisions was hard
20:33 <   wolfger> as for Ubucon, I'm out if it stays on that weekend :-(
20:33 <    greg-g> tnseditor: thanks!
20:33 <  rick_h__> wolfger: email sent
20:34 <    seisen> any other events?
20:34 < tnseditor> hang on a sec.
20:34 <    greg-g> k
20:34 < xjdriver6> Florish
20:34 <    greg-g> linky?
20:34 < tnseditor> what's the penguicon link (to their page, not the wiki)
20:35 <    greg-g> penguicon.org
20:35 < tnseditor> :-p
20:35 <    greg-g> http://www.
20:35 < tnseditor> ok
20:35 <    greg-g> reverse that
20:35 <    greg-g> :)
20:35 < tnseditor> :-p
20:36 <    greg-g> xjdriver69: link for Florish?
20:36 <    seisen> what is it?
20:36              greg-g doesn't know
20:36 < xjdriver6> http://www.flourishconf.com/
20:36 < posingasp> yes
20:36 < xjdriver6> click the link to see what they did last year
20:37 < posingasp> i think they are still working on the site, i should ask roberto about that...
20:37 < posingasp> anyway im helping plan it and we have MADDOG
20:37 < posingasp> yes!
20:37 < xjdriver6> nice
20:37 < xjdriver6> just keep RMS away
20:38 < xjdriver6> :P
20:38 <  rick_h__> wolfger: do you have IM, can you PM me an IM name pls?>
20:38 <    greg-g> florish looks interesting, at least last year's events
20:38 < posingasp> what is RMS?
20:38 < xjdriver6> hehe
20:39 < posingasp> greg-g: last year was fun, this year is going to be better. better speakers, more people, nice layout, etc.
20:39 <    greg-g> posingaspopular: cool
20:39 < posingasp> can someone tell me what an RMS is?
20:39 <    greg-g> so, yeah, add that to TriLoCo-Midwest then
20:39 <   wolfger> ???
20:39 <   wolfger> "what is RMS?
20:39 < xjdriver6> Richard Stalman
20:39 <   wolfger> lol
20:39 < tnseditor> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TriLoCo-Midwest
20:40 <    greg-g> it is a measurement of constant wattage, usually seen on car stereo ads
20:40 < posingasp> so yea, besides a confrence pack and cds, the loco isn't going on much
20:40 <   wolfger> Now I feel old... somebody asked what RMS is. :-P
20:40 < tnseditor> I knew who he is
20:40 < tnseditor> :-)
20:40 <    greg-g> thanks tnseditor 
20:40 < posingasp> im going to try and push some of the loco into the mini bar camp sessions to do tech. talks if at all possible
20:40 < tnseditor> I'm 19
20:41 < posingasp> how is richard staleman =RMS
20:41 <    greg-g> Richard M. Stallman
20:41 < posingasp> that should be RSM afaik
20:41 < tnseditor> Richard Matthew Stallman
20:41 < posingasp> who?
20:41 < xjdriver6> hehe
20:41 < posingasp> that is that upside down W?
20:42 <    greg-g> so yeah, anything else we need to discuss event wise?
20:42 < tnseditor> eventually later in the year, Ohio Linux Fest
20:42 < posingasp> okay boo
20:42 < tnseditor> and we'll probably do a Hardy release party
20:42 <    greg-g> tnseditor: yeah, we can probably save that till a bit later, we have other things to get through first
20:42 < posingasp> i requested 600 cds. and they gave me 150
20:42 <    snap-l> Hola.
20:42 < tnseditor> thanks for your support posingaspopular
20:42 < tnseditor> :-p
20:42 < posingasp> hold on now everyone
20:42 < posingasp> nobody leaves
LOG CLOSED Tue Jan 22 20:42:56 2008
LOG OPENED Tue Jan 22 20:43:16 2008
20:43 < posingasp> everyone get togther, smile, say chesse and promise to remember this moment
20:43 < tnseditor> on an IRC channel.
20:43 < posingasp> no silly!
20:43 < tnseditor> what is the world coming to?
20:43 < posingasp> we need to schedule another meeting
20:43 <    snap-l> wait, my eyes were closed
20:43 < tnseditor> ... and I looked stupid
20:43 <    greg-g> how's a month from now?
20:43 < tnseditor> ok
20:43 < xjdriver6> the picture makes me look fat, wait i am fat
20:44 < tnseditor> haha
20:44 < posingasp> feb. 19th?
20:44 <    seisen> ok
20:44 < posingasp> same time?
20:44 <   wolfger> everyone smile and say "KDE"
20:44 < tnseditor> ok
20:44 < posingasp> KDE!!!
20:44 <    seisen> by then I will know what i am doing
20:44 <    greg-g> posingaspopular: sure
20:44 < tnseditor> GNOME!
20:44 <    seisen> OPENBOX!!!!!!
20:44              posingaspopular thinks tnseditor is bad at photography
20:44 < xjdriver6> GOME!!!
20:44 < rivalarri> XFCE
20:44 <    greg-g> CLI!!!
20:44 < tnseditor> I could be worse :-p
20:44 < rivalarri> WIN2K!!!
20:44 < posingasp> so can i tnseditor
20:45 < posingasp> 'whats that upside down W mean?'
20:45 < tnseditor> myspace?
20:45 < xjdriver6> MIDWESTSIDE!!
20:46 <   wolfger> rofl
20:46 <    greg-g> so, who wants to mail out the respective mailing lists the next meeting date and time?
20:46 < tnseditor> are we going to meet on #ubuntu-us-mi again?
20:46 < tnseditor> I will for Ohio
20:46 <    greg-g> we can move it around each time
20:46 < tnseditor> ok
20:46 < tnseditor> how about #ubuntu-us-oh?
20:46 < xjdriver6> i think mi is good, keeps the chicago punks out
20:46 <    greg-g> see how we like each other's furnishings
20:46 <   wolfger> is #ubuntu-us-triloco-midwest too long of a channel name? ;-)
20:46 < tnseditor> haha
20:47 <    seisen> kind of
20:47 <    greg-g> or, we might be able to reserver #ubuntu-meeting if we want
20:47 < posingasp> tnseditor: im okay with -ohio
20:47 <    greg-g> but then we won't get loco stragglers
20:47 < tnseditor> ok
20:47 <   wolfger> sure
20:47 <    seisen> why don't we do that greg-g
20:48 <    greg-g> who do we talk to to reserve it?
20:49 < xjdriver6> just take it
20:49 < xjdriver6> ask for permission later
20:49 < tnseditor> :-p
20:49 < posingasp> email the ubuntu-fridge people
20:49 < rivalarri> Always better to ask forgiveness than permission
20:49 < xjdriver6> what are they going to do, take away your birthday?
20:50 <    greg-g> so, Feb. 19th at 8pm EST, in #ubuntu-meeting ?
20:50 <   wolfger> woot
20:50 < posingasp> if possible greg-g, if we cant get that -oh
20:50 <   wolfger> although I may not be there
20:50 <    greg-g> sounds good
20:50 < posingasp> i need to go do other non ubuntu stuff now. seeall of you around
20:50 <    greg-g> I'll email the fridge people asking about it
20:50 < tnseditor> adios
20:50 <    greg-g> later
20:50 <   wolfger> seeya
20:51 <    greg-g> when I get a response for yes/no, I'll let the other teams know so they can relay the message
20:51 <    greg-g> tnseditor: I'll copy over the meeting "agenda" and log to TriLoCo-Midwest/Meetings/20080122
20:52 < tnseditor> ok
20:52 <    greg-g> --- Meeting Adjurned ---
</pre>
