{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== IRC Meeting on February 19th, 2008 ==

=== Where? When? ===

* Location: #ubuntu-us-oh channel on Freenode.  
** Unsure what the previous line meant: Read <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam/IRC|this guide]]</nowiki>.

* Time: 8pm EST

=== Synopsis ===

Each team gave an update of the events and happenings of their team.

Ohio shared updates on Ubucon.

Chicago has several projects they are working on such as Flourish and a deal they are working on with a local school.

Michigan is continuing to prepare for Penguicon.  They have received a conference pack that Jono set up.

=== Log ===
{{{
(08:00:15 PM) jacob: i dunno... shoutout for chicago/michigan?
(08:00:23 PM) eddieftw: okay im here, im duno what's happening with michigan
(08:00:37 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: postseason grudge
(08:00:43 PM) jacob: :D
(08:00:58 PM) rivalarrival: jacob: I know. Unfortunately, I can only control it properly with IM, and I can't IM unless it has a registered nick...
(08:01:00 PM) ***jacob puts on headphones, plays ohio state music
(08:01:09 PM) greg-g: I'm here
(08:01:17 PM) jacob: rivalarrival: /ns help set
(08:01:17 PM) eddieftw: okay that's good
(08:01:23 PM) tnseditor: jacob, get some good speakers and play it so all can hear :-p
(08:01:32 PM) jacob: it's one of those options that allows you to receive unregistered messages
(08:01:42 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: man, solaris is slow to load
(08:01:49 PM) jacob: can you hear it?
(08:01:58 PM) tnseditor: no
(08:02:01 PM) tnseditor: hang on
(08:02:04 PM) tnseditor: let me open a window
(08:02:07 PM) ***eddieftw puts on some chicago music
(08:02:07 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: let's get started
(08:02:14 PM) jacob: aye
(08:02:23 PM) kdub [n=kevin@bluesocket.bus.umich.edu] entered the room.
(08:02:24 PM) tnseditor: French National!
(08:02:26 PM) tnseditor: hi kdub
(08:02:28 PM) eddieftw: introductions?
(08:02:29 PM) ***picard_pwns_kirk is picard_pwns_kirk 
(08:02:32 PM) tnseditor: haha
(08:02:35 PM) tnseditor: never would have guess
(08:02:37 PM) tnseditor: *ed
(08:02:40 PM) kdub: hi tnseditor
(08:02:53 PM) ***tnseditor has done "Script Elida"
(08:02:55 PM) ***jacob is a crazy ohioan
(08:02:57 PM) ***picard_pwns_kirk puts on his scarlet and gray
(08:03:08 PM) ***tnseditor is John from Ohio
(08:03:08 PM) greg-g: Hi, I'm Greg, from Michigan.
(08:03:23 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: Alvin, 13, ohio
(08:03:24 PM) jacob: hallo
(08:03:34 PM) ***eddieftw is chicao head. send to recieve.... jk :P
(08:03:43 PM) jacob: :D
(08:03:43 PM) eddieftw: chicago LoCo head
(08:03:54 PM) tnseditor: eddieftw: are you aware that Chicago is its own state?
(08:04:02 PM) jacob: according to tnseditor
(08:04:05 PM) tnseditor: no
(08:04:08 PM) jacob: :D
(08:04:08 PM) tnseditor: I corrected you :-p
(08:04:17 PM) jacob: nah, i asked a question
(08:04:26 PM) tnseditor: and I quote Jacob "What states are involved with the tri loco team?"
(08:04:28 PM) jacob: and you replied with.. oh never mind, let's get on with this :D
(08:04:38 PM) eddieftw: i saw, but .. yea, lets move on
(08:04:41 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: mmkay
(08:04:43 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: agenda
(08:04:47 PM) eddieftw: greg-g: are you or jcastro the MI head?
(08:04:59 PM) greg-g: eddieftw: I am
(08:05:00 PM) ***jacob wasn't here last time, anyone have a set plan?
(08:05:10 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: jacob: not that I know of
(08:05:22 PM) tnseditor: basically we talked about our locos' events last time
(08:05:40 PM) tnseditor: so maybe this time we should do updates on how stuff is going?
(08:05:48 PM) greg-g: yeah, you can look at the main wiki page for the list of major events happening in the area, with links
(08:05:53 PM) jacob: fine by me
(08:06:07 PM) jacob: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TriLoCo-Midwest correct?
(08:06:13 PM) greg-g: correct
(08:06:22 PM) jacob: shweet
(08:06:28 PM) eddieftw: well, why don't we start with updates on confrences yes? ubucon, flourish and penguincon? and then talk about projects, etc.
(08:06:29 PM) tnseditor: now we can all be on the same page :-p
(08:06:35 PM) tnseditor: ok
(08:06:51 PM) tnseditor: ...
(08:06:53 PM) greg-g: alright, who's first?
(08:07:14 PM) tnseditor: We will go
(08:07:16 PM) tnseditor: (Ohio)
(08:07:20 PM) tnseditor: :-)
(08:07:23 PM) jacob: nyak nyak nyak nyak
(08:07:28 PM) tnseditor: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/OhioUbucon08
(08:07:58 PM) tnseditor: Since we last met we have decided to try to have Ubucon at the Hilliard branch of the Columbus Metro Library
(08:08:12 PM) ***picard_pwns_kirk will try to go there and take photos
(08:08:14 PM) tnseditor: I have already listed some supplies needed for it
(08:08:15 PM) jacob: I definitely saw a bunch of wiki edits in my inbox... anyone know where Anthony (theidiotthatisme) is? he kinda had the know with some of this
(08:08:27 PM) tnseditor: he sent out a thing earlier today
(08:08:39 PM) jacob: ah, so he did, i'll shut up :)
(08:08:41 PM) tnseditor: he won't be on tonight because he is moving to Florida
(08:08:44 PM) tnseditor: :-p
(08:08:58 PM) jacob: ah, a good excuse, unlike mine of "i forgot"
(08:09:01 PM) tnseditor: haha
(08:09:26 PM) jacob: anyway... both you other locos (mich, chi) both have us beat in terms of a website
(08:09:29 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: jacob: that's ALWAYS a valid excuse
(08:09:41 PM) tnseditor: I like our website :-)
(08:09:42 PM) tnseditor: :-p
(08:09:43 PM) jacob: which we'll probably get up this week... i might impulse buy a domain :-!
(08:09:48 PM) tnseditor: oh
(08:09:52 PM) jacob: tnseditor: in terms of an ubucon website
(08:09:54 PM) tnseditor: yes
(08:09:56 PM) tnseditor: sorry
(08:09:59 PM) jacob: np
(08:10:29 PM) greg-g: penguicon is not put on by the MiLoCo, we are just taking it over
(08:10:41 PM) greg-g: we roll deep
(08:10:54 PM) jacob: noice :)
(08:11:08 PM) eddieftw: bhaha nixw
(08:11:12 PM) jacob: love the trekkie banner :D
(08:11:42 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: linux + star trek = awesome
(08:11:51 PM) greg-g: says picard_pwns_kirk
(08:11:57 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: XD
(08:12:02 PM) greg-g: :)
(08:12:08 PM) eddieftw: jacob: you mean the chiglug website
(08:12:36 PM) jacob: eddieftw: hm?
(08:12:40 PM) Phineas: i cant stop looking on the omnomnomnmom.com website
(08:12:44 PM) tnseditor: :-p
(08:12:57 PM) Phineas: its funny
(08:12:58 PM) jacob: i see one on penguicon as well, but eh!
(08:13:00 PM) eddieftw: i mean, which website are you talking about in terms of chicago
(08:13:09 PM) jacob: ah
(08:13:32 PM) jacob: was just talking in a sense of chicago & michigan both have ubucon sites vs us not having one yet :)
(08:13:50 PM) jacob: if i remember right, drupal is ready to go on it
(08:13:56 PM) tnseditor: jacob is going to end up setting one up before the end of the night :-p
(08:13:58 PM) jacob: i just never activated the subdomain :-!
(08:14:03 PM) jacob: tnseditor: you know i will
(08:14:52 PM) jacob: anyway, I think that's about it for ubucon updates... what do y'all got?
(08:15:55 PM) eddieftw: okay i'll go if greg will let me
(08:16:29 PM) greg-g: umm, go?
(08:16:55 PM) eddieftw: okay well I'll start with Flourish and then talk about the LoCo
(08:17:02 PM) eddieftw: flourishconf.com
(08:17:18 PM) eddieftw: iirc... so the registartion is open. the largest annual oss confrence in chicago
(08:17:19 PM) tnseditor: ok
(08:18:12 PM) tnseditor: hey
(08:18:18 PM) tnseditor: this has nothing to do with this, but...
(08:18:27 PM) eddieftw: april 4-5 which is a friday and saturday
(08:18:31 PM) tnseditor: A kid from Elida may be on American Idol tonight
(08:18:40 PM) tnseditor: Elida is where I graduated from
(08:18:45 PM) ***eddieftw hates tnseditor atm...
(08:18:47 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: tnseditor: god help the poor soul
(08:18:47 PM) tnseditor: sorry
(08:18:51 PM) jacob: (lol)
(08:18:54 PM) jacob: april 4-5.. gotcha
(08:19:12 PM) picard_pwns_kirk: I'd go, but I can't drive
(08:19:30 PM) eddieftw: so the LoCo is working on maximizing the effeciency of our appeal at the event
(08:20:06 PM) eddieftw: right now im helping the community booths (gnome, foresight, lugs, kde, etc.) get their tables up and running.
(08:20:30 PM) tnseditor: good :-)
(08:20:51 PM) jacob: eddieftw: where is it at? convention center, library, etc?
(08:21:13 PM) eddieftw: opps. University of Illinois- Chicago. near south side of chicago.
(08:21:19 PM) jacob: ah kk :)
(08:21:39 PM) eddieftw: picard_pwns_kirk: if you can take the train down to chicago, you can crash at my house most likely
(08:22:11 PM) eddieftw: i couldn't find anyone to sponsor the hackathon, but the former head of our LoCo is giving a talk about kde4
(08:22:44 PM) eddieftw: hmm i think that's all about flourish, let me move onto the exciting news about the LoCo
(08:22:49 PM) eddieftw: we have a meeting on Saturday
(08:23:22 PM) tnseditor: Can I interrupt again?
(08:23:24 PM) tnseditor: :-p
(08:23:30 PM) eddieftw: never
(08:23:57 PM) jacob: tnseditor: if only i remembered the syntax for a freenode mute ;)
(08:24:18 PM) tnseditor: We have a meeting tomorrow and... I just saw a commercial advertising the Ford with MS Sync
(08:24:26 PM) tnseditor: they showed a website with Safari :-p
(08:24:37 PM) ***tnseditor shuts up for at least 10 seconds after this
(08:24:38 PM) jacob: yes, so did I
(08:24:41 PM) jacob: </ADD>
(08:24:45 PM) jacob: ;)
(08:25:00 PM) jacob: sorry eddieftw, continue
(08:25:33 PM) eddieftw: okay so the meeting is about our next project led by a guy by the name of Patrick Green
(08:26:12 PM) eddieftw: we are planning on donating equipment to a school with one provision. ~12 machines, including some backups, etc.
(08:26:38 PM) tnseditor: nice
(08:26:47 PM) eddieftw: several nights a week, we will be running Ubuntu Classroom classes out of the school
(08:26:50 PM) ***Phineas needs to know where Ubucon is
(08:27:05 PM) jacob left the room (quit: "leaving").
(08:27:07 PM) tnseditor: sounds great eddieftw
(08:27:19 PM) jacob [n=jacobmp@ubuntu/member/jacob] entered the room.
(08:27:21 PM) eddieftw: starting from the basic desktop guide released by Canonical and moving onto advanced Ubuntu hacking skills that our members have
(08:27:28 PM) tnseditor: Phineas: Hilliard
(08:27:33 PM) tnseditor: good :-)
(08:27:40 PM) jacob: (sorry, client crash)
(08:27:41 PM) Phineas: ohio?
(08:27:46 PM) tnseditor: for Ubucon
(08:27:47 PM) tnseditor: Ohio
(08:27:48 PM) tnseditor: yes
(08:27:55 PM) Phineas: mapquest!
(08:28:01 PM) tnseditor: It would be cool to do that around here in Lima eddieftw
(08:28:05 PM) eddieftw: we are hoping to use this to generate a small amount of funds for more promotions, advocacy, LoCo sponsorship of confrences etc.
(08:28:15 PM) eddieftw: thanks tnseditor :P
(08:28:24 PM) tnseditor: maybe set a can up or something "Donations welcome"
(08:28:36 PM) greg-g: thats awesome eddieftw
(08:29:04 PM) Phineas: 2hrs away cant do it
(08:29:26 PM) jacob: i could use it as an excuse to get my drive time in :P
(08:29:28 PM) tnseditor: I'm two hours awayish
(08:29:31 PM) eddieftw: so saturday is the first official meeting for this project, we are aiming for a launch of summer 08 for this. personally im excited, and that is the next big Chicago proec
(08:29:36 PM) tnseditor: great plan jacob
(08:29:38 PM) eddieftw: project*
(08:29:56 PM) jacob: epic
(08:30:10 PM) eddieftw: one more thign coming out of chicago which is in the works but still not blog worthy
(08:30:26 PM) tnseditor: ?
(08:30:42 PM) tnseditor: Chicago LoCo has been busy :-)
(08:31:20 PM) eddieftw: the Linux Users of Norhtern Illinois (LUNI) is being regroupped into the Chicago Open Source Alliance (i forget the real name) to promote OSS in the area. It's a meta group and we are still working on the logistics of it, but we plan on doign a press release about this at Flourish
(08:31:31 PM) eddieftw: and that's my work in the past 6 weeks or however long it's been
(08:31:37 PM) eddieftw: but it's all still very hush hush atm
(08:31:40 PM) tnseditor: wow
(08:31:45 PM) jacob: that's pretty cool eddieftw
(08:32:31 PM) greg-g: hush hush on the wide open IRC channels ;)
(08:32:45 PM) jacob: you are lucky locobot isn't in here ;)
(08:32:54 PM) ***eddieftw kidnaps locobot
(08:33:23 PM) ***greg-g logs everything and puts it online.  hyperlinking all nicknames to their home address in google.
(08:34:29 PM) jacob: go ahead, link me. it's impossible for google to index my site
(08:34:35 PM) jacob: it can't figure out javascript! :D
(08:35:07 PM) jacob: lest you meant email addresses
(08:35:13 PM) jacob: in which case i'm screwed!
(08:35:39 PM) ***greg-g meant home, as in where you live
(08:36:20 PM) greg-g: So.
(08:36:21 PM) greg-g: Michigan
(08:36:27 PM) jacob: oh foo, so even more so!
(08:36:37 PM) ***jacob hides
(08:36:41 PM) tnseditor: hit it greg-g
(08:36:43 PM) greg-g: we've been a little lax lately.  Our latest Packaging Jam was pushed back to uncontrollable reasons
(08:37:00 PM) tnseditor: oh
(08:37:24 PM) greg-g: but, we have that penguicon conference coming up.  I have the box of 300 (or so) Gutsy cds, along with the new "Conference Pack" Jono set up (hats, shirts, pens, stickers)
(08:37:40 PM) tnseditor: nice
(08:37:42 PM) tnseditor: really nice
(08:38:10 PM) greg-g: yeah, we will be having a room party, a packaging jam, a bug jam, and a bunch of Ubuntu-folk will be there
(08:38:26 PM) greg-g: (Jono, Mako, JCastro, me)
(08:38:27 PM) greg-g: ;)
(08:38:37 PM) jacob: nice
(08:38:39 PM) tnseditor: you're right up there :-p
(08:38:42 PM) tnseditor: :-)
(08:38:54 PM) eddieftw: i want to go but i probably wont be able to pay for it
(08:39:51 PM) greg-g: it'll be a good time
(08:40:00 PM) greg-g: but other than that, not much to report from Michigan
(08:40:57 PM) linuxcolumbus [n=pat@cpe-65-24-125-200.columbus.res.rr.com] entered the room.
(08:41:05 PM) tnseditor: hi linuxcolumbus
(08:41:17 PM) linuxcolumbus: hello
(08:41:35 PM) tnseditor: we're winding down on the tri-loco meeting
(08:41:38 PM) jacob: allrighty, well there we have it. do we have any more notes from any team?  }}}
