{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About TriLoCo-Midwest ==

The Tri-LoCo Midwest team is made of members of the <nowiki>[[OhioTeam|Ohio]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Michigan]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam|Chicago]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[IndianaTeam|Indiana]]</nowiki> LoCo teams (4 is the new 3).  The group exists to provide collaboration on current and upcoming events.  Our first meeting was held on Tuesday, January 22, 2008.
 
== Events Planned ==

=== Penguicon ===
Lead contact for this event is the <nowiki>[[MichiganTeam|Michigan LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* Links:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Projects/Penguicon
** http://www.penguicon.org

=== Ohio Ubucon ===
Lead contact for this event is the <nowiki>[[OhioTeam|Ohio LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* Links:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/OhioUbucon08

=== Flourish ===
Lead contact for this event is the <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam|Chicago LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* Links:
** http://www.flourishconf.com/

=== Indiana Linuxfest ===
Lead contact for this event is the <nowiki>[[IndianaTeam|Indiana LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.
* Links:
** http://www.indianalinux.org/

== Meetings ==
The next meeting is to be announced.

See our <nowiki>[[TriLoCo-Midwest/Meetings|meetings]]</nowiki> page for more details and past meetings.
