{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Welcome ===

This is the projects page for the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinidad_and_Tobago|Trinidad & Tobago]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCo|loco]]</nowiki>. This page is a quick and easy way to find out what the team is up to, as well as who is doing what.

=== Team Projects ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background: orange"> '''Role'''
| '''Active'''
| '''Contact'''
|-
| Bug Triaging
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/trinikrono|trinikrono]]</nowiki>
|-
| Team Docs
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/metasansana| metasansana]]</nowiki>
|-
| Desktop & Server support
| Yes
| use irc, <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/285982144750674/|facebook]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://tt.ubuntuforums.org/| forums]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.twitter.com/ubuntutt|twitter]]</nowiki> etc.
|-
| Kernel Concepts (with training)
| Yes
| <nowiki>[[latentprion|Latentprion]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Team Docs ====

We are trying to build a collection of online documents that can help newcomers settle quickly and comfortably. Most likely these will be linked wiki documents but ideas are welcomed.

==== Desktop & Server Support ====

We provide general support and advice to user's of the ubuntu operating system.

Involves:
* Providing support in the #ubuntu-tt irc channel.
* Providing support on the <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/285982144750674/|Facebook]]</nowiki> page.
* Answering questions in the <nowiki>[[http://tt.ubuntuforums.org/| forums]]</nowiki>.
* Getting involved in discussions on the support <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-tt| mailing list]]</nowiki>. 

==== Kernel Concepts (with training) ====

<nowiki>[[latentprion|Latent Prion]]</nowiki> Has offered to do training on Operating System kernel development concepts on IRC to any persons who are interested and know C or C++; Anyone interested need only indicate so on the TT Ubuntu group's Facebook page, or join his IRC channel, #zbz-dev on the Freenode IRC network. Kernel development is widely regard to be one of the most difficult subfields in programming, so interested persons should be prepared to do a lot of reading upon direction, and a lot of original private research.

Have fun, and happy hacking!

=== The Team ===
For more info about the team, please see the team's <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrinidadandTobagoTeam/|page]]</nowiki>.
