{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[TrinidadandTobagoTeam|Back to Trinbago Team]]</nowiki>
==== Roadmap ====
Here is a collection of the present and future projects that ubuntu-tt will be working on.
----
* '''OBJECTIVE''' : Draft Marketing Plan.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''' : A Marketing Plan.
* '''ACTIONS''' :
** Makes a draft
** Board passes draft
** Implements marketing plan.
* '''DRIVER''' :<nowiki>[[ndelandro]]</nowiki>
----
* '''OBJECTIVE''' : Contribute to UbuntuTeams.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''' : 300 memebers in the  BugSquad.
* '''ACTIONS''' :
** Starts with TriagingProcedures.
* '''BLUEPRINT''': <link>
The rationale used is that the more capable that an individual is, the more that he/she can offer to the LoCo and Ubuntu as a whole. Specialisation in teams will help with Organising training as more experienced team members will help to get new contributors on their way to making ubuntu bigger and better.
* '''DRIVER''' :<nowiki>[[trinikrono]]</nowiki>
----
* '''OBJECTIVE''' : Become a Approved Loco Team
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''' : To move from being a New Team to a Approved Team.
* '''ACTIONS''' :
** <nowiki>[[LoCoGettingApproved]]</nowiki> - Complete steps outlined here
* '''DRIVER''' :<nowiki>[[trinikrono]]</nowiki>
----

==== Completed ====
* http://softwarefreedomday.org/ - 18th September 2010 - Went software freedom day in trincity mall - trinikrono.
* Created forum on ubuntuforums.2010/05/09
* Got jpds to redirect http://ubuntu-tt.org to wiki page.27/04/2010
* Updated wiki page.12/04/2010
* Created irc channel.09/04/2010
* Created Launchpad Team.14/02/2010
* Created Mailing list
