{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[TrinidadandTobagoTeam|Back to Trinbago Team]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Links that will be useful for team members<<BR>>
Please put a link with a short description.
==== Trinidad and Tobago ====
Collection of links for local organisations in Trinbago.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tt.org]]</nowiki> - Tell a friend and please Bookmark this page :D
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ttcsweb.org/]]</nowiki> - Trinidad and Tobago Computer Society.
* <nowiki>[[http://groups.yahoo.com/group/ttcs]]</nowiki> - TTCS Discussion Yahoo Groups Mailing list.
* <nowiki>[[http://ttlug.org/]]</nowiki> - Trinidad and Tobago Linux User Group.
* <nowiki>[[http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/TTLUG]]</nowiki> - TTLUG Yahoo Groups Mailing list.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=21668832501]]</nowiki> - TTLUG Facebook Group.
* <nowiki>[[http://groups.drupal.org/trinidad-tobago]]</nowiki> - Trinidad and Tobago Drupal Group.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=345263018571]]</nowiki> - Trinidad and Tobago Drupal user facebook group.
==== Ubuntu Links ====
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org]]</nowiki> - Collaborative Guide on Each Ubuntu Release.
* http://ubuntu-manual.org/- Beginners Guide to ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Releases.
* http://packages.ubuntu.com Information about all the packages available in the Ubuntu Package archive.
* http://manpages.ubuntu.com
* http://www.ubuntuupdates.org - Information about package updates.
* http://archive.ubuntu.com - Ubuntu Archive.
* http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com - Ubuntu Brainstorm.
* http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/ - Irc logs of all the ubuntu channels.
* http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/
* http://www.psychocats.net
* http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449 - Comprehensive Sound Troubleshooting guide.
==== News ====
* http://www.ubuntugeek.com/
* http://www.markshuttleworth.com/
* <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/]]</nowiki> - Daily news on ubuntu and apps
* <nowiki>[[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki> - The Ubuntu Fridge.
==== Events ====
* <nowiki>[[Hour]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> -   
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki> : 
* <nowiki>[[UserDays]]</nowiki> - 
* <nowiki>[[Lernid]]</nowiki> - tool for openweek and developerweek. Very handy
==== Tutorials ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.itworld.com/operating-systems/249646/create-bootable-linux-flash-drive-three-easy-steps|Create a bootable Linux flash drive in three easy steps ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.howtogeek.com/107537/how-to-make-simple-graphical-shell-scripts-with-zenity-on-linux/ | How to Make Simple Graphical Shell Scripts with Zenity on Linux ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxconfig.org/Bash_scripting_Tutorial | Bash Scripting ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.thepowerbase.com/2012/04/how-to-fix-broken-packages-in-ubuntu-or-debian/ | Hot To Fix Broken Packages In Ubuntu Or Debian]]</nowiki>
