{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== K/Ubuntu Resources ===

==== Repositories ====

* Searching for an Ubuntu Package
<pre>
apt-cache search regexp
</pre>
* What package is that file in?
<pre>
sudo apt-get install apt-file
sudo apt-file update
apt-file search regexp
</pre>

* Which installed package a file belongs to?
<pre>
dpkg -S filename
</pre>

* Unlocking the Adept Database:
<pre>
dpkg --configure -a
</pre>

* KDE 3.5.8
<pre>
deb http://kubuntu.org/packages/kde-358 feisty main
</pre>

* Skype
<pre>
deb http://download.skype.com/linux/repos/debian/ stable non-free
</pre>

* Medibuntu
<pre>
deb http://packages.medibuntu.org/ feisty non-free
</pre> 

* Ubuntu Commercial (including VMWare Server)
<pre>
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu feisty-commercial main
</pre>

* Google software repository
<pre>
deb http://dl.google.com/linux/deb/ stable non-free
</pre>

==== Installations ====
 
* Flash Player
<pre>
sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree
</pre>

* Installing a LAMP Stack
<pre>
sudo apt-get install apache2 mysql-server php5 libapache2-mod-php5 php5-xsl php5-gd php-pear libapache2-mod-auth-mysql php5-mysql
</pre>

* Installing Eclipse,Sun Java in Ubuntu
<pre>
sudo apt-get install eclipse sun-java6-jdk
</pre>

This will install the required packages, however, Eclipse will run very slowly since it will be using GNU’s java, not Sun’s. We now need to make Sun’s java the default.
<pre>
sudo update-java-alternatives -s java-6-sun
</pre>

Next, edit the JVM configuration file
<pre>
sudo -b gedit /etc/jvm
</pre>

and add the following to the top of the file
<pre>
/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun
</pre>

There is a bug right now were Eclipse ignores Ubuntu’s java-common settings and uses its own (bug 45347). To work around the bug, you need to edit Eclipse’s java_home file
<pre>
sudo -b gedit /etc/eclipse/java_home
</pre>

and add
<pre>
/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun
</pre>

to the top of the file.

==== Setting up Ubuntu 7.04 on a Dell Inspiron 6400 ====

Install from the Alternate Ubuntu CD. After the installation reboot your laptop, and login into the system using text mode. Then do the following:

<pre>
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-15-generic
sudo depmod -a
sudo aticonfig --initial 
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
</pre>

Also add the following line /etc/modules: <code> fglrx </code>

You can either reboot after that or you can run following commands to get the graphical interface:
<pre>
sudo modprobe fglrx
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
</pre>

==== Useful Commands ====
* Ubuntu System Information
<pre>
lsb_release -a
</pre>
