{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== New Features in Lubuntu 14.04 Beta 2 ==

As with all alphas and betas they are not suitable for a production environment. This Beta2 testing release of Lubuntu contains:

* New pcmanfm (1.2.0 version), with a lot of new features (folder settings, dual pane view, menu editing).
* New lxsession-default-apps with a new user interface.
* An update of the artwork (new icons, theme update, more compatibilities ...).
 
=== Lubuntu Applications ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* Lightdm, using the simple GTK greeter.
* Firefox, the famous web browser.
* For more detail, please see the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Applications | full list of applications]]</nowiki>

=== System Requirements ===

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with a standard lubuntu desktop.

14.04 32 bit ISO require your CPU to have Physical Address Extensions, or PAE. "PAE is provided by Intel Pentium Pro and above CPUs, including all later Pentium-series processors (except most 400 MHz-bus versions of the Pentium M)." - If you have a NON-PAE CPU and would like to install Lubuntu 12.10, please see <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-install-ubuntu-1210-on-non-pae.html | this link]]</nowiki>

For PowerPC, it is known to run on a G4 running at 867MHz with 640MB RAM. 

For Intel based Macs, lubuntu should run on all models.

== Known Issues ==
=== Installation ===
* PPC has several issues and workarounds, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/PPC |documentation on the wiki]]</nowiki>
* Desktop PPC is over sized.
 

=== Graphics and Display ===

=== Applications ===
 

== Support ==
* LTS support (3 years)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs | Contact us]]</nowiki>.
