{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
"Trust only movement.  Life happens at the level of events, not of words.  Trust movement."  
 ― Alfred Adler

The first Alpha of the Trusty Tahr (to become 14.04) has now been released!

This alpha features images for Edubuntu, Kubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME, 
UbuntuKylin and Xubuntu.

Pre-releases of Trusty Tahr are *not* encouraged for anyone
needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running
into occasional, even frequent breakage.  They are, however,
recommended for Ubuntu flavor developers and those who want to 
help in testing, reporting and fixing bugs as we work towards getting
this release ready.

Alpha 1 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing. This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect some
bugs.

While these Alpha 1 images have been tested and work, except as noted in
the release notes, Ubuntu developers are continuing to improve Trusty Tahr.  
In particular, once newer daily images are available, system
installation bugs identified in the Alpha 1 installer should be verified
against the current daily image before being reported in Launchpad.
Using an obsolete image to re-report bugs that have already been fixed
wastes your time and the time of developers who are busy trying to make
14.04 the best Ubuntu release yet.  Always ensure your system is up to
date before reporting bugs.

There were been some adjustments to the release schedule for 14.04 
in the last vUDS, so for the latest plans, please check:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule

Edubuntu:
  Edubuntu aims to bring Ubuntu to educational institutions by
  shipping the finest educational software available in an easy 
  to configure installer. It also supports diskless booting and 
  for the first time in 14.04, a directory server that supports 
  single sign-on.

  The Alpha-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/trusty/alpha-1/

  More information on Edubuntu Alpha-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/Alpha1/Edubuntu

Kubuntu:
  Kubuntu is the KDE based flavour of Ubuntu. It uses the Plasma 
  desktop and includes a wide selection of tools from the KDE project.

  The Alpha-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/trusty/alpha-1/

  More information on Kubuntu Alpha-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/Alpha1/Kubuntu

Ubuntu GNOME:
  Ubuntu GNOME is an flavor of Ubuntu featuring the 
  GNOME desktop environment.

  The Alpha-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/trusty/alpha-1/

  More information on Ubuntu-GNOME Alpha-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/Alpha1/UbuntuGNOME

UbuntuKylin:
  UbuntuKylin is a flavor of Ubuntu that is more suitable for 
  Chinese users.

  The Alpha-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/trusty/alpha-1/

  More information on UbuntuKylin Alpha-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/1404-alpha-1-ReleaseNote  

Xubuntu:
  Xubuntu is a flavor of  Ubuntu that comes with Xfce, which is a 
  stable, light and configurable desktop environment.

  The Alpha-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/trusty/alpha-1/

  More information on Xubuntu Alpha-1 can be found here:
  http://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-14-04-alpha-1/

Regular daily images for Ubuntu can be found at: 
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
Trusty, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce list.
This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a week) carrying announcements
of approved specifications, policy changes, alpha releases and other
interesting events.  

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to 
pull together this Alpha release!

Kate Stewart & Steve Langasek, on behalf of the Ubuntu release team.
</pre>
