{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is very pleased to announce our fifth long-term support
release, Ubuntu 14.04 LTS for Desktop, Server, and Cloud, as well as
Ubuntu 14.04 for Phone, Tablet, and Core products.

Codenamed "Trusty Tahr", 14.04 LTS continues Ubuntu's proud tradition
of integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a
high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.  The team has been hard at
work through this cycle, introducing new features and fixing bugs.

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS is the first long-term support release with support
for the new "arm64" architecture for 64-bit ARM systems, as well as the
"ppc64el" architecture for little-endian 64-bit POWER systems.  This
release also includes several subtle but welcome improvements to Unity,
AppArmor, and a host of other great software.

Ubuntu Server 14.04 LTS includes the Icehouse release of OpenStack,
alongside deployment and management tools that save devops teams time
when deploying distributed applications - whether on private clouds,
public clouds, x86 or ARM servers, or on developer laptops.  Several key
server technologies, from MAAS to Ceph, have been updated to new upstream
versions with a variety of new features.

The newest Kubuntu, Edubuntu, Xubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME, Ubuntu
Kylin, Mythbuntu, and Ubuntu Studio are also being released today.  More
details can be found for these at their individual release notes:

   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes#Official_flavours

Maintenance updates will be provided for 5 years for Ubuntu Desktop,
Ubuntu Server, Ubuntu Cloud, Ubuntu Core, Ubuntu Kylin, Edubuntu, and
Kubuntu.  All the remaining flavours will be supported for 3 years.

To get Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
-----------------------

In order to download Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, visit:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 12.10 and 13.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to
14.04 LTS via Update Manager shortly. Users of 12.04 LTS will be
offered the automatic upgrade when 14.04.1 LTS is released, which is
scheduled for July 24th. For further information about upgrading, see:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/upgrade

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free 
of charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats, workarounds for known issues, as well as more in-depth notes 
on the release itself. They are available at:

   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseNotes

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop
   http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/features

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug
but aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
   http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
   http://www.ubuntuforums.org
   http://askubuntu.com

Help Shape Ubuntu
-----------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list
of ways you can participate at:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases. A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a
few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical
and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our
website listed below:

   http://www.ubuntu.com

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

   http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

On behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team,
Adam Conrad
</pre>
