{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing  Ubuntu GNOME 14.04, the Trusty Tahr, for distribution in April 2014. With this early Alpha pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Ubuntu GNOME Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu GNOME Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu GNOME developers

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME 14.04 Alpha 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/trusty/alpha-1/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/trusty/alpha-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Alpha 1 Highlights ==

=== Software Updates ===

* A number of apps have now been updated to GNOME 3.10.

* GNOME Classic session is included. To try it, choose it from the Sessions option on the login screen.

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Alpha 1 Trusty Tahr snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.12.0-7.15|3.12.0.7 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.12.4.tar.bz2|v3.12.4 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>.  The 3.12 release contains improvements to the dynamic tick code, support infrastructure for DRM render nodes, TSO sizing and the FQ scheduler in the network layer, support for user namespaces in the XFS filesystem, multithreaded RAID5 in the MD subsystem, additional highlights are described <nowiki>[[https://www.linux.com/news/software/linux-kernel/746527-the-312-kernel-is-out|here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

=== Ubuntu GNOME Desktop ===

* The Accounts menu item in Empathy opens the Ubuntu Online Accounts dialog instead of the Empathy Accounts dialog. As a workaround, run ''empathy-accounts'' manually. (<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/701903|BGO:701903]]</nowiki>) 

* Partition resizing is not working in ubiquity (Bug:1260473)

* Choosing check disc for defects displays no readable text (Bug:1262841)

* nvidia-prime won't work when using gdm (Bug:1262068)

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Gnome 14.04, the Trusty Tahr is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
