{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Xubuntu 14.04 LTS ==

Xubuntu 14.04 is an LTS (Long-Term Support) release and will be supported for 3 years. The release announcement for Xubuntu 14.04 can be found at <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/news/14-04-release/]]</nowiki>.

You can download ISOs and Torrents from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/14.04/release/]]</nowiki>

=== New features, enhancements ===
* '''Light Locker''' replaces xscreensaver for screen locking
* '''Light Locker Settings''' for controlling Light Locker and screensaver preferences
* '''Mugshot''' for editing personal preferences
* '''Menu''''''Libre''' (2.0.1) for editing menus, replacing Alacarte
* '''Community wallpapers''' package
* New application versions: '''gmusicbrowser''' 1.11.1, '''Catfish''' 1.0.0, '''Parole''' 0.6, '''Xfwm''' 4.11, '''Xfdesktop''' 4.11
* The panel now supports '''GTK3 indicators''' and uses '''Whiskermenu''' as the default menu along with a new single-panel layout
* Improved documentation which is also updated to match new applications and application versions
* New artwork, themes updated to work with the latest GTK3 version, many icon theme fixes

=== Important bug fixes ===
* Removable drives and media not automatically mounted/listed (Bug:1210898)
* Parole reports "Gstreamer backend error, could not initialise supporting library" (Bug:1278089)
* Thunar not saving sidebar "places" bookmarks after exit (Bug:1280641)
* Mugshot fails at attempt to change avatar (Bug:1284720)
* xfdesktop leaking memory on wallpaper change (Bug:1295614)
 
A more exhaustive list of the most important and high-impact bug fixes can be found at <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-t-bugs]]</nowiki>.

=== Other changes ===
* IBus dropped from the default installation, see known issues
* The image viewer and organizer ''gThumb'' is dropped, '''Ristretto''' is still included for photo viewing

=== Known issues ===
As with any software and software collection, Xubuntu has some bugs and issues. These include:
* Xfce4 Power Manager does not restore screen power (Bug:1259339). You can try running <code>xrandr</code>, which has worked as a problem-free workaround for some users. Alternatively, to restore a working desktop go to TTY1 (Ctrl+Alt+F1) and restart lightdm with <code>sudo service lightdm restart</code>. '''NOTE: You will lose all unsaved work in progress!'''  It appears that all instances of this bug so far are caused by suspending by closing the laptop lid - suspending from the logout dialog works to the best of our knowledge.
* Window manager shortcut keys don't work after reboot (Bug:1292290)
* Sorting by date or name not working correctly in Ristretto (Bug:1270894)
* IBus is dropped from the default installation due to a high-influencing bug (Bug:1284635); the team looks to get this bug fixed soon and to reintroduce IBus in a future point release. If you are upgrading to 14.04 from a current version in which IBus is still installed but unused - you will need to either set-up IBus for your keyboard layout after rebooting or purge it. Alternatively purge IBus '''before''' upgrading.
* Due to the switch from xscreensaver to light-locker, some users might have issues with timing of locking; removing xscreensaver from the system should fix these problems

To see a list of known bugs in the common infrastructure, refer to the <nowiki>[[TrustyTahr-ReleaseNotes-#Known_issues|Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>.
