{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing  Edubuntu 14.04, the Trusty Tahr, for distribution in April 2014. With this early Alpha pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Eubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Edubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Edubuntu developers

== Getting Edubuntu 14.04 Alpha 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/trusty/alpha-2/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/trusty/alpha-2/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

=== Edubuntu Desktop ===

* New glib (2.39.1) causes some indicators & nautilus to not load promptly (Bug:1256961)

== Feedback ==

Development of Edubuntu 14.04, the Trusty Tahr is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/daily/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.
