{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Support lifespan ==
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki> 14.04 LTS will be supported for 3 years, like all the other official flavors of Ubuntu, while Ubuntu vanilla will be supported for 5 years.

== Get Ubuntu Studio 14.04 LTS ==

You can download ISOs from:

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/14.04/release/

=== Upgrading from a previous release ===

Upgrading is not recommended because of various bugs. One of those bugs is Bug:1284635. But, if you still prefer to perform an upgrade, follow these instructions:

To upgrade from Ubuntu Studio 13.10 using GUI tools:
* Open Software Sources.
* Press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager" (without the quotes) into the command box.
* Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '14.04 LTS' is available.
* Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.  

To upgrade from Ubuntu Studio 13.10 using CLI tools:
* Install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package if it is not already installed.
* Launch the upgrade tool with the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade</code>.
* Follow the on-screen instructions.

<<BR>>
== Feature Changes for 14.04 LTS ==

* New installer ubiquity plugin which allows you to select packages to install from our workflow metas, audio, video, graphics, photography and publishing.
* linux-lowlatency is now merged with linux-generic master branch, which means the two are almost identical feature wise. linux-lowlatency continues to be configured for preemtiveness and irq threading and depends on the rtirq script.
* EFI support
* gtk3 indicator support in the panel
* IBus was dropped (Bug:1284635)
* Speech-dispatcher and espeak were added, in addition to Orca and brltty, to further improve accessibility with braille and speech support during installation.

=== Updated Packages ===

As with every new release, packages--applications and software of all kinds--are being updated at a rapid pace. Many of these packages came from an automatic sync from <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>'s unstable branch; others have been explicitly pulled in for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.

For a list of all packages being accepted for Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, please subscribe to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/trusty-changes|trusty-changes]]</nowiki>.

=== Known issues ===
* Wrong default kb layout in login screen after installation.
* Wrong default language in session after installation (Bug:1308936)
* usb2/usb3 audio devices may perform badly (Bug:1308628)
* Xfce4 Power Manager does not restore screen power (Bug:1259339). You can try running <code>xrandr</code>, which has worked as a problem-free workaround for some users. Alternatively, to restore a working desktop go to TTY1 (Ctrl+Alt+F1) and restart lightdm with <code>sudo service lightdm restart</code>. '''NOTE: You will lose all unsaved work in progress!'''  It appears that all instances of this bug so far are caused by suspending by closing the laptop lid - suspending from the logout dialog works to the best of our knowledge.
* Window manager shortcut keys don't work after reboot (Bug:1292290)
* IBus is dropped from the default installation due to a high-influencing bug (Bug:1284635); the team looks to get this bug fixed soon and to reintroduce IBus in a future point release. If you are upgrading to 14.04 from a current version in which IBus is still installed but unused - you will need to either set-up IBus for your keyboard layout after rebooting or purge it. Alternatively purge IBus '''before''' upgrading.

To see a list of known bugs in the common infrastructure, refer to the <nowiki>[[TrustyTahr-ReleaseNotes#Known_issues|Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>.

== More information ==

==== Reporting bugs (common for all Ubuntu flavors) ====

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve the quality of future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with Ubuntu bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

==== Participate in Ubuntu Studio ====

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu Studio (no developing skills required), take a loot at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntustudio.org/contribute]]</nowiki>
