{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Location'''
| 
| Green Bay, Wisconsin, USA
|-
| ''' Time Zone'''
| 
| Central US Time
|-
| ''' Launchpad Page'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tsimonq2|~tsimonq2]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:simon@tsimonq2.net|simon at tsimonq2.net]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Ubuntu Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:tsimonq2@ubuntu.com|tsimonq2 at ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Lubuntu Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:tsimonq2@lubuntu.me|tsimonq2 at lubuntu.me]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' IRC Nick'''
| 
| tsimonq2 on Libera.chat (Other networks are listed on my Launchpad page)
|-
| ''' Twitter'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/tsimonquigley2|@tsimonquigley2]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' !GitHub '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/tsimonq2/|tsimonq2]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About me ===

I'm a 20 year old Linux enthusiast who works as a software developer at Altispeed Technologies.

=== Positions Formerly Held in the Ubuntu Community: ===

 {*} Lubuntu Release Manager

 {*} Ubuntu Core Developer

 {*} Ubuntu Member

 {*} Lubuntu Member

 {*} Debian/Ubuntu Qt Team Member

 {*} Kubuntu Member and Ninja

=== Positions Formerly Held in the Ubuntu Community: ===

 {*} Kubuntu Council Member

 {*} Ubuntu Developer Membership Board Member

 {*} Ubuntu Membership Board Member

=== Contributions ===

=== Testimonials ===

==== Please note that many of these testimonials are outdated ====

Testimonials go below:

Sign with @ SIG @ (without the spaces). Please put this after your testimonial.

----

I have had the joy of working as a mentor to Simon since his introduction to the Ubuntu community. He has been incredibly engaged and excited. He is well-organized, keeps focus, but is always exploring new avenues to contribute. Among his regular contributions, he has managed to breathe new life into his !LoCo, has been incredibly useful to the Lubuntu Team, working hand in hand with me and other team members, and has consistently contributed to Ubuntu News. Simon is a young man and his sometimes displayed a certain lack of professionalism (albeit rarely). Though this is to be expected to some degree, my observation has been that he has resiliently responded to the criticism he has been given. This is a hallmark of maturity I think many of his peers lack. I would also comment on his care for others. He has shown me many a thing that relates to my own interests, simply for the joy of making me happy. I think this is a sign of a good mentor/mentee relationship. I trust that Simon will continue to grow and will continue to make Ubuntu better. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:wxl]]</nowiki> 
Simon was very helpful to me while showing me how to contribute to the Ubuntu Newsletter. He was very friendly and nice to me in doing so. Although I didn't end up contributing, he was nice in working with me. I support his application for Ubuntu Membership. -'''<nowiki>[[Na3iL|Zoueid Naeîl]]</nowiki>''' on November 21, 2015

My last testimonial written here, now erased, was in November of 2015. From then to now, I have noticed a substantial shift in Simon's attitude towards others and the community. I have observed that he is handling himself in a far more professional manner, and has taken great strides to work well with others in the teams and tasks he's focused on. I have also personally observed his interactions with others with regards to QA, and believe he has made exceptional strides. He's made a substantial amount of contributions, and appears to make more each and every day. I think that, while Simon has some ways to go, he would be a good candidate for Ubuntu membership, provided that he continues to act in a professional manner and have positive interactions within the community.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:teward]]</nowiki> 
Simon revived the <nowiki>[[WisconsinTeam|LoCo]]</nowiki> in summer 2015 with my help and has served as the mentor for many tasks I completed in <nowiki>[[https://developers.google.com/open-source/gci/ | Google Code-in 2015]]</nowiki>. He's been a great person to work with as well as a great friend, despite being off-topic at times. I support his application for an Ubuntu membership as he is a great member of the community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:adueppen]]</nowiki> 
I've been cooperating with Simon for a while. He's proved being a very smart and adaptative guy. Despite his age, Simon is a really useful guy, having a deep knowledge of coding, bug hunting and ISO testing. I'm fully convinced he'll be a great asset, he learns fast and Linux is a passion for him. I see him testing ISOs daily at the QA group, reporting bugs and cooperating with my IRC group and a few more, spending time to solve problems. I support his membership application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rafaellaguna]]</nowiki> 

Simon has been a wonderful help to QA and an active participant in the greater community whenever there's an opportunity. I appreciate his willingness to help out with GCI, the manual tests project, and image testing. I support his application for membership.
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nskaggs]]</nowiki> 
I have only had contact with Simon in regard to community QA and the Manual Testcase project. As others have noted, in the past there were times when his professionalism might have appeared to let him down - I've seen no recurrence of that for some time now and enjoy working with him when our paths cross - which they do, frequently. In particular his work with students during the recent GCI on the QA tracker tasks was well received. His enthusiasm for pushing the QA trackers/manual testcase project is commendable. I see no reason why he shouldn't be an Ubuntu Member and support his application. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:flocculant]]</nowiki> 
Simon is greatly energized and in support of our Wisconsin Ubuntu !LoCo. He prepares, organizes, and conducts remote meetings regularly and with enthusiasm. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mikeputnam]]</nowiki> 
Simon has grown a lot in the past few months and is showing great enthusiasm and passion for what he's doing.  He first approached me about re-energizing the Wisconsin !LoCo and has since stepping into the contact/leadership role.  Together, we've worked on a few pieces, and I've passed on the torch to him.  He's working a lot with QA, is active on IRC, and our Wisconsin !LoCo.  I would absolutely recommend him as an Ubuntu Member. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:anthonyhook]]</nowiki>  - 
I'm glad to see that Simon took my advice and has now been granted an Ubuntu Membership. My only fear is that he wants to contribute to such an extent that others might think that their contributions are no longer required. I think "over-achieving" is the phrase that is currently in use.

Simon could be well one of Ubuntu's future leaders but he does need to appreciate that sometimes holding back (for a while at least) and letting others contribute is the way to go. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:PaulW2U]]</nowiki>  - 
Simon has been a lovely addition to our Kubuntu packaging team. His enthusiasm, skill and willingness to do the boring but necessary work have enlivened all of us working with him. His work in Debian getting Qt``Web``Engine out the door was of particular note, as it will allow us to continue to offer KDE PIM to our users. I'm pleased to hear that Simon wants to be a Kubuntu Member, given his loyalty and steadfast support of Lubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> 
In the relatively short time Simon has been contributing to Kubuntu directly, his boundless enthusiasm and willingness to get stuck in has already had a significant impact on the project's progress. While that energy could at times perhaps be directed a little better, that is a small matter compared to the greater picture, and will certainly come with time. Simon will no doubt go very far in Kubuntu or any project he decides he wishes to take on and progress with. Should he apply for Kubuntu membership - only a matter of time I'm sure - I would wholeheartedly recommend that he is accepted. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:acheron]]</nowiki> 
Simon generously gives his time to many projects throughout Ubuntu (as can be seen from the testimonials above) and Ubuntu MATE has found a great collaborator and friend in Simon. Simon regularly volunteers to assist the opt-in Ubuntu flavour releases for the alphas and early betas. More recently Simon has been assisting Ubuntu MATE by completing SRUs that close significant bugs affecting all desktop environments using GTK and GVFS. Most notable was landing CVE fixes for many vulnerabilities in VLC across several supported Ubuntu releases. I understand that Simon is applying to become a MoTU and I support his application as we certainly need more skilled and energetic people helping to maintain the health and integrity of the *verse repositories - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:flexiondotorg]]</nowiki> 
---- 
----
