{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Current IRC activity ===
This is a summary of what is on my <nowiki>[[TerenceSimpson|main page]]</nowiki>.
* I maintain and develop of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots|Ubottu plugins]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[UbuntuBots|Ubottu]]</nowiki>.
* We have begun the process for creating a team of developers for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots|Ubuntu IRC Bots]]</nowiki> project.
* I am an operator in the #kubuntu and #kubuntu-offtopic channels, as well as several Ubuntu IRC related channel.
* Work with <nowiki>[[LorenzoJLucchini|LjL]]</nowiki> maintaining the FloodBots in #ubuntu and #kubuntu and incorporating new features.
* Help guide new IRC operators in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-ops|#ubuntu-ops]]</nowiki>.
* Working on redesigning the <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com|web interface]]</nowiki> for ubottu, specifically with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bantrackertwo|Bantracker 2]]</nowiki> project. (<nowiki>[[Roadmaps-Lucid-IRCCouncil#line-51|Roadmap]]</nowiki>)
* Working on importing channel access lists into Launchpad. (<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/bantrackertwo/+spec/import-access-list-into-launchpad|Blueprint]]</nowiki>)

=== My feelings on the Ubuntu IRC Operators ===
I have been an Ubuntu IRC Operator for a couple of years now, and have been active on Ubuntu/Kubuntu IRC channels for about three. In that time I have seen how the operator team has grown and changed. I think on many points we are very effective, such as in the technical management of individual channels and communicating with Freenode staff. I also think that on several points we have not done so well, for instance how the operators team can be seen to have formed a clique, which is difficult to penetrate. I would very much like to address these, and other issues, because I believe that IRC is a extremely useful and social medium which brings great benefits to the Ubuntu community.

=== What I would like to see change ===
* When a new IRC operator is chosen, they should be set up with an IRC "mentor", similar to how the MOTU mentor system works.
** The mentor will be responsible for teaching the new operator the nuances of being an Ubuntu operator
** Explain exactly what is expected of them; both in technical management and in general behaviour (both on and off IRC).
** The mentor should be the first port of call when a new operator is uncertain how to act/react during IRC issues, explain the procedures we have for dealing with channel disruption and abuse
** Generally guide an operator until they both feel confident in the new operators abilities/judgement.
* Linked to the above, new operators should go through a set probation period, after which their progress and any issues should be discussed during an IRC Council meeting.
** This will give the new operator a chance to acclimatize to the new role and gain invaluable feedback.
** Allow for an official way to remove IRC Operator status from an operator who the IRC Council feels should not be an operator.
** Give new operators a milestone 
* We, as operators, tend to use scripts to help in administering the channels we operate in, these scripts are useful and we encourage them. However an IRC operator should know how to preform every action manually. Too often it seems we rely on scripts or bots to do these things for us, this is fine until they break or malfunction. A good grounding in IRC commands is essential and something I don't think we have amongst all of our operators. This includes:
** Asking ChanServ to give you +o
** Setting a relevant ban (not to wide or to narrow)
** How to find bans for a specific nick
** How to remove bans properly
** How to quiet/mute a user
** How to use /remove
* Leading on from the last point, operators in #ubuntu have become overly dependant on the FloodBots to deal with most channel issues. Recently #ubuntu was hit with a series of frequent and repeated attacks, the bots are not designed to deal with all of that and malfunctioned slightly. The bots are not designed to replace operators and so operators need to know how to actively defend a channel against an attack.
* We need a clear procedure for dealing with issues in #ubuntu-ops. Right now there is only an "unwritten" procedure, where by bans should generally only be discussed with, and lifted by, the operator who set them. The procedure include things such as:
** When/if a ban should only be remove by the operator who set it, or by any operator.
** Clearing or checking your bans regularly.
** What to do if you know you'll be away for an extended period, eg: drop an email to ubuntu-irc@
** What happens when an operator leaves or is away for an extended period, eg: who takes "ownership" of the bans
** Catalysing should always be the first method used to resolve issues. 
** When to use a quiet/mute (to provide an opportunity to talk to the user) instead of just removing.
** What should happen if a user is uncomfortable discussing the issue with the operator who banned/removed.
** How and when to report issues to network staff.
** How to react to /msg abuse, what actions can be taken.
** How and when to use forwards, rather than bans.
** Using the bantracker effectively.
** How to communicate concerns/reasons behind a ban or kick/remove via comments.
** Always comment on bans/kicks/removes/marks, having to read through a log is not quickest way to find out why the action was taken.
** Update comments as the issue progresses.
* Address some issues around the attitude of operators in #ubuntu-ops, sometimes we can seem quite dismissive when a user tries to bring an issue to our attention. We are supposed to be there to help after all.
