{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am living in Lyon, France, I have a master degree in B2B Marketing. I am 32 years old now, and try to start my own company in B2B Internet consulting (mainly professional blogs and web-marketing). My major hobbies are music and Ubuntu Studio. And I use Ubuntu Studio to make music.

I am a founder and member of Ubuntu Studio team since it started, back in 2006. I am not skilled with application development, so my main concern is to do my best to get things working: bug reporting, applications testing, hardware testing, documentation, convincing developers, etc.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| ttoine on irc.freenode.net, mainly in #ubuntustudio-devel
|-
| GTalk
| ttoine
|-
| Email
| ttoine @ ttoine.net
|-
| Website
| http://blog.ttoine.net
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== 2005-2006 - Before Ubuntu Studido ====
* I did several illustrated tutorials for Ubuntu beginners (eg: Synaptic, Xampp), hosted by Framasoft, the most important french community about free software. I was one of the moderator of the Ubuntu part of their forum at this time.
* In order to make music with Ubuntu, I was the first to host a real time kernel to allow low latency use of jackd.
* I am the co-writer of https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation and I still update it since. This is one of the core documentation for multimedia users and it used to be the basis for Ubuntu Studio.
* With other founder of Ubuntu Studio, I had a sponsorship for the UDS of november 2006 at Google headquarters. Ubuntu Studio was really started at this moment. Additionally, I had the chance to chat with L. Pottering about the importance of a pulse-audio / jack plugin.

==== Since 2007 ====
* I did all the hardware testing and reporting to fix the restricted alsa-firmware package for Ubuntu (eg: Echo and RME hdsp pci sound cards), and obtained a hosting in Medibuntu repositories.
* I continue to check that audio hardware is working well (firewire, usb, pci, pci-e) using my personal hardware and my network to get hardware. It allows me to update documentation, both with "how to get things working", and helping users to choose their hardware.
* I do presentations of Ubuntu and Ubuntu Studio in music shops, in french FLOSS fairs, workshops, install parties, and Lyon University.
* I use Ubuntu every day as my main OS since Hoary, and continue to report bug fixes when necessary. I am pleased to see that this is less and less often.
* I do a regular survey of applications and hardware available for multimedia production with Ubuntu.
* Still member of the Ubuntu Studio developer team after all these years.

=== Future Goals ===

* I would like to see Ubuntu become a real alternative to Windows and Mac osX for multimedia production.
** We have good Open Source applications at the moment: Ardour for audio, Open Shot for video, Blender for 3D.
** But this is not enough. RGB color management in Ubuntu is at its beginning. We still miss a native CMYK management for publishing (only Scribus is ready). Cups-pdf, Inkscape, Libre Office and Gimp can only be used for RGB graphics and documents.
** Imho, we need more available commercial solutions like Harrison Mixbus (audio) or Corel Aftershot Pro (graphics). Lightworks (video) seems to be on the way. And perhaps having some CAD too like Catia would be great (run on RedHat).
* Creating a community of users and developpers for Ubuntu Studio, that's why developping our "Public Relation" team is  my main goal for next monthes.
* I will continue to spend my free time in improving Ubuntu Studio, and more generally multimedia in Ubuntu. And dreaming to be paid to do that one day...

=== Testimonials ===

For the relatively short time I have known ttoine I've found him to be someone who is very active on giving opinions, suggesting improvements, and in this he inspires his team members to do well. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:zequence]]</nowiki> 
For that I only knew him in the past month, I found out that he has been a very active person to try 
help Ubuntu Studio better. I pay high respect on him since he's one of the original Ubuntu Studio devs back in when the project started. I think his membership is hard-earned (if approved).
<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:smartboyhw]]</nowiki> 