{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== January 2009 ===
==== ENIS Event 9.01 ====
In the continuation of the ENIS event 8.12 (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/TeamReporting#ENIS%20Event%208.12 |abstract]]</nowiki>), the members of the loco redo a second trip of 3 days to the National Engineering School of Sfax (ENIS). The program of these days is visible at this address (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/EventENIS9.01). During these days the LoCo members assured general presentations (ubuntu, FOSS, etc.) and targeted presentations (C programming, visualization, etc.) for public present composed mainly by students and teachers. Also workshops concerning various subjects (daily use of ubuntu, C programming, visualization, etc.) were assured by the LoCo members.
Half a day was reserved for an ubuntu 8.10 install party  where approximately hundred persons were present. Another half day was reserved for the continuation of the migration project of the ENIS Computing Center. The last two classrooms (30 PC) have been migrated to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. This makes a total of 12 classrooms of 180 PCs that have migrated from windows to ubuntu. A group of our LoCo has assured the installation and configuration of an authentication server (OpenLDAP) to centralize the management of students accounts and assure that their data and documents will be accessible from all computing center classrooms. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/ubuntu.tunisia/ENISEvent901| The photo album]]</nowiki>

{*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue128#Tunisian Team | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #128]]</nowiki>
----
Credits : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rached-aleya | Rached]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nizarus | Nizar]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-users |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
