{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== CHARTE Ubuntu-tn ==

=== A propos de ce texte ===

Ce texte a 3 objectifs:

 1. Une présentation de notre groupe pour l'état Tunisien expliquant nos objectifs et notre fonctionnement.

 1. Un rappel des règles de fonctionnement de notre groupe Ubuntu-tn pour les membres et ceux qui désirent être membres.

 1. Une présentation et réponse pour le Ubuntu Community Council pour leur montrer que nous sommes un organisme à part entière en Tunisie.

=== Spécificité pour la Tunisie ===

En Tunisie les associations sont régulées par une charte (celle-ci) ...(status ... ?)   , la nomination d'un responsable, et constitué de membres. Le depôt du dossier de la création de l'association se fait auprés du Ministère de l'Intérieur Tunisien.

TunisianTeam a l'ambition de travailler en partenariat avec le Secrétariat d'Etat de l'Informatique et des Logiciels Libres. Pour une telle collaboration, une entité légale est requise. Ce secrétariat encourage la TunisianTeam à devenir une association et propose son aide à ce propos.

=== Type d'entité légale ===
Association non-gouvernementale à but non lucratif.

 
=== Composition ===
L'association Ubuntu en Tunisie est constituée de membres:
 Toute personne est libre de s'inscrire et devenir membre a condition de:

* Payer une cotisation annuelle
* De signer le code de conduite Ubuntu.
* De supporter l'idée d'une association pour promouvoir Ubuntu en Tunisie (Le comité de direction se réserve le droit de refuser la candidature s'il s'avèez que le candidat montre une volonté de nuire aux intérêts de l'association).

  
=== Réunion générale Annuelle ===

Une fois par an une réunion générale sera tenue par tous les membres de l'association. Ils seront invités à voter. Il sera présenté lors de cette réunion les réalisations de l'année révolue et l'état des lieu laissé par le comité de direction.
Le comité de direction sera composé des coordinateurs de groupe. 
Il sera élu le prochain comité de direction ainsi que le premier responsable vis à vis de la loi tunisienne.

'''Les coordinateurs des groupes sont:'''

# <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~alibb|Ali BenBrahim]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~karim-fathallah|Karim Fathallah]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nizarus|Nizar Kerkeni]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mbubuntu|Mohamed Ben Bouzid]]</nowiki>
# <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rafik.ouerchefani|Rafik Ouerchefani]]</nowiki>

'''Les objectifs des groupes de travail sont:'''

# ...
# ...

=== Day to day management ===

Although this might not be reflected in the by-laws, we would attempt to keep much of the structure that we have now and we know works.

Among other things we would properly keep our monthly irc meetings, and make it clear that membership would not be a requirement for showing up or getting your voice heard. Also, membership would in no way be required to do work within the group.

=== Structure / Hiérarchie ===

 The structure / hierarchy would look like this:

# Annual general meeting Elects the board and sets the by-laws.
# Board Is responsible for the associations finances and taking care of running the association by the by-laws.
# Team Contact Would be elected by the board or the annual general meeting.
# Coordination group Coordinates and plans activities and IRC meetings
# VIP members Members of the LoCo Team who have been recognised for their work. Similar to Ubuntu memebership. - Not really important for the structure of the association.)
# Common members Members of the association. Membership grants right to vote at the annual general meeting.
# Non members Everyone else. Can participate in IRC meetings and all activities. Don't have the right to vote at the annual general meeting.

=== What is this page not? ===

This page is not a general guide or application for recognition from the CommunityCouncil for forming local legal entities. This page is written specifically for the TunisianTeam. However, if the CC accepts our 'application' we hope to be able to help others use what applies generally in this document to their own local situation.

=== Who do I contact? / Can I edit this document? ===

Anyone is free to edit this wiki page (under the assumption that the contribution is a positive one) - do keep in mind that this page relates to the TunisianTeam. If you want to write a general page, feel free to do so elsewhere. When / if this page is done we will be happy to help generate a general guide.
