{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== 1    Introduction ===
The main mission of Ubuntu-tn team is to spread Ubuntu use in Tunisia. To
achieve this mission, the Ubuntu LoCo team-tn organised a day at ESSEC
(Ecole Superieure des Sciences Economiques et Comemrciales). The goal of this
day was to introduce Ubuntu to teachers and students of this school.
=== 2    Event context ===
   • Event venue: ESSEC (Ecole Superieure des Sciences Economiques et
      Comemrciales). Address: 4, Abou Zakaria street, El Hafsi 1089 Mont-
      fleury, Tunis. URL: http://www.essec.rnu.tn/  <<BR>>
   • Event date: 16 April 2009 <<BR>>
   • Event time: from 16:00 to 18:00 <<BR>>
   • Event organizer: Ubuntu-tn <<BR>>
   • Number of attendees: about 7 teachers and 100 students <<BR>>
=== 3    Talks ===
==== 3.1    Introduction to Ubuntu ====
   • Presenter: Karim Fathallah <<BR>>
   • Topics: During this talk, the presenter talked about Ubuntu-tn, followed
      by Ubuntu OS and Free Open Source Softwares. <<BR>>
   • Duration: from 16:18 to 16:50 <<BR>>
   • Supported document: see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Presentations
==== 3.2    How do they earn money from open source softwares? ====
   • Presenter: Zied Alaya <<BR>>
   • Topics: The purpose of this presentation was to explain some parts of the
      economic model of Free Software and how they have become a strategic
      choice for companies and how this model allows for the dissemination and
      sharing of technologies. <<BR>>                                   
   • Duration: from 17:05 to 17:30 <<BR>>
   • Supported document: see <nowiki>[[attachment:TunisianTeam-Presentations-Logiciels Libres- c'est un bon choix.odp| Logiciels Libres- comment ils gagnent de l'argents (odp)]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
==== 3.3    Open discussion ====
   • Presenter: Wajih Letaeif <<BR>>
   • Topics: The aim of this talk was about installing some softwares under Ubuntu, installing Windows softwares under Linux followed by a discussion about use of free open sorce software vs proprietary software. During this discussion, Wajih LETAEIF did a brief presentation of VirtualBox concept, how to install it and use it. <<BR>>
   • Duration: from 17:40 to 17:50 <<BR>>
   • Supported document: see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Presentations
=== 4    Workshops ===
NO WORKSHOPS WERE PLANNED DURING THIS EVENT.
=== 5    Acknowledgements ===
A big thank to everyone who participated in this event and especially to Ms.
Lamia Enneifar, professor of computer science, who was the manager of this day.
=== 6    Press release and documents ===
Event photos: http://picasaweb.google.fr/alaya.zied/ESSEC

=== 7    Ubuntu-tn attendees ===

<nowiki>[[Zied_ALAYA|Zied ALAYA]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[KarimFathallah|Karim FATHALLAH]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[zaafouri|Chaker ZAAFOURI]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MaWaLe|Wajih LETAEIF]]</nowiki> et Mouahed NAHALI.

=== 8    Conclusion ===
This day was an opportunity for a first meeting between: Chaker Zaafouri and
Karim Fathallah; and a first meeting of: Mouahed Nahale with other members.
Karim Fathallah used the same prentation supprot of RachedTN without any
changes: not even the name of presenter! Here is an excellent example for the
respect of others work.
----
Credits : <<BR>>
Written by : <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~derwas| Wassim DERGUECH]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Added and reviewed by : <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~rached-aleya|Rached ALEYA]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Zied_ALAYA|Zied ALAYA]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-editorial| Ubuntu-tn editorial Team]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-users|ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
