{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== March 2009 ===
==== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #135 ====
{*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue135#Ubuntu%20Tunisian%20LoCo%20Team%20Events | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #135]]</nowiki>
===== Ubuntu Tunisian LoCo Team Events =====

The Tunisian Lo``Co has recently participated in 2 events.  The first was at the Faculty of Economics and Management of Sfax on March 14, 2009. Four presentations and an install fest were held that day.  The second event was held march 21, 2009 in the Youth Club of Ras El Jebel.  There they gave 2 presentations and a workshop.  This was an opportunity to meet a lot of secondary school students and explain the benefits of Ubuntu.
https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2009-March/000467.html

==== FSEGS Event 9.03 ====
This event was organized by the Future IT Club (CFI : Club des Futures Informaticiens) at the Faculty of Economics and Management of Sfax on 14th March 2009. In this day, four lectures has taken place  : the first was a presentation of ubuntu by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mawale|Wajih Letaief]]</nowiki>, the second presented the Enterprise resource planning (ERP) by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~loukil-rihab|Rihab Loukil Haddar]]</nowiki>, the third introduced the virtualzation using VirtualBox by Wajih and the fourth presentation was "IDE NetBeans 6.5 : The only IDE that you need" by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rached-aleya|Rached Aleya]]</nowiki>. A successful install party was held afternoon where we had installed Ubuntu 8.10 in more than 50 PCs and distribute more than 70 CD, it was really nice to see a lot of students and teachers coming to migrate to ubuntu. This event offered another opportunity for Tunisian people to discover a new magic OS called ”ubuntu” and allowed an excellent real life meeting between them. The day ended with a lovely surprise from the CFI club who offered us a cake on which was written ”A lot of success for UBUNTU”  (see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/EventFSEGS9.03Reporting|French report]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/En/EventFSEGS9.03Reporting|English report]]</nowiki> for more details)

==== Ras El Jebel Event 9.03 ====
21/03/2009 was an amazing day in Ras El Jebel as the Ubutu-tn LoCo Team was their to animate an Ubuntu day in collaboration with the numerical association of the village. The day was held in the Youth Club of Ras El Jebel, it was a great opportunity to introduce new users to Ubuntu and Open Source Softwares in general. There had been two conferences : the first was a presentation of ubuntu by <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~thenumber|Chourouk Lahiani]]</nowiki> and the second dealt with the virtualization using VirualBox with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rached-aleya|Rached Aleya]]</nowiki>. There was also a workshop on how to install anything in ubuntu and how to use AptOnCD animated by <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~mbubuntu|Mohamed Ben Bouzid]]</nowiki>. It was really amazing to meet a lot of secondary school pupil and students and explained them the interest of ubuntu. This day was also a special occasion to hear the story of the beginning of our Tunisian LoCo Team from M. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~karim-fathallah|Karim Fathallah]]</nowiki>, who also taked us to see some of the most beautiful places on Rafraf and Matline. (see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/EventRasJebel9.03Reporting|French report]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/En/EventRasJebel9.03Reporting|English report]]</nowiki> for more details)

----
Credits : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rached-aleya|Rached ALEYA]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-users |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
