{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

=== Introduction: ===
– we need and introduction for this event.<<BR>>
Event context: <<BR>>
Place, date, schedule, organizer, related events, public target ...:<<BR>>
Location: ISET Bizerta <<BR>>
Date: 21 May 2009 <<BR>>
Schedule: 14h <<BR>>
Target public: students' ISET <<BR>>
The organizers of the event at the ISET are Mr. Mohamed and Mr. Lassoued (STP Karim provide us  the name of the 2nd teacher).<<BR>>

=== Presentations: ===
==== Presentation: Free Software and Licenses ====
Speaker: Mr. Said Ouerghi (DFSA) <<BR>>
Subject: a presentation on the principle of Free Software licenses. <<BR>>
Time: 1h <<BR>>
Number of participants: xx <<BR>>
Link to document support (presentation)<<BR>>
==== Presentation : Ubuntu ====
Speaker: Mr. Karim FATHALLAH (Ubuntu-tn) <<BR>>
Topic: Ubuntu OS presentation. <<BR>>
Duration: 35 min <<BR>>
Number of participants: xx <<BR>>
Link to document support (presentation): Ubuntu <<BR>>
==== Presentation: How to make money with FOSS: ====
Speaker: Mr. Zied ALAYA (Ubuntu-tn) <<BR>>
Subject: How to make money with FOSS, this presentation was followed by a quick presentation on installing software under Ubuntu and using VirtualBox. <<BR>>
Duration: 30 min <<BR>>
Number of participants: xx <<BR>>
Link to document support (presentation): How to make money with FOSS<<BR>>

=== Speakers or invited teams ===
DFSA <<BR>>
Member: Dr Mohamed Said Ouerghi <<BR>>
Web link: DFSA, [http://dfsa.tuxfamily.org/] <<BR>>
Participation type: presentation on the principle of Free Software licenses. <<BR>>

=== Expenses ===
(travel, CDs, Copies, renting, ...) <<BR>>
Travel: Mohamed Zied Lassoued ALAYA recovered from Ariana around 12:30 <<BR>>
CDs: Karim Fathallah purchased a 100 free CDs for the vent. He has 6 CDs burned at home and during the presentation of Mr Said and Zied, Karim has completed burning CDs on members laptops. These CDs were distributed.

=== Sponsors: ===
ISET Bizert: presentations were followed by a 30 minutes break and distributing juices and cakes for everyone.

=== Press Release and documents ===
 
*** Karim Fathallah brought his digital camera (5 Mega pixel), but as usual Zied borrowed him batteries of his digital camera (8 Mega pixel): photos.

----
Credits : <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~hela|hela OUESLATI]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~derwas| wassim derguech]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rached-aleya|Rached ALEYA]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~inssaf|Insaf]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-editorial |ubuntu-tn editorial]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
