{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== April 2009 ===
==== Ariana Secondary School ====
Ariana Secondary School Event was an excellent opportunity to promote Ubuntu Linux among pupils and teachers in this school. Many presentations has taken place: « Ubuntu Presentation by Mr. Karim FATHALLAH », « Installing software under Ubuntu and AptOnCD presentation by Mr. Mohamed Ben Bouzid », « Introducing Wine and Sabily by Mr. Abdelmonem KOUKA », « Virtual OS Presentation by Mr. Wajih Letaief ».(see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/En/EventAriana9.04Reporting|Report(En)]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/EventAriana9.04Reporting|Report(Fr)]]</nowiki> for more details)

----
Credits : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~inssaf|Insaf]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-editorial|ubuntu-tn-editorial]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>

==== ESSEC Business School (École supérieure des sciences économiques et commerciales) ====
ESSEC event started at 16h00 on the 16th of april with Ubuntu-tn mini-team (<nowiki>[[Zied_ALAYA|Zied ALAYA]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[KarimFathallah|Karim FATHALLAH]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MaWaLe|Wajih LETAEIF]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[zaafouri|Chaker ZAAFOURI]]</nowiki> and Mouahed NAHALI).
The first presentation « Introduction to Ubuntu » made by Karim Fathallah started at 16h18 with a restricted public (only 3 teachers and 20 students), this number grows to 7 teachers and more than 100 students , the second one « how they win money with Open source software? » made by Zied ALAYA and the last one « Introduction to Virtualbox » by Wajih LETAEIF. A discussion started between our team members and our public. We closed the event at 18H00. (see <nowiki>[[hhttps:--wiki.ubuntu.com-TunisianTeam-EventESSEC9.04Reportin|Frensh report]]</nowiki> for more details.)
----
Credits : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~shelhatem|Hatem]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~derwas|Wassim DERGUECH]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-editorial| Ubuntu-tn editorial Team]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-users |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #137 ====
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue137#Ubuntu%20day%20Sidi%20Bouzid%20-%20Tunisia|Ubuntu day Sidi Bouzid - Tunisia]]</nowiki>
===== Ubuntu Tunisian LoCo Team Events =====
The Ubuntu-tn LoCo Team continues to visit various cities to present Ubuntu and free software. This time, they stopped at the Higher Institute of Technological Studies of Sidi Bouzid (ISET) in response to an invitation received from the Computer Science Department. More than 100 people turned out for the presentations, and 20 remained for an installfest of Ubuntu 8.10. The <nowiki>[[http://nizaurs.blogspot.com/2009/04/ubuntu-day-iset-of-sidi-bouzid.html|link]]</nowiki> includes even more information and pictures of the event. 
==== ISET Sidi Bouzid Event 9.04 ====
Our Ubuntu-tn LoCo Team continues to visit various cities to present Ubuntu and free software. This time (April 4th of 2009), we stopped at the Higher Institute of Technological Studies of Sidi Bouzid (ISET) in response to an invitation received from the Computer Science Department. More than 100 people turned out for the presentations (Presentation of Ubuntu: the OS, its features and variants, Ubuntu: The first steps towards the daily use, Migrating from Microsoft Office to OpenOffice.org, Virtualization with VirtualBox in Ubuntu, Economic model of SS2L, Ubuntu Server in SMEs) and 20 remained for an installfest of Ubuntu 8.10.<<BR>>
The day after and in order to combine business with pleasure, the day organisers invited our LoCo members for a hiking session to Aîn Rabaw stream where they have drawn on their artistic talents to mark their passage in such magnificent place. (see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/EventISETSBZ9.04Reporting|French report I]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/EventISETSBZ9.04ReportingCommunity|French report II]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/En/EventISETSBZ9.04Reporting|English report]]</nowiki> for more details)
----
Credits : <nowiki>[[RachedTN|Rached]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-users |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
