{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Annual Seminar on Free Software ==

Our LoCo Team was contacted by the Tunisian Ministry of Communication Technologies to see if some one from Canonical/ubuntu can be present in the 4th edition of the annual seminar on free software. It will be great if this can be possible.

=== Free software: a strong involvement of IT ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date
| Dec 16 2008 à préciser
|-
| Location
| El Ghazala Technology Center - Ariana - Tunisia
|}

Detailed document in French : <nowiki>[[attachment:seminaire_logiciel_libre9.pdf]]</nowiki>

==== Presentation ====

Within the framework of the implementation of the National Plan in the free software field, the Ministry of Communication Technologies organizes the 4th edition of the annual seminar on free software on the theme:

'''Free software: a strong involvement of IT'''

In this regard, the Ministry of Communication and Technologies, asked a few leading manufacturers and software publishers present in Tunisia (IBM, SUN, BULL, Microsoft, Novell, Oracle) to make a presentation of their open source strategy and a return of their experiences including the implementation of projects in public and private sectors.

On the other hand, this seminar will provide an opportunity to share experiences and good lessons for free software projects within the administration. Practical cases in the Tunisian and French administration will be presented to this effect.

This seminar is aimed at decision-makers and IT executives in computing, which wish to inquire on the novelties and strategic and technological orientations of software editors in the free and open source field and to benefit from experiences and instructions through practical cases of projects based on free solutions and deployed within the governmental administrations.

==== Goals ====

This seminar aims to answer several recurring questions:

*** What technological and commercial advances in Free Software can be expected for tomorrow?
*** What impact on innovation, governance, public policy, and careers in computer science?
*** How Free Software will revolutionize the local landscape of information technology?

For participants, the seminar will be the place to:

*** Identify and anticipate key trends, challenges and opportunities for the future
*** Share experiences, forecasts and best practices with experts and other participants.
*** Meet and exchange among IT leaders, architects, developers, academics and other experts.
