{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== LoCo Logo Contest 13.11 ==

We think that our current logos are quite old, so we are opening a proposal for everyone who would like to participate

We are asking you to design one logo for the '''LoCo Teams''' and one for the '''LoCo Council''', so we use that logos in all our pages/profiles and other LoCo related communications.

There are, though a couple rules to follow:

 {*} Take in account the <nowiki>[[http://design.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Brand Guideline]]</nowiki>

 {*} Provide the logo in SVG format

 {*} Proposals should contain both logos

 {*} Submissions must be made under a Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0 license with copyright assignment

Submissions through Ubuntu-TN must be sent to the mailing list if you are an Ubuntu-TN member or you can submit to an official Ubuntu-TN social media group/page and wait to see your logos and your full name on the mailing list thread.

'''Deadline for the proposals is the 20 November'''.

Votes for the best three sponsored logo proposals by Ubuntu-TN will be open from 21 to 23 November and submitted on 24 November to the LoCo Council.

Individual logo proposals to LoCo Council are still possible (<nowiki>[[http://lococouncil.ubuntu.com/2013/10/26/loco-logo-contest/|more information]]</nowiki>).

Thanks for participating, we hope to see all your designs soon!

=== Logo Proposals ===

Please leave this blank until votes are open.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 100%" rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> ID
| Member(s)
| LoCo Team (SVG Format)
| LoCo Council (SVG Format)
| Votes
|}

=== LoCo Team ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 100%" rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> ID
| Member
| Logo (SVG Format)
| Votes
|}

=== LoCo Council ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 100%" rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> ID
| Member
| Logo (SVG Format)
| Votes
|}
