{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== October 2008 ===
==== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #115 ====
{*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue115#SFD in Tunisia | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #115]]</nowiki>
===== SFD in Tunisia =====
Software Freedom Days in Tunisia was held on October 29th, 2008. It was delayed until this date because of conflicts with Ramadan. The Tunisian Team participated and hosted a booth of about 10 PCs, 2 sun servers, and 5 Sunray's. There was also a conference with the theme, "Ubuntu: the spirit, the OS and the community". The team handed out about 400 CDs, gave talks, hosted workshops, and sponsored an install party. The article, in French, can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/En/sfd08Reporting

==== Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #113 ====
{*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue113#SFD Tunisia 2008 | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #113]]</nowiki>
===== SFD Tunisia 2008 =====
This year the Tunisian Software Freedom Day 2008 will be held on October 29th in the El Ghazala technology center. The delay from September 20th is due to that date coinciding with the month of Ramadan. This will be the first public event for the newly approved Tunisian LoCo Team. They will be distributing Ubuntu CDs, holding a mini-install party, as well as other Ubuntu activities. For further information, contact the Tunisian LoCo Team: http://www.ubuntu-tn.org/

----
Credits : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~Rafik | Rafik]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nizarus | Nizar]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-users |ubuntu-tn LoCo Team]]</nowiki>
