{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - xx/xx/2010
* '''First Approval Date''' - 22/07/2008 (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/ApprovalApplication2008|here our first approval application]]</nowiki>)
* '''Team Contact''' - Zied ALAYA <zied.alaya AT ubuntu DOT com>
* '''Membership'''
** 156 Active Members on Launchpad as of 02 August 2009 (was 63 on July 2008)
** 376 people subscribed to the mailing list as of 13 July 2009 (was '''108''' in July 2008)
** '''Ubuntu Members''' - '''4 new Ubuntu Members''' since our last approval :) (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nizarus|nizarus]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~zaafouri|zaafouri]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~zied.alaya|zied.alaya]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mawale|mawale]]</nowiki>)
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-tn|ubuntu-tn on lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.
* '''Facebook page''' - <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=20980618254|Ubuntu Tunisia group]]</nowiki> with '''774 members''' as of 31 July 2010.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-tn on Freenode
* '''launchpad page''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn| ~ubuntu-tn]]</nowiki>
* '''Wiki pages''' - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam
* '''Forum''' - http://tunisie.ubuntuforums.org/
* '''LoCo Directory''' - http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-tn
* '''Best of Photos Album (2009)''' - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/BestOf

==== Events & Presentations ====
During the last two years, we focused our efforts on the presentation and promotion of ubuntu in schools and universities. Our LoCo visited different Tunisian cities to present and to talk about ubuntu and free software in general. At each visit we did some presentations, we distribute CD and we animate an install party for participants. One of our pilot project was '''the migration of the computing center of the ENIS''' (National Engineering School of Sfax), where we have installed ubuntu on '''150 PC''' ('''10 class rooms'''). Thus the majority of practical work will be done with ubuntu and with free software equivalent to proprietary software used before this migration.

'''30 event''' was held in '''9 towns''', '''18 high schools''', '''2 international event''', '''etc'''... All our events with reports, usually in French and in English (the complete report or an abstract), are grouped here : '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Events'''.

Presentations, manly in French some of them are translated in english, given by our LoCo members are grouped here : '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Presentations'''. 
There is more then '''25 presentations''' given by '''15''' ubuntu-tn members.

==== Team Reporting & UWN ====

As approved LoCo we tried as possible to write our monthly team report to be published with LoCo teams reports. Our abstracts are here : '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/TeamReports'''. <<BR>>
Our reports are grouped here : '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Events''' , here is some statistics : '''27 French "details" page''' , '''10 English "abstract" ''' , '''18 French "report" page''' and '''9 English "report" page'''.

To share our activity with the international Ubuntu community, we send many of our LoCo news to the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter :

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue137#Ubuntu%20day%20Sidi%20Bouzid%20-%20Tunisia|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #137]]</nowiki> : Ubuntu day Sidi Bouzid - Tunisia.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue135#Ubuntu%20Tunisian%20LoCo%20Team%20Events | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #135]]</nowiki> : Ubuntu Tunisian LoCo Team Events.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue128#Tunisian Team | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #128]]</nowiki> : Tunisian Team.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue123#Tunisian Team Events in December | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #123]]</nowiki> : Tunisian Team Events in December.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue115#SFD in Tunisia | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #115]]</nowiki> : SFD in Tunisia.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue113#SFD Tunisia 2008 | Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, Issue #113]]</nowiki> : SFD Tunisia 2008.

==== Classroom ====
A first classroom session was organised by our LoCo and it was maintained under the name "Introduction to Bazaar". This session was a great success in our LoCo community and in the FOSS Tunisian community. For more information : '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Classroom''' and '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Classroom/Bazaar'''

==== Artwork ====
The goal of the "Artwork" page is to gather artwork for the community side of Ubuntu-tn and ubuntu.There is about '''26 "artwork" ''' on this page where '''14''' of them were created after the first approval (22/08/2008) : '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Artwork''' , take a look and enjoy them :)

==== LoCo Team Meetings ====
A monthly meeting is generally held to discuss LoCo actions and organise our activities. When needed, a non regular meeting can be organised. For each meeting we prepare an agenda and we publish minutes. Since our approval 20 meetings were organised ('''16 regular meetings''', indicated by {*} , and '''4 non regular meetings''', indicated by /!\ ). For a full history of our meetings visit : '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Meetings/| our Meetings page]]</nowiki>'''. Agenda and minutes are in French. You can also see <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=cn2riku0hktrs807o88615v31s%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Africa/Tunis|our google agenda]]</nowiki>.

=== Roadmap ===

We want to continue our work in improvement of the Linux and Ubuntu knowledge in our universities and help the University Club of Free Software to adopt Ubuntu as default Operating System like <nowiki>[[http://blog.nizarus.org/2009/03/migration-project-national-engineering-school-of-sfax-enis|we did at ENIS (Sfax) events]]</nowiki>.

'''More activities:''' most of our activities are events. We will try to diversify our activities and get involved in other project like translation and bug declaration/test.

'''Finish our website:''' actually we have only the wiki. The wiki is good for team work but can not replace a CMS and it is difficult to understand for a simple person. We think that a website will make it easier for people to join us and for Ubuntu-tn members to participate.

ici expliqué notre structuration: groupe FF, MC, election et parler de la restructuration future (We need to keep things running, which is not easy with 14 members in the MC):

'''Reorganize our LoCo structure:'''
Since our approval, we had created a ''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Groupes|Management Committee (French)]]</nowiki>''. This committee includes 7 working groups each one is headed by a coordinator and assisted by a deputy. Candidates to the MC(Management Committee) are elected yearly by other members.

We added later the ''Freedom Fighters Group''. Members of this group have the right to vote in our public meeting. They are also members who vote the annual candidates to our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-mc| Management Committee]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/FreedomFightersGroup|Here a better description of the group]]</nowiki> (French) and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-ff|here the launchpad group]]</nowiki>.

MC(Management Committee) are persons who have to keep things running in the LoCo. And Freedom Fighters members are the most involved persons in our LoCo activities.

Since we need to keep things running, which is not easy with 14 members in the MC, we are now reorganizing our internal structure to be more effective.

We have 7 work groups, each one has its planning:

1. '''Secretary'''
** Better preparation to our irc regular meeting: prepare the Agenda, fix the hour of the meeting using polls (<nowiki>[[http://www.doodle.com/participation.html?pollId=72mmpbqac9xa5vp5|see an example]]</nowiki>)
** Writing the meeting minutes
** Find a better process to voting new FF Group candidates: FF Group is the Freedom Fighters Group, members of this group have the right to vote in our public meeting and vote the annual candidates to our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-mc| Management Committee]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/FreedomFightersGroup|Here a better description of the group]]</nowiki> (French) and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-ff|here the launchpad group]]</nowiki>.

1. '''Relationships'''

** Ensure and keep contact with the LoCoCouncil, the CommunityCouncil and other LoCo Teams.

** Arranging irc-meeting between ubuntu-tn LoCo Team members and other Ubuntu members from various Team like : ubuntuone, ubuntu-server, uwn to see how they work and also to have some nice "community" talk.

** Contact famous FLOSS community members from ubuntu, debian, Sun ... to invite them to SFD or another Tunisian FLOSS event.

** Encourage students and professionals to get involved in the ubuntu project and joined international teams or projects on LP.

1. '''Events'''

** Planning and organizing events and training workshops on Ubuntu.

** Achieving the Ubuntu install-party.

** Ensure the proper functioning of the group's activities and conduct demonstrations in good conditions. (Ensure the printing of posters, ensure the availability of material requested, ...).

** Innovate the content of each event.

1. '''Web&Tech'''

** Creating and maintaining our site.

** Setting up and management of local mirrors.

** Animation and moderation of forums and IRC channel.

** collaborate with other groups who wish to publish articles on the site.

1. '''<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-editorial|Redaction]]</nowiki>''' <<BR>><<BR>>

** FAQ's

** How To's

** Newbie documentation

** Translation import into LP

** Important documents translation

** Well-indexed wiki pages (update/clean up)

** Forum moderation and maintenance when needed

** Three languages pack (en/fr/ar) translation for wikis

** Reports review and validation accordingly to the approved template

** Efficient usability of LP features for work collaboration and info sharing

** New classroom sessions' (pre/post)arrangement on ''#ubuntu-tn-classroom'' <<BR>><<BR>>

 {i} This is an "in progress" roadmap for Redaction team: Note that mention of a <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn-editorial|featured idea]]</nowiki> or the above todo list does not guarantee that it will be fulfilled, these are goals, not promises :-)

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
