{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 15/09/2015
* '''Previews Approvals''' - 2008 (<nowiki>[[..-ApprovalApplication2008|first approval application]]</nowiki>); 2010 (<nowiki>[[..-ApprovalApplication|ReApprovalApplication]]</nowiki>); 2013 (<nowiki>[[..-ReApprovalApplication2013|ReApprovalApplication2013]]</nowiki>)
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[elacheche|El Acheche Anis]]</nowiki> < elacheche[AT]ubuntu[DOT]com >
* '''Membership'''
** 80 Active Members on Launchpad as of 11 August 2015
** 869 people subscribed to the mailing list as of 01 September 2015
** '''7 Ubuntu Members''' - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nizarus]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:zied.alaya]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mawale]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ahmed.sghaier]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:elacheche]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:hammouda-mariam]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:d4rk-5c0rp]]</nowiki>
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-tn|ubuntu-tn on lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-tn on Freenode
* '''launchpad page''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn| ~ubuntu-tn]]</nowiki>
* '''Wiki pages''' - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam
* '''LoCo Directory''' - http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-tn
* '''Team Reports''' - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/TeamReports
* '''Best of - Photos Album''' - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/BestOf
* '''Facebook page''' - <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/UbuntuTunisie?ref=hl|Ubuntu Tunisie]]</nowiki> with '''3,456 members''' as of 11 August 2015. (1.5 times the number during our last reapproval)
* '''Facebook Community''' - <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntu.tn|Ubuntu Tunisia]]</nowiki> with '''11,298 members''' as of 11 August 2015. (More than '''four''' times the number during our last reapproval)

=== Roadmap ===

* ''Supporting all the Tunisian FLOSS community''
* ''Help organizing Software Freedom Day 2015''
* ''Ubuntu Release Parties''
* ''Ubuntu-tn classrooms'' - Get back to have some irc classrooms, including cli 101 and Golbal Jam oriented classrooms.
* ''Ubuntu Global Jam'' - We are planning more advanced contributions in larger number of participants for next Ubuntu Global Jams as the team members now have more technical experience with packaging and bug triagging activities. Our next challenge is to actually have some involved in each Ubuntu development cycle.
* ''IRL National Meeting'' - Our community is in need of a new national meeting to reactivate members in most of the cities and increase the number of new active members. This is planned for the next two to three months.
* ''Universities events'' - Making contact with the new peoples who are running FLOSS clubs in universities to have Ubuntu-tn event in those universities.
* ''Increase active FF members'' - FF members are the heart of our team! they are the members who do most of the job and make the community more active and productive. We have been already working on increasing the number of this team members and we are planning to reach at least twice the number of Current FF members before 2014.
* ''More cooperation with other communities'' - More cooperation with other teams and communities from other countries like Ubuntu Africa and the whole International community.
* ''Make use and cleanup the community resources'' - Clean up our Wiki by removing or archiving the old pages, use LP, LoCo Dir, ML and IRC more often to keep tracks of the community activities.
* ''Teach community active members to work on our main resources'' - ML, irc, Wiki, LP, LoCo Dir.
* ''Website'' - Create a showcase website, it should be user friendly and only have information about the LoCo, try to push community to contribute to it via <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tn/ubuntu-tn/website|LP]]</nowiki>.

=== Experience ===

October 2015 '''(Soon)'''
* ''SFD 2015''
* ''JLLFST'' - Join the celebration of the 11th anniversary of FOSS club of FST (CLLFST)
* ''FSF Anniversary'' - Join the community during the celebration 30th anniversary of FSF at EPISousse
* ''LibreOffice Training'' - LO training for school kids after a request from JCI Rades.

September 2015
* ''Ubuntu-tn @ExpressFm'' - Talk about the LoCo on a famous Tunisian Radio show about IT - <nowiki>[[https://soundcloud.com/elacheche/elacheche_at_expressfm|Link]]</nowiki>
* ''SFD 2015 Preparations'' - Contribute to the SFD 2015 preparations.
* ''LibreOffice Training'' - Plan a LO training for school kids after a request from JCI Rades

Juin 2015
* ''IRC Meeting'' - An IRC meeting to try to get people to contribute and be envolving in the community

February 2015
* ''RMS Talk'' - Community was present during RMS talk at Sousse about « Copyright vs Community »

January 2015
* ''Install Parties'' - Help Drupal Tunisia with Install parties workshops during their events
* ''EFD 2015'' - LoCo was present during the Education Freedom Day 2015
December 2014
* ''ESSTHSi 14.12'' - Ubuntu-tn Event at ECOLE SUPERIEURE DES SCIENCES ET DE TECHNOLOGIE DE HAMMAM SOUSSE

November 2014
* ''Prepare for ESSTHS and Supcom Events'' - Events discussions and preparations

October 2014
* ''ISSATSo 14.10'' - Ubuntu-tn Event at ISSAT Sousse
* ''SFD 2014'' - Help organize and be present during the SFD, with a talk about Ubuntu Touch

September 2014
* ''Ubuntu 14.10 Wallpaper Contest'' - Ubuntu-tn member is one of the Ubuntu 14.10 Wallpaper Contest winners (main wallpaper)

May 2014
* ''ISETK 14.05'' - Ubuntu-tn Event at ISET Kairouan

April 2014
* ''UGJ 14.04'' - UGJ 14.04 at ISET Mahdia
* ''ENISo 14.04'' - Ubuntu Touch orented event
* ''Event JCERTIF'' - Participation in the international conference JCERTIF Tunisia at "National Engineering School of Sousse"

February 2014
* ''ISSATSo 14.02'' - Ubuntu-tn Event at ISSAT Sousse

January 2014
* ''EFD 2014'' - LoCo was present during the Education Freedom Day 2014
* ''Cloud computing et cyber security WORKSHOP'' - Workshop Cloud computing et cyber security at ENISo

November 2013
* ''Mesh Sayada'' - Contribute to the planification and the installation of a Mesh Network at Sayada city, event organized by CLibre Association and Open Technology Institut
* ''National Free Software Event'' - Participation in the National Free Software Conference 2013

October 2013
* ''SFD 2013'' - Help organize and be present during the SFD
* ''Ubuntu/Drupal Install Party'' - An event with a collaboration with Drupal-tn

September 2013
* ''GNU30'' - An event to celebrate GNU's 30th anniversary organized by the club ESPRIT LIBRE during 3 days.
* ''Ubuntu Training'' - A LoCo member ensured a training for an association based on the ubuntu-manual.org
* ''Jaridaty Event'' - Present Ubuntu during a citizen journalism event
* ''UGJ 13.09'' - UGJ 13.09 at ISETSbz

=== Achivements ===

* ''Activity diversity'' - The team was able to introduce new types of activities such as release parties, Ubuntu Global Jam and new National and International events.
* ''Supporting other FLOSS clubs and communities'' - During last years we have supported the launch of many new FLOSS club around the country and worked and collaborated with other clubs and communities.
* ''Ubuntu-TN website'' - The community managed to finish Ubuntu-TN website and managed to sponsor the domain name and web host. Yet the website is still in beta testing and new improvements would be expected.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
