{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The foundation of Ubuntu Turkey roots back to the final quarter of year 2005, while Ubuntu Turkey as of today has reunited on the first quarter of February, 2008.

As the Ubuntu Turkey family, we have come together and revived the forum on 2008. We have made a lot of progress since then; the forum has flourished by leaps and bounds, and is now on the verge of 3000 users. Hearing the needs of our members, we have subsequently initiated our Wiki project. 
Then, we have turned our attention to a brand new Turkish E-Magazine, which would cover Ubuntu based news and articles, software guides and tutorials. Our first issue, released recently, has been welcomed with praises by the local IT world and has become a source of pride for us all. Consequently, there are now volunteer teams such as the E-Zine team, translation team, Wiki team, Full Circle Magazine localization team, altogether working actively under the Ubuntu Turkey shelter.

=== Key Details ===
* Team established on 2005
* '''Team Contact''' : <nowiki>[[SerkanCalis|Serkan Calis]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[Tansel|| Tansel Tanyel]]</nowiki> 
* '''Launchpad''' : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tr|Ubuntu Turkey]]</nowiki>

=== Resources ===

* '''Website''' : http://www.ubuntu-tr.net
* '''Forum''': http://forum.ubuntu-tr.net
* '''Wiki''': http://wiki.ubuntu-tr.net
* '''Monthly E-zine''': http://sudo.ubuntu-tr.net
* '''Planet''' : http://gezegen.ubuntu-tr.net
* '''IRC''' : #ubuntu-tr on Freenode
* '''Cd's Distribuition''' : http://wiki.ubuntu-tr.net/index.php/Ubuntu_CD_Temini
* '''Translation''' : https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tr-turkcelestirme-takimi

=== Membership ===

* Forum : 9.860 members, 19.180 topics 227.197 messages.
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-tr/+members|159 members]]</nowiki>
