{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello everybody,

My personal website can be found at: <<BR>>
http://www.tuxcrafter.net

-- -- -- -- -- --

The GNU Operating System                              (http://www.gnu.org) <<BR>>
Free Software Foundation Europe                       (http://fsfeurope.org) <<BR>>
Join the Fellowship and protect your freedom!         (http://www.fsfe.org) <<BR>>

I support a list of HOW TO's to get some things done with more ease. I do a lot of bash based scripting and I am working to become a MOTU and Debian Package Maintainer. I am also a FLOSS ambassador in The Netherlands (Free Libre Open Source Software)

Please give me feedback about my work, so I can continuously keep improving it.

-- -- -- -- -- --

These scripts have both community support and commercial support.

Please post all your feedback about the scripts so I can continuously keep improving then.

I hope these scripts help a lot of people!

HOW TO: Compiling and Installing the OpenChrome Graphical VIA Driver <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=485646 <<BR>>

HOW TO: Installation of the SCR335 smartcard reader <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=589625 <<BR>>

HOW TO: Installation of hellanzb NZB usenet downloader <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=589618 <<BR>>

HOW TO: Installation of lib-xine based multimedia codecs <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=589655 <<BR>>

HOW TO: Installation of a complete vmware server setup <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=589638 <<BR>>

HOW TO: Setting up xfce xft font rendering settings <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=589593 <<BR>>

HOW TO: Setting up xorg LCD 96 DPI native monitor settings <<BR>>
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=589574 <<BR>>
