{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I’m mostly known as "tuxifreund" in the internet and I’m from Southern Germany. After I got an own computer, I installed Xubuntu, because I didn’t like the preinstalled system and Ubuntu looked was a good alternative.
Since that time I’m using Ubuntu as operating system and I’m proud to take part in this community. I soon started to help in German community bulletin board ubuntuusers.de and later started helping translating Ubuntu.

I’m still using Xfce everywhere even if I’m no longer using Ubuntu on all my machines depending on their usecases.

=== Languages ===

* German (my mother language)
* English
* a little bit:
** French

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| tuxifreund on Libera and several others
|-
| EMail
| kaiser.barbarossa@yandex.com
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tuxifreund|tuxifreund]]</nowiki>
|-
| ubuntuusers.de Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuusers.de/user/tuxifreund]]</nowiki>
|-
| GnuPG fingerprint
| DC81 8805 C875 64E4 451C 7129 6C33 F66F 3219 82A4
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== 2022 ====

* supporting at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuusers.de|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki> (and in IRC)
* helping translating Ubuntu into German
* co-writer of the UWR ("Ubuntu-Wochenrückblick" - German UWN) on <nowiki>[[https://ikhaya.ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki> together with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~torsten.franz|Torsten Franz]]</nowiki>
* since Januar: one of three project leaders at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuusers.de|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>
* member of ubuntuusers.de-wiki-team and supporter-team

==== 2021 ====

* supporting at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuusers.de|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki> (and in IRC)
* helping translating Ubuntu into German
* write articles about Ubuntu and Linux on <nowiki>[[https://ikhaya.ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>
* co-writer of the UWR ("Ubuntu-Wochenrückblick" - German UWN) on <nowiki>[[https://ikhaya.ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki> together with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~torsten.franz|Torsten Franz]]</nowiki> (writing started in December 2020, but first UWR was published in 2021)
* Januar: become member of the supporter team on <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuusers.de|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>
* member of the ubuntuusers.de-wiki-team

==== 2020 ====

* Become member of ubuntuusers.de-wiki-team
* supporting at <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuusers.de|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki> (and in IRC)
* spring: Installed Ubuntu ;)

=== Future Goals ===

* I showing people that Ubuntu is more than a operating system, it is a philosophy
* continue to support at ubuntuusers.de
* continue writing articles about Ubuntu and Linux in general
* continue helping translating Ubuntu
* showing Ubuntu at events
* fixing bugs in Ubuntu

'''=>''' contribute my part to Bug #1 ;)

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
