{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:center; font-size: 0.80em; border: solid; width: 100%; background-color: #C8C8C8 ; font-weight: bold;"> {*} <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam|Arizona Team]]</nowiki><<BR>>
| {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=209|Forums]]</nowiki>
| {*} <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az|Mailing List]]</nowiki> <<BR>>(<nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-az/|archives]]</nowiki>)
| {*} #ubuntu-arizona <<BR>>(<nowiki>[[http://azloco.com/~ircstats/|stats ]]</nowiki>)
| {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-arizona/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
| {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/ubuntu_arizona/|Store]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {{http://ubuntuone.com/2woKYQlVl9cVSLHcR2SWAO|alt personal photo|width=200 height=300}}
| {{http://ubuntuone.com/51OzNNg88rnWjJ5DXwV7hp|alt AzLoCo Black Banner}}
|}

=== Jason Mann ( TuxMann ) ===
------
Hello all,
I'm a Phoenician in my 30s who's interested in computers, electronics & photography. I began using Ubuntu when I was thinking of upgrading from Vista to Windows 7. It was $120 to upgrade to Seven & I thought that was way too expensive just to upgrade. I reinstalled Vista from the Windows 7 RC that I had & dual booted with Jaunty Jackalope or Karmic Koala as my first Ubuntu release. I continued to dualboot and gradually moved towards Ubuntu as my daily driver. I remember the previous minor experiences with Linux back in 2003 & 2004 when some of the users would tell newbies that they need to RTFM which made the learning curve difficult for those who needed assistance. I've tried nearly all of the *buntu since I got my feet wet with Ubuntu in 2009. I was always incredibly impressed by the Ubuntu Forums area that was easy to search & those that helped were always friendly & were happy to guide people through the process of fixing problems people had. I'm proud to be part of the Hottest LoCo on Earth and help introduce people to Linux: the Arizona LoCo Team. I'm thankful that Todd Cole & Larry Thiel have been consistently hosting the installfests & allowing me to assist people that come in needing Ubuntu installed on their PCs. This spirit of giving has prompted me to give back in any way I can, so here I am.

=== Contact Me ===
-----
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C8C8C8> IRC
| TuxMann
|-
| <#C8C8C8> E-mail
| TuxMann@azloco.com
|-
| <#C8C8C8> Goolge+
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/100140778745243601369|Jason+]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#C8C8C8> Goolge+
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/111285361198176059670|AzLoCo+]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===
-----
 {*} Participation with the AzLoCo installfests since 

 {*} Weekly IRC meetings

 {*} Manager and daily contributor to AzLoCo Google+ page 

 {*} Help answer questions at irc.freenode.org #Ubunutu-Us-Az

 {*} Promote the use of Ubuntu to family & friends

 {*} Operate as a stand in to lead the weekly AzLoCo IRC meetings

 {OK} Always looking for more ways to participate...
 
=== Interests ===
-----
 {*} '''scripting''' - bash, sh, python

 {*} '''servers''' - for the home

 {*} '''electronics''' - hardware, firmware, jtag

=== Short Term Goals ===

* Become an Ubuntu Member 

* Help increase the AZ LoCo contribute locally and to the Ubuntu Community - Ongoing.

=== Future Goals ===
-----
* My Long Term Goals - ongoing

* Continue to promote Ubuntu and Open Source wherever I can

* Help AZ LoCo expand to educate the public about the benefits of Ubuntu Linux.

* Find better ways to advertise Installfests so our team can better benefit from Ubuntu Linux.

* Continue to increase communications between Linux User's Groups statewide as many members use Ubuntu. This should help grow the AZ LoCo.

* Always live by the Ubuntu Code of Conduct

* Improve on Launchpad Karma

** give people an easy way to contribute to the LoCo

* Venture to some more of the Arizona State events centered around Linux

* Lean more Ubuntu Server Security

* Participate with a hackfest/"bug bounty"

=== Testimonials ===
-----
I am always looking for testimonials. If you know me and would like to write something about how I've helped you or if you have seen me help someone, please send me an email tuxmann@azloco.com or leave me a comment here!

----
ArizonaTeam
