{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

I have been using Ubuntu for past few months. I started with Fedora and switched to Ubuntu since Hardy. I have joined <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> as a member since March 2009. Initially I had joined to find the solutions of some problems I was facing with Ubuntu and then gradually started to contribute by posting in threads. 

I have recently joined Beginners Team as a padawan and intend to join the team as a member in near future. 

==== A Few Links ====
{*} Ubuntu Forums : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=795424|_Purple_]]</nowiki> 

{*} Launchpad     : <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tux-purple|TuxPurple]]</nowiki> 

{*} IRC           : TuxPurple on irc.freenode.net 

 
=== Participation ===

==== Ubuntu Forums ====

I try to help in Ubuntu Forums by replying to the posts based on my knowledge. As I have been using Ubuntu only for few months, mostly I tend to post in the Absolute Beginners and General Forums and sometimes in the Programming Talk.

==== IRC ====
I frequent some IRC channels. Being active in IRC gives me the chance to learn more. I also try to help people according to my ability. You can find me in the following channels:

{*}  #ubuntuforums-beginners

{*}  #ubuntuforums

{*}  ##beginners-help

=== Future Hopes ===
I look forward to joining Beginners Team as member. I am planning to join some Focus Groups to be more active in Ubuntu Community. I have signed the CoC of Ubuntero and I intend to go for Ubuntu membership someday.
