{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== WARNING ==
{X} ''''' READ THIS FIRST ''''' {X}

''''' THIS IS AN INCOMPLETE DRAFT. '''''

''''' I CANNOT RECOMMEND TO FOLLOW THIS APPROACH UNLESS YOU CAN SAFELY BRICK YOUR DEVICE '''''

''''' NO ONE BUT YOU CAN BE HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR BRICKED DEVICES AS A RESULT OF FOLLOWING THIS APPROACH. '''''

This said, if you can safely brick your device, feel free to contact me directly to discuss more details.

-----

== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[https://www.insyde.com/|Insyde Software]]</nowiki> is one of the companies producing mainboard firmware development frameworks, which are licensed by mainboard hardware manufacturers to produce firmware for a given mainboard model.

== Hardware using Insyde firmware ==

The following mainboard and laptop vendors are known to (not necessarily exclusively) use Insyde mainboard (UEFI) firmware:

* Acer
* HP
* Lenovo
* Toshiba
* Udoo

To verify that a mainboard uses an Insyde firmware, run:
<pre>
sudo dmidecode | grep -i insyde
</pre>

== Upgrading Insyde firmware ==

Unfortunately, to date, most companies selling hardware with Insyde firmware, only provide a firmware upgrade path for the 'InsydeH2O UEFI BIOS' for the Windows platform. I.e. neither MS-DOS nor UEFI nor Linux upgrade methods are supported by them.

As a result, '''alternative firmware upgrade approaches''', such as those discussed here, '''will void warranty'''.

== Requirements ==

* The hardware model (and hardware revision, if any) specific firmware upgrade files, as provided by your mainboard / laptop vendor, in their support area, for your hardware model. These consist of two files:
** `platform.ini`
** A file with (usually) a `.FD` file extension, containing the actual firmware wrapped in an MS-DOS executable
* A copy of the `isfl_drv.c` / `isfl.h` <nowiki>[[https://github.com/tomreyn/isfl/|Linux module source code]]</nowiki>
* A copy of `H2OFFT-Lx64`, the Insyde Software Linux amd64 platform flash utility, which was released at the same time or later than the firmware file
* A copy of the configuration files `platform.ini`, `message.ini`, `command.ini`, usually provided with the flash utility.

The latter two are not available as a free download from Insyde Software. but included in mainboard firmware upgrades from Linux friendly hardware vendors. At the time of writing, a recent copy is available in the <nowiki>[[https://www.udoo.org/docs-x86/Advanced_Topics/UEFI_update.html|UDOO UEFI BIOS + and Update Utility]]</nowiki>.

== Carrying out the upgrade ==

''This paragraph is yet to be written.''

== See Also ==

* <nowiki>[[BIOSUpdate]]</nowiki>

== External Links ==

* https://fwupd.org/ - fwupd, LVFS, a new vendor firmware upgrade method for Linux
----
CategoryHardware
