{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Before You Start ===
* Information on this page relates to Ubuntu-supplied and -supported builds of the Mozilla Firefox browser, i.e. the '''firefox''' package in the Ubuntu repositories. It assumes the use of the <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware| package management tools]]</nowiki> to install or update plugins. If you are using other, unsupported versions of Mozilla Firefox and would like to install or update plugins, see the <nowiki>[[http://plugindoc.mozdev.org/|Mozilla Browser Plugin Support Documentation]]</nowiki>.
* You must have <nowiki>[[RootSudo| administrative privileges]]</nowiki> to install packages.
* Make sure you have enabled the <nowiki>[[AddingRepositoriesHowto| Universe and Multiverse repositories]]</nowiki>. See <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu| Managing Repositories with Ubuntu]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[Repositories-Kubuntu| Kubuntu]]</nowiki> for help with this.
* See <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware#head-82ee502162e81ddca57bfba9281ad97c39fd7fbe| Installing Software]]</nowiki> for help with installing packages.<<BR>>

=== Flash ===
For instructions on how to install the Flash plugin, see the <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats#head-c268ba69c6b38af1dc31ea09701c7d296cf971c3| Flash section]]</nowiki> on the Restricted Formats page.

=== Java ===
For instructions on how to install the Java plugin for Firefox, see <nowiki>[[Java]]</nowiki>.

=== Adobe Reader ===
For instructions on how to install Adobe Reader plugin for Firefox, see the <nowiki>[[AcrobatHowTo| Adobe Reader]]</nowiki> wiki page.

=== Real Player ===
For instructions on how to install the Real Player plugin for Firefox, see the <nowiki>[[RealplayerInstallationMethods|RealPlayer page]]</nowiki>.

=== Totem Plugin ===
<nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications#head-94cec33eee8ef46857b3f9c873bf978aeeb1e199| Totem]]</nowiki>, Ubuntu's default video player, supports both the <nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications#head-9c497602a3687a126b048cf7c61471e8024ab3e8| gstreamer (default) and xine multimedia frameworks]]</nowiki>.
* On 6.06 LTS (Dapper), the plugin depends on the multimedia framework you use. If you use '''totem-gstreamer''' (the version of Totem that uses the gstreamer back-end), install the '''totem-gstreamer-firefox-plugin''' package. If you use '''totem-xine''', you should install the '''totem-xine-firefox-plugin''' package.
* On 6.10 (Edgy), simply install the '''totem-mozilla''' package. 

'''Note:''' The current version of the Totem plugin that handles real media files is not functional. To make Real''''''Player take over the handling of real media files, follow the instructions in the <nowiki>[[RealplayerInstallationMethods#head-02313c026706d5aca8b8b8f2a8a93e02727a1697| RealPlayer and Firefox 2]]</nowiki> section on the <nowiki>[[RealplayerInstallationMethods| RealPlayer wiki page]]</nowiki>. 

=== MPlayer Plugin ===
The <nowiki>[[MPlayer]]</nowiki> media player is not installed by default on Ubuntu Linux. For 6.06 LTS (Dapper) and 6.10 (Edgy), simply install the '''mplayer''' package from the multiverse repositories. For users of 5.10 (Breezy) and earlier, see <nowiki>[[MPlayer-Breezy| MPlayer for Breezy]]</nowiki>. Once you have set up and configured mplayer, add the plugin to Firefox by installing the '''mozilla-mplayer''' package.

'''Note:''' If your country's laws allow you to use <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats#head-68524fab57e2285050069d6845f95415f8ec8404| w32codecs]]</nowiki>, installing that package is highly recommended. See the <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats#head-6c942d1939d97331f96e42b63774003fde7daed5| w32codecs section]]</nowiki> on the Restricted Formats wiki page for details.

=== How do I install other plugins? ===
See the <nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications| wiki page]]</nowiki> for the media player you are interested in. <nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats| The Restricted Formats wiki page]]</nowiki> offers a comprehensive discussion of proprietary multimedia file formats on (K)Ubuntu Linux. General information about installing other browser plugins is available at <nowiki>[[http://plugindoc.mozdev.org/linux.html|PluginDoc for Linux (x86)]]</nowiki>. 

=== Troubleshooting ===
* ''How can I check which plugins are currently installed? - How can I verify that plugin x for Firefox is properly installed?''
 
** Enter '''about:plugins''' into the Firefox adress bar. You should now see a list of installed plugins along with some additional information (the plugin's file name, a brief description of its functionality and the associated MIME types).

* ''The plugins page only shows me the name of the plugin. How can I make it show the plugin's location in the file system?''

** Enter '''about:config''' into the Firefox address bar. You will see a large list of configurable options for the Firefox browser. In the search bar, search for an entry named '''plugin.expose_full_path''' and set its value to '''true'''. Enter '''about:plugins''' into the browser adress bar. You should now see a list of installed plugins along with some additional information and their locations in the file system.

=== See also ===
<nowiki>[[http://plugindoc.mozdev.org/linux.html|Mozilla Plugin Support on Linux x86]]</nowiki> and  <nowiki>[[http://plugindoc.mozdev.org/linux-amd64.html|x86-64 platforms]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://plugindoc.mozdev.org/faqs/distronotes/ubuntu-x86.html|Firefox distribution notes, Ubuntu Linux (x86)]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[RestrictedFormats| The Restricted Formats wiki page]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[MultimediaApplications| Multimedia Applications on Ubuntu Linux]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[RealplayerInstallationMethods| RealPlayer wiki page]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[MPlayer| MPlayer wiki page]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[Java| Installing Free Java or Sun Java on Ubuntu Linux]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Changing_media_handling_behaviour|MozillaZine Knowledge Base: Changing Media Handling Behaviour]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.w3schools.com/media/media_mimeref.asp|A multimedia MIME type reference]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryInternet
