{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The ''Firefox Web Browser'' has many features and settings which you may not know about, but which you might find very useful. This page provides a list of tips and tricks for users of Firefox.

=== Navigating Documents ===
* Press ''Ctrl'' + ''F'' to display the page search bar. This allows you to type parts of words and find them in the current page.

=== Shortcuts ===
* Press ''Ctrl'' + ''T'' to open a new tab.
* Press ''Ctrl''+ ''Shift''+ ''T'' to reopen a tab you just closed by mistake.
* Press ''Ctrl'' + ''H'' to show your browsing history.
* Press ''Ctrl'' + ''K'' to select the web search box.
* Hold the ''Ctrl'' key and scroll up or down with your mouse wheel to increase or decrease the size of text.

=== Useful Add-ons ===
* '''Adblock''' - Allows you to hide advertising on web pages.
* '''Web Developer''' - Essential extension for web developers, which allows you to edit the CSS of a page and run validation checks, amongst other things.

=== Speeding up Firefox ===
Here are five steps for speeding up Firefox.
1. In your address bar, type <code>about:config</code> and press ''return''.
** Set ''network.dns.disableIPv6'' to ''true''
** Set ''network.http.pipelining'' to ''true''
** Set ''network.http.pipelining.maxrequests'' to ''8''
** Set ''network.http.proxy.pipelining'' to ''true''

=== Running An Instance Of Firefox On Each Monitor Of A Dual Monitor Setup ===
1. Close all Firefox windows and run the following on your terminal:
    ''firefox -ProfileManager''
2. Create a new profile, say ''Second Screen''. Keep the checkbox ''Don’t ask on startup'' selected and click ''Exit''.
3. On your secondary monitor, modify the Firefox launcher by right clicking on the icon on your Panel and selecting ''Properties''. Change the ''Command'' to:
    ''firefox %u -p SecondScreen''
4. That’s it. Enjoy independently configurable Firefox on both screens now!

=== Creating Mandatory Preferences for Firefox ===
* FirefoxMandatoryPreferences

----
CategoryInternet
