{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What's FirstClass Client? ==

FirstClass is an email client targeted at schools and businesses. Chances are if you are even reading this page, you know what FirstClass is and use it at your workplace or school.

== Installing FirstClass - Terminal Style ==

Paste these two commands in <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal#head-2fa31364ee2acb07982a2fd5f52c983130565f8f|the terminal]]</nowiki>
<pre>
wget -c http://www3.firstclass.com/ClientDownloads/FC83ClientDownloadFiles/fcc-8.315-2-Linux-i686.deb
sudo dpkg -i fcc-8.315-2-Linux-i686.deb
sudo ln -s /opt/firstclass/fcc /usr/bin/fcc
</pre>

== Installing FirstClass - Graphical Style ==

Download <nowiki>[[http://www3.firstclass.com/ClientDownloads/FC83ClientDownloadFiles/fcc-8.315-2-Linux-i686.deb|the Debian package]]</nowiki> from FirstClass' website. Then double-click it.

There should be a launcher for it in your applications menu, but you won't have a direct command to launch the application unless you specify the full path to the executable: /opt/firstclass/fcc

----

== Installing FirstClass - x86_64 ==

You have two options: use the i686 Debian package or use WINE to run the Windows version. I recommend the latter if you already have WINE installed and/or have a fast internet connection, as the Linux version is a bit older and has a memory deallocation bug. Also, the Windows version is available in several different languages. 
=== Windows Version (Using WINE) ===
If you do not have WINE installed, there is a pre-built .deb package available. It is a fairly large download (>50MB) if you have a slow internet connection.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install wine
</pre>
Download FCC here <nowiki>[[http://www3.firstclass.com/Divisions/FAV13-0024FC95/?Plugin=FC&OpenItemURL=S047C50E4|Select your language]]</nowiki>
Save the file to your Desktop (~/Desktop) and double-click to install it.

=== Native Linux Version ===
Download <nowiki>[[http://www3.firstclass.com/ClientDownloads/FC83ClientDownloadFiles/fcc-8.315-2-Linux-i686.deb|the .deb package]]</nowiki> to your /home folder (~/). Download and install this excellent utility named <nowiki>[[http://www.boundlesssupremacy.com/Cappy/getlibs/getlibs-all.deb|getlibs]]</nowiki>.
Next, open a terminal and use the following commands:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install ia32-libs
sudo getlibs -p libqt3-mt libjpeg62 libartsc0 libaudio2 libpng12-0
sudo dpkg -i --force-architecture fcc-8.315-2-Linux-i686
</pre>
You can launch FirstClass by using the Applications -> Internet menu. The command to create a launcher is
<pre>
/opt/firstclass/fcc
</pre>
----
Categories: CategoryEmail
