{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

Floppy drives are not automatically recognized in 8.10 so the module has to be manually added.

== Enable the module ==
=== MS-DOS Floppies ===
1. Open a terminal and enter the following:
<pre>
gksu gedit /etc/modules
</pre>
2. Add the line:
<pre>
floppy
</pre>
3. Save the file and reboot Ubuntu

=== Ext2 Floppies ===
1. Open a terminal and enter the following:
<pre>
gksu gedit /etc/modules
</pre>
2. Add the line:
<pre>
floppy
</pre>
3. Save the file.

== Create the floppy device file ==
Open a terminal and enter the following commands:
<pre>
sudo mkdir floppy0
sudo chmod g+rwx floppy0
sudo chmod o-rx floppy0
sudo modprobe floppy
sudo mount /dev/fd0 floppy0
</pre>

== Install floppy utilities ==
Open a terminal and enter the following command:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install fdflush fdutils
</pre>

Reboot Ubuntu.

== Working with floppies ==
=== Format ===
Open a terminal and type:
<pre>
sudo gfloppy
</pre>

=== Mount ===
To mount floppy:
1. Open Nautilus
2. Right Click on Floppy Drive -> Mount Volume in Nautilus (File Browser).   

== Thanks ==
Page created in reference to Bug #330314. Based on guide provided by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~miketan63|miketan63]]</nowiki>
