{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Before starting. ==

Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | release notes for Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

'''From 19.10, there may a delay of a few hours to days between the official release announcements and the Ubuntu Release Team enabling upgrades. From 18.04, upgrades will not be enabled until approximately the date of the 1st 20.04 point release at the end of July.'''

----

'''If you have enabled the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/BackportsPPA | Ubuntu Studio Backports PPA]]</nowiki> (this should be ALL 18.04 installs at this point),  be sure to remove it.'''

To remove the Backports PPA, open a terminal window and type:

<pre>
 sudo apt install ppa-purge
 sudo ppa-purge ppa:ubuntustudio-ppa/backports
</pre>

If for whatever reason this PPA removal fails, continue with the upgrade as usual.

== Upgrade Ubuntu Studio from 18.04 LTS or 19.10 to 20.04 LTS. ==

If you are using a Laptop ensure the following things are done.

You will need to:
* Ensure your laptop is connected to power.
* If at all practical, ensure that you are connected to the Internet via a wired connection.
* Ensure your current installation is updated.
* Allow upgrades to LTS releases (if not already set).
* Run the release upgrade tool.
* Reboot.

For Desktops:

You will need to:
* Ensure your current installation is updated.
* Allow upgrades to LTS releases (if not already set).
* Run the release upgrade tool.
* Reboot.

=== Ensure your laptop is connected to power. ===

The upgrade should run uninterrupted.

=== If at all practical, ensure that you are connected to the Internet via a wired connection. ===

The upgrade may change your wireless networking applications and drivers.

=== Ensure your current installation is updated. ===

==== Install Updates. ====

Run Software Updates and install all available updates; or

in Xfce Terminal run <pre>
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

----

=== Allow upgrades to LTS releases. ===

In 18.04 this should already be set by default, however if it has been changed for some reason you can:

Open Software & Updates; or

in Xfce Terminal run <pre>
sudo software-properties-gtk
</pre>

Under the Updates tab, set 'Normal Releases' in the Release Upgrade section.

=== Upgrade. ===

Ensure that the package ubuntu-release-upgrader is installed.

Run in Xfce Terminal:

<pre>
pkexec update-manager
</pre>

Alternatively if you wish to do the entire upgrade in a terminal, in Konsole do;

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade -m desktop
</pre>

=== The Release Upgrade tool will be downloaded and started. ===

Follow instructions to complete the upgrade.

=== Restart ===

Restart your computer when prompted.

== Welcome to Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS ==

Your computer should boot into Ubuntu Studio 20.04 with the Xfce 4.14 desktop.
