{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This software is old and its capability should be available with PulseAudio.'''

== What is JustePort? ==

It's pretty basic, you can stream  single mp3 files over your wireless or all the files in a given folder to your Airport Express base station (pretty basic AirTunes functionality). 

=== How to install Justeport ===
1. To install ''Justeport'' you need to install '''mono''' and '''mono-gmcs''' with your favorite package manager.

2. Next you need to download JustePort.exe from <nowiki>[[http://nanocr.eu/software/justeport/|JustePort]]</nowiki>. 
 
3. After downloading Justeport.exe you ned to copy Justeport.exe to /usr/bin by putting this in the terminal.
    <pre> 
sudo cp JustePort.exe /usr/bin/
    </pre>

4. Now you need to install '''lame''' (a free mp3 codec) from the Multiverse Repository if you don't already have it installed.

 
=== Streaming a single file ===
To steam a single file you need to enter this command in the terminal.
<pre>
lame --decode file.mp3 - | JustePort.exe - 10.0.1.1
</pre>
You will need to change the filename and IP address to match the mp3 file you are trying to play and the IP address of your Airport Express.

=== Streaming all mp3 in a certain folder ===
To stream all your mp3's in a certain folder you need to open up a terminal  navigate to the folder containing the mp3s, then enter this command
<pre> 
cat *.mp3 | lame --mp3input --decode - | JustePort.exe - 10.0.1.1
</pre>

* Note: you can simplify it a little bit by making an alias (for example, "playall"). Again, in a terminal type: <pre>
alias playall="cat *.mp3 | lame --mp3input --decode - | JustePort.exe - 10.0.1.1"
</pre> 
Now, to play all the mp3s in your current folder you just have to type playall.

=== How to stream other audio formats ===
You can stream any audio format if you have the right tool. To stream ogg you'd put this in terminal   
<pre>
oggdec -Q -R -o - file.ogg | JustePort.exe - 10.0.1.1
</pre>

=== Credits ===
All the credits go to Jon Lech Johansen, aka DVD Jon, who released ''JustePort'', a tool which lets you stream MPEG4 Apple Lossless files and RAW audio files to your AirPort Express. More info in his blog: <nowiki>[[http://nanocr.eu/software/justeport/|justeport]]</nowiki>. This is the only open source tool I've found to stream audio via wi-fi to the Airport Extreme base station.

-----
