{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Forum Wiki Team ==

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

The Forum Wiki Team has been set up to help with the migration of tutorials existing on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100 | Ubuntuforums]]</nowiki> to the community wiki and is based on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11802464&postcount=1 | Pending Changes]]</nowiki> to that sub-forum.

We aim to help with both migration of threads and also to help those wishing to take part in the effort. The team will act as a central point for queries.

== Contacting us ==

In the first instance the best place to contact us on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat | IRC]]</nowiki>, there is a dedicated channel on irc.freenode.net at #ubuntu-doc. 

Many of us can also be found in the #ubuntuforums channel as well.

If you wish to install a client for use, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto | XChat]]</nowiki> is a simple to use IRC client. 

Alternatively you might wish to use a browser to connect directly, this link will open a webchat instance to the correct channel - http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-doc  

We have an LP page with mailing list at https://launchpad.net/~forum.wiki.team
== Meetings/Agenda ==

Meetings will be monthly until further notice.

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ForumWikiTeam/Agenda | Forum Wiki Team agenda]]</nowiki>

== Forum to Wiki Tool ==

A script has been coded which takes a thread from the forum and converts it to moinmoin markdown for use on the wiki, substantially simplifying the initial process. 

Note that the tool works on post #1 of a thread only.

The code and instructions can be found here <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ForumWikiTeam/ImportTool | Import Tool ]]</nowiki> .
== Threads and Existing Wiki Pages ==

Threads marked for migration can be found at the community wiki - <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Pages%20For%20Import |Forum Import ]]</nowiki> page

Threads marked as unsuitable for converting to wiki - <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ForumWikiTeam/RejectedTutorial | Rejected Tutorials ]]</nowiki> or see <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/forum.wiki.team/msg00007.html | here]]</nowiki>.

Wiki's marked as needing updating <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ForumWikiTeam/PagesNeedingUpdating | Pages Needing Update ]]</nowiki>

== Other Links ==

<nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[HelpForUsers]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[HelpOnLinking]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[HelpIndex]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[HelpOnMoinWikiSyntax]]</nowiki>

https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc-contributors

== Subpages ==

This page contains the following subpages:
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
