{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''Warning: this program is not known to work on some versions (works fine for me on 32- and 64-bit 10.04'''

== Why Foxit? ==
Even though Ubuntu comes with a lot of great applications for working with PDFs, some functionality is not available in the programs installable through the standard repositories, and sometimes people just prefer something other than Evince, Kpdf, or Adobe Reader. <nowiki>[[http://www.foxitsoftware.com/downloads/index.php|Foxit]]</nowiki> is one of those programs.

== How to Install Foxit ==
Paste these commands into <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsingTheTerminal#head-2fa31364ee2acb07982a2fd5f52c983130565f8f|the terminal]]</nowiki>:

=== Download Foxit ===
Find the latest at http://www.foxitsoftware.com/pdf/desklinux/download.html
<pre>
wget -c http://mirrors.foxitsoftware.com/pub/foxit/reader/desktop/linux/1.x/1.1/enu/FoxitReader_1.1.0_i386.deb
</pre>

=== Install the .deb ===
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i FoxitReader_1.1.0_i386.deb
</pre>
(or whatever version you've just downloaded)

=== If you've got a 64-bit machine, you'll need to: ===
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i --force-architecture FoxitReader_1.1.0_i386.deb
</pre>
n.b. -- this works fine for me, though I have installed a few 32 bit libraries. 

=== Remove the original archive ===
After you test out that Foxit is working properly, you can remove the original .deb file you downloaded with the first command
<pre>
rm FoxitReader_1.1.0_i386.deb
</pre>
It should perhaps be noted that the 1.1 version of FoxitReader, which is the one for which 32-bit binaries are available (June 2011), does not have the annotation features of the current Windows version which is version 5.0. You are limited to viewing the pdf, copying text and making an image of the pdf which you can do with other native Linux pdf readers.
== Another advanced PDF application ==

<nowiki>[[PDFedit]]</nowiki> is also a popular advanced PDF program.

----
CategoryOffice
