{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This How-To will explain how to install FrostWire, a free BitTorrent client. FrostWire is a fork of LimeWire, and was previously a hybrid Gnutella and BitTorrent client. Unlike most other BitTorrent clients, FrostWire is able to search for, and download torrents from many major trackers.

<!> This software is Java based, so you will need <nowiki>[[Java]]</nowiki> installed. As of Dec. 2010 only 32-bit version is available.

== Installing FrostWire using the Debian .deb file ==

Download the Debian/Ubuntu installation file from the FrostWire website at <nowiki>[[http://www.frostwire.com]]</nowiki>.

Once the .deb file is downloaded, simply double-click on it to install FrostWire.  See <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware#deb|InstallingSoftware]]</nowiki> for other methods.

== Common Problems and Work Arounds ==

=== Invalid JRE ===

If you recieve an error such as this
<pre>
Starting FrostWire...
Java exec found in PATH. Verifying...
OOPS, you don't seem to have a valid JRE. FrostWire works best with Sun JRE available at http://www.java.com
OOPS, unable to locate java exec in  /usr/lib/  hierarchy
You need to upgrade to JRE 1.4.x or newer from http://www.java.com
ls: /usr/java/j*: No such file or directory
OOPS, unable to locate java exec in  /usr/java/  hierarchy
You need to upgrade to JRE 1.4.x or newer from http://www.java.com
ls: /opt/j*: No such file or directory
OOPS, unable to locate java exec in  /opt/  hierarchy
You need to upgrade to JRE 1.4.x or newer from http://www.java.com 
</pre>
or
<pre>
* *****************************************************************
Something went wrong with FrostWire.
Maybe you're using the wrong version of Java?
(FrostWire is tested against and works best with with Sun's JRE, Java 1.4+)
The version of Java in your PATH is:
java version "1.6.0"
OpenJDK  Runtime Environment (build 1.6.0-b10)
OpenJDK Client VM (build 1.6.0-b10, mixed mode, sharing)
</pre>
Simply type in '''sudo update-alternatives --config java''' then select the alternative that includes "sun" in the name.  See also <nowiki>[[Java]]</nowiki>.

=== Problems specific to those upgrading to Hardy Heron ===

When upgrading to Hardy, Java becomes confused and will not allow Frostwire to start.
Reconfigure java properly with the following command:

<code>sudo update-java-alternatives -s java-6-sun</code>

=== Always "Starting Connection" ===

Assuming your firewall, router, etc., are all set up properly, then there is a known issue in which a hosts-like file is out of date.  Make sure you shut down Frostwire first (i.e. right click the tray icon and select "exit", do not just minimize it).  Get http://mc3.electronicbox.net/gnutella.net and save it to <code>~/.frostwire/gnutella.net</code>.  If there is already a <code>gnutella.net</code> file, it is prudent to copy the old one to <code>gnutella.net.old</code>.  Frostwire apparently creates its own backups of the file, and you may have to delete <code>gnutella.net~</code> in order for it to find the new one.

=== Lock up During Search ===

A possible fix is to go to Tools -> Options -> Searching -> Basic and uncheck the "Show License Warning" box.

=== Network Settings ===

It is beyond the scope of this article to explain port forwarding and UPNP.  Use <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com|Google]]</nowiki>, the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Forums]]</nowiki>, or <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org|another resource]]</nowiki> to learn about those things.  The relevant Frostwire-specific informations/settings can be found in Tools -> Options -> Advanced -> Firewall Configuration.

=== Version 4.10.9-1 ===
This version of Frostwire's Debian/Ubuntu deb contains a file that is improperly formatted.  The 4.10.9-2 version no longer has this problem.  If, after installing the .deb, you receive the following errors when running <code>frostwire</code> from a terminal:
<pre>
: command not found:
: No such file or directory
: command not found:
: command not found3:
'unFrost.sh: line 24: syntax error near unexpected token `
'unFrost.sh: line 24: `look_for_java()
</pre>
you should do the following.  You must first install the sysutils package (<code>sudo aptitude install sysutils</code>).  Then issue the following command to change the format from dos to unix: <code>sudo dos2unix /usr/lib/frostwire/runFrost.sh</code>

=== Version 4.10.9-2 ===
This version of Frostwire's Debian/Ubuntu deb contains a shell script that incompatible with the default installation of Ubuntu. If, after installing the .deb, you receive the following errors when running <code>frostwire</code> from a terminal:
<pre>
runFrost.sh: 44: Syntax error: "(" unexpected (expecting "}")
</pre>
You should run the following command:
<pre>
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/frostwire
</pre>
or if you're using Kubuntu:
<pre>
kdesu kate /usr/bin/frostwire
</pre>
Changing line 3 from:
<pre>
sh runFrost.sh
</pre>
To:
<pre>
bash runFrost.sh
</pre>

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.frostwire.com|Official Website]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.frostwire.com/forum/|Frostwire Forums]]</nowiki>

----
