{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== How to setup an ftp server with three possible options. What am I talking about? ===

There are three different ways to set up an ftp server:

(1) * '''Anonymous FTP''' :

People can access the server only with the anonymous account and without a                 
password. Of course, the server administrator will set a limit for uploads to prevent                          users from putting illegal files like pirated music/films/games.
                         
(2) * '''FTP with both anonymous access and users with a passworded account''':

This method lets both anonymous and passworded account users to enter the server.  They will only have access to a specified directory, except for the user '''root''' who can view/modify/delete all files and/or folders.
 
(3) *'''FTP with mysql support for virtual users authentication''' : 

This method allows access to the server only for some user groups that haven't got a virtual users authentication shell account on the system.  It uses an external mysql server that stores user information.                          

=== First Option : Anonymous FTP ===

Before starting the creation of an anonymous ftp server, you have to add a user called ftp 
into your system, with a home directory too. This step is really easy, just follow these commands:

<pre>
useradd -d /home/ftp -s /bin/false ftp
mkdir -p /home/ftp/upload
</pre>

Doing this permits only this account to write in this folder.  You can use more variables to specify what the ftp server will do. Here are some examples:

* '''-e''' Allow access to the server only by anonymous users
* '''-B''' Start the server with background demon
* '''-i''' Anonymous users can't upload files
* '''-M''' Let anonymous users create folders
* '''-s''' ftp user files cannot be downloaded

=== Second Option : '''Both anonymous and passworded account users''' ===

To make it possible to have both anonymous and passworded account users in the same server,
follow this small guide :

* '''-B ,-i ,M, -r, -s''' same of before
* '''-u <uid>''' Enable users with a specified user id (uid) to access the server
* '''-V <Ip address>''' Only specified IPs will be able to access the server in non-anonymous mode

=== Third Option : '''Virtual Users with Mysql''' ===

To create a server with mysql support follow this steps :

* Download and install '''User Manager for PureFTPd''' which you can find here http://machiel.generaal.net/index.php?subject=user_manager_pureftpd
  
* Decompress it and upload all its contents into your web server www directory and then write on your browser this link link http://localhost/ftp/install.php

* Follow all the steps that the installer asks to you

* Copy and save rge pureftpd-mysql.conf into pureftpd user manager directory 

* Done.  Access to the administration panel using this link http://localhost/ftp 

=== More options to add before launch the server process ===

* '''-c <num>''' Max client that can connect to the server
* '''-C <num>''' Max connections for a IP
* '''-T <bandwitdh>''' Max bandwitdh disponible for each connection
* '''-n <MBytes>''' Max MB that a user can have into its home folder
* '''-m <Cpu Loading>''' Stops the anonymous uploads if the cpu loading exceed from this value

Thats all.

=== See Also ===

* <nowiki>[[vsftpd]]</nowiki> - Very Secure File Transfer Protocol Daemon
