{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

This guide was written for a Gateway M285-E to work with Ubuntu 8.04.

Although the Wacom Stylus seems to work very well in Ubuntu, the Fujitsu Finepoint Stylus (MP800) requires some manual setup. You will need to manually install the driver (xf86-input-fpit 1.2.0 works without modification), setserial, and modify xorg.conf, the setserial configuration files, and a startup script (e.g. rc.local). 

== Getting started ==

Obtain the newer version of the driver (xf86-input-fpit 1.2.0). Previous versions need to be patched or modified before they will work correctly. I suggest finding the .deb for ease of installation. 

Install setserial:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install setserial </pre>

== Configuring your X configuration ==

Open up your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:
<pre>
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf </pre>

Add these lines to the file:
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
         Identifier "Tablet"
         Driver "fpit"
         Option "Device"   "/dev/ttyS0"
	 Option "MaximumXPosition" "12550"
         Option "MaximumYPosition" "7650"
         Option "MinimumXPosition" "400"
         Option "MinimumYPosition" "400"
	 Option "InvertY"
	 Option	"Passive" "false"
	 Option "TrackRandR"
         Option "SendCoreEvents"	"true"	
EndSection </pre>

...and add 'Inputdevice "Tablet"' to the ServerLayout section

== Setting up configuration files ==

You'll need to add the following line: 
<pre>
/dev/ttyS0 port 0x06A8 uart 16954 irq 4 baud_base 38400 </pre>

...to these files
<pre>
/etc/serial.conf, /var/run/setserial.conf, /var/lib/setserial/autoserial.conf </pre>

Edit your /etc/rc.local file to look like this:
<pre> 
setserial /dev/ttyS0 autoconfig

setserial /dev/ttyS0 port 0x06A8 uart 16954 irq 4 baud_base 38400

exit 0 </pre>

== Getting Right Click Working ==

I personally had issues with the right click. It seems that the right click on the stylus needs to be tied to button 3 and the right click on the touchpad needs to be tied to button 2. The best I have done for this is just to create a script that will switch where right click is being used.

First we need to create the file:
<pre>
sudo nano /usr/local/sbin/ms </pre>

Put this text in the file:
<pre>
case "$1" in
        t)
                echo "Setting up right click for touchpad."
                xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9";;
        s)
                echo "Setting up right click for stylus."
                xmodmap -e "pointer = 1 3 2 4 5 6 7 8 9";;
esac </pre>

Save and close the file.

Make the file executable:
<pre>
chmod a+x /usr/local/sbin/ms </pre>

At this point you can now open up a terminal window and type:
ms s   #Allows you to use right click on the stylus
ms t   #Allows you to use right click on the touchpad
