{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== UBUNTU WIKI FOR THE ASUS T101MT TABLET EEEPC ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tableclass="table-Notebook" tablestyle="width:37%; background:#F1F1ED; float:left; margin:1em 2em 2em 0em;" style=" top left no-repeat;" class="table-Notebook" 15% >
| 
| <style="border:none;" : 35%> {*} '''The Specifications'''
| <style="background: top right no-repeat;" class="table-Notebook" 15%>
|-
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> '''Brand:'''
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> Asus
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
|-
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> '''Model:'''
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> T101MT
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
|-
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> '''RAM Memory:'''
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> 2 GiB
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
|-
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> '''Processor:'''
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> Intel Atom 450
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
|-
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> '''Integrated Graphics:'''
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(>GMA 3150
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
|-
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(> '''Distribution used:'''
| < : 35% class="table-Notebook"(>Ubuntu 10.10 «Maverick Merkaat»
| < : 15% class="table-Notebook">
|-
| <style="background: url(/htdocs/common/img/Hardware/table-bottom-sx.png) bottom left no-repeat;" class="table-Notebook" 15% >
| <style="border:none; background-color:;" -2 >
| <style=" bottom right no-repeat;" class="table-Notebook" 15% >
|}

** to get this machine work properly with Ubuntu 10.10 "Maverick Merkaat" with touchscreen and two-finger support

** Look here if you are using Ubuntu 10.04 "Lucid Lynx": https://help.ubuntu.com/community/T101MT

** Tested with Ubuntu desktop (gnome) and Ubuntu netbook remix. Not completely tested with kubuntu (KDE), but it should work just as well.

** The original forum entry discussing this machines configuration can be found at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1468376

=== PPA FOR EEEPC T101MT SUPPORT ===

** In order to use the software from this repository by Philipp Merkel, you have to add to your software sources the following lines:

  {{{
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/plippo/t101mt/ubuntu maverick main
  }}}

  {{{
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/plippo/t101mt/ubuntu maverick main
  }}}
  
** Than, call sudo apt-get update, apt-get upgrade or launch the update manager from the menu

** Here is the PPA link, for more informations: https://launchpad.net/~plippo/+archive/t101mt

** From this source you can install an "unpatched" version of xserver-xorg-input-evdev package and other software useful for the T101MT

=== BRIGHTNESS AND SPECIAL KEYS ===

To enable full screen brightness and special keys (e.g. Fn+...):

  1. Open a terminal, enter sudo gedit /etc/default/grub and change the line that starts with
  {{{
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT
  }}}
  to
  {{{
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor"
  }}}

  2. Call
  {{{
sudo update-grub
  }}}
  and reboot.

  3. To make full brightness work after every boot make sure that for your model 00:02.0 is the
  correct address by typing in a terminal:
  {{{
lspci | grep "VGA compatible"
  }}}

  The result should be a line that reads:
  {{{
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation N10 Family Integrated Graphics Controller
  }}}

  4. if you get this result, open the file /etc/rc.local with root rights:
  {{{
gksudo gedit /etc/rc.local
  }}}
  ABOVE the line that reads exit 0, add the following line:
  {{{
setpci -s 00:02.0 f4.b=ff
  }}}
  
  5. Save the file.

  This way, when you boot up, the screen will start with full brightness and you can control it
  normally using Fn+F5/F6 on your keyboard.

=== TOUCH SCREEN ===

T101mt touchscreen is a resistive, 2 fingers multitouch EGALAX touchscreen
there is a firmware driver for it, and as already noted above, kernel 2.6.35 contains already the multitouch open source drivers St. Chatty from ENAC kindly provided. But in order to make touchscreen work properly, until bugs will be resolved, follow these steps:

   1. Install the common touchscreen support package by Plippo you can download here:

   <nowiki>[[attachment:egalax-multitouch-driver-common.deb]]</nowiki>

   2. Install the kernel module package you can download here:

    
   For Kernel 2.6.35-21: <nowiki>[[attachment:egalax-multitouch-driver-2.6.35-21-generic-i386.deb]]</nowiki>

   For Kernel 2.6.35-22: <nowiki>[[attachment:egalax-multitouch-driver-2.6.35-22-generic-i386.deb]]</nowiki>

   3. Reboot

   4. If something goes wrong, set to default calibration values by typing the following in your terminal
   {{{
xinput set-prop --type=int --format=32 10 "Evdev Axis Calibration" 411 32557 45 32517
   }}}
   
==== How to build a kernel driver by yourself ====

   1. Download: <nowiki>[[attachment:t101mt-kernel-driver-new3.tar.gz]]</nowiki>

   2. uncompress it in any directory, e.g. your home directory.

   3. Then you have to install the packages build-essential, fakeroot, linux-headers-generic and linux-source.

   4. To build the driver, open a terminal and go to the directory you uncompressed, which should have the name t101mt-kernel-driver.

   5. Inside this directory, just call
   {{{
./build.sh
   }}}

   6. You should be asked to enter your password, then everything should work automatically.
   Afterwards, you should find a package called egalax-multitouch-driver-xx-generic-xx.deb in this
   drive, which you can install by double clicking on it or with dpkg.
  
   7. When you update your kernel, you need to rebuild the driver. In order to do it, you have to update also the package linux-headers to the exact version of the new kernel. You might also have to reinstall the source:

   {{{
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-source-2.6.35
   }}}

==== Note about the driver and the calibrator ====

   The kernel driver is provided by ENAC, you find sources and building instructions there:

   http://www.lii-enac.fr/en/projects/shareit/linux-howto.html

   contains general build instructions

   http://www.lii-enac.fr/en/projects/shareit/multitouch-devices.html

   contains the specific driver - look for "eGalax"

   The calibrator is basically this one:

   http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/xinput_calibrator

   It's been modified by Plippo a bit so it directly writes the calibration to the xorg.conf.d path

=== TO ROTATE THE SCREEN: ===

The problem about screen rotation is that the evdev driver doesn't respect the orientation of the screen. So you have to rotate the screen and the touchscreen to get both working in the same way. There is a little script that does both, it's included in the common touchscreen support package that you have been installed before. You can rotate the screen and touchscreen by calling

   {{{
touchrotate left
   }}}

   rotates the screen so the top panel is at the left side.

   {{{
touchrotate right
   }}}

   rotates the screen so the top panel is at the right side.

   {{{
touchrotate inverted
   }}}
   
   rotates the screen so the top panel is at the bottom.

   {{{
touchrotate normal
   }}}

   rotates the screen so the top panel is at the top, in normal position.

   {{{
touchrotate toleft
   }}}

   rotates the screen to the left from its current position

  {{{
touchrotate toright
  }}}

  rotates the screen to the right from its current position

  {{{
touchrotate topdown
  }}}

  rotates the screen so it is top down from its current position

  You can also map the rotation to a key combination with the Keyboard Shortcut tool provided for ubuntu, just add a new shortcut and set e.g.

  {{{
touchrotate toright
  }}}

   in order to execute the command, click on the right column and press the key to be used for the shortcut, e.g. the screen rotation key below the display.

=== IF THE CAMERA IS UPSIDE DOWN ===

** For the upside down webcam, Hans De Goede made us a new libv4l.
  
** You can download it here: <nowiki>[[attachment:v4l-utils-0.7.92-test.tar.gz]]</nowiki>

** To install it type on the terminal, in this order:

  {{{
tar xvfz v4l-utils-0.7.92-test.tar.gz
  
cd v4l-utils-0.7.92-test

make PREFIX=/usr

sudo make install PREFIX=/usr
  }}}

   And you'll be on earth !

=== GIMP ===

  To get pressure sensitivity in GIMP go to GIMP's input device settings (Edit › Settings › Input devices › configure extended input devices), choose there "eGalax Inc. USB TouchController" and set the mode to "screen". You should then be able to draw with different opacity depending on your pressure.

=== MYPAINT ===

** If you like painting, you might be interested in the patched version of MyPaint which can be found here:

  <nowiki>[[attachment:mypaint-resistive.deb]]</nowiki>

  It doesn't work for all brushes, but for some.

  Check out the beautiful drawing mrspacklecrisp created with it:

  http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9283663&postcount=45

** Mrspacklecrisp also provided a fix for all brushes of mypaint. Follow these steps:

  {{{
  cd /usr/share/mypaint/brushes
 
  sudo sed -i 's/slow_tracking_per_dab .*/placeholder 0.0/g' *.myb

  sudo sed -i 's/slow_tracking .*/slow_tracking 0.0/g' *.myb

  sudo sed -i 's/placeholder .*/slow_tracking_per_dab 0.0/g' *.myb
  }}}

=== EXPERIMENTAL TWO-FINGER TOUCH DAEMON ===

  Made by Plippo. It recognizes the following two-fingered gestures: Two-fingered tap, two-fingered scroll, two-fingered zoom, two-fingered rotate. It blocks input so these gestures don't reach the underlying application as normal mouse events. It creates mouse and key events and sends them to the application instead.

  To be able to do this, the daemon needs different profiles for different applications. Here is what should work at the moment:

  Eye of Gnome (Ubuntu's default picture viewer): Zoom, scroll, rotate, right click

  Evince (Ubuntu's default document (PDF) viewer): Zoom, scroll, rotate, right click

  Ubuntu Netbook Launcher: Scroll, right click, and if you're using Compiz: switching between virtual desktops

  F-Spot: Zoom, scroll, right click

  Almost every other application: Scroll, right click, for many (like Firefox, Nautilus, Openoffice) also zoom

  Unfortunately, applications which use extended input capabilities like GIMP, Xournal or MyPaint don't work with the daemon. They are blacklisted, so the daemon automatically pauses when one of those applications is active. This means that you can't use two-finger gestures in those. This also means that if you find an application that doesn't work at all while the daemon is running, it probably needs to be blacklisted, too.
   
  The latest version of twofing is more stable, allows to rotate the Compiz cube with two fingers and is less zoom sensitive: It should less often occur that you zoom when you actually wanted to scroll.
  There is a profile for Google Earth (as Maverick's graphics driver is finally fast enough for a smooth experience): That's really fun, explore the globe with two fingers!
  Massive code restructuring/cleanup: Gesture handling code and easing code have been separated from the main tweaking code into different files for better clearity and to make future enhancements easier.
 Improvements for users of alternative WMs (especially mutter used in Unity, but may also help for KWin), still not working perfectly there, though.
  And, last but not least at all: Finally there is Kinetic scrolling! Scrolling continues (naturally) when you stop (doesn't work in Eye Of Gnome).

  In order to try this feature, follow these steps:
  

  1. download:

  <nowiki>[[attachment:twofing-0.0.6b.tar.gz]]</nowiki>
    
  2. Extract it to a folder of your choice (e.g. your home dir)

  3. Open a terminal and navigate to the extracted folder (e.g. cd ~/twofing-0.0.6b if you extracted it to your home dir)

  4. Install the required packages:

  {{{
sudo apt-get install build-essential libx11-dev libxtst-dev libxi-dev x11proto-randr-dev libxrandr-dev
  }}}

  5. Compile the daemon by calling

  {{{
make
  }}}

  6. Install the daemon by calling

  {{{
sudo make install
  }}}

  7. Reboot (doesn't have to be done on updates, only on first install as a new udev rule is created)

  8. Open a terminal again and call twofing (nothing will seem to happen)

  9. Open your favorite application

  10. Perform gestures on the screen with two fingers
 
  11. To stop the daemon, simply call
  
  {{{
killall twofing
  }}}

  11. To have twofing already working at each boot, load gnome-session-properties, by calling it in terminal or in System/Preferences/Sessions menu:

  {{{
twofing --wait
  }}}
  
  13. You can choose between three modes for right-clicking, depending on which option you add to your twofing call:
   
  {{{
--click=center
  }}}
   
  right clicks will occur between both fingers (used by default)

  {{{
--click=first
  }}}
   
  right clicks will occur at the finger which was the first one that touched the screen

  {{{
--click=second
  }}}

  right clicks will occur at the finger which was the second one that touched the screen
   
   

=== ONE FINGER SCROLLING WITH FIREFOX ===

  If you prefer to surf the web scrolling web sites with Firefox, you can install this add-on, that was successfully tested:
  
  https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1250/

=== SKYPE ===

Skype uses its own version of the video library, not the modified one. You should be able to fix this by calling skype using the following command:

  {{{
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
  }}}

To launch skype from the menu, make a file called skype.sh in the home directory,
putting on the terminal:

  {{{
sudo gedit skype.sh
  }}}

Write in it the following line:

  {{{
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
  }}}

then put in the menu, in the command line:

  {{{
sh skype.sh
  }}}

so when you click on the menu, the program starts

  To get the microphone work with Skype, install padevchooser to regulate mono mic and not stereo. Launch the application, click on input, click on the middle button on the upper right to unblock the channels, and put one of channels to zero and the other one to 100%. It seems that Skype doesn't find the mono internal mic otherwise and stops to work.

This way mic should work not only with ubuntu voice recorder, but also with skype.

=== GMAIL VIDEO CHAT ===

  To have the video working correctly (and not upside-down) chatting with gmail, you have to start the browser with the same command on terminal (changing in the end the name of your browser:
   
  {{{
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so firefox
  }}}

=== GUVCVIEW ===

   To launch guvcview, you need the same command of Skype in order not to get the image upside-down:

   {{{
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so guvcview
   }}}

   In order to get it working on the menu, create a sh file as previously explained in the paragraph about Skype.

=== GKEYMANAGER ===

   Application by Chavi, very useful, can be personalized as you wish. But you need to know what you're doing. It's still experimental.

  
  deb file: <nowiki>[[attachment:gkeymanager_0.1-2_i386.deb.tar.gz]]</nowiki>
  
  source: <nowiki>[[attachment:gkeymanager-0.1.tar.gz]]</nowiki>

===== Installation =====

   1. Install libxdo1 from debian squeeze for example downloading in deb form from here:
   
   http://packages.debian.org/squeeze/libxdo1

   2. If not installed yet, install acpi. For example by calling "sudo apt-get install acpi"

   Ubuntu should have a default acpid package, works just the same.

   3. After executing the deb file, or after having compiled from source, you should have a file called /etc/acpi/grotatescreen.sh

   Executing this should rotate the screen with a notification. This is its default behavior.

   But it can also launch a menu, linked to an xml file with proper instructions. There are examples of those xmls in /usr/share/doc/gkeymanager/xml/ - But you can also find icons and xml files in the source of this application

   Gkeymanager can launch apps, move/resize windows, get fullscreen with a touch of a finger, and so on.

   How it works: gkeymanager will search for the xml's first in $HOME/.gekeymanager and then in /etc/gkeymanager/xml. In both cases the icons should be in ./icons/

** To make the program start at each boot put in the boot menu "gkeymanager twoclicks" or "gkeymanager showtray" (if you just want the icon) launched in your startup program manager.

** To make it run every time the rotate button is pressed the press of x86screenSaver has to be binded to the command /etc/acpi/grotatescreen.sh

** In ubuntu with gnome you can use keyboard shorcuts under System > Preferences > Keyboard Shortcuts

** With compiz bind the keypress to the action in /etc/acpi/events/event_rotate

** In the source file there is a complete help file that explains the program behaviour and how to change the xml files.

=== VIRTUAL KEYBOARD ===

** You can use ubuntu's default onboard keyboard

** Cellwriter is another nice app: can be used als for handwriting recognition, available on repository

** Another good keyboard is florence, fully costumizable, you can find sources and tutorial here:

  http://florence.sourceforge.net/english.html
Inserisci una descrizione per T101MT-MAVERICK.
