{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Thinkpad fixes, workarounds - 10.04 & 10.10 & 11.04
Hi all...
I was thinking about starting a topic, describing my fixes for my IBM Thinkpad T60 laptop with ubuntu 10.04, 10.10 and 11.04 as well.
"(Most of other Thinkpads have the same problems and solution as well)"

Just installed 11.04. Everything works as below:

== Scrolling with trackpoint: ==

* install gpointing-device-settings and set it up like this:
      ""System -> Preferences -> Pointing Devices -> TPPS/2 IBM Trackpoint""
* tick: use wheel emulation
* select button 2 (middle button works as wheel )

=== UPDATE: some might noticed that after a suspend-resume cycle, middle button scolling isn't working anymore... ===

Here is a workaround which I found
Create a file eg. from terminal like:
<code>sudo gedit usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/20-thinkpad.conf</code>
and the contents of the file should be:
<pre>
Section "InputClass"
    Identifier "Trackpoint Wheel Emulation"
    MatchProduct "TrackPoint"
    MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/event*"
    Driver "evdev"
    Option "EmulateWheel" "true"
    Option "EmulateWheelButton" "2"
    Option "Emulate3Buttons" "false"
    Option "XAxisMapping" "6 7"
    Option "YAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection
</pre>
----

== Volume notifications ==

The hardware buttons work out of the box. Unfortunately there is no osd notification feedback...
You can find my original thread about this: 

"" To sum it up ""
<code>sudo gedit /etc/rc.local</code>

insert line before exit:
<pre>
sudo cp /sys/devices/platform/thinkpad_acpi/hotkey_all_mask /sys/devices/platform/thinkpad_acpi/hotkey_mask</pre>

The last lines should look like this:

<pre>
sudo cp /sys/devices/platform/thinkpad_acpi/hotkey_all_mask /sys/devices/platform/thinkpad_acpi/hotkey_mask
exit 0
</pre>
Reboot and you're done. OSD notification works.
Tested on 10.04 and 10.10 as well!

----

Another annoying issue (for me) the Metacity window icons on the left.
I prefer them on the right (MS style)
To do that:
Alt+F2 (run application)and type: gconf-editor
apps -> metacity -> general -> button_layout (double click to edit value)
and enter this:
Code:

menu:minimize,maximize,close

Anyone has any more ideas please feel free to tell us about it.
