{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

A tablet is a laptop with a touch enabled screen. There are various vendors offering different permutations on tablet form factor:
* A standard laptop with full keyboard and non-rotatable, touch enabled screen (ex. Lenovo IdeaPad S415 Touch).
* A laptop with no keyboard or touchpad, and only a touch enabled screen (ex. Microsoft Surface Pro). 

== Identifying the touch screen vendor ==

Open a terminal and run this command: <pre>
cat /sys/bus/usb/devices/*/product
</pre> This will output a list of your usb-devices, one of which would be the touch screen vendor. An example output would have: <pre>
Tablet WP8060U
</pre> or: <pre>
eGalaxTouch EXC7910-1018-12.00.00
</pre>

== Aiptek driver ==

<pre>
Trust Wireless Tablet 1200
</pre>

See: AiptekTablet

== Wacom driver ==

* <nowiki>[[FujitsuStylisticST4000]]</nowiki>

See: <nowiki>[[Wacom]]</nowiki>

== Wizardpen driver ==

<pre>
* Acecad Flair II GT-504
* G-pen
* Genius Wizardpen
* Genius Mousepen
* Genius 
* iBall
* Manhattan
* QWare
* Trust TB-6300
* UC-LOGIC
* Tablet PF1209 (lsusb: UC-Logic Technology Corp.) - Genius PenSketch 9x12
* Tablet WP4030U (lsusb: UC-Logic Technology Corp. ) - Tablet WP4030U
* Tablet WP5540U (lsusb: UC-Logic Technology Corp. Genius MousePen 5x4 Tablet) - Genius MousePen 5x4 Tablet
* Tablet WP8060U (Genius MousePen 8x6 Tablet) - Genius MousePen 8x6" Tablet
* Tablet WP8060U (lsusb:UC-Logic Technology Corp.) - Manhattan Graphics Tablet 8x6"
* Tablet WP8060U (lsusb:UC-Logic Technology Corp.) - Trust TB-6300 Tablet 8x6"
* Tablet WP8060U (lsusb:UC-Logic Technology Corp.) - Genius MousePen 8x6" Tablet
</pre>
See: TabletSetupWizardpen

== eGalax driver ==

It is used by several Hewlett Packard (HP) TabletPC models. As well, it is found in a Lenovo IdeaPad S415 Touch.

----
CategoryX
