{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What are tags? ==

Tags are used to mark pages needing attention from editors. Below are instructions for adding tags and the types of tags which can be used when editing/maintaining wiki documents. 

Tags should be used sparingly, as they add clutter to an existing article and reduce readability. (Tags are often used as a form of wiki vandalism.) It is always better to update a page than to merely add a tag indicating an update is needed.

=== Adding tags ===

You can add a tag to a page by inserting one of the ''Include'' commands listed below (see the ''Examples'' section of a specific tag). Tags should be added at the '''very top of a page''', before any other text.

Choose the tags you add to a page carefully, referring to the ''Usage'' instructions for the tags listed below. If you are still unsure whether to add the tag or not, look at other pages with the same tag (click on a ''List of pages with this tag'' link, below).

When you add a tag to a page you should '''provide a comment''' directly below the tag briefly explaining the reason for adding it, like so:

<pre>
</pre>

You should also write a relevant comment about the addition of the tag in the box marked ''Comment'', directly below the main page-editing box. This helps other wiki editors to track the addition and removal of tags.

== List of tags ==

The current set of tags approved for use on the wiki is listed below. See <nowiki>[[#Propose|Proposing new tags]]</nowiki> if you want to add a new tag. 

'''Note:''' Please '''Do not''' add tags to this page without discussing it with the Documentation Team first.

=== Unsupported Version ===

* Pages which provide instructions __exclusively__ for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/#Releases|unsupported versions]]</nowiki> of Ubuntu.
* __Do not__ use this tag on pages which cover both supported and unsupported versions of Ubuntu.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-Unsupported-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.

=== Content cleanup required ===

* Pages which do not follow the content guidelines set out in the <nowiki>[[WikiGuide]]</nowiki>. For example:
** Pages with possible misleading or inaccurate information that needs to be corrected.
** Pages with poor spelling, punctuation and/or grammar.
** Pages with confusing or inadequate structure.
** Pages which are 'over-structured' (i.e. too many short sections)
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-ContentCleanup-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.
* This tag should be used sparingly, as it adds clutter and reduces readability.

=== Style cleanup required ===

* Pages which use non-standard styles. Standard styles are dictated by the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/StyleGuide|Documentation Style Guide]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[WikiGuide]]</nowiki>.
* Pages which use inappropriate or excessive formatting.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-StyleCleanup-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.
* This tag should be used sparingly, as it adds clutter and reduces readability.

=== Needs Expansion ===

* Pages which do not provide sufficient detail on the subject which they are supposed to cover.
* Pages which are unfinished.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-NeedsExpansion-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.
* This tag should be used sparingly, as it adds clutter and reduces readability.

=== Page too long ===

* Pages which are too long.
* Pages which should be split up into sub-articles to help improve navigation.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-TooLong-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.
* This tag should be used sparingly, as it adds clutter and reduces readability.

=== Candidate for moving ===

* Pages which cover subjects which are inappropriate for the Help wiki (this wiki), but are appropriate for the Team wiki (http://wiki.ubuntu.com). These might include:
** Personal pages.
** Planning or development information.
** Blueprints.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-Moving-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.

=== Candidate for deletion ===

* Pages which cover subjects which are inappropriate for the Help wiki (this wiki). These might include:
** Spam or advertising material.
** Links to malicious files or other unsavoury websites.
** Pages which are counterproductive and/or add negligible value considering the official documentation and other wiki pages.
* When adding this tag to a page, add a comment at the top in italics explaining the reason why you have suggested it be deleted. Also mention any relevant considerations that apply in relation to the guidelines at WikiGuide/DeletingAndRenaming. 
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-Deletion-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.

=== Duplicate article ===

* '''Note:''' When adding this to a page, make sure that you include a comment with a link to the page you suspect that it is a duplicate of.
* Pages which cover the same material as another page.
* Pages which cover a subset of the material of another page.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-Duplicate-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.

=== Needs Updating ===

* '''Note:''' When adding this to a page, make sure that you include a comment with a link to the page you suspect that it can be updated from
* Ask on places like ubuntu-forum to get the people there alerted.
* To add this tag, use:<pre>
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[Tag-NeedsUpdating-List|List of pages with this tag]]</nowiki>.

== Proposing new tags ==

If you need to tag certain pages but feel that none of the tags on this page are relevant, please contact the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team mailing list]]</nowiki> to propose a new tag. Provide a reason for wanting a new tag in your email, along with links to a few pages which the tag would be used on.

* It is desirable to limit the number of tags in use at any one time to avoid confusing users and editors of the wiki alike. 

* Please '''do not''' add any tags to this page without first discussing it with the Documentation Team.

<nowiki>[[#Top|Back to top]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryDevelopment
