{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
The TASCAM US-122 is a USB audio/MIDI interface that will form a bridge between your music and your computer. Please visit http://tascam.com/product/us-122/ for more information on the device.

== Installation (newer releases) ==

For at least Maverick and newer releases, this is what you need to do:

* Add the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu#Ubuntu_Software_Tab|Multiverse]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu|Medibuntu]]</nowiki> repositories.

* install the alsa-firmware package.

* Now plug your US-122 device in.

* If the lights don't come up, continue with step 7 for older releases.

== Installation (older releases) ==

This is simply a rewrite of a Hoary tutorial to be used in getting the TASCAM US-122 to work in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake). Very little has changed except for versions of packages being installed.

'''NOTE:''' The Ubuntu Studio should be setup before continuing on with this tutorial. If you actually have use for a US-122, you probably have use for many of the other functions and applications in the Ubuntu Studio.

It should add that the Ubuntu Studio was setup prior to doing the steps in this tutorial. If you actually have use for a US-122, you probably have use for many of the other pieces of Ubuntu Studio. More information on the Ubuntu Studio Project can be viewed at http://ubuntustudio.com

This tutorial is written to be worked and used from the Command Line (CLI). There is also a need for <code>Universe</code> and <code>Multiverse</code> repositories, so refer to the <nowiki>[[Repositories]]</nowiki> wiki page for further information.

=== Step 1: Install Dependencies ===
'''NOTE:''' The following is to be typed in on one line
<pre>
</pre>

=== Step 2: Download and install ALSA Firmware ===
Download the alsa-firmware package, unpack it and then build and install the contents:
<pre>
</pre>

=== Step 3: Download TASCAM US-122 Firmware ===
<pre>
</pre>

=== Step 4: Extract TASCAM US-122 Firmware ===
Goto the location you downloaded the TASCAM US-122 firmware, <code>usx2y-fw-0.1b.tar.bz2</code>.
<pre>
</pre>

=== Step 5: Retrieve USB Information ===
'''NOTE:''' Make note of the bus and device for the TASCAM US-122 that is outputted from the following command:
<pre>
</pre>
'''__EXAMPLE__''': Note that it may not be the same output as you receive.
<code>Bus 002 Device 003:  ID 1604:8006 Tascam US-122 Audio/Midi Interface</code>

=== Step 6: Load the TASCAM US-122 Firmware ===
'''NOTE:''' <code>/path/to/</code> represents the location of your <code>ld2-ezusb.hex</code> file that was in the <code>usx2y-f2-0.1b.tar.bz2</code> archive downloaded from Landerland.de. The <code>/002/003</code> represents the information outputted from the <code>lsusb</code> for Bus (002) and Device (003).
<pre>
</pre>

or, if you are using a more recent version of Ubuntu:

<pre>
</pre>

=== Step 7: TASCAM US-122 Initialization ===
The following command should initialize the TASCAM US-122, causing the lights on the unit to come on.
<pre>
</pre>

If you get a message like "No USX2Y-compatible cards found", do the following:
<pre>
</pre>
(see http://alsa.opensrc.org/Tascam_US-122)

=== Better udev Integration ===

This allows "plug and play" usage of the device. Check that you have all the needed firmware files and software mentioned above. To trigger the loader software through the <code>udev</code> system, you need a special config file in the <code>/etc/udev/rules.d/</code> directory. You can call it <code>55-tascam.rules</code> for example. It should have the following content for the TASCAM US-122 (check your paths and files):
<pre>
BUS=="usb", ACTION=="add", SYSFS{idProduct}=="8006", SYSFS{idVendor}=="1604", RUN+="/bin/sh -c '/sbin/fxload -D %N -s /usr/share/alsa/firmware/usx2yloader/tascam_loader.ihx -I /usr/share/alsa/firmware/usx2yloader/us122fw.ihx'"

BUS=="usb", ACTION=="add", SYSFS{idProduct}=="8007", SYSFS{idVendor}=="1604", RUN+="/bin/sh -c '/usr/bin/usx2yloader'"
</pre>

If this doesn't work, try using the ld2-ezusb.hex instead of tascam_loader.ihx.

== Post Installation ==
To take a look at your new/current audio arrangement, issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>
You should get an output similar to the following:
<pre>
0 [Live ]: EMU10K1 - Sound Blaster Live!
Sound Blaster Live! (rev.10) at 0xd000, irq 18
1 [USX2Y ]: USB US-X2Y - TASCAM US-X2Y
TASCAM US-X2Y (1604:8007 if 0 at 001/006)
</pre>
'''NOTE:''' Your output may not be the same depending on your setup.

=== Reinitialization ===
Should you reboot or disconnect the device, you will need to initialize the TASCAM US-122. To initialize, issue the following command:
<pre>
</pre>
You could even have '''usx2yloader''' run on startup, if the card was attached all the time.

----
''This page was created with the written consent of the "Original Author".'' <<BR>>
Original Author: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=971|SFN]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
Original Thread: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=194490 <<BR>>
