{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== GNU TeXmacs ==

GNU TeXmacs is a free scientific text editor inspired by TeX and emacs.

From http://www.texmacs.org/:

 "GNU TeXmacs is a free wysiwyw (what you see is what you want) editing platform with special features for scientists. The software aims to provide a unified and user friendly framework for editing structured documents with different types of content (text, graphics, mathematics, interactive content, etc.). The rendering engine uses high-quality typesetting algorithms so as to produce professionally looking documents, which can either be printed out or presented from a laptop.

 The software includes a text editor with support for mathematical formulas, a small technical picture editor and a tool for making presentations from a laptop. Moreover, TeXmacs can be used as an interface for many external systems for computer algebra, numerical analysis, statistics, etc. New presentation styles can be written by the user and new features can be added to the editor using the Scheme extension language. A native spreadsheet and tools for collaborative authoring are planned for later.

 TeXmacs runs on all major Unix platforms and Windows. Documents can be saved in TeXmacs, Xml or Scheme format and printed as Postscript or Pdf files. Converters exist for TeX/LaTeX and Html/Mathml."

== Key Features ==

* wysiwyw (what you see is what you want) editing
* editing structured documents
* text
* graphics
* mathematical formulas
* interactive content
* a small technical picture editor
* a tool for making presentations from a laptop
* can be used as an interface for many external systems for computer algebra, numerical analysis, statistics, etc

== Screenshot ==

See <nowiki>[[http://www.texmacs.org/tmweb/home/screenshots.en.html|screenshots]]</nowiki>.

== Installation ==

* Via main menu '''Add/Remove''' dialog. This installs TeXmacs into the '''Accessories''' menu.
* Via '''<nowiki>[[Synaptic|Synaptic Package Manager]]</nowiki>'''
* Via apt-get
<pre>
sudo apt-get install texmacs
</pre>

== Hints and Tips ==

=== TeXmacs and Maxima Integration ===

TeXmacs can be used as a pretty front-end to <nowiki>[[Maxima]]</nowiki>.

There is a bug in Edgy-Hardy preventing TeXmacs from being used as a front-end to Maxima. (See https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/texmacs/+bug/58498) The problem can be solved by changing the first line of file /usr/lib/texmacs/TeXmacs/bin/maxima_detect to #!/bin/bash.

If you use Maxima5.13 and Texmacs 1.0.6.11, scripts maxima_detect and tm_maxima in directory /usr/lib/texmacs/TeXmacs/bin needed to changed manually.

find the following code in maxima_detect<pre>
        if $MAXIMA --list-avail | grep -F "version 5.9.1
version 5.9.2
version 5.9.3
version 5.10
version 5.11
version 5.12" >/dev/null
</pre>
change to
<pre>
        if $MAXIMA --list-avail | grep -F "version 5.9.1
version 5.9.2
version 5.9.3
version 5.10
version 5.11
version 5.12
version 5.13" >/dev/null
</pre>

find the following code in tm_maxima
<pre>
5.11.* | 5.12.*) exec maxima -u $1 -l $2 -p "$TEXMACS_MAXIMA_PATH/texmacs-maxima-5.11.0.lisp";;
</pre>
change to
<pre>
5.11.* | 5.12.* | 5.13.*) exec maxima -u $1 -l $2 -p "$TEXMACS_MAXIMA_PATH/texmacs-maxima-5.11.0.lisp";;
</pre>

=== Fonts for Chinese, Japanese and Korean ===
From version 1.0.6.1 on, TeXmacs comes with support for Chinese, Japanese and Korean. However, the standard distributions do not include the necessary fonts, which can be downloaded separately:

* Tarball with <nowiki>[[ftp:--ftp.texmacs.org-pub-TeXmacs-fonts-TeXmacs-chinese-fonts.tar.gz|Chinese fonts (6.8 Mb)]]</nowiki>.
* Tarball with <nowiki>[[ftp:--ftp.texmacs.org-pub-TeXmacs-fonts-TeXmacs-japanese-fonts.tar.gz|Japanese fonts (9.1 Mb)]]</nowiki>.
* Tarball with <nowiki>[[ftp:--ftp.texmacs.org-pub-TeXmacs-fonts-TeXmacs-korean-fonts.tar.gz|Korean fonts (10.5 Mb)]]</nowiki>.

After downloading, cd into the directory ~/.TeXmacs (which you have to create if it does not already exist) and unpack the fonts using
<pre>
gunzip -c TeXmacs-language-fonts.tar.gz | tar xvf -
</pre>
== Other applications you may wish to look at ==

== Further Reading ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.texmacs.org/|TeXmacs website]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.texmacs.org/tmweb/help/faq.en.html|TeXmacs FAQ]]</nowiki> 

* <nowiki>[[http://arxiv.org/html/cs.SC/0504039|Tutorial]]</nowiki> for using TeXmacs as a front-end to Maxima

----
CategoryOffice CategoryScience
