{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFF280"> {i} ThinClients is part of the UserDocumentation series of index pages.  Please read the WikiGuide prior to making changes.
|}

To the user, a thin client behaves like a regular desktop computer. To the administrator, a thin client has no storage of its own, is easy to maintain, and can give the user a modern computing experience even with ancient hardware.

A thin client is a computer in client-server architecture network which depends primarily on the central server for processing activities, and mainly focuses on conveying input and output between the user and the remote server where the application program is actually being executed. The thin client computer functions as a very smart graphic terminal. More extensive introduction: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thin_client 

== LTSP ==

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuLTSP]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu LTSP Community Wiki

* ThinClientHowto - General overview of Thin-Clients and guide to setting up LTSP - Linux Terminal Server Project. ( /!\ older versions)

== SunRay ==

* UbuntuOnSunRay - Guide to setting up SunRay Thin-Client machines to run off an Ubuntu system.

== ThinLinc ==

* ThinLinc - A short guide on getting ThinLinc up and running on Ubuntu.

----
CategoryHardware
