{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''ThinLinc Server Installation on Ubuntu'''
----

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

ThinLinc is a Linux Remote Desktop server from Cendio, based on TigerVNC. Ubuntu is an officially supported distribution for ThinLinc, and packages are provided for installation on this platform. For more information on the latest version of Ubuntu currently supported by ThinLinc, see <nowiki>[[https://www.cendio.com/resources/docs/tag/requirements_server.html|here]]</nowiki>.

== Obtaining the ThinLinc Server Software ==

ThinLinc is not available in the Ubuntu repositories, however it may be easily downloaded from Cendio's home page at https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/download. Both the server and client bundles are distributed as .zip files; download and save the Server Bundle .zip file to your computer.

== Installing the ThinLinc Server ==

Unzip the ThinLinc Server Bundle and locate the file named "install-server". This file is an executable script; double-clicking on this file will present you with a dialogue asking what you want to do with it. Clicking "Run" will start the graphical ThinLinc installer.

The installer consists of 2 main parts: the installation of ThinLinc itself, and a second part called "tl-setup" which will configure your Ubuntu server for use with ThinLinc.

=== Installation of ThinLinc ===

The installer will analyse your system for previous ThinLinc installations, and if required, install or update the relevant ThinLinc packages. The Server Bundle contains packages for both 32- and 64-bit systems - the correct architecture will be selected automatically for you. The packages to be installed/updated will be presented and installed.

=== The tl-setup script ===

After the ThinLinc installation, the "tl-setup" script will be run automatically for you. This part of the installer will analyse your system and install any additional required packages for you automatically. It will also perform other important steps on confirmation, such as opening relevant ports in the firewall and making sure the necessary services are started automatically.

== Connecting to ThinLinc ==

At this point the basic installation of your server is complete. The ThinLinc Client Bundle is also downloadable from https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/download. Connections to the server can be made with the ThinLinc client, and you will be presented with a standard Unity desktop. 

== Further Configuration ==

ThinLinc comes with a web-based administration interface, which by default is available at port 1010 on the ThinLinc server. Most configuration can be done using this interface - official documentation can be found at <nowiki>[[https://www.cendio.com/resources/docs/tag/|this link]]</nowiki>.

== Questions, Support and Feedback ==

You can contact Cendio with questions at https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/support. The following links may also be of interest:

* The official Cendio mailing lists - https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/docs/mailing-lists
* ThinLinc on Facebook - http://facebook.com/ThinLinc
* ThinLinc on Google+ - http://plus.google.com/+CendioThinLinc
* ThinLinc on Twitter - http://twitter.com/ThinLinc

----
CategoryInternet CategoryNetworking CategoryInstallation CategoryThirdPartySoftware
