{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Welcome to the entry-point for Ubuntu on Lenovo ThinkPad laptops.

== ThinkPad model support matrix ==

=== Edge ===

=== L Series ===

=== SL Series ===

=== T Series ===

* <nowiki>[[T60|T60]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[T61|T61]]</nowiki>

=== W Series ===

=== X Series ===

* <nowiki>[[X120e|X120e]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[X61T|X61T]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[X220|X220]]</nowiki>

== TP-SMAPI ==

Thinkpads have an accelerometer that can sense if you drop your laptop and make the hard drive brace for impact. To enable this, install the <nowiki>[[apt:tp-smapi-dkms,hdapsd|tp-smapi-dkms and hdapsd]]</nowiki> packages. Then load the tp-smapi kernel module
<pre>
sudo modprobe tp-smapi
</pre>
Then restart hdapsd
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/hdapsd restart
</pre>

== See Also ==

Other official Ubuntu documentation and support pages that are specific to ThinkPads.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/make/Lenovo|Ubuntu Certified - Lenovo]]</nowiki> - List of Ubuntu-certified Lenovo models.
* <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/en/man4/acpi_ibm.4freebsd.html|acpi_ibm package man page]]</nowiki> - ACPI drivers package specific for IBM laptops.
* <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/man1/thinkfan.1.html|Thinkfan man page]]</nowiki> - A simple ThinkPad-specific fan control program.
* <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/thinkpad|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Questions related to ThinkPad on Ask Ubuntu.

== External Links ==

If you can't find what you're looking for in the Ubuntu wiki, try one of these external resources.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/ThinkWiki|ThinkWiki]]</nowiki> - Distro agnostic wiki for Linux on ThinkPad laptops.
* <nowiki>[[http://www-307.ibm.com/pc/support/site.wss/MIGR-48NT8D.html|Lenovo Linux Support]]</nowiki> - Official list of Linux certified Lenovo laptops.
