{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== PCMCIA ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| LW051
| Atheros
| Madwifi
| Ues
| Automatically recognized in Ubuntu Gutsy.
| 2007-12-01
|-
| LW056
| Marvel 88W8335 + 88W8010
| ?
| No
| Not recognized in Gutsy
| 2007-12-01
|}

== PCI ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| ?
| Atheros
| Madwifi
| No
| Automatically detected and set up as ath0. Was unable to detect the  ESSID of a BT Home Hub but was able to connect and gain an IP via DHCP when details entered manually using System > Networking menu in Edgy. Booting with the card installed starts automatically. Card was added to an already installed system.
| 2007-03-08
|-
| LW057 v2
| RTL8185
| RTL8180
| No
| Works with the RTL8180 driver, but the range is pretty poor though.
| 2010-05-05
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| LW143
| ?
| ndiswrapper
| No
| Works after using ndiswrapper + wlanuig.inf, at system boot very long delay on Initialising Network interfaces, system hangs after undetermined period of use.
| 2005-00-00
|-
| LW053
| 
| rt2750wf
| No
| Almost works out of the box on Gusty (7.10) with WPA and WEP - but keeps dropping connection. Only DHCP working so far. Works with WEP with rt73 driver from serialmonkey following <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=400236|this]]</nowiki> guide.
| 2008-03-20
|-
| LW053
| Raylink RT2501usb- ID 148f:rt2573
| rt73usb
| Yes
| Ok 8.10
| 
|}

----
CategoryHardware CategoryWireless
