{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== PCMCIA ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| 5410
| ?
| acx111
| No
| Running Ubuntu 6.06 Dapper Drake. Detected card immediately and showed as active in Network Settings, but unable to connect to access point. Follow instructions in this thread http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75448&highlight=5410 and everything seems to work just fine!
| 2007-01-13
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| USR5423
| ?
| zd1211rw
| Yes
| Works flawless with 7.10.
| 2007-12-02
|-
| 5420
| 0baf:0111
| ?
| No
| The latest ndiswrapper release source must be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/ndiswrapper/]]</nowiki> and the directions for building <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Driver-Ndiswrapper]]</nowiki> followed while replacing ndiswrapper-1.1 with the version downloaded (i.e. latest at time of writing = ndiswrapper-1.5); everything works except the signal strength monitor, probably because it gets compiled against version 17 of the wireless extensions instead of 18; lastly, you'll probably need to install gcc3.4 using Synaptic otherwise build will fail
| 2005-11-01
|-
| MAXg 5421
| ?
| ndiswrapper
| No
| On Feisty, the udev rule should be: SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idProduct}=="011b", ATTR{idVendor}=="0baf", ATTR{bConfigurationValue}="1". Value 011b depends on product (use lsusb command). Works fine with USR5421X.inf and networkmanager.
| 2007-07-16
|}
----
CategoryWireless
