{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== Other ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset''
| ''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| C54RC
| rt2500
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/RalinkRT2500|rt2500]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Tested on Breezy.
| 2005-10-23
|-
| C54RC version 2.0
| rt61
| rt61pci
| Yes
| Works in Gutsy due to inclusion of the rt2x00 drivers in-kernel.
| 2007-11-12
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset''
| ''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| C54RU version 2.0
| rt73
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/RalinkRT73|rt73usb]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| This works in Hardy due to inclusion of the rt2x00 drivers in-kernel.
| 2008-08-07
|}
