{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== PCMCIA ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| WL-112
| RT2500
| RT2500
| No
| Works fine in Dapper after inserting right ESSID
| 2006-09-27
|-
| WL-170
| ?
| ?
| No
| Causes Hardy Heron to lock up
| 2008-06-15
|}

== PCI ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| WL-181 XR
| RT2860
| ?
| Yes
| Only tested on Karmic Koala. Supports Ad-Hoc, Managed, and Monitor mode.
| 2010-04-10
|}

= USB = 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| WL-352
| Realtek RTL8191SU
| r8712u
| Yes
| Tested with Oneiric.
| 2012-02-21
|-
| WL-608 (v1 002)
| ?
| ?
| Yes
| Works in Maverick.
| 2010-11-14
|}
