{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== PCI ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| ENLWI-N
| Ralink RT2860
| ndiswrapper
| No
| Native driver source available from manufacturer website - difficult configuration. Windows drivers work with ndiswrapper. Supports WPA/WPA2 through ndiswrapper.
| 2008-06-19
|-
| ENLWI-G
| Marvell 88w8335
| ndiswrapper
| No
| Incomplete (not working) native driver mrv8k, but it works with windows drivers via ndiswrapper (official support files <nowiki>[[http://www.encore-usa.com/br/support/ENLWI-G|here]]</nowiki>). It is recommended to follow the instructions for installing Netgear WG311 v3 <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Netgear_WG311_v3|here]]</nowiki>, since they share the same chipset and driver. For 64 bit systems, it is important to follow the instructions found in this <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320111|thread]]</nowiki>, otherwise the installation may work but will be susceptible to random freezes (tested in maverick with kernel 2.6.35-25)
| 2011-02-26
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| ENUWI-SG
| ar5523
| ?
| No
| Native driver source available at http://wiki.debian.org/ar5523 further detail on http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10499585&postcount=10. Windows drivers won't work with ndiswrapper. Supports WEP, seems limited to 1Mb/s, doesn't report signal strength of Network Manager. The driver causes occasional system freezing. Tested on Natty amd64.
| 2011-07-26
|}
