{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== PCMCIA ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| ZEW1501
| ?
| rt2500
| No
| This card does not want to hotplug, so you have to plug it in and restart the computer, and then activate in network settings.
| 2006-01-01
|}

== PCI ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| Zonet ZEW1642D
| Ralink Rt3062
| rt2860/rt3562sta
| No
| Use <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~someitalian123/+archive/rt3562sta|this]]</nowiki> ppa to install the correct driver.
| 2012-1-22
|-
| ZEW1601
| ?
| rt2500
| No
| See <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Driver-RalinkRT2500]]</nowiki>.
| 2005-10-21
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| ZEW2501
| ?
| zd1211b / zd1211rw
| No
| Works in Feisty, but is not recognized by NetworkManager. Must manually configure with iwconfig.
| 2007-05-26
|}
