{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== PCMCIA ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| SMCWCB-G
| ?
| ath_pci/ath_hal
| No
| Run 'update-pciids' otherwise the card will not be recognized
| 2006-1-1
|}

== PCI ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| SMCWPCI-GM EU
| Ralink RT2600
| RT61
| No
| It works fine with 7.04.
| 2007-4-22
|-
| SMCWPCI-G
| ?
| ath_pci/ath_hal
| No
| Edgy Eft Before I installed the card, Ubuntu worked fine.  After I installed it, Ubuntu wouldn't boot. The bootstrap process would hang with three segments of the progress bar showing, and never progress any further.
| 1/26/2007
|-
| SMCW2802W AP
| Intersil ISL3886
| prism54pci
| Yes
| Works in 8.10.
| 2009-04-04
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| SMCWUSB-G
| zydas
| ZD1211B
| Yes
| It works with the kernel-image-2.6.20-16-gereric upgrade.
| 2007-9-01
|}

== Other ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| SMC2632W V2
| ?
| atmel_cs
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| SMC2635W
| ADM8211
| ?
| No
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/adm8211|adm8211]]</nowiki>
| 2009-12-30
|-
| SMC2835W V2
| ?
| prism54
| Yes
| The V2 part is important!
| 
|}
