{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== How To Install the Pixus 560i Printer ==
* Note: This will only work in Edgy and Feisty and these drivers will also work for the Pixus 860i and 960i. Just make sure that you pick the right driver for your printer.

1) You need to add this repository to your source list. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories?action=show&redirect=AddingRepositoriesHowto|Adding Repositories]]</nowiki>
   <pre>
deb http://mambo.kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~takushi/ubuntu ./
   </pre>
After you you do that you need to update your source list.

2) Next you need to install libcnbj-2.4, bjfilter-2.4, and the  pstocanonbj packages.

3) Cupsys will be automatically restarted and you can select your printer in cupsys configuration which is
<nowiki>[[http://localhost:631|CUPS Web Configuration]]</nowiki> or if you don't want to do that you can go to System>Administration>Printer>Add Printer.

=== Installing Printer through CUPS Web Configuration ===
First thing you do is click on add a printer. The next screen will ask you for the name of you printer, location, and description the only thing you really have to fill in is the name. After you done filling in the information click continue. The next page  asks you to select your printer. Hit continue and then it will ask you for your driver, select the Canon Pixus xxx ver.2.4 (en) then click on add printer.

=== Install Printer through system-config-printer ===
1) Click on add printer, a new window will open up that says add a printer at the top and Step 1 of 3: Printer connection. As long as your printer is turned on it should show up in "Use a detected printer", if it doesn't you can select it in "Use another printer by speciying a port" and selecting your printer then click forward.

2) The next page is where you select the printer driver. The manufacturer is Canon if it already isn't selected and the Driver is Pixus xxx ver.2.4 then click forward. 

3)Finally the next screen is the printer information you don't really have to worry about filling in the rest of the information if you don't want to just click "Apply" and now your printer should show up under printers.

==== Reference ====
http://mambo.kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~takushi/

----
CategoryHardware
