{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wifi Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Summary ==

* Model - This is the full device model as noted on the box.
* Chipset - Chipset vendor name, chipset name, vendor code, and device code. For example, if one was looking for a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep Network
04:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8188CE 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter [10ec:8176] (rev 01)
</pre> It's the ''''Realtek'''', ''''RTL8188CE'''', and ''''[10ec:8176] (rev 01)''''.
* Driver - For a PCI device: <pre>
lspci -vvnn | grep -A 9 Network | grep Kernel
	Kernel driver in use: rtl8192ce
</pre> It's the ''''rtl8192ce''''.
* Works "out of the box"
** Yes - It works perfectly with no manual modifications, or degraded performance.
** No - It doesn't work at all, has degraded performance, or requires manual configuration to make it work. Please add a comment to what you had to do to get it to work if this was possible, as well as a URL to an outstanding Launchpad bug report to address the issues encountered.

== CardBus ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| HWC54G Rev T
| ?
| acx111? or ndiswrapper
| No
| Copy <code>FwRad16.bin</code> from driver CD in to /lib/hotplug/firmware and '''remove all other firmwares''' from that directory. Note that filename is case sensitive. Just work on Hardy Heron but without WPA support. TNET1130.INF works.
| 2008-09-17
|}

== PCI ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| HWP54G (Rev. R)
| RT2500
| rt2500 ''or'' ndiswrapper
| No
| Works with rt2500, however, at least as of 9.04, the rt2500 driver is intolerably slow. Recommend using ndiswrapper (see http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=699583).
| 2009-09-26
|}

== PCMCIA ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| HWC54D
| ?
| rt2500
| Yes
| Works out of the box in Dapper.
| 2006-05-29
|}

== USB ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Model'''
| '''Chipset'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Works "out of the box"'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| HWL-2
| Zydas 1211
| ?
| No
| use driver at <nowiki>[[http://www.zydas.com.tw/downloads/download-1211.asp]]</nowiki>.
| 2005-10-04
|-
| HWUG1A
| Ralink 2573
| ?
| Yes
| Works out of the box in 8.04
| 2008-10-16
|-
| HWU8DD (Rev. B)
| ZD1211 11bg WLAN USB2
| ?
| Yes
| Works out of the box in 10.04.
| 2010-06-10
|}

----
CategoryWireless
