{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
This is a howto for installing the Canon Pixma iP2200 printer and related printers on Ubuntu 6.06 (Dapper Drake) using the Canon supplied drivers.  Some or all parts may work for other Canon printers.  For the iP4200, (and some others), see: <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-CanonPrinters-CanonPixmaIP4200]]</nowiki>

Note: This manual also works for the following printers:
Canon IP1600 using the IP2200 drivers.

This does not work for AMD64. Doesn't seem to work for Intel64 either. See: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1625697 (alien not working with i386 rpms on x64 architectures)

== Installation ==
Note: You will have to accept Canon's license agreement to download the software.

1.  Connect your printer, and start Ubuntu.

2.  Install the needed packages: alien, libpng12-0, libpng12-dev, libgtk1.2 and libgtk1.2-common with Synaptic or type:
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install alien libpng12-0 libpng12-dev libgtk1.2 libgtk1.2-common</pre>
(libxml1 used to be in this list but it no longer exists in the repository (after hardy i think) and doesn't seem to be necessary, hence its removal.)

3.  Download the drivers for your printer from Canon.  For the purposes of this howto, we will assume that the files are saved to the directory /home/yourname/canon.

The iP2200 drivers are here: http://software.canon-europe.com/software/0024301.asp
or type in a terminal
<pre>
mkdir canon
cd canon
wget http://software.canon-europe.com/files/soft24301/software/iP2200_Linux_260.tar.gz </pre>

4.  Extract the files with archive manager
or type
<pre>
tar -xvzf iP2200_Linux_260.tar.gz
</pre>

5.  Convert the RPM packages to Debian packages:
<pre>
sudo alien cnijfilter-common-2.60-1.i386.rpm cnijfilter-ip2200-2.60-1.i386.rpm
</pre>

6.  Install the packages:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i *.deb</pre>

7.  Make sure the library links are correct.  /usr/lib/libtiff.so.3 should point to /usr/lib/libtiff.so.4 (or to the same thing as /usr/lib/libtiff.so.4 points to)
If not, type:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/libtiff.so.4 /usr/lib/libtiff.so.3
</pre>
This is the important part!  The iP2200 driver wants to use libtiff.so.3, but that is an old version.  We fix this by making libtiff.so.3 a link to libtiff.so.4.

Also, /usr/lib/libpng.so.3 should point to /usr/lib/libpng.so. If not, type:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/libpng.so /usr/lib/libpng.so.3
</pre>

and /usr/lib/libxml.so.1 should point to /usr/lib/libxml2.so.2. If not, type:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/libxml2.so.2 /usr/lib/libxml.so.1
</pre>

And finally make the loader aware of the changes:
<pre>
sudo ldconfig
</pre>

8.  Restart cups:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/cups restart 
</pre>

9.  Add a new printer.  Under GNOME, this is accessed in System|Preferences|Printing.

For Jaunty and newer versions of Ubuntu: 
Click "New" and install the printer as per normal, (click on the IP2200 then click forward and apply). Right click on the printer, go to properties then "Change.." under "Make and Model:". Choose "Provide PPD file" and select /usr/share/cups/model/canonip2200.ppd. Click finish and it should work.

For older versions of ubuntu:  Select Canon as the manufacturer, click on "Install Driver..." and select /usr/share/cups/model/canonip2200.ppd. Now select "iP2200 Ver.2.60" under "Model". Select "Standard" for the driver (this should be the only option).  Make sure the connection is correct.

Hopefully, printing a test page will work!

== Advanced Features ==
Unfortunately, the installed PPD file doesn't allow you to select the printing quality. To fix this, back up your ppd file, then open it as root:
<code>gksudo gedit /etc/cups/ppd/iP2200-Ver.2.60.ppd </code>

Insert these lines in the file after the "Resolution" section:
<pre>
* OpenUI *CNQuality/Quality: PickOne
* DefaultCNQuality: 3
* CNQuality 2/High: "2"
* CNQuality 3/Normal: "3"
* CNQuality 4/Standard: "4"
* CNQuality 5/Economy: "5"
* CloseUI: *CNQuality
</pre>

The following gives a greater choice of print resolution if added to the "Resolution" section, but I am not clear whether the Quality setting impinges upon this. Note that the ip2200 only offers 600dpi in black and white.

<pre>
* Resolution 1200/1200 dpi: "<</HWResolution[1200 1200]>>setpagedevice"
* Resolution 2400/2400 dpi: "<</HWResolution[2400 2400]>>setpagedevice"
* Resolution 4800/4800 dpi: "<</HWResolution[4800 4800]>>setpagedevice"
</pre>

(from http://gentoo-wiki.com/Canon_Pixma_Series)

N.b. neither of these modifications is done in the unofficial packages provided by: http://mambo.kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~takushi/

After this, restarting cups should enable the changes <code>sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart</code>

To perform maintenance on the printer, such as head cleaning, type in a terminal:
<code>cngpij -P iP2200-Ver.2.60</code>

You may want to add this to your menu, since it is a real pain to remember.
In the window that pops up, select "Maintenance".

----
CategoryHardware
