{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters/CanonPrinters|CanonPrinters]]</nowiki>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

This is an alternative approach to several blogs on how to use the Canon MP620 printer with Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) across a WiFi network.  Much of this information has been copied from blogs on the web (see References for credit).

== Connecting via USB cable ==

Currently it is not easily possible to enter a WiFi security token to access a WLAN router directly on the printer. Because of that you may want to setup the Canon printer by:

* using the Windows driver to assign and transfer the correct connection details for your WLAN router
* directly connecting the printer via LAN cable with your network
* typing the printer's IP address into a web browser 

This procedure has only been tested having previously set up the printer via Windows.

1. First you need to get the drivers provided by <nowiki>[[http://support-au.canon.com.au/EN/search?v%3aproject=ABS-EN&binning-state=model%3d%3dPIXMA%20MP610%0Amenu%3d%3dDownload%0Aos%3d%3dLinux&|Canon Australia]]</nowiki> and install them into your system. Those files are called:
** <code>cnijfilter-common_2.80-1_i386.deb</code>
** <code>cnijfilter-mp610series_2.80-1_i386.deb</code>
1. When you have those package files, install them onto your system in the order shown above. You can install each package by double-clicking it.
  '''Note:''' As of Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala, you will need to install the transitional package "libcupsys2" to fulfill the dependencies of the Canon drivers. The package is available here: <nowiki>[[http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/c/cups/libcupsys2_1.3.9-17ubuntu3.9_all.deb|libcupsys2_1.3.9-17ubuntu3.9_all.deb]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1345276|Originally discussed on the Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>.)
# The MP620 and MP630 support the Canon MP610 printer driver, but the print parameters required a little "tune up" by Nicolas (<nowiki>[[http://mp610.blogspot.com/2009/01/new-mp620-and-mp630-printers-ppds.html|see here for details]]</nowiki>). <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=210977|Download the updated MP620 files from here]]</nowiki>.
# Unpack the archive and follow the instructions from the README file to install the files into the right places on your system. The instructions from the README file require you to copy the file <code>Cifmp610.conf</code> onto your system.
  '''Note:''' From version 1.5 of the drivers supplied from the community, they don't need the MP620 1399 line added to the cifmp610.conf file.
# Copy the file to the location specified in the README file. This will replace the original file provided by Canon.
# Attach the MP620 via USB cable with your computer.
# Click '''System -> Administration -> Printing'''. You should see the MP620 as a locally attached printer. You can print a test page right from here. If that is working verify the correct installation by printing a PDF file.

Unfortunately Canon drivers use a proprietary USB backend to access '''only''' the USB port. It cannot be used in conjunction with a network backend, like the bjnp backend.  The only way Nicolas (see References) saw how to have MP620 work with bjnp network is to use a Gutenprint driver from the community, such as that for the MP610.

== Connecting via wireless or network cable ==

The following process assumes that you have your Ubuntu computer and Canon printer connected via WiFi to your WiFi router. 

1. A good preparatory step is to use your DHCP server to locate the IP address assigned to the printer and make it a permanent assignment. This can also be done by connecting to the IP address of your printer via a web browser.
  '''Note:''' If you are using a small WiFi home network you can simply assign a high numbered IP address to the printer, ie, 192.168.1.150
1. Get the CUPS-bjnp drivers from  <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/cups-bjnp/|SourceForge]]</nowiki>. This procedure was tested using the version 0.5 drivers. In documenting this process, the following files were downloaded:
** <code>cups-bjnp-0.5-1.c5.i386.rpm</code>
** <code>cups-bjnp-debuginfo-0.5-1.c5.i386.rpm</code>
# Install the <nowiki>[[apt:alien|alien]]</nowiki> package. Alien converts .rpm packages to .deb packages.
# Open a Terminal ('''Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal'''). Type the following commands to convert the .rpm to the .deb format used by Ubuntu, install the package and remove the package file afterwards, typing your password if prompted:
  <pre>
sudo alien -i cups-bjnp-0.5-1.c5.i386.rpm
sudo alien -i cups-bjnp-debuginfo-0.5-1.c5.i386.rpm</pre>
# Open the CUPS Admin interface by opening either <nowiki>[[http://localhost:631/]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://127.0.0.1:631/]]</nowiki> in your web browser.
# In the CUPS Admin interface, click '''Administration -> Find Printer''' and select ''Canon MP620 series <ip-address>'' (where ''<ip-address>'' will depend on the IP address of your printer).
# Click '''Add Printer''', give it a name and push '''Continue'''.
# On the following screen you will be able to choose the '''Device'''. Pull down the list and select ''Canon MP620 series ip-address''.
# Click '''Continue''' and at the next screen select ''Canon MP620-630 series'' from the list.
  '''Note:''' Do NOT search for Canon PIXMA something, search for Canon MP620-630, without the PIXMA bit!
# When asked for a login and password, use whatever you configured CUPS to use. This is your Ubuntu username and password by default.
# Send a test page to the printer.

'''Note 1:'''  You may need to change the paper size in the CUPS printer setup box.  

'''Note 2:'''  The Canon printer URI built itself to form as bjnp://192.168.1.150:8611

And now you should have Bob as a very close relative .... '''Happy printing!!'''

== References ==

Credit and thanks must be extended to the following blogs:
* Mickru michael-krueger <nowiki>[[http://www.michael-krueger.org/2009/01/how-to-use-canon-pixma-mp620-with.html|Computers and Airplanes]]</nowiki>
* Nicolas - Paris <nowiki>[[http://mp610.blogspot.com/|http://mp610.blogspot.com/]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.nervous.it/2009/04/canon-pixma-mp620-wireless-on-ubuntu/|Luca Gibelli]]</nowiki>
* Louis Lagendijk
* Maxime Garcia

----
Category: HardwareSupportComponets
