{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Hive ===

Hive is a Digital Life Management System which runs on apache, mysql and php.  With it, you manage various aspects of your life using calendars and schedules.  It also lets you access your media such as music, pictures and eventually videos from virtually any internet connected computer in the world.

Hive was originaly named Ubuntu Center.

<nowiki>[[http://icenterx.info/index.php|Hive homepage]]</nowiki>

or if that link doesn't work try https://hive.bountysource.com/ 

This guide applies to Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake)

=== Installation of required packages ===

==== Enable the Universe repository ====

* <nowiki>[[Repositories-CommandLine| I am using Ubuntu server (command line)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AddingRepositoriesHowto| I am using a desktop]]</nowiki>

Use <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware| any method]]</nowiki> to install the following packages:

<pre> 
apache2 mysql-server php5 php5-gd php5-mysql id3v2 imagemagick libgd2-dev libgd2 php-auth
</pre>

==== Configure mysql database ====

Set a mysql-root password (not the same as a root password, but a password for mysql)

<pre>
mysql -u root

mysql> SET PASSWORD FOR 'root'@'localhost' = PASSWORD('yourpassword');
</pre>

You should now have a functional LAMP stack.  Now create a database, username and password

<pre>
mysql> GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, CREATE, DROP, INDEX, ALTER, CREATE TEMPORARY TABLES, LOCK TABLES ON center.* TO 'yourusername'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'yourpassword';
</pre>

You may need to reload apache's configuration if you have not done so since installing LAMP.

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
</pre>

Visit <nowiki>[[ApacheMySQLPHP|Apache PHP MySQL]]</nowiki> for more information on LAMP.

=== Install Hive ===

<pre>
wget --no-check-certificate https://files.bountysource.com/file/download/137/ubuntucenter-alpha-01.deb

sudo dpkg -i ubuntucenter-alpha-01.deb
</pre>

You should now have a functional hive!  Point your browser to localhost/center.  

You will be asked for the name of the mysql database, the user and password.  After Hive is installed, you will be prompted to remove the installer.  Click on the link to do so.

=== Configuration ===

==== Photos ====
Put photos in /home/Shared/Pictures.  Use subfolders for galleries.

'''Example:'''

''/home/Shared/Pictures/beach''

==== Music ====
Put music in /home/Shared/Music. 

After putting your music in there goto the Ubuntu Center web interface and click Music from the Main Menu then from the Navbar goto Admin -> Catalog -> then add a new catalog in /home/Shared/Music and it will scan the specified directory for audio files. For more help with the music aspects of Ubuntu Center please see http://www.ampache.org

==== Bookmarks ====
You may want to import your Firefox bookmarks, to do that just click import on the bookmarks menu and select the exported firefox bookmarks.html file

==== Done! ====
By this point you should have a working install of Ubuntu Center.
----
