{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



There are several packages that add home security, home automation, and whole house multimedia distribution to your Ubuntu system. One package integrates all of the above.

== Introduction ==

Below are listed some new packages that provide integrated home surveillance and motion detection, home automation, and mulit-room multimedia sharing.

== LinuxMCE ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxmce.com|LinuxMCE]]</nowiki> is an integrated package that has been made as an add-on system to the Kubuntu distribution. Using LinuxMCE, a single media PC can act as a standalone Home Theater PC. Using multiple PCs, one PC can function as a Core server for all home multimedia, security, telephony, and automation needs, using a system of thin clients on peripheral PCs and devices over a home LAN.

No other integrated system is as powerful.

== Zoneminder ==

A package for <nowiki>[[http:-www.zoneminder.com|Zoneminder]]</nowiki> was introduced with Feisty. Zoneminder can allow surveillance camera monitoring, by remote IP viewing or over a home monitor, and recording to a hard drive. Motion detection and event triggering based on motion detection is allowed. It works with an X10 home automation system.

----
