{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== UNetbootin (Automated, graphical approach) ==

<nowiki>[[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/|UNetbootin for Mac OS X]]</nowiki> can be used to automate the process of extracting the Ubuntu ISO file to USB, and making the USB drive bootable. The resulting USB drive, however, can be booted on PCs only. If attempting to make a USB drive that can be booted from a Mac, follow the instructions below.

== Manual Approach ==

We would encourage Mac users to download Ubuntu Desktop Edition by burning a CD for the time being. But if you would prefer to use a USB, please follow the instructions below.

Note: this procedure requires an .img file that you will be required to create from the .iso file you download.

TIP: Drag and Drop a file from Finder to Terminal to 'paste' the full path without typing and risking type errors.

* Download the desired file
* Open the Terminal (in /Applications/Utilities/ or query '''Terminal''' in Spotlight)
* Convert the .iso file to .img using the convert option of ''hdiutil'' <pre>
hdiutil convert /path/to/ubuntu.iso -format UDRW -o /path/to/target.img
</pre>
* Note: OS X tends to put the .dmg ending on the output file automatically.
* Run <pre>
diskutil list
</pre> to get the current list of devices
* Insert your flash media
* Run <pre>
diskutil list
</pre>
 again and determine the device node assigned to your flash media (e.g. /dev/disk2)
* Run <pre>
diskutil unmountDisk /dev/diskN
</pre> (replace '''N''' with the disk number from the last command; in the previous example, N would be 2)
  If you see the error "Unmount of diskN failed: at least one volume could not be unmounted", start '''Disk Utility.app''' and unmount the volume (don't eject).
* Execute <pre>
sudo dd if=/path/to/downloaded.img of=/dev/diskN bs=1m
</pre>
 (replace /path/to/downloaded.img with the path where the image file is located; for example, ./ubuntu.img or ./ubuntu.dmg).
* Using ''/dev/rdisk'' instead of ''/dev/disk'' may be faster.
** If you see the error ''dd: Invalid number '1m','' you are using GNU dd. Use the same command but replace ''bs=1m'' with ''bs=1M''.
** If you see the error ''dd: /dev/diskN: Resource busy,'' make sure the disk is not in use. Start '''Disk Utility.app''' and unmount the volume (don't eject).
* Run <pre>
diskutil eject /dev/diskN
</pre>
 and remove your flash media when the command completes
* Restart your Mac and press '''alt''' while the Mac is restarting to choose the USB-Stick

== MacBook Air 3,2 ==
'''Please notice:''' While all of the info and above commands are executed properly on a MacBook Air 3,2 (that is the 2010 version 13" version of the Air) the end result will ''not'' produce a bootable USB device, at least not with the image for Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit. When booting of the USB device the following message or something similar will appear: ''"Missing operating system"'' and the process is auto-magically halted. 

To get the USB device (e.g. a USB stick) to ''show up'' at all in the boot menu you also may have to reboot/turn on/off the computer a couple of times and also ''resync'' the partition tables using rEFIt.
After doing this the USB should then appear as a bootable device while holding in the ''alt'' or ''c'' key when you are rebooting the computer. Notice that both the computers built in bootloader and rEFIt will identify the USB device as a Windows device, but that's not a problem and expected. 

A workaround to the-usb-device-is-not-booting-problem is to:
* Install rEFIt.
* Create a bootable start disk using Ubuntu and a USB stick.
* Create a separate partition on the Airs HD.
* dd the whole USB stick to that partition.
* Resync with rEFIt. Turn power off and on.
* Select Pingo/Windows logo: Install should start. (Here you might want to press F6 to change parameters, e.g. use nomodeset)

Alternatively, burning a CD and installing via an external CD-drive will work fine on the Macbook Air 3,2.

== Other procedure ==

(Moved from <nowiki>[[Installation-FromUSBStick]]</nowiki>)

We would encourage Mac users to download Ubuntu Desktop Edition by burning a CD for the time being. But if you would prefer to use a USB, please follow the instructions below.
Note: this procedure requires an `.img` file that you will be required to create from the `.iso` file you download.
TIP: Drag and Drop a file from Finder to Terminal to 'paste' the full path without typing and risking type errors.

* Download the desired file

* Open the Terminal (in `/Applications/Utilities/` or query Terminal in Spotlight)

* Convert the `.iso` file to `.img` using the `convert` option of `hdiutil` (e.g., `hdiutil convert -format UDRW -o ~/path/to/target.img ~/path/to/ubuntu.iso`)
Note: OS X tends to put the `.dmg` ending on the output file automatically.

* Run `diskutil list` to get the current list of devices

* Insert your flash media

* Run `diskutil list` again and determine the device node assigned to your flash media (e.g., `/dev/disk2`)

* Run `diskutil unmountDisk /dev/diskN` (replace `N` with the disk number from the last command; in the previous example, `N` would be `2`)

* Execute `sudo dd if=/path/to/downloaded.img of=/dev/rdiskN bs=1m` (replace `/path/to/downloaded.img` with the path where the image file is located; for example, `./ubuntu.img` or `./ubuntu.dmg`).

* Using `/dev/rdisk` instead of `/dev/disk` may be faster.

* If you see the error `dd: Invalid number '1m'`, you are using GNU dd. Use the same command but replace `bs=1m` with `bs=1M`.

* If you see the error `dd: /dev/diskN: Resource busy`, make sure the disk is not in use. Start the 'Disk Utility.app' and unmount (don't eject) the drive.

* Run `diskutil eject /dev/diskN` and remove your flash media when the command completes

* Restart your Mac and press Alt while the Mac is restarting to choose the USB-Stick
