{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Reformatting A Partition ==
There are times when you might desire to reformat a partition to another type of filesystem, or that was formatted to the incorrect filesystem by accident.  This can be accomplished through the use of GPartEd or most any other partitioning tool.  Any partition except for an extended partition may be reformatted to any other filesystem type that you desire.
 
 <!> Be aware that reformatting a partition will destroy any data existing on the partition.  Be sure to back up any data you want to save before reformatting.
 
Formatting an unformatted partition or reformatting an existing partition with GPartEd can be accomplished as follows:
 
 1. Select the partition you wish to reformat by right clicking either on the graphical display or on the line below it that corresponds to the partition that you wish to reformat.
 
  1. If the partition is mounted, you must unmount it first.  Click on the "Unmount" option in the menu.
 
 1. Position your cursor over "Format to:" in the menu.  A second menu will appear with filesystems to which you can format the selected partition.
 
 1. Click on the filesystem to which you want to format your partition.  This will set the job up to be done and show the pending changes in a window at the bottom of the Partition Editor.
 
 1. When you are sure that you have the correct filesystem selected and wish to apply the changes, click the "Apply" button at the top to apply the changes.

<nowiki>[[..-DeletePartition|Next Page - Deleting A Partition]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[..-|Main Page]]</nowiki>
