{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Installing Edubuntu Standalone ==

To make a stand alone installation of Edubuntu, you will need:
* A computer that meets the <nowiki>[[StandAloneHardware|hardware requirements]]</nowiki> for Edubuntu standalone.
* A keyboard and monitor.
* An Edubuntu install CD for your type of computer (architecture).  You can order free CDs using <nowiki>[[http://shipit.edubuntu.com|Shipit]]</nowiki>, or <nowiki>[[http://releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.06/|download]]</nowiki> and burn your own.
* These instructions.

A mouse or trackball is optional, but extremely useful.

=== Boot to the Edubuntu install CD ===

Put the CD in your CD drive, shut down the computer, then turn it back on, you should see the Edubuntu logo and install options appear on your screen. 

If this does not work, shut down the computer again and carefully watch the messages that are displayed when you turn your computer on.  Some computers require you to tell them that you want to boot to a CD instead of to your hard drive.  If this is the case, your computer's start-up messages will tell you what button(s) to press to boot to CD.

'''Option one:''' Look for a message that contains the words "CD", "boot", and/or "media" and a button or buttons to push.  It will be similar (but not necessarily identical) to one of the following:

** Press [F12] to change boot order.
** Boot CD/DVD: F2
** Press and hold <Del> to boot removable media.
** Press Ctrl+B to choose boot media

Pressing the button(s) when asked will give you a list of things you can boot.  Choose the drive your Edubuntu CD is in.

'''Option two:''' Look for a message that contains the words "BIOS", "options", "set-up", or "configure", as well as a button or buttons to press.  It will look similar (but not necessarily identical) to one of the following:

** Press the Del key to enter set-up.
** Press [Esc] for options.
** Press F4 now to enter BIOS configuration.

Pressing the correct button(s) when asked will bring up a configuration screen.  Each computer is slightly different, so just read the displayed information and find the option to boot from your CD drive first.  Make certain that the hard drive boots after the CD drive, or your new Edubuntu system will not boot properly after it is installed.

Note: Often, these start-up messages scroll by so quickly that by the time you've read which button to press, it is too late!  Don't worry.  Just shutdown the computer and turn it on again.  When the message comes up this time, you will be ready. :)

=== Make sure your Edubuntu install CD is complete and undamaged ===

Sometimes a CD gets scratched or marked, or there is an error while burning it.  To prevent installation problems, it is wise to give the CD a check-up before installing from it.  Use your arrow keys, or the Tab key to highlight "Check CD for defects" and press Enter.

Your computer will load some tools it needs, and then you will see:  "Warning: this check depends on your hardware and may take some time.  Check CD-ROM integrity?"

Use your tab or arrow keys to highlight <Yes> and press Enter.  This is usually a good time to go grab a snack. ;)

If your CD passes its check-up, you will see:  "Integrity test successful.  The CD-ROM integrity test was successful.  The CD-ROM is valid."

'''*****If you do not see the success message, do not use the CD!  Get a new one.  Damaged or faulty CDs will not work properly and may cause your computer not to function.*****'''

When you see the success message, press Enter to continue.  You will end up back at the "Warning: this check..." message.  You are done, so choose <No> to reboot.

If you had to press a button to boot your CD last time, you will need to do so again.

=== You are now ready to install Edubuntu ===

Choose "Install a workstation" to begin installing Edubuntu.  Your computer will load some tools it needs.

=== [!!] Choose language ===

Use your arrow keys to select the language you would like the installer to use, and press Enter.

The next screen asks what country you are in.  Highlight your country and press Enter, or choose "other" if your country is not listed.

=== [!] Select keyboard layout ===

The Edubuntu installer will guess what kind of keyboard your computer has.  If you are sure it is correct, just press Enter.

If the layout shown is incorrect, you may choose "Find your layout by pressing some keys" and follow the on-screen instructions to help Edubuntu learn what type of keyboard you have.

If you already know the name of your keyboard layout, you may choose "Select from full keyboard list" to do just that.

If you would like to double-check that you have chosen the correct keyboard layout, choose "Test whether this layout is correct" and type a few letters, numbers, and symbols in the space provided.

Use the tab or arrow keys to select <Continue> and press Enter.

If your typing displayed correctly during the test, you should now highlight the keyboard name on this screen and press Enter.

If the test looked wrong, you should choose "Find your layout by pressing some keys" and then test again when done.

Once your layout has been confirmed, your computer will take a closer look at your CD-ROM drive and prepare for the rest of the installation.

=== [!!] Configure the network ===

The Edubuntu installer will now ask you to choose the network connection to use for the installation.  If you are not sure which to choose, try the interface that the installer has highlighted for you.  (If this turns out to be incorrect, you can always go back and try again.)

A network connection is optional.  If you do not have one, you will not be able to download updates to software packages at the end of the install process, but you can still install all of the great software found on your Edubuntu install CD.

If your only network connection is in a cafe or library, you may not be able to use this connection to install and update from.  These connections often require that you visit a local web page from your computer and enter a password or agree to a usage policy before connecting to the internet.  This is okay!  Just perform the installation without a network connection, and then add the connection after you boot to your new Edubuntu system.  More details on this can be found in the following chapter "Post-Installation Information."

If you are using a wireless network, the installer will ask you for a WEP key.  If you do not know what this is, you probably don't need one and can just choose <Continue>.

The installer will try to detect your network settings for you.  However, in some cases this is not possible, and the installer will prompt you for an IP address, netmask, and gateway.  The person who manages your network will know what the correct settings are.  For a small home network, some good guesses are:

IP: 192.168.0.something or 192.168.1.something, where "something" is a whole number between 2 and 254
netmask: 255.255.255.0
gateway: 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.1.1

Still not sure?  If you have another computer on this network, look at its network settings and use the same netmask and gateway.  Set the IP so that the first three numbers are identical but set the last number slightly higher than the other computer.  For example, if the other computer's IP is 192.168.1.100 you might try 192.268.1.105.

=== [!!] Choose a mirror of the Ubuntu archive ===

This section asks for proxy information.  If you are unsure, you probably don't need a proxy.  In this case, just choose <Continue>.

=== [!!] Partition Disks ===

In this step, you tell the Edubuntu installer how to set up your computer's hard drive.

Most people will want to choose the second option, "Erase entire disk:..."  ''This will erase everything on your hard disk'' and use the entire hard disk for your new Edubuntu system.

If you plan to dual-boot Edubuntu and another operating system, you probably want to choose the first option, "Resize..."

Do not choose the third or fourth options, "Erase entire disk and use LVM..." and "Manually edit..." unless you are sure you know what you are doing with them.

The next screen will tell you about the changes being made to your hard disk.  Select <Yes> to continue.

If your hard drive is large, this is a good time to go look for a beverage to go with your snack. ;)

=== [!] Configure time zone ===

Select your time zone and press Enter.

=== [!!] Set up users and passwords ===

This section walks you through creating a log-in for your first user.  This user is the one responsible for installing and removing software, managing system-wide settings, and other maintenance.

Note:  If you have used other Linux distributions before, you may be expecting to create a root login password.  The user you are creating now is a normal user, but will have sudo privileges for package management and other tasks normally performed by root.  By default, logging in directly as root is disabled on Edubuntu.  If you don't know what this note means, just ignore it.  You won't think anything is weird. :)

Once this user has been created, the Edubuntu installer will load the Edubuntu operating system and a selection of great applications on to your hard disk.

Note:  The "Select and install software" progress bar stays at 5% for what seems like a very long time.  Don't worry, the install is still progressing normally.  The progress bar will move again after a few minutes.

=== [!!] Finish the installation ===

Take out your Edubuntu install CD and choose <Continue> to restart your computer and begin using your newly installed Edubuntu system.

'''Congratulations!'''

You now have a fully-functional Edubuntu system!

Enter the user name and password you created during the install process to log in.

Read [StandAloneWhatNow the post-installation chapter] to learn about adding users, keeping your software up to date, and other important ways to get and keep your new Edubuntu system in shape.
