{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Contributing to Edubuntu ==

Edubuntu is maintained by people just like you who use it and want to keep the project going strong.  We love our developers, but we need many other kinds of volunteers, too -- ''you do not have to be a computer programmer to contribute to Edubuntu''.

=== Are you a user? ===

Every day users and administrators turn to our community for support.  There may be a user out there who has a problem this week you learned to solve last week. You can help Edubuntu by <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|joining our mailing list]]</nowiki> and/or hanging out in #edubuntu on irc.freenode.net and helping users just like you.  You can also contribute to our wiki at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.edubuntu.org]]</nowiki>, or help us <nowiki>[[https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuTesting|test the latest Edubuntu-in-progress]]</nowiki>.

=== Are you a teacher, parent, or student? ===

We are always interested in hearing about how Edubuntu is working out there in the wide world.  <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|Join our mailing list]]</nowiki> and let us know about how you are using Edubuntu, what you like, and what you'd like to see improve.  Add to our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.edubuntu.org/TeacherRecommendedProjects|list of recommended projects]]</nowiki> so we know what kind of software you want to see in the future of Edubuntu.

=== Are you bi- (or more) lingual? ===

Edubuntu has users around the world, and we are always looking for volunteers to help translate web pages, documentation, and more.  Volunteer via our <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|email list]]</nowiki>.

=== Are you a writer, editor, or proofreader? ===

Introduce yourself <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|on our email list]]</nowiki> or visit <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org/help|this page]]</nowiki> to find out who our current documentation contact is and offer to lend a hand, or just jump in and help out with the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuDocumentation|documentation on our wiki]]</nowiki>.

=== Are you an artist? ===

Contribute some <nowiki>[[https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuArtwork|artwork]]</nowiki> to Edubuntu.

=== Are you a coder? ===

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|Join the mailing list]]</nowiki> or visit us on IRC (#edubuntu on irc.freenode.net) and see where your skills and interests lead you.  We are always in need of good coders.
