{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Sometimes you download a Sound''''''Font and it is compressed as a .sfArk or a .sfpack file. This page shows you how to de-compress these files.

==== Decompressing .sfArk Files ====

You can extract .sfArk files using the command-line application called <code>sfarkxtc</code>.

First, download and extract the utility:
<pre>
 cd ~/Studio/SoundFonts/
 mkdir sfark
 cd sfark
 wget http://falcony.googlecode.com/files/sfarkxtc_lx86.tar.gz
 tar -xzf sfarkxtc_lx86.tar.gz
</pre>

You will also require the older libstdc++5, so install that:
<code>sudo apt-get install libstdc++5</code>

Now, change to your Sound''''''Fonts directory, and then extract all of the .sfArk files.
<pre>
 cd ~/Studio/SoundFonts/
 for i in *.sf[Aa]rk ; do sfark/sfarkxtc "$i" && rm "$i" ; done
</pre>

That's all there is to it!

==== Decompressing .sfpack Files ====

Unfortunately, we don't know of a way to extract these SFPack compressed Sound``Font files in Linux without resorting to Wine.

Download the <nowiki>[[http://www.personalcopy.com/sfpack.htm|SFPack Win32]]</nowiki> utility, and put it in its own directory.

 cd ~/Studio/Sound``Fonts/
 wget ftp://ftp.personalcopy.net/pub/SFPack.zip
 unzip SFPack.zip
 rm SFPack.zip

Install Wine, if you haven't got it installed already.
 sudo apt-get install wine

You will need to configure it so that you have access to your ~/Studio/Sound``Fonts directory, or anywhere higher up than this.
 winecfg

I recommend you add a drive letter specifically for your ~/Studio directory.

After this, launch the SFPack utility:
 wine sfpack/SFPACK.EXE

* Click on the '''Add Files''' button.
* Select '''SFPack Files (*.SFPack)''' from the Files of Type dropdown.
* Browse to find your .sfpack file.
* Double-click on it.
* Finally, click on the '''Go!''' button on the toolbar.

Once this is complete, you will have the uncompressed file in the same directory as the .sfpack file.
