{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Evolution filters out spam e-mail using the ''spamassassin'' package.

=== Installation ===
SpamAssassin is not included with Evolution, but it is very easy to install using Synaptic or the command line.
* Open Synaptic using '''System -> Administration -> Synaptic Package Manager'''.
** Search for "''spamassassin''".
** Install "''spamassassin''" and any dependencies it requires.
* Or write in terminal
<pre>
   sudo apt-get install spamassassin
   </pre>

=== Set Up ===
Open Evolution and change two settings:
* '''Edit -> Plugins -> SpamAssassin junk plugin''' should be '''checked'''
* '''Edit -> Preferences -> Mail Preferences -> Junk'''
** '''Check incoming messages for junk''' should be '''checked'''
** '''Default junk plugin:''' should be '''Spamassasin''', with the note "''Spamassasin plugin is available and the binary is installed''"

=== Using SpamAssassin ===
While reading your e-mail, use the 'Junk' and 'Not Junk' buttons to train SpamAssassin. Be patient, it may take a week or two - SpamAssassin requires a minimum of 200 junk '''and non-junk''' messages to begin functioning.

Even after the filter begins to work, it's still learning. Make sure to check your 'Junk' folder occasionally, since some non-spam messages may have been miscategorized.

You ''can'' speed up the training process if you have a pool of known spam and known not-spam messages handy for training the filter. ''Tip'': Drag the non-spam messages into the ''empty'' junk folder, highlight the group, and click 'Not Junk'. Similarly, drag a bunch of spam into an empty in-box, highlight the group, and click 'Junk'.

=== Installing Other Filters ===
Other filters, such as Bogofilter, are available in the repositories. These can be used with Evolution, but the installation, setup, and use of each will vary.

=== Advanced SpamAssassin Options ===
SpamAssassin can be used with other mail clients, as a standalone application, or as a server for heavy-duty mailserver use. For more information on SpamAssassin's advanced options the man page is available in Terminal    
<pre>
man spamassassin
</pre>

----
CategoryEmail
