{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Hewlett Packard Printers are very well supported on GNU/Linux thanks to the <nowiki>[[http://hplipopensource.com/|HP Linux Imaging and Printing project]]</nowiki> (HPLIP). The HPLIP project includes binary printer drivers (HPIJS drivers) and tools for maintenance of your printer (checking of ink levels, cleaning and aligning cartridges, ...). Nearly every HP printer and PSC (Printer/Scanner/Copier) can be made to work thanks to this project.

The documents below describe the Ubuntu way for installing your printer in Ubuntu GNU/Linux 5.10 "Breezy Badger", 6.06 "Dapper Drake", and 7.04 "Feisty Fawn". It is targetted at direct connected USB or LPT (Parallel) printers and not at network printers.

== Installation ==
* <nowiki>[[HpAllInOne|HP All-in-One General Setup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[HPPrinterInstallation-PSC1210|HP PSC 1210v Installation Instructions]]</nowiki>
== known Bugs ==

Cp1025 laser printer requires installation via terminal to initiate administrator privileges on setup gui
<pre>
gksudo hp-setup
</pre>
It must be run using gksudo otherwise the downloaded pluggin will fail.

Further to this there is an ongoing issue where if colour print out is requested the black writing is blurry. This appears to be within the cups driver.

To resolve this and be able to print clear text when printing color documents- change printer so it is using
<pre>
HP LaserJet cp1025 hpijs, 3.12.2, requires proprietary plugin"
</pre>
'''' This Bug can be identified by perfect gray scale prints and distorted color print text-may affect other models '''''

----
CategoryHardware
