{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Circular Vibrating Screen earns this name by reason of its approximately circular movement. It is of multilayer and high efficiency. The eccentric shaft vibration exciter and partial block help to adjust amplitude. This kind of screen is of long streamline, many specifications and clear screening for different specifications.

 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: provide reasonable product selection and design,scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements, strict production process,on time delivery  

Working Features of Circular Vibrating Screen:

It uses eccentric block to produce strong exciting force. Crossbeam and the main body of the screen are connected with high strength screw bolts. So they have the features of simple structure and easy maintenance. It adopts tire clutch with capability of flexible connection and stable operation. It adopts the structure of small amplitude, high frequency, large obliquity to make the screen hold the capability of high efficiency, large handling capacity, long life span, low consumption, little noise. 

http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
