{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Lubuntu 16.10, Yakkety Yak, for distribution in October 2016. With this first beta you can get a glimpse of what the next version will contain. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information.

'''NOTE:''' This is the Beta 2 pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues.
* Anyone who needs a stable system.
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system.
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable.

Lubuntu Beta 2 pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs. You can find more about helping to test and bug triage at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing| Lubuntu testing]]</nowiki>.
* Lubuntu developers.
* People wanting to see and test how the current snapshot of Lubuntu 16.10 will look and behave.

=== Getting Lubuntu 16.10 Beta 2 ===

The full listing of available images is <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/yakkety/beta-2/ | here]]</nowiki>. You must <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check]]</nowiki> both the download and then the ''' check install media''' on 1st boot before attempting an install. Instructions for burning the image to a CD / DVD or copying to a USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

==== Upgrading from Previous Versions ====

The upgrade from Lubuntu 16.04 LTS works fine.

=== Beta 1 Highlights ===

* '''LXQt images are postponed until 17.04.'''
* This Yakkety Yak snapshot includes Linux Kernel v4.8.

----

== Known Problems ==

=== Lubuntu Applications ===
This is our list of known bugs affecting applications that Lubuntu uses but relies on others to maintain.

* gnumeric menu ->help ->about gnumeric -> license button, does not work. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnumeric/+bug/1516454 | 1516454]]</nowiki>).
* Software properties gtk implies my cpu is unknown and not working. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/+bug/1444682|1444682]]</nowiki>).

=== Lubuntu-specific Bugs ===
These are maintained by the Lubuntu team.

==== LXDE ====

* run dialog called from one desktop opens on the desktop with preferences dialog, regardless of which desktop is current (<nowiki>[[https://pad.lv/1445818|1445818]]</nowiki>).
* changing multiple desktop names only results in the first being changed. (<nowiki>[[https://pad.lv/1522625|1522625]]</nowiki>).

==== Lubuntu Desktop Installer ====

===== All images require a DVD or USB. =====

==== Lubuntu Alternate Installer ====

* from alternate lubuntu installs network manager does not manage devices or give network info (<nowiki>[[https://pad.lv/1617063|1617063]]</nowiki>)

'''All Alternate images now require a DVD or USB. As a workaround, use the 
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO#CD_image |server or netboot]]</nowiki> images.'''

PowerPC is only supported on Lubuntu LTS releases.

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 16.10, the Yakkety Yak, is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day. Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up-to-date. For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily created images for standard PCs, laptops and netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.

== Contributing back ==

Would you like to help make Lubuntu better? Go to our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/GettingInvolved|Getting Involved]]</nowiki> page to get started! You can help us test these releases, triage bugs, and a lot more!
