{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

The Final Beta of '''Ubuntu GNOME 16.10''' (codename "Yakkety Yak") is now available.  The development team is proud to offer this development milestone to encourage testing to ensure the final release is as good as possible.

Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 will be released '''October 13, 2016'''. This regular release will be supported for 9 months from October 2016 until July 2017. If you need longer support, we encourage you to use Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 LTS which is supported until April 2019.

Please note that you do not have to wait for a milestone to test Ubuntu. All of our <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/ |daily images]]</nowiki> from now until the release date are considered beta and should be usable with the usual warnings about pre-release software.

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 Final Beta ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.10/beta-2/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.10/beta-2/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta Highlights ==
=== Select GNOME changes since Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ===
* Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 proudly includes '''GNOME 3.20'''. Read the official 3.20 <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.20/|release notes]]</nowiki> to see what's new.
* Many apps have been updated to their '''GNOME 3.22''' versions. The core system (GTK+, gnome-shell, gnome-control-center and nautilus) is still at 3.20. See the <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/yakkety-desktop-amd64.manifest|manifest]]</nowiki> for specific version numbers of included software.
* Most GNOME apps now have a '''Keyboard Shortcuts''' popup available in the app menu.
* The '''Files''' app (nautilus) is now at version 3.20 which is a major visual upgrade from Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.
* Easily share to Google Photos with the '''Photos''' app (3.22). It is expected that future Ubuntu releases will support sharing photos to other online providers.
* The Photos app adds non-destructive editing.
* The '''Videos''' app (3.22) now supports adjusting the playback speed through the play menu in its bottom right corner.
* The '''Books''' app  (3.22) is re-enabled with initial support for the .epub format. The .djvu format is also supported.
* The '''Maps''' app supports contributing to <nowiki>[[https://www.openstreetmap.org/|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki>.
* '''Disk Usage Analyzer''' (3.22) has an improved front page.
* The instant messaging app '''Empathy''' is no longer installed by default for new installs but it is still available for install.
* The new '''Characters''' character map utility is installed by default. If you prefer the older version, install ''gucharmap''.
* GNOME's '''Initial Setup''' utility is included and enabled. It offers an easy way to configure language and online accounts integration on first login.

=== Other Software Updates ===
* '''!LibreOffice 5.2''' is included. Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 now uses the <nowiki>[[https://caolanm.blogspot.com/2016/02/native-gtk3-menubar-in-libreoffice.html|GTK3]]</nowiki> version by default.
* Update Manager now shows changelog entries for '''PPAs''' too (Bug:253119).
* The experimental '''wayland''' session is included. If your computer supports open source graphics drivers and you would like to try Wayland, choose ''GNOME on Wayland'' from the gear menu below the password entry from on the login screen.
* The older '''webkitgtk''' version 1 system library is no longer installed by default. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/webkit2gtk/|webkit2gtk]]</nowiki> is the more secure, better maintained version.
* For the first time, Ubuntu GNOME does not include '''Qt''' libraries by default. However, this may change in a future release for better <nowiki>[[https://bugs.debian.org/836534|theme integration]]</nowiki> with Qt.
* New default '''wallpapers''' are provided thanks to the winners of our <nowiki>[[https://ubuntugnome.org/1610-wallpaper-winners/|wallpaper contest]]</nowiki>.
* The '''gpg''' binary is now provided by <nowiki>[[https://debian-administration.org/users/dkg/weblog/116|gnupg2]]</nowiki>.
* Although Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 uses '''systemd user sessions''', support has been improved in 16.10.
* Many other bugs have been fixed. Where possible, many bug fixes have been backported to Ubuntu 16.04 LTS. Volunteers are requested to identify other bug fixes that can also be provided to 16.04 as <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates|Stable Release Updates]]</nowiki>.

== Known Bugs ==

=== New since Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ===
* Printer Settings window crashes (Bug:1618290)
* Initial Setup utility requires logging out and logging back in after selecting a keyboard layout. Alternatively, you can manually click your new chosen keyboard layout in the top bar.
* Initial Setup utility does not include language chooser (Bug:1614816).
* GTK+ 3.20 requires theme developers to make changes to their themes. Many (but not all) popular themes are now compatible with GTK+ 3.20.

=== Also affecting Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ===
* Systems using NVIDIA proprietary driver on hybrid (prime) systems might fail to boot (Bug:1559576).
* The prompt asking for media removal might not be shown during system shutdown from the install image (Bug:966480).

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu GNOME '''Yakkety Yak (16.10)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
