{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 16.10 Yakkety Yak Beta 1 ==

Please see <nowiki>[[YakketyYak-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

We are preparing Ubuntu Studio Yakkety Yak (16.10) for distribution on  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule | October 13th, 2016]]</nowiki>. With this '''Beta 1''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights, known issues and other information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 1 Release. 
Ubuntu Studio '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu Studio Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu Studio developers

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Yakkety Yak (16.10) Beta 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.10/beta-1/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.10/beta-1/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

* On amd64 version setting localization and keyboard layout other than to English may corrupt installation process. (Bug:1611010) (Bug:1612448)
* First entry of the boot-menu "Try UbuntuStudio without installing" does not get translated into the chosen language (Bug:1550186)
* parole crashing with SIGSEGV in cogl_matrix_entry_ref() (Bug:1550198)
* ImageMagick Entries not working in whiskers menu (Bug:1550210)
* Scribus defaults to 10.15 Saturday Night BRK Regular font (Bug:1550216)
* Calibre-parallel crashed with SIGSEGV in QObject::disconnect() (Bug:1616864)
* Krita didn't make it in this release. There are some issues with the packaging upstream and to release this Beta 1 it had to be removed. We are working on getting it back.
* Menu entry for the Graphics Workflow is a bit messy 

== Additions and Changes ==

=== Audio ===

* Added dgedit
* Added drumgizmo

=== Graphics ===

* Replaced gnome-color-manager with dispcalgui
* Added gpick

=== Publishing ===

* Added calibre
* Added pdf-shuffler
* Added plume-creator

=== Video ===

* Replaced recordmydesktop with vokoscreen

== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* Blender v2.77a
* KDEnlive v15.12.3
* Gimp v2.8.16
* qJackCtl v0.4.2
* Ardour v5.0.0
* Scribus v1.4.6
* Darktable v2.0.5
* Pitivi 0.97.1
* Inkscape v0.91

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Studio '''Yakkety Yak (16.10)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/dvd/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

I can be faster to update your previously downloaded image to the latest build using zsync. Further instructions on using zsync can be found on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage/ | Zsync community help]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu Studio ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TestingDocumentation | More Information about Testing Ubuntu Studio is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are here]]</nowiki>
