{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 16.10 Yakkety Yak Beta 2 ==

Please see <nowiki>[[YakketyYak-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

We are preparing Ubuntu Studio Yakkety Yak (16.10) for distribution on  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/ReleaseSchedule | October 13th, 2016]]</nowiki>. With this '''Beta 2''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights, known issues and other information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 2 Release. 
Ubuntu Studio '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu Studio Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu Studio developers

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Yakkety Yak (16.10) Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.10/beta-2/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release was downloaded correctly and is identical to the copy on the server. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.10/beta-2/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

* First entry of the boot-menu "Try Ubuntu Studio without installing" does not get translated into the chosen language (Bug:1550186)
* ebook-viewer crashing with SIGSEGV in QObject::disconnect (Bug:1621205)
* parole crashing with SIGSEGV in cogl_matrix_entry_ref() (Bug:1550198)
* Image``Magick Entries not working in whiskers menu (Bug:1550210)
* Scribus defaults to 10.15 Saturday Night BRK Regular font (Bug:1550216)
* Calibre-parallel crashed with SIGSEGV in QObject::disconnect() (Bug:1616864)
* Menu entry for the Graphics Workflow needs final fix. 

== Additions and Changes ==

=== Audio ===

* Added dgedit
* Added drumgizmo

=== Graphics ===

* Replaced gnome-color-manager with dispcalgui
* Added gpick

=== Publishing ===

* Added calibre
* Added pdf-shuffler
* Added plume-creator

=== Video ===

* Replaced recordmydesktop with vokoscreen

== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* Ardour v5.0.0
* Blender v2.77a
* Darktable v2.0.5
* Font Manager v0.7.2
* Gimp v2.8.16
* Inkscape v0.91
* KDEnlive v15.12.3
* Krita v2.9.7
* LMMS v1.1.3
* Pitivi v0.97.1
* qJackCtl v0.4.2
* Scribus v1.4.6

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Studio '''Yakkety Yak (16.10)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/dvd/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

It can be faster to update your previously downloaded image to the latest build using zsync. Further instructions on using zsync can be found on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage/ | Zsync community help]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu Studio ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/TestingDocumentation | More Information about Testing Ubuntu Studio is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are here]]</nowiki>
