{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 16.10 Yakkety Yak ==

Please see <nowiki>[[YakketyYak-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Yakkety Yak (16.10) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.10/release/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.10/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Changes for this release (compared to Xenial 16.04) ==
 
== Additions and Changes ==

=== Audio ===

* Added dgedit
* Added drumgizmo

=== Graphics ===

* Replaced gnome-color-manager with dispcalgui
* Added gpick
* Krita has been removed from Yakkety temporarily

=== Publishing ===

* Added calibre
* Added pdf-shuffler
* Added plume-creator

=== Video ===

* Replaced recordmydesktop with vokoscreen

== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* Ardour v5.0.0
* Blender v2.77a
* Darktable v2.0.5
* Font Manager v0.7.2
* Gimp v2.8.18
* Inkscape v0.91
* KDEnlive v16.04.3
* Krita v2.9.7 (Note: Krita has been removed from Yakkety temporarily)
* LMMS v1.1.3
* Pitivi v0.97.1
* qJackCtl v0.4.2
* Scribus v1.4.6

== Known Problems ==

* First entry of the boot-menu "Try Ubuntu Studio without installing" does not get translated into the chosen language (Bug:1550186). The text is now translatable, but has not yet been translated for all languages.
* parole crashing with SIGSEGV in cogl_matrix_entry_ref() (Bug:1550198)
* Image``Magick Entries not working in whiskers menu (Bug:1550210)
* Scribus defaults to 10.15 Saturday Night BRK Regular font (Bug:1550216)
* Calibre-parallel crashed with SIGSEGV in QObject::disconnect() (Bug:1616864)
* Krita temporarily removed from Yakkety (Bug:1633129)

== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Yakkety Yak (16.10) will be supported for 9 months until July 2017. If you need Long Term Support, it is recommended you use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | Ubuntu Studio Xenial 16.04 LTS]]</nowiki> instead.

== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
