{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

"I want to figure out a way to not be stupid with money, then make a
whole bunch of it, then I want to move to Outer Mongolia. I want to
milk a yak. Maybe I'll just settle for a cow."

   - Dave Matthews

The first alpha of the Yakkety Yak (to become 16.10) has now been
released!

This milestone features images for Lubuntu, Ubuntu MATE and Ubuntu
Kylin.

Pre-releases of the Yakkety Yak are *not* encouraged for anyone needing
a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into
occasional, even frequent breakage. They are, however, recommended for
Ubuntu flavor developers and those who want to help in testing,
reporting and fixing bugs as we work towards getting this release
ready.

Alpha 1 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing. This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect
some bugs.

While these Alpha 1 images have been tested and work, except as noted
in the release notes, Ubuntu developers are continuing to improve the
Yakkety Yak. In particular, once newer daily images are available,
system installation bugs identified in the Alpha 1 installer should be
verified against the current daily image before being reported in
Launchpad. Using an obsolete image to re-report bugs that have already
been fixed wastes your time and the time of developers who are busy
trying to make 16.10 the best Ubuntu release yet. Always ensure your
system is up to date before reporting bugs.

Lubuntu:
  Lubuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu based on LXDE and focused on providing
  a very lightweight distribution.

  The Lubuntu 16.10 Alpha 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/yakkety/alpha-1/

  More information about Lubuntu 16.10 Alpha 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Alpha1/Lubuntu

Ubuntu MATE:
  Ubuntu MATE is a flavour of Ubuntu featuring the MATE desktop
  environment for people who just want to get stuff done.

  The Ubuntu MATE 16.10 Alpha 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/releases/yakkety/alpha-1/

  More information about Ubuntu MATE 16.10 Alpha 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Alpha1/UbuntuMATE

Ubuntu Kylin:
  Ubuntu Kylin is a flavour of Ubuntu that is more suitable for
  Chinese users.

  The Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 Alpha 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/yakkety/alpha-1/

  More information about Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 Alpha 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Alpha1/UbuntuKylin

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
yakkety, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce
list. This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a week) carrying
announcements of approved specifications, policy changes, alpha
releases and other interesting events.

** http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to
pull together this Alpha release!

On behalf of Ubuntu Release Team,

Martin Wimpress and Simon Quigley
