{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== 16.10 Release Notes ==
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME | Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki> is an official flavor of Ubuntu, featuring the <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/ | GNOME]]</nowiki> desktop environment. 

16.10 is a regular release and will be supported for 9 months from October 2016 until July 2017. If you need longer support, we encourage you to use Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 LTS which is supported until April 2019.

<<BR>>
=== Getting Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 ===
<<BR>>
==== Minimum System Requirements ====
** 1 GHz processor (e.g Intel Celeron) or better
** 1.5 GB RAM
** 8 GB of free hard drive space
** CD/DVD drive or a USB port for the installation media
** Internet access recommended (for installing updates during installation)

If you have an old machine, consider less resource-intensive alternatives such as <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu | Xubuntu]]</nowiki>.

<<BR>>
==== Download Disk Image ====
<nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.10/release/ | Disk images for standard PCs/laptops.]]</nowiki>

If your PC was released after the year 2007, you probably need the 64-bit version.

Please use the torrent link. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent | BitTorrent]]</nowiki> is a good client if you do not already have one.

** Torrenting is fast and saves on server costs, which means more money in the budget for all Ubuntu flavors

** Seeding is an easy way to help others!

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB drive.]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
==== Check MD5SUM ====
An MD5SUM is like a fingerprint: two copies of the same file should share the same exact MD5SUM.

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | Compute the MD5SUM]]</nowiki> of your downloaded disk image, then 
** Compare it against <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.10/release/MD5SUMS | the reference MD5SUM]]</nowiki>

If they are not equal, that means your file was corrupted during download, and you must download it again.

<<BR>>
=== Highlights ===
<<BR>>
==== Select GNOME changes since Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ====
** Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 proudly features '''GNOME 3.20'''. Read the official 3.20 <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.20/|release notes]]</nowiki> to see what's new
** Many apps have been updated to their '''GNOME 3.22''' versions. The core system (GTK+, gnome-shell, gnome-control-center and nautilus) remains at 3.20. See the <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.10/release/ubuntu-gnome-16.10-desktop-amd64.manifest | manifest]]</nowiki> for specific version numbers of included software
** Many GNOME apps now have a '''Keyboard Shortcuts''' popup available in the app menu
** The '''Files''' app (nautilus) is now at version 3.20, a major visual upgrade from Ubuntu 16.04 LTS
** Easily share to Google Photos with the '''Photos''' app (3.22). Future Ubuntu releases are expected to support sharing photos to other online providers
** The Photos app adds non-destructive editing
** The '''Videos''' app (3.22) now supports adjusting playback speed through the play menu (bottom right corner)
** The '''Books''' app  (3.22) is re-enabled with support for .epub and .djvu formats
** The '''Maps''' app (3.22) supports contributing to <nowiki>[[https://www.openstreetmap.org/ | OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki>
** '''Disk Usage Analyzer''' (3.22) has an improved front page
** The instant messaging app '''Empathy''' is no longer installed by default, but is still available through the software center
** The new '''Characters''' (3.22) character map utility is installed by default. If you prefer the older version, install ''gucharmap''
** GNOME's '''Initial Setup''' utility is included and enabled. It offers an easy way to configure language and online accounts integration on first login

<<BR>>
==== Other Software Updates ====
** '''!LibreOffice 5.2''' is included. Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 now uses the <nowiki>[[https://caolanm.blogspot.com/2016/02/native-gtk3-menubar-in-libreoffice.html | GTK3]]</nowiki> version by default
** Update Manager now shows changelog entries for '''PPAs''' too (Bug:253119)
** The experimental '''wayland''' session is included. If your computer supports open source graphics drivers and you would like to try Wayland, log out, choose ''GNOME on Wayland'' from the gear menu below the password entry, and log back in
** The older '''webkitgtk''' version 1 system library is no longer installed by default. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/webkit2gtk/ | webkit2gtk]]</nowiki> is the more secure, better maintained version
** For the first time, Ubuntu GNOME does not include '''Qt''' libraries by default. However, this may change in a future release for better <nowiki>[[https://bugs.debian.org/836534 | theme integration]]</nowiki> with Qt
** New default '''wallpapers''' are provided thanks to the winners of our <nowiki>[[https://ubuntugnome.org/1610-wallpaper-winners/ | wallpaper contest]]</nowiki>
** The '''gpg''' binary is now provided by <nowiki>[[https://debian-administration.org/users/dkg/weblog/116 | gnupg2]]</nowiki>
** Although Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 uses '''systemd user sessions''', support has been improved in 16.10
** Many other bugs have been fixed. Where possible, bug fixes have been backported to Ubuntu 16.04 LTS. Volunteers are requested to identify other bug fixes that can be provided to 16.04 as <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates | Stable Release Updates]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
=== Known Bugs ===
<<BR>>
==== New since Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ====
** Installing additional languages in 'Region & Language' Settings app doesn't work (Bug:1631750)
** Initial Setup utility requires logging out and logging back in after selecting a keyboard layout. Alternatively, you can manually click a keyboard layout in the top bar
** Initial Setup utility does not include language chooser (Bug:1614816)
** GTK+ 3.20 requires theme developers to make changes to their themes. Many (but not all) popular themes are now compatible with GTK+ 3.20

<<BR>>
==== Also affecting Ubuntu 16.04 LTS ====
** Systems using the NVIDIA proprietary driver might fail to boot (Bug:1559576) (Bug:1632322)
** The prompt asking for media removal might not be shown during system shutdown from the install image (Bug:966480)

<<BR>>
==== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ====
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
=== Contact Us ===
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels]]</nowiki>
<<BR>><<BR>>
