{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''The Jogpa, in our mad flight, cut off a long lock of the yak's silky hair. Having secured this, he appeared to be quite satisfied, let go, and sheathed his sword.''

  - Arnold Henry Savage Landor

The first beta of the Yakkety Yak (to become 16.10) has now been released!

This milestone features images for Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME, Ubuntu Kylin, Ubuntu MATE, Ubuntu Studio.

Pre-releases of the Yakkety Yak are '''not''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent breakage. They are, however, recommended for Ubuntu flavor developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting and fixing bugs as we work towards getting this bos grunniens ready.

Beta 1 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider testing. This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect some bugs.

While these Beta 1 images have been tested and work, except as noted in the release notes, Ubuntu developers are continuing to improve the Yakkety Yak. In particular, once newer daily images are available, system installation bugs identified in the Beta 1 installer should be verified against the current daily image before being reported in Launchpad. Using an obsolete image to re-report bugs that have already been fixed wastes your time and the time of developers who are busy trying to make 16.10 the best Ubuntu release yet. Always ensure your system is up to date before reporting bugs.

Lubuntu:
  Lubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu based on LXDE and focused on providing a very lightweight distribution.

  The Lubuntu 16.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/yakkety/beta-1/

  More information about Lubuntu 16.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Beta1/Lubuntu

Ubuntu GNOME:
  Ubuntu GNOME is a flavour of Ubuntu featuring the GNOME desktop environment.

  The Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from
*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/yakkety/beta-1/

  More information about Ubuntu GNOME 16.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Beta1/UbuntuGNOME

Ubuntu Kylin:
  Ubuntu Kylin is a flavour of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users.

  The Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/yakkety/beta-1/

  More information about Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Beta1/UbuntuKylin

Ubuntu MATE:
  Ubuntu MATE is a flavour of Ubuntu featuring the MATE desktop environment for people who just want to get stuff done.

  The Ubuntu MATE 16.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/releases/yakkety/beta-1/

  More information about Ubuntu MATE 16.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Beta1/UbuntuMATE

Ubuntu Studio:
  Ubuntu Studio is a flavour of Ubuntu configured for multimedia production.

  The Ubuntu Studio 16.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/yakkety/beta-1/

  More information about Ubuntu Studio 16.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YakketyYak/Beta1/UbuntuStudio

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop the Yakkety Yak, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce list. This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a month) carrying announcements of approved specifications, policy changes, beta releases and other interesting events.

** http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to pull together this Beta release!

In addition, we would like to wish Linux a happy 25th birthday!

On behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team,

Set Hallstrom and Simon Quigley
