{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since <nowiki>[[UbuntuKylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> 13.04. Now, we are working on 16.10.

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 Beta 1 ==

We are glad to announce the Release of Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 (codename YakketyYak) Beta 1. In this pre-release, we have fixed many internationalization and localization bugs in Ubuntu itself and bugs in software written by the Ubuntu Kylin team. All the work that Ubuntu Kylin team do is within the Ubuntu community and ecosystem and as such they are flowed back to Ubuntu itself naturally and everyone using Ubuntu can benefit the result of our work.

'''Note:''' this is an beta pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and fixing bugs.

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Wechat: UK201304
* Business Email: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Beta 1 ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/yakkety/beta-1/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

Below is the list of prominent bugs that are existing in Beta 1:
* Failed to add wallpaper .(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1569119|1569119]]</nowiki>)
* There are 2 months on the system menu bar after select "Date and Month" and "Weekday".(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1569117|1569117]]</nowiki>)
* The Page of Add - the interface doesn't respond immediately.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/indicator-china-weather/+bug/1559059|1559059]]</nowiki>)
* “Weather Configuration” - “Address” : Exists some display problems.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1530335|1530335]]</nowiki>)
* The system settings panel crash after click "Text Entry-->"system settings " twice times.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1569110|1569110]]</nowiki>)
* XTerm - Chinese display abnormally.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1550641|1550641]]</nowiki>)
* Installation interface(Welcome) - language option - some words display abnormal .(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1569258|1569258]]</nowiki>)
* The CandidateView of Chinese input method obscured by the Dash page.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1465512|1465512]]</nowiki>)
* The Fcitx Input Method cannot be launched by itself (LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1616767|1616767]]</nowiki>)
* “indicator-china-weather” - Getting data abnormal. (LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1616774|1616774]]</nowiki>)

For issues related to Ubuntu itself, please refer to the Ubuntu project at Launchpad.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 16.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
