{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==
My name is Yannick Mauray. I am also known in some corners of the internet as the French guy from Switzerland.

In my day job, I am a software and web app developer. I regularly write programs in C#, PHP, Python, and Javascript. I used to write programs in Java, Groovy, Scala, and many other languages running on the JVM.

I discovered Ubuntu with the Hardy Heron release (8.04), and I have been using it ever since in some shape or another. I did use other linux distributions, either at home or at work, but I always come back to Ubuntu after a while. I am currently running Ubuntu "vanilla" on my main desktop machine, and Ubuntu MATE on the laptop.

I am a geek, and a maker. I spend most of my free time coding stuff, doing some woodworking, soldering wires to various single board computers, 3D printing objects with various degrees of usefulness, or even doing crochet !

I am also the host and producer of two podcasts : <nowiki>[[https://teaearlgreyhot.org/|Tea, Earl Grey, Hot !]]</nowiki>, an unofficial Star Trek fan podcast, and <nowiki>[[https://makerscorner.tech/|Makers Corner]]</nowiki>, a tech oriented DIY podcast.

I do stream regularly on Twitch (link bellow) all kinds of projects, from making a Stream Deck clone on a Raspberry Pi, to creating Twitch overlays with software like Natron or DaVinci Resolve, to live coding a phone app in Flutter. All of this being done on Ubuntu using mostly open source projects.

== Contact info ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~yannick-mauray
|-
| Libre.chat
| frenchguych
|-
| Twitter
| https://frenchguy.ch/twitter
|-
| YouTube
| https://frenchguy.ch/youtube
|-
| Twitch
| https://frenchguy.ch/twitch
|-
| Telegram
| https://frenchguy.ch/telegram
|}

== Contributions ==
In April 2021, I joined the Ubuntu MATE team, to help with the rewriting of the Software Boutique. Although we initially chose to write this in Python, we recently decided to get on board with the Flutter train, and we will have a brand new Software Boutique written in Flutter.

As part of that team, I am also building and pre-testing the Raspberry Pi images for Ubuntu MATE, before we send those to the QA team.

I have also provided french translations for the <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-mate.org|website]]</nowiki>, and sent a few pull requests to upstream projects, including MATE Desktop Environment and brisk-nenu.

Since september 2021, I have been a Ubuntu Community Streamer : every two weeks, Monica hands me the keys to the castle and I host a show on the Ubuntu On Air channels.

In june 2021, I joined the `snapcrafters` team, to help with maintening the many snaps that team is reponsible for. In particular, I am in charge of the <nowiki>[[https://snapcraft.io/pogo|pogo]]</nowiki> snap, a simple music player.

Although not directly related to Ubuntu, I have also contributed to `snapd`, by providing <nowiki>[[https://github.com/snapcore/snapd/pull/6695|the necessary interface to allow snap apps to talk to `jackd1`]]</nowiki>, the daemon for the <nowiki>[[https://jackaudio.org/|Jack Audio Connection Kit]]</nowiki>.

On top of adding that interface to `snapd`, I also enabled `jack` support in the OBS Studio snap.

== Future Goals ==

As a general goal, I want to keep being part of this great community, and promote Ubuntu MATE of course, but also all the flavours, and the mothership.

When the world becomes "normal" again, I would like to go to more in person events, and, maybe, if I can gather the courage to overcome my many insecurities, give some talks about being a software developper using Ubuntu. 

I want to keep contributing to the Ubuntu MATE project, fulfilling the tasks I am currently assigned, and picking more in the future. In particular, I'd like the Ubuntu MATE project to be a leading flavor when it comes to Flutter, which is, I think, an awesome basis for future application for Ubuntu MATE of course, but also for Ubuntu proper, and linux in general.

I want to stream more about my projects using Ubuntu, but also expose other projects. To do so, I plan on having guests for my streams on the Ubuntu On Air channel. At the time of writing, details are not set yet, I will update this page when I know more.

== Testimonials ==
Note: If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces). The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Yannick has not only been an integral member of the Ubuntu MATE team, he has also really stepped up his involvement with the wider Ubuntu community with his guest hosting on UbuntuOnAir. He is incredibly enthusiastic, especially for new languages and tools, and he has a drive to share that enthusiasm and his learning process with others, in order to help other people see that they can do the same thing. I wholeheartedly endorse him for Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:madhens]]</nowiki> 
Yannick has been a long time contributor to the Ubuntu and wider open source community for years. But over the last 18 months has been a much more prominent figure, joining the Ubuntu MATE team and contributing to the development of new features, taking a leading role in developer tutorials for UbuntuOnAir and also streaming Flutter on UBuntu development tutorials on his own channel. Without a doubt a talented developer an excellent ambassador for the Ubuntu community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:flexiondotorg]]</nowiki> 
Yannick has become a valued member of the Ubuntu MATE team and has expanded upon that role in testing Pi images and builds. Yannick has become an more involved in doing coding live streams and has become a positive community presence whilst guest hosting on UbuntuOnAir. Yannick continues to help provide support for the overall Ubuntu community and is an excellent ambassador. I recommend Yannick without reservation. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:franksmcb]]</nowiki> 