{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
My name is Yara Shousha. I'm from Alexandria, Egypt. I'm sixteen and in the 10th grade at E.G.C. School. I heard about the idea of the open-source 3 years ago although it's not well-known here in Egypt. So, I decided to start using ubuntu. I'm now working on spreading the word of open-source all over the schools and I want to let all my colleagues know about it. I believe that we must start with directing the young students.

I always try to stay in touch with the <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/LinuxCommunity.fci/|linux]]</nowiki> community and the <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntueg/|ubuntu]]</nowiki> community to know the latest news.

== My Contact Info ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| https://launchpad.net/~yarashousha
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| yShousha on irc.freenode.net
|}

== Contributions ==

 {*} Gave sessions about open-source and ubuntu at my school.

  1st>> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/nadeenspirit/sets/72157631840130943/with/8117724760/|Pictures]]</nowiki>.

  2nd >> <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/92872220@N02/sets/72157632683697060/|Pictures]]</nowiki>.

   
 {*} Helped my colleagues and my teachers to install ubuntu on their computers.

 

== Goals for 2013 ==

 {*} Make sessions in other schools.

 {*} Convince all my colleagues to use Linux.

 {*} Help my school to be the first Egyptian Linux-user school.

== Future Goals ==

 {*}  Change the education system in Egypt to be based on Linux.

 {*}  Make "Egypt" a Linux User.

== Testimonials ==

* Yara is a very active person, she decided to use Ubuntu 3 years ago. She always trying to learn more and get more involved. I met her in SFD (Software Freedom Day) in Alexndria and she decided to gave sessions in her school to spread the opensource. I attended session given by her, really she was great and she got a certificate from the headmaster for helping her colleagues. I am definitely so proud to know her. I totally believe she deserves to be an Ubuntu member she'd be a great addition. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nspirit|Nadeen Spirit]]</nowiki>

* Yara by her work always inspire me ,her energy and actions in this age make me optimistic and happy 
her passion in learning and working doesn't stop about her self but she always try to teach the others             about what she learned ,I am so proud to know such optimistic girl go ahead yara   --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:SARA|lovelyrose-mets-5]]</nowiki>
