{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page tries to sum up the state of porting YaST to Ubuntu.

If you know how to make Debian packages and if you are interested in helping to port YaST, feel free to join the YaST Ubuntu Team on Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/yast

Currently, it has one member. I (pirast) try to make more or less quick and dirty packages of YaST to have something to show to other people. Although they are quick and dirty, the build dependencies are correct so it is possible to build them in a pbuilder.

The following parts of YaST were already packaged:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Parts of YaST already packaged'''
|-
| '''Name of Part'''
| '''Packaged?'''
| '''Works good?'''
| '''Comment'''
|-
| devtools
| y
| -
| -
|-
| liby2util
| y
| -
| -
|-
| blocxx
| y
| -
| not a real yast package, but yast depends on it. needs the "libx" format
|-
| core
| y
| -
| -
|-
| testsuite
| y
| -
| -
|-
| zypp
| currently doing
| -
| not a real yast package, but yast depends on it. searchs for libxml2 in /usr/include/libxml, but the ubuntu package stores it in /usr/share/libxml2/libxml. Thus, compiling is blocked. A bug has been reported in Novell's bugzilla.
|}

Currently, you can have a look at our Bazaar Branch: https://code.launchpad.net/people/yast/+branch/yast/packaging-trunk

We try not to change anything in the source directly. Modifications to the source should be done via debian patches 

For every part of YaST, there is a directory. In it, there is the orig.tar.gz and the extracted source containing the debian directory so that you just have to run debuild -S -sa in the source to get a .dsc. The source is the openSuSE 10.2 YaST source code because the YaST svn is outdated.

=== Bugs ===
Feel free to add bugs which you found here (yes, we know that it is not usable yet)
* The documentation is being put to /usr/share/doc/packages, and manpages are not installed correctly. If you have any idea how to fix it, write it down here or contact me on Freenode.

Contact: pirast @ Freenode

=== Comments ===

Up-to-date YaST SVN is available under http://svn.opensuse.org
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
