{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Me ===

 {*} IRC: Yasumoto on Freenode, Mozilla, and Gimp.
 
 {*} Websites: <nowiki>[[http://www.joemsmith.com|Personal]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www1.chapman.edu/~smith237|School]]</nowiki>

 {*} Email: <nowiki>[[mailto:--yasumoto7@gmail.com|Personal]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[mailto:--smith237@mail.chapman.edu|Chapman]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[mailto:--joe@socallinuxexpo.org|SCaLE]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[mailto:--joe.smith@dreamworks.com|Dreamworks]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~yasumoto7|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== About Me ===

Greetings! I'm Joe Smith, and I've been an active member of the Ubuntu community since summer 2007. After I attended Ubuntu Live and realized how awesome the community is, I wanted to get much more involved in Ubuntu. I am a Senior at Chapman University in Orange, California, where I am studying Computer Science. I am the president of the ACM chapter at school where I have hosted dozens of events, most having an Open Source or Ubuntu theme. I am a Student Network Technician at my school's IS&T department, where I have pushed for greater adoption of Open Source and use it daily. This semester I am also an IT Dev Intern at Dreamworks Animation, where we use a huge amount of Open Source frameworks and utilities. I love Open Source, and the people involved with it, and am excited by the potential for change we all have.

=== Summary ===

{*} A leader of Ubuntu California LoCo since Summer 2007 - presentations at LUGs, host meetings, plan events.

{*} Attended Ubuntu Live and OSCON 2007

{*} Plan and Exhibit a booth at SCaLE6x, SCaLE7x, SCaLE8x, OSCON 2009

{*} Host several Release Parties and Global Jams at Chapman University, give several presentations.

{*} Presentation about Conference Exhibition at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekJaunty/UbuntuExhibit|Ubuntu Open Week]]</nowiki>. 

{*} Future Plans: Continue to improve Ubuntu California, eventually get back into development after I graduate in May 2010.

==== School ====
I've done a lot of work to promote Open Source at my school, and have taken full advantage of my positions as president of our Computer Science club and network technician to use it everywhere possible. At Network Operations, most of our infrastructure takes advantage of Linux and other Open Source projects; I was stoked to flash the open source <nowiki>[[http://dd-wrt.com/dd-wrtv3/index.php|DD-WRT]]</nowiki> firmware on all of our Linksys Access Points in the Fall of 2008. I've used Python and Bash to do a lot of scripting, and have used many other Open Source technologies in the line of duty.

As President of the ACM, I've given several presentations about using Linux, the command line, and other free tools, which have been well received, and instrumental in the slow conversion to Open Source. I spoke about some of the possibilities for <nowiki>[[http://scale7x.socallinuxexpo.org/conference-info/speakers/joe-smith-0|College and Open Source]]</nowiki> at SCaLE7x, and am constantly working on new ways to make it easier for students to take advantage of the free tools available to them. I'm doing research with my advisor, creating a <nowiki>[[http://watson.chapman.edu|repository]]</nowiki> of Open Source Science projects.

==== Development ====
I've done general bug triage for a few years now; I'm quite familiar with the bug trackers for Gnome and Mozilla, as well as Launchpad. I have a few patches here and there, but am just starting to get the time and programming chops to start doing real development work. I helped merge miro at the beginning of the Jaunty cycle, which was a very involved but enlightening experience. I think that I'm more interested in upstream work rather than packaging, and have been happily delving into Robert Love's Linux Kernel Development book the past few months.

==== LoCo ====
I have been a leader of the Ubuntu California team since the summer of 2007, and have helped run several events hosted at Chapman, including our participation in the first Global Bug Jam, where I gave a Bug Triage presentation, and our Intrepid Release Party. I was also involved with our Ubuntu presentations at Cal State Long Beach, the North Orange County Computer Club, and the SGVLUG at Cal Tech. We've come a long way, and I'm really excited to continue to help spread awareness and increase participation in the LoCo.

=== Future ===

I seem to be oddly drawn to kernel development, as well as the "people" aspect of Open Source. I find myself most often spending time helping others work together and bring out the best in themselves, as can be seen with my work with SCaLE and the ACM. I'm looking toward helping contribute more code to Ubuntu through the next year, especially since I have the majority of my classes done. I've also gotten pretty comfortable with setting up booths at conferences, so I hope to take my presentation and start working on the wiki pages, as well as put together a good "conference box" that teams can use with minor tweaks at their shows.

=== Extra ===

I grew up in Anaheim Hills, California, and didn't move too far to get to Chapman, preferring to stay close to my parents and two younger sisters. I was on the Crew team my freshman year at Chapman, and last year was a member of the Cross Country team. I was Captain of my Cross Country, Wrestling, and Track teams in High School, and my personal record for the mile was 4:59. I'm a big fan of metal, trance, and Mozart, which I'd like to think means I have varied and sophisticated taste. Although I don't play as much as I used to, I love the guitar and bass, and have a passable Van Halen-esque finger-tap.

=== Testimonials ===

* Joe has been one of the driving forces behind the <nowiki>[[CaliforniaTeam|Ubuntu California]]</nowiki> LoCo since its relaunching in 2007 and has been a dependable and enthusiastic leader since then, ensuring meeting places for installfests and global jams, and always being willing to help behind the scenes.  From the big expos like SCaLE to the smaller speaking engagements at LUGs and computer clubs, Joe has been instrumental in each event's success and a joy to work with, and I whole-heartedly support his application to become an Ubuntu member. --NathanHaines, 2010-02-25

* Joe was an awesome presence at OSCON (and the 1st ever Community Leadership Summit) and was definitely instrumental in making all of the visiting LoCo Teams feel welcome. He worked hard during the conference and was very on fire for Ubuntu and his Team. He has done achieved a lot, as is reflected in his wiki. Joe would make a great Ubuntu Member, and I recommend him without any reservations. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
* Joe is an epic Ubuntu advocate and free culture supporter who I have had the pleasure of working with.  I absolutely support his appointment as an Ubuntu Member. --<nowiki>[[Grantbow|GrantBowman]]</nowiki>, 2010-03-09

----
CategoryHomepage
