{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

YG938E69 type mobile primary crushing station is developed according to novel series stone crushing equipment’s design idea, which expands the concept field of coarse crushing and fine crushing. Its design idea is based on the clients’ requirements, which clears faults of the crushing place, surroundings and the complex basic configurations. This series mobile crusher really supply simpler, higher efficient lower cost machines for clients.

  Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: provide reasonable product selection and design,scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements, strict production process,on time delivery  

Outstanding performance of YG938E69 type mobile primary crushing station:

1. PE Series high-performance crusher
2. Feeder and vibrating screen are all in one.
3. Turn axle of traction is convenient for road transit and expanding the working place.
4. belt conveyor under screen, vibrating screen, crusher installation of an integrated on-board 
5. Vehicle installational supporting is easier for equipment to station in the working place.
6. Vehicle electric generating set, motors and control box are all included. 

http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com  
http://www.vipeakmill.com
