{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

High Pressure Medium Speed Grinder (High Pressure Suspension Mill), the new design, from VIPEAK is used to grind barite, limestone, kaolin, and ceramics and slag, whose Moh's hardness is below 9.3 scales, non-inflammable and non-explosive material. 

 Features 
Applications 80-425mesh fine powder grinding 
Field of application Agriculture, biology, construction materials, glass / ceramics, mining, mineralogy, metallurgy 
Feed material medium-hard, hard, brittle, tough 
Size reduction principle pressure 
Material of grinding Ring and Rollers manganese steel, Chromium - molybdenum Alloy 
Dust Filter System With Bag Dust Filte 
Durability depending on feed material 

Working Principle of High Pressure Medium Speed Grinder:
The grinding Process of the Main Mill is that the transmission device brings along the Central Shaft to drive. The upper part of the shaft connects with the Quincunx Rack, on the frame is loaded with the roller assembly, and forms a swinging pivot. The central shaft does revolve around the central rotation, at the same time it revolves around the grinding rings, and it self also rotates on account of the grinding effect. The shovel system, in the lower part of rollers, is loaded on the lower part of the Quincunx Rack. In the process of rotating of the shovel and the roller, the material will be fed gasket layer between the rollers and ring. The outside centrifugal force (compression force) yielding in this process will process the material into small powder, thus the desired powder is obtained.

http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com  
http://www.vipeakmill.com
