{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Youngbin Han ==

Hi, I'm Youngbin Han. I'm the current representative of <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo]]</nowiki>(2017.03~2018.09, 2021.06-Current). I first met Ubuntu in 2012 and joined Korean LoCo to learn more. After many years of participation, I became representative in early 2017. After I became organizer and representative, I organized various local Ubuntu related activities in Korea to engage new people to local community. I also put many efforts on interacting Ubuntu LoCos and Opensource communities nearby Korea. I'm also a student studying Software Engineering at <nowiki>[[http://skhu.ac.kr|Sungkonghoe University]]</nowiki>(2016.02~), and a DevOps Engineer at <nowiki>[[https://cloudmt.co.kr|Cloudmate]]</nowiki> since fall 2020.

=== Contact ===

* E-mail: <nowiki>[[ mailto:sukso96100@gmail.com | Primary - sukso96100@gmail.com ]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[ mailto:youngbin@ubuntu-kr.org | LoCo - youngbin@ubuntu-kr.org]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[ mailto:youngbin.han@cloudmt.co.kr | Work - youngbin.han@cloudmt.co.kr]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~ybhan | Launchpad - ybhan]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[ https:--youngbin.xyz | Website - youngbin.xyz ]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[ https:--github.com-sukso96100 | GitHub - sukso96100 ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--fb.com-hanyoungbin | Facebook - hanyoungbin ]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[ https:--twitter.com-sukso96100 | Twitter - sukso96100]]</nowiki> | IRC (libera.chat) - youngbin

=== Contributions ===

Most of my contributions are related to organizing Ubuntu community in Korea and building networks of LoCos around Asia.

* Organizer and representative of Korean LoCo for about 3 years (2017.03~2018.09, 2021.08-Current)
** Organized periodic seminars, workshops, group studies and many other activities to advocate Ubuntu and its community. and encourage people to contribute on Ubuntu and its related projects.
** Organized joint activities with other FOSS communities in Korea
** Spreading Ubuntu and opensource communities to non-capital area
** See KoreanTeam/ReVerificationApplication2018 for more details.
* Organized the UbuCon Asia event(Although it was virtual). And built networks of Ubuntu LoCos in Asia through that.
** Organized with 7 LoCos, 5 other FOSS communities from 10 regions around Asia. + 8 community partners across Asia
** Listing some website links below for details.
*** <nowiki>[[ https:--2021.ubucon.asia-news-2021-01-07-looking-for-organizers- | Looking for organizers]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[https://2021.ubucon.asia/news/2021-12-01-ubucon-asia-2021-final-report/ | Final report ]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[UbuconAsia-2021]]</nowiki> on Ubuntu Wiki

=== Further Goals ===

* Continue to organize LoCo in Korea - Gather new organizers, organize events and projects, modernize our web services (website, forum, wiki, etc), Manage Korean LoCo financing in more sophisticated way.
** Continue to advocate and encourage Ubuntu users in Korea to contribute on Ubuntu or related projects.
* Continue to interact to other Ubuntu LoCos in Asia. - and more further!
* Organize another UbuCon Asia! - Whether it's In-person, hybrid, or virtual.

=== Testimonials ===
Note: If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces). The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes". <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/youngbin-han-membership-application/25669 | If you're not familiar with Ubuntu Wiki, You may leave your testimonial on discourse]]</nowiki>

YoungbinHan ? Who made UbuCon in Asia. Ten years ago, it was my dream to bring UbuCon to Asia.  who support local communities and global-wide.  He supports a number of open-source and Ubuntu things.  I am resentful about him (JK). He is good at providing support in technology, event organization and event planning. For an Ubuntu member? too late.  I think he is already on this badge.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kokoye2007]]</nowiki> 
I have worked with Youngbin-san in UbuCon Asia 2021, the first UbuCon in Asia, and I would like to told that he led many Ubuntero who are in many countries, many backgrounds, and many timezones. Also I want to say that he provided many jig tools for online meetings with amazing enthusiasm.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:hito]]</nowiki> 
I am really impressed with how Youngbin organised Ubucon Asia and took care of every little detail. He planned everything really well, including the sessions, call for speakers and organizers and live interactions. I would absolutely back him for his Ubuntu Membership application, as I think he deserves it. I wish him luck for all his future endeavours and look forward to working with him in the future.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rs2009]]</nowiki> 
Youngbin is such a motivated and proactive part of our community, and should be more than qualify for membership just for his work on making the first UbuCon Asia happen alone. But his involvement is so much more than that, and it's clear he's a big part of why the Ubuntu Korea group is so dynamic and active. I think Youngbin will be doing some great things with Ubuntu in the future, and I wholeheartedly back him for membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:madhens]]</nowiki> 
Despite of my short experience as the event organizer of <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo(a.k.a. UCK)]]</nowiki>, I dare to say his effort had lots of portion for UCK. Cause of COVID-19, I think it was hard time for us to take events with our neighbors to chat about Ubuntu. But He made it with mainly organizing Ubuntu Asia, and Ubuntu Korea. If there wasn't Youngbin Han, It is little hard to think finding new and fresh members who love Ubuntu in Korea. I'm sure that he is `enthusiast` of Ubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mscho7969]]</nowiki> 