{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Yulia Novozhilova , apply for upload rights for packages 
* netbeans 
* libnb-platform-java 
* libnb-javaparser-java
* libnb-svnclientadapter-java

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Yulia Novozhilova
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~yulia-novozhilova
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YuliaNovozhilova
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm 26 years old, living in Saint-Petersburg. I graduated from Saint-Petersburg State University, the faculty of Mathematics and Mechanics in 2004 and currently work for Sun Microsystems in the NetBeans IDE installer team. Now I'm generally interested in java programming and java packaging.

Apart from my job and ubuntu activity I'm a hobbyist salsa dancer and love sport and traveling.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started contributing to Ubuntu in 2008 when netbeans packages lost a maintainer. I was really impressed with the easy of installation and system management (especially after Solaris), so since that time I have enjoyed using Ubuntu.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
The full list of packages I have updated/added can be found here: https://launchpad.net/~yulia-novozhilova/+related-software

I like to improve my packages and package a new software.

https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netbeans
- netbeans package history

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/399242
- this is a new package 

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libini4j-java/+bug/399326
- this package update is not uploaded yet but I like it since it is my first experience of rewriting of the build from maven to ant.

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netbeans/+bug/353080
- it was my first SRU experience. And though it wasn't easy I'm proud of it since I learned a good lesson. Big thanks to persia.

=== Areas of work ===

I've been working on netbeans packages since 2008. I updated NetBeans IDE in Ubuntu from 6.0.1 to 6.1 and then to 6.5 version. The main problem in netbeans packaging is that IDE depends on a lot of external libraries. Sometimes some of these libraries are not packaged yet, sometimes the version is lower then IDE needs. In any case I have to take care of them as well. 
During my work on netbeans I cooperated with persia, ttx, slytherin, dholbach and others. 

=== Things I could do better ===

I should learn more about different policies and formats (like this one: http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep5/) and to be better informed about new ideas in java packaging (like solution of maven problem).

I generally need to give more attention to detail, such as explaining why a specific change was made, adding more information in the changelog.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I plan to keep on working with NetBeans and corresponding packages. 

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
MOTUs are so busy and java packaging team is small enough. 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I reviewed `netbeans` and related packages a couple of times and I'm happy with the increase of quality over time. Yulia was very quick to fix problems and learned a lot in a short amount of time.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnb-javaparser-java/+bug/399291
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jsch/+bug/399323
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnb-svnclientadapter-java/+bug/399299
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libini4j-java/+bug/399326

==== Areas of Improvement ====
It'd be great to see Yulia as part of the broader Ubuntu Java initiative, but I'm sure that'll happen over time anyway. :-)

=== Thierry Carrez (ttx) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored a netbeans/nb-platform-java update during the Jaunty cycle and didn't have to change anything. Yulia combined upstream insight and knowledge of the FeatureFreeze limitations to produce this useful update. I also REVU-ed a new package that she created and didn't find any significant mistake.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netbeans/+bug/345562
* http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/cobertura

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Yulia should participate more in general Ubuntu Java stack maintenance, then she can apply for MOTU :)

=== Onkar Shinde (slytherin) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored the packages libnb-svnclientadapter-java, libnb-javaparser-java, libnb-platform-java, netbeans during Jaunty cycle. When I reviewed libnb-svnclientadapter-java Yulia fixed all the issues quickly. She was also proactive in applying similar fixes to other packages. The quality of packaging has certainly improved over time.
Packaging netbeans is no ordinary task and there is no better person than Yulia to handle it.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnb-svnclientadapter-java/+bug/316744
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netbeans/+bug/251173
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnb-platform-java/+bug/316793
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnb-javaparser-java/+bug/316784
* http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/cobertura

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Yulia should participate more in MOTU communications (IRC, mailing lists). Simply hanging around in MOTU channel will help knowledge about current happenings in packaging area, best practices etc.

=== Emmet Hikory (persia) ===

==== General Feedback ===

I've worked with Yulia on netbeans packaging since sometime during the intrepid cycle.  She has developed a good understanding of packging policies, in terms of both rationale and implementation.  She has always been quick to respond to any feedback, and has been very proactive in ensuring that NetBeans in Ubuntu is both up-to-date and of high quality.  She is a credit to the concept of package maintenance, in her deep understanding of the NetBeans stack and her willingness to share the packaging with others to ensure highest quality.  Most of my work with Yulia has been via IRC or email discussing packaging policy and practices, or trying to find solutions to particular circumstances (e.g. supporting netbeans-as-platform as well as netbeans-as-application simultaneously), rather than with specific bugs in launchpad.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* Packaging of JavaDB for newer glassfish (hardy)
* NetBeans 6.01 Update
* NetBeans 6.1 Update
* NetBeans 6.5 Update
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netbeans/+bug/353080

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Yulia would benefit from a deeper understanding of the Ubuntu freeze process and how to request general exceptions where there is a clear plan towards a stable series for release.  Yulia's skills could be a great asset towards improving Java in Ubuntu, with a bit more integration with the wider development team.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
