{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

* Serve as Ubuntu Member. Gnome committer and Debian Maintainer
* Working on integration of the cloud computing products system and develop deploy workflow

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~wzssyqa
|-
| IRC@freenode
| wzssyqa
| #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-cn, #ubuntu-cn-translators
|-
| IRC@OTFC
| wzssyqa
| #debian-devel, #debian-mentors, #debian-gis
|-
| GTalk
| wzssyqa@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| wzssyqa@gmail.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== Packages ====
 
* Debian (40 main): http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=wzssyqa@gmail.com
* Launchpad PPA: 

==== Documents ====

* Ubuntu Desktop Guide Chinese Edition: http://people.ubuntu.com/~happyaron/ubuntu-docs/
** This is a collaboration by a group of four people.
** Project’s objective is to provide a fully translated desktop guide for Ubuntu users.
** Outcomes are shipped within Ubuntu 12.04.1 as main system documentation.
 
* Ubuntu Desktop Course Chinese Edition: http://people.ubuntu.com/~happyaron/udc-cn/
** The group consists of eight experienced community translators and contributors.
** Aim to be fully localized, including both text and images.
** Try to be as distribution-agnostic as possible for the benefit of the larger community.
** Outcomes are publicly available under a license which encourages fair use. 

* Others

==== Bugs ====
* Debian: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?correspondent=wzssyqa%40gmail.com;archive=both
* Ubuntu: http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?correspondent=wzssyqa%40gmail.com;archive=both;include=subject%3Azh_CN

==== Translations ====
* Gnome committer: http://l10n.gnome.org/users/wzssyqa/
* Member of Ubuntu Simplified Chinese Translators Team: https://translations.launchpad.net/~wzssyqa
* 

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

  -- Well done! your contribution to l10n are always in good shape and quality.  <nowiki>[[ZhengPengHou]]</nowiki>

  -- Yunqiang Su has done a number of translations, I am the eyewitness of his contribution and sponsors him to commit files to GNOME's repository; he is also an active member on running the Ubuntu+1 who has found a lot of problems in the previous release. I support his application. <nowiki>[[AronXu]]</nowiki>

  -- I have sposnored the his ns3 and ns2 packages in Debian. Good Job. And I support his application. [LiDaobing]

  -- Yunqiang Su is a qualified translator and reviewer in both Ubuntu and GNOME Projects. He is indeed very active in IRC and the forum, too. Meanwhile, he is maintaining some packages in Debian which I find very inspiring. <nowiki>[[EleanorChen]]</nowiki>
