{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Welcome To The Pomeroy WA World Wide Computer Lab ==

==== WE ARE A NO! ====

Alternitive Home Page [url]http://www.mindblowingidea.com

Group URL: [url]http://groups.myspace.com/wapomeroy

IRC #ubuntu-WA-Pomeroy Forum Web Page [url]http://wapomeroy.myfreeforum.org/ Forum administration [url]http://wapomeroy.myfreeforum.org/admin/

We are a branch of the #ubuntu-washington at [url]http://olylug.org/

Project Leader Justin Breithaupt

We cover Walla Walla, Dayton, Pomeroy, and Clarkston WA.
We also Cover Lewiston, Asotin, and other near by Idaho cities.

We just opened at 5th and Main in Pomeroy WA, 99347. This is a small Coffee House where we have 4 computers set up and people bring their laptops in. We are teaching classes every Saturday between 10AM and 4:30PM. Coffee and pastries are available. 

I know it's small but some day we plan to expand.

== Class Schedule ==

==== Saturdays Schedule posted at the Computer Lab ====
10:AM Internet and E-mail.
11:AM Office, Word, Excel, Power Point, Access.
12:Noon - 2:PM Linux Projects, news, and history.
2:PM Computer Hardware Repair 
3:PM Computer Programming using Python.
[url]http://docs.python.org/tut/tut.html 
[url]http://www.python.org
4:30PM Clean up.

== Map and Directions ==

[url]http://www.listphile.com/Linux/World_Wide_Lab_Linux_Computer_Lab

We have 24 Computers and plenty of equipment. To expand all we need is the $600.00 a month for rent and utilities in a garage on Main Street in Pomeroy. There is plenty of space to expand.

=== The goal ===

To teach everyone about computers that is willing in this area. Everything from Linux, to hardware, to programs, to how to do their home work. We will also be sharing this building with other people in the community that wish to teach other subjects like a free school. Like this site here: [url]http://olympiafreeschool.org . As you can see I'm not that good at WiKi so if you want to edit this page so that the urls can be clicked on and things then please do. Thanks.

I also have a Linux radio show here: [url]http://thenixedreport.podshow.com

Please contact us with questions.

=== Ultumix ===

[url]http://www.rationalresponders.com

Ultumix is a new idea for the Linux community. The idea here is to allow users to directly complain about the problems in all the distros and tell us about the Features they want that are in or are not in any of the distros. The end result will be a mix between Ubuntu / Vector Linux / and PCLinuxOS. This mix will have the following key features:

1. A version without a bloated kernel striped down like Vector Linux to run with only 64 MB of RAM
2. Automaticaly installs most common features that everyone agrees should be included with Linux but does not auto start these apps until the user specifies that they do.
3a. Allows for Debian, RPM, Windows Executables, and regular soruce code to be compiled and installed on one distro. 
3b. Has the ability to install a Server / Desktop kernel as an update.
4. Have a Media Center Based version that has LinuxMCE installed on it.
5. Have a Server edition that has only server components but can have desktop components added later from the same package manager.

==== In short it will have everything the user wants and nothing that they don't. ====

I need help accessing the CVS repositories and uploading the CLFS that we will base this on.

== CONTACT US ==
Not only can you go to our IRC chat room you can also e-mail me at worldwidelab@mindblowingidea.com
