{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''=About me='''

'''Name:''' Walter Fernandez

'''Alias:''' Willys_Fueguino on irc. (or Ruidoso_Silencio too).
                 Willys_Fueguino on forums.

'''Age:''' 20 (21 on September 2007)

'''City:''' Rio Grande

'''State:''' Tierra del Fuego

'''Country:''' Argentina

'''Last Distro:''' Elive.

'''Contact:''' locuraf@yahoo.com.ar ; lokillof@gmail.com ; #ubuntu-lat on freenode.

I live in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. I'm 20 years old and I'm a linux and open-source enthusiast.

I've been using Linux since August 2006. I started with ubuntu dapper and tried kubuntu dapper, xubuntu dapper, xubuntu edgy, ubuntu edgy, and a live distro called "Aurox". My preferred distro is Xubuntu but due to some reasons I use kubuntu dapper instead. My beginning wasn't easy at all, due to some problems with the video card; had to install from an alternate cd (I never did that until that moment, but wasn't as dificult as I thought).

=== '''Ubuntu Contributions''' ===

*** Worked on spanish translations and translation suggestions (https://launchpad.net/~locuraf/+karma).

*** Helped users on #ubuntu-lat, #ubuntu-es, and very rarely on #ubuntu irc channels.

*** I added irssi and weechat support to https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixDCCExploit

==== '''Other Contributions''' ====

*** Translation contribution to the Upstream project done trough the irc channel #upstream (https://launchpad.net/upstream/).
    
*** Translation contribution to "amor" (virtual pet sort of).

*** Translation contribution to dpkg.

===== '''Things that I plan to do:''' =====

*** Buy a new computer after 2009 :-(

*** Become more involved with spanish translation/documentation.   
          
*** '''Become a Canonical Employee ;-) (as an english-spanish translator)'''
----
CategoryHomepage
