{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Keyboard Repeat Rate ===
use the Keyboard and Mouse tool under Preferences.

=== Keyboard shortcuts ===

Note: Super key is the "Windows" key

 Alt-F2::  Run program by typing in executable name
 Super+R:: Run program by typing in executable name
 Super+E::  Launch PCManFM
 Control+Alt+D:: Launch PCManFM
 Alt-F1:: Open LXDE menu
 Control+Escape:: Open LXDE menu
 F11:: Toggle window fullscreen mode
 Control+Alt+Delete:: Start LXTask
 Control+Alt+T:: Launch Terminal
 Control+Alt+L:: Lock PC
 Control+F10:: Laptop screen dim
 Control+F11:: Laptop screen brighten
 Control+F7:: Laptop screen backlight off
 Alt+Mouse:: Drag Window
 Alt+Mousewheel:: Switch Desktops
 Alt-Mouse2::  Resize Windows
 Mousewheel over desktop:: Switch Desktops
 Mousewheel over window title:: Iconify or Minimize Window
 Control+Alt+Left:: Switch to previous desktop
 Control+Alt+Right:: Switch to next desktop
 Shift+Alt+Left:: Send to previous desktop
 Shift+Alt+Right:: Send to next desktop
 Super+1:: Switch to desktop 1
 Super+2:: Switch to desktop 2
 Super+D:: Show Desktop
 Super+Right:: Snap window to right half of screen
 Super+Left:: Snap window to left half of screen
 Super+Up:: Snap window to top half of screen
 Super+Down:: Snap window to bottom half of screen
 Alt+F4:: Close Window
 Alt+Escape:: Switch From Window
 Alt+Space:: Show Window Icon Menu
 Alt+PrintScreen:: Create current window image in home directory
 PrintScreen:: Create current screen image in home directory
 Alt+Tab:: Next Window
 Alt+Shift+Tab:: Previous Window

=== Create New Keyboard shortcuts ===

There is no automatic way to create new keyboard shortcuts or hotkeys in lubuntu.  You will either have to edit Lubuntu's openbox configuration file  (~/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml) and <nowiki>[[http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Openbox#Create_custom_keyboard_shortcuts|edit]]</nowiki>, or alternatively install xbindkeys.  

<nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/obkey/ | Obkey]]</nowiki> will edit the keyboard parts of your <nowiki>[[Openbox]]</nowiki> configuration file for you. Download the .tar.gz and unarchive it.  After unpacking the tar.gz, open a command line in the new folder and run obkey like this: ./obkey ~/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml <<BR>> Hint: back up your config file.<<BR>>After saving the config file, you will need to run this command to have openbox use the changed config: openbox --reconfigure

For more information on the syntax of the configuration file, please check out the official <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/wiki/Help:Bindings | Openbox documentation on bindings]]</nowiki>. Note that `Super_R` and `Super_L` are the two "Windows" keys when you just want to use those keys. If you want to couple them with something else, use `W-` plus whatever key you want to use.

------
     
=== Multiple keyboard layouts ===

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455877
------      

=== Keyboard Mapping ===
You can connect keyboards with different <nowiki>[[lhttp:--en.wikipedia.org-wiki-Keyboard_layout | keyboard layout]]</nowiki>, but you have to set the correct mapping so that Ubuntu knows which letters you intend to type.  So you select the keyboard mapping for the language you want to type. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Howto%3A%20Custom%20keyboard%20layout%20definitions | Technical details here.]]</nowiki> 
We have to tell Lubuntu to which keyboard mapping to use.  The simple way to do this is to launch Lxkeymap (under Preferences.)  <<BR>>
If you want to switch between keyboard mappings, you need to add a setxkbmap command to /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart

To switch between two keyboard mappings with the control+shift keys, Open the terminal and 
<pre>
echo '@setxkbmap -option grp:ctrl_shift_toggle "de,us"' | sudo tee -a /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart 
</pre>

If you would like to use a panel applet to switch between keyboard mappings, you can right click on the panel, select "Add/Remove Panel Items".  Next click "Add" and select "Keyboard Layout Switcher". We're not done, we also have to add a setxkbmap command.
<pre>
echo '@setxkbmap -layout "fr,us"'|sudo tee -a /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart
</pre>

If you want to add another keyboard mapping like German, you can:
<pre> 
sudo leafpad /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart
</pre>
And add ,de  after the ,us which is already there.<<BR>>
'''You will need to reboot or logout before your keyboard mapping switching is configured.'''<<BR>>
You can find a list of codes on the Pandora OS<nowiki>[[http://pandorawiki.org/Keyboard_layout_changer#Base_layouts| wiki.]]</nowiki><<BR>>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/LXDE#Autostart_Programs | Here]]</nowiki> is info about the autostart process.

=== Keyboard mapping for 13.10 and beyond ===

Since Lubuntu 13.10, the method to choose and toggle keyboard layout has changed. Indeed, lxkeymap application is no longer installed by default, and we have to use Keyboard Layout Handler instead, a plugin for lxpanel.

On Lubuntu default installation, Keyboard Layout Handler appears on the right of the panel, near volume control. It displays a box which describes the current keyboard layout (for example, “US”). To modify keyboard layout settings, right click on it, and choose « Keyboard Layout Handler Settings ». Here you can make some modifications.

By default, the option « Keep system layouts » is checked. Uncheck it to customize your keyboard layout.

==== Keyboard Model ====

Here you can choose your keyboard model.

==== Keyboard Layouts ====

Here you can choose a layout. You can add or remove keyboard layouts. You will be able to toggle between keyboard layouts you selected. You can choose priority between layouts with « Up » and « Down » buttons.

==== Change Layout Option ====

Here you can choose a shortcut to toggle your keyboard layout. By default, it is « shift_caps_toogle », which meaning that you can toogle between your keyboard layouts by using « Shift » + « Caps-Lock » shortcut.

==== Show Layout as and Panel Icon Size ====

Here you choose what the plugin displays in the panel. By default, it is an image which is well-integrated in Lubuntu ; but you can choose your own custom image. You can also choose to display a flag, or a simply text.
