{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Prefix for ubuntu-announce@lists.ubuntulinux.org ===

Most of you receiving this mail registered for the low-traffic
announcement list at no-name-yet.com. This is our first announcement!
Before we get to the good stuff I'm pleased to announce that we are 
nameless no more... the name of our distribution will be "Ubuntu"
(read below for details) and the company supporting the project is
Canonical Ltd.

=== All Purpose Email ===

==== Announcing Ubuntu 4.10 Preview ====

Ubuntu is a new Linux distribution that brings together the breadth of
Debian with a focused selection of packages, regular releases (every
six months) and a commitment to security updates with 18 months of
security and technical support for every release.

This message is to announce Ubuntu's first public release:

  Ubuntu 4.10 Preview (codenamed the Warty Warthog -- or just "warty")

If you know all about this and just want to get the CD, you can find
out everything you need to know about getting it here (read on though,
as there's some other good information in this mail including
information on getting Ubuntu CDs shipped to you free of charge):

  http://www.ubuntulinux.org/download/

For more information, you can turn to any of the following resources:

Ubuntu Website: http://www.ubuntulinux.org

  The website contains a bunch of basic background on Ubuntu, an
  overview of the project, information on how to get it, and
  some documentation on the software.

Ubuntu Wiki: http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/

  The wiki contains most of the information and documentation on
  Ubuntu that the team has written as they've worked up until
  now. Anybody is welcome to edit and add to the wiki although they
  will need to log in first. You log in by clicking on
  UserPreferences in the top right hand corner of the page.

Ubuntu IRC Channel: #ubuntu on irc.freenode.net

  Anyone is welcome to join the Ubuntu IRC channel for help and
  discussion about Ubuntu and the Warty Warthog release. We aim
  to keep the signal-to-noise ratio as high as possible on that
  channel and on any mailing lists in the project.

Ubuntu Mailing Lists: 

  Follow any of these URLs to subscribe to the list, view archives, or
  to change subscription options if you are already subscribed.

  Ubuntu Announcement List (Ultra-Low Traffic):

    http://lists.ubuntulinux.org/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

  Ubuntu User List:

    http://lists.ubuntulinux.org/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-user

  Ubuntu Development List:

    http://lists.ubuntulinux.org/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel

Last but not least, we will gladly ship you a few CDs of Ubuntu at no
cost when Warty Warthog is released -- we expect that by the end of
October.  To receive a complimentary copy of the Warty Warthog release
on CD -- or a handful to give to your friends or LUG register online at:

  http://shipit.ubuntulinux.org/

Warty Warthog Features

* Simple and FAST Installation

   Ubuntu comes on one single CD, with thousands of extra packages
   available online. The install is optimised for speed and
   simplicity. Ubuntu has excellent support for laptops (both
   x86 based and Powerbook / iBook PPC based), and can also be
   setup in a minimalist server configuration.

* GNOME 2.8

   Ubuntu is the first distribution to ship Gnome 2.8, on the day
   of its release - be the first on your street to try it out!

* Firefox 0.9

   We plan to include Firefox 1.0 for the gold release of Warty
   Warthog in October.

* First class productivity software

   Evolution 2.0 and OpenOffice.org 1.1.2

* XFree86 4.3 with improved hardware support

   Our XFree86 packages have been updated to support plenty of
   new hardware. We also have worked hard to detect as much
   hardware as possible, simplifying the X install considerably.
   We plan to ship X.org with our next release, due in April 2005.

Enjoy!

CategoryArchive
