{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== WartyWarthog Installation Notes ==

This page is a place to collect notes about additional actions which may need to be taken for a successful installation of Warty.

=== Older computers with large hard disks (GRUB Error 18) ===

Some older computers have a BIOS that can only access the first part of a large hard disk.  These computers may not work with the default disk setup from the Warty installer.

The GRUB bootloader, once it is completely started up, does not use the BIOS and can access the entire hard disk.  But if some of the GRUB files happen to be in the part of the hard disk that the BIOS cannot access, then GRUB will not be able to completely start up.  When this problem happens, GRUB will print the message "Error 18" and the computer will not boot up.

To sucessfully install Warty on a computer with this problem, you must manually partition the hard disk, and create a special partition where GRUB and the boot kernel images will go.  This special partition must be at the beginning of the hard disk, to make sure that the BIOS can access it.  It can be a very small partition; 32 MB is a good size.  It must be mounted as "/boot".  Once you have the "/boot" partition created, partition the rest of the disk as you like.

From NathanaelReveal Tue Dec 28 16:19:09 +0000 2004
From: Nathanael Reveal
Date: Tue, 28 Dec 2004 16:19:09 +0000
Subject: Alternate Solution to GRUB Error 18
Message-ID: <20041228161909+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Myself and a few others in the Installation Help forum have had success resolving GRUB Error 18 by choosing the "Normal" or "Auto" geometry settings in the BIOS Hard Disk auto detection utility. I personally have used the "Normal" setting on three different Award BIOS 4.51PG / Intel BX440 Chipset systems to resolve GRUB Error 18 messages.

The best explanation for this that I can find is this:

1. The default disk geometry option suggested by this BIOS in the auto hard disk detect utility is LBA mode. And many places found when searching for Grub Error 18 suggest using LBA mode. So, naturally, I and many other chose LBA mode.

2. Ubuntu bypasses the BIOS entirely for disk access. Consequently, Ubuntu does not suffer from the same limitations in hard disk size found in older BIOSes. Specifically, LBA mode is not used Ubuntu; Ubuntu just sets up the disk "normally."

3. The BIOS, in an attempt to be helpful, tries to adapt the LBA mode disk geometry values in the BIOS to the Normal disk geometry information found in the master boot record of the disk is created by Ubuntu during the installation and disk partitioning process.

4. This appears to create a mismatch between the BIOS reported disk geometry and the actual disk geometry and thus causes the GRUB Error 18 message.

5. So setting the BIOS to Normal mode keeps everything synchronized properly and GRUB can start correctly.

Final Caution: I am _not_ a GRUB / Linux / Ubuntu guru. I'm just a guy, who, like Pooh Bear, is trying to get unstuck after biting off a bit more than he should have. Maybe the GRUB gurus can take a peek at my comments and correct and expand on them.

CategoryArchive
