{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== This is part of *Totally Rad Laptop Support*. ===

For Hoary, we would like to be able to have working *Standby* and *Hibernate* for the widest range of hardware possible. We also need to provide a consistent PowerManagementInterface for applications to interact with and configure what actions power management performs.

We need to decide on exactly what we need to do for a variety of situations. This is a continuation of [WartyWarthogLaptop].

In this document, *Standby* refers to suspending to **RAM**, whereas *Hibernate* refers to suspending to **Disk**.
We also need to decide which *state* we're aiming for for *Standby* - most modern laptops should be fine with S3, so a reasonable default would be to use that. If the laptop does not support S3, then we should fall back to S1, which doesn't provide as much power saving.
* ACPI
** Lid closure: We need to deal with two cases:
** On AC Power: Should just blank the screen, unless the external video is in use, or we're on a docking station. We should get the infrastructure in place to detect this soon. Need to xset dpms off to kill the backlight, but the hardware should handle turning the screen off for us.
** On Battery: Standby, possibly after a time out. The default case should be without timeout.
** Hibernate: This should probably be an option in Computer/Log Out.
* APM 
  APM should just be added to /etc/modules, as it will only enable itself if ACPI is turned off.

This situation would be greatly enhanced by the presence of a [HardwareDatabase]

=== Other Resources ===

* PowerManagementInterface
* PowerManagementSystemEvents

From saschabrossmann Tue Feb 15 14:36:29 +0000 2005
From: sascha brossmann
Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2005 14:36:29 +0000
Subject: Lid closure
Message-ID: <20050215143629+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Concerning lid closure i would consider it to be rather dangerous to *not* suspend the computer by default because of possible heat problems. It would also be more consistent (i.e. more user friendly): same action -> same result.

From ReinhardTartler Tue Mar 29 23:14:30 +0100 2005
From: Reinhard Tartler
Date: Tue, 29 Mar 2005 23:14:30 +0100
Subject: Lid closure
Message-ID: <20050329231430+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>
In-Reply-To: <20050215143629+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

Even better, this could be user configurable. In fact, it is by editing in /etc/acpi, but this is not an option for many beginners not familar with shell scripts. If those scripts could be customized through some config variables, writing a frontend editing the variables would be a lot easier.

From ThomasPerl Thu Mar 31 22:12:51 +0100 2005
From: Thomas Perl
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2005 22:12:51 +0100
Subject: Laptop mode
Message-ID: <20050331221251+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

I hope that this "Laptop Mode" (or how you will call it when Ubuntu detects the machine is a Laptop) is a optional mode, because Laptop users who don't want suspend or standby (or maybe it's buggy on that Laptop) could be upset by setting this standard. Maybe add a "System Configuration" -> "Power Management" GUI where things like this can be configured?

CategoryLaptop
