{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Preview Release Day Zero ==

The point of no return is based on these process timings provided by ColinWatson, AlexDeLandgraff and JamesTroup. The timings are padded slightly, but do not take external inconsistencies (such as a broken archive, datacentre blackout, tidal wave) into account:

* A package will take around 30 minutes (or more, depending on complexity of the build) to move from the upload queue to the archive.
* An installer CD build takes approximately 20 minutes.
* A live CD build takes approximately 30 minutes.

Six hours gives us enough room to move for exceptional blocker bugs or last minute security fixes:

* The point of no return marks the beginning of the CD build process ''unless'' there are known issues that need to be addressed before release.
* If all goes well, CDs are built, tested and uploaded during this period. Everyone can rest a bit before the storm, except for MattZimmerman and JeffWaugh. They will suffer.
* If required, uploads and changes during this period '''must''' be done in consultation with MattZimmerman or JeffWaugh, and '''will''' require handholding from the archive and CD creation teams.

''Please add notes for important events in your own critical path.''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| UTC
| Sydney
| Status
|-
| Tue 12:00
| Tue 22:00
| (Already in PreviewFreeze mode.)
|-
| Tue 13:00
| Tue 23:00
| 
|-
| Tue 14:00
| Wed 00:00
| 
|-
| Tue 15:00
| Wed 01:00
| 
|-
| Tue 16:00
| Wed 02:00
| 
|-
| Tue 17:00
| Wed 03:00
| 
|-
| Tue 18:00
| Wed 04:00
| 
|-
| Tue 19:00
| Wed 05:00
| 
|-
| Tue 20:00
| Wed 06:00
| 
|-
| Tue 21:00
| Wed 07:00
| 
|-
| Tue 22:00
| Wed 08:00
| 
|-
| Tue 23:00
| Wed 09:00
| 
|-
| Wed 00:00
| Wed 10:00
| 
|-
| Wed 01:00
| Wed 11:00
| 
|-
| Wed 02:00
| Wed 12:00
| 
|-
| Wed 03:00
| Wed 13:00
| 
|-
| Wed 04:00
| Wed 14:00
| 
|-
| Wed 05:00
| Wed 15:00
| 
|-
| Wed 06:00
| Wed 16:00
| 
|-
| Wed 07:00
| Wed 17:00
| 
|-
| Wed 08:00
| Wed 18:00
| Point of no return! CD builds begin
|-
| Wed 09:00
| Wed 19:00
| DebSIG talk starts in Sydney
|-
| Wed 10:00
| Wed 20:00
| 
|-
| Wed 11:00
| Wed 21:00
| 
|-
| Wed 12:00
| Wed 22:00
| Website goes live - hidden?
|-
| Wed 13:00
| Wed 23:00
| GNOME 2.8 Release due
|-
| Wed 14:00
| Thu 00:00
| Final round of CD testing
|-
| Wed 15:00
| Thu 01:00
| Ubuntu 4.10 Release, live website, etc.
|-
| Wed 16:00
| Thu 02:00
| 
|-
| Wed 17:00
| Thu 03:00
| 
|-
| Wed 18:00
| Thu 04:00
| 
|-
| Wed 19:00
| Thu 05:00
| 
|}

CategoryArchive
