{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Security review for Warty ==

=== Task ===

Assigned to: Martin Pitt, LaMont Jones, Matthias Klose, Sivan Green.

We must check Warty for known vulnerabilities and apply any patches that are
not yet contained in Warty. The following information sources are available
(sorted by increasing work and decreasing probability of finding unapplied patches):

* DONE (pitti): <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?which=tag&data=security&archive=no&repeatmerged=no&sev-inc=critical&sev-inc=grave&sev-inc=serious&sev-inc=important&exclude=potato&exclude=woody&exclude=experimental|currently open security-related bugs]]</nowiki>

* DONE (pitti): archived security-related Debian bugs

* Debian Security Advisories for <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/security/2004/|2004]]</nowiki> (DONE by LaMont), <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/security/2003/|2003]]</nowiki> (DONE by Matthias), <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/security/2002/|2002]]</nowiki> (DONE by Sivan). The <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/security/crossreferences|Security Crossreferences]]</nowiki> come in handy here.

* List of <nowiki>[[http://www.cve.mitre.org/cve/downloads/|Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures]]</nowiki>

* The <nowiki>[[http://www.securityfocus.com/archive/1|Bugtraq]]</nowiki> mailing list

In these sources we have to do the following steps:

 1. Does the error apply to GNU/Linux world in general? (no: break)
 2. Is the software relevant for Debian? (no: break)
 3. Is there a security bug/DSA for Debian? (no: contact team@security.debian.org)
 4. Is the package contained in Warty? (no: break)
 5. Is the package already fixed in Warty? DSAs contain the fixed unstable version, which must be lower than the Warty version. (yes: break)
 7. Find a patch from BTS, DSA, CVE, Bugtraq, upload a new package
 8. Put a notification below, including package, version and advisory reference (URL preferred)
 9. If the Debian package is not fixed, send a package interdiff to the relevant BTS bug / security team

=== Packages that were updated to fix a vulnerability in Warty ===
* #267092: sarge, warty (qt-x11-free, http://scary.beasts.org/security/CESA-2004-004.txt, patch sent to Debian)
* #246535: warty, woody, sarge, sid (sysklogd, http://www.mandrakesecure.net/en/advisories/advisory.php?name=MDKSA-2004:038, ignored in Debian)
* #256377: warty (shorewall)
* #257314: warty (gzip; synced from sid)
* #249977: warty (vsftpd; fixed in sid by new major upstream version; fixed in warty by upgrading to point release 1.2.2)
* #271358: warty, sarge, sid (imlib+png2, patch is already in BTS)
* #271374: warty, sarge, sid (imlib2, patch sent to Debian)
* DSA-540-1 mysql-dfsg

=== Bugs that need a closer investigation ===
* #112279 (libpam-opie; allows to remotely determine valid user names, which is easier with ssh; not too important for warty)
* #211920 (courier)
* #254541 (quagga; contacted maintainer, he says the bug is still present)

=== Possibly fixed ===
* #149631 (xserver-xfree86; should be fixed in 4.3, asked Branden and submitter)
 
=== Minor bugs ===
* #261755: warty, sarge, sid (wget)

== Universe Security Reviews ==

Although universe is known to be unsupported, that doesn't mean we havn't given it any attenion.

Following is report that I compiled investigating known security issues according the Debian's 2004 security advisories.
Generally most of the packages can be fixed by a sync in from debian unstable, starting from when FinalFreeze is relaxed after warty final.

This can also be used by people who might be interested in a universe package and would like to estimate the risks it might introduce into a system.

{{{

warty_ok	issue									resolution
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
V		DSA-537-1 ruby1.8: fixed=1.8.1+1.8.2pre1-4, both=1.8.1+1.8.2-pre2-3	OK=DSA
x		DSA-530-1 l2tpd: fixed=0.70-pre20031121-2, sid=fixed			SID_SYNC
x		DSA-528-1 ethereal: fixed=0.10.5-1, sid=0.10.6-2			SID_SYNC
x		DSA-524-1 rlpr: fixed=2.02-7woody1, sid=not_fixed			PATCH
x		DSA-523-1 www-sql: fixed=0.5.7-18, warty=0.5.7-17			SID_SYNC && DSA_UPDATE
x		DSA-521-1 sup: fixed=1.8-11, sid=1.8-11, warty=1.8-10			SID_SYNC && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-518-1 kdelibs: fixed=2.2.2-13.woody.10, warty=4:3.2.3-2ubuntu1	OK=CAN-2004-0411
x		DSA-513-1 log2mail: fixed=0.2.8-3, warty=0.2.8-1.1			SID_SYNC && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-509-1 gatos: fixed=0.0.5-12, sid=0.0.5-12, warty=0.0.5-12		OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-508-1 xpcd: fixed=2.08-10, sid=2.08-11, warty=2.08-10ubuntu1	OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-501-1 exim: fixed={4.33-1(exim4),3.36-11(exim3)},			OK=DSA
				warty={3.36-11(exim3),4.34-5ubuntu1(exim4)}
V		DSA-500-1 flim: fixed=1.14.3-9woody1, sid=warty=1:1.14.6+0.20040609-1	OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-497-1 mc: fixed=1:4.6.0-4.6.1-pre1-2,warty=1:4.6.0-4.6.1-pre1-3	OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
x		DSA-494-1 ident2: fixed in sid=1.05-1, warty=1.04-2			SID_SYNC && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-485-1 ssmtp: fixed in sid=2.60.7, warty=2.60.9			OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-484-1 xonix: fixed in sid=1.4-21, warty=1.4-21			OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-477-1 xine-ui: fixed in sid=0.99.1-1, warty=0.99.1-1		OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-468-1 emil: fixed in sid=2.1.0-beta9-14, warty=2.1.0-beta9-14	OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-462-1 xitalk: fixed in sid=1.1.11-11, warty=1.1.11-12		OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-460-1 sysstat: fixed in sid=5.0.2-1, warty=5.0.5-1			OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
x		DSA-447-1 hsftp: fixed in sid=1.15-1, warty=1.12-1			SID_SYNC && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-446-1 synaesthesia: fixed in sid=warty=not_vulrenable		OK=DSA,MCK
V		DSA-445-1 lbreakout2: fixed in sid=2.3.5-2, warty=2.4.1-3		OK=CHGLOG,CRW
V		DSA-430-1 trr19: fixed in sid=1.0beta5-17.1,warty=1.0beta5-17		OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE
V		DSA-410-1 libnids: fixed in sid=1.18-1, warty=1.18-2			OK=CHGLOG && DSA_UPDATE

Legend
------

CRW : Code review, reviewing the code manually to assure the patch is applied.
MCK : Manual check, for example installing the package on a current warty system and checking the reproduction condititions.
SID_SYNC : resolution can be obtained by integrating a debian unstable package instead of the current one.
DSA_UPDATE : Debian's DSA needs to be updated with the fix findings.
CHGLOG : findings proof on package's changlog }}}

CategoryArchive
