{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Announcing Ubuntu 4.10 (Release Candidate) ====

The warm-hearted Warthogs of the Warty Team are proud to present the
very first release candidate of Ubuntu!

Ubuntu is a new Linux distribution that brings together the extraordinary
breadth of Debian with a fast and easy install, regular releases (every
six months), a tight selection of excellent packages installed by default
and a commitment to security updates with 18 months of security and 
technical support for every release.

Less than a month ago, Ubuntu entered the Linux world with a preview
release of its 4.10 distribution. The last month has seen extensive
work by the Ubuntu community of testers, translaters, contributors and
coders. The result of this hard work can be seen in today's release:

  Ubuntu 4.10 RC -- Codenamed "The Warty Warthog Release" (warty)

This release candidate contains a snapshot of Ubuntu that the Warty
team thinks is ready to release. We believe this release is potentially
the final Warty release, and are calling it a Release Candidate to 
encourage very widespread testing.

If you've heard all about Ubuntu and just want to get the install CD or
test the Live CD, you can download it here:

  http://www.ubuntulinux.org/download/

If you want a shrinkwrapped CD you can register to have the final release
sent to you at no cost when Warty Warthog is released.  To receive a
complimentary copy of the Warty Warthog release on CD -- or a handful
to give to your friends, your school or LUG, register online at:

  http://shipit.ubuntulinux.org/

For more information, you can turn to any of the following resources:

Ubuntu Website: http://www.ubuntulinux.org

  The website contains some basic background on Ubuntu, an
  overview of the project, information on how to get it, and
  some documentation for the software.

Ubuntu Wiki: http://wiki.ubuntulinux.org

  The wiki is a shared web space used by the Ubuntu community to
  develop new ideas for Ubuntu. Anybody is welcome to edit and 
  add to the wiki. You log in to start editing by clicking on
  UserPreferences in the top right hand corner of the page.

Ubuntu IRC Channel: #ubuntu and on irc.freenode.net

  The Ubuntu IRC channel is your best place to start for help and
  discussion about Ubuntu and the Warty Warthog release. We aim
  to keep the signal-to-noise ratio as high as possible on that
  channel, and on all community forums.

Ubuntu Mailing Lists: 

  Ubuntu mailing lists are the heart of our community. In addition to the
  announcement list, and lists for users and developers of Ubuntu,
  there are now Ubuntu mailing lists in German, French, Spanish as well
  as lists devoted to Ubuntu security, news, translators, and the
  inevitable lighthearted chitchat list ("the Sounder"). To get more
  information or subscribe, visit:

    http://lists.ubuntu.com

Warty Warthog Features

* Simple and FAST Installation

   Ubuntu comes on one single CD, with thousands of extra packages
   available online. The install is optimised for speed and
   simplicity. Ubuntu has excellent support for laptops (both
   x86 based and Powerbook / iBook PPC based), and can also be
   setup in a minimalist server configuration.

* GNOME 2.8

   Ubuntu was the first distribution to ship Gnome 2.8, on the day
   of its release. Ubuntu is a great way to try out Gnome 2.8 if you
   have not already tasted it's speed and simplicity!

* Firefox 0.9 (with security patches)

* First class productivity software

   Evolution 2.0 and OpenOffice.org 1.1.2

* XFree86 4.3 with improved hardware support

   We also worked hard to detect as much hardware as possible,
   simplifying the X install considerably.

Warty can be installed in a minimalist mode for servers, or in full
desktop mode. It works well on laptops and desktops. Warty is secure
by design - a key goal was to ensure that Warty was as safe from attack
over the internet as possible after a default install. We hope the 
Warty Warthog and future releases of Ubuntu will help secure the doors
and *cough* windows of your network infrastructure at home, and in
the office.

Enjoy!

CategoryArchive
