{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Key Details ===

* '''Date Established''' - (''Thursday 19 October, 2006'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Chuck West <chuck@olylug.org>
* '''Membership''' - 52 as of May 2011
* '''Mailing List''' - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-wa
* '''Laundpad Team''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-washington
* '''Forums''' - http://washington.ubuntuforums.org
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-wa on irc.freenode.net:6667 

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Leadership:''' Determine the leadership structure for the group. Hold nominations. Hold elections.
* '''Figure Out The Next Step:''' Determine the focus and priorities of the group.
* '''Our LoCo Webpage:''' Get a LoCo website from canonical. (May require LoCo approval first.)
* '''Our LoCo Forums:''' Get more activity on the LoCo forum.
* '''Fast-Start:''' Focus on getting users started as soon as possible.
* '''Fliers:''' Get a group consensus on the LoCo logo so we can design and print fliers for events and group awareness.
* '''Special Events to Plan:''' Gaming, classes, workshops and charity related activities.

=== Experience ===

* Coordinated the Ubuntu Bug Triage Demo from Brian Murry at the February 2010 GSLUG meeting.
* Hosted the Ubuntu table at LinuxFest Northwest 2010.
* Hosted a <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/132/detail/|Lucid Lynx Release Party at Stellar Pizza on April 29th 2010]]</nowiki>.
* Hosted <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/287/detail/|Global Jam activity at Ranier Beach Library on August 28th 2010]]</nowiki>.
* Hosted a <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/450/detail/|Maverick Meerkat Release Party at Bison Creek on October 10th 2010]]</nowiki>.
* Hosted the Ubuntu table at LinuxFest Northwest 2011.
