{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe WashintonTeam/LeadershipNominations/August2010/Valorie Zimmerman here.

----

Ubuntu Washington LoCo Leadership Nomination For Valorie Zimmerman
------------------------------
---------------

* Email: valorie.zimmerman at gmail dot com
* IRC: valorie
* Launchpad Profile: https://launchpad.net/~valorie-zimmerman
* Wiki Profile Page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ValorieZimmerman

=== Bio ===

I'm an active member of Ubuntu-Women, and help out in the Amarok channel. At present, I'm the editor of the Amarok Insider, and am heading up the writing team for the new Handbook. Locally in 2010, I staffed a booth at both <nowiki>[[http://linuxfestnorthwest.org/|LinuxFestNorthWest]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/205/detail/|OSCON]]</nowiki>, attended the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/204/detail/|CLS]]</nowiki>, put together an <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/264/detail/|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>, helped organize the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam/Events/LucidParty|Washington Loco Lucid Release Party in Seattle]]</nowiki>, organized <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/287/detail/|Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki> locally, and am planning both Software Freedom Day in September, and the 10.10 Release Party in October.

=== Future Goals for team ===

I want the Washington LoCo to grow, and become official, and continue to have fun.

=== Testimonials ===

Here others can offer testimonials in the following format:

* Testimonial content - Name Of Person
