{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#f1f1ed" tablewidth="30%" tablestyle="margin: 0pt 0pt 1em 1em; float: right; font-size: 0.9em;"style="padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Who am I? ==
My name is Washington Lins, born and living in Brazilian Amazon Rainforest.  Studing in Nilton Lins University. 

Web developer since 1999, working with PHP/MySQL/PostgreSQL, and more.

Been involved with Open Source since 2005, and more especifically with the Brazilian community since July 2006.  Started as a translator for the Brazilian Team and recently being appointed as one of the administrators of the team.

== Web Presence ==
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/people/washington-lin
* '''Brazilian Wiki:''' http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/WashingtonLins

'''Involvement''':
* '''Administrator''' of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-pt-br|Ubuntu Brazilian Portuguese Translators]]</nowiki> Team
* '''Member''' of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/edubuntu-br|Edubuntu Brasil]]</nowiki>
* '''Member''' of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-br-pa|Ubuntu Brasil - PA]]</nowiki>
* '''Member''' of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-br|Ubuntu Brazilian Users]]</nowiki>

== History ==

I got involved with the Ubuntu Community right before the Dapper Release, as I started to contribute with the Ubuntu Brazilian Portuguese Translators team.

On April help some friends in ESLAM (Encontro de Software Livre do Amazonas - Free Software Meeting) generating a .deb file of Java and instaling in some PCs.

On July 6th I was accepted to the Ubuntu Brazilian Portuguese Translators team based on my translation efforts, becoming one of the administrators 8 months later.

== Working on ==

* Maintaining <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/FeistyPacotes|FeistyPacotes]]</nowiki> - a reference to the remaining packages to translate in Feisty
* Maintaining <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntubrasil.org/GnomePacotes|GnomePacotes]]</nowiki> - a list of packages to sync in Ubuntu.
* Working in upstream of translations of Gaim to Ubuntu.
* Involve other people in the translation process.

== What next? ==

* Completely finish the translation effort to pt_BR by the end of 2007!
* Involve more people in the translation process
* Involve the people of my University/City in the Ubuntu Community
----
CategoryHomepage
