{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



The first IRC meeting took place on January 3rd, 2010 in #ubuntu-us-wa on irc.freenode.net.

== Attendees ==

* <nowiki>[[ althara ]]</nowiki>
* valorie
* Salt
* Ashex
* xuCGC002
* peanutb
* GreySim
* aendruk
* ChuckWest

== Agenda ==

Items (./) were discussed.

** Leadership Structure (./)
** Focus of LoCo
** Lucid cycle RoadMap
*** Upcoming Events
**** January GSLUG Meeting Ubuntu Bug Triage demo
*** Do a Univeristy of Washington HUB table to hand out distro cds in the spring?
*** LinuxFest Northwest 2010 table?
*** Lucid Lynx Release party/event?
** Long term RoadMap
** Expanding wiki pages

== Minutes ==

https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AVu0CEKVbc6vZGdmemJxZG5fMjNkNnMzbnB2dw&hl=en

== Log ==

Logs of the meeting start here: http://ilbot.colliertech.org/ubuntu-us-wa/2010-01-03#i_1785
<pre>
22:08 althara    Ok. So it's 2pm.
22:08 althara    Lets to a roll call to see who's here for the meeting, then get started ont he agenda items
22:08 althara    *do
22:08 valorie    are you chairing, althara?
22:08 Salt       not here
22:08 Salt       j/k
22:08 althara    Sure
22:09 valorie    here
22:09 Ashex      Present
22:09 xuCGC002   im here
22:09 peanutb    I am here
22:09 GreySim    Here I be.
22:10 xuCGC002   he be thar
22:10 xuCGC002   *ahem*
22:10 valorie    before agenda, someone should be chairing the meeting
22:11 Salt       i nominate althara
22:11 valorie    that's not goverance, it's just good procedure
22:11 * valorie  seconds althara
22:11 althara    I'll accept
22:11 Ashex      All in favor?
22:11 Salt       aye
22:11 GreySim    Aye.
22:11 xuCGC002   yup
22:11 peanutb    Seconded
22:11 valorie    yes
22:11 peanutb    aye
22:11 Ashex      aye
22:11 Ashex      Anyone opposed?
22:11 xuCGC002   *cough*
22:11 xuCGC002   doesnt seem like it
22:12 Ashex      Alright, althara is chairing
22:12 valorie    thanks althara
22:12 valorie    you've done a lot to restart this group
22:12 althara    Ok. Agenda items: # Leadership structure
22:12 althara    #
22:12 althara    Focus of LoCo
22:12 althara    #
22:12 althara    Lucid cycle ?RoadMap
22:12 althara    * Upcoming Events
22:12 althara    o January GSLUG Meeting Ubuntu Bug Triage demo
22:12 althara    * Do a Univeristy of Washington HUB table to hand out distro cds in the spring?
22:12 althara    *
22:12 althara    LinuxFest Northwest 2010 table?
22:12 Salt       shall i call chuck? ringing andy now
22:12 althara    * Lucid Lynx Release party/event?
22:12 althara    #
22:13 althara    Long term ?RoadMap
22:13 althara    # Expanding wiki pages sorry about the format of that.
22:13 althara    Salt: good plan
22:13 althara    That was some lame formatting. I'll get the hang of this at some point
22:14 Ashex      No worries, indentation made it easy to read
22:14 valorie    about leadership structure - is it necessary to have a traditional Chair/VP/Sec etc.
22:14 valorie    or can we just have a leadership committee
22:14 althara    No, as far as I can tell there are no requirements for leadership
22:14 valorie    what does Ubuntu require?
22:15 peanutb    ubuntu requires a "team contact"
22:15 althara    who does not have to be a "leader"
22:15 peanutb    someone to basically talk to the US teams or ubuntu project
22:15 peanutb    order CDS and stuff from canonical
22:15 peanutb    etc
22:15 Ashex      Can we have a committee and a designated speaker?
22:15 Ashex      That person could be the contact
22:16 althara    I like that idea.
22:16 valorie    I have a question -- is Chuck here?
22:16 * valorie  isn't so good on names/nicks
22:16 GreySim    His nick last I saw was ChuckWest.
22:16 valorie    which is why I just use my own
22:16 althara    no, he said he would be
22:17 althara    He goes by ChuckWest
22:17 Salt       chuck is on his way
22:17 Salt       as is andy
22:17 althara    exceleent
22:17 valorie    ok
22:17 althara    *excellent
22:17 aendruk    Hello
22:17 Salt       heyo
22:18 althara    hello
22:18 xuCGC002   h
22:18 xuCGC002   e
22:18 xuCGC002   y
22:18 aendruk    Sorry about that. I haven't been watching my email over my break.
22:18 valorie    hi aendruk, are you here for the meeting?
22:19 aendruk    As much as I can be without any prior knowledge of the meeting topic. :)
22:19 valorie    it's the first meeting for a lot of us
22:19 Ashex      aendruk: here is the agenda http://ilbot.colliertech.org/ubuntu-us-wa/2010-01-03#i_1818
22:19 valorie    so far, we'
22:19 * Ashex    is taking minutes
22:19 althara    aendruk: Not a problem Meeitng agenda is designated here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam/Meetings/CurrentAgenda
22:19 valorie    ve elected althara as meeting chair
22:20 xuCGC002   were talking about organizing a committee, leader, etc
22:20 Ashex      What would the duties be of the committee?
22:20 aendruk    thanks
22:20 Ashex      And how would we like to nominate the speaker? Would that person be on rotation (quarterly?)
22:21 althara    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamLeader
22:21 Ashex      Allow me to clarify, how would we like to handle the duties as a committe?
22:21 althara    For some information on what "a team leader should ..."
22:22 valorie    I consider each person who accepts responsibility as a leader
22:22 althara    valorie: agreed
22:23 valorie    and I hope most of us will accept some responsibilities
22:23 althara    +1
22:23 xuCGC002   seems fair enough
22:23 Ashex      Agreed
22:24 Ashex      How about the speaker? How would we pick that person? Just nomination?
22:24 xuCGC002   we avoid having some sort of unified leader, much like the linux kernel :)
22:24 althara    I see the purpose of the committee being to help steer the group to accoplish our short term and long term goals.
22:24 valorie    I'm curiious -- what would the duties of the speaker be?
22:25 valorie    like a correspondence secretary?
22:25 peanutb    send out emails, run committee meetings
22:25 xuCGC002   we can't exactly pick a good speaker over IRC, can we? we can't see their talents as a public speaker
22:25 xuCGC002   oh. :/
22:25 althara    xuCGC002: I don't think it implies that they will be responisble for public speaking
22:25 Ashex      Who has experience with public speaking?
22:26 althara    Salt does, *ahem*
22:26 peanutb    i think thats going to be somewhat minimal considering our demographic
22:26 valorie    I have some
22:26 Salt       umm
22:26 Salt       <_<
22:26 Salt       yeah
22:26 Salt       i actually do
22:26 Salt       and love public speaking
22:26 xuCGC002   i was moreso thinking of, say, giving some sort of speech. but, ok, i guess that works too
22:26 Salt       and am taking an advanced course in it this quarter
22:26 valorie    but yeah -- people should speak when they have some expertise to share
22:26 xuCGC002   ^^yes^^
22:27 Ashex      I heartily agree with that sentiment
22:27 althara    But as "speaker" I think the idea is more a single point of contact
22:27 valorie    not necessissarily as our representatives
22:27 valorie    woah
22:27 Salt       but i'd like to say that i will not have a ton of time to work on this
22:27 Ashex      So they should be more a medium of communcation
22:27 Salt       i'm here to help things flow but my time's being stretched to edges
22:27 althara    Well we were originally discussion the "speaker" as determining who the team contact should be, unless I misunderstood
22:27 Salt       so i must decline such a thing
22:28 althara    Salt: understood
22:28 peanutb    basically, from ubuntu's point of view, they want someone to be their point of contact, and not have to deal with multiple people who dont know whats going on
22:28 Ashex      althara: I think we were looking to clarify what their responsibilities would be
22:28 xuCGC002   i think the misunderstanding was on my part, sorry
22:28 valorie    I think we are basically discussing the role that Chuck has had?
22:28 valorie    up until now
22:29 valorie    he's been the contact person
22:29 Salt       pretty much
22:29 althara    xuCGC002: not a problem.
22:29 Ashex      Sounds about right
22:29 Salt       so, i'd like to hear what time voids people have that can be filled?
22:29 valorie    I think quarterly sounds like way too much work
22:29 Salt       like peanutb what are you up to?
22:30 valorie    too many places to change that info
22:30 valorie    lol
22:30 peanutb    umm. classes
22:30 Salt       still hs?
22:30 Ashex      Ah, good point
22:30 althara    I think keeping it as simple as possible for now is good. So designating the speaker as team contact for as long as they are willing to be or as long as they are performing the duty of the team contact.
22:30 peanutb    and the FIRST robotics season starts in a week, so im out for this quarter at least
22:30 Ashex      I just have work, anything else I can negotiate
22:31 peanutb    Salt: Shoreline Community College, through running start
22:31 xuCGC002   i have classes as well, i go back tomorrow
22:31 valorie    does Chuck want to continue as contact/speaker?
22:31 Salt       so plenty of time hehe
22:31 Salt       peanutb, you're in first?!?!
22:31 althara    From my emails with him, I beleive he does.
22:31 valorie    ok
22:31 valorie    how does the group feel about that?
22:31 althara    We can verify with him when/if he shows up.
22:31 Ashex      Judging from the discussion on the mail list, he wasn't do much as he didn't feel there was a group to work with
22:31 Salt       well we are still waiting on chuck to show here
22:31 Salt       he said he was on his way
22:31 valorie    right
22:32 Ashex      But now that we are active again, he is much more motivated to be a speaker
22:32 althara    Part of what I wanted to discuss with leadership is if the team contact should also be the leader
22:32 valorie    I'm hoping that the leadership is shared
22:32 althara    Since that is the past structure, and there may be a better way to go about it
22:33 Ashex      I do not think they should be the leader
22:33 valorie    right
22:33 Ashex      They are more a PR agent
22:33 valorie    a single person doing multiple functions like that seems too much
22:33 peanutb    I disagree. I think there needs to be a go-to guy for things. To settle disputes etc.
22:33 Ashex      Wouldn't the committee be doing that?
22:34 Ashex      We can make the committee an odd number so there is always a decision
22:34 valorie    sure
22:34 althara    I agree with ashex and valorie
22:34 GreySim    Likewise.
22:34 valorie    peanutb: there should always be a go-to person, I agree
22:34 valorie    but it doesn't have to be ONE person
22:34 xuCGC002   but the question remains. who is that person to be?
22:35 peanutb    i think it does, otherwise there is confusion from everyone
22:35 valorie    for instance, you can have a team of listowners
22:35 Salt       i prefer there being a number of people infact since we won't have issues with one person disappearing
22:35 valorie    board admins
22:35 althara    Salt: +1
22:35 valorie    etc
22:35 valorie    chanops
22:35 * peanutb  likes
22:35 xuCGC002   valorie:yes, that would be nice.
22:36 valorie    yay!
22:36 xuCGC002   i owned a small forum for a while
22:36 xuCGC002   oh hey its chuck
22:36 peanutb    but there needs to be one person that is the contact for ubuntu and can settle whatever disputes arise
22:36 ChuckWest  Sorry, operator error...
22:36 valorie    sure
22:36 xuCGC002   board admins are a seperate matter
22:37 xuCGC002   although our goto person could be one
22:37 Ashex      um, I ran a club for 2 years and was an advisor to a club for 1?
22:37 althara    Hi ChuckWest you can catch up at http://ilbot.colliertech.org/text.pl?channel=ubuntu-us-wa;date=2010-01-03 starting at 22:00
22:37 xuCGC002   scratch that, SHOULD be one
22:37 xuCGC002   yes, you can see our ramblings for the day. :)
22:38 Ashex      ChuckWest: http://ilbot.colliertech.org/ubuntu-us-wa/2010-01-03#i_1785
22:38 Ashex      If you give me a minute, I can link you to our minutes
22:38 Ashex      https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AVu0CEKVbc6vZGdmemJxZG5fMjNkNnMzbnB2dw&hl=en
22:38 althara    peanutb: Why would it be an issue to go to a committee member with a dispute?
22:39 xuCGC002   some may arise
22:39 xuCGC002   you never know
22:39 valorie    sure, we're all human
22:39 xuCGC002   but somebody might be able to help
22:39 peanutb    althara: because one committee member might not understand the whole situation. and most likely, it would be within this giant committee
22:39 althara    I'm saying why would going to a committee member be worse than going to a single person desiganted as dispute resolver
22:39 Ashex      peanutb: do you mean handle disputes from outside the group
22:39 valorie    but disputes can go to a committee as well as one person
22:39 Ashex      such as between us and ubuntu/another group
22:40 Ashex      Or internal disputes
22:40 peanutb    Ashex: no. I mean within the group
22:40 valorie    we can't have a giant committee, we don't have enough people yet
22:40 valorie    lol
22:40 xuCGC002   maybe
22:40 Ashex      Ay, I was thinking it could be like 3 people or something
22:40 althara    Yes, 3 sounds like the right number to me
22:40 valorie    3 is a good number
22:40 peanutb    Sounds about right
22:40 althara    peanutb: what does someone with a dispute do when the leader is who they have a dispute with?
22:40 xuCGC002   around that number, yes
22:41 peanutb    but these people need to make sure they have set roles
22:41 althara    s/leader/dispute resolver/
22:41 valorie    The Linuxchix run well with the Tres Chix, and that's a world-wide group
22:41 xuCGC002   althara: i can see that
22:42 peanutb    althara: good point. Vive la revolution? I see your point
22:42 althara    I may be interpreting this wrong, but I think your issue may be more with having a clear process around dispute resolution as opposed to needing a single person to handle all disputes?
22:42 peanutb    i guess that is what im asking for
22:43 althara    I completely agree we need to have a way for disputes to be handle so that they arent ignored or fall through the cracks
22:43 valorie    peanutb: how about if you come up with a draft policy for dispute resolution/
22:43 xuCGC002   ok, so now we should come up with a way to handle disputes without relying on one person
22:43 valorie    ?
22:43 peanutb    valorie: sounds good
22:44 peanutb    So lets start from the beginning
22:44 xuCGC002   if that system does not work, we could bring it up with a small amount of people
22:44 peanutb    We have a 3? person committee, with a rotating "team contact"
22:44 ChuckWest  OK, I'm caught up, thank you.
22:45 GreySim    This page may be relevant for dispute resolution: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoResolvingProblems
22:45 valorie    chuck, now that you are here -- how do you feel about continuing as team contact?
22:45 xuCGC002   GreySim: Thanks
22:45 ChuckWest  I am very much for that. I'm glad others are now here to take some of the responsibilities.
22:46 valorie    that looks excellent, GreySim
22:46 ChuckWest  I know many take issue with me it seems but I only want what is best. Excuse me if I do such a terrible job.
22:46 althara    peanutb: That is what we have been discussing, though I am infavor of not having the team contact rotate.
22:47 valorie    who is taking issue with you?
22:47 valorie    sorry, I must have missed something
22:47 valorie    I think we all want what's best for the group
22:47 althara    valorie: agreed
22:47 xuCGC002   exactly
22:47 Ashex      ChuckWest: I believe some were frustrated with the lack of progress with the group over the last year. But that is behind us now
22:48 * valorie  didn't even know the group existed a year ago
22:48 ChuckWest  Some people would rather tear things down than make them better. I don't know where the hostility comes from.
22:48 valorie    only recently discovered the social structure of Ubuntu
22:48 althara    ChuckWest: I don't see any hostility. Just observations.
22:48 Ashex      So, I believe we have deicded we want to have a 3 person committee and a speaker/team contact
22:48 * valorie  hasn't seen the hostility
22:48 xuCGC002   i thought this group just started up. but then again we did have the table for the past couple years at LFNW
22:49 althara    Ashex: yes
22:49 Ashex      Dispute resolution still hasn't been clarified or decided on yet
22:49 althara    We will add dispute resolution to the agenda for the next meeting.
22:49 peanutb    maybe we should put that off, until we can have a real proposition
22:49 valorie    ashex, I believe that peanutb will bring a draft to us
22:49 Ashex      Each member of the committee is essentially acting as a leader, but they will discuss any actions that needed to be made
22:49 ChuckWest  Help and communication is nice. It's about time there was some around here, but I'm done sounding off... :]
22:49 GreySim    By the way, anyone who is taking on a leadership role *may* be available in this freely downloadable book, written by the guy who started the LoCo stuff to begin with: http://www.artofcommunityonline.org/get/
22:49 xuCGC002   peanutb: yes, this issue would be handled much better later on
22:49 valorie    peanutb: please feel free to call on any of us for help with that
22:49 Ashex      Okay, Just wanted to recap to make sure we were on the same page
22:50 althara    Ashex: thank you
22:50 peanutb    I mean, it depends on how we set up the structure of the team
22:50 althara    So I propose a vote.
22:50 peanutb    three leaders etc
22:50 peanutb    but yeah
22:50 althara    All those in favor of a committee for leadership of the LoCo?
22:50 althara    +1
22:50 peanutb    aye
22:50 Salt       +1
22:50 GreySim    +1
22:50 xuCGC002   yes, i think so
22:50 aendruk    +1
22:50 ChuckWest  +1
22:51 Ashex      Aye
22:51 valorie    +1
22:51 althara    All those opposed to a committee for leadership of the LoCo?
22:51 althara    The ayes have it.
22:52 xuCGC002   then its settled
22:52 xuCGC002   when shall we pick committee members?
22:52 althara    So does anyone else have input ont he number of people for the committee? Three has been proposed several times.
22:52 ChuckWest  Aye
22:52 GreySim    I think three sounded good.
22:52 aendruk    Three sounds appropriate.
22:52 Salt       lets put three to the vote
22:53 Salt       althara, if you will
22:53 xuCGC002   3 seems fair. it is an odd number, after all.
22:53 Salt       as chairwoman
22:53 althara    Ok. All those in favor of a three person committee for LoCo leadership?
22:53 Salt       +1
22:53 Ashex      Aye
22:53 althara    +1
22:53 GreySim    +1
22:53 valorie    aye
22:53 peanutb    +1
22:53 aendruk    +1
22:53 xuCGC002   yup
22:54 ChuckWest  +1
22:54 althara    All those opposed to a three person committee for LoCo leadership?
22:54 althara    The ayes have it.
22:54 althara    yea, for progress. :)
22:54 Salt       :)
22:54 Salt       alright, so now i think we should discuss who will be on the chair, who'd like to run?
22:55 althara    Perhaps a call for nominees on the mailinglist/forums/etc?
22:55 althara    Make the process as democratic as possible.
22:55 Ashex      I agree
22:55 Salt       aye
22:55 valorie    yes, I think electing people today might be rushing it a bit
22:55 Ashex      That way people have time to decide
22:55 Salt       good point
22:56 althara    Ok so a two week time period for nominations?
22:56 peanutb    i suggest we use http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/civs.html
22:56 peanutb    at least in the future
22:56 peanutb    once we have an established membership
22:57 valorie    nice!
22:57 Salt       never seen that
22:57 althara    That is an awesome resource.
22:57 peanutb    The CC used it for elections last year
22:57 valorie    well, we do have established membership, on Launchpad
22:57 valorie    do we not?
22:57 Ashex      This is true
22:57 valorie    anyone here not listed on Launchpad?
22:58 aendruk    What's the URL?
22:58 althara    We do. Though a call on teh forums and mailing list to encourage those who are active to join the launchpad group is probably a good idea.
22:58 valorie    agreed
22:58 xuCGC002   we have a launchpad thing?
22:58 valorie    then I so move
22:58 xuCGC002   :(
22:58 althara    https://launchpad.net/~washingtonstate
22:58 Ashex      url for launchpad group is in the topic
22:58 Ashex      Or there
22:58 xuCGC002   althara: joining now, thanks
22:58 * althara  got it fro the topic. :p
22:58 althara    *from
22:58 xuCGC002   :'-(
22:59 Salt       can we get that changed to the official naming scheme?
22:59 valorie    let me restate: I move we announce open nominations on the list and forum, and hold the vote in 2 weeks via http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/civs.html
23:00 peanutb    sounds good
23:00 Salt       sounds fine
23:00 valorie    well, it needs a second
23:00 peanutb    should we attach dates to that
23:00 althara    Any opposition to valorie's idea?
23:00 valorie    lol
23:00 peanutb    so like when nominations need to be in, how long the vote is open for?
23:00 Ashex      I second the motion
23:01 Salt       ChuckWest, i was wondering if you could change that name or if you'd like to give someone the temp power to do it?
23:01 valorie    hmmm, how long should nominations be open? a week?
23:01 ChuckWest  The name was given by Ubuntu.
23:01 althara    One week for nominations one week for voting?
23:01 Ashex      I assumed it would be 2 week nomination and voting would be for a couple days
23:01 valorie    sounds good to me
23:01 ChuckWest  I think it changes when we get our ducks in a row.
23:01 valorie    ah
23:01 Ashex      But 1/1 works
23:02 xuCGC002   official scheme would be better
23:02 valorie    they did some reorganizing
23:02 althara    I like two weeks for nominations and 1 week for voting myself
23:02 althara    We don't need to rush this process
23:03 Ashex      That sounds much better
23:03 xuCGC002   not at all
23:03 xuCGC002   err, we dont need to rush this. :)
23:03 valorie    lol
23:03 peanutb    okay
23:03 althara    heh
23:03 peanutb    can we call a vote?
23:03 Salt       alright for waiting till nominations are over, i'd like to get it changed to the proper formatting at some point
23:03 valorie    well, I move we have 2 weeks for nominations, and 1 week for voting
23:04 peanutb    Seconded
23:04 Ashex      valorie: are you amending your previous motion?
23:04 althara    Vote, all in favor of a two week open call for nominations to the committee?
23:04 valorie    yes
23:04 GreySim    +1
23:04 althara    +1
23:04 peanutb    +1
23:04 Ashex      +1
23:04 valorie    yes
23:04 aendruk    +1
23:05 Salt       +1
23:05 ChuckWest  +1
23:05 althara    All opposed to a two week open call for nominations to the committee?
23:06 xuCGC002   oh, sorry, i;m all for the open call
23:06 althara    The ayes have it.
23:08 althara    All in favor of a one week voting period to appoint the committee members?
23:08 althara    +1
23:08 GreySim    +1
23:08 valorie    yes
23:08 Salt       +1
23:08 Ashex      Aye
23:08 ChuckWest  indifferent
23:09 xuCGC002   +1
23:09 aendruk    I don't have a preference.
23:09 althara    All opposed?
23:10 valorie    I would like to encourage each person here to nominate themselves if you want to be on the leadership team
23:10 althara    The ayes have it then.
23:10 althara    valorie: yes
23:11 GreySim    How does voting work when you're voting for three positions?
23:11 peanutb    http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/civs.html
23:11 althara    GreySim: the system peanutb linked to is ranked voting
23:11 GreySim    Okay.
23:11 xuCGC002   so it works perfectly for this situation
23:12 Ashex      I assume we will send nomination out on the mail list/forum?
23:12 peanutb    I think the mailing list is probably better?
23:12 Ashex      Probably
23:12 althara    I think making a wiki page for each nominee and then sending out the link on the forum and mailing list is a good idea
23:12 althara    Or having each nominee make a page for themself.
23:13 Ashex      Sounds good to me
23:13 althara    That way we have the info easily accessible for poterity
23:13 althara    *posterity
23:13 peanutb    sounds great
23:14 valorie    wiki pages like candidates for Ubuntu membership build?
23:14 xuCGC002   i think the mailing list plus the nominee-created pages is the best decisions
23:14 xuCGC002   *decision
23:14 althara    valorie: like what the ubuntu women project did
23:15 althara    a wiki template and a wiki page for the election where all the nominees are listed automatically
23:15 valorie    perhaps a link to those should be included, or the template
23:15 Ashex      I like that idea
23:15 valorie    in the call for noms
23:16 althara    I can volunteer to take on modifying the template for our purposes and creating the election wiki page.
23:16 valorie    yay!
23:16 xuCGC002   ok, that works out
23:17 valorie    When is the GSLUG meeting?
23:17 althara    Saturday at noon
23:17 Salt       next sat
23:17 Ashex      1/09
23:17 xuCGC002   where?
23:17 Salt       google fremont
23:17 althara    google campus in fremont
23:17 Salt       http://www.gslug.org/wiki/index.php/Meeting_2010-01-09
23:18 althara    Ok. So what date do we want to open the nominations? I will not have time to do the template until tonight/tomorrow morning.
23:18 Ashex      Not before Wednesday I would imagine
23:19 Ashex      Do we want to just open nomination this coming weekend?
23:19 Salt       i can make an announcement at gslug for this group
23:19 Salt       might add some new people
23:20 althara    I'd be fine with opening it on Saturday.
23:20 Ashex      That works really well actually
23:20 valorie    Thank you Salt
23:20 * valorie  is unsure of GSLUG attendence
23:20 xuCGC002   i cant be there, unfortunately
23:20 Ashex      I would like to motion that we open nominations on Saturday January 9, 2010
23:20 valorie    although a couple of those talks sound interesting
23:20 * Ashex    is unable to attend any GSLUG meeting for the forseeable future
23:20 althara    Ashex: seconded
23:20 * Salt     shakes fist at Ashex
23:20 valorie    lol
23:20 xuCGC002   Ashex: i don't think i can attend any either
23:21 Ashex      I work Saturdays 8am-7pm :(
23:21 althara    vote, all those in favor of opening the call for nominations for the committee members on January 9, 2010?
23:21 althara    +1
23:21 valorie    yes
23:21 Salt       +1
23:21 Ashex      Aye
23:21 GreySim    +3
23:21 GreySim    bah
23:21 GreySim    1
23:21 xuCGC002   - (-1)
23:21 peanutb    +1
23:22 ChuckWest  maybe, is that too soon?
23:22 aendruk    +1
23:22 althara    ChuckWest: this is to opne the two week call for nominations.
23:22 peanutb    nominations will be open for two weeks from then Chuck, i think thats plenty of time
23:22 ChuckWest  OK
23:22 xuCGC002   in fact, more than enough :P
23:23 althara    vote, all those opposed to opening the call for nominations for the committee members on January 9, 2010?
23:23 valorie    but that gives people time to think about building their wiki pages, and such
23:23 althara    I believe the ayes have it.
23:24 xuCGC002   valorie: aah, that slipped my mind
23:24 althara    So. We only scheduled 1 hour for the meeting.
23:24 althara    And we're 16 minutes over.
23:24 althara    Do we want to vote on the next meeting time and push the rest of the agenda out?
23:25 GreySim    I've got time, if there's more stuff. For a first (renewed) meeting I think if people can stay the more that gets done the better.
23:25 xuCGC002   hopefully we can cover more topics next time
23:25 Ashex      Althara, I have to leave shortly
23:25 althara    I may have a bit more time. (My toddler is home though she is otherwise engaged at the moment.)
23:25 Ashex      I've been taking minutes of the meeting, so if someone wants to take over that would be great
23:26 valorie    perhaps we can brainstorm a bit about the spring?
23:26 valorie    that need not be official
23:26 valorie    right?
23:26 xuCGC002   yeah
23:26 althara    correct
23:26 xuCGC002   what are we doing for UW, is what im most interested in
23:26 valorie    when is LinuxFest?
23:27 peanutb    End of April
23:27 althara    Hold up a sec. Lets wrap up the meeting if that is what we are doing
23:27 valorie    can that wait for discussion to next meeting?
23:27 Ashex      April 24/25
23:27 xuCGC002   april 24 and 25 is lfnw
23:27 valorie    cool
23:27 xuCGC002   darn, beat me to it! :D
23:27 Salt       are we wrapping up or continuing to discuss, either way i think we can talk about uw after
23:27 valorie    any other pressing business?
23:27 peanutb    http://linuxfestnorthwest.org , but lets wrap it up here first
23:28 valorie    then I move we adjourn the meeting
23:28 Ashex      Is there a motion to adjourn the meeting?
23:28 ChuckWest  An hour and a half is a good meeting huh?
23:28 valorie    heh
23:28 Ashex      Heh, I second
23:28 althara    Wait what about next meeting time?
23:28 althara    schedule another poll?
23:28 Ashex      Right, right
23:28 Ashex      Discussion!
23:28 althara    sorry!
23:28 ChuckWest  Forums..
23:28 valorie    2 weeks?
23:28 althara    I think 1 or 2 weeks is good
23:28 Ashex      I'll be in Alaska
23:28 althara    We still have a lot of broad things to discuss.
23:28 ChuckWest  FIne, remind with the mail list please.
23:29 ChuckWest  Thanks for the phone call BTW
23:29 Salt       np
23:29 Ashex      So we'll have another poll then?
23:29 valorie    I move we meet again in 2 weeks
23:29 ChuckWest  Also anyone can call me anytime at 360-292-7777. Thanks everyone.
23:29 valorie    and set the time with a poll
23:30 xuCGC002   ChuckWest: i shall now sell your number to telemarketers. :)
23:30 Ashex      I second the motion
23:30 Salt       is sunday pretty good for people?
23:30 xuCGC002   i second the poll
23:30 xuCGC002   i dont do anything on sunday, so ok
23:30 Salt       i know it's a lot better than sat for me
23:30 Ashex      Generally Sunday is good, I will be on a ski trip in 2 weeks time though
23:30 ChuckWest  Telemarketers think I'm a business so they don't call I think
23:30 GreySim    xuCGC002, it's on the front page of the OlyLUG group...if they want it they've already scraped it. :P
23:30 xuCGC002   saturday i usually do things elsewhere
23:30 valorie    saved, ChuckWest
23:30 althara    Vote, all in favor of the next meeting being Sunday Jaunary 17th with a poll to determine the time?
23:30 GreySim    +1
23:31 ChuckWest  +1
23:31 Salt       +1
23:31 peanutb    +1
23:31 valorie    yes
23:31 xuCGC002   GreaySim: there goes my main source of income. :-P
23:31 althara    +1
23:31 xuCGC002   crap
23:31 xuCGC002   +1 btw
23:31 Ashex      I Abstain
23:31 ChuckWest  Maybe every Sunday someday. It's easier to remember.
23:31 althara    All those opposed?
23:31 Salt       every week is a bad idea imho
23:32 peanutb    yeah. should we really wait two weeks though?
23:32 althara    Salt: +1
23:32 Salt       but right now it's good to get things moving
23:32 ChuckWest  OKK
23:32 althara    peanutb: I think it's good to wait with school starting up next weekf or most
23:32 ChuckWest  Whatever you all think is what I vote for.
23:32 peanutb    althara: right. thats a good point
23:32 althara    Ok so the ayes have it then.
23:32 valorie    I don't think it's bad to *gather* weekly
23:33 xuCGC002   neither do i
23:33 valorie    but a meeting weekly is a lot
23:33 ChuckWest  It has good points.
23:33 valorie    would seem like work
23:33 althara    I will set up the poll and announce to the mailing list.
23:33 valorie    instead of fun
23:33 althara    Now are we ready to move to close the meeting?
23:33 xuCGC002   what about meets in person?
23:33 valorie    I was thinking a pub would be fun
23:33 ChuckWest  I'm here in Olympia and sort of stuck.
23:34 althara    FOLKS
23:34 xuCGC002   what about those under the age of 21?
23:34 Ashex      I believe we are reading to adjourn
23:34 GreySim    Meeting can be closed.
23:34 althara    Lest wrap up the meeting
23:34 valorie    but high schoolers aren't gonna be welcome there'
23:34 xuCGC002   oh, sorry, yes, ket us wrap up
23:34 valorie    :(
23:34 ChuckWest  Buh-bye...
23:34 althara    Ok. Meeting ajourned.
</pre>
