{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Washington LoCo Leadership Nomination For Ahmed Osman
------------------------------
---------------

* Email: ashex@chipnick.com
* IRC: Ashex
* Launchpad Profile: https://launchpad.net/~ashex
* Wiki Profile Page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AhmedOsman

=== Bio ===

I have been a user of Linux since February 2006 and one of Ubuntu since March 2006. I have advertised Ubuntu in Schools and computer labs in the past along with assisting users with installs and configurations of their systems. In the past I have actively participated in the Washington team by tabling at LFNW, I have attended 3 events so far and will be assisting with getting us materials for this years event.

I have worked with Circle K International in the past, a collegiate non-profit volunteer organization and was the founding president for the Bellevue College club. In my spare time I enjoy doing photography, reading up on FOSS news, and travelling.

=== Future Goals for team ===

Were I to be given the opportunity to help guide this team I intend to help organize recurring events to spread the word of Ubuntu and also to encourage social events to help our team grow. 

Among my more specific goals I would like to achieve these:

* Get Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Edubuntu discs placed in public areas including but not limited to Libraries, colleges, and community centers.

* Encourage and help local groups transition to GNU/Linux.

* Eliminate stigmas concerning the difficulties of GNU/Linux.
