{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Proposed Team Projects: ===

* Ubuntu Global Jam event
* Leadership elections
* <nowiki>[[WashingtonTeam-Projects-Installfest|Installfest]]</nowiki>
* Table for handing out Lucid/Meerkat CDs at University of Washington campus HUB. 
* More <nowiki>[[Hour|Ubuntu Hours]]</nowiki>
* Start a weekly podcast of Ubuntu related news and information.
* Convince the Washington State government to use Ubuntu and free software where possible.

=== Team Projects in the works: ===

* Let's have a picnic for us geeks - <nowiki>[[WashingtonTeam-Projects-Geeknic|Geeknic]]</nowiki> 
 

=== Administrative Projects: ===

* Add other admins/moderators to mailing list, launchpad team, IRC channel (ops), and forums.
* Add IRC guide to wiki for people new to IRC.
** When this is written up, this URL to connect to IRC through a web browser would probably be useful. Just need to pick a nickname and hit Connect: http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-wa <<< the link is in the header - in the balloon that says '''HI''' 

=== Completed Projects ===

* Table at <nowiki>[[http://www.lfnw.org|LFNW]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Bug Triage demo in partnership with <nowiki>[[http://www.gslug.org|GSLUG]]</nowiki>
* Change name of Washington LoCo Launchpad team to ~ubuntu-washington to follow the standard in LoCoTeamHowTo
* Add Washington Team LoCo Launchpad team to https://launchpad.net/~locoteams
* Request Washington sub-forum
* Coordinate an IRC meeting <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WashingtonTeam/Meetings/CurrentAgenda|Current Agenda]]</nowiki> see Current Agenda page for meeting information.
