{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

This is the Ubuntu Washington LoCo Team wiki page. We are here to promote and support the use of Ubuntu and FLOSS in the State of Washington. 

* Have an idea for where we should distribute Ubuntu CDs? 
* Know of an event we should attend? 
* Need help getting Ubuntu installed? 
* Have a problem with something Ubuntu-related?

Email our mailing list or post on our forum. We're all volunteers and happy to help out.

== Resources ==

IRC Channel: #ubuntu-us-wa on irc.freenode.net:6667

IRC Logs: http://ilbot.colliertech.org/ubuntu-us-wa/

Blog Aggregator: http://blog.colliertech.org/planet/ubuntu-us-wa/

Mailing list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-wa

Launchpad Team: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-washington

Forum: http://washington.ubuntuforums.org

Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/ubuntu.us.wa

Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/ubuntuwa

Identi.ca: http://identi.ca/ubuntuwa

=== Contact ===

The official contact is Chuck West. He can be contacted at (360) 292-7777 or chuck@olylug.org for additional information. 

== How to Contribute ==

Join up and help out with some of our projects or suggest a project. You can join our team by first signing the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> and then joining our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-washington|Launchpad Team]]</nowiki>. We ask that you sign the code of conduct because it allows everyone to be on the same page as far as behavioral expectations are concerned.

We're very interested in adding members who can be liaisons with any of the linux user groups in Washington State. We would love to coordinate with Washington's LUGs for install fests, presentations, and providing Ubuntu user support.

Some of the active Washington State Linux User Groups:

* Bellingham Linux Users Group - http://www.blug.org
* Bellevue Linux Users Group - http://www.bellevuelinux.org
* Everett Linux Users Group - http://www.ericksons.net/elug
* Greater Seattle Linux Users Group - http://www.gslug.org
* Kitsap Peninsula Linux Users Group - http://www.kplug.org
* Olympia Linux Users Group - http://olylug.org
* South Puget Sound Linux Users Group - http://linux-now.us
* Spokane Linux Users Group - http://www.spokanelinux.org
* Tacoma Linux Users Group - http://www.taclug.org
* WSU Linux Users Group - https://lug.wsu.edu

== Projects ==

Our current projects include:

* Helping as many people start using Ubuntu as possible.

* Establishing a community hub of Ubuntu activity in Washington state.

* Distributing Ubuntu CDs throughout Washington.

* Coordinating events around Washington that will bring together Ubuntu users, and introduce more people to Ubuntu.

See <nowiki>[[WashingtonTeam-Projects]]</nowiki> for more information.

== Events ==

Take a look at our future and past events on the <nowiki>[[WashingtonTeam-Events]]</nowiki> page.

----
'''Sub-pages :''' 
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
