{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-karmic-wbem-providers
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': MathiasGug
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Wbem providers are one of the basic blocks of a CIM/WBEM infrastructure providing system information to the management tools. This specs outlines which providers should be packaged and which part of the CIM schema and CIM profiles are covered.

=== Release Note ===

Deploying Ubuntu systems in an WBEM/CIM infrastucture has been improved. A basic set of CIM providers are available from the archive. Parts of the core schema as well as the following profiles are covered: list of dmtf profiles covered.

=== Rationale ===

CIM and WBEM are standards that start to be used by management tools to provide an integrated view of an infrastructure. An Ubuntu system should provide basic information so that existing management tools can support Ubuntu systems.

=== User stories ===
* Peter uses Hp Insight''''''View to manage his enterprise network. Newly deployed new Ubuntu systems are automatically integrated in the management system.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

==== CIM schema coverage by management tools ====

Not all the CIM schema is leverage by management tools. We need to identify which part of the CIM schema is currently used by management tools and start by shipping providers covering it.

Existing management tools that leverage the CIM/WBEM platform:

* Dell OpenManage
* HP Insight software
* IBM Tivoli

==== Existing CIM providers ====

Existing open source projects:

* Opendrim: http://www.opendrim.org/opendrim
* OMC (Open Management with CIM): http://developer.novell.com/wiki/index.php/OMC
* Openpegasus: http://www.openpegasus.org/

==== Existing CIM management profiles ====

http://www.dmtf.org/standards/profiles/

=== Implementation ===

==== CIM schema coverage by existing tools ====

# Engage with Vendors to figure out which part of the schema is used.
# List CIM schema and profiles used.

==== Existing CIM providers ====

# List existing CIM providers for all the projects.
# List CIM schema and profiles covered.

===== Package opendrim providers that are useful for existing management tools =====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Packager
| Reviewer
| Projected delivery date
| Comments
|-
| 1. libopendrim-common
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Jul 10
| <nowiki>[[http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/libopendrim-common|REVU upload]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2. opendrim-lmp-baseserver
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Jul 17
| <nowiki>[[http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/opendrim-lmp-baseserver|REVU upload]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3. opendrim-lmp-ethernetport
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Aug 7
| 
|-
| 4. opendrim-lmp-systemmemory
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Aug 7
| 
|-
| 5. opendrim-lmp-recordlog
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Aug 7
| 
|-
| 6. opendrim-lmp-physicalasset
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Aug 7
| 
|-
| 7. opendrim-lmp-ip
| Guillaume Bottex
| MathiasGug
| Fri, Aug 7
| this one may produce error due to incompatibility with the cim schema version currently present in ubuntu
|}

===== Package sblim providers =====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Packager
| Reviewer
| Projected delivery date
| Comments
|-
| sblim-cmpi-fsvol
| ancoron
| MathiasGug
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/sblim-cmpi-fsvol|REVU upload]]</nowiki>
|-
| sblim-cmpi-network
| ancoron
| MathiasGug
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://revu.ubuntuwire.com/p/sblim-cmpi-network|REVU upload]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Existing CIM management profiles ====

# List existing management profiles.
# Match them with providers.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

=== Providers ===
* SBLIM
* Only a few providers, not so much momentum, no profiles
* OpenDRIM: Relatively new, match DMTF profiles, aims to cover all CIM

=== CIM Providers ===
* What should be the target?
** In the short term pick a single provider.
** Find a use case to get the provider working.
** Try not to overlap in providers, integrating by profile makes sense
** A tool to automatically track the coverage of the CIM schema by the providers isn't needed if we follow a profile-based approach.
** Cover the most useful providers, from an client software perspective
** See what Dell OpenManage, HP Insight* or IBM Director minimally want
** Focus on ones that are final release.

=== Base Server ===
* OpenDRIM Providers for the base server profile are ready.
* Make sure installation integrates.

=== Additional Vendors ===
* Novell has additional providers.
*** http://developer.novell.com/wiki/index.php/OMC
* http://www.openpegasus.org/

----
CategorySpec
