{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[http://web2py.com|web2py]]</nowiki> is described on the web site as a "free and open source full-stack enterprise framework for agile development of fast, scalable, secure and portable database-driven web-based applications. Written and programmable in Python."  I've begun reading the <nowiki>[[http://web2py.com/book|web2py book]]</nowiki> so that I can use it in my classroom.

This describes how I installed and setup web2py in my home directory.

## Download <nowiki>[[http://www.web2py.com/examples/static/web2py_src.zip|web2py_src.zip]]</nowiki>.
## Open a terminal and run the following commands:
*** <code>$ mkdir lib</code>
*** <code>$ mkdir lib/python</code>
*** <code>$ mkdir bin</code>
0. Add the following to the bottom of your `.bashrc` file: <pre>
      PYTHONPATH=$HOME/lib/python

      export PYTHONPATH</pre>
## Log out and log back in to allow the new `bin` directory and `PYTHONPATH` to take effect.
## Unzip the `web2py_src.zip` file (generating the `web2py` directory), and move `web2py` to your `lib/python` directory.
## Create a file named `web2py` in your `bin` directory with the following contents: <pre>
#### !/usr/bin/env sh

      cd $HOME/lib/python/web2py
      python web2py.py</pre>
     Run `$ chmod +x web2py` to make this shell script executable.
0. Run the following command from the terminal to install the `python-tk` package:
*** <code>$ sudo aptitude install python-tk</code>
0. Add a launcher to your top desktop panel:
*** Right mouse click on the panel.
*** Click `Add to Panel`.
*** Click `Custom Application Launcher`.
*** Click `Add`.
*** Set '''Name:''' to `web2py`.
*** Set '''Command:''' to `web2py`.
*** Optionally, set the icon to `lib/python/web2py/applications/examples/static/web2py_logo.png`.
*** Click `Add`.

You should now be able to launch `web2py` by clicking on the launcher.
