{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': https://launchpad.net/products/weberp/+spec/sie-export
* '''Created''':  by AndersWallenquist
* '''Contributors''': AndersWallenquist
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
SIE-export/import-files (http://www.sie.se) are a common standard for exchange of economical information and are a mandatory function in Sweden.

WebERP is an integrated suite of web-based business management software. The software covers accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory management and general accounting requirements. https://launchpad.net/products/weberp  http://weberp.org/

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===
Joe has a small business and are using WepERP for his general ledger. His external auditing request reports in SIE-format each month on their mail.

Britta does her accointing in SPCS erp-package today but wants to checkuout WebERP. She loads WebERP with her own data from SPCS using the SIE-format.
=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

http://www.sie.se/download/sieform.pdf
http://www.sie.se/download/TestData.zip

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
