{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


"Webmin is a web-based interface for system administration for Unix. Using any modern web browser, you can setup user accounts, Apache, DNS, file sharing and much more. Webmin removes the need to manually edit Unix configuration files like /etc/passwd, and lets you manage a system from the console or remotely." - Webmin official website

Webmin is basically a program made of different modules that make system administration easy. There are modules for different softwares available at: 

----
http://www.webmin.com/standard.html
----

=== Installation of Webmin ===

Installing webmin is relatively easy, first we will deal with the dependicies, at ubuntu terminal type 

----
apt-get install ssh openssh-server  
----
This is so that we can remotely use software like putty to access the shell. You can download putty and install it on your desktop. All you need to do then is type in your Ubuntu box IP and log on as usual.

Now then, we have that just go to their website: http://www.webmin.com/

and then on the left hand side you will find a link to download a .deb package, download that and then just install like a regular debian package. That's it all installed Now you have got a lot of modules you can install most of which can be done via webmin itself. Logging in to webmin can be accomlished by the following:

* IP:10000 
* Or your_hostname:10000 
* Or if dns is steup servername:10000

==== Finding more information ====

Just check on their website for more information on webmin, this is another great tutorial I found on youtube on how to install webmin:
----
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrraRReECRg
----

Hope you enjoy an easy system administration with webmin
