{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Proposed text to help choose which Ubuntu version to download (as per <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website-content/+bug/585940/comments/111|comment #111]]</nowiki> in Bug Bug:5894)

This would be used at:
* http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/
* http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download

=== Proposed text ===

* PC (Intel x86) desktop CD
   For almost all PCs. This includes most machines with Intel/AMD/etc type processors and almost all computers that run Microsoft Windows, as well as newer Apple Macintosh systems based on Intel processors. Choose this if you are at all unsure. Please note the 32-bit installer will run on both 32-bit and 63-bit systems.
* 64-bit PC (AMD64) desktop CD
   Choose this to take full advantage of computers based on the AMD64 or EM64T architecture (e.g., Athlon64, Opteron, EM64T Xeon, Core 2). If you have a non-64-bit processor made by AMD, or if you need full support for 32-bit code, use the Intel x86 images instead. Please note the 64-bit installer will only run on 64-bit systems. Also see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/TechnicalOverview#64-bit|known issues]]</nowiki> for 64 bits systems before using this installer.
