{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Instructions ==

'''This page is a draft - don't translate draft versions'''

This page is maintained by the Web Presence Team.

A copy of this page should be translated for each human language and saved as ./LocalizedResources/en-us (for example). Once completed notify the web presence team of the revision containing the approved content so that it can be updated on the website.

The below text should be copied and localized in entirity, replacing "English" with the localized language.

* todo: how to distinguish between variations of the same language? Should it be "Help in English" or should it be "Help in US English"?

The "local user gropus" should be links to accepted loco teams. Because one language may have several teams it's ok to link to multiple teams. Each of the bullet items should be a link to that resource on the web.

== Ubuntu Resources in English ==

There are additional resources for people who speak English.

** Download and installation instructions (should be a link)
** Discussion forums
** Email mailing list
** Online chat
** Local user groups
*** Local user group #1 - website / contact info
*** Local user group #2 - website / contact info
