{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''This is a page listing typos/grammar mistakes/stylistic problems/usability problems on the Ubuntu.com website.  Please add more if you find them!'''

== Writing for the web ==

Quite apart from correct spelling and grammar, writing content for the web is a specialist skill.

See Jakob Nielsen's page on Writing for the Web at '''<nowiki>[[http://www.useit.com/papers/webwriting/]]</nowiki>''' for more information.

== Apostrophe mistake on http://www.canonical.com/netbooks ==
<nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/netbooks]]</nowiki>

The second paragraph (just below the video graphic) says '''"OEM's"''' when it should read '''''"OEMs"'''''

== First sentence too long: http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/NonTechnicalUsers ==
<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/NonTechnicalUsers]]</nowiki>

The first sentence is this:

"If you are artistic, you can share your talent by helping us to improve the style and feel of the Ubuntu desktop by contributing artwork, or helping to design the themes for the next release of Ubuntu."

It's too long and doesn't meet basic principles of writing for the web.  It's particularly important to get this right because a) it's the first sentence on the page and b) the vast majority of Ubuntu users who wish to contribute are probably not technically inclined, and thus this page is their starting point.

It should be split in two like this:

''"If you are artistic, you can share your talent by helping us to improve the style and feel of the Ubuntu desktop.  You can contribute artwork or help to design themes for the next release of Ubuntu."''

(or similar).

There is a further problem on the following paragraph - there should be a full stop after the '''''Art Team''''' link.
----
CategoryWebsite
