{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== The Web Presence Team ==

The web presence team is a group of people who help to ensure that the Ubuntu.com websites meet the needs of people searching for information about Ubuntu and related projects. Currently there is collaboration between multiple affected Ubuntu community teams such as Kubuntu, Edubuntu, the Documentation team and the Marketing team.

We have a goal outlined at <nowiki>[[Website-Goals]]</nowiki>. Membership is open to anyone who feels qualified but we do ask people to adhere to code of <nowiki>[[Website-Conduct]]</nowiki>.

=== Reporting website problems ===

The best way to report a problem is through launchpad's bug tracker. Please see https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-website-content/+filebug or you can hop onto irc and report it in #ubuntu-website on freenode.

=== IRC ===

There is an IRC chat room on freenode, it is #ubuntu-website and is rather quiet. Please join and liven up the conversation a little. You can <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/|view past logs]]</nowiki> here.

=== Mailing List ===

If you would like to participate in the Ubuntu Website team please join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-website|MailingList]]</nowiki>

=== Tasks ===

Our current tasks are:

* <nowiki>[[Website-PreciseCountdownBanner]]</nowiki> Help design a count-down banner announcing the 12.04 LTS launch!
* <nowiki>[[Website-WebThemes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-CommunityWebsite]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-Wanted]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website|CloseBugs]]</nowiki>

Future tasks are:

* <nowiki>[[Website-WebsiteLocalization]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-MinorWikiTweaks]]</nowiki>: slight improvements to the wiki, not a major rewrite
* Your ideas here...

Past tasks are:

* <nowiki>[[Website-OneiricCountdownBanner]]</nowiki> Be famous, design a count-down banner announcing 11.10's launch!
* <nowiki>[[Website-FridgeTheme]]</nowiki> - Phase 1, mock-ups, due April 6th
* <nowiki>[[Website-StartPage]]</nowiki> In Progress
* <nowiki>[[Website-MaverickCountdownBanners]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-KarmicCountdownBanners]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-JauntyCountdownBanners]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-IntrepidCountdownBanners]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-IntrepidFeatureTour]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-IntrepidStartPage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Website-HardyStartPage]]</nowiki>

=== Meetings ===

Please join the #ubuntu-website channel and lets discuss how to get more community involvement.

* <nowiki>[[Website-NewBrandLaunchMeeting]]</nowiki> Thursday, May 20th 16:00 GMT

== Sub-pages ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:80%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">This page has several sub-pages used to work out the details:
|-
| 
|}
CategoryWebsite
