{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
11:07 < newz2000> cjohnston: are you leading the meeting?
11:07 < cjohnston> I can
11:07 < cjohnston> hehe
11:07 < newz2000> :-) Be my guest
11:08 < cjohnston> dpm: basically the idea behind this project is not to translate the ubuntu.com website, but provide the user with links to provide them with more assistance in their prefered language based upon their browser defined preferred language
11:09 < dpm> ok, I'm here now, I apologise for the delay
11:09 < cjohnston> no  problem dpm :-)
11:10 < cjohnston> we are going to need help from both web developers, loco teams and translators in order to make this project a success
11:10 < dpm> cjohnston, yes, that goes inline with a conversation I had with newz2000 some time ago. My preference would be to have all the website translated, but I understand the technical difficulties behind it
11:10 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has quit [Quit: alejandraobregon]
11:10 < newz2000> dpm: cjohnston will be leading this project
11:10 < newz2000> I'll be facilitating it of course
11:11 < dpm> cjohnston, you can expect all help you need form me, needles to say, I'm passionate about translations :)
11:11 < cjohnston> never would have guessed :-P
11:11 < dpm> :-)
11:11 < dpm> cjohnston, can you post the link to the spec as a reminder again, please?
11:12 < cjohnston> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/WebsiteLocalization/Roadmap
11:12 < dpm> great, thanks
11:13 < cjohnston> I of course am not a programmer, nor do i know any other languages... so I will definatly be in need of assistance
11:13 < newz2000> So what do you feel the next step is?
11:13 < cjohnston> Right now I feel like the next step is to start getting a team together...
11:13 < cjohnston> That include all of the aspects needed... 
11:14 < dpm> right, sounds good to me
11:14 < cjohnston> My thinking, but I don't know is that we will need some sort of database that has information for each language, and then have the code interact with that to pull the information
11:15 < cjohnston> but we will need people who can speak the other languages to help provide the information for the database... as well as someone to create the database..
11:15 < cjohnston> if a database isnt the best option though, i dont really know... so that will be something that i will be looking for help from my team with
11:16 < newz2000> There are a few different options, we can hammer that out when we have our technical meeting
11:16 < dpm> cjohnston, what's your vision, though? What do you expect a let's say, Spanish user to first see when he/she gets to ubuntu.com?
11:16 < newz2000> you picked the hardest one. :-)
11:17 < dpm> :) just to have a rough idea
11:17 < cjohnston> dpm: The vision was kind-of given to me... heh.. 
11:17 < newz2000> Lets use Turkish as an example
11:17 < dpm> right
11:18 < cjohnston> They will see the ubuntu.com website as it sits now... but it will have a "box" area which will provide some basic information on finding help in their language.. possibly under the search bar I believe is that newz2000 had mentioned
11:19 < newz2000> It will be very small and link to a page w/ more information that is entirely in Turkish
11:19 < dpm> ok, that's fine, I just wanted to have a general idea
11:19 < cjohnston> newz2000: are you thinking like one or two lines of text?
11:19 < newz2000> like 2-5 words
11:19 < cjohnston> ok.. gotcha
11:20 < newz2000> The reason Spanish is tricky, and where dpm can help the most
11:20 < newz2000> is cases where there are multiple parallel resources
11:20 < cjohnston> right
11:20 < dpm> I see we're you are going
11:20 < newz2000> for example, suppose a peruvian spanish speaker comes to the site
11:20 < newz2000> and there are some great es resources but only limited es-pr resources
11:20 < newz2000> it makes sense to show them the best resources
11:21 < newz2000> not just the es-pr options
11:21 < dpm> there are are umbrella teams for bigger areas, such as a general Spanish resource (and I think also for Brazil). We could reach out to them and make sure they've got a resource which links to each specific area or region
11:22 < dpm> I'll have to look into that
11:23 < newz2000> dpm: are loco team members also translators or are they often two different groups?
11:24 < dpm> newz2000, it varies from team to team. Sometimes they are LoCo members, but even if they are, the translations teams operate truly as subteams
11:24 < dpm> but actually
11:24 < dpm> Thinking of the most active translation teams
11:25 < dpm> at least their coordinators play a significant role in their respective LoCo teams
11:25 < newz2000> ok, that may make communication a little easier
11:25 < newz2000> cjohnston: I think that it may work best for the wiki to be the landing place for these translated pages
11:25 < dpm> and a translation team can obviously contain members from different, remote countries
11:26 < cjohnston> newz2000: thats what i was just thinking.. have the 4-5 word box point to a wiki page in their language which would provide more resources in their language?
11:26 < newz2000> yes
11:26 < newz2000> we'll need to create a template that the teams will translate
11:26 < cjohnston> ya
11:27 < dpm> that I can help with, setting up a template for translation wouldn't be too hard
11:27 < newz2000> but by doing it in the wiki, we have easy editiability and we don't have enforced structure so that teams like ES can deviate in order to communicte their special circumstances
11:27 < cjohnston> correct
11:28 < newz2000> cjohnston: ok so what do we do next?
11:28 < dpm> before further discussing, there's another important point: we're rapidly approaching Lucid, and if community members are working on this, I'm conscious not to put too much work on anyone shortly before release. Were you guys thinking on a particular timeframe?
11:29 < newz2000> post-release
11:29 < newz2000> by at least two weeks
11:29 < newz2000> or early April at the latest
11:29 < pak33m> hey all, cjohnston is having technical duifficulties and will return.
11:30 < pak33m> no really hes right next to me and having trouble with his screen freezing.
11:30 < dpm> pak33m, tell him not to worry :)
11:30 < newz2000> :-) thanks pak33m
11:31 < pak33m> ok... im over here for a minute
11:31 < newz2000> pak33m: what do you think about those dates I mentioned?
11:32 < pak33m> i obviously dont want to take anything away from lucid... but it would be nice to get it done as soon aspossible
11:32 < pak33m> uggh... netbook typing
11:32 < pak33m> those dates sound good to me
11:32 < newz2000> do you want to aim for pre-lucid?
11:33 < dpm> newz2000, I'm not sure pre-lucid would be too realistic, as I still don't quite understand all the work involved
11:33 < pak33m> newz2000: im not sure if prelucid is dooable
11:33 < dpm> I think we should start with a spec
11:33 < newz2000> ok
11:33 < newz2000> I'm very happy to aim for post lucid myself
11:33 < pak33m> im in the same boat as dpm as far as the work involved
11:33 < newz2000> if we were aiming for pre-lucid we'd have to jump through some sizable hurdles asap
11:34 < pak33m> i would like to aim mid/late may if thats fine with you
11:34 < newz2000> That sounds like a good plain in my book
11:34 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has joined #ubuntu-website
11:35 < newz2000> dpm: have you heard if plans for lucid+1's location/date for UDS is set?
11:35 < pak33m> my thoughts are that we need to start putting together a team that has members from all different aspects of our needs
11:35 < pak33m> things we need to do:
11:35 < pak33m> design a mock-up for approval
11:35 < pak33m> create the wiki page template
11:36 < pak33m> have the template translated and have approved resources placed into the wiki pages for each language
11:36 < dpm> I'm not sure there is a public date yet
11:37 < pak33m> design the code that will pull the browser setting from the browser and cross reference it against the information we have gathered to tthen output the information to the ubuntu.com wbesite
11:37 < pak33m> newz2000: are you wanting this to only be on ubuntu.com or ubuntu.com/* for people who dont go straight to ubuntu.com
11:38 < newz2000> ubuntu.com/* definitely
11:38 < pak33m> ok.. cool
11:38 < newz2000> *.ubuntu.com maybe
11:38 < pak33m> newz2000: ok
11:39 < pak33m> this is nice.. i have someone trying to figure out the problem with my laptop while i use his netbook
11:39 < newz2000> :-)
11:39 < newz2000> There is typically a UDS about 2-4 weeks after a release
11:40 < pak33m> newz2000: any comments on the plan above.. or dpm
11:40 < newz2000> so I wonder if we can target a date that helps us to benefit from the excitement/energy around a UDS
11:40 < dpm> pak33m, newz2000, I think before we start creating a team we should write up a spec linked to a blueprint with all the work involved. We have a goal, but I think we need to provide some more information to those wanting to join th team and start helping
11:40 < pak33m> dpm: good point
11:40 < newz2000> I agree
11:41 < dpm> I think we can start with the current page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Website/WebsiteLocalization/Roadmap
11:41 < pak33m> just expand upon it more
11:41 < dpm> yes
11:42 < dpm> just write a high level spec on the wiki
11:42 < dpm> and create a blueprint with some work items
11:42 < dpm> when we've got that, we can announce the project and tell people in more detail what the goal is
11:43 < dpm> they can then join and help refining the work items
11:43 < dpm> and bring in new ideas
11:43 < pak33m> that was part of the point for this meeting to help define some of the things that needed to be done
11:43 < newz2000> I think your high-level list is pretty good
11:43 < newz2000> that you put here into IRC
11:44 < pak33m> ok..
11:44 < pak33m> when i get my computer back i will start working on translating things from here onto the wiki page
11:45 < pak33m> newz2000: where should i create blueprints at..
11:45 < newz2000> does it get tied to a team or a project?
11:45 < pak33m> im not the greates with lp
11:45  * newz2000 isn't either
11:45 < pak33m> project i believe
11:45 < dpm> newz2000, I'd say a project for now
11:46 < pak33m> but then the project needs a driver
11:46 < pak33m> i believe
11:46 < newz2000> ok. We have a team but we probably want a new project
11:46 < dpm> is there any ubuntu-site related project in LP?
11:46 < pak33m> theres website-editors
11:46 < newz2000> that's the team I was thinking of
11:46 < newz2000> the closest project we have is https://launchpad.net/products/ubuntu-website
11:46 < newz2000> oh, that's a product. Is that the same as a project?
11:47 < pak33m> ive never seen a product
11:47 < pak33m> but i dont think so
11:47 < pak33m> http://launchpad.net/gtg is a project i believe
11:47 < pak33m> and then http://launchpad.net/~gtg would be a team
11:48 < newz2000> oh, they are the same
11:48 < newz2000> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-website == https://launchpad.net/products/ubuntu-website
11:48 < pak33m> k
11:48 < dpm> I think a product/project can contain subprojects, IIRC. Product is only the internal name for a project
11:49 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has quit [Quit: alejandraobregon]
11:49 < dpm> so attaching a blueprint to ubuntu-site sounds like a good idea to me
11:49 < newz2000> ok
11:49 < pak33m> ok
11:49 < pak33m> newz2000: stupid question... do i have access to that project?
11:49 < newz2000> I'm not sure
11:50 < newz2000> (though you are the top contributor) :-)
11:50 < pak33m> lol
11:50 < pak33m> then i may
11:50 < pak33m> ill have to look
11:50 < dpm> I think everyone can register blueprints, though
11:50 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has joined #ubuntu-website
11:50 < pak33m> dpm: i have have tried creatinng blueprints on things before and been told i dont have access
11:50 < pak33m> but i dont know
11:50 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has quit [Remote host closed the connection]
11:51 < newz2000> dpm: do you have any experience in translating large blocks of text?
11:51 < pak33m> maybe ill look for someone really good with lp hehehe
11:51 < newz2000> Do we use launchpad for that?
11:51 < newz2000> oh, wait, no we'll use the wiki
11:51 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has joined #ubuntu-website
11:51 < dpm> newz2000, ubuntu-docs for example. We always break things in paragraphs to ease the translation
11:53 < pak33m> after i get home ill start looking around as far as lp to see what i can come up with to get the ball rolling as far as setting up the specs and such
11:53 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
11:53 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has joined #ubuntu-website
11:54 -!- alejandraobregon [~alejandra@91.189.88.12] has quit [Client Quit]
11:54 < newz2000> ok. I'm happy to help you however I can
11:54 < pak33m> cool
11:54 < dpm> ok, I'd say at this point we could summarize and perhaps set a date for another meeting for review, what do you think?
11:54 < pak33m> that works for me dpm
11:55 -!- qense [~qense@ubuntu/member/qense] has joined #ubuntu-website
11:55 < pak33m> so for now, i am going to work on expanding on the specs on the wiki page, and setting up a blueprint...
11:55 < pak33m> ill pass those on to you two for review when im complete
11:55 < dpm> pak33m, cool, remember that in the meantime if you need any help you just have to ping us
11:55 < pak33m> sounds gread dpm
11:56 < dpm> you can use the subpages under https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/ as a template for a spec
11:56 < pak33m> ok... thanks for the link
11:56 < dpm> there is a template somewhere in the wiki, but it'll take me some minutes to find
11:58 < pak33m> ok..
11:58 < newz2000> pak33m: when it comes time to start recruiting help, let me send the first email introducing you as the lead for this project.
11:58 < pak33m> ok
11:58 < pak33m> that sounds fine
11:59 < dpm> pak33m, there it is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecTemplate, you can take out the chunks that do not apply to this particular spec
11:59 < pak33m> do we need another meeting prior to starting recruiting or do you think we can do it informally over irc/email?
11:59 < pak33m> thanks dpm
12:00 < newz2000> I'm ok w/ informal but I'm always here anyway. Happy to have another meeting if it helps dpm.
12:00 < pak33m> ok.. well.. i say we leave it as next meeding tbd depending on need
12:00 < newz2000> ok
12:00 < dpm> pak33m, I'd say we schedule another meeting to review the spec. Would a week or two give you enough time for the spec, pak33m?
12:00 < pak33m> ok... if you would like to do another meeting that is fine..
12:01 < dpm> I think it would help fleshing things out a bit
12:01 < pak33m> dpm: newz2000 the week of the 22nd would be best for me i think... not monday and not at 1300 est all week
12:02 < newz2000> how about this same time two weeks from now?
12:02 < pak33m> if you two can come up with something that works around that i should be good
12:02 < pak33m> thats fine with me.. dpm
12:02 < pak33m> ?
12:02 < dpm> newz2000, ^ that sounds good to me
12:02 < dpm> yes
12:02 < pak33m> ok.. great
12:02 < newz2000> cool.
12:02 < pak33m> two weeks.. the 26th.. awesome
12:03 < newz2000> thanks guys, thanks pak33m for leading this. I'm excited to see it come through.
12:03 < dpm> pak33m, great!, thanks for driving this, as I say, you know where we are, just ping if you need any help until then
12:03 < pak33m> thanks all :)
</pre>
