{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the '''3rd''' meeting of the '''Welsh LoCo Team''', starting at 19:37 GMT and finishing at 20:57 GMT

== Attendance ==

Please type PRESENT when the meeting starts to indicate who is online and paying attention.

'''Active Atendees:'''
* ianto
* brobostigon
* arthurL
* TonyP
* kn100
* The_Toxic_Mite

== Minutes ==
* A summary of the meeting will be placed here after the meeting. Topics will be linked to the topics in the log.

== Guide Lines ==
The meeting moderator will ensure key points are discussed. Key points from the Agenda will be noted by <code>[TOPIC] Agenda item</code>. When ideas are put forward to be considered they should be noted by <code>[IDEA] Idea</code>. The meeting moderator will indicate the final state of each topic by <code>[ACTION] Action being taken</code>. This should signify that the topic is discussed and the meeting is moving forward. The meeting moderator will use special tags to start and end the meeting and its recording. Please see <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot| MootBot]]</nowiki> for details on specific tags.

== IRC LOGS ==
{{{#!irc
19:37 < MootBot> Meeting started at 13:37. The chair is ianto.
19:37 < MootB [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
19:37 < brobostigon> present
19:37 < ianto> [topic] Intro
19:37 < MootBot> New Topic:  Intro
19:37 < ianto> Present
19:37 < ianto> Right first off I just made a little agenda summary on the wiki
19:37 < ianto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam/IRC/Agenda
19:37 < ianto> These will be discussion topics for today
19:38 < brobostigon> minute, i will w3m
19:38 < ianto> Right, first off as maany of you do know, we have our forums setup.
19:38 < ianto> What would you like to see in there?
19:38 < ianto> As so far only I and TonyP have posted there
19:38 < kn100> ianto i didnt know they existed
19:38 < TonyP> yep
19:39 < kn100> maybe better advertising
19:39 < ianto> kn100: http://cymru.ubuntuforums.org/
19:39 < kn100> thanks you
19:39 < ianto> [topic] Forums
19:39 < MootBot> New Topic:  Forums
19:39 < ianto> Oops forgetting stuff as the IRC chair d'oh
19:40 < ianto> Regardless, how many of you utilise the ubuntuforums.org forum normally?
19:40 < kn100> a lot of the time, the search feature is handy when looking for how to do stuff
19:41 < brobostigon> well the forums are there, to discuss anything that could be disccused within ubuntu-cymru, ie anything.
19:41 < TonyP> Not much myself, launchpad for me
19:42 < ianto> Right, so for example what would you want to be discussed in the forums?
19:42 < TonyP> I will monitor our forum though
19:42 < brobostigon> ianto: anything, and everything i suspect can be discussed via the forum.
19:42 < kn100> i think the forums would be best discussing what is happening within the group
19:42 < ianto> P.S. get posting in the intro thread!
19:42 < brobostigon> kn100: and technical questions,
19:43 < ianto> [action] Post in the intro thread
19:43 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Post in the intro thread
19:43 < ianto> :)
19:43 < ianto> Right so when new stuff comes up and even stuff that gets discussed inthe meetings
19:43 < ianto> We  will relay them onto the forums
19:43 < ianto> We have an interest over there now hopefully :)
19:44 < brobostigon> thats good thinking ianto
19:44 < ianto> Right makes sense, we can use the forums with SFD too (later in the meeting)
19:45 < brobostigon> SFD?
19:45 < ianto> Software Freedom Day
19:45 < kn100> i dont know what to put in my intro post :)
19:45 < brobostigon> :), i just changes to w3m ,to check,
19:46 < ianto> kn100: Do that after :)
19:46 < ianto> kn100: I'll talk you through it if needed ;p
19:46 < brobostigon> so we all post an intro about ourselves to the forum,?
19:47 < kn100> kn100 nah i just posted something short
19:47 < ianto> kn100: Cool enough
19:47 < ianto> brobostigon: Later to acknowledge that we know that it exists!
19:48 < ianto> s/it/the\ forums
19:48 < brobostigon> ianto: ok, i understand,
19:48 < ianto> Right any other topics related to the forums that you guys wanna bring up?
19:48 < brobostigon> nope, ianto
19:49  * ianto is rushing btw if you are wondering ;)
19:49 < brobostigon> why rush?
19:49 < ianto> Otherwise we could be here for 3 hours :9
19:49 < kn100> :O
19:50 < ianto> TonyP: Any input? :)
19:50 < TonyP> not really, but I would like to see more intros
19:50 < brobostigon> ok ianto :)
19:51 < ianto> [topic] New Website
19:51 < MootBot> New Topic:  New Website
19:51 < ianto> We currently have a server ready for our website
19:51 < ianto> http://98.142.208.108
19:51 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://98.142.208.108
19:51 < ianto> It is a VPS however we don't yet have our domain
19:52 < ianto> We will obtain this (hopefully) next week at UDS thanks to Jorge 
19:52 < kn100> ianto are you looking to pay for the domain?
19:52 < ianto> kn100: Ubuntu-eu provides it for free
19:52 < TonyP> i see it works:)
19:52 < ianto> So far the VPS has hardly any web content
19:52 < ianto> However what we do have is http://98.142.208.108/planet
19:52 < kn100> <html><body><h1>It works!</h1></body></html> epic html code
19:52 < ianto> Which will be planet.ubuntu-cym.org
19:53 < ianto> Firstly, what platform would you prefer our site to be?
19:53 < ianto> i.e. Drupal, Django etc
19:53 < ianto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCreatingWebsite
19:53 < ianto> On that site there are examples of which to use :)
19:54 < ianto> There are awesome Drupal templates available ;)
19:54 < brobostigon> i dont have the design knowledge to suggest anything here.
19:54 < kn100> no comment
19:54 < ianto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Templates
19:54 < ianto> Examples of some templates available for us to use
19:56 < brobostigon> i personally prefer darker themes, easier on my eyes, like brobostigon.wordpress.com
19:56 < ianto> I am seeking volunteer website maintainers to help adminstrate the site if they wish
19:56 < ianto> And someone to fix brobo & The Planet ;)
19:56 < brobostigon> ianto: i can put my name up for that. i have some stuff to learn.
19:56 < brobostigon> though*
19:57 < kn100> ianto
19:57 < kn100> http://laubuntu.axxium.us/
19:57 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://laubuntu.axxium.us/
19:57 < kn100> thats xoops
19:57 < kn100> it looks great
19:58 < TonyP> i like that too
19:58 < ianto> We have to find a trade-off between adminstrative difficulty and prettiness too ;)
19:58 < brobostigon> there no point in prettiness if its difficult to look after.
19:58 < kn100> yeah
19:59 < kn100> wiki is awesome,
19:59 < kn100> mediawiki
19:59 < ianto> We utilise moin wiki at wiki.ubuntu.com kn100 
19:59 < kn100> yes i see
20:00 -!- The_Toxic_Mite [n=calvinps@host86-148-24-40.range86-148.btcentralplus.com] has joined #ubuntu-cym
20:00 < kn100> hi thetoxicmite?
20:00 -!- arthurL [n=arthur@79-67-209-37.dynamic.dsl.as9105.com] has joined #ubuntu-cym
20:00 < ianto> arthurL: Good to see you
20:00 < The_Toxic_Mite> Hello?
20:00 < brobostigon> ok meeting chaps
20:00 < The_Toxic_Mite> kn100: hi
20:01 < arthurL> Sorry to be tarty to the party.
20:01 < The_Toxic_Mite> I created #ubuntu-sco by accident btw
20:01 < ianto> For those who just joined us, you ought to know thhat we are currently discussing  website platforms for ubuntu-cym.org
20:01 < The_Toxic_Mite> lol
20:01 < The_Toxic_Mite> arthurL: it's alright
20:01 < ianto> Paying attention to these templates https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Templates
20:01 < kn100> how easy is xoops to maintain?
20:02 < ianto> kn100: It's alien to me ;)
20:02 < ianto> [idea] Volunteer site maintainers for the website
20:02 < MootBot> IDEA received:  Volunteer site maintainers for the website
20:02 < kn100> Id help maintain the site, but i don't know how :)
20:03 < brobostigon> ianto: i put my name forward, also have some parts to learn, on that front,
20:03 < The_Toxic_Mite> kn100: +1
20:03 < The_Toxic_Mite> although I am not welsh, I would like to help maintain it
20:03 < The_Toxic_Mite> :D
20:03 < brobostigon> The_Toxic_Mite: i am not welsh either
20:03 < The_Toxic_Mite> brobostigon: Lol
20:03 < kn100> oh lawd, a person without welsh blood in thier vains in the ubuntu-cym channel? its anarchy i tellz you
20:04 < ianto> kn100: Just watch out for when we get overthrown ;)
20:04 < brobostigon> kn100: my dads family is welsh
20:04 < kn100> oh lawd, its anarchy
20:04 < The_Toxic_Mite> kn100: shut up
20:04 < kn100> :)
20:04 < ianto> Anyway back to the meeting, I enjoy the idea of Drupal as so many other loCos have skinned a template for it already
20:04 < The_Toxic_Mite> xD
20:04 < kn100> Drupal, an example of it?
20:04 < ianto> kn100: www.ubuntu.com ;)
20:04 < arthurL> I also favour Drupal
20:04 < brobostigon> ianto: ok, i dont know enough about drupal to give an opinion,
20:05 < kn100> well ubuntu.com looks awesome, so drupal +1
20:05 < ianto> Alright just a little vote to see who likes/is in favour of Drupal, use +1 for yes, 0 for abstain -1 for no
20:05 < arthurL> +1
20:05 < ianto> [vote] Should drupal be used for the stie?
20:05 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Should drupal be used for the stie?.
20:05 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:05 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-cym
20:05 < ianto> *site
20:05 < ianto> +1
20:05 < TonyP> +1
20:05 < MootBot> +1 received from TonyP. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:05 < MootBot> +1 received from ianto. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:05 < arthurL> +1
20:05 < kn100> +1
20:05 < MootBot> +1 received from arthurL. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:05 < MootBot> +1 received from kn100. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
20:06 < brobostigon> +1
20:06 < MootBot> +1 received from brobostigon. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:06 < ianto> Heh unanimous decision (excuse my spelling ;) )
20:06 < ianto> [endvote]
20:06 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:06 < ianto> Right that is sorted, second point across now, design our own theme or use another LoCo's?
20:07 < brobostigon> a drupal theme,
20:07 < kn100> ianto it depends, how easy is it to theme it?
20:07 < ianto> kn100: I'm not a designer, I can't even use GIMP
20:07 < brobostigon> i favour a darker theme,
20:07 < ianto> i.e. dunno ^
20:07 < TonyP> For speed use another LOCOs and fork it later
20:07 < arthurL> +1 for darker theme
20:07 < The_Toxic_Mite> How about a coffee-flavoured theme?
20:08 < kn100> i can make images, and icons etc etc, but i have no knowledge in theming drupal
20:08 < brobostigon> easier on eyes
20:08 < The_Toxic_Mite> :P
20:08 < ianto> So sticking with the universal Ubuntu theme is bad in your guys opinion?
20:08 < ianto> That nearly all sites use?
20:08 < ianto> exclusions to kubuntu ofc
20:08 < brobostigon> ianto: i dont laways like it,
20:08 < The_Toxic_Mite> [vote] Should the universal Ubuntu theme be used for the site?
20:08 < MootBot> The_Toxic_Mite, Only the meeting chair can do that
20:08 < kn100> universal ubuntu theme in my oppinion is too generic
20:08 < The_Toxic_Mite> ok mootbot
20:09 < ianto> [Vote] Standard Ubuntu Theme/Colours to be used?
20:09 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Standard Ubuntu Theme/Colours to be used?.
20:09 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:09 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-cym
20:09 < ianto> happy The_Toxic_Mite?
20:09 < ianto> +1
20:09 < MootBot> +1 received from ianto. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:09 < brobostigon> -1
20:09 < MootBot> -1 received from brobostigon. 1 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
20:09 < TonyP> +1
20:09 < MootBot> +1 received from TonyP. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:09 < arthurL> +1
20:09 < MootBot> +1 received from arthurL. 3 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:09 < The_Toxic_Mite> ianto: yeah :P
20:09 < The_Toxic_Mite> +1
20:09 < MootBot> +1 received from The_Toxic_Mite. 4 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:09 < kn100> -1
20:09 < MootBot> -1 received from kn100. 4 for, 2 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:09 < ianto> [endvote]
20:09 < MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 2 against. 0 abstained. Total: 2
20:09 < ianto> Hmm 2:1 outcome
20:10 < The_Toxic_Mite> Ubuntu colours to be used
20:10 < ianto> The two who voted against, why is that?
20:10 < The_Toxic_Mite> ianto: Re-start the poll?
20:10 < kn100> i find the ubuntu colours too generic
20:10 < brobostigon> i prefer darker themes ianto,
20:10 < kn100> i think we need something unique
20:10 < kn100> ubuntus base, but with a more welsh feel
20:11 < brobostigon> kn100: agreed. :)
20:11 < The_Toxic_Mite> kn100: good idea...
20:11 < TonyP> something Welsh?
20:11 < arthurL> We could always tweak it later.
20:11 < ianto> kn100: We can achieve that with a standard Ubuntu theme ;)
20:11 < kn100> revote then? :)
20:11 < ianto> [Vote] Standard Ubuntu Themeset to be used with tweaks?
20:11 < The_Toxic_Mite> Ubuntu logo in the colours of the welsh flag, perhaps?
20:11 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Standard Ubuntu Themeset to be used with tweaks?.
20:11 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:11 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-cym
20:11 < ianto> Happy now revoters?
20:11 < The_Toxic_Mite> +1
20:11 < MootBot> +1 received from The_Toxic_Mite. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:11 < ianto> +1
20:11 < MootBot> +1 received from ianto. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:11 < arthurL> +1
20:11 < MootBot> +1 received from arthurL. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:11 < kn100> +1
20:11 < MootBot> +1 received from kn100. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
20:11 < TonyP> +1
20:11 < MootBot> +1 received from TonyP. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:11 < brobostigon> +1
20:11 < MootBot> +1 received from brobostigon. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
20:12 < ianto> Alright 6:0
20:12 < ianto> [endvote]
20:12 < MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
20:12 < kn100> there we go
20:12 < The_Toxic_Mite> :D
20:12 < ianto> [action] Use standard Ubuntu theme for Drupal but  edit it here and there for personal effects
20:12 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Use standard Ubuntu theme for Drupal but  edit it here and there for personal effects
20:12 < ianto> personal/groupanal? :p
20:13 < ianto> Any other input for the website? :)
20:13 < The_Toxic_Mite> ianto: Ubuntu logo in the colours of the welsh flag
20:13 < arthurL> I've done a few
20:14 < ianto> The_Toxic_Mite: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam ;)
20:14 < ianto> Our logoo top right
20:14 < arthurL> They're nothing special but I'm hoping to work on them soon
20:14 < The_Toxic_Mite> neat!
20:14 < ianto> arthurL: Can you do a black line around the white circle of friendship block?
20:14 < ianto> To make it true white but stand otu
20:14 < ianto> *out
20:14 < The_Toxic_Mite> damn, I need to find someone that can speak Scots Gaelic
20:14 < arthurL> They'll all need a black line in that case
20:14 < The_Toxic_Mite> for my #ubuntu-sco channel
20:14 < ianto> arthurL: Yeah I know :)
20:15 < arthurL> I can do that
20:15 < ianto> Coolio good to hear
20:15 < kn100> any graphical work, im your man :)
20:15 < arthurL> In fact, I have. I think.
20:15 < ianto> We'll have a logo thread in the forums soon ;)
20:15 < ianto> [action] Logo thread in the forums
20:15 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Logo thread in the forums
20:15 < arthurL> http://ubuntuforums.org/group.php?groupid=502: What about this logo?
20:15 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuforums.org/group.php?groupid=502: What about this logo?
20:15 < arthurL> The one to the right, that is.
20:16 < kn100> http://ubuntuforums.org/image.php?s=1374244ac28f989ba5559bbdc858ba26&groupid=502&dateline=1239819707 im going to fork that
20:16 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuforums.org/image.php?s=1374244ac28f989ba5559bbdc858ba26&groupid=502&dateline=1239819707 im going to fork that
20:16 < ianto> Pretty sweet for a logo
20:16 < ianto> But not for a banner
20:16 < ianto> Because the text in the middle is complicated to read
20:16 < arthurL> I have done a banner too :P
20:16 < The_Toxic_Mite> :P
20:16 < kn100> what resolution do you want for the banner? im bored
20:17 < ianto> arthurL: P.S. we have forums now if you're not up to date
20:17 < arthurL> http://craiglomax.wordpress.com/2009/04/15/ubuntu-cym-logo-designs/
20:17 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://craiglomax.wordpress.com/2009/04/15/ubuntu-cym-logo-designs/
20:17 < arthurL> ianto: Oh yeah, noticed the forums
20:18 < ianto> Right logos in new thread when I get around to it (or someone else create the thread)
20:18 < ianto> Any other website input?
20:18 < kn100> we could archive IRC on it like ubuntu-uk do
20:18 < brobostigon> and stats
20:18 < ianto> kn100: I've requested and I am awaiting -eu to do that
20:19 < ianto> Been waiting two or so months now :(
20:19 < kn100> ahh i see#
20:19 < kn100> s/#/
20:19 < ianto> brobostigon: When the site is finished I'll add that too :)
20:19 < brobostigon> ianto: :)
20:19 < The_Toxic_Mite> BRB got to go in the bath
20:19  * The_Toxic_Mite is away: I'm busy
20:20 < ianto> http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1168870 For after the meeting
20:20 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1168870 For after the meeting
20:20 < ianto> Anything else to add on the website front before we can move on? :)
20:20 < arthurL> I have nothing to add.
20:20 < brobostigon> same here, nothing
20:21 < TonyP> same here
20:21 < ianto> That's enouggh for a pass then I guess
20:21 < brobostigon> ok
20:21 < ianto> [topic] Membership
20:21 < MootBot> New Topic:  Membership
20:21 < ianto> Right here is an idea that some locos use including the Catalan one (Catalann folk are like the Welsh of Spain)
20:22 < ianto> What we can do is offer rewards to those who are active in the -cym community
20:22 < ianto> Posting in the forums, helping users, helping people switch or just help in the mailing lists
20:22 < brobostigon> thats a good idea
20:22 < ianto> What the rewards (so far) will be is an @ubuntu-cym.org address and their blog to be aggregated to our planet
20:23 < arthurL> I can see it now; "You have been attributed 10 leeks"
20:23 < kn100> HAHAHAHA
20:23 < arthurL> Let's use leeks as a currency
20:23 < ianto> arthurL: Good idea ;)
20:23 < ianto> Like the coffee beans
20:23 < kn100> Thats an awesome idea
20:23 < arthurL> =]
20:23 < brobostigon> hehe, :)
20:24 < TonyP> can i convert my launchpad karma toleeks
20:24 < ianto> Of course anyone will be able to be a member and it'll be a lot less informal than official Ubuntu membership
20:24 < ianto> s/less/more
20:24 < ianto> Never use less and informal at the same time when you mean informal to start with!
20:25 < brobostigon> i agree, it a good idea, i like it,
20:25 < arthurL> +1
20:25 < ianto> Enough info to vote on it or you wanna add more input
20:25 < ianto> Or question it?
20:25 < kn100> vote i thinks
20:25 < arthurL> Looks good enough for a vote to me
20:25 < TonyP> ok
20:26 < ianto> [vote] Have our own form of membership?
20:26 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Have our own form of membership?.
20:26 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:26 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-cym
20:26 < ianto> +1
20:26 < MootBot> +1 received from ianto. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:26 < brobostigon> +1
20:26 < MootBot> +1 received from brobostigon. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:26 < kn100> +1
20:26 < MootBot> +1 received from kn100. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:26 < TonyP> +1
20:26 < MootBot> +1 received from TonyP. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
20:26 < arthurL> +1
20:26 < MootBot> +1 received from arthurL. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:26 < ianto> We only have 5 since the scotsman went for his bath
20:26 < ianto> [endvote]
20:26 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:26 < brobostigon> :)
20:27 < ianto> I'll leave SFD for the forums or discuss it here first?
20:27 < ianto> Software Freedom day
20:27 < kn100> for the forums
20:27 < brobostigon> ianto: what does it involve?
20:28 < ianto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam/SoftwareFreedomDay
20:28 < brobostigon> ok, i will have a look later, when we are done.
20:28 < ianto> brobostigon: It can be anything
20:29 < brobostigon> well i have a new chat engine for my website, ipv6 taylorworld.mooo.com/minichat , which a friend designed for me.
20:29 < ianto> I'll add that to our forums later then rather than spending many hours planning atm :p
20:29 < ianto> Or does anyone want to discuss it now?
20:29 < brobostigon> so i can host a freedom chat, untill we find a permenent server
20:30 < arthurL> I think it's more suited to the forums
20:30 < brobostigon> ok,
20:30 < ianto> Or even better a mailing list eh?
20:30 < ianto> [topic] List & Site
20:30 < MootBot> New Topic:  List & Site
20:30 < brobostigon> mailing list, :)
20:30 < arthurL> Either or
20:30 < ianto> Might as well add this taht jcastro & another friend will be setting it all up at UDS
20:30 < brobostigon> do we have a mailing list?
20:30 < ianto> In a week or two we will have confirmation of it
20:31 < TonyP> I like mailing lists myself
20:31 < brobostigon> ok, :)
20:31 < ianto> It deserved its own litttle topic even if it was just IT IS FINALLY BEINGDONE post ;)
20:31 < brobostigon> agreed ianto
20:31 < ianto> [Topic] Merchandise
20:31 < MootBot> New Topic:  Merchandise
20:32 < ianto> Right -cym lp members will know that I've been giving out freebies lately
20:32 < ianto> Such as case stickers, paper stickers and discs
20:32 < ianto> Given out near 100 discs and 40 or so stickers
20:32 < ianto> case stickers ^
20:32 < brobostigon> wow, :)
20:33 < arthurL> Golly, didn't think you'd give that much out
20:33 < ianto> But I've been emailing trademarks@canonical.com and they have permitted us to have -cym exclusive merchandise too
20:33 < TonyP> great
20:33 < ianto> I've been speaking to a local t-shirt manufacturer right here in this village and we can get t-shirts for Â£6
20:33 < ianto> And special mp3 hoodies too ;)
20:33 < brobostigon> ianto: thats good news, i rememer you telling me about that afew weeks ago,
20:33 < ianto> Unsure of the hoody cost atm
20:33 < arthurL> Wych!
20:34 < brobostigon> ubuntu-cym collar pins?
20:34 < ianto> In reality the cost of the T-shirt is Â£5 but as long as you guys agree, we can keep a log of purchases (exlcuding names and addresses) and use that extra Â£1 to -cym related stuff
20:34 < ianto> and keeping a log of purchases too
20:34 < ianto> i.e. VPS bills
20:35 < brobostigon> ianto: like a donation?
20:35 < ianto> Or renting a place for vfenues
20:35 < arthurL> Me likes
20:35 < ianto> brobostigon: Donation where you recieve a product too :)
20:35 < arthurL> It's more like a tax
20:35 < brobostigon> ianto: yep, :)
20:35 < ianto> Yeah UAT
20:35 < ianto> Ubuntu Added Tax
20:35 < arthurL> Lawld
20:35 < brobostigon> ucat, ubuntu-cym added tax
20:36 < ianto> Of course some people may see this as a bad move
20:36 < ianto> So I'd like to see what you guys think ;-)
20:36 < brobostigon> ianto: agreed, some might,
20:36 < brobostigon> i think it is a good idea,
20:36 < arthurL> ++;
20:37  * brobostigon bangs his head on the table, at seeing what his mum just put on the tv, :(
20:37 < ianto> Of course we can't all do this with one man, too much chance of corruption ;). We will need a treasurer too
20:37 < ianto> Or secretary
20:37 < brobostigon> thats definatly a good idea.
20:38 < arthurL> Agreed.
20:38 < brobostigon> and freely published
20:38 < arthurL> It *must* be someone who we can trust
20:38 < arthurL> and it *must* be transparent
20:38 < ianto> It *can't* be me ;)
20:38 < kn100> i will be the treasurer :p
20:38 < brobostigon> that makes sense ianto
20:38 < kn100> ;)
20:38 < ianto> kn100: Heh slow down you've only been here two days ;)
20:39 < arthurL> We could do a vote for the treasurer like we did for the POC
20:39 < kn100> i dont want to be the treasurer mate, i was being sarcastic
20:39 < TonyP> good idea
20:39 < ianto> Yeah that's a possibility but it has to be someone _reliable_
20:39 < arthurL> And good with money
20:40 < brobostigon> i will not put myself down for that job.
20:40 < ianto> That rules out half of the team then ;)
20:40 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-cym: Total of 17 nicks [0 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 17 normal]
20:41 < ianto> Is there anyone who'd like to volunteer however?
20:41 < arthurL> Yo.
20:41 < kn100> ianto i think you are best for the job
20:41 < ianto> kn100: Can't ;)
20:42 < kn100> cant?
20:42 < kn100> or wont
20:42 < kn100> :)
20:42 < ianto> Admittedly I know the person doing the job personally but I am already PoC so I can't be treasurer too
20:42 < arthurL> Division of labour and all that
20:43 < ianto> So arthurL has volunteered as a possible person? :)
20:43 < arthurL> Yeah.
20:43 < brobostigon> i will not volunteer
20:44 < ianto> First though we need ot confirm that we think it's a good idea before getting a person to do it ;)
20:44 < brobostigon> its a good idea.
20:44 < ianto> [vote] Have -cym branded merchandise with a treasurer to handle monies?
20:44 < arthurL> We have to prove that it's necessary
20:44 < MootBot> Please vote on:  Have -cym branded merchandise with a treasurer to handle monies?.
20:44 < MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
20:44 < MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-cym
20:44 < ianto> +1
20:44 < MootBot> +1 received from ianto. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
20:44 < arthurL> +1
20:44 < MootBot> +1 received from arthurL. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
20:44 < brobostigon> +1
20:44 < MootBot> +1 received from brobostigon. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
20:44 < TonyP> +1
20:44 < MootBot> +1 received from TonyP. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
20:44 < kn100> +1
20:44 < MootBot> +1 received from kn100. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
20:45 < ianto> [endvote]
20:45 < MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 5
20:45 < ianto> Coolio that is decided upon
20:45 < ianto> I'll write something up and do a lp vote later
20:45 < brobostigon> ok,
20:45 < arthurL> Wych
20:45 < ianto> [action] Explain to the rest of the team and setup a vote
20:45 < MootBot> ACTION received:  Explain to the rest of the team and setup a vote
20:45 < ianto> [topic] Misc.
20:45 < MootBot> New Topic:  Misc.
20:46 < ianto> In other news we have team reports in a new format
20:46 < ianto> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WelshTeam/TeamReports
20:46 < ianto> Report In progress = current month being compile, complete = last full month and past ones are the past
20:47 < kn100> i wonder if heddlu de cymru will change to ubuntu
20:47 < ianto> kn100: They haven't replied in 2months
20:47 < ianto> Gawd people hate me ;)
20:47 < ianto> First off they rejected the mail as a virus since I emailed with a PGP signature
20:47 < ianto> One of the good points of my mail ^
20:47 < arthurL> Hurr, they kind of deserve their computer systems to get raped.
20:47 < kn100> oh man... they rejected a pgp signature
20:48 < ianto> arthurL: +1
20:48 < kn100> hey, heres my entry to the ubucym logo
20:48 < kn100> http://i41.tinypic.com/eqe64p.jpg
20:48 < MootBot> LINK received:  http://i41.tinypic.com/eqe64p.jpg
20:48 < arthurL> Sweeet
20:48 < kn100> based it off the original one
20:48 < kn100> added a little informality
20:48 < arthurL> I like the type used for "Cymru".
20:49 < kn100> thanks :)
20:49 < kn100> its Purisa with a little modification
20:49 < arthurL> I have also toyed with the idea of a dragon in the middle of the logo too but I couldn't get it to work. You've pulled it off well.
20:49 < kn100> thanks :)
20:50 < arthurL> Try a daffodil :P
20:50 < kn100> or a LEEK!
20:50 < kn100> theres an idea
20:50 < arthurL> Try both
20:50 < arthurL> I think I'll give it a go too.
20:50 < ianto> Well we have a thread for that ;)
20:51 < ianto> Anything else people have issues with or like to add input to for the team?
20:51 < arthurL> Not me
20:51 < TonyP> me neither
20:51 < brobostigon> nope
20:52 < ianto> Alright then folks, thanks all for attending
20:52 < ianto> Oh another thing
20:52 < ianto> We will have an IRC time set in the forums
20:52 < ianto> for meetings
20:53 < brobostigon> please ellaborate, i am not sure what you mean ianto
20:53 < ianto> We will have a thraed to decide upon a good time for IRC meetings
20:53  * The_Toxic_Mite is back (gone 00:33:51)
20:53 -!- gneel [n=neil@gneel42.plus.com] has joined #ubuntu-cym
20:53 < brobostigon> ianto: ok, good idea,
20:53 < ianto> gneel: Hoi ;)
20:54 < kn100> gneel you missed the fun
20:54 < kn100> and arthurL i just tried both, came out rubbish
20:54 < gneel> Ah yes. I turned up last week thinking that's when the meeting was...
20:54 < kn100> :)
20:55 < ianto> Case 'n point regarding a thread on the topic ^
20:55 < arthurL> kn100; looks like I'll win that competition then ;)
20:55 < kn100> :)
20:55 < gneel> I realised last week that I was 7 days early. Then forgot about tonight...
20:56 < ianto> gneel: Ah don't worry we're about to close unless someone wants to add anything else?
20:56 < ianto> gneel: Logs available shortly
20:56 < brobostigon> ianto: yes mention, meeting times in topic,
20:56 < brobostigon> always,
20:56 < ianto> Alright this is finally the end of the meeting :)
20:57 < ianto> #endmeeting
20:57 < MootBot> Meeting finished at 14:57. 
}}}

----
CategoryScribesTeam CategoryTemplate
