{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Channel Guidlines ===

While in the Ubuntu-cym IRC channel (and in any other Ubuntu channel) you are expected to abide by the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> (CoC). Most of what is applicable to the IRC Channel can be summarised as follows (taken from <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>):

'''''Be respectful.''' The Ubuntu community and its members treat one another with respect. Everyone can make a valuable contribution to Ubuntu. We may not always agree, but disagreement is no excuse for poor behaviour and poor manners. We might all experience some frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a personal attack. It's important to remember that a community where people feel uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one. We expect members of the Ubuntu community to be respectful when dealing with other contributors as well as with people outside the Ubuntu project, and with users of Ubuntu.''

'''Please do not share inappropriate links or have discussions inappropriate for Ubuntu, either in channel or in private messages.'''

==== Language guidelines ====
A new channel policy on bad language has now been decided.

# Mild swearing is ok, as long as it isn't excessive or directed at a person.
# Any other bad language will result in a warning, or a kick at the operators discretion.

==== Rules Summary ====
The summary of the rules can be phrased as the following: 
1. Don't be a pain / Paid bod yn boen.

==== Credits ====
Special thanks to the Australian & UK teams to their IRC wiki template regarding the rules & regulations of Ubuntu IRC channels.

=== IRC Ops ===

IRC Ops are people in an IRC Channel who have extra privileges and responsibilities. They are the people to call for any trouble in a channel. Currently, the Ubuntu-cym IRC Channel has the following Ops:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''IRC Name'''
| '''Wiki'''
|-
| ianto
| <nowiki>[[Chris]]</nowiki>
|-
| dariusH
| <nowiki>[[darius]]</nowiki>
|-
| brobostigon
|-
| markjones
| <nowiki>[[MarkJones]]</nowiki>
|-
| FreeNode Staff
| 
|-
| Ubuntu Members
| 
|}

=== How to join our channel ===
Our IRC channel can be found at #ubuntu-cym on the FreeNode network (irc.freenode.net). Most clients will connect simply via "/server irc.freenode.net" & "/join #ubuntu-cym" however below are some instructions for popular Linux IRC clients.

==== XChat ====
1. Run the XChat client and then go to the XChat > Network List menu prompt (or the Ctrl-S keyboard shortcut).
2. If running XChat from the Ubuntu repositories, navigate to Ubuntu Servers under Networks, else navigate to FreeNode (either will work).
3. Highlight one of the two network tabs and press Edit..., under favourite channels place ''#ubuntu-cym, #ubuntu''. Notice that you can separate favourite channels with a comma. Tick ''Auto connect to this server at startup'' and then press Close to navigate back to the Network List prompt.
4. Under Nick name:, place your desired alias that you wish to choose to talk on IRC with and then with your desired server highlighted (FreeNode or Ubuntu Servers) click the connect button and you are now in #ubuntu-cym chat with the Ubuntu Cymru team.
5. Have fun chatting.

==== Pidgin ====
1. Open Pidgin and then open the Accounts > Manage Accounts menu prompt (or the Ctrl-A keyboard shortcut).
2. Under Protocol, choose IRC, for the Username & Local alias, set this to whichever alias that you wish to use to chat to other users in #ubuntu-cym; leave Server: as irc.ubuntu.com and now click Add.
3. In the main Pidgin window, click Buddies > Join a Chat, or the Ctrl-C keyboard shortcut and in the new prompt window, enter #ubuntu-cym under channel but ensure that the Account is whatever username you chose @irc.ubuntu.com and then press Join.
4. A new chat dialogue will appear, this is the IRC room in which we chat. You may see a userlist to the right-hand side of the screen by default, these are the members in the channel.
5. Chat in the box and have fun.

==== Konversation ====
1. Launch Konversation; if this is your first time running it a dialogue window will appear titled ''Server List - Konversation'', click Edit... on the Ubuntu IRC network.
2. In this new window, at the bottom there is an Auto Join Channels tab, here add #ubuntu-cym under channel.
3. If you wish to set your alias, click Edit... next to Identity and set your alias inside here. Press OK until returned to the ''Server List - Konversation'' window.
4. Here press "Connect" and wait a moment whilst the client connects to the server.
5. At the bottom of the client there will be tabs, click #ubuntu-cym and you are now able to participate in and view our chat. Take part & have fun.
----
CategoryWelshTeam
