{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wesleys|wesleys]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu forums''':
| '''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=116199|slakkie]]</nowiki>''' on ''ubuntuforums.org''
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''slacker_nl''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Ubuntu Member''':
| Not yet..?
|-
| '''Code of Conduct''':
| 2009-09-30
|}

=== Wesley Schwengle ===

==== About Me ====

I am a 30 year old Dutch system administrator. I have experience with Debian/Fedora/FreeBSD/Mandrake/Red Hat/Solaris/Ubuntu.

== Ubuntu Activity ==

* Mostly active on the Ubuntu forums.
* Active on Freenode irc network in Ubuntu channels.
* Written and maintaining two guides for the community wiki.
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades and all subpages
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Upgrades
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkConfigurationCommandLine/Automatic (needs to replace https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkConfigurationCommandLine )
* Reporting and validating bugs.
* Testing fixes of packages with developers (network manager/update-manager/guessnet/software-center).
* Initiated guessnet sync with Debian during Karmic alpha stage.
* Fixing small bugs (gdesklets on jaunty).
* Submitted patches for update-manager (in Lucid). Rewrite of man pages in docbook format (ongoing).
* Initiated backport of Simutrans for Karmic.

* Want to be more involved in packaging, eventually becoming a package maintainer for Ubuntu and/or Debian
* Testing 10.04 LTS, although it hasn't been a pleasant ride in the beginning. As a result I'm running Debian testing most of the time.

== FOSS supporter ==

I donate some amount of euro's to the PDPC organisation (Freenode). Please visit their site at: http://freenode.net/

== Other activities ==

I maintain some free services on my server:
* <nowiki>[[http://www.tsviewer.com/index.php?page=ts_viewer&ID=72397&n=Various| TeamSpeak 2 server]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pb.opperschaap.net| Pastebin]]</nowiki>

I also have a <nowiki>[[http://blog.opperschaap.net| blog]]</nowiki> which is aimed at Debian/Ubuntu and open source in general.
