{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== To Do ===

 1. Gather available skills and resources

=== Teams ===

# Recruiting
# Marketing
# Wiki
## Responsible for maintaining LouisianaTeam wiki and should also seek to improve the larger community wiki.  
## Should help guide new wiki users in learning how it is structured, edited, etc.  Assists members with their pages.  
## Creates templates for member pages, LouisianaTeam Pages, etc.
# Web
# Events
# Art/Production/Documents
# New Member Team

=== Projects ===

# CD Distribution
# LUG, PCUG Presentations
# Open format campaigns
# Small Business Setup Package
# Bug/wiki/doc/forum days
# Mentoring for (LoCo) members new to Ubuntu
# Participate in PC donation programs

=== Positions ===

# Community Contact
## Responsible for ensuring the Ubuntu community is made aware of our events, and tha the LoCo is also kept aprised of community events and meetings.
# Secretary
## Keep logs/summary of meetings.  Responsible for placing this on the wiki, or getting the into to the wiki team.
# Area Lead
## "Vice Presidents" in charge of geographical areas of the state.  Help in reaching out to new memebers and coordinating resources and events.

=== Wiki ===

 1. New Member Page with community primer for IRC, explanations of the wiki, LP, etc.  There may already be something like this.  If not, we should create this is a wiki page instead of a LoCo page.
