{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-AU Artwork ==

=== Overview ===
This is a central place to store and any completed or works in progress relating to the Ubuntu-IN-WB team. Feel free to add your own work to this page if it is Ubuntu-IN-WB specific. 

==== Guidelines (Legal Stuff) ====
Please make sure that you read the <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/ubuntu-brand-guidelines/|Ubuntu Brand Guidelines]]</nowiki> when you are thinking about creating artwork. This will ensure you are following all branding procedure as set out by Canonical regarding colours, backgrounds, logos and fonts. This is also a very handy link to get some base materials to start your projects with.

If you are looking to use any of the materials here please have a look at <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/License|the Ubuntu Wiki Licensing page]]</nowiki> to make sure you understand any requirements. Essentially in a nutshell unless otherwise stated it is released under the <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/|CC BY-SA 3.0]]</nowiki> license.

=== (Need) WestBengalTeam Logo ===

Please sumbit your logo art-work here.

=== (Need) Web Buttons, Links & Banners ===
