{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Welcome! ===
This is the wiki page of the WestBengal (India) Local Community Team.The WestBengal LoCo Team is a group of Ubuntu-Linux enthusiasts, volunteers and activists whose common goal is to share , advocate, promote Ubuntu within WestBengal, India. We focuses on the computer users from schools, business and home users to encourage using Ubuntu for building a strong and effective Ubuntu user community in WestBengal.We attend and plan events statewide, contact and work with LUGs (Linux Users Groups) and other local groups, and act as the public face of the Ubuntu community in WestBengal.

Please always check this wiki page for the latest news on Ubuntu Bangladesh Community. For other activities check out our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-in-wb|Launchpad Page]]</nowiki>.

=== How do I join? ===
There is no official process to join, however if you join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-in-wb|launchpad team]]</nowiki> you are then able to vote in polls organised by the group. In accordance with the Ubuntu philosophy, this team is open and available to all.Discussion happens on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-in-wb|mailing list]]</nowiki> which you are free to join. There is also an active group of members who chat in real time on <nowiki>[[UKTeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> in the #ubuntu-in-wb channel on irc.freenode.net.

=== Members ===
Ubuntu WestBengal LoCo Team Members on <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/WestbengalTeam/Members|Members]]</nowiki> page.

=== Projects ===
To get involved and see what is currently going on within the team check out our <nowiki>[[WestBengalTeam-Projects|projects page]]</nowiki> for details.

=== Communication ===
'''IRC:''' <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#ubuntu-in-wb|#ubuntu-in-wb]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net:6667   <<BR>>
'''Mailing List:''' <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-in-wb]]</nowiki>

=== Contact ===
'''Team Point of Contact:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/k_alam|Khurshid Alam]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~khurshid-alam|khurshid-alam]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
'''IRC:''' <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#k_alam|#k_alam]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net:6667
