{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu-IN-WB Projects ==

=== Overview ===

The WestBengal LoCo has a range of community driven projects we collaborate on to give back to the wider community and to promote growth and activity within the Loco. Projects range from collecting up locally relevant information like the WestBengal-Loco-Team logo, ongoing events to contribute to Ubuntu specifically such as bug jams and other events like local meetings to engage the group on a more personal level. 

The projects page is a great place to start for anyone wanting to help out with the LoCo but just don't know where to start. Each project should have a contact point (even if it is just the mailing list) so it is easy to get in contact with the relevant people if others are interested.

If you have a project that you would like to document here by all means add it to the list and link it to a sub page off this one (but please also advertise this on the <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-in-wb|mailing list]]</nowiki> otherwise people will not know when the page is updated). This will enable us to keep the page neat and tidy. If you have any questions or are wanting to add information but are unsure how to just either <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-in-wb|email the mailing list]]</nowiki> or come in and <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#ubuntu-in-wb|chat to us in the IRC channels]]</nowiki>.

=== Projects ===
 
==== BugJams (TO-DO) ====
* Whilst bug jams are common we thought it would be easier for people to get into this technical process if there were some local assistance. The <nowiki>[[WestBengalTeam-Projects-BugJams|bugjam]]</nowiki> project page has some links to relevant information for people wanting to look into this avenue of contribution. 
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~khurshid-alam|Khurshid Alam]]</nowiki>

==== Artwork ====
* A <nowiki>[[Artwork|central location]]</nowiki> for the team to collect team specific artwork.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-in-wb|the mailing list]]</nowiki>.

==== Translation (TO-DO) ====
* A place for information on how to <nowiki>[[Translation|translate Ubuntu programs into Bengali]]</nowiki> for people wanting to learn how to go about this.
** Contact - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~khurshid-alam|Khurshid Alam]]</nowiki>.

==== Engage Through Social Media ====
* A common official twitter-channel for everyone to share thoughts & promote Ubuntu. ('''TO-DO''')
* A google+ channel to do the same. ('''TO-DO''')
