{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

This is a template page to set up wireless driver pages under WifiDocs

== Driver Information ==
  ''Enter general driver information here''

** Driver Name:
** Module Name:

== Support Channels ==
  ''Enter general help that will work at anytime with the driver. See section below if it's release specific''

=== WEP info ===
  ''Enter anything related to getting WEP to work''

=== WPA info ===
  ''Enter anything related to getting WPA to work''

== Ubuntu Release Specific Info ==
  ''Under the correct section enter anything that is specific to the release only. See above general section if it is not release specific''

=== Hoary 5.04 ===

=== Breezy 5.10 ===

=== Dapper 6.06 ===

== Compile Newer Driver ==
  ''Section on compiling newer/latest driver''

=== Specific Release Notes ===
  ''Instructions should be generic and add any notes that are release specific in this section. Then create an anchor link where needed in instructions.

  Anchor example
  {{{
  <nowiki>[[Anchor(name)]]</nowiki> - This would be the anchor you are linking to

  [#name {any words describing go here}] this is how you would enter the link in the instructions to link to the anchor
  }}}

  Here is an example, if you click on <nowiki>[[#top|this link]]</nowiki> it will take you back to the top of page.
