{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



''This page should be merged into <nowiki>[[WifiDocs/Driver/RalinkRT2500]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[WifiDocs/Driver/RalinkRT2570]]</nowiki>''

== Driver Information ==
  ''See http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Rt2x00drivers''

** Driver Name:
** Module Name:

== WWW Reference ==
  ''Enter links to other references on driver here''

** Home Page:http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Rt2x00drivers
** Secondary Help:http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474534

== General Help ==
  ''This driver works at least on Breezy and Dapper without using NdisWrapper.  Be sure to have development tools and kernel headers installed before following the install instructions on the link above.

E.g. use Synaptic Package Manager to install build-essential and linux-headers-2.6.15-22-386 (or whichever is appropriate for your system)''

=== WEP help ===
  ''Enter anything related to getting wep to work''

=== WPA help ===
  ''If you what to rt2500 wifi device run with WPA all settings must be set in /etc/network/interfice and add thees lines: 

auto ra0
iface ra0 inet dhcp
pre-up iwconfig ra0 essid YOUR-SSID
pre-up iwconfig ra0 mode managed
pre-up iwpriv ra0 set Channel=7
pre-up iwpriv ra0 set AuthMode=WPAPSK
pre-up iwpriv ra0 set EncrypType=TKIP
pre-up iwpriv ra0 set WPAPSK="YOUR-WPA-PSK"
pre-up iwpriv ra0 set TxRate=0

Just change settings to your wireless settings and restart computer!
''

== Ubuntu Release Specific Info ==
  ''Under the correct section enter anything that is specifc to the release only. See above general section if it is not release specific''

=== Hoary 5.04 ===

=== Breezy 5.10 ===

=== Dapper 6.04 ===

== Compile Newer Driver ==
  ''Section on compiling newer/latest driver''

=== Specific Release Notes ===
  ''Instructions should be generic and add any notes that are release specific in this section. Then create an anchor link where needed in instructions.

  Anchor example
  {{{
  <nowiki>[[Anchor(name)]]</nowiki> - This would be the anchor you are linking to

  [#name {any words describing go here}] this is how you would enter the link in the instructions to link to the anchor
  }}}

  Here is an example, if you click on <nowiki>[[#top|this link]]</nowiki> it will take you back to the top of page.
