{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Status ===

* Created: 14-07-2005 by HenrikOmma
* People: HenrikOmma
* Contributors: JamesTroup, MauricioHernandez, MatthewEast
* Interested: 
* Status: Planning

=== Introduction ===

We currently have 3 Moin wikis, http://wiki.ubuntu.com/, http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/ and http://www.edubuntu.org/, but have decided to merge these into one large wiki at wiki.ubuntu.com. 

=== Rationale ===

Maintaining separate wikis leads to confusion, fragmentation and duplication of information.

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

All participants in the Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu projects will be encouraged to contribute information to the common pool for the common good.

=== Implementation Plan ===

We want to get the complete page structures across with attachments and editing history. This should be easy in moin, as each page lives in a separate directory containing all this stuff. We just have to copy the content of the 'pages' directory from the two smaller wikis into that of the larger one. However, we also want the existing URLs to forward/redirect to the combined wiki so that links currently in circulation will remain valid.

The steps would look something like this:

1. Dry run merge - I've already done this once on my home box with an old data set. It seems trivial enough. I'll need to do it again with a fresh set of pages from each wiki though, to check for page conflicts. At this stage I should also check that none of the attachments have funny linking issues.

2. Set up new URLs - www.edubuntu.org is currently a moin wiki, but we will create or two static pages to act as the actual home page of Edubuntu then the rest can go in the wiki (front pages being similar to those currently on www.kubuntu.org). It would then make sense to have the static pages at www.edubuntu.com and have the wiki (forwarding) on wiki.edubuntu.com, so we get a consistent system with www.u.c and wiki.u.c. In the same vain, we should set up wiki.kubuntu.com as a forward.

3. Freeze the pages for editing - Announce this widely a day or so ahead of time so that no one gets stuck in mid-edit. Certainly the wikis being merged in need to be locked so people don't make edits that don't end up being transferred. This can be done with a global ACL entry.

4. Actually copy the pages - Simply copy the original main wiki content to 'pages-temp', copy in the new content and swap the directory names. This should only take 5-10 minutes. Page name conflicts should already have been sorted out in step #1.

5. Point the new URLs - When the combined wiki is seen to work well at wiki.u.c, we should set up forwards for the above mentioned URLs to that site.

==== Packages Affected ====

None. Some changes to Moin will be required for advanced features, which will be described in a separate spec.

==== User Interface Requirements ====
N/A

=== Outstanding Issues ===

Consider: Adding category classification to the pages from the wikis being merged in. That would make it easier to find these pages later. Edubuntu pages would obviously get the <code>CategoryEdubuntu</code> tag, while UDU pages might get <code>CategoryBreezy</code>, <code>CategoryDevelopment</code>, <code>CategorySpec</code> or <code>CategoryHomepage</code> (for the people-pages).

CategorySpec
