{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The following are bugs relating to the Main Ubuntu Wiki (as implemented in Moin). Also see the <nowiki>[[http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/MoinMoinBugs|Moin bugs page]]</nowiki>.

-------
 1. On https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Zope3onUbuntu?action=fullsearch&context=180&value=zope3&titlesearch=Titles clicking the LearningZope3/WhatIsNewInZope33 link results in <pre>
AttributeError'NoneType' object has no attribute 'read'
Python Python 2.4.3: /usr/bin/python
Linux titanium 2.6.15.7 #1 SMP Thu Sep 7 19:39:24 UTC 2006 x86_64
MoinMoin Release 1.3.4 [Revision 1.3.4 release]
Wed Jan 31 23:06:55 2007
A problem occurred in a Python script. Here is the sequence of function calls leading up to the error, in the order they occurred.
</pre> followed by a trace.

# Narrow-down the search to one language. For example, search for 'recent changes' results  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/?action=fullsearch&context=180&value=recent+changes&fullsearch=Text|this page]]</nowiki> (Bhuvan)
# The main navigation tabs are broken in Opera (and some reports of them being slightly broken in Firefox)
# The login dialogues contain inconsistencies between the custom Ubuntu section and the default Moin section, and also should contain a direct link to the launchpad site (MatthewEast)
# The Password Repeat field is missing from the UserPreferences page. --AnttiKaihola
# It is difficult to find this page or other means to report bugs in this system. --AnttiKaihola
# The wiki has become very slow, almost borderline unusable, with large changes to pages taking minutes to submit. We should evaluate some options to increase performance. --KevinKubasik
# Searching in the polish locale yeilds a page that displays HTML code fragment as text:
    example, searching for 'dapper': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/wiki/BugReports?action=fullsearch&context=180&value=dapper&titlesearch=Tytu%C5%82y

 generates a page that contains following HTML code:

<pre>
<p>3 rezultatów z liczby 5158 stron. (&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li style="list-style-type:none"&gt;0.36 sekund. &lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;)</p>
</pre>
 1. When I subscribe to a wiki page I get a message that I've just resigned from subscription (in polish: Rezygnacja z subskrybcji została przyjęta. Aby zrezygnować z subskrybcji, wejdź do swojego profilu i usuń stronę z listy subskrybcji.) - I think it's a translation bug. --AzraelNightwalker

=== Resolved ===

# The main text editing area should have higher contrast -- ''Improved contrast in theme''
# The title texts should be brown, hovering to black (reverse it from current functioning)
# The UserName link (under the search field) is too faint in that gray. It should probably be dark brown.
# The footer needs to be simplified and generally fixed 
# Recent changes icons, like 'new', 'deleted', etc. should all be the same size. That would make the page Recent Changes load better. 
