{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Please place feature requests for the Ubuntu Wiki on this page. Use the <nowiki>[[talk]]</nowiki> sub-page to discuss these features. Also see the <nowiki>[[http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/FeatureRequests|FeaturesRequest page]]</nowiki> in the Moin project wiki.

--------

# RSS feeds
# Include RSS feed url in RecentChanges page, so users can know the URL and subscribe to it
# Pressing the Enter key after typing your password should log you in.
# Login should leave you at the page you were on
# A "Remove Highlighting" link.
# Hotkeys for editing
# Turn page trails off by default -- ''they clutter the layout and are not that useful.''
# A direct link to the talk-subpages in the interface -- ''Talk pages are a handy feature, so it would be nice to link to the talk page of a given page directly from the interface. It would encourage people to start using them.''
# The ability to restrict searches and Recent Changes to a category or a wiki sub-page area.
# Merge the 'Show Changes' and 'Get Info' buttons into one 'History' button (link actually). -- 'Get Info' basically gets renamed to 'History'
# The Page Rename dialogue should warn that it will break links, links are not automatically updates (unlike the previous wiki)
# Page deletion to be deactivated by normal users?
# Reducing the default length of the recent changes list to 2 days to make it load faster on slow connections. (MatthewEast)
# A search function that works (RobertStoffers)
# An index of wiki pages broken up into categories that is easily accessable to new users, maybe under the Support Tab->Documentation. Also better, more obvious links to any other documentation on this page too. (RobertStoffers)
# An easy way to sign an edit, similar to the tilde markup in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_to_edit_a_page|MediaWiki]]</nowiki> (~~~ = user name, ~~~~ = user name plus date)
# Keep the same theme for wiki.ubuntu.com and ubuntu.com
# Remove the "Planet" button from the top bar. Already it has one in ubuntu.com/community
# Add a Kurdish translation of the wiki software. It is found in Rosetta. (ErdalRonahi)
