{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Status ===

* Created: 10-07-2005 by HenrikOmma
* Priority:
* People: HenrikOmma
* Contributors: JamesTroup, MauricioHernandez, MatthewEast
* Interested:
* Status: Planning

=== Introduction ===

An overview of some enhancements we might make to the MoinMoin wiki.

=== Rationale ===

We now use the Moin wiki as a key tool in our development and and documentation process. A few strategic enhancements

=== Scope and Use Cases ===

The following is a simply list of possible  enhancements with a brief description.

 1. Filtered Recent changes: As the wiki grows with more pages from a range of categories, it would be useful if we could view the recent changes list filtered out by categories such as 'development', hardware, 'documentation', 'kubuntu', 'MOTU' or a combination of these depending on the interests of the reader.
** Implementation:

 1. Filtered search: similar to Filtered Recent changes, but with search results.

 1. Slight theme change based on category. Change something about the way the page looks to suggest which category it belongs to, perhaps the colour of the page title. Development in red, documentation in green, kubuntu in blue
** I would think this would be easy, just association pariticular categories with a .css?

 1. Different look for different URLs - When you view the same wiki from wiki.edubuntu.org or wiki.kubuntu.org it should have a different theme, even though the content all lives in one big wiki.
** Isn't this possible with by using MoinMoin's wikifarm capabilities?  I haven't read much about it though.  -- RyanK
** This is not only possible, it is implemented :) (<nowiki>[[mdke]]</nowiki>
*** Do you know how it was implemented?  Wikifarms?  I was thinking about doing something similar for a project?

=== Implementation Plan ===

Detailed descriptions of the new features should be written up as feature requests on the MoinMoin website. Any development should be done in collaboration with the MoinMoin team so that the improvements will enter into the upstream.

==== Data Preservation and Migration ====

N/A

==== Packages Affected ====

Moin

=== Outstanding Issues ===

Decide on course of action
