{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Fully committed to improve local communities in various areas.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~manga-willy
|-
| IRC
| ongolaBoy
|-
| Twitter
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/ongolaboy | @ongolaboy]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| 
|-
| Website
| http://ongola.blogspot.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

* organisation of release parties in Cameroon <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-CameroonianTeam-Events-JauntyReleaseParty | since 2008]]</nowiki> with some friends
* redaction of the journal <nowiki>[[CameroonianTeam-Projects-Journal|Aventure Libre]]</nowiki>
* Help in organising cameroonian pages on wiki.ubuntu.com : <nowiki>[[CameroonianTeam]]</nowiki>
* animation and moderation of the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cm/ | ubuntu-cm mailing-list]]</nowiki>
* maintainer of an <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-+mirror-miroir.cm.auf.org-archive | unofficial mirror ]]</nowiki>
* various help in my daily work : installation, advices

=== Future Goals ===

* help the cameroonian local team to become an approved team
* help other cameroonian guys to become ubuntu member
* organize more official meetings where we'll showcase how ubuntu can help people,organisations in their daily life
* improve my skills in packaging

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

<nowiki>[[YoBoY]]</nowiki> - I met ongolaBoy some time ago in Paris. He's really motivated to make things appen in his country. He's participating actively in the life of his locoteam and is still in contact with the French Team to have advices sometimes.

<nowiki>[[Kilos]]</nowiki> I have got to know ongolaBoy in my Quest to find and revive LoCos' in Africa and have found him friendly and helpful. Also he is keeping the Cameroon team going and has been for many years. He is also now a member of Ubuntu Africa and helps where he can. I would gladly endorse his membership application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:msdomdonner]]</nowiki> 