{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Will Skora ===

Hi, everybody. 

I hang out in the #ubuntu-doc once in a while.

There's a lot of people who try out linux and get frustrated because they ran into a problem and can't find the answer. So, they dismiss Tux and never realize what could have been [if they stayed around !] 
Though I was about to give up on linux [and mandrake], I stuck with it, thanks to the people at justlinux, barry, and my own determination. 
So, when people seem to be at wit's end, I like to help them and guide them to the information that's out there.

== The iBook era == 
Yes, in the summer of 2005, I broke down my allegiance with Tux [not completely] and bought an Apple iBook. I like it, honestly. The underlying unix architecture still allows me to play with the command line, though has the GUI polish that GNOME and KDE are oh so striving for :D 
I wasn't sure if Linux could completely suit me for college, plus my past experiences with it have made the computer inoperable for days at a time, made me hesitant to go 100% linux. 
Don't worry, I'll attempt to put the PPC version of ubuntu on there eventually, so it's all good.

Location: /usa/ohio/cleveland or /usa/michigan/kalamazoo

...
----
CategoryHomepage
