{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

Hi, I'm Will. I am 24. I live in upstate New York currently. 

A little about me, I am an EMT for a living, I enjoy that very much and it gives me a sense of purpose as I am helping people. 

I have been dabbling with computers since I was about 6 years old. I started playing with an old zenith that ran DOS I believe. I then moved on to a computer that ran windows for a long time, and didn't really know that there was any other type of OS besides the MAC OS.

In 2005 I was working at a tech support company when one of my co-workers told me about trying out the operating system called Linux. I didn't know much about it but was willing to give it a try. I liked that it was free and was something new. I installed it with a lot of frustration back then, as they didn't have the graphical installer. Long story short I am back to the Ubuntu, the OS that got me going in the beginning and the one that I have enjoyed the most over the years.

== Experience with Linux ==
I have experience with a lot of different distros. I started off with Ubuntu in 2005, and use that for a  while during that time I helped with bug control. I stopped using Ubuntu for a little while when I wanted heard about he .rpm distributions. It was recommended to me that I give fedora a try, so I did.

I used fedora for about 2-3 years. I really like Fedora. There are a lot of great things about it and it has an amazing community. That is when I got into documentation. I have worked on two or three releases of documentation. I have learned how to use Docbook while helping them too.

I have played with a lot of different distributions in between there. I have used Slackware to try and get a better handle on compiling, didn't really work too well. I have used backtrack at work to help my former employer work on network security. I tried PCLinuxOS found out that I didn't like KDE as much. 

== The Ubuntu Community ==

I am not involved with that much yet as I am just getting back into Ubuntu and helping the community. I hope to help with the Beginners Team, and maybe the Documentation Team too.

=== IRC ===

== Testimonials ==
Please Note: If you would like to describe any of my contributions to the Ubuntu Community, please feel free to do so. Thank You.
