{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuKylinChinese | 中文]]</nowiki>

== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since <nowiki>[[UbuntuKylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> 13.04. Now, we are working on 15.10.

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 ==

We are glad to announce the Release of Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 (codename Wily Werewolf). In this release, we have fixed many internationalization and localization bugs in Ubuntu itself and bugs in software written by the Ubuntu Kylin team. All the work that Ubuntu Kylin team do is within the Ubuntu community and ecosystem and as such they are flowed back to Ubuntu itself naturally and everyone using Ubuntu can benefit the result of our work.

=== Changes since 15.04 ===

This release is based on 4.2 linux kernel with the support of Intel Broxton. These applications have been updated to their latest versions: Firefox 41, Chromium 45 and LibreOffice 5.0.2. 

We have also released <nowiki>[[http://pinyin.sogou.com/linux/ | Sogou Pinyin]]</nowiki> 2.0.0.0066 on Oct 16. It is not included in the image by default, but you can install it easily from the Ubuntu Kylin Software Center.

Besides a plethora of bugs fixed in this milestone, several Ubuntu Kylin specific packages have also been updated:

* ubuntukylin-theme updated to 1.4.0
** change the unity-greeter's logo for Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 (LP: #1466781)
** change the Plymouth text for Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 (LP: #1466784)

* ubuntukylin-default-settings updated to 1.3.10
** Details overview's logo needs to be updated for Ubuntu Kylin 15.04.(LP: #1467839)
** The name of the expanded files for zip file display of garbage characters (LP: #1462848:)

* ubuntu-kylin-software-center, updated to 1.3.6
** Add the installation, upgrade, uninstall software progress bar display.
** Optimize the list, add the mouse hover effect.
** Optimize the state of the progress bar, bugs when dealing with broken network download and install.
** Optimize the blurbs, add a layer of the gradient background,solve the problem of dislocation window after expanding ads.
** Fixed bug #1476911 #1476983 #1368189 #1373931 #1385082 #1418364 #1420653 #1368170 #1374309 #1375578 #1326696 #1375587 #1379196 etc
** task show in wrong logic when task exe failed but letter success in the next same task (LP: #1483978)
** The btn which can't be alicked should not be show in MultiFunctionBtn on appdetailpage (LP: #1484854)

* youker-assistant, updated to 2.0.3
** Deal with situation when the scanning garbage is empty.
** Display hardware manufacturer logo.
** Add Gio.Settings notify for Unity and Mate settings.
** Make interface switching more smoothly.
** Adjust the layout of interface.
** Beautify skin center, menu, info module and setting module.
** Rewrite skin center, aboutdialog and animation.
** Add upgrade function.
** Delete debug logs and command history.
** Rewrite camera module and replace pygame with opencv.
** Make dash blur experimental normal(LP: #1430118).
** Modify custom skin filter(LP: #1475074).

* indicator-china-weather, updated to 2.1.3
** Repair the real-time temperature and humidity.
** Optimize the forecast interface.
** Modified Database.
** Rewrite UI with css.

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Wechat: UK201304
* E-mail: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The 15.10 ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/wily/release/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

Below is the list of prominent bugs that are existing in 15.10:
* The CandidateView of Chinese input method obscured by the Dash page (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465512|1465512]]</nowiki>)
* The The Chinese input method cannot be enabled in the installed system (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465535|1465535]]</nowiki>)
* "Desktop" is not localized in live mode (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1306866|1306866]]</nowiki>)

For issues related to Ubuntu itself, please refer to the Ubuntu project at Launchpad.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
