{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Lubuntu 15.10, Wily Werewolf, for distribution in October 2015. With this second beta you can see what the next version will contain. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is a beta pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Lubuntu developers

== Getting Lubuntu 15.10 Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/15.10/beta-2/ | Beta 2 images]]</nowiki>.

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO How to]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found alongside the images.

== Beta 2 Highlights ==

* LXQt is still in development, so Wily Werewolf is another bug fix release using LXDE.
* The problematical iBus has now been replaced with <nowiki>[[https://fcitx-im.org/wiki/Fcitx | Fcitx]]</nowiki>. With that change the fonts for Chinese, Japanese and Korean have been added back into the build.
=== Software Updates ===

* lubuntu-extra-sessions In the past, selecting different sessions (netbook, gaming etc.) was installed by default. This is now an optional extra that can be installed by those who want this added functionality. It is currently not available on the LiveCD versions.

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Beta 2 Wily Werewolf snapshot includes the v4.2 kernel which 15.10 will ship with.

== Known Problems ==

* The Unetbootin versions in the Ubuntu repos are old (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unetbootin/+bug/1497604|1497604]]</nowiki>)
* systemd crashes when delteing a partition in gparted in live session. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1499171|1499171]]</nowiki>)
* additional drivers GUI or command line does not offer bcmwl-kernel source for my pcie broadcom wifi.(<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/+bug/1498720|1498720]]</nowiki> Workaround exists)
* In installer selecting something else does not show used space on xfs partitions.(<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1480711|1480711]]</nowiki>)
* File restore from wastebin not working (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1495943 | 1497175]]</nowiki>)

=== Graphics and Display ===

* lightdm has black greeter background for Lubuntu (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm-gtk-greeter/+bug/1466191|1466191]]</nowiki>)

=== LXDE ===

* lxpanel volume applet settings opens empty terminal window (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1434774|1434774]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists)
* lxpanel-indicator-applet-plugin doesn't use any theme and looks ugly, but still fully functional (bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1468854|1468854]]</nowiki>)
* run dialog called from one desktop opens on the desktop with preferences dialog, regardless of which desktop is current (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1445818|1445818]]</nowiki>)
* lxappearance does not launch in kvm vm with vmvga graphics (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxappearance/+bug/1464899|1464899]]</nowiki>)
* lxappearance segmentation fault (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxappearance/+bug/1499037|1499037]]</nowiki>)
* lubuntu-software-center only lists installed applications from alternate install (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-software-center/+bug/1467517|1467517]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists)
* Intermittent bug with additional applets appearing (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1488660 | 1488660]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists)
=== Applications ===

* Software properties gtk implies my cpu is unknown and not working. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/+bug/1444682|1444682]]</nowiki>)
* gnome-disk-utilty does not allow swapoff of zram devices (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/1458383|1458383]]</nowiki>)
* run dialog called from one desktop opens on the desktop with preferences dialog, regardless of which desktop is current (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1445818|1445818]]</nowiki>)
* language selector text cut off in abiword (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abiword/+bug/1484785|1484785]]</nowiki>)
* zenity's option to render html does not work (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zenity/+bug/1478386|1478386]]</nowiki>)
 

=== Lubuntu Desktop Installer ===

Images are oversized for CD, please use the Alternate Installer else a DVD / USB as a workaround. 

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 15.10, the Wily Werewolf is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
