{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Release Notes Beta 1 Wily Werewolf ====

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 1 Release. 
Xubuntu '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Xubuntu Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs

==== New features, applications and packages ====
* LibreOffice Calc and Writer and now included. These applications replace Gnumeric and Abiword respectively.
* A new theme for LibreOffice, libreoffice-style-elementary is also included and is default for Wily Werewolf.

==== Important bug fixes and enhancements ====
(Bug:1447038) 15.04: Shutdown/Restart of live session guest does not work in Virtualbox or VMWare

==== New Major application versions ====

* catfish 1.3.0
* gmusicbrowser 1.1.14
* lightdm-gtk-greeter 2.0.1
* lightdm-gtk-greeter-settings 1.2.0
* menulibre 2.1.0
* pavucontrol 3.0
* thunar 1.6.10
* xfburn 0.5.4
* xfce4-cpufreq-plugin 1.1.2
* xfce4-dict 0.7.1
* xfce4-eyes-plugin 4.4.4
* xfce4-notes-plugin 1.8.1
* xfce4-power-manager 1.4.4
* xfce4-sensors-plugin 1.2.6
* xfce4-smartbookmark-plugin 0.4.6
* xfce4-time-out-plugin 1.0.2
* xfce4-verve-plugin 1.0.1
* xfce4-wavelan-plugin 0.5.12
* xfce4-weather-plugin 0.8.6
* xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin 1.5.0
* xfdesktop4 4.12.2
* xfwm4 4.12.3

==== Known issues ====

===== Installer Issues =====
Some issues have come up during testing installs.

(Bug:1361951) Ubiquity freezes during partition creation. Work around this by creating partition prior to starting install.

(Bug:1462688) ubi-timezone failed exit code 1 error

(Bug:1488814) failed to boot from USB disk with error:Boot error. During tests the gnome-disks tool was found to be the most reliable USB creation method.

(Bug:1341944) 32-Bit UEFI bootloader support needed

===== Xubuntu Specific Issues =====

(Bug:1437180) Desktop Icons show on the install only desktop

(Bug:1332931) "Display configure screen settings and layout" window opens automatically every few seconds

(Bug:1388922) xdg-open doesn't properly detect Xfce/Xubuntu

(Bug:1395720) authentication in livesession accepts any value as password

(Bug:1414443) Camera doesn't initialise

(Bug:1462445) Parole starts with blank screen
