{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

"I do not think there is any thrill that can go through the human
heart like that felt by the inventor as he sees some creation of
the brain unfolding to success... such emotions make a man forget
food, sleep, friends, love, everything."
   - Nikola Tesla

The second alpha of the Wily Werewolf (to become 15.10) has now been released!

This alpha features images for Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu MATE,
Ubuntu Kylin and the Ubuntu Cloud images.

Pre-releases of the Wily Werewolf are *not* encouraged for anyone
needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running
into occasional, even frequent breakage.  They are, however,
recommended for Ubuntu flavor developers and those who want to
help in testing, reporting and fixing bugs as we work towards getting
this release ready.

Alpha 2 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing. This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect some
bugs.

While these Alpha 2 images have been tested and work, except as noted in
the release notes, Ubuntu developers are continuing to improve the
Wily Werewolf.  In particular, once newer daily images are available, system
installation bugs identified in the Alpha 2 installer should be verified
against the current daily image before being reported in Launchpad.
Using an obsolete image to re-report bugs that have already been fixed
wastes your time and the time of developers who are busy trying to make
15.10 the best Ubuntu release yet.  Always ensure your system is up to
date before reporting bugs.

Kubuntu:
  Kubuntu uses KDE software and now features the new Plasma 5 desktop.

  The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/wily/alpha-2/

  More information on Kubuntu Alpha-2 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Alpha2/Kubuntu

Lubuntu:
  Lubuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu based on LXDE and focused on providing a
  very lightweight distribution.

  The Alpha 2 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/wily/alpha-2/

  More information on Lubuntu Alpha-2 can be found here:
 
*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Alpha2/Lubuntu

Ubuntu MATE:
  Ubuntu MATE is a flavour of Ubuntu featuring the MATE desktop
  environment for people who just want to get stuff done.

  The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/releases/wily/alpha-2/

  More information on Ubuntu MATE Alpha-2 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Alpha2/UbuntuMATE

Ubuntu Kylin:
  Ubuntu Kylin is a flavour of Ubuntu that is more suitable for
  Chinese users.

  The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded from:
  
*** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/wily/alpha-2/

  More information on Ubuntu Kylin Alpha-2 can be found here:

*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Alpha2/UbuntuKylin

Ubuntu Cloud:
  Ubuntu Cloud images can be run on Amazon EC2, Openstack, SmartOS and
  many other clouds.

  The Alpha-2 images can be downloaded from:

*** http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/wily/alpha-2/

Regular daily images for Ubuntu can be found at:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
Wily, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce list.
This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a week) carrying announcements
of approved specifications, policy changes, alpha releases and other
interesting events.

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to
pull together this Alpha release!

On behalf of Ubuntu Release Team, Martin Wimpress.
