{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== Release Notes Beta 2 Wily Werewolf ====

'''NOTE:''' 

This is a Beta 2 Release. 
Xubuntu '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Xubuntu Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs

==== New features, applications and packages ====

* Xfce4 Panel Switch for backup/restore of panels. Included are 5 preset panel layouts.
* Greybird accessibility icons for window manager.

==== Important bug fixes and enhancements ====
(Bug:1447038) 15.04: Shutdown/Restart of live session guest does not work in Virtualbox or VMWare

(Bug:1414443) Camera doesn't initialise

(Bug:1462445) Parole starts with blank screen

(Bug:1437180) Desktop Icons show on the install only desktop

(Bug:1388922) xdg-open doesn't properly detect Xfce/Xubuntu

(Bug:1395720) authentication in livesession accepts any value as password

==== New Major application versions ====

* catfish 1.3.2

* menulibre 2.1.1

* xfpanel-switch 1.0.2

* xfdesktop4 4.12.3

==== Known issues ====

===== Installer Issues =====
Some issues have come up during testing installs.

(Bug:1462688) ubi-timezone failed exit code 1 error

(Bug:1488814) failed to boot from USB disk with error:Boot error. (During tests the gnome-disks tool was found to be the most reliable USB creation method.)

(Bug:1341944) 32-Bit UEFI bootloader support needed

Upgrading via update-manager (upgrades via livecd seemingly unaffected) 

(Bug:1481798) modemmanager post-installation script returned error exit status 100

===== General Issues =====

(Bug:1497175) File restore from wastebin not working

(Bug:1497170) New file creation - not opening with file editor

===== Xubuntu Specific Issues =====

(Bug:1401609) gmusicbrowser crashes on close

To see a list of known bugs in the common infrastructure, refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes#Known_issues|Ubuntu release notes. ]]</nowiki>
