{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since <nowiki>[[UbuntuKylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> 13.04. Now, we are working on 15.10.

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 Alpha 2 ==

/!\ '''Note:''' ''this is an alpha pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and fixing bugs.''

We are glad to announce the Release of Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 (codename Wily Werewolf) Alpha 2. In this pre-release, we have fixed many internationalization and localization bugs in Ubuntu itself and bugs in software written by the Ubuntu Kylin team. All the work that Ubuntu Kylin team do is within the Ubuntu community and ecosystem and as such they are flowed back to Ubuntu itself naturally and everyone using Ubuntu can benefit the result of our work.

=== Changes since 15.04 ===

Besides a plethora of bugs fixed in this milestone, several Ubuntu Kylin specific packages have also been updated:

* ubuntukylin-theme updated to 1.4.0
** change the unity-greeter's logo for Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 (LP: #1466781)
** change the Plymouth text for Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 (LP: #1466784)

* ubuntukylin-default-settings updated to 1.3.9
** Details overview's logo needs to be updated for Ubuntu Kylin 15.04.(LP: #1467839)

* ubuntu-kylin-software-center, updated to 1.3.5
** Add the installation, upgrade, uninstall software progress bar display.
** Optimize the list, add the mouse hover effect.
** Optimize the state of the progress bar, bugs when dealing with broken network download and install.
** Optimize the blurbs, add a layer of the gradient background,solve the problem of dislocation window after expanding ads.
** Fixed bug #1476911 #1476983 #1368189 #1373931 #1385082 #1418364 #1420653 #1368170 #1374309 #1375578 #1326696 #1375587 #1379196 etc

* youker-assistant, updated to 2.0.3
** Deal with situation when the scanning garbage is empty.
** Display hardware manufacturer logo.
** Add Gio.Settings notify for Unity and Mate settings.
** Make interface switching more smoothly.
** Adjust the layout of interface.
** Beautify skin center, menu, info module and setting module.
** Rewrite skin center, aboutdialog and animation.
** Add upgrade function.
** Delete debug logs and command history.
** Rewrite camera module and replace pygame with opencv.
** Make dash blur experimental normal(LP: #1430118).
** Modify custom skin filter(LP: #1475074).

* indicator-china-weather, updated to 2.1.3
** Repair the real-time temperature and humidity.
** Optimize the forecast interface.
** Modified Database.
** Rewrite UI with css.

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Wechat: UK201304
* E-mail: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Alpha 2 ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/wily/alpha-2/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

Below is the list of prominent bugs that are existing in Alpha 2:
* when I input something in Dash, Dash panel forced termination.(bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1403744|1403744]]</nowiki>)
* The name of the expanded files for zip file display of garbage characters (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1462848|1462848]]</nowiki>)
* The CandidateView of Chinese input method obscured by the Dash page (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465512|1465512]]</nowiki>)
* Can't select the menu items of the right-click in Launcher and shutdown dialog by using the mouse (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465521|1465521]]</nowiki>)
* The description of the installed system is almost entirely in English (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465530|1465530]]</nowiki>)
* The The Chinese input method cannot be enabled in the installed system (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465535|1465535]]</nowiki>)
* The terminal cannot be enabled in the installed system (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465537|1465537]]</nowiki>)
* "Desktop" is not localized in live mode (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1306866|1306866]]</nowiki>)
* failed to boot from USB disk with error: gfxboot.c32: not a COM32R Image boot: (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bug/1325801|1325801]]</nowiki>)
* Redirect release notes requests to Ubuntu Kylin's relevant pages (bug #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1330414|1330414]]</nowiki>)

Other outstanding issues that are planned to be fixed in the Wily cycle can be found 
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+milestone/wily-beta1 | here]]</nowiki>.

For issues related to Ubuntu itself, please refer to the Ubuntu project at Launchpad.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
