{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

"I am Groot."
  - Groot

The first beta of the Wily Werewolf (to become 15.10) has now been
released!

This beta features images for Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME,
Ubuntu Kylin, Ubuntu MATE, Xubuntu and the Ubuntu Cloud images.

Pre-releases of the Wily Werewolf are *not* encouraged for anyone
needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running
into occasional, even frequent breakage. They are, however,
recommended for Ubuntu flavor developers and those who want to
help in testing, reporting and fixing bugs as we work towards getting
this release ready.

Beta 1 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing. This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect some
bugs.

While these Beta 1 images have been tested and work, except as noted in
the release notes, Ubuntu developers are continuing to improve the
Wily Werewolf. In particular, once newer daily images are available,
system installation bugs identified in the Beta 1 installer should be
verified against the current daily image before being reported in
Launchpad. Using an obsolete image to re-report bugs that have already
been fixed wastes your time and the time of developers who are busy trying
to make 15.10 the best Ubuntu release yet. Always ensure your system is
up to date before reporting bugs.

Kubuntu:
 Kubuntu uses KDE software and now features the new Plasma 5 desktop.

 The Kubuntu 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/wily/beta-1/

 More information about Kubuntu 15.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta1/Kubuntu

Lubuntu:
 Lubuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu based on LXDE and focused on providing
 a very lightweight distribution.

 The Lubuntu 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/wily/beta-1/

 More information about Lubuntu 15.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta1/Lubuntu

Ubuntu GNOME:
 Ubuntu GNOME is a flavour of Ubuntu featuring the GNOME3 desktop
 environment.

 The Ubuntu GNOME 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/wily/beta-1/

 More information about Ubuntu GNOME 15.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta1/UbuntuGNOME

Ubuntu Kylin:
 Ubuntu Kylin is a flavour of Ubuntu that is more suitable for
 Chinese users.

 The Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/wily/beta-1/

 More information about Ubuntu Kylin 15.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta1/UbuntuKylin

Ubuntu MATE:
 Ubuntu MATE is a flavour of Ubuntu featuring the MATE desktop
 environment for people who just want to get stuff done.

 The Ubuntu MATE 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/releases/wily/beta-1/

 More information about Ubuntu MATE 15.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta1/UbuntuMATE

Xubuntu:
 Xubuntu is a flavour of Ubuntu shipping with the XFCE desktop
 environment.

 The Xubuntu 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/wily/beta-1/

 More information about Xubuntu MATE 15.10 Beta 1 can be found here:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta1/Xbuntu

Ubuntu Cloud:
 Ubuntu Cloud images can be run on Amazon EC2, Openstack, SmartOS
 and many other clouds.

 The Ubuntu Cloud 15.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:

** http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/wily/beta-1/

Regular daily images for Ubuntu can be found at:

* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
Wily, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce list.
This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a week) carrying announcements
of approved specifications, policy changes, beta releases and other
interesting events.

* http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to
pull together this Beta release!

On behalf of Ubuntu Release Team, Martin Wimpress.
