{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Lubuntu 15.10, Wily Werewolf, for distribution in October 2015. With this early Alpha pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Lubuntu developers

== Getting Lubuntu 15.10 Alpha 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/wily/alpha-1/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/wily/alpha-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Alpha 1 Highlights ==

* LXQt is still in development, so Wily Werewolf is another bug fix release.

=== Software Updates ===

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Alpha 1 Wily Unicorn snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.19.0-22.22|3.19.0-22.22 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.19.tar.gz|v3.19 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. Please note, however, that <nowiki>[[http://linux.softpedia.com/blog/Linux-Kernel-4-0-to-Land-in-Ubuntu-15-10-Wily-Werewolf-in-the-Next-Few-Weeks-483141.shtml|version 4.0 will be released with 15.10]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

=== Graphics and Display ===

* audacious, ubiquity and other gtk3 apps have gray bars hiding some widgets (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1464349|1464349]]</nowiki> Fix Committed)
* lightdm has black greeter background for Lubuntu (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm-gtk-greeter/+bug/1466191|1466191]]</nowiki>)

=== LXDE ===

* lxpanel volume applet settings opens empty terminal window (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1434774|1434774]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists)
* lxpanel-indicator-applet-plugin doesn't use any theme and looks ugly, but still fully functional (bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1468854|1468854]]</nowiki>)
* run dialog called from one desktop opens on the desktop with preferences dialog, regardless of which desktop is current (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1445818|1445818]]</nowiki>)
* lxappearance does not launch in kvm vm with vmvga graphics (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxappearance/+bug/1464899|1464899]]</nowiki>)
* lxappearance segmentation fault (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxappearance/+bug/1468529|1468529]]</nowiki>)
* LSC can only 'see' installed applications (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-software-center/+bug/1467517|1467517]]</nowiki>)

=== Applications ===

* Software properties gtk implies my cpu is unknown and not working. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/+bug/1444682|1444682]]</nowiki>)
* ibus ui links to dead http://code.google.com/p/ibus when homepage is https://github.com/ibus/ibus/releases (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ibus/+bug/1454894|1454894]]</nowiki>)
* gnome-disk-utilty does not allow swapoff of zram devices (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/1458383|1458383]]</nowiki>)

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 15.10, the Wily Werewolf is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
