{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

Ubuntu MATE is an official flavour of Ubuntu, featuring the MATE desktop environment for people who just want to get stuff done. This version is base on '''MATE 1.10'''.

== Ubuntu MATE 15.10 Press Kit ==

The Ubuntu MATE 15.10 Press Kit is available now and provides an overview of all the new features and changes that were introduced during the Ubuntu MATE 15.10 development cycle.

** https://ubuntu-mate.org/ubuntu-mate-1510-presskit/

== Ubuntu MATE 15.10 Release Notes ==

When Ubuntu MATE 15.10 is released you'll be able to access the release notes from:

** https://ubuntu-mate.org/blog/ubuntu-mate-wily-final-release/

== Getting Ubuntu MATE 15.10 ==

When Ubuntu MATE 15.10 is released you'll be able to access the downloads via:

** https://ubuntu-mate.org/wily/

=== Upgrading from 15.04 ===

Before upgrading, it is highly recommended to back up your data. See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem | this page]]</nowiki> for tutorials on how to backup your data. Or just download '''<nowiki>[[http://clonezilla.org/downloads.php | Clonezilla]]</nowiki>''' and create an image of your hard drive or system partition.

There are no offline upgrade options for Ubuntu MATE. Please ensure you have network connectivity to one of the official mirrors or to a locally accessible mirror and follow the instructions below.

==== GUI Upgrade ====

The included GUI update manager will offer you the latest release of '''Ubuntu MATE'''. 

* Open "System -> Administration -> Software & Updates".
* Select the 3rd Tab called "Updates".
* Set the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version" drop-down menu to "For any new version".
* Press Alt+F2 and type in <code>update-manager</code> to the command box.
* Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '15.10' is available.
* Click "Upgrade" and follow the on-screen instructions.

==== Shell Upgrade ====

* Install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package if it is not already installed.
* Make sure the <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> is set to normal.
* Launch '''MATE Terminal''' by pressing Ctrl+Alt+T.
* Execute the upgrade tool with the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade</code>.
* Follow the on-screen instructions.

== Known issues ==

As is to be expected, with any release, there are some significant known bugs that users may run into with this release of Ubuntu MATE 15.10. The ones we know about at this point (and some of the workarounds), are documented here so you don't need to spend time reporting these bugs again:

* In Virtualbox, the installer currently has a bug where after the installation is complete, the installation medium will eject, but you will be unable to press ENTER to reboot. Powering off and back on should boot you into your installed system. This is being tracked in bug <nowiki>[[Bug:1447038]]</nowiki>

* The amd64 (Intel x86 64bit) images specifically targeted at Apple hardware (amd64+mac) are no longer produced. Most Apple computers are now capable of booting the amd64 image directly using the EFI (not legacy) boot method so long as their firmware is up to date. If for some reason your hardware doesn't boot properly using the amd64 image, make sure you don't have a pending EFI update and if that still doesn't work, then patch the 64-bit ISO using the software in <nowiki>[[Bug:1298894]]</nowiki> (tested working on Macbook 2,1). Alternatively, simply use the i386 (32bit) image instead.

* Due to changes in syslinux, it is not currently possible to use usb-creator from 14.04 and earlier releases to write USB images for 15.04; we believe that it is also not possible to use usb-creator from a 15.04 system to write USB images for earlier releases.  For now the workaround is to use a matching release of Ubuntu to write the images, but we intend to issue updates soon to work around this incompatibility.  <nowiki>[[Bug:1325801]]</nowiki>

* Marco 1.10 is unstable on some Integrated Graphics Processors from Intel, this is being tracked in <nowiki>[[Bug:1495313]]</nowiki>. If you are affected, these are the work arounds:
** Use Compiz as your window manager, which can be enabled via '''MATE Tweak'''
** Install <code>metacity</code> and use it as your window manager. Metacity can be enabled via '''MATE Tweak'''
