{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu replacements for Windows programs to meet particular or specialised user requirements ==

Guidelines: The entire procedure needs to be easily accessible to a person who has no experience outside Microsoft Windows, and who has no knowledge of the technicalities of Windows or any other operating system.  Commandline instructions must be avoided entirely.  If the only way to carry out the procedure requires commandline entries, please script these in the correct order so they can be automated as a hidden method.  The same will apply to any code you write.  Your script and your code should be included in your report.
Any failed attempts should be documented fully, this will then allow others to attempt the process with some prior knowledge, and might even attract some people who can create a solution.  If at all possible, make the procedure work using simplified user-friendly tools such as the Ubuntu Software Centre, or use a procedure that can be added to the Software Centre in the form of pre-compiled packages. Please look at the edit page fully first time round - there are a lot of comments to help you.

Begin by stating the Windows user's 'need', and how you have attempted to meet this need, what package(s) you have installed and how well you perceive the need to have been met.  Please describe in full the entire process including ALL the shortcomings under the following headings:

Title and your name and date of entry

/* if you want to hide your details, please put the information in a comment like this */
/* b.drake@ntlworld.com */ 

Your Computer Description and Ubuntu version

Object and Windows-users 'need to be met'

Installation Procedure

/* This is pretty free-form. Please provide both objective and subjective results in as much detail as you can. 
What difficulties are going to be experienced by a totally non-technical person when they carry out your procedure?
Continue your report, paying particular attention to point out where things were confusing or broken!
How well was the 'need' met in your opinion?  If possible, discuss this with the person who has the need. */

Problems/Bugs

/* Describe any difficulties experienced or bugs found. These need to include things that actually 'can't' and won't work ...'  we must not give hope in an impossible (for now) scenario.  Remember once you fail to fulfil your promise, you have made an aggressor forever!!! Just be absolutely straight down the line HONEST - please */

Summary

/* Your final thoughts, particularly what you think can be done to simplify this procedure. Thanks! */

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

==== Title ====
Use of WebCams with Ubuntu - Submitted by Barry Drake on 27th December.  b[dot]drake[at]ntlworld[dot]com

==== Your Computer Description and Ubuntu version ====

Quad core AMD processor running at 3 GiHz with 2 GiB ram.  Procedure is known to work with no problems with PC's of a far lesser specification.  Ubuntu 10.04 desktop 32bit.

==== Object and Windows-user need to be met ====

The user wishes to have a webcam in operation.  They have no idea how to accomplish this, and are probably asking how they can obtain Ubuntu drivers, as the disk that came with the webcam has only the drivers for Windows Vista and Windows 7.  Can they use these drivers? is the question they are asking.  This procedure could be placed in an FAQ under the heading: Can I use the Windows drivers that came with my new WebCam?

==== Installation Procedure ====

Most WebCams are 'plug 'n play' on Ubuntu.  There may not be any pre-installed applications that use a WebCam on your computer, so to test your WebCam, you might want to install a simple application called 'Cheese'.  Simply open Applications->Ubuntu Software Centre->Sound & Video->Cheese.  Click on the install button, and the Software Centre will automatically install Cheese for you.  When it has completed the installation, go to Applications->Sound & Video, and you will see that Cheese has been added to the menu.  Click on Cheese with your new WebCam plugged in and you should see the picture you are getting from your Web Cam.  Cheese will allow you to take a still photo of this and save it if you want to.  Cheese is limited in its capability.  Now you can see your WebCam is working, you can use it to the full with other applications

==== Problems/Bugs ====

None known.

==== Summary ====

This is a simple procedure that was able to be carried out by a non-technical former Windows user with no problems.  They went on to install Skype, and are currently using their new WebCam with this.  The Skype website told them all they needed to know to get Skype up-and running with Ubuntu.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
==== Title ====

Use of Libronix and Logos books under Ubuntu - http://www.libronix.com/ for details of this software.
/* Submitted by Barry Drake on 27th December.  b.drake@ntlworld.com */

==== Your Computer Description and Ubuntu version ====

All hardware - all releases of Ubuntu

==== Object and Windows-user need to be met ====

My colleague has over £1000 worth of Logos and Libronix electronic books.  He is very interested in upgrading to Ubuntu.  His question is 'How can I move my library over to Ubuntu?'

==== Installation Procedure ====

There is currently no means at all of reading books of the Libronix proprietary format under the Ubuntu platform.  As a further caution, Libronix is known not to work under any derivative of Wine.  Contact by e-mail with Libronix implies that they have currently no plans for a Linux version of their software.

==== Problems/Bugs ====

The problem is absolute and unsolvable by us.  However, continued lobbying of Libronix by Ubuntu users will almost certainly bring results.  This was the case on the Mac platform.

==== Summary ====

There is currently no possibility of a solution to this problem.  Ubuntu is not for the Libronix user.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
==== Title ====

CAD application to replace AutoCad
/* Submitted by Barry Drake on 27th December.  b.drake@ntlworld.com */
* Qcad - imports DXF formats
* FreeCad - imports (nearly) all CAD formats

==== Your Computer Description and Ubuntu version ====

All hardware - all releases of Ubuntu

==== Object and Windows-user need to be met ====

As complete compatibility with AutoCad and AutoCad files as is possible.

==== Installation Procedure ====

The application at http://www.bricsys.com/en_INTL/ is expected to be highly compatible with AutoCad.  Qcad also offers compatibility with the Autocad file format.  Both for pay, closed source applications.  If you require an open source application, there are good CAD apps out there.  FreeCad is one such such, but as yet Freecad does not handle the AutoCad drawing file format.

==== Problems/Bugs ====

None that we are aware of at this point.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
