{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:windows-authentication-integration
* '''Packages affected''': winbind, samba-common, samba

=== Summary ===

A new package will be developed that will allow, via a simple command, a Ubuntu system to join a Windows AD domain, and authenticate to that domain.
In phase two, Domain join functionality will be integrated in to the installer used by Ubuntu server.

=== Release Note ===

Domain join is an optional function that will perform all steps necessary to authenticate a Ubuntu system against a Windows Domain controller.  This includes changes to the smb.conf, pam.d and nsswitch.conf.
.
=== Rationale ===

For Ubuntu Server edition to achieve its goal of replacing MS Windows in server deployments, it is necessary to integrate seamlessly into a MS network.  This is the first step in that integration. 

=== Use Cases ===

Bill runs a Windows network and would like to use an Ubuntu Web Server.  It must authenticate through AD like the IIS server it is replacing.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== Code Changes ====

Winbind will be separated from the SAMBA code base.  

==== Migration ====

During the Hardy development cycle, this feature will be in addition to the current manual configuration methods currently available.  Migration might be desired in the future

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
