{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I am currently a postdoctoral researcher at the College of William and Mary. I have been using Linux and open source products since ~2000. I have been using Linux on my laptops since 2002. Currently I am using Ubuntu 7.04 on two laptops:

* Dell Inspiron 600M (Intel Pentium M Centrino, 512MB RAM), posted here: LaptopTestingTeam/DellInspiron600m

* Sony PCG-FXA53 (AMD AthlonXP, 512MB RAM)

If you have questions regarding those two laptops, feel free to contact me. I will try to help as much as I can.

Wirawan ( wirawan0 @at@ gmail .dot. com )

== Update with Intrepid Ibex (200812) ==

Below are the list of open issues from using Ubuntu 8.10 with the two laptops above.

=== Dell Inspiron 600M/Latitude D600 ===
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/linux/+bug/285323 | Locked keys after Fn+Up/Dn brightness control]]</nowiki>
* Adjustment of brightness via gnome-power-manager (see, eg. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/linux/+bug/285323/comments/47]]</nowiki>) does not always work especially if the laptop is just turned on from suspend. Don't know why yet.
* Autodetect-wireless still doesn't work with /etc/network/interfaces because the new hal suspend script (/usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux) uses pm-utils, and pm-utils seems to not bring down/up the network interfaces at all.
* Trouble authenticating to WPA2 enterprise network. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wpasupplicant/+bug/304126]]</nowiki>; workaround exists.
* WPA supplicant still has trouble maintaining connection. Eventually the connection failed.

=== VAIO laptop ===
* The delayed start after laptop resume from suspend is still there, but happened randomly and the delay time varies. Bug entry: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/312372]]</nowiki> . This bug report seems to be related: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/226279]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
