{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Event: The first <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1093/detail/|Milwaukee Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> was on Sept 2. This event will be on first Friday of each month. 1 attendee, may change the venue or time, and advertise more broadly. The next <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1094/detail/|Milwaukee Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> will be October 7

* Event: Sept 3 IRC <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1177/detail/|Brainstorm Triage Jam]]</nowiki>. This training session of how to triage Brainstorm ideas attracted two students, and triaged 10 ideas.

* Event: Sept 4 IRC <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1178/detail/|Wisconsin Bug Jam]]</nowiki>. The training session attracted five students, and triaged 10 bugs.

* Event: This month's <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1085/detail/|Madison Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> was Sept 17. This event is on the third Saturday of each month, and is hosted by <nowiki>[[http://madisonlinux.org/|Madison LUG]]</nowiki>. The next <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1087/detail/|Madison Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> will be October 15.

* Event: September 26, Rick was interviewed on <nowiki>[[http://www.wxpr.org|WXPR radio]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1308/detail/|Monthly Meeting]]</nowiki>: Sept 27, 8:00 CDT in #ubuntu-us-wi was postponed to Oct 5 due to bad weather causing connectivity problems for several members.

* We welcome new members. Join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-Wisconsin|Launchpad Team]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-wi|mailing list]]</nowiki>, and get involved!
