{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Event: This month's <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1095/detail/|Milwaukee Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> was November 4. This event is on first Friday of each month. The next <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1096/detail/|Milwaukee Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> will be December 2. There was one attendee. If attendance is low in December, the event will be suspended pending a revamp.

* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/meetings/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/266/detail/|LoCo Application Update Meeting]]</nowiki>: Postponed due to scheduling conflicts and extra-busy schedules by some key participants. The application has been tabled for a few months.

* Event: This month's <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-wisconsin/1088/detail/|Madison Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> was November 19. This event is on the third Saturday of each month, and is hosted by <nowiki>[[http://madisonlinux.org/|Madison LUG]]</nowiki>. The next Madison Ubuntu Hour will be December 21.

* Monthly Meeting: Due to scheduling conflicts, there was no meeting this month. The busy schedule of some members is expected to continue through much of the winter. Other members are encouraged to take up the slack!
