{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Michael “Wolf” Halton AB, MSc - Email: wolf@wolfhalton.info

* Published author on IT Security, Open-Source and Metaphysical Theory & Practice.
* Professional Speaker on topics of Internet Security, Linux and Open-Source Adoption, Spam-relief strategies, Project Management Strategies and Painless Grad-School Progress.
* CEO, Atlanta Cloud Technology, Inc. - Private Open-Source Cloud Services medical, real estate and entertainment industries.
* Assisted in developing the curriculum for the Masters of Information Security specialization at Capella University.
* A contributor to the forums since 2005, I have at intervals been very busy on the forums answering posts as a member of the  beginners and unanswered posts teams. 
* Ubuntu Linux how-tos @ http://wolfhalton.info and http://wiki.sourcefreedom.com.  
* I have been holding linux fests to correspond with the Ubuntu release for a three releases 9.04, 9.10 and 10.04 -  at ITT Tech - Atlanta.
* Unofficial Linux Evangelist at ITT Tech - Atlanta GA - 11/2008 - present
* Unofficial Linux Evangelist at ITT Tech - Duluth/John's Creek GA - 08/2005 - 08/2008
* Unofficial Ubuntu alpha tester since 2006. 

----
CategoryHomepage
