{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This BOF featured Erinn Clark from the Debian Women Project

== The Debian Women Project ==

* The original idea: Get more women involved in Debian, especially in technical parts of the project.
* Provide a starting point for women, who want to get involved in the Debian project
* Currently: 8 women involved in the Debian project, (~9 women have ever been Debian-Developers)
* Problems addressed:
** It's hard to get into the Debian Project (even if you're a man) => might scare off women very likely
** Women who were interested in development, were rejected for many different reason
* Motivation of the Project: Can we make a difference?

== Women & Open Source Software in general ==

* Distinction between technical and non-technical work
* Most women are involved in non-technical parts of a project
* Example: OpenOffice.org-Marketing project - mainly driven by women
* Cultural problem: technology unfortunately is often considered a male thing

== Women & Ubuntu ==

* Why are there no women involved in Ubuntu development? It's a case of scale of the project!
* Major Plus: Ubuntu is newer than Debian
* This means: We can do everything to not run into the problems other projects face(d)
* First Part of this philosophy: Code of Conduct
** Whether it works, has still to be proved (so far, so good)
** If there is something like Code of Conduct, "unsocialiced people" are more likely to not show up in the Ubuntu project
** Adaption of behavoir:
*** Most people on mailing list and irc act according to the Code of Conduct
*** New users first watch and then act the same way
** Meetings on IRC tend to be more like a true conversation

== Possible actions to take ==

* Docs should be more precise, more documentating the "process" of doing something (esp. bug reporting, because it's an important task and the task with the most cryptic docs)
* Women shall be more "visible": encourage all female users you know to get involved!
* Encourage women to go to conferences (or sponsor them!)
* New project: a question day
* Learning together, mentoring  on a local scale (local teams)
* More social events
* Adding something more specific about sexism into the Code of Conduct
* Use gender-neutral language in any language
* Encourage women to use female nicks on IRC
* There should be a doc on how people can help the project
* Go to schools, attract young people to Ubuntu
* Promoting Ubuntu in Cybercafés
* A ubuntu-love / ubuntu-family mailing list
* Something similiar to debian-jr
* Marketing targeted at female customers: Use it, even if you are a woman
