{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

----
'''I, Woodrow Shen, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Woodrow Shen
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~woodrow-shen
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/woodrowshen
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to contribute more packages in universe.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am a software engineer who works for Canonical Taiwan branch since 2014, and currently my role is in charge of OEM IOT/classic projects for engineering/deliver to fit the requirements from customers. 

== My Ubuntu story ==
Before touching Ubuntu for long term, I was a Linux user (w/ other distros) to develop some applications for projects when I'm a student with BS/MS. Until I worked on NAS company, I started to use Ubuntu as my primary usage from precise (maybe). After that, I'm happy to work on Ubuntu related behind Canonical.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
==== linux ====
===== SRU for bionic =====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1771542|Suspend to idle: Open lid didn't resume]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1808097|Console got stuck using serial tty after logout]]</nowiki>

==== ubiquity ====
===== trackers =====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1777900
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1372326
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1783047

==== gnome-screenshot ====
===== changes =====
* http://package-import.ubuntu.com/diffs/gnome-screenshot

==== casper ====
===== trackers =====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1755863
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1754777

===== changes (WIP) =====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1793444

==== ubuntu-seeds ====
===== changes (WIP) =====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-meta/+bug/1793472

==== ledmon ====
===== SRU (DONE) =====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ledmon/+bug/1789786
===== MIR (WIP) =====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ledmon/+bug/1794219

=== Areas of work ===
As I work on OEM enablement, I deal with various bugs/features from Ubuntu Core/Desktop/Server, and sometimes I dig kernel issues. I also focus on image build process what foundation did but it's more likely for customers.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Sufficient resources to support upstream
* Highly willing to cooperate with Ubuntu developers/mentors
* Get connected between vendors/customers and community
* Keep learning in python/go for bug-fixes

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
For now, I'd like to divide my works into packaging/uploading/bug-fixes, but there is a sort of priority to handle the requests at some points. The SRU may depend on project-specific; sometimes I'm interested in kernel issues and try to figure out.

I think another point I can take care is the installer related (casper/ubiquity/subiquity), and will dive several bugs if I have leisure time.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
