{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Alternative solutions for tracking workflow bugs are currently being discussed in various mailing lists (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-May/025390.html|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2008-May/000842.html|2]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2008-May/000890.html|3]]</nowiki>). This page aims to list the current proposals with a short description and Pros/Cons to aid in the discussion. Please use a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Neutral_point_of_view|neutral POV]]</nowiki> in edits of this page. 

== Solution alternatives ==

=== 1. Current procedure ===

* Workflow bugs are filed against the affected packages along with other Ubuntu bugs and are identifiable by the titles such as 'Please sync foo', the bug description and team subscriptions.
* Documentation is added to the bug triage pages explaining how to identify these bugs and that are best avoided

==== Pros ====

* No changes required to current development workflow

==== Cons ====

* These bugs are not very discoverable by users and triagers which will lead to future confusion
* Adds to the already extensive triage documentation, which raises the bar to entry
* Programmatic detection or exclusion of such bugs in scripts and generated bug lists is difficult

=== 2. Assignment ===

* Worflow bugs should be assigned to teams (or individuals?) as assigned bugs are generally left alone by triagers

==== Pros ====

* Simple to implement
* Would yield tidy lists of assigned bugs for the related teams as a side-effect

==== Cons ====

* The use of assignment is itself not well standardised across the project, so this approach is not completely clear
* Inflates bug mail to members of the given team

=== 3. Set to private ===

* Set workflow bugs to private to remove them from default searches of users and bugsquad
* Create a workflow-bugs team in LP containing at least bug-control and development teams so the bugs are visible to these groups

==== Pros ====

* Takes these bugs completely off the radar of users, bug filers and triagers who would normally not need to reference them

==== Cons ====

* Concerns that this creates a needless level of secrecy around what should be an open set of processes
* bugs become invisible to interested parties outside the Ubuntu project, including upstream developers
* These bugs disappear from search engine results and various statistics
* Not applicable for needs-packaging bugs which are often filed by users
* Adds another step to workflow processes, some of which are already a bit complex

=== 4. Text notice ===

* Bugs in this category filed without this notice (might be common for needs-packaging bugs) could be usefully triaged by the bugsquad by adding the notice and subscribing the right team
* Example:
<pre>
WORKFLOW BUG: This bug is used for a development process and 
does normally not require further triage or user comments. 
Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WorkflowBugs for more 
information about workflow bugs.
</pre>

==== Pros ====

* Simple to implement on both new and existing bug reports.
* Informative and self explanatory

==== Cons ====

* Requires an additional copy-and-paste operation for each new bug of this type
* Looks untidy and dumbed down

=== 5. Tags ===

* A single 'workflow' tag or separate tags for the different tasks

==== Pros ====

* Simple to implement
* Once tag subscriptions were implemented (<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/151129|bug 151129]]</nowiki>), the various teams wouldn't need to exist any more. For example, someone who dealt with sync requests could either subscribe to the "sync-request" tag, or occasionally look through the reports with that tag, depending on their level of involvement.

==== Cons ====

* Tags are a bit cumbersome to use (<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/83736|bug 83736]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/98585|bug 98585]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/127138|bug 127138]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/184737|bug 184737]]</nowiki>).
* Not as self-explanatory as a text block with a link

== Comments ==

To address the tag cumbersome issue, I made a <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dev/ubuntu-gm-scripts/ubuntu/annotate/kees%40outflux.net-20080508210717-chwrjrftza3x5vuw?file_id=lp_buttontags.user.j-20080108024506-u79sww4f31nuls3f-1|buttontags]]</nowiki> greasemonkey script that makes tags a lot more convenient to use.  -- bryce

On the mailing list there was discussion on hiding workflow bugs (which would require changes in Launchpad) but, wouldn't it be better (and possibly easier to implement) to add a workflow bug-type to Launchpad (somewhat like the patch tag). The difference to option #5 would be that a) it should be easier to set than a tag (although internally it could still be a tag, which could just be filtered out from the list, or even just let it be a new "importance") and it would display a text telling that the current bug is a workflow bug, when it's set (like the duplicates info bar). -- RainCT

"Workflow bug" is a weird term -- they're not workflow-related, and they're not bugs. They're requests to do a particular thing. One long-term approach would be to generalize the Launchpad Bugs tracker into an issue tracker that classified issues into (a) defects, (b) feature requests/blueprints, and (c) other to-dos such as the ones discussed here. They'd all have the same statuses and importances, but it would be more obvious that to-dos should be left alone except by their reporters/assignees. -- MatthewPaulThomas
