{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

There seems to be a possibility for working on DocBook documents using OpenOffice.org.  In fact, OpenOffice.org documents store the text contents in an XML file which is very similar to DocBook, and which can be translated to proper DocBook with a little bit of care.

There is a program and document template called <nowiki>[[http://cvs.nuxeo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/Indesko/ooo2dbk/|OOo2DBK]]</nowiki> that seems to be able to do the trick.

OOo2DBK is an OpenOffice.org document to DocBook XML converter. It can produce both DocBook article and DocBook book documents.

If people can write documents against the OOo2db template, either side can easily convert their OOo to DB. There may be some cleanup, but the general markup effort will be reduced.

The latest ooo2dbk snapshot is available from Nuxeo CVS (select "Download tarball"): http://cvs.nuxeo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/Indesko/ooo2dbk/

=== Short tutorial / practical tips ===

If you try OOo2DBK, please write tips and suggestions here.  A short tutorial would be really valuable.

From AbdullahRamazanoglu Thu Apr 21 11:15:05 +0100 2005
From: Abdullah Ramazanoglu
Date: Thu, 21 Apr 2005 11:15:05 +0100
Subject: Installation
Message-ID: <20050421111505+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

1. Go to http://cvs.nuxeo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/Indesko/ooo2dbk/ and download via the <nowiki>[[http://cvs.nuxeo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/Indesko/ooo2dbk.tar.gz|Download tarball]]</nowiki> link at the bottom of the page.

2. Create .deb and install as below: {{{
$ sudo -i

3. oowriter -> File -> Templates -> Organize...
** Select Templates at the left-bottom listbox,
** Right click onto "Default" Template at the left upper list of templates,
** A popup menu will appear: select "Import Template"
** File selection dialog will appear: Select /usr/share/doc/ooo2dbk/doc/template.stw
** Close the "Edit..." dialog

4. Create your new documents in OO.o via either,
** "New Using Template" button at the main toolbar or,
** "File -> New -> Templates and Documents".
(Select the template imported from ooo2dbk)

5. Create an article with:
** $ ooo2dbk --article --zipfile=kubuntuhowto.zip kubuntuhowto.sxw
Create a book with:
** $ ooo2dbk --book --zipfile=kubuntuguide.zip kubuntuguide.sxw

Well, unfortunately step-5 didn't work for me. I've created an .sxw from the template, added some bits onto it, and tried step 5 which gave me several parser errors wrt XML tags and produced an empty .zip output.
----
CategoryDocteam
