{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Wutnubu

That's who...

Born: Amsterdam 1957

Born again: Ubuntu January 2005

That's when...

It's the "less" in Ubuntu that made us use it all over the place. Anyone in this house uses Ubuntu with pleasure.
* Less program's installed the first time
* Less effort to install
* Less cd's to carry around
* Less computing power needed
* Less money needed to get it
But the one and only more in comparing it with other open OS's is a great one "more people use it".
* Being a project manager ICT, it's a good thing to be part of the dutch team and helping organize it all.
* Being a philosopher, it's a good thing to see the Ubuntu humanity philosophy.
* Being a social human being, it's a good thing to see that it's free to get.
* Being a Buddhist, it's a good thing to see the code's of conduct.

That's why.....

The things I give back  to the Ubuntu-community are:

-Active member of the Ubuntu-NL team.
-Active member of the Ubuntu-NL Event-team.
-Organization of the Gutsy Release Party on 27 October 2007. About 500 visitors, many well known speakers
  and lots of coffee and tea, it took two weeks to recover, so the next party must be
  organized with a little bit more help ;-) and Hardy will be booming in the Netherlands.
-Active forum reader and answering machine when possible en usefull.

That's how...

That's it folks...
----
CategoryHomepage
