{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

LOUD Lucid is currently missing several packages:

=== loud-desktop Dependencies ===
* loud-base:
** loud-apt: Probably will be added when the LCSEE mirror situation is un-FUBARed.
* --(loud-autologin: Missing)-- '''Fixed'''
* loud-build-essential:
** loud-config-engine: Missing, no source in repositories
* --(loud-cs110: Depends on gnulist, loud-java, drjava)-- '''Fixed'''
* --(loud-cs111:  /\ /\)-- '''Fixed'''
* --(loud-cs210: Depends on jes, loud-java)-- '''Fixed'''
* loud-cs230: Depends on kivio, which is missing from the Packages file on the repo but on the mirror if you look for it manually... dunno what's going on here.
* --(loud-java: Ubuntu has moved to OpenJDK in the repos ( see https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sun-java6/+bug/420426 ) so Sun Java is only available when 3rd-party repos are enabled (LOUD doesn't do this by default).  Either LOUD needs to enable 3rd-party repos or loud-java needs to depend on OpenJDK.  Latter is probably easier.)-- '''Fixed'''
* --(loud-usplash-theme: Usplash isn't installed by default, dunno what the new system for boot splash is (EDIT: It's called xsplash, dunno how to theme it))-- '''FIXED with loud-xsplash-theme'''
** --(Karmic replaced usplash with xsplash.  Now Lucid is (partially) replacing xsplash with Plymouth.  Now I have to figure out how to theme Plymouth...)-- '''FIXED with loud-plymouth-theme'''
** --(To theme plymouth, stuff goes in /lib/plymouth/themes/theme-name.  I pirated the xubuntu-logo theme into working (I think) and after a test it will go into loud-plymouth-theme, fixing this issue.)--
** --(To theme xsplash, one must simply create replacements for the existing files and drop them into /usr/share/images/xsplash.  There is a package called sabily-xsplash-artwork in the repos whose source can give some hints.)--
* --(mozilla-thunderbird: just thunderbird now)-- '''Fixed'''
* --(vim-full: Is just vim now)-- '''Fixed'''

=== lbmbuilder ===
* --(lbmbuilder will need updated for lucid as well.  I'll probably try to add the ability to switch between LOUD versions on the fly as well (Bug #382544))-- '''Fixed'''

=== loud-utils ===
* reloud stuff will need updated for lucid.
