{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Basic Acceptance Test ==
To generate a test .deb from ezpgk: ./package.py wxbanker 0.7 .0
These are the steps to perform on a fresh machine to ensure a new version of wxBanker works correctly.

0. Ensure wxBanker is NOT installed. (clean: sudo find "*wxbanker*" | grep -v "/Code/" | sudo xargs rm -rf)
* Install the package.
* Ensure wxBanker appears in Applications -> Office.
* Launch it, ensure you are welcomed. Close it.
* Launch again, make sure you are not welcomed.
* sudo apt-get install language-pack-fr-base language-pack-ru-base --yes
* Run the tests: python -c "from wxbanker.tests import alltests; alltests.main()"
* Add an account, enter a $1 transaction with no description.
* Add another account, enter a 0.50 transfer from A to B.
* Create a recurring transaction for today for 0.25, transfer from A.
* Make sure the pop-up appears. Click it, make sure the transactions are entered.
* Click the summary tab, make sure it loads correctly.
* Click the Help -> About. Make sure it displays the correct version.
* Change the currency via Settings -> Currency to JPY, make sure everything changes.
* Import a CSV fixture from /usr/share/wxbanker/fixtures/*.csv, make sure it works.
* LC_ALL=ru_RU.utf8 wxbanker => make sure the app is localized in currency AND language.

== Releasing ==
Dependencies:
* sudo apt-get install bzr devscripts debhelper cdbs vim
* HOST=foo scp -r $HOST:~/.ssh ~/ && scp -r $HOST:~/.gnupg ~/ && scp -r $HOST:~/.bazaar ~/

To do a beta/RC release:

0. make sure new templates are up and email wxbanker-translators
* run through basic acceptance test
* push to dev PPA (like: 0.7~beta~ppa1)
* email wxbanker-users (like: https://lists.launchpad.net/wxbanker-users/msg00004.html)
* tweet from wxbanker re: announcement (like: http://twitter.com/wxbanker/status/19408307177)

To do a final release (this uses 0.7 as an example):
 
0. bzr merge lp:~mrooney/wxbanker/translations-autoexport && python wxbanker/templater.py && bzrci "sync launchpad translations export in preparation for release" && bzr push
* update wxBanker's version.py
* cd packaging && dch -i -c changelog (change to -0ubuntu1, correct distro)
* ./package.py wxbanker 0.7 .0 stable
* ./package.py wxbanker 0.7 .0 lp
* ./release.py wxbanker 0.7 (creates release from milestone, marks bugs released, uploads artifacts)
* Make LP announcement: https://launchpad.net/wxbanker/+announce
** Headline: "wxBanker 0.7!"
** Summary: "wxBanker 0.7 has been released! See the release page for details: https://launchpad.net/wxbanker/0.7/0.7"
** URL: https://launchpad.net/wxbanker/0.7/0.7
* File update request bug in Ubuntu: ./request.py https://launchpad.net/wxbanker/trunk/0.7/+download/wxbanker-0.7.0.tar.gz
* Blog on mikerooney.rowk.com
* Tweet blog post from wxBanker
* RT from MikeRooney
* Email users mailing list with link to post
* Relax.
 
