{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

How to get your <nowiki>[[http://www.clevo.com.tw/en/products/prodinfo.asp?productid=336|Clevo W150HRM laptop]]</nowiki> running under Ubuntu GNU/Linux.

== Compatibility ==
Please check for now:
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Asus_U36SD

== Tweaking ==
=== Discrete NVIDIA High end graphics card (dGPU) ===
Since the laptop uses the so called Optimus technology, support for the high end graphics card is a bit limited. However, it is still possible to use it, by offloading a certain application (such as a game) to the NVIDIA card and then copying the content onto the Intel graphics buffer using VirtualGL.

One simple way of doing this is by installing Bumblebee 3.0. Simply call the following commands to install:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia
sudo usermod -a -G bumblebee $USER
</pre>

Now log out, and then log in again.

To run programs making them use the NVIDIA card you need to use the command "optirun". For example to run "openarena" open a terminal and type "optirun openarena".

=== Fn-keys ===
Brightness controls and monitor switch doesn't work (yet). However sound buttons and de rest does work.

=== Bluetooth ===
Bluetooth works out-of-the-box.

=== USB 3.0 ===
In Ubuntu 11.10 USB 3.0 works out of the box.

=== Battery time ===
There are two easy things that can double your battery time.

==== Intel integrated graphics card power management ====
''Note: not fully tested yet''

Open the file <code>/etc/default/grub</code> with super user privileges (See <nowiki>[[#Creating_a_file_where_super user_permissions_are_required|here]]</nowiki> for instructions).

Find this line:
 <pre>
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
 }}}

and change it into this:
 {{{
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.i915_enable_rc6=1"
 }}}

then run the following command in a terminal:
{{{
sudo update-grub
</pre>

'''OR'''
You can change the frequently of the Intel chip manually (only works with Ubuntu Unity). Install indicator-cpufreq:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:artfwo/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install indicator-cpufreq
</pre>
There will appears a new chip icon in Unity. You can know click on the icon and change from 'Ondemand' to 'Powersave' to save power. You can also switch it to 'Performance' for maximal performances in the overall usage of the Intel chip.

==== Discrete High end graphics card (NVIDIA) power management ====
You can use the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee|Bumblebee Project]]</nowiki> to disable the NVIDIA card if it's not used. Via optirun command it's even possible to use the NVIDIA card (dGPU).

By default bbswitch turn off your dGPU when it is not used completely out-of-the-box, just install Bumblebee.

=== Webcam issue ===
Works out-of-the-box, no problems detected.

== Tips ==
=== Creating a file where super user permissions are required ===
How to edit/create a file <code>/etc/example_file</code>.
==== Using graphical editor ====
<pre>
gksu gedit /etc/example_file
</pre>

==== Using a simple console based editor ====
<pre>
sudo nano /etc/example_file
</pre>

== Reported minor issues ==
* 'Jumpy' two-finger scroll
* VGA button doesn't work, Bumblebee makes it perhaps useful in the future

== Links ==
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee]]</nowiki> - Bumblebee Wiki
