{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page describes how to install a version of the latest wacom driver newer than that available in the ubuntu repositories.

=== Using A Package Archive ===
The simplest way is to add the wacom-plus package archive by first holding down [Ctrl] and [Alt] and then pressing the letter [T] you will summon a terminal to type the following commands in preparation:

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:doctormo/wacom-plus
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

Then, In order to install the updated kernel module for Bamboo Fun/Newer tablets:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install wacom-dkms
</pre>

Restart the computer for changes to take effect.

=== Compiling it yourself ===
Usually it is not necessary to compile the drivers, as they come pre-compiled. It is strongly discouraged to compile your own drivers and instead should seek a ppa with the updated driver from a trusted source. If one doesn't exist, then please ask.

To install, using the precompiled binaries:

* Download the latest drivers from the <nowiki>[[http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/|Linux Wacom Project]]</nowiki>
* Extract the .tar.bz2 file to your desktop (you can safely delete these files later)
* Open a terminal (Accessories > Terminal)
* type the following, entering your password when prompted and replacing "linuxwacom-0.8.1-6" with the name of the folder created when you extracted the .tar.bz2 file:
 <pre>
cd Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.8-6/prebuilt
sudo ./uninstall
sudo ./install
</pre>

=== Compiling the driver manually ===
Sometimes using the pre-built binaries is not possible, and the drivers must be compiled by hand. Using this method you are more likely to run into problems, so it's better if you know a little about compiling already, but not always essential.

* Download the latest drivers from the <nowiki>[[http://linuxwacom.sourceforge.net/|Linux Wacom Project]]</nowiki>
* Extract the .tar.bz2 file to your desktop (you can safely delete these files later)
* Open a terminal (Accessories > Terminal)
* type the following, entering your password when prompted and replacing "linuxwacom-0.8.1-6" with the name of the folder created when you extracted the .tar.bz2 file:
 <pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get build-dep wacom-tools
cd Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.8-6
./configure --prefix=/usr
make
sudo make uninstall
sudo make install
</pre>

'''Note''': wacom-tools is not available from 10.04, replace with xserver-xorg-input-wacom instead.

You should make sure that "./configure" and "make" aren't returning errors. If they are, you can try googling for the error text, or asking in the ubuntuforums support thread at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=967147

'''Note''': if you have previously installed using the prebuilt drivers, you should clean these up before compiling:
<pre>
cd Desktop/linuxwacom-0.8.8-6/prebuilt
sudo ./uninstall
</pre>

'''Note2''': if you also want to install the wacom kernel module, you need to add --enable-wacom to the ./configure line. This usually isn't necessary unless you are using an older kernel which does not support your tablet. In this case the line would be:
<pre>
./configure --enable-wacom --prefix=/usr
</pre>

=== Reverting the driver to the Ubuntu version ===
If for any reason you wish to revert to the version of the drivers provided by Ubuntu, you can do so by typing the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
sudo aptitude reinstall xserver-xorg-input-wacom wacom-tools
</pre>

'''Note''': wacom-tools is not available from 10.04 so you can omit this.

----
CategoryWacom
