{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

WebMin is a web-based GUI admin tool for Linux.

WebMin was in Ubuntu until 5.10 Breezy Badger, and was then dropped because it is not compatible with the way that Ubuntu packages handle configuration files, and caused unexpected issues with people's systems.  See https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/2873 for more background.  Note that the Debian (and Ubuntu) policy and requirements for how packages deal with configuration files is stricter than other distributions, which makes package installs and upgrades more robust.  See <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-files.html#s-config-files|Configuration files]]</nowiki> in the Debian Policy Manual for more information.

An alternative web-based GUI admin tool provided with Ubuntu Hardy is <nowiki>[[eBox]]</nowiki>.

== Installation ==

If you'd still like to install WebMin, you have a couple of options

=== 3rd Party Repo ===
Use a 3rd-party repository (unsupported).  Install via apt/Synaptic:

Add the following to your /etc/apt/sources.list through a text editor or software sources in Synaptic:

<pre>
deb http://download.webmin.com/download/repository sarge contrib
</pre>

=== Deb Package ===
Install from DEB package

Download recent deb package from Webmin site
<pre>
http://www.webmin.com/download.html
</pre>

Run the following command:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i packagefilename.deb
</pre>

There will be dependency errors and the install will fail.  You correct the failed dependencies with the following command:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install -f
</pre>
or
<pre>
sudo aptitude install -f
</pre>

''Dependency resolution options will be provided.''  Often times, the first option is to remove the webmin package.  This is '''NOT''' the option you want to select.  Press "n" to ignore that option and go on to the next.

== Autostart ==

AUTOSTART setup fails !

<pre>
Configuring Webmin to start at boot time..
Error: Failed to open /etc/rc.d/init.d/webmin for writing : Bad file descriptor
Error
-----
Failed to open /etc/rc.d/init.d/webmin for writing : Bad file descriptor
</pre>

So manually start with 
<pre>
</pre>
As at April 2008, Version 1.410 of webmin does autostart. You can also set this in webmin-->WebminConfiguration. At the bottom of the screen there is a start at boot time option.

== Configuration ==

WebMin configuration instructions.
V1.40 and perhaps older versions, remember to login with your normal Ubuntu username and password. Point your web browser to https://webmin.ip.address:10000

== Plugins ==

At the webmin site there are lots of plugins to enhance the product. So if you add something like Dansguardian / squid proxy-web filter solution to your Ubuntu PC or server, there is a dansguardian plugin for webmin.

See also <nowiki>[[WebminWithoutARootAccount]]</nowiki>

----
CategorySoftware
