{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== What is WICD? ==

WICD (pronounced like ''wicked'') is an open source wired and wireless network manager for Linux which aims to provide a simple interface to connect to networks with a wide variety of settings.  It provides support only for wired and wireless networks (no fancy VPNs, DSL routing and such), but it's a good alternative if NetworkManager gives you problems.

== Installing WICD ==

=== For Gnome / Unity ===

=== Ubuntu 18.04.1 and later ===

For versions of Ubuntu 18.04.1 and later, it's not possible to uninstall <code>network-manager</code> without uninstalling <code>ubuntu-desktop</code>. Following the instructions from <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1091653/how-do-i-disable-network-manager-permanently|AskUbuntu]]</nowiki>, we can disable <code>network-manager</code> like so:

<pre>
sudo systemctl stop NetworkManager.service
sudo systemctl disable NetworkManager.service

sudo systemctl stop NetworkManager-wait-online.service
sudo systemctl disable NetworkManager-wait-online.service

sudo systemctl stop NetworkManager-dispatcher.service
sudo systemctl disable NetworkManager-dispatcher.service

sudo systemctl stop network-manager.service
sudo systemctl disable network-manager.service
</pre>

See also the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager|community page on NetworkManager]]</nowiki>.

=== Older versions ===

Open up a Terminal and execute the following commands:

* First, we need to download the latest NetworkManager, in case we need to reinstall if WICD doesn't work:
  . <code>sudo apt-get install -d --reinstall network-manager network-manager-gnome</code>
* Then, we need to install WICD:
  . <code>sudo apt-get install wicd-gtk</code>
* Next, we uninstall NetworkManager:
  . <code>sudo apt-get remove network-manager-gnome network-manager</code>
* After everything is confirmed to be working (best to check this after rebooting), you can remove config files for NetworkManager:
  . <code>sudo dpkg --purge network-manager-gnome network-manager</code>

=== For KDE (Kubuntu) ===

Open up a Terminal and execute the following commands:

* First, we need to download the latest NetworkManager, in case we need to reinstall if WICD doesn't work:
  . <code>sudo apt-get install -d --reinstall network-manager plasma-widget-networkmanagement</code>
* Then, we need to install WICD:
  . <code>sudo apt-get install wicd-kde</code>
* Next, we uninstall NetworkManager:
  . <code>sudo apt-get remove plasma-widget-networkmanagement network-manager</code>
* After everything is confirmed to be working (it's best to check this after rebooting), you can remove config files for NetworkManager:
  . <code>sudo dpkg --purge plasma-widget-networkmanagement network-manager</code>

=== Configuring WICD ===

You can access WICD either through Applications / Internet / WICD, or by clicking on the tray icon --in KDE, you may have to add it by hand by right-clicking the triangle that shows the hidden icons in the System Tray (far right on the Task Bar), selecting System Tray Preferences and marking "Wicd client" on the Extra elements list.

Once you click on the Systray widget, you should see a list of available networks. Click on "Properties" (the wrench icon, or an arrow for older versions) next to the network you want to connect to to specify your network address or Access Point's password, if required:

* Mark Use Encryption
* Select the type of encryption of your AP (usually WPA 1/2 Hex or WEP Hex).
* Write your AP's password in Key.

Also select Automatically connect to this network if you want to do so.  Once you're done configuring it, go to the connection list again and click on it's name this time to connect to it.

== Reverting to NetworkManager ==

=== For Gnome / Unity ===

Open up a Terminal and execute the following commands:

* Install NetworkManager:
  . <code>sudo apt-get install network-manager-gnome network-manager</code>
* Then remove WICD:
  . <code>sudo apt-get remove wicd wicd-gtk</code>
* Restart your system.
* Confirm everything is working, then remove WICD config files:
  . <code>sudo dpkg --purge wicd wicd-gtk</code>

=== For KDE (Kubuntu) ===

Open up a Terminal and execute the following commands:

* Install NetworkManager:
  . <code>sudo apt-get install plasma-widget-networkmanagement network-manager</code>
* Then remove WICD:
  . <code>sudo apt-get remove wicd wicd-kde</code>
* Restart your system.
* Confirm everything is working, then remove WICD config files:
  . <code>sudo dpkg --purge wicd wicd-kde</code>

== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[NetworkManager]]</nowiki> - The standard network manager

== External links ==
* <nowiki>[[http://wicd.sourceforge.net/|WICD homepage]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryNetworking CategoryNetworking CategoryNetworking
