{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''PLEASE NOTE: This page is incomplete and maybe inaccurate; it is a compilation of information found on threads on the Ubuntu forum. If you follow its instructions, please edit it and add important steps or problems along the configuring. Thanks.'''

== New instructions ==

If you have a recent version of Ubuntu, simply plugging in the WUSB11 won't work. However, it's very simple to get it to work:

* Prior to plugging it in, do the following:
** install the firmware package: <code>sudo apt-get install atmel-firmware</code>
** load the kernel module: <code>sudo modprobe at76c50x-usb</code>
* Then plug in the WUSB11
* To make sure it works, run <code>lsusb</code>. You should now see the device listed, along with its version and hardware chipset
* Run <code>iwconfig</code> to see your wireless config; you should see a new wireless device.

== Old instructions ==

If you have a WUSB11 that is version 2.6, you're in business.  Just plug it in, hit the network icon and start looking for your network.  Mind you, I'm talking about Ubuntu 9.04 here.  I don't know about other versions.  

But if you have a WUSB11 that is NOT recognized in System+Networking in Ubuntu, or it is recognized but won't work anyway (check your config!).

1) Go to a computer that has internet access.

2) Copy this page into a .txt file (using any text editor, like notepad in windows or Applications+Accessories+Text editor in Ubuntu. 

3) Go to http://at76c503a.berlios.de/cvs.html

4) Click the 'snapshot of the cvs repository link' and save to a disk, another partition, or by using a different method of internet access.

5) Log in to your Ubuntu and copy the downloaded file (most probably named "at76c503a-cvsroot.tar.gz") to your desktop. Also copy the .txt with the instructions to the desktop and open it while you work, it may be handy for copy-pasting into the terminal.

6) Deactivate Wireless Networking in System+Administration+Networking (if it appears).

7) Unplug the Wireless Adapter

8) Restart the system

9) Open the terminal: Applications+System Tools+Terminal

10) Mind the following: In almost all applications (namely Ubuntu desktop and the text editors), after selecting a text, typing Ctrl+X will CUT the text, Ctrl+C will COPY the text, and Ctrl+V will PASTE a text previously cut or copied. So you can cut, copy or paste into a .txt using these commands.

11) Mind the following: In the terminal, to CUT you need to type Ctrl+Shift+X, to COPY you need to type Ctrl+Shift+C and to paste you need to type Ctrl+Shift+V. So you can cut, copy or paste into the terminal using these commands.

12) Mind the following: The terminal is CASE SENSITIVE, which means that it matters, for example, whether you typed "Desktop" or "desktop". Beware of the case spelling of every path you type.

13) Type (always ignore the " "): "sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-&#96;uname -r&#96;". (Note the backticks surrounding uname -r.)This will upgrade some stuff. You will be asked to insert your Ubuntu boot disk, put your password when prompted, and voila. If you have already updated it, a message saying "you have the newest version" will appear: OK so far.

14) Type: "sudo apt-get install cvs". This will install something called CVS. You will be asked to insert your Ubuntu boot disk, put your password when prompted, and voila. If you have already updated it, a message saying "you have the newest version" will appear: OK so far.

15) Get the Ubuntu cd out of your tray. Put some music to avoid rage or despair in the case things don't go as planned :).

16) Now, if you have put the downloaded file in your desktop, the location of the file will be /home/YOURUSERNAME/Desktop. If you don't know your username, right click the downloaded file, go to properties and check the location of the file. Mine is /home/sargonx/Desktop, so my username is "sargonx". From now on, I will type the commands using my username; REMEMBER TO REPLACE IT WITH YOURS. It is easier if you modify it manually in the .txt file and then copy-paste it into the terminal to avoid misspellings.

17) Type: "cd /home/sargonx/Desktop". This will get you into the desktop directory.

18) Type: "tar -xzvf at76c503a-cvsroot.tar.gz". This will extract the files within the compressed file you downloaded into a new folder on your desktop, named "at76c503a".

19) Type: "mv at76c503a CVS". This, as it took me some time to ascertain (way low Linux IQ here, guys), renames the folder you just created as "CVS".

20) Type: "cvs -d /home/sargonx/Desktop/CVS co at76c503a". This will create a copy of the "CVS" folder into the desktop, folder which is named "at76c503a".

21) Type: "cd at76c503a". This will get you into the new folder.

22) Type: "make". This step is essential, as it is some kind of pre installation or installation. Some lines will run through the terminal. Wait till it's over.

23) Type: "sudo make install". Wait till its over. This should just about make it.

24) Plug in your wireless adapter.

25) Restart Ubuntu.

25) Go to System+Administration+Networking. Type your password.

26) Select "Wireless Connection", click on properties.

27) Enter a network name, select your key type and your WEP key (that you should know, your network may have a WEP key, which is a password; type it in the "WEP key" field. Select DHCP or Fixed IP, depending on your network configuration. Hit OK.

28) Restart and try Firefox. Does internet work now? Hope it does!

If $#@& still not works:

1) Spot errors you get in the terminal and search for it in the forums, or post a question.

2) Upgrade the firmware: go to a computer with internet access and upgrade the firmware (firmware is the software of the device itself): go to www.linksys.com/support,

3) Reinstall your Ubuntu. If all alternatives are exhausted, and you got nothing to lose, you may try this... specially if you played around with the sudo command in the terminal without knowing what you were doing.

Best of luck.
----
CategoryNetworking
