{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== NetworkManager with the madwifi drivers on Dapper Drake and Gutsy Gibbon ==

When using the default madwifi drivers shipped with Ubuntu Dapper Drake Beta using NetworkManager with WPA does not work (at least for me). Therefore I have created a little HOWTO which requires building new madwifi drivers and installing two debian packages. You can find the original version of the HOWTO here:
<nowiki>[[http://www.hackenberger.at/blog/guides-for-ubuntu-dapper/how-to-configure-ubuntu-dapper-to-use-network-manager-with-the-madwifi-drivers/|Original HOWTO]]</nowiki> 

If you are using Gutsy Gibbon a new release of Madwifi can be found at <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/|Madwifi.org]]</nowiki> then follow the insructions here <nowiki>[[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo/|First Time How To]]</nowiki>

=== Instructions ===

First download the following files:
<nowiki>[[http://www.hackenberger.at/ubuntu_guides/madwifi-ng-r1531-20060427.tar.bz2|madwifi-ng-r1531-20060427.tar.bz2]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.hackenberger.at/ubuntu_guides/dhcdbd_1.10-0ubuntu12_i386.deb|dhcdbd_1.10-0ubuntu12_i386.deb]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://www.hackenberger.at/ubuntu_guides/wpasupplicant-madwifi-hack.deb|wpasupplicant-madwifi-hack.deb]]</nowiki>

The deb packages are just quick hacks to make everything work. I expect that madwifi + nm + WPA will be available in Dapper as soon as it is released.
 
Unpack the madwifi source:
<pre>
tar xjf madwifi-ng-r1531-20060427.tar.bz2
</pre>

Compile and install the drivers:
<pre>
cd madwifi-ng-r1531-20060427
make
sudo make install
</pre>

It will prompt you to remove the old drivers from the ubuntu packages. You should answer "r". Make sure that the script installed the files to the right directory (should be something like /lib/modules/2.6.15-22-386, depending on the output of "uname -r"). Also make sure that there is only one version of ath_pci.ko ("find /lib/modules/2.6.15-22-386 -iname ath_pci*", or similar should tell you that).
 
Then install the provided debs:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i dhcdbd_1.10-0ubuntu12_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i wpasupplicant-madwifi-hack.deb
</pre>

Uninstall the old supplicant
<pre>
sudo apt-get remove wpasupplicant
</pre>
 
Install network-manager and network-manager-gnome if you haven't already:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install network-manager network-manager-gnome
</pre>

Reboot once (or replug your network card and reload the drivers) and you should be up and running networkmanager (start nm-applet if the tray icon is missing)
 
=== Troubleshooting ===
Add your problems here, and I will try to resolve them.

Some more information on the subject:

NetworkManager

<nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Driver-Madwifi]]</nowiki>

Have fun!

----
CategoryNetwork CategoryWireless
