{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Troubleshooting Wireless Networks with Ubuntu ==

=== Introduction ===
This guide aims to help in troubleshooting wireless networks on Ubuntu. Before undertaking the steps in this guide, try the recommendations in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/|Offical Ubuntu Documentation]]</nowiki> for your version of Ubuntu.

=== Quick Check ===
# With your computer turned off, insert your wireless adapter into a suitable port/slot.
# Turn on your computer and log-in if/when prompted.
# Open a terminal window and enter the following command:
 <pre>
nmcli
 </pre>
# This program will output the information Network Manager has collected about your card, much of which will assist in setting-up wireless networking .
# If the output contains:
 <pre>
State: connected
 </pre>
 (and you are not on a wired connection) then your wireless adpater is working and connected to a network.
1. Left-click on the panel applet (four vertical bars in 9.10 or older; 4 concentric arcs in 10.04). If you can see wireless networks, then your wireless works; you need to connect to a network. See below on network connection.

=== Troubleshooting Steps ===

Troubleshooting wireless networks in Ubuntu can be approached in three steps in order:
# Check that your wireless adapter is enabled and that Ubuntu recognizes it: see <nowiki>[[Devices|Device Recognition and Operation]]</nowiki>.
# Check if drivers are available for your wireless adapter; install them and check them: see <nowiki>[[Drivers|Device Drivers]]</nowiki>.
# Check your connection to the Internet: see <nowiki>[[Connections|Wireless Connections]]</nowiki>.
# Check if your wireless device is disabled by hardware switch or in BIOS; if the terminal command <code>rfkill list</code> shows "Hard blocked: yes", you may need to turn a physical switch on your laptop, or to enable your wireless device during the boot process.
# If it still does not work, ask a question at Launchpad, Ubuntu's official help: <nowiki>[[WirelessAskQuestionAtLaunchpad|instructions]]</nowiki>.

=== Reference ===
* <nowiki>[[Commands|Commands]]</nowiki> - a comprehensive list of commands, with explanations, for troubleshooting your wireless connection
* <nowiki>[[ConfigFiles|Wireless Configuration Files]]</nowiki> - A list of the configuration files used in Ubuntu for configuring wireless networks.

=== External Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://oob.freeshell.org/nzwireless/LWAP-HOWTO.html|Linux Wireless Access Point HOWTO]]</nowiki> - A guide from June 2003 by Simon Anderson
* <nowiki>[[http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Jean_Tourrilhes/Linux/|Wireless linux resources]]</nowiki> - A links page with many resources.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/NET3-4-HOWTO.html/|tldp Linux networking howto]]</nowiki> - The Linux Networking !HowTo from The Linux Documentation project.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.us.debian.org/doc/manuals/reference/ch05.en.html|Debian Network Configuration]]</nowiki> - From the Debian Reference v2
* <nowiki>[[http://users.linpro.no/janl/hardware/wifi.html|Survey of Linux and Wifi]]</nowiki> - Last updated 24th April 2006.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WirelessTroubleshootingProcedure|Wireless troubleshooting procedure]]</nowiki> 

----
CategoryNetworking CategoryWireless
