{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Airlink101 AWLL3026 wireless USB adapter ===

New kernels in Ubuntu versions after Dapper 6.06 now have the appropriate driver (''zd1211rw'') included for this device. However, there are some reports that this driver may not work correctly. As an alternative and for kernel versions prior to 2.6.18 (Dapper 6.06 and earlier Ubuntu releases) use the community driver zd1211 rev 85 or newer:
<pre>
</pre>

Extract and compile the new modules (they will also get copied and registered):
<pre>
</pre>
This will create ''zd1211'' and ''zd1211b'' drivers for the different chip revision numbers used in AWLL3026.

Plug in the AWLL3026 USB. The module should load automagically and the ''wlan0'' interface should now be accessible:
<pre>
</pre>

For WPA protected network, generate your hex key (PSK):
<pre>
</pre>

Create wpa_supplicant.conf:
<pre>
</pre>

Add:
<pre>
ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
ctrl_interface_group=0

eapol_version=1
ap_scan=2
fast_reauth=1

network={
        ssid="yourAP"
##### scan_ssid needed if your access point uses a hidden ssid
        scan_ssid=1
##### proto=WPA (WPA), =RSN (WPA2)
        proto=RSN
##### key_mgmt=WPA-PSK, WPA-EAP
        key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
##### pairwise/group=CCMP (AES), TKIP
        pairwise=CCMP
        group=CCMP
        psk=yourhexkeyfromwpa_passphrase
}
</pre>

Protect the file:
<pre>
</pre>

Test the new setup:
<pre>
</pre>

It should authenticate. Check the status:
<pre>

Selected interface 'wlan0'
bssid=00:00:00:00:00:00
ssid=yourAP
pairwise_cipher=CCMP
group_cipher=CCMP
key_mgmt=WPA2-PSK
wpa_state=COMPLETED
</pre>

If you get an IP address via DHCP:
<pre>
</pre>

Or, if you use static IP:
<pre>
</pre>
At this point the connection should be made.

To automate the process, edit interfaces:
<pre>
</pre>

Add:
<pre>
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
##### WPA via wpa_supplicant
        pre-up wpa_supplicant -Bw -D wext -i wlan0 -c /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf
        post-down killall -q wpa_supplicant
</pre>

At any time, to manually connect:
<pre>
</pre>

To disconnect:
<pre>
</pre>
----
CategoryHardware
