{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Realtek 8180L is a very common chip set found in many devices (eg. Acer Aspire 1356LCi laptop). It is identified with '''lspci''' command as

<pre>
00:09.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8180L 802.11b MAC (rev 20)
</pre>

In Ubuntu 6.10 (''Edgy Eft'') it is supported out of the box with a open-source driver. This driver supports unencrypted networks and WEP protected networks. However it looks like more advanced encryption (like WPA) is not available with open-source driver (see <nowiki>[[http://www.archivesat.com/Ubuntu_user_technical_support/thread2369270.htm|this]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/alt.atheism/browse_frm/thread/d80ee719b0aae783/dc7b26f2d3183af8?lnk=st&q=ieee80211_rtl+wpa&rnum=1&hl=en#dc7b26f2d3183af8|this]]</nowiki>).

However it is possible to install binary driver from Realtek with help of ndiswrapper and thus have access to more advanced encryption.

Steps for instalation:

1.  Install following packages: ndiswrapper-common ndiswrapper-utils-1.8 ndisgtk wpasupplicant network-manager network-manager-gnome.

1. Find a binary driver for Windows 98 Second Edition on <nowiki>[[http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=26&PFid=5&Level=6&Conn=5&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true|Realtek]]</nowiki> site and download it (<nowiki>[[ftp:--202.65.194.211-cn-wlan-ndis5x-8180(173).zip|direct link]]</nowiki>).

1. Unpack downloaded zip file to /opt (root privileges might be required).

1. Disable open-source driver (it will conflict with closed source). Open /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file with text editor (eg. with gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist). Then add the following two lines to the end of the list:
<pre>
blacklist r818x
blacklist ieee80211_rtl 
</pre>

1. Go to System->Adminsitration->Windows Wireless Drivers and install downloaded driver. More about installing ndiswrapper <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper|here]]</nowiki>

1. Use <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/NetworkManager|Network Manager]]</nowiki> to configure access to your WPA protected network.
