{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
  The device has been tested with WEP (WPA mode not currently supported), using a FRITZ!Box Fon WLAN 7050 (UI), Firmware-Version 14.04.01 as AP and is currently transmitting this page on a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsSony|Sony Vaio PCG-SRX51P]]</nowiki> Notebook with D-Link PCMCIA USB 2.0 Adapter. If you need more help, please look to the WifiDocs page for more support channels or check 
http://www.avm.de/de/index.php3?Produkte/FRITZBox/FRITZ_WLAN_USB_Stick for details as well as  
<pre>
~$ man interfaces</pre>
  for configuration options.

 
== Device Info ==
** Manufacture: '''AVM GmbH'''
** Model: '''Fritz!WLAN USB Stick'''
** Revision: '''None visible'''
** Device Type: '''USB'''
** Chipset : '''Texas Instruments TNETW1450'''

=== Dapper 6.06 (Kernel 2.6.15-19-386) ===

==== Did it configure during install? ====

   '''NO'''

==== Did it work by just configuring network settings after install (out of box)? ====

   '''NO'''

==== What driver did you use and ease of set up? ====
   ftp://ftp.avm.de/cardware/fritzwlanusb.stick/linux/suse.10.0/fwlanusb-suse10.0-0.09.00-beta.tar.gz

Please make sure you have the appropriate Kernel-Headers and GCC in place.

Download the tarball to the current directory and unpack
<pre>
~$ wget ftp://ftp.avm.de/cardware/fritzwlanusb.stick/linux/suse.10.0/\
> fwlanusb-suse10.0-0.09.00-beta.tar.gz
~$ tar -xvf fwlanusb-suse10.0-0.09.00-beta.tar.gz</pre>

For Kernels > 6.13 ( Dapper '''NOT''' Breezy) edit fritz/src/buffers.c '''( do you need a backup copy ? )'''

<pre>
gedit fritz/src/buffers.c</pre>
comment out line 203 ( '''//''' pool->ubf[ix].urb->transfer_flags |= URB_ASYNC_UNLINK;) as the symbol is no longer available and save.

Go into the source directory and compile 

<pre>
~$ cd fritz/src
~$ sudo make</pre>

Copy the new driver to its proper place

<pre>
~$ sudo mkdir -p /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/net/fritz
~$ sudo cp fwlanusb.ko /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/usb/net/fritz</pre>

Register and load the new driver

<pre>
~$ sudo depmod -a
~$ sudo modprobe fwlanusb</pre>

Configure '''WLAN0''' either via Network Settings or by editing
"/etc/network/interfaces" '''( do you need a backup copy ?? )'''
<pre>
~$ gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces</pre>

and add the following for WEP with DHCP
<pre>
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid myapname
wireless-key s:myplaintextpassword
auto wlan0</pre>

Save the file, insert the WLAN USB Stick and  issue 

<pre>
~$ sudo ifup wlan0</pre>

The Network connection will be made. If not, issue
<pre>
~$ sudo dhclient wlan0</pre>

Repeat a few times with pauses if necessary. 

Ignore the message "5 bad IP checksums seen in 5 packets" if its spurious.

==== Comments, tips, or other set up help... ====

To install basic compile support
<pre>
~$ sudo apt-get install build-essential gcc-3.4</pre>

For information on Kernel setup see

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelHowto?highlight=%28kernelhowto%29
----
CategoryHardware CategoryNetworking CategoryWireless
