{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Before you Begin ==
* This requires Ndiswrapper
* This only works for a 32-bit system. If you successfully install this on a 64-bit system, please edit this article
* The "Quick Install" requires an internet connection.

== Quick Install (Requires Internet Connection) ==

<pre>
mkdir ~/wusb54gsdrivers
cd ~/wusb54gsdrivers
wget http://belkin.httpsvc.vitalstreamcdn.com/belkin_vitalstream_com/support/dl/f5d7051.exe
unzip f5d7051.exe
sudo ndiswrapper -i BCMRNDIS.INF
sudo cp USB8023K.sys /etc/ndiswrapper/bcmrndis/usb8023k.sys
sudo cp RNDISMPK.SYS /etc/ndiswrapper/bcmrndis/rndismpk.sys
sudo depmod -a
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
sudo ndiswrapper -m</pre>

Next, do the following command:

'''Version 1:'''<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -d 13b1:000e bcmrndis
</pre>

'''Version 2 Adapter:'''<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -d 13b1:0014 bcmrndis
</pre>

Now type:<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>

If you do not see <code>ndiswrapper</code> at the end of the file, add it to the end.

Now restart, and you should be good to go.

== Notes ==
If you need to install ndiswrapper, visit the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper|Ndiswrapper Guide]]</nowiki>

== User results ==

I used this technique on my Ubuntu 8.04 32 bit with a V.2 adapter & it worked perfectly, Thanks!

I also followed this procedure on Kubuntu 8.10 64-bit with a v.1 adapter and it worked!  The only thing is that the signal strength is pretty weak compared to the same card on Windows.
