{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Topcom Skyracer USB 4001g (WLAN-USB-Stick) ==
* USB: USB 2.0
* Encryption types: 128bit WEP;64bit WEP;WPA-PSK
* WLAN: IEEE 802.11b;IEEE 802.11g
* Max. bandwidth: 54Mbps

=== Installation ===
1. Check if zd1201 module is already loaded by typing the following command in a terminal:<pre>
sudo lsmod | grep zd1201
</pre>Output should be something like:<pre>
zd1201                 22660  0
usbcore               130692  4 zd1201,ehci_hcd,uhci_hcd</pre>If the output is empty you have to load the module by the following: type <code>uname -r</code>, the output shows your kernel version. Now you have to edit (<code>sudo gedit <filename></code> or some editor of your choice as root) the following three files:<pre>
/lib/modules/VERSION_OUTPUT_OF_COMMAND_ABOVE/modules.alias
/lib/modules/VERSION_OUTPUT_OF_COMMAND_ABOVE/modules.dep
/lib/modules/VERSION_OUTPUT_OF_COMMAND_ABOVE/modules.usbmap</pre>Replace ''VERSION_OUTPUT_OF_COMMAND_ABOVE'' with the output of the <code>uname -r</code> command. In your editor add<pre>
zd1201
</pre>at the bottom of the file, if the phrase isn't in there yet.
# Now download the 1201 Firmware from <nowiki>[[http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/linux-lc100020/|Sourceforge.net]]</nowiki>, unpack (<code>tar -xzvf</code>) zd1201-<version>-fw.tar.gz to <code>/tmp</code> and change working directory via <code>cd /tmp/zd1201-<version>-fw</code>.
# Last but not least you have to copy the firmware files to <code>/lib/firmware</code> by<pre>
sudo cp -p -f zd1201*.fw /lib/firmware
</pre>Now plugin your WLAn adapter. <code>iwconfig</code> should list the adapter in it's output.
