{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

For users using Ubuntu 8.04 and a ipn2220 based wireless card wishing to use the networkmanager.

== Overview Of The Setup Process ==

'''Step 1:'''
Collecting and downloading required software. 

'''Step 2:'''
Setting up software to run on your system

'''Step 3:'''
Configuring ndiswrapper

'''Step 4:'''
Restarting the system

'''Step 5:'''
Setting up your network with Network-Manager

'''Notes'''

If you are using a hidden network, network manager will not be able to store your information.
This means when you restart you computer you will have to re-input your network details.

== Whats Required ==
The following software is required for using your wireless card.
      '''build-essential'''

      '''ndiswrapper'''

      '''windows driver file''' This includes the '''neti2220.inf''' and '''12220ntx.sys''' files

== Installing ==
=== Step 1: Installing Build-essentials ===
What you need to do is install the build-essential package. This will be used to compile ndiswrapper.

Open up a terminal ''Applications>accessories>terminal ''
<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential
</pre>
And then press 'y'.

=== Getting Ndiswrapper and installing ===
Go to the Ndiswrapper homepage and download the latest version at

http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/joomla/

Extract the Ndiswrapper package to your desktop.

Open up a terminal ''Applications>accessories>terminal'' and input the following command:
<pre>
cd Desktop
</pre>
and
<pre>
cd ndiswrapper-1.53
</pre>
''Note, you might need to change the version number''

Now we need to make sure there is no other version installed, so in the '''same''' terminal type
<pre>
sudo make uninstall
</pre>

Now you can type in
<pre>
sudo make
</pre>
And then you can
<pre>
sudo make install
</pre>
and finally
<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -m
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
</pre>

You have just compiled and installed ndiswrapper on your Ubuntu

=== Setting up Ndiswrapper ===
Open up a terminal ''Applications>accessories>terminal ''
and change directory to where your neti2220.inf file is located (if it is placed on the desktop do the following)
<pre>
cd Desktop
</pre>
Now run
<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -i neti2220.inf
</pre>
'''Now''' restart your computer
=== Setting Up A Network With Network-Manager ===
When you log into Ubuntu you will see the network-manager icon in the upper left corner ''(if you have the default setup)''
Left click on the icon and you will see the available wireless networks.

If you have a hidden network then click
''Connect to Other Wireless Network...''
and fill in the details as required.
----
HardwareDocumentation
----
CategoryHardware CategoryHardware
