{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Inserisci una descrizione per WifiDocs/Device/EdimaxEW7128UG.

== Introduction ==
The Edimax EW7318Ug uses a ralink rt73 chipset. The driver is available from manufacturer site or via http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com.
Trying to use serialmonkey driver included in ubuntu 7.04 kernel in some cases may freeze the system. So i suggest to use the latest driver from
ralink site.
The problem is that in ubuntu if there is the driver in /lib/modules, when you attach the usb device, the system tryes to use the serialmonkey driver present in the directories /lib/modules/{your kernel version}/kernel/ubuntu/wireless/rt2*. To disable this driver i deleted this directory and updated the driver list, with depmod -a.

== Installation ==
=== Disable kernel module ===
==== Module compiled as module ====
delete the .ko modules and run depmod -a
==== Module compiled into the kernel ====
use install rt2x00 /bin/true directive in one of the modprobe config files
==== Module not compiled ====
do nothing.

=== Download the latest driver ===
TODO

=== Enter Module directory and compile ===
TODO

=== Copyng module in lib/modules and depmoding it ===
TODO

=== Configuration files ===
TODO

=== Configure rt73sta.dat ===
TODO

=== Configure interface rausb0 in /etc/network/interfaces ===
Configure the interface rausb0 (or rausb#) as a normal ethernet device (the wireless parameter are in /etc/wireless/.../rt73sta.dat), for example add the following line to /etc/network/interfaces if you want to use dhcp:
<pre>
auto rausb0
iface rausb0 inet dhcp
</pre>

=== Restart the driver and the network ===
<pre>
/etc/init.d/networking stop
rmmod rt73
modprobe rt73
/etc/init.d/networking start
</pre>
Remember that if the interface is up the rmmod rt73, say that the module is in use, so you must stop networking or `ip link set rausb0 down`.

=== Automatic loading at startup ===
append
<pre>
rt73
</pre>
at the end of /etc/modules

== Notes ==
This configuration uses the file rt73sta.dat to configure all the wireless parameters (encryption type, password, ...) at the startup of the driver and create a network interface similar to an ethernet device, so there is no need of wpa_supplicant. If you want to use wpa_supplicant, you must compile the code present in the package in the directory Wpa_Supplicant-X.X.X.
