{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Broadcom Corporation Dell Wireless 1390 ==

Broadcom Corporation Dell Wireless 1390 WLAN Mini-PCI Card is used in "Dell Inspiron 1501"

=== How To find out if you're using Wireless 1390 ===

In a terminal, type `lspci `, which lists the PCI devices in your system.  The output might include something like
<pre>
05:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation Dell Wireless 1390 WLAN Mini-PCI Card (rev 01)
</pre>
in which case you've got a 1390. You can find out a bit more information about the driver by typing `lspci -n`, which in my case includes the line
<pre>
05:00.0 0280: 14e4:4311 (rev 01)
</pre>

=== How To install Wireless 1390 driver to Feisty & Edgy ===

Get rid of the old ndiswrapper and bcm43xx driver,then restart your computer.
<pre>
$sudo rmmod ndiswrapper
$sudo apt-get remove ndiswrapper-utils
$sudo su
$sudo echo blacklist bcm43xx >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
$sudo shutdown -r now
</pre>

Get the latest version of ndiswrapper
<pre>
$wget http://nchc.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/ndiswrapper/ndiswrapper-1.42.tar.gz
</pre>

Create a driver directory like "~/.driver", and move ndiswrapper to it.
Install new ndiswrapper.
<pre>
$sudo apt-get update
$sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`
$cd ~/.driver
$tar -zxvf ndiswrapper-1.42.tar.gz
$cd ndiswrapper-1.42
$sudo make uninstall
$make
$sudo make install
</pre>

Create wifi directory like "~/.driver/wifi",then get R140747.EXE from dell.com
<pre>
"$wget http://ftp.us.dell.com/network/R140747.EXE"
</pre>
Or you can pick up the r129832.EXE file from Dell driver disc,and unzip the file.
<pre>
$cd ~/.driver/wifi
$unzip -a r129832.EXE      # or $unzip -a R140747.EXE
</pre>

Install the driver and restart again.
<pre>
$sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/.driver/wifi/DRIVER/bcmwl5.inf
$sudo ndiswrapper -l
$sudo ndiswrapper -m
$sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
$sudo shutdown -r now
</pre>

You're all set! Try running this to see if your wireless card is functioning properly:
<pre>
$sudo iwlist scanning
</pre>
You may get the information like this:
<pre>
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth1      Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 00:13:46:CE:F7:02
                    ESSID:"lab2"
                    Protocol:IEEE 802.11g
                    Mode:Managed
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality:76/100  Signal level:-47 dBm  Noise level:-96 dBm
                    Encryption key:off
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              11 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:bcn_int=100
                    Extra:atim=0
</pre>
=== References ===
[1]http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com/2007/01/fixing-wifi-on-dell-1501.html
----
CategoryHardware
