{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
  This page gives general information on the device and user notes about their experience setting it up. If you need more help, please look to the WifiDocs page for more support channels.
 
== Device Info ==
** Manufacturer: D-Link
** Model #: DWL-122
** Revision: A1
** Device Type: USB
** Chipset:
  <pre>
ID 2001:3700 D-Link Corp. [hex] DWL-122 802.11b
nic h/w: id=0x8026 1.0.0
  </pre>
  
** Vendor/Device #: 2001:3700
** Vendor Link: ftp://ftp.dlink.com/Wireless/dwl122/

=== User Notes ===

==== What Ubuntu release are you using? ====

1. 6.06
2. 7.10 (alternate install CD)
3. 7.10 (alternate install CD)
4. 7.10
5. 8.04 rc
6. 8.10
7. 9.04

==== Did it configure during install? ====

1. No
2. No
3. No
4. No
5. No
6. Yes
7. Yes

==== Did it work by just configuring network settings after install (out of box)? ====

1. No
2. No
3. No
4. No
5. No
6. Yes
7. Yes

==== What driver did you use and ease of set up? ====

1. linux-wlan-ng package (prism2_usb kernel driver module)
2. I had to install the linux-wlan-ng package from the CD. The wireless network must be
**** unprotected, or
**** protected with WEP with a 64 bit key. In the case of WEP, the wireless access point must be configured to enable WEP wireless security.
   There is a small inconvenience. After every reboot, I have to use "Connect to Other Wireless Network". The dialog "Network Settings" does not work.

3.#3 Ndiswrapper. My wireless network is protected with WPA-PSK (TKIP). My steps:

*** I pulled out the device DWL-122 from the USB port of my computer.

*** edited the file /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist : added line:

     blacklist prism2_usb

*** (Do not know if necessary):

     sudo modprobe -r prism2_usb

*** I used ndisgtk. I chose the file NETPRISM.inf from

     ftp://ftp.dlink.com/Wireless/dwl122/Driver/dwl122_driver_102.zip

*** I restarted my computer.

*** only after the restart of the system I plugged-in the device DWL-122 to a USB port

*** (Do not know if necessary): In the dialog "Network Settings", I switched-on the checkbox of the Wireless Connection.

*** In the dialog "Network Settings", in the Properties of the Wireless Connection, I set "WPA Personal", the password, and DHCP.

*** Note: before each new booting of Ubuntu I have to unplug the device.

4. I had to install the linux-wlan-ng package and run "wlanctl-ng wlan0 lnxreq_ifstate ifstate=enable" every time I plug in the usb adapter. After running that command it works in network manager. Before running that command, iwconfig showed wlan0 as having no wireless extensions, and `ip addr` would report that the device wlan0 did not exist.

5. See #3 except I didn't edit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, and Don't need to unplug before boot
6. NA
7. Worked out-of-box

==== If you used ndiswrapper and pulled driver from the internet, where? ====

1. NO INPUT
2. NO INPUT
3. See above.
4. NO INPUT
5. See #3
6. NA
7. NA

==== Comments, tips, or other set up help... ====

1. COMMENTS
*** Works fine with the prism2_usb driver, see <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Driver-prism2_usb]]</nowiki> for more information.
*** The same chipset is used in <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Device-NetgearMA111]]</nowiki>
2. NO INPUT
3. Links:
*** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper
*** List of cards supported by Ndiswrapper with notes about DWL-122: http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/joomla/index.php?/component/option,com_openwiki/Itemid,33/id,list/
4. See http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-4041.html

----
CategoryHardware CategoryNetworking CategoryWireless
