{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


These are instructions to install the Buffalo WLI-USB-L11G under Ubuntu Breezy 5.10 + Hoary 5.04. I assume you have installed the kernel and have booted into it. You will need some packages from the internet so you have to find out a way to get them.

1. Download the driver from http://folk.uio.no/oeysteio/orinoco-usb/RPMS/orinoco-usb-0.2.2-2_generic.src.rpm 
2. Install the necessary packages for kernel module compilation with<pre>
apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`  
</pre>
3. Open the rpm with some application like FileRoller or if that doesn't work with unp:<pre>
sudo apt-get install rpm unp
unp orinoco-usb-0.2.2-2_generic.src.rpm
</pre>
4. Unpack the archive to some handy location:<pre>
tar jvxf orinoco-0.2.2.tar.bz2
</pre>
5. Go into the new directory<pre>
cd orinoco-0.2.2</pre> and run <pre>
make && sudo make install
</pre>
6. If there was no error message, you are done. Hotplug should load the module at the next startup. Alternatively, you can load the module by hand with <pre>
modprobe orinoco_usb
</pre>If you get an error at this point, you may need to unload the old module first<pre>
rmmod orinoco hermes
</pre>and try to load it again.
----
CategoryHardware CategoryNetworking CategoryWireless
