{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:25%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Linksys WUSB600N ==
Linksys WUSB600N USB 802.11n (draft) wireless network interface has a driver in the current kernel, but there is a version of the nic that does not work with those drivers. The problem is outlined in the bug report <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/408165|408165]]</nowiki>.

The problem exists with a specific version labeled WUSB600Nv2. This version has a different chip from the previous version, which makes the currently included driver incompatible with it. It is possible, however, to compile a working driver. The following instructions are a rewrite of the comment <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/408165/comments/60|60]]</nowiki> in the bug conversation. These instructions have been confirmed as working by several people.

The instructions below do not work on Natty/11.04. However, the driver and instructions supplied on comment <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/408165/comments/85|85]]</nowiki> does appear to work, although it's still very unstable. The 2.5.0.0 version on the RaLink website causes kernel oopses.

== Identification ==
These instructions are specific to Linksys WUSB600Nv2. You can identify whether you have this nic by executing
<pre>
lsusb |grep 1737:0079
</pre> 
in a terminal window. If you get a line like
<pre>
Bus 001 Device 009: ID 1737:0079 Linksys
</pre>
you have a WUSB600Nv2, and these instructions should apply to it.

== Driver ==
Download the driver RT3572USB from the <nowiki>[[http://www.ralink.com.tw/support.php?s=2|Ralink web page]]</nowiki>. The file name at the time of writing this was 2009_1222_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2[1].3.0.0.tar.bz2

Unpack the file
<pre>
tar xjf 2009_1222_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2[1].3.0.0.tar.bz2
</pre>
and change to the directory 2009_1214_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2.3.0.0
<pre>
cd 2009_1214_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2.3.0.0
</pre>

Edit the file 2009_1214_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2.3.0.0/os/linux/config.mk
<pre>
gedit os/linux/config.mk
</pre>
and make sure the following settings are set to value "y" (change the values where needed)

* HAS_WPA_SUPPLICANT
* HAS_NATIVE_WPA_SUPPLICANT_SUPPORT
* HAS_QOS_DLS_SUPPORT
* HAS_DOT11N_DRAFT3_SUPPORT
* HAS_DOT11_N_SUPPORT
* HAS_STATS_COUNT

Save the changes you made and exit gedit.

Now edit the file common/rtusb_dev_id.c
<pre>
gedit common/rtusb_dev_id.c
</pre>
and locate the following section:
<pre>
 {USB_DEVICE(0x148F,0x3572)}, /* Ralink 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1740,0x9801)}, /* EnGenius 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x0DF6,0x0041)}, /* Sitecom 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x0DF6,0x0042)},
 {USB_DEVICE(0x04BB,0x0944)}, /* I-O DATA 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1690,0x0740)}, /* 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1690,0x0744)}, /* 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x5A57,0x0284)}, /* Zinwell 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x167B,0x4001)}, /* 3572 */
</pre>
Add WUSB600Nv2 to this section by changing it to:
<pre>
 {USB_DEVICE(0x148F,0x3572)}, /* Ralink 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1740,0x9801)}, /* EnGenius 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x0DF6,0x0041)}, /* Sitecom 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x0DF6,0x0042)},
 {USB_DEVICE(0x04BB,0x0944)}, /* I-O DATA 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1690,0x0740)}, /* 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1690,0x0744)}, /* 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x5A57,0x0284)}, /* Zinwell 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x167B,0x4001)}, /* 3572 */
 {USB_DEVICE(0x1737,0x0079)}, /* WUSB600Nv2 */
</pre>
NOTE:  One user could not get his device to work by putting this line in the RT35xx section.  Instead, placing the {USB_DEVICE(0x1737,0x0079)},  line at the end of the RT2870 section worked.  If these steps do not work, try again with placing this line in the RT2870 section. 

Save the changes you made and exit gedit.

Now compile the driver by running
<pre>
make
</pre>
and install it (you need superuser privileges) by running
<pre>
sudo make install
</pre>

Connect (or reconnect) your WUSB600Nv2 to your computer, and it should light up. You can confirm it is working with the command
<pre>
iwlist
</pre>
Look for an entry labeled "ra0".

== Loading at boot ==
You can load the newly installed drivers at boot by editing the file /etc/modules
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>
Append the line
<pre>
rt3572sta
</pre>
to the end of the file. Save and exit.

== Notes ==
Some users have reported problems connecting to networks with a hidden ESSID. If you can not get a connection, try setting your network's ESSID to visible.

https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/408165/comments/85 - The attached package in this bug report worked for me, though I did have to reboot afterwards.

To get it working in Natty/11.04, you must blacklist the rt2800 modules:
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
</pre>
Append the lines
<pre>
blacklist rt2800
blacklist rt2800usb
</pre>
to the end of the file. After that (+restart), the network manager recognises the device properly
