{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The Belkin F5D7010 is listed as an RT2500 compatable card, and should be automatically detected and installed by Breezy. If for some reason it is not, and the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/RalinkRT2500 '''How To Setup Wireless Cards Based on the RT2500 Chipset''' does not help you, then this is another approach that works. Also, if your F5D7010 card is version 7 (or 7000, same thing), this is the best approach to get it working also in Fiesty.

  [Download the driver to use from http://downloads.emachines.com/network/Broadcom_80211g_3_20_23_0.zip]

Unfortunately, this download link no longer functions because the file has been removed; however, these files still exist in the internet archive and can be downloaded here: http://web.archive.org/web/20060813151852/http://downloads.emachines.com/network/Broadcom_80211g_3_20_23_0.zip

  Unzip these files to the directory of your choice.

  Open a console and type:
  <pre>
  sudo apt-get install ndisgtk
  </pre>
  to install the graphical ndiswrapper utility.

  Then type 
  <pre>
  sudo ndisgtk 
  </pre>
  to run the graphical ndiswrapper utility.

  Click "Install New Driver", then the open folder icon where it says None in the location drop down menu. Navigate to the directory you unzipped the driver files to and select the "bcmwl5.inf" driver. Click "Open", then click "Install"
 
  In a few moments, the ndiswrapper utility will display "bcmwl5 Hardware present: Yes" and the lights will come on on the wireless card. If it does not, then double check that the card is completely plugged into the slot, and try redownloading the driver file to make sure you do not have a corrupt download. If it still does not work, consult a linux-experienced friend.

  Once the card is listed as installed, click "bcmwl5" to select it, then click the "Configure Network" to bring up the computer's network settings. Click wireless connection, then click activate. Select the network name to connect to and enter a WEP key if necessary. Set your IP if it is static, or change it to DHCP if you have your IP automatically assigned. Click ok, then ok again to apply the settings and close the network settings window. Close the ndiswrapper uitility and exit the terminal window. Your card should now be completely functional.

  For more information see <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Driver-Ndiswrapper]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryLaptop CategoryNetworking
