{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

D-Link WUA-2340  For version 7.0.4 you'll want to follow the below instructions:
These will also work for the WDA-2320 as well, you'll want the driver set for it instead though.

1. Install the O/S,
2. Download the updates,
3. Install ndiswrapper using add/remove,
4. Use the instructions here: https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/...ml#ndiswrapper modifying the first instruction, to point to the folder that you put the drivers in. I reccommend just grabbing the updated drivers from D-Link's site, version 1.01, and extracting them to get the files on a windows machine first, then save those files in a folder on your desktop, I chose "drivers". So my first line read
<pre>
sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Desktop/drivers/NetA5AGU.inf
</pre>
and the rest just worked afterwards.
5. Once finished with that, reboot.  It should find the device, click on the network and add your network in, add the WPA-PSK2 encryption in, and it should log into your network. When asked for the key-ring password, put in the same password used for your account log-in, you'll find out why below.
6.  Finally finish up by following the instructions here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wi...34115395c7d904 to fix it so you didn't have to worry about the network not being able to start when logging in. This helps because you don't need to know the network access key to log into it each time you restart the computer.

Basically all you do is download the preconfigured file, then edit it with:
<pre>
gksudo gedit gdm
</pre>
to match:

<pre>
auth    requisite       pam_nologin.so
auth    required        pam_env.so
@include common-auth
@include common-account
session required        pam_limits.so
@include common-session
@include common-password
auth optional pam_keyring.so try_first_pass
session optional pam_keyring.so
</pre>
