{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is my experience with the DWA-552, aka D-Link Xtreme N Desktop Adapter

== Intrepid Ibex (8.10) ==
Works... But Causes 64bit and 32bit to experience freezing up completely. Use ndiswrapper method below to fix in 32bit, the fix for 64bit is unknown.

== Hardy Heron (8.04) ==
=== Madwifi ===
Phail.
I tried this guide for madwifi: http://www.ubuntu-forum.com/showthread.php?t=718244
It doesn't work.

=== Ndiswrapper ===
Ndiswrapper seems to work (albeit, not very well.  See Intrepid).  Get the drivers here: http://www.dlink.com/products/support.asp?pid=531   

For reference, I'll post the directions I have on using ndiswrapper:

First check to make sure ACX is not installed

<code> lsmod | grep ACX </code>
 If you get output, then you will have to find a different guide for help.  This guide assumes you get no output.

===== Install the drivers =====
<code> sudo ndiswrapper -i /location_of_your_wireless_driver/netathw.inf </code>

Make sure to choose the driver without the x.  The x is for windows 98.  I suspect that the drivers for windows 2000/XP are better.

<code> sudo ndiswrapper -l </code>

<code> sudo modprobe ndiswrapper </code>

===== Set ndiswrapper to load on startup =====

<code> sudo ndiswrapper -m </code>

<code> gksudo gedit /etc/modules </code>

Add the following module to the list 

<code> ndiswrapper </code>

Now you can configure your wireless card with `ip` and `iwconfig`.
