{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For Ubuntu 10.04 LTS AMD64 - the native rt2870sta driver will handle most wireless n usb adapters including Belkin F5D8053. Make sure you add rt2870sta at the end of the /etc/modules file

Open in terminal: 'sudo gedit /etc/modules' then add the line:

rt2870sta

then save the file and reboot.

There is no need to install the belkin windows driver using wine1.2 and ndiswrapper, nor should you blacklist any native usb drivers. I would assume this solution will also apply to i386 Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Describe WifiDocs/Device/Belkin F5D8053 here.

Guide to getting Belkin F5D8053 Wireless N USB Adapter to work in Ubuntu as described on http://blog.vaxius.net/?p=45

Copied from "Sean's Blog" @ http://blog.vaxius.net/ :

Using Belkin N Wireless USB Adapter with Ubuntu
I picked up a wireless N router and adapter a while ago–both from Belkin–and decided to get them working with Ubuntu.  This is how I got it to work.

Get the driver
Step number one is to download <nowiki>[[http://www.belkin.com/support/article/?lid=en&pid=f5d8053&aid=8343&scid=942&fid=3947&fn=f5d8053v3_ww_02.0.0.04_w2.exe|the driver from Belkin’s website.]]</nowiki>

Extract the driver files
The download from Belkin results in an executable from which the necessary driver files cannot be extracted using cabextract. To get at them, you need to actually run the install program using wine, so install wine first.
$ sudo apt-get install wine

Now you need to go to the directory where you downloaded the drivers and run it.
$ wine f5d8053v3_ww_02.0.0.04_w2.exe

Afterwards, the relevant files will be found inside your .wine directory, but I’ll get back to that later. First you need to install something that will let you use a Windows driver.

Make your Windows driver speak Linux
You now have a driver designed to control your wireless adapter, but it was also designed to run exclusively on Windows. This calls for ndiswrapper, whose job is to act as translator for the Windows driver and Linux system. As far as Belkin’s driver is concerned, it’s running on a Windows system. Note that you can also use ndisgtk–a graphical version of ndiswrapper–for this purpose.
$ sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper

Now we’ll go into the directory that the setup program created in wine.
$ cd ~/.wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/Belkin/F5D8053/XP2K

Now it’s time to wrap up the driver and load it up.

$ sudo ndiswrapper -i rt2870.inf
$ sudo ndiswrapper -m
$ sudo depmod -a
$ sudo modprobe ndiswrapper

In a few moments, it should show up in the Network Manager applet, where you can now connect to your network using you Belkin N Wireless USB Adapter.

Note: Network Manager will probably not show the correct speed you’re connected at, but transfer a file over the network with your new adapter and you’ll see that it’s definitely going at N-wireless speeds.
