{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Wireless Networking Central ==
Recent versions of Ubuntu like Ubuntu 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat) and Ubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal) support most wireless cards. On the following pages you will find lots of help to get your wireless card to work.

=== Getting Started ===
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessCardsSupported | Wireless Cards Supported]]</nowiki>: A list of user reports about wireless adapters and their functionality. This page may be able to show you if other users have successfully installed their hardware.
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessNetworking | Getting Started with Wireless Networking]]</nowiki>: A guide to configuring Ubuntu for connection to a wireless network.
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WiFiHowTo | The Ubuntu WiFi How-To]]</nowiki>: '''VERY Technically Oriented'''
* <nowiki>[[NetworkAdmin | Using Network Administrator]]</nowiki>: A alternative panel applet for connecting and configuring wireless networks.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkManager0.7 | Network Manager 0.7]]</nowiki>: Using Network Manager to configure Networks for Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex) and newer.

=== Connections ===
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-ShareEthernetConnectionThroughWireless | Sharing Ethernet Connection using Wireless]]</nowiki> - Sharing a wired connection wirelessly in Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn).
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessAccessPoint | Wireless Access Point (WAP)]]</nowiki> - A guide to setting up an Ubuntu-based WAP.
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessBroadcastSystem | Wireless Broadcast System]]</nowiki> - A detailed overview of Wireless Broadcast Systems and how to implement them.

=== Troubleshooting ===
* <nowiki>[[WirelessTroubleshootingProcedure| The Wireless Troubleshooting Procedure]]</nowiki> - This contains instructions for submitting a new question to Launchpad about Ubuntu wireless networking.
* WifiDocs/WiFiTroubleshooting '''VERY Technically Oriented''' 
* WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide '''VERY Technically Oriented'''  
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-RouterIssues | WiFi Router Issues]]</nowiki>

=== Connecting to Specific Networks ===

* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WirelessNetworkOfUniversityOfMaastricht|Connecting to University of Maastricht]]</nowiki> - A guide for connecting to the University's wifi network.
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-EduPaSS]]</nowiki> - Information on connecting to the EduPaSS network, a system deployed by Victorian schools in Australia.

=== External Links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://wireless.kernel.org|The Wireless Susbsytem Homepage]]</nowiki> - The centre of development for Linux's wireless support.
=== Clean up ===
  These following possibly need clean up into above categories if not already

----
CategoryNetworking CategoryWireless
