{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

To edit this wiki, you need a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> account.

=== If you have a Launchpad account ===
 1. Login to the wiki by clicking the "Login to edit" link

=== If you have both a Launchpad Account and SSO Account with different usernames and passwords ===
 1. Go to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/]]</nowiki>
 2. Make sure you are logged out of your regular Launchpad Account.
 3. Click the '''Login''' button.
 4. Enter the e-mail address and password of your current SSO Account.
 5. Click 'Login'.

=== If you have an Ubuntu One account, but no Launchpad account ===
 1. Go to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/]]</nowiki>
 2. Click "Log in / Register".
 3. Insert your Ubuntu One credentials, and click "Log In".
 4. If prompted, confirm the details you want to share and click "Yes, log me in".
 5. This should create a Launchpad account linked to your Ubuntu One account. You should be returned to the Launchpad home page, and you should see that you have now been assigned a launchpad username.
 6. Return to the wiki and login by clicking the "Login to edit" link.
 7. When you are successfully logged in, you will see an "Edit" button below the wiki page title.

=== If you don't have an Ubuntu One or Launchpad account ===
 1. Go to <nowiki>[[https://login.launchpad.net/]]</nowiki>
 2. Select "I am a new Ubuntu One user" and insert your email address and desired password
 3. Read and accept the terms and click "Create account"
 4. Verify your email address on the personal details page
 5. Login to the wiki by clicking the "Login to edit" link
 6. The wiki may not give you edit permissions until you login to the Launchpad site, and possibly update your username. (Alternatively, follow the instructions above - "If you have a Ubuntu One account, but no Launchpad account").

Please note that creating a Launchpad account will create a <nowiki>[[https://login.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> account.

----
Go back to WikiGuide
