{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Please feel free to experiment here, after the four dashes below... and please do '''NOT''' create new pages without any meaningful content just to try it out! 	

'''Tip:''' Shift-click "HelpOnEditing" to open a second window with the help pages.
----

== Introduction ==

This article covers the installation of drivers and utilities for the Brother MFC-7340 printer and scanner functions. All or most of the steps below are covered in various places on the <nowiki>[[Brother Linux Support|http:--welcome.solutions.brother.com-bsc-public_s-id-linux-en-index.html]]</nowiki> website. 

For Ubuntu 12.04 Precise a script has been attached to automate these installation steps.

== Download Driver Packages ==

=== Browser Download ===

<nowiki>[[http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/download_prn.html#MFC-7340|Printer Drivers]]</nowiki> – Download the deb format LPR and cupswrapper drivers.

<nowiki>[[http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/download_scn.html#brscan3|Scanner Drivers]]</nowiki> – Download the deb format brscan3 and scan-key-tool driver packages for your system architecture.

=== CLI Download ===

==== For 64-bit systems ====
<pre> bash
wget http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/brmfc7340lpr-2.0.2-1.i386.deb http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/cupswrapperMFC7340-2.0.2-1.i386.deb http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/brscan3-0.2.11-5.amd64.deb http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/brscan-skey-0.2.4-0.amd64.deb
</pre>

==== For 32-bit Systems ====
<pre> bash
wget http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/brmfc7340lpr-2.0.2-1.i386.deb
http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/cupswrapperMFC7340-2.0.2-1.i386.deb http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/brscan3-0.2.11-4.i386.deb http://www.brother.com/pub/bsc/linux/dlf/brscan-skey-0.2.4-0.i386.deb
</pre>

== Installation ==

Setup apparmour:
<pre> bash
sudo aa-complain cupsd
</pre>

Create required directories:
<pre> bash
mkdir -p /var/spool/lpd
mkdir -p /usr/share/cups/model
mkdir -p /usr/lib/sane
</pre>

=== Highlighting ===
<pre> bash
# !/bin/bash          
            STR="Hello World!"
            echo $STR   
</pre>
