{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The Ubuntu Community Help Wiki can often seem like a daunting thing to start editing, but this is in fact NOT the case! It is easy to start editing and improving the information recorded here. The best way to start is to look at the formatting which is employed on various pages. You can see the code of a page by logging in and selecting "Raw Text" from the 'More Actions:' drop down menu on the page.

=== The basics ===

* Paragraphs should be separated by a blank line.
* To make a list, use a white space at the beginning of a line, followed by either an asterisk (for bullet points), a number, letter etc.
* To make a heading, place one or more equality operators (<code>=</code>) at the beginning and end of a line.
** Use just one on each side to set the page title, as in (<code>= Title =</code>),
** Use a pair of them (<code>== Heading ==</code>) for major headings identifying large sections of text,
** Use three for minor headings that focus on a single topic (<code>=== Section ===</code>), and so on.
* Placing <code>''</code> around portions of text causes the text enclosed by them to be ''rendered as italic'', whereas surrounding text with <code>'''</code> will make the enclosed text '''render in boldface'''. They can be use in tandem, too, with groupings of five (5) generating text that is '''''both boldface and italic'''''.
* To quote a block of code, enclose it in `<code> </code>`.

An example page might look like this:

<pre>
== Page Title ==
=== First major subheading ===
This page is going to explain how to write a guide on the wiki. The following things are important:
* Read the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam|Ubuntu Documentation Team]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-StyleGuide|Style Guide]]</nowiki>
* Make sure you are not reproducing material already on the wiki
* Ask the DocumentationTeam to check the guide afterwards and tag it appropriately

The following paragraph is a ordered list using lowercase letters as list markers:
 a. this is the ''first'' item
 a. this is the ''second'' item
 a. this is the ''third'' item

<pre>
This is a block of code
} }} (the space should not be in your version)
</pre>

It is that easy! For more documentation about this wiki, see the HelpContents page.

=== Advanced Features ===
4As you edit the wiki you will learn how to use the power of the wiki software to do even more clever things! Here are some examples:

* To see almost all the wiki's formatting in action, have a look at the <nowiki>[[HelpOnMoinWikiSyntax|syntax reference page]]</nowiki>.
* Inserting Icons - see IconsPage
* Inserting a table of contents such as what you see at the top of this page:
   <pre>
</pre>
* To insert a simple table of contents, without the box around it, just use: <code></code>

----
Go back to WikiGuide
