{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

This section deals with how to create pages on the Ubuntu wiki.

== Search and Integrate. Don't Duplicate. ==

Before adding a page to the wiki, make sure you do a comprehensive search.

=== Search ===
* RecentChanges - See where people are currently working.
* FindPage - Search or browse the database in various ways.
* TitleIndex - A list of all pages in the wiki.
* WordIndex - A list of all words that are part of page titles.
* <nowiki>[[CategoryCategory|Category List]]</nowiki> - A list of categories that can be selected to list pages in a particlular category. These also list the pages with the category name in the title.

=== Integrate ===
* Don't add '''another''' page if a guide, article, or document already exists on a particular subject.
* If you think the existing document could be better, is out of date, or missing something, then '''improve''' it!
* Either add or integrate the material with the existing page in the appropriate place.

== New Pages ==

If no such article exists, please feel free to create a new page.

=== Choose a Name ===

Choosing a good name is very important to ensure that a user who is searching for the page will find it easily. So:

   a. Choose a descriptive name
   a. Choose a name with some capital letters (such as WikiName). This will ensure that the page has a similar style of name to the existing pages.
   a. Avoid using the word "Howto" in the page title. Everything here is a howto!
   a. Do not use spaces or dashes in the name.

=== Create the Page ===

There are several ways to create a new page but all of them require that you first '''Log-in'''

==== By visiting the page ====

# Type the address for the new page into the address bar of your browser.  Since the page does not exist because you performed the searches discussed above, Moin``Moin will suggest to create it.
# Select a template from the left side of the page that opens. DocumentationTemplate is a default template you can use for any page. There are also some specialized templates to choose from.

==== Add a link on another page ====

# Edit another page
# Add a link to the new page, preferably like this: `<nowiki>[[PageName|Page Name]]</nowiki>`
# Save the page and click the new link
# Click one of the template names
# Edit your new page and save it

For more information on linking to other pages, see HelpOnLinking.

==== By using the NewPage macro ====

# Enter the page name in the text box and click ""
# Edit your page and save it

 
==== By using the GoTo macro ====

# Enter the page name in the text box and click ""
# Click "Create new page"
# Edit your page and save it

 <<GoTo>>

== Advanced ==

* To learn about creating and using template pages see HelpOnTemplates.
* To learn more how to set variables see HelpOnVariables

----
* Go back to WikiGuide
