{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Ubuntu 15.10 is the version of the Ubuntu operating system released in October, 2015. The development codename given to this release is "Wily Werewolf".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 15.10 ("Wily Werewolf") from Ubuntu * 15.04 ("Vivid Vermet").
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 15.10]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 15.04, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.
 
== Upgrade from 15.04 to 15.10 ==

=== Ubuntu Desktops 15.04 to 15.10 (Recommended) ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''update-manager''' application from the '''Unity Dash''' or a command line
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings...''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Confirm the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" option is set to "For any new version", and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and press '''Check''' again after that is complete.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Kubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 15.10 are supported from Kubuntu 15.04.

* <nowiki>[[WilyUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 15.04 to 15.10]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Servers (Recommended) ===

 1. If you installed from 14.04 or 12.04 originally you will need to remove LTS upgrade restrictions. Replace Prompt='''lts''' with Prompt='''normal''':  <pre>
sudo pico /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades
</pre>
 1. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
 1. Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade
</pre>
 1. Follow the on-screen instructions.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
