{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== EasyCam 2 ==

''' Please, if you want participate to the dev of EasyCam, contact me at 'jbtheou in gmail dot com'. Anbreizh Thanks '''

{i} '''These instructions are only applicable for a previous release of Ubuntu'''. If you are not using Ubuntu Hardy Heron (8.04), these instructions will not work. 

<nowiki>[[http://blognux.free.fr|EasyCam 2]]</nowiki> is a new release of EasyCam.

=== Installation on 32 bit systems ===
You need to add the following repository to your source list <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu|Adding Repositories]]</nowiki>
<pre>
deb http://blognux.free.fr/ubuntu hardy main
deb-src http://blognux.free.fr/ubuntu hardy main
</pre>

Then you need to update the packages 
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
and install the '''easycam''' package :
* If you use Gnome : 
<pre>
sudo apt-get install easycam2-gtk
</pre>
* If you use Kde :
<pre>
sudo apt-get install easycam2-qt
</pre>

=== Installation on 64 bit systems ===
''note: instructions found on <nowiki>[[http://blognux.free.fr/?p=27]]</nowiki>''

1. First, install the dependencies:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install python-xml cheese
</pre>
''note: python-xml was permanently removed from Ubuntu under karmic. See https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-xml/+bug/343242?comments=all''

2. Now, download the core and install it:
<pre>
wget http://blognux.free.fr/ubuntu/dists/hardy/main/binary-i386/easycam2-core.deb
sudo dpkg -i easycam2-core.deb
</pre>
 2a. I must did a: 'sudo apt-get -f install' for dependencies problem with the core.

3. Install '''EasyCam'''
* On Gnome
<pre>
wget http://blognux.free.fr/ubuntu/dists/hardy/main/binary-i386/easycam2-gtk.deb
sudo dpkg -i easycam2-gtk.deb
</pre>
* On KDE
<pre>
wget http://blognux.free.fr/ubuntu/dists/hardy/main/binary-i386/easycam2-qt.deb
sudo dpkg -i easycam2-qt.deb
</pre>

== Start easycam ==

With the following command you start easycam (there is also an icon under Application->Utility):
* In Gnome : 
<pre>
gksudo 'python /usr/share/EasyCam2/core.py --gtk'
</pre>
* In Kde : 
<pre>
kdesudo 'python /usr/share/EasyCam2/core.py --qt'
</pre>
Now you can choose your webcam from the list. The software asks you if you want to install the driver.

After some compilation your webcam should be ready.

== Problems ==
If you get in trouble you can check the <nowiki>[[http://blog.jbtheou.fr/|EasyCam]]</nowiki> blog or check on their <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=16670|thread]]</nowiki> (in french) or on the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-fr.org/materiel/webcam_logitech_msn?s=amsn|Documentation Ubuntu Francophone (in french)]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryHardware CategorySoftware
