{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

This pages lists frequently ask question about Ubuntu Server Edition on Amazon Web Services and tries to answer them.

== Questions ==
=== What does EC2, AMI, AKI and ARI stand for? ===

* '''EC2''': Elastic Compute Cloud, the Xen based virtual data center Amazon Web Services offers
* '''AMI''': Amazon Machine Image, the Xen DomU guest virtual machine.
* '''AKI''': Amazon Kernel Image, the Xen guest paravirtualized kernel used by an AMI.
* '''ARI''': Amazon Ramdisk Image, the Xen guest paravirtualized ramdisk used by an AMI.

=== How can I use the Ubuntu Cloud Guest on EC2 Images? Are there minimum requirements for it? ===

To use our images, just follow the instructions on EC2StartersGuide.  There is no minimum requirements for it.  Amazon EC2 is however not the simplest of environments and requires <nowiki>[[http://aws.amazon.com/resources/|some reading]]</nowiki> in order to master it, so be prepared to it...

=== How much does it cost to run Ubuntu Cloud Guest on EC2? ===

There is no fee charged by us for you to run Ubuntu on EC2.  EC2 does however charge instances according to <nowiki>[[http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/#pricing|their pricing]]</nowiki>, which is totally independent of us.

Canonical offers support for Ubuntu Cloud Guest, please visit <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services/ubuntu-advantage/cloud]]</nowiki> for more information.

=== What was used to build the EC2 images and can I use it to build my own images? ===

Ubuntu's vmbuilder was used to build it, together with its ec2 plug in.  To use it, install the '''python-vm-builder-ec2''' package. The process is detailed on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EC2Vmbuilder|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

=== How do I terminate an instance which I cannot connect to? ===

The command '''ec2kill <instance>''' will do just that.

=== How am I informed of a new AMI availability ===

We'll provide the information on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-cloud|mailing list]]</nowiki> when we upload a new AMI.  You can also check the <nowiki>[[http://cloud.ubuntu.com/ami/|the ami locator]]</nowiki>.

=== Where do I report a bug I am encountering ===

If you think that your bug is specific to the Ubuntu Cloud Guest images we provide, please report it in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2|launchpad project]]</nowiki>, otherwise report it as a regular <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu|Ubuntu bug]]</nowiki>.  Feel free to submit your problem to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-cloud|mailing list]]</nowiki> if you are unsure.

=== Is there an IRC chan about Ubuntu Cloud Guest ===

Yes, simply join #ubuntu-server on Freenode.
There is also ##aws on Freenode (irc.freenode.net) for general, non-ubuntu specific, Amazon Web Services chat and help.

=== I have a question that is not answered here ===

If you also have the answer to it, feel free to add it here ;).  Otherwise, please ask your question on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-cloud|mailing list]]</nowiki>, or ask a question on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2|launchpad project]]</nowiki>.
