{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''How to install Eclipse in Ubuntu'''.

Parent page: <nowiki>[[EclipseIDE| Eclipse IDE]]</nowiki>

Including Eclipse <nowiki>[[http://www.eclipse.org/webtools/|Web Tools Project]]</nowiki>, Apache Tomcat, Sun's JDK and icons.

=== Install packages ===
In Edgy (Ubuntu 6.10) and newer most of these packages are now available through apt-get (or your preferred package manager like Synaptic or Adept) from the universe and multiverse repositories. It is recommended that you use the installation from Ubuntu's repositories when available. See InstallingSoftware for notes on installing packages in Ubuntu.

==== Eclipse ====
See <nowiki>[[EclipseIDE| Eclipse IDE]]</nowiki> for instructions installing and setting up Eclipse.

==== Sun's Java JDK ====
You can install the Sun Microsystems JDK either by installing from the Ubuntu repositories or via a more manual process of downloading and creating your own packages. Before Dapper, Ubuntu 6.06, Sun's licenses were not not compatible with Ubuntu's repositories and therefore had to be separately downloaded. From Dapper there are packages in the multiverse repository. This howto creates a .deb package from a download. For Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy Badger users (and earlier), manual download and setup is the only option.

===== Install from Repository =====
See <nowiki>[[EclipseIDE| Eclipse IDE]]</nowiki> for instructions installing the Sun JDK via the repositories.

===== Install by Building your own Package (Ubuntu 5.10 and older) =====
<nowiki>[[http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp|Download the latest JDK from Sun]]</nowiki>, which currently is Mustang, 1.6. Choose the latest jdk update, and then choose the self extracting non rpm file, eg. jdk-6u4-linux-i586.bin

Install <code>fakeroot</code> and <code>java-package</code> from <code>universe</code> to be able to repackage the jdk as a <code>.deb</code>.

Once that is done we create the <code>.deb</code> jdk package.
<pre>
fakeroot make-jpkg jdk-6uxxx-linux-i586.bin
</pre>

Some interaction is required, and there will be the odd permission error etc, but should be fine.

Then we install this new package
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i sun-j2sdk1.6xxx+updatexxx_i386.deb
</pre>

Make Sun's Java your java...
<pre>
sudo update-alternatives --config java
</pre>

Choose the Sun JDK

==== Apache Tomcat ====
You can choose to install Apache from the Ubuntu repositories or go a more manual route, setting it up yourself.

===== Install from Repositories =====
Install the <code>tomcat5.5</code> <code>tomcat5.5-admin</code> and <code>tomcat5.5-webapps</code> packages. See <nowiki>[[ApacheTomcat5| Apache Tomcat 5]]</nowiki> for details.

===== Install Manually =====
If you chose not to install from the Ubuntu repositories and wish to install Apache Tomcat manually, fetch the latest apache tomcat binary.
Choose the core tar.gz file.

http://tomcat.apache.org/download-55.cgi

Untar download and copy to /opt
<pre>
sudo tar zxfp apache-tomcat-5.5.15.tar.gz -C /opt
cd /opt
sudo ln -s apache-tomcat-5.5.15 tomcat
</pre>

Edit tomcat users
<pre>
sudoedit /opt/tomcat/conf/tomcat-users.xml
</pre>

And add an admin and your own?
<pre>
<user name="admin" password="admin" roles="manager,admin" />
<user name="yourname" password="blah" roles="manager,admin" />
</pre>

==== Eclipse Web Tools Project (WTP) ====
Once you have Eclipse up and running the WTP can be installed using Eclipse's own "Software Updates" mechanism: Go to "Help -> Software Updates -> Find and Install", select the "Callisto Discovery Site" and later the "Web and J2EE development" plugin group. Click "Select required" to automatically select all the dependencies.

You might want to install to "/usr/local/lib/eclipse" to make the plugins available for other users.

=== Add Projects ===
Follow this tutorial to create web projects and to add tomcat as the server for this project, <nowiki>[[http://www.eclipse.org/webtools/community/tutorials/BuildJ2EEWebApp/BuildJ2EEWebApp.html]]</nowiki>

The Tomcat publishing is bothersome if your project structure is not a particular standard. IvarAbrahamsen have started a document on how to set up your projects. <nowiki>[[http://flurdy.com/docs/eclipse/project.html]]</nowiki>

=== Notes ===
==== Method for older Ubuntu versions ====
The manual installation sections are based on a howto by IvarAbrahamsen and information gathered from many references. As the old university excuse goes: "Copy from one source is plagiarism, copy from two or more is research".

Note: don't follow he's installation method. Prefere this one:
<pre>
sudo tar xzpf ARCHIVE -C /opt
sudo ln -s /opt/eclipse/eclipse /usr/local/bin
</pre>
Later, you can create the .desktop thing as indicated.

==== Method for newer Ubuntu versions ====
Help > Software Updates > Find and Install... >
(*) Search for new features > Next >
[x] Europa Discovery Site >

PTD runs on the top of WST therefore you have to install WST first
- Expand WEB and JEE development and choose WST
You will get and error of the same nature you godt before don't mind
- Just click on select required (the error will disapear)
-Click finish

Now go back and repeate the same procedure for PTD (when get the error just click on select required)

==== References ====
* Ivar Abrahamsen's original howto http://flurdy.com/docs/eclipse/install.html
* Java http://java.sun.com
* Eclipse http://www.eclipse.org
* Web Tools http://www.eclipse.org/webtools
* Eclipse Callisto http://www.eclipse.org/callisto/java.php
* Ubuntu Eclipse http://wiki.ubuntu.com/EclipseIDE
* Apache Tomcat http://tomcat.apache.org
* <nowiki>[[http://blogs.sun.com/roller/page/coldrick?entry=java_development_on_ubuntu_part|Coldrick blog]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.eclipse.org/webtools/community/tutorials/BuildJ2EEWebApp/BuildJ2EEWebApp.html|Web Tools Tutorial]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.docuverse.com/blog/donpark/EntryViewPage.aspx?guid=f171bafc-abce-4d2e-a18b-3aba4ad32c52|Don Parks Daily Habit]]</nowiki>
* How to create generic projects in Eclipse http://flurdy.com/docs/eclipse/project.html
----
