{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

The PDT project provides a PHP Development Tools framework for the Eclipse platform. It leverages the existing Web Tools Project to provide the PHP development capabilities.

See : <nowiki>[[http://www.eclipse.org/pdt/|PDT Project Page]]</nowiki> at Eclipse.org

See : <nowiki>[[EclipseIDE]]</nowiki>

== Installation ==
=== From Synaptic Package Manager and Update Site ===

'''The PPA is outdated and does not work anymore with 12.04'''

''NOTE: On Ubuntu 10.10 this method will install Eclipse 3.5 (Galileo) and PDT 2.1.''
==== Install Eclipse ====
# Open Synaptic Package Manager (System->Administration->Synaptic Package Manager)
# Find the package "eclipse" and mark it for installation
# Click Apply
==== Install PHP Development Tools (PDT) ====
# Open Eclipse and specify your workspace (Applications->Programming->Eclipse)
# Help->Install New Software
# Select the Galileo Update site
# Select the PHP Development Tools (PDT) Feature
# Install...

=== From Yogarine's Eclipse PPA ===
''NOTE: <nowiki>[[http://blog.yogarine.com/2009/10/eclipse-plugin-packages-for-ubuntu.html|works on Karmic]]</nowiki>''

Yogarine's Eclipse PPA contains (mostly) up-to-date packages for Eclipse and various plug-ins.

These are not *proper* packages, in that they are not compiled from source code, but created from Eclipse's own release packages. Even though this is obviously not The Right Way(TM) to package software, it has the advantage of allowing to quickly package, test and use new releases with very few headaches.

Use these packages if you are a developer that uses Eclipse, and need up-to-date Eclipse packages with as little hassle as possible.

To use it, just run as root: <pre>
add-apt-repository ppa:yogarine/eclipse/ubuntu
apt-get update 
apt-get install eclipse-pdt</pre>

=== From Update Site ===

''NOTE: does not work with Karmic (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eclipse/+bug/463351/comments/10|dependency]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1908520/error-installing-eclipse-pdt-in-ubuntu-9-10|problems]]</nowiki>). The <nowiki>[[http://wiki.eclipse.org/PDT/Installation|"From Update Site" instructions on eclipse.org]]</nowiki> don't work either.''

* Download eclipse from eclipse.org
# add PDT through the Ecplise update functionality. Go to Help -> Software Updates -> Find and Install...
# Hit the New Remote Site button on the right hand side.
  a. ''Name'': PDT – PHP Development Tools
  a. ''URL'': http://download.eclipse.org/tools/pdt/updates/
# Once added continue on to the next section.
# In the repository that comes up, expand the “PDT – PHP Development Tools” group.
# Just install the PDT Features package. 
  a. PDT Features SDK is not required for normal developer use.
# Review and agree to the license agreements and step through the installation process.
# Restart Eclipse
# The PHP view is now added.

----
