{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

Subclipse is an Eclipse plugin that provides project integration with Subversion repositories.  Using Subclipse you can checkout, browse, and share code from any Subversion repository.

See : <nowiki>[[Subversion]]</nowiki>

See : <nowiki>[[https://github.com/subclipse/subclipse/wiki|Official Subclipse Home Page]]</nowiki>

See : <nowiki>[[EclipseIDE]]</nowiki>

The <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.org.cn/EclipseSubversion|Chinese translation]]</nowiki> of this article.

== Subversion support ==

First of all, install the <nowiki>[[apt:subversion|subversion]]</nowiki> package (see InstallingSoftware).

== Installing Subclipse ==

To install Subclipse:

You need to install the version of subclipse matching your subversion client, for example with

`$ svn --version` <<BR>>
`svn, version 1.6.17 (r1128011)`

the right Remote site for subclipse installation is <code>http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.6.x</code>
For details see <nowiki>[[https://github.com/subclipse/subclipse/wiki|subclipse wiki]]</nowiki>

'''NOTE''': On Ubuntu 9.10+ you may need to install the eclipse-pde package before installing Subclipse.

* Open Eclipse, go into the menus : Help -> Install New Software...
* Click "Add..." and add a new Remote Site with URL: <code> http://subclipse.tigris.org/update </code> Name: subclipse.tigris.org
* Select "Subclipse Plugin" and optionally "Subclipse Book"
* Next, Next, Accept license terms, Finish.
* ''Note:'' You do not need to select the other "integration" packages unless you have Mylyn or Mylar and plan on integrating with them. In fact, the integration packages can break things unless you have the packages they're intended to integrate with.
* Restart Eclipse

=== Configuring a Subversion Repository ===

To configure Subclipse to connect to a repository open the '''SVN Repository Exploring''' perspective:

* Click on Window -> Open Perspective -> Other
* Highlight SVN Repository Exploring -> click Ok

You should now have the '''SVN Repository''' view open in the right hand column.  Now we can add our Subversion repository url:

* Right click in the SVN Repository column -> New -> Repository Location
* Enter the url of your repository -> click Ok

== Using Subclipse ==

Once you've configured your repository you can check out code into a new Eclipse project.  You can also create new project from Subversion repositories by:

* Clicking on File -> New -> Project
* Expand the SVN folder -> Checkout Projects from SVN

You can upload your code into a Subversion repository by:

* Right click the project -> Team -> Share Project
* Highlight SVN -> Next
* Select a Repository you've already configured and click Next, or choose ''create a new repository location''  and click Next.
* Choose the folder you want to upload to and click Finish.

Once you've shared your project or checked one out you can access most common svn functions by right clicking the project and selecting an item from the '''Team''' menu.

'''Note:''' this guide has been tested on Ubuntu 7.06 (Feisty Fawn) and Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon), and partially tested on Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid Lynx).
----
CategoryProgramming
