{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

This program allows you to edit <nowiki>[[http://moinmo.in|Moin]]</nowiki> pages with your preferred editor. It means you can easily edit your pages, without the usual limitations of most web browsers' text areas. 

editmoin is available under the GPL.

== Installation Instructions ==

Look for the package named '''editmoin''' in the Synaptic Package Manager and install it.

Alternatively open a terminal and type: 
<pre>
sudo apt-get install editmoin
</pre>

== Editing Ubuntu Wiki Pages With editmoin ==

Anonymous editing of Ubuntu wiki pages is not permitted.  To authenticate, one must add a line containing the url of the wiki in question and one's ID, which in this case is the MOIN_SESSION cookie, to the file .moin_ids in one's home directory. For example:
<pre>
https://wiki.ubuntu.com 28ebede4988kki0t0xhhlueljdq42tho

</pre>

== Further Reading ==

See the homepage at http://labix.org/editmoin.  And bug tracking and code hosting is available in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/editmoin|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

----
