{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The focus of this page is to coordinate the creation/updating of a complete set of basic instructions for setting up a school lab using Edubuntu Lucid with LTSP.

=== Hints on editing this page ===
Vertical dividing lines on the table are created by placing "||" on successive lines of text.  You must leave at least 1 space before the first word in a cell and you cannot put a space after the last "||" on a row.  As you will see when you go about editing this page, the "||" do not have to be lined up one above the other.

=== Table of "Mandatory" Tasks ===
The '''"optional"''' tasks are on the second table below. There are no links in this table because it makes the table even more difficult to edit.  Please see the links for each task in the corresponding line at the bottom of this page. Add your name to a row if you are willing to take some leadership on that how-to.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Steps to...'''
| '''Creators Stewards'''
| '''Status'''
| '''"last touched" & comment'''
|-
| 1. Install Edubuntu
| DavidG
| Needs Review/Testing
| "'10/July" For lucid
|-
| 2. Install LTSP
| DavidG
| 
| "'10/July" lns has nice video for this, needs written page to accompany
|-
| 3. Install media plugins
| 
| 
| "'10/July"
|-
| 6. Create backup process
| 
| 
| "'10/July"
|-
| 8. Manage Student Permissions
| 
| 
| "'10/July" Sabayon yes, menu editor also?
|-
| 9. Set proxy server
| 
| 
| "'10/July" use squid to work with squid-guard?
|-
| 10. Control details of internet access
| 
| 
| "'10/July" squid-guard?
|-
| 11. Install programs into the chroot
| 
| 
| "'10/July" such as Cmaptools?
|-
| 13. Set up a Printer
| 
| 
| "'10/July"
|-
| 16. Install multiple-computer management software
| 
| 
| "'10/July" iTALC? alkisg? lns?
|-
| 18. Install ...?
| 
| 
| "'10/July"
|}

=== Table of "optional" Tasks ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Steps to...'''
| '''Creators Stewards'''
| '''Status'''
| '''"last touched" & comment'''
|-
| 4. Install Localapps
| 
| Done
| "'10/July"
|-
| 5. Get Firefox working on Localapps
| 
| Done
| "'10/July" good for Karmic and Lucid
|-
| 7. Add users in bulk
| 
| 
| "'10/July" use webmin?
|-
| 12. General Maintenance of system
| 
| 
| "'10/July" Update chroot?
|-
| 14. Set up a scanner
| 
| 
| "'10/July"
|-
| 15. Install Remote Access software
| 
| 
| "'10/July" NX?
|-
| 17. Install Smart Board software
| 
| 
| "'10/July"
|-
| 18. Setup Fat Clients
| 
| 
| '10/July'
|}

==== Below find the links to the Setup pages: ====
* #1 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/installlucid|Install Edubuntu--Lucid]]</nowiki>
* #2 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/installLTSPlucid|Instructions to install LTSP]]</nowiki> and, <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8yD0QV_Cm2w|this is lns' video on Hardy but not sure if true for Lucid too?]]</nowiki>
* #3 Install Media Plugins <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats#Playing%20Restricted%20Formats|(These will be helpful)]]</nowiki>
* #4 Enable LocalApps
* #5 <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/ThinClientHowtoNAT|Get Firefox working on Localapps]]</nowiki>
* #6 Create backup system
* #7 Add users in bulk
* #8 Manage Student Permissions
* #9 Set proxy server
* #10 Control details of internet access
* #11 Install programs into the chroot
* #12 General Maintenance of system
* #13 Set up a Printer
* #14 Set up a scanner
* #15 Install Remote Access software
* #16 Install multiple computer management software
* #17 Install SmartBoard software
* #19 Install ...
* #18 
* #20 
