{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page is a starting point toward a spec to be proposed at UDS Prague '08.  Please use this page to list the mission critical items (and corresponding LP bug numbers) toward getting full support on the Asus EeePC.

=== Fixes For Inclusion ===
Fixes & updates which could be deployed in the main Ubuntu install.
* Wireless with AR5007 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24/+bug/182489/]]</nowiki>
* Wrong UDMA mode due to error in 40/80 wire cable detection <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/195221]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu hangs at shutdown (snd-hda-intel) <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/126140]]</nowiki>
* Wireless switch on Eee PC needs pciehp to work correctly <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/182490]]</nowiki>
* EeePC internal microphone does not function out-of-the-box with Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/232173]]</nowiki>
* EeePC Volume and Wireless Hotkeys Do Not Function Out-Of-The-Box with Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/232170]]</nowiki>
* ACPI?

=== Transformation ===
Transformations & tweaks which would be specific to subnotebooks - and would be extraneous to the main Ubuntu install - a transformation meta package could apply all these tweaks in one go.
* Sane defaults to maximise screen real estate in Gnome. Smaller fonts / One Panel / Gnome-Do
* Overclocking the 700 series processor.
* Minimise disk usage / recognize SSD on installation and apply tweaks (swappiness etc.)
* When vertical resolution is very low, you should be able to move windows above the taskbar by default (disable constrain Y in Compiz)
* There is no CD-drive. Hence, no need for Brasero/Sound-Juicer etc. to be installed by default.
* Reduce power consumption. Automatic processor scaling, Intel Powertop fixes etc.
* Boot time / Shutdown improvements?
* OCD (http://code.google.com/p/eee-osd/)?
