{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Configuration ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

This section covers the configuration of Ekiga. See <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki> for the main page.

----
=== First use ===
When you start Ekiga for the first time, the 10 step '''Configuration druid''' will help you to correctly configure Ekiga. It is '''strongly''' recommended that you complete this configuration procedure.

Step-by-step help about the druid at <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ekiga.org/index.php/Configuring_Ekiga|Configuring Ekiga]]</nowiki> Wiki page at ekiga.org.

----
=== Network ===
Ekiga is able to use a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STUN|STUN server]]</nowiki>. In most cases the defaults should work fine, even for users of consumer-grade firewalls.

However, for advanced users or complex setups, here is the list of ports used by Ekiga:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Protocol
| Port
| Type of port
| Description
|-
| SIP
| 5000 to 5100
| UDP
| SIP signalling, listen port: 5060
|-
| STUN
| 3478 to 3479
| UDP
| Outgoing traffic to <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STUN|STUN servers]]</nowiki>
|-
| H323
| 1720
| TCP
| Listen port
|-
| H323
| 5000 to 5100
| UDP
| gatekeepers H.323
|-
| H323
| 30000 to 30010
| TCP
| H.245 channel for old implementations H.323 (Netmeeting)
|}

If your router reports "Symmetric NAT" (which is a problem), this thread might help you:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4011798&posted=1#post4011798

==== Several Ekigas on a LAN ====
There are several programs which allow copies of Ekiga to communicate with each other; you can use a SIP proxy (like <nowiki>[[http://siproxd.sourceforge.net/|Siproxd]]</nowiki>) or a PBX (like <nowiki>[[http://www.asterisk.org/|Asterisk]]</nowiki>. Further information about Ekiga and Asterisk can be found on the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ekiga.org/index.php/Main_Page|Ekiga documentation]]</nowiki>), or you can use <nowiki>[[HowToZeroconf|Avahi]]</nowiki>.

==== Bonjour ====
Avahi is the main implementation of <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeroconf|ZeroConf protocol]]</nowiki> under Ubuntu (known as Rendezvous or Bonjour on Mac OS X). This technology allows automatic discovery of services.

To set up Avahi, please follow the <nowiki>[[HowToZeroconf|Zeroconf Howto]]</nowiki>.

Other copies of Ekiga on the LAN should appear in the Address Book (third button on the left) if you double-click on ''Contacts Near Me''.

----
=== Sound ===
This section is about testing and changing the sound configuration in Ekiga.

==== Test your computer ====
The audio test in the configuration druid will show you if there is any audio problem.

In case of audio problem, to check if your computer meets the requirements for Ekiga, try this <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CommandlineHowto|command in a terminal]]</nowiki>:

<pre>
$ arecord -D plughw:0,0 -c 1 -r 8000 -f S16_LE - | aplay -D plughw:0,0 -c 1 -r 8000 -f S16_LE -
</pre>

Now, speak into your microphone. You should be able to hear yourself in your headset with a small delay (approximately half a second). If it doesn't work as expected, first try to setup correctly your audio desktop configuration: make sure your microphone is not muted and the volume levels are OK.

==== Ekiga and other audio applications ====
Ekiga is capable of running simultaneously with other sound applications (like music and video players). The following directions should be enough to accomplish this:

From the '''Edit''' menu, choose '''Preferences''' → '''Devices''' → '''Audio Devices'''.

* Select "<code>ALSA</code>" as the audio plugin
* Select "<code>Default</code>" as output
* Select "<code>Default</code>" as input

Then, from the '''Edit''' menu, choose '''Preferences''' → '''General''' → '''Sound Events'''. Select "Default" as alternate device output.

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ekiga.org/index.php/Getting_several_applications_using_the_sound_card_at_the_same_time_%3F|Ekiga's documentation More about running Ekiga with other audio applications]]</nowiki>

----
=== Webcam ===
Ekiga does not require a webcam.

* <nowiki>[[Webcam| How to set up a webcam]]</nowiki>

==== Choosing the right webcam driver ====
The Linux kernel has two ways to communicate with video devices, the old v4l and the new v4l2. It's best to use v4l2, but some devices only support v4l.

From the '''Edit''' menu, choose '''Preferences''' → '''Devices''' → '''Video device'''.

* Try "'''v4l2'''” or "'''v4l'''” as video plugin

==== Choosing the right video device ====
If you have several video devices (like a TV card and a webcam) you will need to tell Ekiga which one to use:

From the '''Edit''' menu, choose '''Preferences''' → '''Devices''' → '''Video device'''. Change the channel number until you find the right one.

==== Test your webcam ====
To test your webcam, click the fourth of the six icons (a grey round webcam) on the left side of the main Ekiga window. If eveything is ok, you'll see the output of the webcam. If not, you'll see the Ekiga logo bouncing slowly.

----
=== Encrypt your calls ===
As Ekiga use a standard Sip protocol, your calls can easily be encrypted using <nowiki>[[http://zfoneproject.com|Zfone]]</nowiki>. The present version (3.2) support Zfone natively.

------
== Ekiga Links ==
Navigate to Ekiga pages at Ubuntu Help

* <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki> - Telephony Software
*** <nowiki>[[Ekiga-VoIP_Providers]]</nowiki> - Commercial VoIP Providers
*** <nowiki>[[Ekiga-Configuration]]</nowiki> - Configuring Ekiga
*** <nowiki>[[Ekiga-FAQ]]</nowiki> - Frequently Asked Questions about Ekiga
----
== See Also ==
* <nowiki>[[InternetApplications]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[WengoPhone]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Skype]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SoftPhone]]</nowiki>
