{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Register to a commercial VoIP provider ==
(for landline and mobile phones)

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

This explains how to set up and activate VoIP in in <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki>. This information may also be helpful for other SIP or VoIP software. You can register to a commercial VoIP provider to place calls to normal phone line or cell phone (POTS). Ekiga allows you to register with several VoIP providers.
----

=== Default provider ===
There is no obligation for you to use the default provider in Ekiga.

The default provider is <nowiki>[[https://www.diamondcard.us/|Diamondcard Worldwide Communication Service]]</nowiki>, which offers these <nowiki>[[https://www.diamondcard.us/exec/voip-rep-acc-type?priInc=/ekiga?sr%3D/secondary/e/ekiga%26pr%3D/templates%26ht%3D/templates&secInc=/ekiga?sr%3D/secondary/e/ekiga%26pr%3D/templates%26ht%3D/secondary/e/ekiga&secAbs=/home/diamond/secondary/e/ekiga&secRel=/secondary/e/ekiga&priAbs=/home/diamond/templates&priRel=/templates&secId=ekiga&lc=|rates]]</nowiki>

   1. To purchase the account, go in '''Tools -> PC-To-Phone Account'''. You absolutely need to purchase the account from the PC-To-Phone configuration window or it won't work.
   2. Once you have opened an account, login to your account to look up your '''Account Number''' and '''PIN'''. Don't confuse these with your username and password!
   3. Enter the account number and PIN in the appropriate fields in the window and enable the PC-To-Phone service. 
   4. If you need to edit the account under Edit->Accounts, you should use account number and PIN here also, even though it says "user" and "password". :(

You are now ready to do PC-To-Phone calls at very low rates all over the world.

To dial a number, simply add "00" followed by the country code, and by the phone number you want to reach. 

For example, sip:003210111111 to call number 10111111 in Belgium.

If you suffer from high latency (long delays) when using pc-to-phone you may need to enable the GSM codec in the audio section of Ekiga's preference window. 
----

=== Broadvoice Support ===
In order to setup Ekiga to work with <nowiki>[[http://www.broadvoice.com/|Broadvoice]]</nowiki> which offer those <nowiki>[[http://www.broadvoice.com/rateplans.html|rates]]</nowiki>, use the following settings.

Figure out which proxy is closest to you:

Ekiga Preferences:

* '''SIP Settings''' → '''Outbound SIP Proxy:''' proxy.broadvoice.com

* '''Codecs''' → '''Video Codecs''' → Disable (uncheck) video support or else you will get a codec error.

Account Information:

* Registrar: sip.broadvoice.com

* User: <10 digit broadvoice telephone number>

* Password: <obtained requesting it from broadvoice support>

* Authentication Login: <10 digit broadvoice telephone number>

* Realm/Domain: sip.broadvoice.com or Broadworks

In the case where you need to troubleshoot, start ekiga with 'ekiga -d 4'
----

=== How to set up a Gizmo account ===
<nowiki>[[http://gizmoproject.com/|Gizmo]]</nowiki> offers those <nowiki>[[http://gizmoproject.com/call-out-rates.php|rates]]</nowiki>.

To subscibe an account, go <nowiki>[[https://signup.sipphone.com/new-users/app?class=NewUser;proc=start|here]]</nowiki> and open a Sipphone account. Then, with your account number and your password go <nowiki>[[https://my.gizmoproject.com/gizmo/app?class=MySip&proc=start|there]]</nowiki>, you'll be prompted to choose a Gizmo name.

Once you have an active account you can setup Ekiga to use it. In Ekiga, go to '''Edit | Accounts'''. This will open the '''Accounts''' window. Go to '''Accounts | Add a SIP account'''. Fill this window out with the following information (provided from Gizmo).

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name:
| whatever you wish
|-
| Registrar:
| proxy01.sipphone.com
|-
| User:
| Your Gizmo number (1747xxxxxxx)
|-
| Authentication User:
| Your Gizmo number (1747xxxxxxx)
|-
| Password:
| Your password
|-
| Timeout:
| 3600 (this is the default setting)
|}
Also make sure that the '''Enable Account''' box is checked.

When you click on ''OK'' you should see the new entry and the ''status'' go to '''Registered'''.
Drag the new account to the top of the list if you have multiple accounts.

Next, test it out by dialing sip:18005558355@proxy01.sipphone.com
You can alternatively dial just '''18005558355''' and the sip:...@proxy01.sipphone.com will automatically be added on.
----

=== How to set up a Wengo account ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.wengophone.com|Wengo]]</nowiki> offer this <nowiki>[[http://www.wengophone.com/index.php/aboutcallout|rates]]</nowiki>.

Once you've registered at https://secure.wengo.com/register/wengophone/index.php?yawl[S]=wengo.public.homePage&yawl[K]=wengo.subs_152.persistOffer&lang=eng 
, visit

<code>https://ws.wengo.fr/softphone-sso/sso.php?login=YOUR-EMAIL&password=YOUR-PASSWORD</code>

where <code>YOUR-EMAIL</code> and <code>YOUR-PASSWORD</code> are what you used when you registered your account. <nowiki>[[http://dev.openwengo.org/trac/openwengo/trac.cgi/wiki/GetYourWengoPlatformSipPassword|This will give you your real username and password]]</nowiki>:
{{{
...
<userid>Username</userid>
...
<password>Password</password>
...}}}

Now go to menu <code>Edit → Accounts → Add</code>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Account name:
| whatever you wish
|-
| Registrar:
| <code>voip.wengo.fr</code>
|-
| User:
| the username from the ws.wengo.fr url above
|-
| Password:
| the password from the ws.wengo.fr url above
|}

Now try the echo test: <code>sip:333@voip.wengo.fr</code>

------

== Ekiga Links ==
Navigate to Ekiga pages at Ubuntu Help

* <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki> - Telephony Software
*** <nowiki>[[Ekiga--VoIP_Providers]]</nowiki> - Commercial VoIP Providers
*** <nowiki>[[Ekiga-Configuration]]</nowiki> - Configuring Ekiga
*** <nowiki>[[Ekiga-FAQ]]</nowiki> - Frequently Asked Questions about Ekiga
----
== See Also ==
* <nowiki>[[InternetApplications]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[WengoPhone]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Skype]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SoftPhone]]</nowiki>
----
== Commercial VoIP Providers ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.diamondcard.us/|Diamondcard Worldwide Communication Service]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.broadvoice.com/|Broadvoice]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gizmoproject.com/|Gizmo]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.wengophone.com|Wengo]]</nowiki>
----
