{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Send email alerts using ssmtp ==

Here’s how to setup sending emails through command line. A common application could be to send an alert message through user created script. 

== Prerequisites ==

* Ubuntu Server/Desktop
* Gmail account
 
== Setup ==

Update Ubuntu Repository

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

Install the ssmtp package

<pre>
sudo apt-get install ssmtp
</pre>

== configure ssmtp ==

Edit the configuration file. The lines '''without''' the # are the ones we are interested in.

<pre>
sudo nano /etc/ssmtp/ssmtp.conf
</pre>

Adjust and add as necessary to match the following parameters

Change "MyEmailAddress" and "MyPassword" to your own.

<pre>
root=MyEmailAddress@gmail.com

mailhub=smtp.gmail.com:587

AuthUser=MyEmailAddress@gmail.com
AuthPass=MyPassword
UseTLS=YES
UseSTARTTLS=YES

rewriteDomain=gmail.com

hostname=MyMediaServer.home

FromLineOverride=YES

</pre>

Create aliases for local usernames (optional)

edit the /etc/ssmtp/revaliases file

<pre>
sudo nano /etc/ssmtp/revaliases
</pre>

And add into it the desired translation which in our Gmail examples case will be
<pre>
root:username@gmail.com:smtp.gmail.com:587
mainuser:username@gmail.com:smtp.gmail.com:587
</pre>

From now on, the machine will Email when requested through command line or script.

== Check setup ==

Lets test that our ssmtp setup was correct by sending an Email

<pre>
echo "Test message from Linux server using ssmtp" | sudo ssmtp -vvv destination-email-address@some-domain.com
</pre>

The “-vvv” turns on verbosity output. 

== Errors ==

Unfortunately a few thing can go wrong. 

* Check username and password '''again'''
* Check google is not blocking your new device
