{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Enlightenment, also known simply as E, is a free software/open source graphical interface system under the BSD 2-clause license. It can provide an ''X Window System'' window manager for use with GNOME or KDE, or it can also be deployed as a substitute for a full desktop environment. Enlightenment has a rich feature set - extensive support for themes and advanced graphics without sacrificing good performance.

== Installing E17 ==

E17 is old and stable version that is quickly becoming out of date

Install <nowiki>[[apt:e17|e17]]</nowiki> from the Universe repository.

Go to the top right of your screen and in the User Switcher select Log Out. At Login Manger window choose: Options/Session > choose: Enlightenment.

== Installing E21 ==

Current stable version is E21 which can be installed from the PPA niko2040/e19
Although the above PPA is named E19 it does contain the latest E21.

To install simply type:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:niko2040/e19
sudo apt update
sudo apt install enlightenment terminology
</pre>

The above commands install the default Enlightenment packages and the Terminology terminal emulator which is recommended by the official enlightenment website to be installed.

== External Links ==
* <nowiki>[[https://www.enlightenment.org/|E Home Page]]</nowiki> - The home page of Enlightenment.
* <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enlightenment_(software)|Wikipedia page]]</nowiki> - Wikipedia page on Enlightenment.

----
