{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Breezy| < Breezy]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Edgy| Edgy >>]]</nowiki>

== 6.06 to 8.04 (Dapper to Hardy) ==

=== Before you start ===

Please make sure you've read and understood the <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| main EOLUpgrade page]]</nowiki>.

I would recommend using <nowiki>[[http://www.clonezilla.org| clonezilla]]</nowiki> for backing up your current installation. It is very easy to backup and restore your partitions with clonezilla. It takes less then 30 minutes to backup/restore a 20Gb root filesystem which has 4-5 Gb used space.

 Note:: Ubuntu 6.06's support has ended in June 2009 for desktops and will end June 2011 for servers. This will mean a lot of desktop applications are not supported/updated anymore. See <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security//dapper/supported.txt| this list]]</nowiki> of supported packages. Upgrading 6.06.x to 8.04 is regarded as a regular upgrade. Please see <nowiki>[[DapperUpgrades]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[HardyUpgrades]]</nowiki> for more information.

=== Requirements ===

* /etc/apt/sources.list

Please make sure you have the following sources.list.

<pre>
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper-security main restricted universe multiverse

</pre>

You can make use of -backports, -proposed repositories if you want.
For more information about repositories see <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

=== The upgrade ===

* Make sure your sources.list is correct (see requirements)
* Update the package list and get fully upgrade all packages
<pre>
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude upgrade
</pre>

* If you run a -desktop version of ubuntu, please reinstall this package:
<pre>
sudo aptitude reinstall ubuntu-desktop # or kubuntu, xubuntu, edubuntu, etc
</pre>

NOTE: It could be that you just upgraded your kernel, if this is the case, please reboot!

* Run the update script

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

* Important note: you may need to edit the file /etc/fstab to change "hda" old IDE disk notation by "sda" new disk notation.

* Check your new version
Reboot your machine and you can now run `lsb_release -a` to check the new version of Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Breezy| < Breezy]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Edgy| Edgy >>]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryUpgrade
