{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Jaunty| Jaunty]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Karmic| Karmic ]]</nowiki> >>

== 9.10 to 10.04 (Karmic to Lucid) using Alternate CD ==

Note that the instructions listed at the bottom of this page will '''no longer work'''. The `do_release_upgrade` tool will now return this error:

<pre>
An upgrade from 'karmic' to 'lucid' is not supported with this tool.
</pre>

To upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04, you must now use the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Upgrades#Upgrades_via_alternate_CD | Alternate CD upgrade method]]</nowiki>. Or you can use:

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
</pre>

Which will still allow you to upgrade to Ubuntu 10.04.

== 9.10 to 10.04 (Karmic to Lucid) ==

=== Before you start ===

Please make sure you've read and understood the <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| main EOLUpgrade page]]</nowiki>.

I would recommend using <nowiki>[[http://www.clonezilla.org| clonezilla]]</nowiki> for backing up your current installation. It is very easy to backup and restore your partitions with clonezilla. It takes less then 30 minutes to backup/restore a 20Gb root filesystem which has 4-5 Gb used space.

=== The upgrade ===

* Please make sure you have the following sources.list (/etc/apt/sources.list).
<pre>
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ karmic main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ karmic-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ karmic-security main restricted universe multiverse

</pre>

You can make use of -backports, -proposed repositories if you want.
For more information about repositories see <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

* Update the package list and upgrade all the installed packages
<pre>
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
</pre>

* Perform the release upgrade.

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

* Check your new version
Reboot your machine and you can now run `lsb_release -a` to check the new version of Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Jaunty| < Jaunty]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Karmic| Karmic >>]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryUpgrade
