{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Feisty| < Feisty]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Hardy| Hardy >>]]</nowiki>

== 7.10 to 8.04 (Gutsy to Hardy) ==

=== Before you start ===

Please make sure you've read and understood the <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| main EOLUpgrade page]]</nowiki>.

I would recommend using <nowiki>[[http://www.clonezilla.org| clonezilla]]</nowiki> for backing up your current installation. It is very easy to backup and restore your partitions with clonezilla. It takes less then 30 minutes to backup/restore a 20Gb root filesystem which has 4-5 Gb used space.

 Known upgrade issues:: The upgrade will freeze on the locales package if you are using the (current) Gutsy kernel, 2.6.22-15. Reboot into 2.6.22-14 before upgrading. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/249340| See the bug report on Launchpad for full details. ]]</nowiki>. You can also use the 2.6.22-16 kernel.

=== Requirements ===

* /etc/apt/sources.list

Please make sure you have the following sources.list.

<pre>
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ gutsy main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ gutsy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ gutsy-security main restricted universe multiverse

</pre>

You can make use of -backports, -proposed repositories if you want.
For more information about repositories see <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

=== The upgrade ===

* Make sure your sources.list is correct (see requirements)
* Update the package list and upgrade all the installed packages
<pre>
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
</pre>

Please be aware that you are NOT running on kernel 2.6.22-15, other kernels, 2.6.22-14, 2.6.22-16 are OK to use.

* Change your sources.list
Your sources.list should contain the following entries.
<pre>
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-security main restricted universe multiverse

</pre>

You can make use of -backports, -proposed repositories if you want.
For more information about repositories see <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

* Update the package list

<pre>
sudo aptitude update
</pre>

* Perform the release upgrade.

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

* IDE disk notation in fstab

You may need to edit the file /etc/fstab to change "hda" old IDE disk notation by "sda" new disk notation, eg /dev/hda1 becomes /dev/sda1. You can use the following one-liner to do this:

<pre>
sudo perl -p -i.ORIG -e 's#^(/dev/)hda(\d+)#$1sda$2 /etc/fstab
</pre>

* Check your new version
Reboot your machine and you can now run `lsb_release -a` to check the new version of Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Feisty| < Feisty]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Hardy| Hardy >>]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUpgrade
