{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Gutsy| < Gutsy]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Intrepid| Intrepid >>]]</nowiki>

== 8.04 to 10.04 (Hardy LTS to Lucid LTS) ==

Hardy became unsupported from April 2011 for desktop users and the server version from April 2013. Upgrading 8.04.x to 10.04 is regarded as a regular upgrade. Please see <nowiki>[[HardyUpgrades]]</nowiki> for more information. This page is purely here to go to Intrepid, which became unsupported in April 2010.

=== Before you start ===

Please make sure you've read and understood the <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| main EOLUpgrade page]]</nowiki>.

I would recommend using <nowiki>[[http://www.clonezilla.org| clonezilla]]</nowiki> for backing up your current installation. It is very easy to backup and restore your partitions with clonezilla. It takes less then 30 minutes to backup/restore a 20Gb root filesystem which has 4-5 Gb used space.

=== The upgrade ===

* Please make sure you have the following sources.list.

<pre>
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-security main restricted universe multiverse

</pre>

You can make use of -backports, -proposed repositories if you want.
For more information about repositories see <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

* Update the package list and upgrade all the installed packages

<pre>
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
</pre>

* Perform the release upgrade.

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

* Check your new version
Reboot your machine and you can now run `lsb_release -a` to check the new version of Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Gutsy| < Gutsy]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Intrepid| Intrepid >>]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUpgrade
