{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Hardy| < Hardy]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Jaunty| Jaunty >>]]</nowiki>

== 8.10 to 9.04 (Intrepid to Jaunty) ==

=== Before you start ===

Please make sure you've read and understood the <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| main EOLUpgrade page]]</nowiki>.

I would recommend using <nowiki>[[http://www.clonezilla.org| clonezilla]]</nowiki> for backing up your current installation. It is very easy to backup and restore your partitions with clonezilla. It takes less then 30 minutes to backup/restore a 20Gb root filesystem which has 4-5 Gb used space.

=== The upgrade ===

* Please make sure you have the following sources.list (/etc/apt/sources.list).
 {{{
# # EOL upgrade sources.list
# Required
 deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid main restricted universe multiverse
 deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-updates main restricted universe multiverse
 deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-security main restricted universe multiverse
 
# Optional
# deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-backports main restricted universe multiverse
# deb http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ intrepid-proposed main restricted universe multiverse
 }}}

 You can make use of -backports, -proposed repositories if you want.
 For more information about repositories see <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

* Update the package list and upgrade all the installed packages
 {{{
 sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
 }}}

* Perform the release upgrade.

 {{{
 sudo do-release-upgrade
 }}}

 This step currently fails, saying: 

 {{{
 Checking for a new ubuntu release
 Failed Upgrade tool signature
 Failed Upgrade tool
 Done downloading            
 extracting 'jaunty.tar.gz'
 Failed to extract
 Extracting the upgrade failed. There may be a problem with the network or with the server.
 }}}

 A workaround is described here: https://serverfault.com/questions/278078/error-upgrading-ubuntu-server-from-intrepid-to-jaunty

* Check your new version
 Reboot your machine and you can now run `lsb_release -a` to check the new version of Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades| <<]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Hardy| < Hardy]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[EOLUpgrades-Jaunty| Jaunty >>]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryUpgrade
