{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Installing Epson GT-F720, GT-S620, Perfection V30, or Perfection V300 Photo scanner

''NOTE: Tried only with Espon Perfection V30; according to Epson the other scanners use the same Epkowa interpreter.''

== Required packages ==

These four scanners require the following packages:
* iscan-${version}~usb0.1.ltdl7_{$architecture}.deb
   ''From ubuntu 8.10 and up ltdl7 is used, older 8.04 and before version of ubuntu use ltdl3.'';
* iscan-data_${version}_all.deb; and
* esci-interpreter-gt-f720_${version}_${architecture}.deb
   ''The esci-interpreter version is different from the iscan-, and iscan-data-version.''

Epson provides these packages via their download page http://download.ebz.epson.net/dsc/search/01/search/searchModule.
Search for your scanner model.
Iscan and iscan-data are in the "core package&data package"-module.
esci-interpreter is in the "iscan plugin"-module.

== Install ==

Install the packages using your favourite package management tool.  The following shows using the commandline tools dpkg, apt-get, and apt-mark:

* Install the downloaded packages:
   <pre>
   sudo dpkg -i --refuse-downgrade \
        ${HOME}/Downloads/iscan-data_${version}~usb0.1.ltdl7_{$architecture}.deb \
        ${HOME}/Downloads/iscan-${version}~usb0.1.ltdl7_{$architecture}.deb \
        ${HOME}/Downloads/esci-interpreter-gt-f720_${version}_${architecture}.deb`
   </pre>

* Fix missing dependencies:
   <pre>
   sudo apt-get install --fix-broken
   </pre>

* Mark iscan-data as automatically installed, so that it will be removed when you
   unintall iscan.
   ''If you intent to use another (SANE) frontend, you can mark iscan as automatically
   installed as well.  The esci-interpreter depends on iscan which depends on 
   iscan-data.''
   <pre>
   sudo apt-mark auto iscan-data
   </pre>

== Configure Sane to use Esci-interpreter ==

To iscan and esci-interpreter packages confige sane automatically: It Just Works™.

If you had powered on your scanner before installing the drivers, turn it off and on again to avoid
the access denied errors (see http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1795827 ).

== See also ==
* http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1795827 - info and solution for "access refused to the peripheral" error
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SANE%20-%20Installing%20a%20scanner%20that%20isn%27t%20auto-detected - tutorial on mannually configuring drivers for sane.
