{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

This page provides some basic information about error messages.

== System Error Numbers ==

Error codes are often returned by programs or specific functions in code.
There are some common messages associated with these error codes.
See the following links for more information:

* <nowiki>[[http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/errno.h.html|Sysem error numbers]]</nowiki> in Linux per IEEE Std 1003.1-2008, 2016 Edition.
* <nowiki>[[Manpage:errno|errno man page]]</nowiki>

== HTML ==

Browsing the web sometimes results in errors, like the infamous "404 Not Found" message when a page on a website does not exist.
See the following for others codes and messages:

* <nowiki>[[https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html|HTTP/1.1 Status Code Definitions]]</nowiki> from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
* <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes|List of HTTP status codes]]</nowiki> on Wikipedia

== Other ==

<pre>
ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using password: YES)

ERROR 1049 (42000): Unknown database 'foobar'

Application initialization failed: couldn't connect to display :0.0

Argument list too long

audio: /dev/dsp: No such file or directory

automake: Makefile.am: not supported: source file foobar.c is in subdirectory

BAD PASSWORD: it's WAY too short

/bin/sh: bad interpreter: Permission denied

/bin/sh: bad interpreter: Text file busy

Cannot Allocate Memory

Can't read superblock

C++ compiler cannot create executables

codec_read: codec 0 is not valid 0xfe0000

Compatibility levels before 4 are deprecated

config.status: error: cannot find input file: src/Makefile.in

configure.ac: no proper invocation of AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE was found.

configure.ac: warning: macro 'AM_CXXFLAGS' not found in library

configure: error: Couldn't find required function socket

configure: error: source directory already configured; run "make distclean" there first

Connection closed by foreign host

could not set realtime priority

cpp: error trying to exec 'cc1plus': execvp: No such file or directory

db.h: No such file or directory

'DB_ENV' has no member named 'mp_size'

/dev/dsp: No such file or directory

device /dev/dsp can't be opened (Device or resource busy)

E: Could not open lock file /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (13 Permission denied)

E: Dynamic !MMap ran out of room

emerge: superuser access is required

E: Error occurred while processing xfmedia-dev (NewVersion1)

E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/foobar

E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.

E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), are you root?

Error opening /dev/mixer

error: termcap.h: No such file or directory

error: ../version.h: No such file or directory

File is corrupt or incomplete. (Digests do not match)

(gnome-obex-server:6848): WARNING : Unable to register SDP record for OPUSH

GRUB GRUB GRUB GRUB

GRUB loading stage 1.5.

GRUB loading, please wait...

login: Permission denied

make[1]: * [all-recursive] Error 1

make: * [all] Error 2

make[1]: Entering directory

make[1]: Leaving directory

make: *** No rule to make target `distclean'. Stop.

Makefile: : *** missing separator. Stop.

Makefile.am: required file `./depcomp' not found

Makefile.am: required file `./INSTALL' not found

Makefile.am: required file `./NEWS' not found

Makefile.am: required file `./README' not found

Makefile.am: required file `./AUTHORS' not found

Makefile.am: required file `./ChangeLog' not found

Makefile.am: required file `./COPYING' not found

mount: unknown filesystem type 'nfs'

mount: /foobar : can't read superblock

mysql said: ERROR 1049 (42000): Unknown database 'bugzilla'

nfs warning: mount version older than kernel

No Mail

No SMC Ultra card found

No utmp entry. You must exec "login" from the lowest level "sh"

Operation not permitted

/dev/dsp: Permission denied

Plain text password authentication is disallowed. Please try enabling SSL or TLS in your mail client.

Problem with internal logger

error opening mixer

Kernel Panic: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on 03:05

L99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99

ld: cannot find -lbdb

lp0 on fire

passwd: Authentication token lock busy

Please append a correct "root=" boot option

Segmentation fault

stellarium: error while loading shared libraries: libQtOpenGL.so.4: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

tar: This volume is out of sequence

telnetd: getpty: No such file or directory

Too many levels of symbolic links

VFS: Cannot open root device "hda5" or 03:05

warning: 'foo' is deprecated

Warning: Kernel & BIOS return differing head/sector geometries for device 0x80

Xlib: connection to :0.0 refused by server

Xlib: Client is not authorized to connect to Server

You Are Not Licensed To Access The Symbol

You do not have a listening peer-to-peer connection
</pre>

----
