{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


E-tax is software made by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) that enables Australian employers/employees and taxpayers to lodge their tax return online. Being a Windows program, it does not run natively on Ubuntu so you'll need to either use Wine or a VirtualBox set-up to run e-tax on Ubuntu.

You will need to grab the latest Windows version of e-tax from the ATO's website - http://www.ato.gov.au/Individuals/Lodging-your-tax-return/E-tax/

The latest version of e-tax as of writing was e-tax 2013.

=== E-tax on Ubuntu using Wine ===

To use e-tax on Ubuntu, you'll need to install Wine. Wine can be use to run Windows programs on Ubuntu. To install Wine, either run:

''sudo apt-get install wine''

Or open up the Ubuntu Software Centre and search for Wine - it's in the universe repository. You'll be likely to have better success if you're using a recent version of Ubuntu, namely 11.04 or 11.10, due to the Wine version being much more current.

The Wine application database reports that you need to install msxml4:

''winetricks msxml4''

Once you have installed Wine, you should be able to open the .msi etax2011 file you downloaded by right-clicking it and selecting, "Open with Wine Windows Program Loader"

If Wine does not run the program properly, you can also try using the command -

msiexec /i etax2011_1.msi

=== Links ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.winehq.org|Wine's homepage]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=28504|Wine App Database - e-tax]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ato.gov.au/individuals/pathway.aspx?sid=42&pc=001/002/014|E-tax website - general e-tax information]]</nowiki>
