{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Why use Ethernet over Firewire ===
- If you want to transfer data from computer to computer and you are limited to 100 Mbps (Firewire is 400/800 Mbps) <<BR>>
- If your one computer does not support ethernet (old eMacs) but when it has a Firewire port.

=== Support by other operating systems ===
- '''Mac OS X''' has one of the most user-friendly implementations where you can share your ethernet or WiFi connection via Firewire. <<BR>>
- '''FreeBSD''' <<BR>>
- '''Windows Me, XP and Windows Server 2003 all have native support''' <<BR>>

=== How to use Ethernet over FireWire (IPv4 over FireWire) ===
The Ubuntu kernel package already contains the necessary driver modules for IPv4 networking over !FireWire.  You need the '''firewire-ohci''' and '''firewire-core''' drivers for the FireWire controller, and the '''firewire-net''' driver to run the IPv4 protocol over !FireWire.

Run the following to activate the driver.
<pre>
sudo modprobe firewire-net
</pre>
 

To activate the connection during boot, a change in '/etc/network/interfaces' must be made.
<pre>
auto firewire0
iface firewire0 inet static
    address x.x.x.x
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    broadcast x.x.x.255
    pre-up modprobe firewire-net
</pre>
Replace the ''x'' by a static IP address in your local subnet.

Using a firewire cable and the above commands, you can have a network between two computers.

=== External Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE1394#Networking_over_FireWire|Networking over FireWire]]</nowiki> - Wikipedia page on IEEE 1394
* <nowiki>[[http://ieee1394.wiki.kernel.org/|Linux FireWire wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet over USB|Ethernet over USB]]</nowiki> - Wikipedia page on connecting Ethernet devices via USB, and USB as an Ethernet network.

=== Comments ===
eth1394 has been removed from the kernel since version 2.6.22 and it's task has been taken over by the 'firewire-net' module, <nowiki>[[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git;a=commit;h=66fa12c571d35e3cd62574c65f1785a460105397|source]]</nowiki>
