{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/evince/|Evince]]</nowiki> is a GTK+ PDF and PS viewer. Using <nowiki>[[http://mozplugger.mozdev.org/|mozplugger]]</nowiki> you can embed it into Mozilla and/or Firefox.

First make sure you have Evince and mozplugger installed, otherwise install with:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install evince mozplugger
</pre>

Now edit <code>/etc/mozpluggerrc</code>.
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/mozpluggerrc
</pre>

Look for these lines:
<pre>
application/pdf: pdf: PDF file
application/x-pdf: pdf: PDF file
text/pdf: pdf: PDF file
text/x-pdf: pdf: PDF file
</pre>

and these lines:
<pre>
application/x-postscript: ps: PostScript file
application/postscript: ps: PostScript file
</pre>

If the lines below are already in the config file under the PDF and PS sections, then you should be set. Otherwise, add the following line below them:
<pre>
repeat noisy swallow(evince) fill: evince "$file"
</pre>

Example:
<pre>
application/pdf: pdf: PDF file
application/x-pdf: pdf: PDF file
text/pdf: pdf: PDF file
text/x-pdf: pdf: PDF file
	repeat noisy swallow(evince) fill: evince "$file"
	repeat swallow(acrobatreader) fill: acroread -geometry +9000+9000 +useFrontEndProgram -tempFileTitle acrobatreader "$file"
	repeat noisy swallow(win) fill: xpdf -g +9000+9000 "$file"
	repeat noisy swallow(gv) fill: gv -safer -quiet -antialias -geometry +9000+9000 "$file"

application/x-postscript: ps: PostScript file
application/postscript: ps: PostScript file
	repeat noisy swallow(evince) fill: evince "$file"
	repeat noisy swallow(gv) fill: gv -safer -quiet -antialias -geometry +9000+9000 "$file"
	repeat swallow(Pageview) fill: pageview "$file"
</pre>

== Troubleshooting ==
Check if <nowiki>[[http://mozplugger.mozdev.org/|MozPlugger]]</nowiki> is correctly installed in Firefox. Type <code>about:plugins</code> as address in Firefox. It shows a list of all installed plugins and <nowiki>[[http://mozplugger.mozdev.org/|MozPlugger]]</nowiki> 1.6.0 must be there with a list of extensions.

If that's not the case:
Remove the automatic action for PDF files in Firefox:
<code>Edit -> Preferences -> Downloads</code>

Remove also potential pdf plugin(s): 
<code>Edit -> Preferences -> Download</code>, then click on the <code>plugins button</code> and disable the pdf extension

You need also to remove the plugins:

'''Close Firefox'''

The plugins are in that directory <code>/usr/lib/mozilla-firefox/plugins/</code>.

then
<pre>
rm ~/.mozilla/firefox/pluginreg.dat
</pre>

Finally reinstall MozPlugger

Now you should see the Plugin correctly installed with <code>about:plugins</code>.

Credits: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=25685&page=1&pp=10|Saik0]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://nawer.sanspub.org/dotclear/index.php?2005/07/29/75-evince-mozplugger-et-firefox-ou-le-pdf-rapide|BlogRabais]]</nowiki>

----
You can get a Chinese translation of this article <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.org.cn/EvinceMozilla|here]]</nowiki>.
----
