{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
ExpressCard is a high-performance replacement for the older Cardbus PC Card.

There are two standard formats: ExpressCard/34 (34mm x 75mm) and ExpressCard/54 (54mm x 75mm). The ExpressCard/54 slot is designed to accommodate the smaller ExpressCard/34 format. 

A wide range of cards are available such as Firewire, USB, eSATA, and TV Tuners.

See <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expresscard|Wikipedia]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.usb.org/developers/expresscard|usb.org]]</nowiki> for more information.

== Installation ==
The installation of a ExpressCard should be trivial. 

=== Enable Hot Plugging ===

==== PCI Express Hotplug ====
The default kernel has support for the ''PCI Express Hotplug driver''.

The kernel option <code>CONFIG_HOTPLUG_PCI_PCIE</code> should be set and you should have a module called ''pciehp'' in your system. 
<pre>
sudo modprobe pciehp pciehp_force=1
</pre>

==== ACPI PCI Hotplug ====
If the above ''pciehp'' driver does not work, try loading the ''ACPI PCI hotplug'' driver:
<pre>
sudo modprobe acpiphp
</pre>

==== Automatically load driver at startup ====
To load the above drivers at startup, edit <code>/etc/modules</code> file:
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/modules
</pre>
Add a new entry at the end of the file. e.g. <code>acpiphp</code>

----
==== Ubuntu 9.10 and onwards ====
Since Ubuntu 9.10 this option is compiled in so there is no such module. It is as if the module is always loaded.

To do the equivalent of this last command in Ubuntu 9.10 or 12.04, pass the <code>pciehp.pciehp_force=1</code> to the kernel by editing /etc/default/grub file( See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2|Grub2]]</nowiki> ). Add it to the line 
<pre>
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
</pre>
 so it appears as 
<pre>
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash pciehp.pciehp_force=1"
</pre>

Save and exit your text editor. Then run:

<pre>
sudo update-grub
</pre>
And reboot.

----
CategoryHardware
