{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


To make o2 Broadband E1752 Dongle Work on Ubuntu Lucid Lynx 10.04, usb-modeswitch has to be installed first on your machine and you have to configure it.

'''code'''
<pre>
sudo aptitude install usb-modeswitch
sudo gedit /etc/usb-modeswitch.conf
</pre>

This will create an empty file and copy the following line to configure the usb-modeswitch. 

<pre>

DefaultVendor= 0×12d1
DefaultProduct= 0×1446

TargetVendor= 0×12d1
TargetProdct= 0×1001

MessageEndpoint= 0×01

MessageContent= “55534243000000000000000000000011060000000000000000000000000000″
</pre>

Save it and exit. 

Then '''use the command'''

<pre>
sudo usb_modeswitch
</pre>

It should then connect.

With Ubuntu GNU/Linux 10.4 (Lucid Lynx), the packages usb-modeswitch and usb-modeswitch-data needs to be installed.

==== for older versions with Wvdail, the following will help ====

For Nokia, You can try app called wvdial.

first step is the installation of wvdial by type in terminal:

'''Code'''
<pre>
sudo apt-get install wvdial
</pre>

Input your administrator password(if needed).
Then you have to configure your modem first by typing

'''Code'''
<pre>
sudo wvdialconf
</pre>

then edit file /etc/wvdial.conf by typing

'''Code'''
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
</pre>

Add the following codes in the newly opened file and this will configure the wvdail

'''Code'''
<pre>
[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &amp;C1 &amp;D2 +FCLASS=0
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
New PPPD = yes
Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
ISDN = 0
Phone = *99#
Password = A
Username = B
Stupid Mode = 1
</pre>

Save the file.

All you have to do now is connect the Nokia by USB and then select Nokia Mode on the phone.you have to give the number you have to dail(depends on the network service provider) in "phone = " on the above codes.

'''Open a terminal and type'''
<pre>
sudo wvdial
</pre>

This opens the modem you're on the web.

'''Make sure that firefox is not working Offline (hors connexion) if you are unable to connect but can ping'''

----
CategoryNetworking CategoryInternet
