{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/s-moaddeli|s-moaddeli]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC Nick''':
| '''schoolinux''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Alternative Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Website''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.schoolinux.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I was born in Rasht on 1st. of July, 1982.
My hometown is Rasht, the center of Guilan province in Iran.

=== Degrees ===

* Graduated from <nowiki>[[http://www.nodet.net|NODET]]</nowiki> (National organization of development of exceptional talents) High school in Rasht.
* Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical engineering from <nowiki>[[http://guilan.ac.ir|Guilan University]]</nowiki>

=== Hobbies ===

I've been an Amateur astronomer since 1997, interested in observing deep sky objects and computational astronomy. I'm a member of <nowiki>[[http://roja.blogspot.com|Roja Society of Astronomy]]</nowiki>.

I enjoy reading and editing articles on <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org|Wikipedia]]</nowiki>. I've contributed some articles to <nowiki>[[http://fa.wikipedia.org|Persian Wikipedia]]</nowiki>. Most of them are science and astronomy-related articles.

=== Translation ===
I'm interested in translating scientific applications to my native language Persian. My translations on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/s-moaddeli/+translations|launchpad]]</nowiki>.
The one I recommend is <nowiki>[[http://www.stellarium.org|Stellarium]]</nowiki> Persian translation!

=== Open source and free software advocacy ===
I've been an advocate of GNU/Linux and free software in my hometown and anywhere else I was since 2003.

Accompanied by some friends including <nowiki>[[AzadeSanjari]]</nowiki>, we formed the Schoolinux Team and its club in Rasht and launched it with the first Linux and free software workshop in Rasht on April 2004.

More than 40 students from three high schools attended that single-day workshop became familiar with Linux OS and Free and Open source software.

The second workshop held on August 2004 was a triple session, each one had a topic. 70 teachers and students from <nowiki>[[http://guilan.schoolnet.ir|Guilan Schoolnet]]</nowiki> members took part in those workshops. The topics were:
* Introduction to Free and Open source software
* Linux Install session
* Linux desktop and commands introduction
Photos Are available <nowiki>[[http://edu-net-photo.blogspot.com/2004_08_01_edu-net-photo_archive.html|here]]</nowiki>.

The third one was a seminar presented by me and <nowiki>[[AzadeSanjari]]</nowiki> in annual <nowiki>[[http://www.schoolnet.ir|Iranian Schoolnet]]</nowiki> conference 2004 in Isfahan.
Schoolinux was also having a booth in the conference fair and handing out Linux manuals and <nowiki>[[http://www.shabdix.org|Shabdix]]</nowiki> Live disk (Knoppix based Persian distribution).
Photos Are available <nowiki>[[http://edu-net-photo.blogspot.com/2004_09_01_edu-net-photo_archive.html|here]]</nowiki>.

'''Schoolinux''' is now running in <nowiki>[[http://www.iearn.org/projects/schoolinux.html|iEARN]]</nowiki> and is aimed to be a Free and Open source software advocate there.
----
This is where i keep track of wiki pages I want:<nowiki>[[Saeed/links]]</nowiki>
--------
Related pages:
<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
