{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


I, Sahid Orentino Ferdjaoui, apply for per-package upload rights for the OpenStack package set.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Sahid Orentino Ferdjaoui
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sahid-ferdjaoui
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SahidOrentinoFerdjaoui/PerPackageApplication
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a software engineer on the !OpenStack Engineering team at Canonical.  I'm primarily focused on !OpenStack packaging for Ubuntu as well as Juju !OpenStack charm development.  Prior to joining Canonical, I was a software engineer working for Red Hat.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu in 2008 It was still possible to order live CD-ROM. I remember to have ordered a full package of 10 CDs and distributed them to my friends. Ubuntu is my main operating system.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
** I've participated in various packaging aspects including SRUs, CVE, merges, backports, fixes.
** Following are my uploads: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sahid-ferdjaoui/+uploaded-packages|Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>.
** I've started contributing in OpenStack in 2015 <nowiki>[[https://www.stackalytics.com/?metric=commits&user_id=sahid-ferdjaoui|Stackalytics]]</nowiki>.
** Following the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~sahid-ferdjaoui/+affectingbugs?field.searchtext=SRU&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=sahid-ferdjaoui&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=|SRUs]]</nowiki> that I was involved on. 
** Following the related <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/%7Esahid-ferdjaoui/+bugs?field.searchtext=charm&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|charm bugs]]</nowiki> that I'm involved on with plus ou moins d'interêt.
** A tool <nowiki>[[https://github.com/sahid/uosp|uosp]]</nowiki> to help me doing stable point releases and snaphots. There is a recipe to build new package <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~sahid-ferdjaoui/+recipe/uosp-daily|daily]]</nowiki> according changes in master.
** Finally I'm maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://libvirt.org/git/?p=libvirt-rust.git;a=summary|libvirt Rust]]</nowiki> binding.

=== Areas of work ===
I've primarily been working on !OpenStack packaging for new and stable releases.  I've participated in various packaging aspects including SRUs, CVE, syncs, merges, backports, fixes.

I've mostly worked with James Page and Corey Bryant on the !OpenStack packaging and I've also worked quite a bit with Brian Murray and Łukasz Zemczak from the SRU team as well, as they have reviewed most of the stable releases that I've worked on.  We've all collaborated well together and I appreciate all that they've taught me.

=== Things I could do better ===

There are several aspects that I could improve while I'm earning experience. It's interesting because OpenStack is quite large with lot of dependencies that I have to understand a bit better.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
From an individual aspect, I'm planning to improve the time I'm passing in bug triaging, I'm also planning to participate more in other areas such as mentoring, sponsoring. I'm also planing to improve our tooling when it is possible, James and Corey are already doing a huge work and my aim is to unload them.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
We are trying to do good work by just doing sync of our packages with Debian but we also have to maintain a bunch of them by our own without big reason It would be great to reduce such work. Also, our process to merge packages between Debian/Ubuntu is a bit hard to manage I'm sure we can make some progress by providing tools and good documentation.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

=== Corey Bryant ===
==== General feedback ====
I've been working closely with Sahid and sponsoring package uploads for him since early 2019. Sahid is an experienced upstream !OpenStack contributor who started contributing to the !OpenStack packages as well as other !OpenStack distribution activities earlier this year. His upstream experience is a great complement to his packaging work as he's able to actively contribute patches upstream, is familiar with the upstream !OpenStack release schedule and its alignment with Ubuntu, stays updated with upstream mailing lists, and generally has knowledge of how both upstream and downstream work.

Sahid has helped triage and fix bugs, has been involved in delivering several !OpenStack SRUs and has worked on delivering package updates for !OpenStack Train including merges and syncs. Sahid has worked hard to gain experience in all facets of distribution development activities, and I know that he will continue to work on improving his knowledge and skills.

I'm in favor of Sahid getting per package upload rights to the !OpenStack package set. Sahid is ready to contribute to the !OpenStack packages directly with his current set of knowledge. I'm confident that he knows his limits and will work with others as needed when he's not fully comfortable with a package change.

=== James Page ===
==== General feedback ====

I've worked with and helped sponsor Sahid's work within the context of Ubuntu !OpenStack since earlier this year.  Sahid has learn't packaging principles quickly, including producing some new tooling to help the team streamline the process of packaging snapshots of OpenStack projects during the development cycle.

Sahid has demonstrated good knowledge of both the SRU process and the main development process over the last year and has bought his knowledge of OpenStack Nova and the upstream development process to Ubuntu development.

I'm in support of Sahid receiving PPU rights for the !OpenStack package set.  I have confidence that if he finds himself in unknown territory he will always reach out for support rather than assuming the obvious approach is the correct approach!

----
=== TEMPLATE ===

<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
