{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
This page details the interface code that will exist between Lanuchpad, Malone and the Apex API of Salesforce.com.  

In the Ubuntu community a public bug tracking product is vital.  In the commercial community of interest (COI) you are selling private support contracts, negotiated in various standard commercial ways.  The interface between these two activities must be capable of extremely intelligent bilateral filtering in order to avoid conflicts of interests between the overall community and the Commercial COI.   

=== Rationale ===
This interface software is critical to the link between folks that are marketing the ubuntu service product as offered by Cannonical and others.  We will refer to this vital sub-community as the commercial Community of Interest (COI), and the rest of the Ubuntu community, which includes many other COIs, and may include, users, developers, consultants, and folks from nearly every walk of life on this planet.

This interface software must allow Launchpad, Malone and  other Ubuntu community components to "breathe" into Salesforce.com.  By "breathing" we mean that this process will allow the fundamentally same data to be available to  available in either or both software systems.
    
=== Use cases ===

For instance, suppose you sell an Ubuntu based system to  two bitter rivals, say Macys and Gimbles.  Macys discovers an arcane bug. Does Macys tell Gimbles?  Worse yet do you tell Gimbles that Macys has a bug?

Steve the Cannonical salesman wants to see what is up with the Current client, Macys Bank and Trust.  When he logs onto Salesforce, and inquires about the Macy's account, he discovers that they have 2 moderate priority support calls pending, and that one of these has been reported out to Malone as a CAB - (A commercial account bug).  From this he can call or message the client, point out how efficient the response is for the Ubuntu product, and ask if there is anything they need to enhance the proposal they are currently reviewing.

Paul, the systems support person with FITS, has a Salesforce account but does not care about the Malone process, he just wants to sell more Ubuntu support contracts in Vermont. Since FITS, his company, is part of the Cannonical syndicate, he can log on and see that his client, the Gimbles Bank and Trust company has placed a response to the Malone bug.  While he can see that his client Gimbles originated this response, he knows with full confidence that all the community sees with regard to this bug tracking and resolution is that this is taking place within the anatomized commercial space.  He marvels that the beauty of this system is that these two bitter rivals can cooperate to make the Ubuntu software system better.  he calls his client Gimbles and asks if the tickets for the meeting at the resort in the Dominican Republic are on their way, as he wants to talk to Gimbles about expanding their involvement. 

=== Scope ===

This interface is between Private Data (Salesforce) and the public data required by the community for but tracking. The need for strict adherence to a consensus information policy document will allow you to classify and separate
information so that only appropriate levels of data are  revealed at the proper times.

=== Design ===
This design will adopt a very "Top Down" approach.  This will include:

1. Policy Document 
2. Requirements Document
3. Test and Evaluation Plan 
4. Design Document / User Manual
5. Source Code
6. Test and Evaluation Report

The first step in the design of this interface will involve the development and/or review  of a Policy document that details overall community consensus interaction between community and commercial interests.  This policy document shall become the basis of a requirements document, which will detail the actual parameters of this interface design.  These requirements will be the basis of the tests that the software system will need to pass in the Test Driven Design process.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
