{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm Beninese, living in Beijing, China. I'm a Thinker, I watch in Real Time all the Technologies Trends as well as World Development. In my day to day I build User Centric Softwares. and as you may have guessed I use Ubuntu as my Operating System to build those softwares. After I found the awesome spirit of the OS, i decided to devote part of my time to spread the word by evangelizing it every time i can. More details at <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/in/salimane/|http://www.linkedin.com/in/salimane]]</nowiki>.

=== Why do I do Ubuntu? ===

Because before trying Ubuntu, I've used other distributions and was not satisfied from a user perspective. When I started using Ubuntu, I felt this was it, this is what Linux needs to emerge on the desktop. Every release was pushing the envelope around User Experience to make Linux as easy as other Operating Systems. I also like the spirit of signing a Code of Conduct to educate the "open source world", because as hard as i believe in Open Source and Linux, we have some problems that are blocking us from the mass

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~salimane
|-
| Website
| http://theindexer.wordpress.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

I keep a blog to help new users have a great experience after their Ubuntu installation. I do this for every release. 
I download nightly builds of upcoming releases and test them in order to submit bugs to help make the releases even better.
I follow the Ubuntu Community in order to know what's going on behind the distribution
I converted many windows users to Ubuntu by showing them the awesomeness of Ubuntu.

=== Plans and ideas for Ubuntu ===

I would like to continue doing what I'm doing and learn more about the philosophy about Ubuntu, then hopefully introduce the operating system in my home country to be used on user desktops, government institutions...
