{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello. I am Salman Mohammadi. I have been a member of Ubuntu Iranian Team for some years. 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| moha on irc.Freenode.net
|-
| Email
| salman|at|ubuntu|dot|ir
|-
| Ubuntu-ir Forum Profile
| <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu.ir/index.php?action=profile;u=35452|salmaan]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~salman.m|salman.m]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have been the 6th most active user by number of posts (2898 posts as of May 2016) and I have tried to help as many users as possible whether they are novice or not. I help other contributors to manage the Persian Community of Ubuntu by preparing the Persian Website of Ubuntu and its forum.

=== Future Goals ===
My future goal is helping Ubuntu users find their path thru the light of free software.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
