{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a passionate software engineer with a strong interest in technology. I am currently working as a software developer. I am also a member of the Ubuntu translation team, where I help to translate the Ubuntu operating system into Italian. I am also active in the local Ubuntu community, where I help to organize events and meetups.

I am particularly passionate about making technology more accessible to everyone. I believe that everyone should have the opportunity to use technology, regardless of their language or location. My work on the Ubuntu translation team is a way for me to make this vision a reality.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| info@salvatorecocuzza.it
|-
| Website
| https://www.salvatorecocuzza.it
|}

=== Contributions ===

My dedication to the Italian translation of Ubuntu stands as my most significant contribution to the project. Through my efforts, I have translated a substantial portion of the operating system into Italian, making it accessible to millions of individuals across Italy and the globe. Furthermore, my meticulous attention to detail has resulted in the correction of numerous bugs within the translation, ensuring its accuracy and enhancing its readability for Italian users. This unwavering commitment has not only expanded Ubuntu's reach to a broader audience but has also elevated the overall quality of the Italian translation, fostering a more seamless user experience.

=== Future Goals ===

I am passionate about cybersecurity and I am looking to learn more about this field. I believe that cybersecurity is essential for protecting people and organizations from online threats. I am also interested in working on projects that can help to make technology more accessible to everyone.

I am committed to continuing my work on the Ubuntu translation team. I believe that my work is making a positive impact on the world, and I am excited to see what the future holds.
