{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About Me ==

My name is Sam Rose, I am 19 years old and I am currently studying a degree in Computer Science (about to go into my second year). I am really interesting in getting involved in Open Source projects because I have been benefiting from them for a number of years now and I feel it is time for me to give back to the community.

Recently I have been coding a lot in PHP (and the other web design languages like HTML, Javascript etc.) but I am able to write programs in Java, C++ and a little bit of Python. I tend to learn pretty quickly when it comes to computer related things, picking up new things has never been much of a problem for me.

I keep a blog and it can be found at http://lbak.co.uk/blog :)

== Ubuntu and me ==

I started using Ubuntu roughly a year ago but it is only in the last few months that I really got the feel for it and made the switch from Windows entirely. It has been about 6 months since I logged into my Windows partition to do anything other than play Diablo 2 or Warcraft 3.

I really enjoy the sense of real freedom that you get. It really suits my mindset to be able to explore everything about the software I am using (even though I will openly admit I am a newbie at it and rarely know exactly what I am doing!). I love to learn new things and expand my knowledge of computing and Ubuntu really lets me do this in a friendly and easy to use environment.

== Areas of Interest ==

I don't really have a specific area of interest. I just want to learn how it all works and I will happily help out in any area just to gather experience and give back to the project.

== Availability ==

I'm pretty easy to contact. My email address is samwho@lbak.co.uk (Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~samwho) and I'm in the UTC timezone (which I believe is the same as GMT?) so I'm usually available from when I wake up to when I go to bed which is roughly midday to 4am provided that I am not attending lectures at University or eating junk food while gaming with my housemates.

----
CategoryHomepage
