{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

XSD Series Sand Washing Machine is a kind of wheeled washing equipment, and can clean and separate the dust and powder from the sand. Its new seal-structure and reliable driving device can make sure the cleaning effective and a kind of high efficiency sand washing equipment matched with the Sand Making Machine. Sand Washing Machine are mainly used in building site, gravel plant, concrete dam building site of hydropower station, etc., and with features of high degree cleaning-up, reasonable structure, large capacity, low power consumption, small loss of the sands during the washing process, especially for that the drive parts of the Sand Washing Machine are separated from water and sands. So that it has lower failure rate than the usual Sand Washing Machine

Operating principle of Sand Washing Machine:

The electric motor runs slowly with the impellor after decelerated by the belt, decelerator and gears wheel. The sand and stone flow into washing launder from feeding launder, rolls with the impellor, and grinds each other. The impurity covering the sand is washing away. At the same time, add more water, the strong water flow will take away waste and some low-weight wastes from washing launder. Through the above process, the washing function is finished. The clean sand and stone is lift up by vane. When it goes up slowly, the water begins to drop through the mesh and fall back in the washing launder. On one hand, water is removed from the sand and stone; on the other hand, the water can be fully used. Finally, the sand and stone goes to the out launder from the rotary impellor to finish the washing task. Characteristics of Sand Washing Machine: Reasonable structure, Large capacity, Low consumption, Little loss of the sand during the washing process, Low failure rate. 
 
Web:
http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
