{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sandyd/|sandyd]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''sandyd''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=717412|sandyd]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Website''':
| <nowiki>[[http://dolphinaura.com|Sandyd's Home]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Formerly known as''':
| carlee
|}
== About Me ==
I discovered Ubuntu after fighting off a multitude of virus infections, which ended up in tonnes of lost data. Unable to find the original key for Windows, and finding my recovery partition infected as well, I decided to look for an alternative to Windows.

I found Ubuntu first, at version 6.04. Back then, I had one of those highly-unsupported and garbage sis video cards. As a result, Xorg and I fought a lot. Eventually, I went back to Windows. I came back at version 8.04 with a new laptop, curious about how Ubuntu has progressed, and eager to give it a second try. Since then, I've been on the forums.

I also run Ubuntu on my computers at home (dual boot), and on all my servers with Ubuntu Cloud, other than the FreeBSD Gateway.

== Professional Work ==
I work as a Audio/Video production specialist at an undisclosed company due to work contracts.

Formerly worked for a datacenter, but was highly unsatisfied with the work times, and left after moving to Los Angeles.
== Contributions ==
 {*} Bug Reporting

 {*} Providing Assistance on IRC Chatrooms

 {*} Helping users at the Ubuntu Forums

 {*} Proposing Ideas at Ubuntu Brainstorm

My main contributions have been in the Ubuntu Forums, where I offer friendly advice, mainly to newbies. I also formerly developed the now-defunct Adobe Flash Tools in the forums.

Occasionally, when I do get ideas, I propose them into Ubuntu Brainstorm.

I also eat tonnes of spam posts, and report posts to be moved.

== Future Goals ==
 {*} I am planning to continue using Ubuntu on my server equipment, and participate on the Ubuntu Forums.

 {*} Create a video promoting Ubuntu. (In Progress)

== Testimonials ==
'''Thank you in advance for adding your testimonial!!!'''

==== Caboose885 ====
I have worked with Sandyd on IRC and the forums. Her great sense of humor and in depth knowledge of systems make her a wonderful person to work with. I'm honored to have the priveledge to pick her brain for any questions I might have.
