{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== The SII Team Meeting ==

=== Where and When ===

Place
* IRC: irc.freenode.org
* Channel: #sii
* <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=sii | Webchat link]]</nowiki>

Time

* <nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20120303T20 | Sunday, 3rd March, 2012, 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
==== Chair ====

Chair will be <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| Everybody
| Show of hands to gauge attendance
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dante-ashton]]</nowiki>
| Introduction
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from QA meeting and team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Unit193]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from IRC OP's team
|-
| <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from comms team
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Support Team
|-
| <nowiki>[[gilir]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Devs teams
|-
| <nowiki>[[MrChrisDruif]]</nowiki>
| Weekly report - Update from Docs team
|}
