{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm Sangkon Han, and I'm a member of the Ubuntu Korea community. I organize and distribute information on Linux installation and troubleshooting, and plan events to deliver useful articles and information to Korean Ubuntu users.

I started using Linux in the early 2000s, starting with Slackware (http://www.slackware.com/) and Debian (https://www.debian.org/) in Busan, Korea, and started using Ubuntu (https://ubuntu.com/) in April 2010, and have been active in the Korean community since 2010. 

While I was a moderator in the Korean community, I mainly organized local meetups. Not only in Korea, but also in most countries, the community is active mainly in large cities, and I tried to connect with users in small cities. 

I am currently conducting research related to programming languages at Pusan National University, and at the same time, I am designing and implementing a recommendation system at a small company.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email (Personal)
| sigmadream@gmail.com
|-
| Email (LoCo)
| sangkon@ubuntu-kr.org
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sigmadream|Sangkon Han]]</nowiki>
|-
| Github
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/sigmadream/|SigmaDream]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| https://sangkon.com
|}

=== Contributions ===
Most of my contributions are related to running the Korean Ubuntu community and helping users with how-to's and troubleshooting.

** Organizer of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCo|LoCo]]</nowiki> in Korea for about 10 years (2013.01-present)
*** Organized regular seminars, workshops, group studies, and many other activities to advocate for Ubuntu and its community. Made various presentations and helped people to utilize Ubuntu and related projects.
** I organized and hosted Ubucon 2023/2024.
*** <nowiki>[[https://2023.ubuntu-kr.org|UbuCon 2023 in Korea]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://2024.ubuntu-kr.org|UbuCon 2024 in Korea]]</nowiki>
** I organized and participated in local meetups in 2023/2024.
*** <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-23-10-release-party-installfest-in-busan-is-successfully-completed/40438|Ubuntu 23.10 Release Party + InstallFest @Busan]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-24-04-installfest-workshop-in-busan-is-successfully-completed/44730|Ubuntu 24.04 InstallFest + Workshop @Busan]]</nowiki>
** Contributed to connecting the Ubuntu and open source community with smaller regions.
*** Organized and hosted the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuCon|UbuCon Asia 2022]]</nowiki> event.
**** <nowiki>[[https://2022.ubucon.asia|UbuCon Asia 2022 HomePage]]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuconAsia/2022|UbuCon Asia 2022 Wiki]]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki>[[https://2022.ubucon.asia/news/2023-02-04-post-event-report|UbuCon Asia 2022 Post Event Report]]</nowiki>
** Connected with other FOSS communities in Korea to share various presentations and experiences.

=== Further Goals ===

** To help new users, share new information through various events, modernize web services (website, forums, wiki, etc.), and manage the Korean(LoCo administration).

*** Continue to advocate and encourage Korean Ubuntu users to contribute to Ubuntu or related projects, and continue to discuss basic approaches such as installation via <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLMEHjJAUne9ZZsVQR2q0Sb9G4wn3CiOif|YouTube]]</nowiki>, etc.

** Helping to organize events across Asia.
