{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 40%">'''Launchpad'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~santhoshinbang|santhoshinbang]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail'''
| 
| <(>santhoshinbang@gmail.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| 
| <(>'''Gigacore''' on freenode
|-
| '''Twitter'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/Gigacore|@Gigacore]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Facebook'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/santhoshs|Santhosh Sundar]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Location'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bangalore|Bangalore, India]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog'''
| 
| <(><nowiki>[[http://santhosh.themebin.com/blog/|santhosh.themebin.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

Hello! I am Santhosh S from Bangalore, India. I am a student of Bachelor in Science (Computer Science and Geology) at Bangalore University. Apart from studies, I am a Open Source enthusiast. I am linux user since fall 2005 and started off with Red Hat 3. I ended up in love with Ubuntu from mid 2006 after joining the Think Digit forum where many people inspired me to start using it. 

Also, I am a Open Source / Freelancing Web Designer. I've released a bunch of free and open source xHTML web templates on <nowiki>[[http://www.opendesigns.org/profile/Gigacore/|OpenDesigns]]</nowiki> and Wordpress themes on few reputed sites and my blog. 

=== Contributions ===

As of now, I've got no 'major' contribution towards Ubuntu yet except driving my friends to start using it and supporting them during their state of transition from windows to linux or from one distro to the other. Since I am still getting started with the BugSquad team, I am sure that I will start to contribute in much larger proportion than just bug triaging.

=== Area of Interests ===

Myself being web designer, I love to design. And so, I also like to contribute towards Ubuntu's design/artwork team besides dealing more with GUI related bugs in Window Managers like GNOME, KDE and XFCE etc in the BugSquad (hopefully). 

Also being a Webmaster, I am a founder of couple of websites. Apart from these, since am a Geology student at the same time, I love dealing with environmental issues and learning different geological activities and phenomena. 

=== Availability ===

My timezone is UTC +05:30. I can spend my time in BugSquad team and doing other activities between 14:00 UTC to ~19:00 UTC usually everyday.
----
