{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} Name
| Istimsak Abdulbasir
|-
| Email
| saqman2060@gmail.com
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} Launchpad Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~saqman2060|Istimsak Abdulbasir]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC
| sak on IRC.freenode.net
|-
| Linux Foundation
| <nowiki>[[https://www.linux.com/community/forums/person/13985|saqman2060]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

Computers have become an essential tool to the improvement of human evolution. Because of this knowledge, I have been inspired to learn all I can about computer operations and the impact they will have on society. The Internet is the most valuable technology invented and it is a must to find ways to connect to it to enjoy the vast amount of information it provides. You can't grow a business, help clients, patients, friends, family, take classes online or change careers without the assistance of the web.

=== First time with Ubuntu ===

I came across Ubuntu when I was employed at a data recovery company. A co-worker introduced this unique system and said it was a free operating system. I have heard about Linux when studying computers but never saw the need to research it. Windows was and still is the dominate operating system. I had some free time and decided to give Ubuntu a try.

8.04 LTS (Hardy Heron) was the name of the system. Tested the system using its live-user session. Did not know you could use an operating system in this way. Only performing basic functions, it was pretty easy to use. I took the leap and installed it to my hard drive. I have been using Ubuntu up to 14.04 LTS.

=== My involvement with the Ubuntu Community ===

Was very surprised how well Ubuntu operated, especially for me. I felt an obligation to give back to the developers for taking the time to create such a great OS that was freely available to download. I search for ubuntu online and came across <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>. I learned the objectives of Ubuntu and the possibilities of contribution. This was when I learned of Ubuntu's inventor, "Mark Shuttleworth" the man who give Ubuntu life. His idea is to make a free, clean and easy linux OS for the desktop and server. Glad he thought of this. Ubuntu made learning Linux much easier.

==== Ubuntu QATeam ====

After looking through the Ubuntu community online, I came across a contribution section call Ubuntu Quality Assurance, e.g, <nowiki>[[http://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/quality/|QATeam]]</nowiki>. This contribution section was ran by a team responsible for testing new developing releases of the Ubuntu. There will always be new versions of Ubuntu as there will always be new versions of software. It is logical to have a stage where these systems go through a series of tests to assure functionality. The QA team tests ISO images, and software packages. They submit their results back to the Ubuntu developers. The Ubuntu developers use these results to fine tune the system before public release. 

As a member of the ubuntu QATeam, it is my responsibility to track down and system bugs or instability and report them back to the developers. The faster bugs are found, the quicker they can be patched, the stronger Ubuntu becomes. The way Ubuntu evolves is through contributions. 

=== My involvement with The Linux Foundation ===

==== LinuxDotcom ====

I am part of more than the Ubuntu Community. Linux is the the core software that powers Ubuntu, and to better understand Ubuntu is to understand the world of Linux. The inventor of Linux is no other than the respected programmer and visionary Linus Tarvolds. Linux, the software between the computer's hardware and Ubuntu, powers other major Linux based operating systems like RedHat, Debian, Slackware, CentOS, OpenSuse, Mint and other Linux distributions. Learning Ubuntu inspired me to go back to where it all began. One of the places that helped me learn more about Linux and to communicate with some of its developers was <nowiki>[[https://www.linux.com/|linux.com]]</nowiki>. Linux is making headline news in the world of computing and changing people's lives everyday. The majority of the Internet is powered by Linux. Some of the famous mobile devices(smartphones, tablets) use Linux and Linux is becoming the de facto standard in "Cloud Computing" and other technical initiatives. 

==== The Linux Initiation ====

Linux has change so many things in computing. It is not just a piece of software. It is a guideline that teaches people the importance of working together to accomplish great things. Remember, a war is not fought and won by one man.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me, write something.

For what I've seen of Istimsak so far, he's a great guy who has helped the QA Team a lot. I wholeheartedly recommend him for membership when he chooses to try for that.
