{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm Seth Arnold, I've been a member of the Ubuntu Security Team since
September, 2012. I live in Portland, Oregon, USA.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| sarnold
|-
| Email
| seth.arnold@canonical.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~seth-arnold
|}

=== Contributions ===

I've reviewed scores of packages as part of the UbuntuMainInclusionRequirements
process, and performed several security updates. I've worked on AppArmor
since December, 2000.

=== Future Goals ===

Secure all the things.

=== IRCC nomination ===

I'm putting myself forward for a position on the Ubuntu IRC Council. I'm not (yet) an Ubuntu Member, but I've signed up for the 6 May 2021 membership meeting.

I've been using IRC for over 25 years. I was part of efnet's #irchelp in the 90s, joined OFTC staff shortly after it was formed, and again several years ago. As part of an OFTC/freenode staff exchange, I was temporarily on staff with freenode fifteen years ago.

I'm currently on OFTC NOC and have operator privileges in several Ubuntu channels and a handful of other channels.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Seth is a really great, knowledgeable member of the Ubuntu Security Team. I first met him through my contributions to Universe security updates and I have come to know him as a wonderful, passionate member of the Ubuntu family who really cares about Ubuntu's security. There is no doubt in my mind that he would be a great Ubuntu member; he should have applied years ago. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsimonq2]]</nowiki> 
[For Ubuntu Membership] Speaking as a member of the community (and not with any of my many hats at the time of this post), Seth is an extremely knowledgeable member of the community.  He has been extremely helpful to users on #ubuntu-server, and a long time member of the Ubuntu Security Team.  Seth has been active on IRC and other support mediums as well as mailing lists and has a long history of contributions as a member of the Security team.  I wholeheartedly support Seth 100% for Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:teward]]</nowiki>  
