{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Robert Hooker, apply for upload rights for the xorg packageset.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Robert Hooker
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sarvatt
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Sarvatt
|}

== Who I am ==
''Tell us a bit about yourself.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Bryce Harrington ===
==== General feedback ====
Sarvatt has been contributing to Ubuntu's X.org stack for years now.  Initially he helped by testing and suggesting patches, then moved to doing packaging changes in PPAs, particularly the very important xorg-edgers repository.  I've sponsored bunches of his X.org package uploads and trust him implicitly.  He's good about working with upstream.  Recently he's joined Canonical to work on the Hardware Enablement team, where he diagnoses X and kernel issues, merges code from upstream, and files SRUs.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Most all the package uploads I sponsor need no comment and I just send them straight through.  He always tests stuff himself, so for the rare times I catch something, it'll be for something minor - a typo or a non-regression goof.  He's quick to fix issues once they're identified.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None

=== Chris Halse Rogers ===
==== General feedback ====
Robert is on-the-ball with X stuff; he's well aware of all the relevant policy issues, he tracks upstream development, is aware of many of the various pitfalls that litter the X stack, and is active in the upstream Debian-X team.  It's past time that he got upload privileges to an X package set.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Robert has worked with us on the X team for some time now, first as a community contributor, and now in Hardware Enablement.  He largely maintains the xorg-edgers PPA and associated scripting tools, which have been a valuable tool in testing.  The packages I've sponsored of his have been almost uniformly right first time; those uploads with problems have been the sort of minor problems that ''I'' sometimes make, and about the same frequency.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
If anything, confidence.  Robert is well versed in the X stack, but has sometimes sought my second opinion for something which was clearly correct - although this was no problem, as it would need sponsoring anyway.  Hopefully with upload privileges he can calibrate his “need to ask” threshold to better match his (excellent) grasp of the relevant issues :).

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Robert has done an amazing job on the X team. Whenever I was in touch with him, he was professional and found fixes for problems very quickly. What amazed me most was his ability to debug problems and find or write fixes. I would definitely trust him with upload rights, be it for X stuff or more.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Apart from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libimobiledevice/1.1.1-3ubuntu1|libimobiledevice fix I sponsored]]</nowiki>, everything else was syncs, which were easy to sign off. 

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11-session-utils/+bug/915462
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxext/+bug/705010
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxt/+bug/705003
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxi/+bug/705001
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-xf86dri/+bug/704996
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-xf86vidmode/+bug/704995
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xutils-dev/+bug/704994
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-resource/+bug/704992
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-print/+bug/704991
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-dmx/+bug/704989
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-xinerama/+bug/704986
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/x11proto-core/+bug/704983
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-r128/+bug/589540
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xf86-input-evtouch/+bug/589535
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-mga/+bug/589531
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-vesa/+bug/589530
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxprintutil/+bug/589528

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
