{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Robert Hooker, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Robert Hooker
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sarvatt
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Sarvatt
|}

== Who I am ==
''Tell us a bit about yourself.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

=== Bryce Harrington ===
==== General feedback ====
Sarvatt has been contributing to Ubuntu's X.org stack for years now.  Initially he helped by testing and suggesting patches, then moved to doing packaging changes in PPAs.  He has been instrumental in maintaining the very important xorg-edgers repository.  Even though that repository is advertised as bleeding edge unstable code, he's put in much effort to resolving problems and keeping it as stable as possible - talents he applies equally to the Ubuntu release itself.  He has also been very involved in chasing down X.org bugs and finding/testing/packaging patches.  I've sponsored bunches of his X.org package uploads and trust him implicitly.  He's good about working with upstream and getting patches sent back upstream where appropriate (better than I am anyway).

Recently he's joined Canonical to work on the Hardware Enablement team, where I've been sponsoring X.org SRUs.  Yes, that's probably about the scariest kinds of packaging there is to do in Ubuntu!  But he's been doing great at it.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Most all the package uploads I sponsor need no comment and I just send them straight through.  He always tests stuff himself, so for the rare times I catch something, it'll be for something minor - a typo or a non-regression goof.  He's quick to fix issues once they're identified.

Over the past couple years when I was the sole X.org guy at Canonical, I relied heavily on Sarvatt's advice, testing, and sanity checking.  Indeed, even today he gave me some good tips for Wayland packaging to avoid problems I hadn't yet run into.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
