{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hseagle2015|hseagle2015]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x66C23BCAE1A9041D497E38AE6671F7ADCB237D17&op=index|1024D/CB237D17]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=315560|hseagle2015]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''sale''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|}

=== About me ===

My name is Saša Teković (pronounced: Sasha Tekovich). I started using GNU/Linux operating system couple of years ago when I first met with Debian GNU/Linux 3.1 Sarge. Since Debian isn't really the best distribution for absolute Linux beginners, I decided to search for an alternative. Soon after, I found Ubuntu 6.06 Dapper Drake.

I really like to customize things and play with various settings and options, but on the other hand, I also like to see that OS can recognize all the hardware and be able to work "out of the box". The fact that Ubuntu is designed to work "out of the box" and that is flexible in terms of customization made me a big fan of GNU/Linux and Ubuntu itself.

=== My contributions ===

I've always been a supporter of freeware, Open source and Free Software movement and I've always wanted to give something back to the community that was developing free software that I found useful. Since my humble programming skills aren't good enough to join other software developers, I decided to help Croatian Ubuntu community by translating Ubuntu packages to Croatian language. I'm also doing my best to help new GNU/Linux users (i.e. former Windows users) to adapt to new environment by answering their questions and sharing my (still limited) knowledge. I mainly answer beginner's questions on Croatian Ubuntu community '''<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-hr.org/forum|forum]]</nowiki>''', but every now and then I answer and solve couple of questions/problems on '''<nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu|Launchpad.net]]</nowiki>'''.

=== My future plans ===

Although I don't have a lot of free time to enjoy things I really love, I'm planning to expand my current contribution to the Ubuntu community by testing beta software and reporting bugs.
