{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

I'm Satyajit Sahoo. I'm passionate about Open Source and Linux and mostly love to contribute artwork to various projects. I have experience making in GTK and GNOME Shell themes. I am also a member of Artwork Team of Ubuntu GNOME and Xubuntu.

Aside from artwork, I like to play with code (mostly bash) in my leisure. I also have basic knowledge in web development.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~satyajit-happy
|-
| GitHub
| https://github.com/satya164
|-
| IRC
| satya164@irc.freenode.org
|-
| GTalk
| satyajit.happy@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| satyajit.happy@gmail.com
|-
| deviantART
| http://satya164.deviantart.com/
|-
| Blog
| http://wibblystuff.blogspot.com/
|-
| Google+
| http://plus.google.com/114564489020097923600
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Contributions as a Ubuntu GNOME and Xubuntu Team developer, member, and tester:
** Contributor to the Shimmer Project including testing and artwork
** Testing pre- and post-release Ubuntu GNOME and Xubuntu Live CDs, installation, and stability
* Active maintainer of the following projects:
** '''Greybird''' (mostly the GTK3 portion) which is the default theme in Xubuntu  (<nowiki>[[https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird|GitHub]]</nowiki>)
** '''GTK Theme Configuration''' as found in Xubuntu (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gtk-theme-config|Launchpad]]</nowiki>)
** '''Elegance Colors''', an app for customizing and creating GNOME Shell themes (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/elegance-colors|Launchpad]]</nowiki>)
** '''Numix Project''' which includes various artworks ranging from icon themes to GTK themes and wallpapers (<nowiki>[[http://numixproject.org|Website]]</nowiki>)
* Contributor to various community projects:
** '''Y PPA Manager''', a tool to manage Ubuntu PPAs (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/y-ppa-manager|Launchpad]]</nowiki>)
** '''AP Hotspot''', a tool to create infrastructure wireless hotspot in Ubuntu (<nowiki>[[https://github.com/hotice/AP-Hotspot|GitHub]]</nowiki>)

=== Future Goals ===

* Continued contributions to the Ubuntu GNOME, Xubuntu and the Ubuntu ecosystem.
* Continued maintenance of Ubuntu GNOME and Xubuntu Artwork.

=== Testimonials ===
