{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing  Ubuntu GNOME 13.10, the Saucy Salamander, for distribution in October 2013. With this early Alpha pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Ubuntu GNOME Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Uubuntu GNOME Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu GNOME developers

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME 13.10 Alpha 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/saucy/alpha-2/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.org/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/saucy/alpha-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Alpha 2 Highlights ==

=== Software Updates ===

* Most of GNOME 3.8 is now included. See the <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.8/ | GNOME release notes]]</nowiki> for more details.

* The new GNOME Classic session is included. To try it, choose it from the Sessions option on the login screen.

* Ubuntu Online Accounts is no longer included by default (Bug:1040193). If you'd like to install it, install gnome-control-center-signon, evolution-data-server-uoa, and whichever of the account-plugin-* packages you want to use.

=== Select Fixed Bugs Since Alpha 1 ===

* If GNOME Shell is used with lightdm, the lock screen won't show the characters entered into the password dialog. You can still type your password in and hit enter to unlock. We recommend you use gdm (which is the default in Ubuntu GNOME) (Bug:1181632).

* The Accounts menu item in Empathy opens the Ubuntu Online Accounts dialog instead of the Empathy Accounts dialog. As a workaround, run ''empathy-accounts'' manually. (<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/701903|BGO:701903]]</nowiki>)

* GNOME Online Accounts doesn't handle Google Two-Factor Authentication properly. (<nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/688364|BGO:688364]]</nowiki>). 

* The Firefox homepage isn't fully functional (Bug:1195367)

* Ownloud file support is now enabled in gvfs (Bug:1200827)

* Power menu is missing in GNOME Shell. (Bug:1195093)

* Hibernate button in user menu won't work since hibernate is disabled by default in Ubuntu (Bug:1191181)

* The installer doesn't show an app icon when running (Bug:1164573)

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Alpha 2 Saucy Salamander snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.10.0-5.14 |3.10.0-5.14 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.10.2.tar.xz|v3.10.2 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>.  The 3.10 release contains improvements in SSD caching and Radeon graphics drivers; additional highlights are described <nowiki>[[https://www.linux.com/news/software/linux-kernel/726896-5-intriguing-new-features-in-linux-310|here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Problems ==

=== Ubuntu GNOME Desktop ===

* The installer freezes if you select the Install Alongside option in the "Install Ubuntu GNOME" standalone ubiquity mode. It works if you choose Try Ubuntu and run the installer from the live session instead (Bug:1204765).

* Ubiquity panel crashes at the "Try Ubuntu GNOME" screen, this causes 2 entirely harmless crash messages after logging into the live session (Bug:1204290 and Bug:1204289)

* System Settings crashes when changing background (Bug:1196196)

* Background Settings shows wallpapers slowly and too small (Bug:1205562)

* Installer slideshow needs to be updated (Bug:1154715)

* GNOME Documents won't run (Bug:1205997)

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu Gnome 13.10, the Saucy Salamander is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

You can contact us at:

Website: http://ubuntugnome.org

IRC: #ubuntu-gnome on the freenode network

Mailing List: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-gnome
