{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== New Features in Lubuntu 13.04 Beta 2 ==

As with all alphas and betas they are not suitable for a production environment. This Beta2 testing release of Lubuntu contains:

* Updated kernel (3.8 series).
* New theme (Artwork).
* New installer slide show (Desktop install).
* 1st Beta release of armhf+ac100.
 
=== Lubuntu Applications ===

* Based on the lightweight LXDE desktop environment.
* Pcmanfm, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* Lightdm, using the simple GTK greeter.
* Chromium, the open-source version of Google Chrome.
* For more detail, please see the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Applications | full list of applications]]</nowiki>.

=== System Requirements ===

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with a standard lubuntu desktop.

13.04 32 bit ISO require your CPU to have Physical Address Extensions, or PAE. "PAE is provided by Intel Pentium Pro and above CPUs, including all later Pentium-series processors (except most 400 MHz-bus versions of the Pentium M)." - If you have a NON-PAE CPU and would like to install Lubuntu 12.10, please see <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-install-ubuntu-1210-on-non-pae.html | this link]]</nowiki> or you can use 12.04 instead.

For PowerPC, it is known to run on a G4 running at 867MHz with 640MB RAM. 

For Intel based Macs, lubuntu should run on all models.

== Known Issues ==
=== Installation ===
* PPC has several issues and workarounds, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/PPC |documentation on the wiki]]</nowiki>.
* The PPC iso's are over sized.
* Guided install has a bug when selecting 'max' <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1163908 | Bug 1163908]]</nowiki>.
* Desktop installs may still be affected by a ubiquity bug <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1080701 | Bug 1080701]]</nowiki>.

=== Graphics and Display ===

* PPC issued are detailed above.

=== Applications ===
 
* None.

== Support ==

* 9 months.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs | Contact us]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing | Testing area]]</nowiki>.
== Download ==
As Alpha's and Beta's are rarely available from torrents, I do ask that you use the '''mirror''' link when it is available. 

The Beta 2 can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://phillw.net/isos/lubuntu/raring/beta-2/ | mirror]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/raring/beta-2/ | here]]</nowiki>.
