{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Xubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander, for distribution in October 2013. With this Beta pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an beta pre-release. 
Xubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Xubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Xubuntu developers

== Getting Xubuntu 13.10 Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-2/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-2/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 2 Highlights ==

=== New software versions ===

* A new version of xfce4-settings has been uploaded bringing amongst other things a new dialog to set up your displays
* A tool for changing your theme colors easily, gtk-theme-config, has been added to the default installation

=== Xubuntu Desktop ===
* New wallpaper
* New releases of our Gtk themes (with Gtk3.10 support) as well ast the LightDM greeter, fixing many visual bugs
* Updated documentation

== Known Problems ==
* Session logout takes too long (Bug:1227212)
* No restart-option in the greeter (Bug:1226509)
* indicator-sound no longer functions with xfce4-indicator-plugin (Bug:1208204)
* Abiword's ruler is black on dark themes (Bug:1031137)
* Gmusicbrowser's albuminfo-plugin is deactivated by default and causes the app to hang if enabled (Bug:1223808)

== Feedback ==

Development of Xubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Leaders|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
