{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Ubuntu GNOME 13.10 ==
'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME | Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki>''' is an official flavour of Ubuntu, featuring the GNOME desktop environment. Ubuntu GNOME is a mostly pure GNOME desktop experience built from the Ubuntu repositories.

== System Requirements ==
'''The Minimum''' System Requirement for Ubuntu GNOME is 1 GB of RAM. It is '''recommended''' to have more. If you have an old machine, you may consider other alternatives like <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki>. 

== Features of 13.10 ==

* Most of GNOME 3.8 is now included. See the <nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.8/ | GNOME release notes]]</nowiki> for more details. The few missing bits of 3.8 are available on the stable gnome3-team Gnome3 PPA.

* Many Artwork improvements including new bootloader theme, plymouth theme, wallpapers, installer slideshow and completed branding with our new Logo.
    
* The new GNOME Classic session is included. To try it, choose it from the Sessions option on the login screen.

* Ubuntu Online Accounts is no longer included by default <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1040193 | (1040193)]]</nowiki>. If you'd like to install it, install gnome-control-center-signon, evolution-data-server-uoa, and whichever of the account-plugin-* packages you want to use.

== Applications ==

* gdm

* gnome-shell

* libreoffice

* Ubuntu software center

* Firefox

* Evolution

== Get Ubuntu GNOME 13.10 ==
<nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/13.10/release/ | Download]]</nowiki> Ubuntu GNOME 13.10.

=== Upgrading from last release ===
When upgrading, it is highly recommended that you back up your own data. 

The update manager GUI will offer you the next release of Ubuntu GNOME; Alternatively, launch Terminal and enter

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

== PPA ==
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Developers | PPA for Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki> can be found on this link.

== Ubuntu Release notes ==

* For common issues with Ubuntu, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseNotes | Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>. 

== Support ==

* 9 Months - See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases | this]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki>
