{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== New Features in Lubuntu 13.10 ==

* New version of pcmanfm / libfm (1.1.2) including a built-in search utility.
* Artwork improvements, including new wallpapers, community wallpapers, new icons ...
* Removing catfish, since pcmanfm has its own search utility
* Fix a very old bug causing gnome-mplayer to crash with some CPU (P4)
* Several fixes for the image viewer gpicview. 
* Firefox is now the default browser.
* lxkeymap for switching keyboard languages has been replaced by <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Keyboard#Keyboard_mapping_for_13.10_and_beyond | Keyboard Layout Handler ]]</nowiki>.
 
=== Lubuntu Applications ===

* Based on the lightweight <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE desktop environment]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/PCManFM | Pcmanfm]]</nowiki>, a fast and lightweight files manager using gio/gvfs.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lightdm | Lightdm]]</nowiki>, using the simple GTK greeter
* Firefox is now the default browser, Chromium is still supported.
* For more detail, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Setup#Applications | full list of applications]]</nowiki>.

=== System Requirements ===

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with a reduced lubuntu desktop.

13.10 32 bit ISO require your CPU to have Physical Address Extensions, or PAE. "PAE is provided by Intel Pentium Pro and above CPUs, including all later Pentium-series processors (except most 400 MHz-bus versions of the Pentium M)." - If you have a NON-PAE CPU you can use 12.04 instead.

For PowerPC, it is known to run on a G4 running at 867MHz with 640MB RAM. 

For Intel based Macs, lubuntu should run on all models.

== Known Issues ==
=== Installation ===
* PPC has several issues and workarounds, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/PPC |documentation on the wiki]]</nowiki>.
* Guided install has a bug when selecting 'max' (Bug:1163908).
* Upgrading slow machines <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseNotes/Lubuntu/SlowMachines | Slow Machines]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1240622 | Only the second of two devices available for installation side-by-side]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1240794 | In partitioner 'select something else' deleting and adding a partition causes crash]]</nowiki>. (*** NOTE *** Alternate installer does not have this bug).
* Lock Screen (lxlock) does not work by default: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/1205384
* Automatically started applications (such as Update Notifier) set in lxsession-edit do not work unless you do this trick: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/lubuntu-users/2013-September/005577.html

=== Graphics and Display ===

* PPC issued are detailed above.

=== Applications ===
 
* Different spacing for the icons on the right corner of lxpanel (Bug:1056547)
* Clicking on Ibus icon start the deamon, but doesn't display an icon (Bug:1041933)
* On Lubuntu 13.10, right click on "Desktop Pager" applet in lxpanel and choose "Desktop Pager Settings" does nothing (Bug:1236417)

=== Ubuntu Release notes ===
 
* For common issues with Ubuntu, please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseNotes | Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>.

== Get Lubuntu == 

Head over <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | here]]</nowiki> to get it.

== Support ==

* 9 months.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs | Contact us]]</nowiki>.
