{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Xubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander, for distribution in October 2013. With this initial Beta pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an beta pre-release. 
Xubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Xubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Xubuntu developers

== Getting Xubuntu 13.10 Beta 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 1 Highlights ==

=== Software Updates ===
* A tool for changing your theme colors easily, gtk-theme-config, has been added to the repositories and will be installed by default in the final release
* A new version of xfce4-settings has been uploaded, bringing amongst other things a new dialog to set up your displays

=== Xubuntu Desktop ===
* New releases of our Gtk themes have been included, which bring long-awaited Gtk3.8 support (and therefore fix many visual bugs)
* Theming in our LightDM greeter should be fixed as well

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Beta 1 Saucy Salamander snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/saucy/+source/linux/3.11.0-4.9 |3.11.0.4 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.11.tar.bz2|v3.11-rc7 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>.  

== Known Problems ==

=== Xubuntu Desktop ===
* When logging out, the login manager does not acknowledge that. Instead, it thinks you are locked out. (Bug:1204486)

== Feedback ==

Development of Xubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Leaders|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
