{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE:''' This is a Beta pre-release. 
Ubuntu Studio Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu Studio Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu Studio developers, testers
* People who want to 'live-on-the-edge'

== New Features in Ubuntu Studio 13.10 Beta 1 ==
Ubuntu Studio is the Ubuntu flavour designed for content creation.

It's produced as a DVD image that can also be converted to an USB stick and includes support for most languages by default.

Please be aware that the artwork is NOT final.

New features include:

* A new menu structure which works on any desktop environment. Len Ovens and Mish did a great job on moviing various apps to the right submenu and creating new menu icons.

* A new package named ubuntustudio-installer, which allows any person to install our metapackages and can fit into any desktop environment.

* Instead of a settings menu, we have fitted in a new Settings Manager, with all settings in one place.
Grub fixes

* When you are in the GRUB Menu, the boot item for Ubuntu Studio will show "Ubuntu Studio" instead of "Ubuntu". Also, the latest -lowlatency kernel will be always the default boot item in the GRUB boot loader.

* The XFCE session in the LightDM is removed to avoid any confusion with the Ubuntu Studio session.

* The linux-lowlatency kernel has been updated to upstream Linux kernel version 3.11-rc4.

=== Ubuntu Studio Applications ===

Accessilibity: We added Orca and brltty for easier accessbility for visually impaired people.

Documentation: For Kdenlive we added KHelpCenter 4 for documenation.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu Studio is now simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Ubuntu Studio with the Ubuntu Studio DVD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Ubuntu Studio 13.10 Beta 1 images can be downloaded from:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/13.10/beta-1 (UbuntuStudio) 

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu Studio 13.10 is 768 MB of memory.  It is highly recommended that you have 2 GB or more memory though so that the system will perform much better.  More information about other recommended hardware on the new Ubuntu Studio website when it is released.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Ubuntu Studio 13.04 ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu Studio 13.04, press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager" (without the quotes) into the command box. Software Updater should open up. Click "Settings" and click on the tab "Updates". Set "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version" to "For any new version". Close and relaunch Software Updater and the Software Updater should display the following message: "New distribution release '13.10' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions". Please click on "Upgrade" and follow the instructions given.

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Ubuntu Studio releases need to upgrade first to 13.04, and then upgrade to 13.10.

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux kernel ====

The Ubuntu Studio 13.10 (Saucy Salamander) Beta 1 snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-lowlatency/3.11.0-2.1 |3.11.0-2.1 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/testing/linux-3.11-rc4.tar.bz2|v3.11-rc4 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. 

== Known Problems ==

=== Ubuntu Studio Desktop ===

* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1220894|Launchpad Bug 1220894]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1220898|Launchpad Bug 1220898]]</nowiki> will cause the generic kernel to be installed and booted by default.

== Support ==

* Ubuntu Studio 13.10 will be supported for 9 months. 
* Security and bug-fix updates for Ubuntu Studio are provided by the Ubuntu Studio Team and Community
* Support via email can be found at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-studio-users|Ubuntu Studio Users Mailing List]]</nowiki>.
* Support via IRC can be found in the #ubuntustudio channel on the Freenode network
