{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing  Lubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander, for distribution in October 2013. With this initial Beta release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an beta pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Lubuntu developers

== Getting Lubuntu 13.10 Beta 2 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-2/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-2/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 2 Highlights ==

 

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Beta 2 Saucy Salamander snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/saucy/+source/linux/3.11.0-8.15 |3.11.0.8 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.11.1.tar.bz2|v3.11.1 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. 

== Known Problems ==

=== Lubuntu Desktop ===
* Unexpected freezes may happen when installing Desktop ISO or running an installed system, on a system with low amount of RAM (see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1227202 | bug:1227202]]</nowiki> for details and news about its resolution). To workaround this :
** If you want to install Beta2, you can use alternate ISO instead.
** On an installed system, remove zram support by doing "sudo apt-get remove zram-config" and reboot your system.
 

* There are issues with usb-creator.

==== Alternate Installer ====

* Guided partitioning shortcut "max" gives minimum space instead - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1163908
 
==== PPC Issues ====

* powerpc: error while running 'modprobe -v yenta_socket' - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ppc/+bug/1153972
* PPC - no graphics after installation - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1195386

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
