{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the final beta release of Ubuntu
13.10 Desktop, Server, Cloud, and Core products.

Codenamed "Saucy Salamander", 13.10 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition
of integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a
high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.  The team has been hard at
work through this cycle, introducing new features and fixing bugs.

This beta release includes images from not only the Ubuntu Desktop,
Server, Cloud, and Core products, but also the Edubuntu, Kubuntu,
Lubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME, UbuntuKylin, Ubuntu Studio and Xubuntu flavours,
and the first official beta release of Ubuntu for phones.

The beta images are known to be reasonably free of showstopper CD build
or installer bugs, while representing a very recent snapshot of 13.10
that should be representative of the features intended to ship with the
final release expected on October 17th, 2013.

Ubuntu, Ubuntu Server, Ubuntu Core, Cloud Images:
  Saucy Final Beta includes updated versions of most of our core set of
  packages, including a current 3.11.1 kernel, a new upstart, and many
  more.

  To upgrade to Ubuntu 13.10 Final Beta from Ubuntu 13.04, follow these
  instructions:

  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SaucyUpgrades

  The Ubuntu 13.10 Final Beta images can be downloaded at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/download (Ubuntu and Ubuntu Server)

  Additional images can be found at the following links:

  http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/13.10/beta-2/ (Cloud Images)
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/13.10/beta-2/ (Community Supported)
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-core/releases/13.10/beta-2/ (Core)
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/13.10/ (Netboot)

  The full release notes for Ubuntu 13.10 Final Beta can be found at:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseNotes

Ubuntu for phones:
  Together with existing builds of Ubuntu for PCs and servers, with this
  milestone, Ubuntu images for phones are also included in a beta for
  the first time.  It is not recommended that casual users install
  Ubuntu on their phone, but developers can find instructions for
  installing the latest stable build of Ubuntu for phones at:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Touch/Install

Edubuntu:
  Edubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu designed as a free education oriented
  operating system for kids of all ages.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on the Edubuntu Final Beta cand be found here:
  http://www.edubuntu.org/news/13.10-beta2

Kubuntu:
  Kubuntu is the KDE based flavour of Ubuntu. It uses the Plasma desktop
  and includes a wide selection of tools from the KDE project.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on Kubuntu Final Beta can be found here:
  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/SaucySalamander/Beta2/Kubuntu

Lubuntu:
  Lubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu that targets to be lighter, less
  resource hungry and more energy-efficient by using lightweight
  applications and LXDE, The Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment,
  as its default GUI.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on Lubuntu Final Beta can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta2/Lubuntu

Ubuntu GNOME:
  Ubuntu GNOME is a flavor of Ubuntu featuring the GNOME desktop
  environment.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on Ubuntu GNOME Final Beta can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta2/UbuntuGNOME

UbuntuKylin:
  UbuntuKylin is a flavor of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese
  users.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on UbuntuKylin Final Beta can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/1310-beta-2-ReleaseNote

Ubuntu Studio:
  Ubuntu Studio is a flavor of Ubuntu that provides a full range of
  multimedia content creation applications for each key workflows:
  audio, graphics, video, photography and publishing.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on Ubuntu Studio Final Beta can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta2/UbuntuStudio

Xubuntu:
  Xubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu that comes with Xfce, which is a stable,
  light and configurable desktop environment.

  The Final Beta images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/13.10/beta-2/

  More information on Xubuntu Final Beta can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta2/Xubuntu

Regular daily images for Ubuntu can be found at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for clients, servers and
clouds, with a fast and easy installation and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions really help us to
improve this and future releases of Ubuntu.   Instructions can be
found at: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this beta release on our
website, IRC channel and wiki.

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

Adam Conrad, on behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team
</pre>
