{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

Welcome to the Saucy Salamander Beta 1 release, which will in time
become the 13.10 release.

This alpha features images for Edubuntu, Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Ubuntu GNOME,
Ubuntu Kylin, Ubuntu Studio and Xubuntu.

Pre-releases of Saucy Salamander are *not* encouraged for anyone needing
a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running into
occasional, even frequent breakage.  They are, however, recommended for
Ubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and
fixing bugs as we work towards getting this release ready.

At the end of the 12.10 development cycle, the Ubuntu desktop and server
flavours decided that they would reduce the number of milestone images
going forward and the focus would concentrate on daily quality and
fortnightly testing rounds known as cadence testing.  Based on that
change, the Ubuntu products themselves will not have a Beta 1 release.
Their first milestone release will be the  beta release on the 26th of
September 2013. Other Ubuntu flavours have the option to release using
the usual milestone schedule.  Further schedule details can be found:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/ReleaseSchedule.

The Beta images are known to be reasonably free of showstopper CD build
or installer bugs, while representing a very recent snapshot of Saucy.
You can download them here:

Edubuntu:
  Edubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu designed as a free education oriented
  operating system for kids of all ages.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on the Edubuntu Beta-1 cand be found here:
  http://www.edubuntu.org/news/13.10-beta1

Kubuntu:
  Kubuntu is the KDE based flavour of Ubuntu. It uses the Plasma desktop
  and includes a wide selection of tools from the KDE project.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on Kubuntu Beta-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.kubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta1/Kubuntu

Lubuntu:
  Lubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu that targets to be lighter, less 
  resource hungry and more energy-efficient by using lightweight 
  applications and LXDE, The Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment, 
  as its default GUI.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on Lubuntu Beta-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta1/Lubuntu

Ubuntu GNOME:
  Ubuntu GNOME is a flavor of Ubuntu featuring the GNOME desktop
  environment.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on Ubuntu-GNOME Beta-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta1/UbuntuGNOME

UbuntuKylin:
  UbuntuKylin is a flavor of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese
  users.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on UbuntuKylin Beta-1 can be found here:
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/1310-beta-1-ReleaseNote  

Ubuntu Studio:
  Ubuntu Studio is a flavor of Ubuntu that provides a full range of
  multimedia content creation applications for each key workflows:
  audio, graphics, video, photography and publishing.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at:
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on Ubuntu Studio Beta-1 can be found here: 
  http://ubuntustudio.org/2013/09/ubuntu-studio-13-10-saucy-salamander-beta-1-released/ 
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta1/UbuntuStudio  

Xubuntu: 

  Xubuntu is a flavor of Ubuntu that comes with Xfce, which is a stable,
  light and configurable desktop environment.

  The Beta-1 images can be downloaded at: 
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/

  More information on Xubuntu Beta-1 can be found here:
  http://xubuntu.org/news/saucy-beta1
  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SaucySalamander/Beta1/Xubuntu

Regular daily images for Ubuntu can be found at: 
  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com

Beta 1 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing.  This is an early set of images, so you should expect some
bugs.  For a more detailed description of the changes in the Beta 1
release and the known bugs (which can save you the effort of reporting a
duplicate bug, or help you find proven workarounds), please see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
Saucy, we suggest that you subscribe to the ubuntu-devel-announce list.
This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a week) carrying announcements
of approved specifications, policy changes, alpha releases and other
interesting events.  

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

A big thank you to the developers and testers for their efforts to 
pull together this Beta release!

Kate Stewart, on behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team.
</pre>
