{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing  Lubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander, for distribution in October 2013. With this initial Beta release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights and information. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an beta pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Lubuntu developers

== Getting Lubuntu 13.10 Beta 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/|Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

We recommend you learn how to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/saucy/beta-1/MD5SUMS|alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 1 Highlights ==

=== Software Updates ===

* Chromium browser has been replaced by Firefox.
* XScreensaver has been removed.
* ZRam has been added enabling the desktop installer to work on lower RAM machines.
* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Saucy/Box | new artwork]]</nowiki> is available.

=== Infrastructure ===

==== Linux Kernel ====
The Beta 1 Saucy Salamander snapshot includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/saucy/+source/linux/3.11.0-4.9 |3.11.0.4 Ubuntu Linux kernel]]</nowiki> which is based on the the upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.11.tar.bz2|v3.11-rc7 Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. 

== Known Problems ==

=== Lubuntu Desktop ===

* There are issues with usb-creator.
* New wallpapers are still awaiting the outcome of the vote.

==== Ubiquity issues ====

* the release notes link in installer points to www.ubuntu.com - http://launchpad.net/bugs/1065789
* Missing feedback/progress dialog while installing drivers - http://launchpad.net/bugs/1087409
* Lubuntu installer theme is broken - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1152306
* Sydney timezone is in the wrong location - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1172015
* maximise button does nothing in Ubiquity - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1177116
* resize tool does not show partition numerical sizes - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1194898
* Rendering errors at lubuntu language select screen (Install and OEM-setup) - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1206684
 

==== Live Issues ====

* clock is not automatically set in live session - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/940919
* Live CD fails to reboot after installation - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1194895

==== Alternate Installer ====

* Guided partitioning shortcut "max" gives minimum space instead - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer/+bug/1163908
 
==== PPC Issues ====

* powerpc: error while running 'modprobe -v yenta_socket' - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ppc/+bug/1153972
* PPC - no graphics after installation - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1195386

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 13.10, the Saucy Salamander is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
