{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

I, Scarlett Moore, apply for <MOTU> upload rights for package(s) in Universe and Multiverse>.

'''Name'''

Scarlett Moore

'''Launchpad Page'''

https://launchpad.net/~scarlettmoore

'''Wiki Page'''

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/scarlettmoore

'''I am applying because:'''

 I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
 I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

'''Who I am'''

I have been a Linux user/administrator since 1998 and I am very passionate about my work. I have been helping with Kubuntu since about 2011, mostly packaging, but recently as lead developer I have expanded my contributions to FFe's, SRU's, transitions, bug triage, release cycles and so much more. I am also a Debian Developer, with experience in of course packaging, but also reproducible builds and the LTS security updates.

'''My Ubuntu story'''

As mentioned I have been a Kubuntu contributor / developer since 2011 and would like to expand my horizons. I have recently become the Kubuntu lead developer. I have extensive experience with the KDE packageset. I am also the KDE snap extraordinaire, with maintaining over 200 KDE snaps and the kde-neon(6) extension in snapcraft.

'''My involvement'''
 My 'proud' moment was the release of Kubuntu 24.04 LTS. Most of my involvement includes packaging and maintaining the Qt/KDE packageset and it's dependencies. I am also heading up the bug squashing and triage of all Kubuntu related bugs. I engage in various communities (eg: reddit, matrix etc.) working with users to see what is working and what isn't, to make Kubuntu as good as it can be.

'''Areas of work'''

I did 'bug triage' For all plasma packages:

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plasma-desktop/+bug/2053125|Plasma Bugs]]</nowiki>

I did all the apparmor profiles for KDE applications in the mega userns bug:

 https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bubblewrap/+bug/2046844

I have gone through several QT transitions and fixed issues that showed up in 

 <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-archive-team.ubuntu.com/proposed-migration/update_excuses.html]]</nowiki>

''SRU's:''

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/merkuro/+bug/2063936|2063936:  merkuro Missing runtime qml dependency.]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plasma-workspace/+bug/1629543|1629543:  plasma-workspace Outdated and incorrect config file option.]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/noble/+source/kubuntu-meta/+bug/2065465|2065465: kubuntu-meta Outdated and incorrect package shipped for libappindicator.]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/noble/+source/akregator/+bug/2065915|2065915:  Mega SRU to add architectures other than amd for the apparmor profiles until @multiarch is supported.]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/noble/+source/sddm/+bug/2066275|2066275:  sddm Black screen on second boot.]]</nowiki>

''FFe's''

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/meta-kde/+bug/1547571]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kio/+bug/1371211]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/calamares-settings-ubuntu/+bug/2056061]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libkgapi/+bug/1547548]]</nowiki>

'''General'''

''What I like least in Ubuntu''
The bugtracker is not very friendly in regards to tracking and searching for a given packageset of bugs. 

''Comments''
If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:scarlettmoore]]</nowiki> .

''Endorsements''
As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.

TEMPLATE

=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====
