{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

SchoolTool is a suite of free administrative software for schools. Since it can be installed easily and used with no licensing fees, SchoolTool can be used by schools for a single purpose, by individual teachers or small teams within schools, or as a whole-school comprehensive student information system, encompassing demographics, gradebooks, attendance, calendars and reporting.

* '''Home page''': http://schooltool.org/
* '''Project on Launchpad''': https://launchpad.net/schooltool-project
* '''Documentation''': http://book.schooltool.org/
* '''Developer tools''': http://source.schooltool.org/

=== Ubuntu packages ===

Since Ubuntu 11.04 SchoolTool is available in universe.

Updates and packages for older Ubuntu releases are available in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~schooltool-owners/+archive/ppa|SchoolTool PPA]]</nowiki>, see <nowiki>[[http://book.schooltool.org/install-toc.html|Installation]]</nowiki> instructions.

==== Precise (12.04 LTS) ====

We worked since the start of the summer on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/schooltool.release/flourish|flourish]]</nowiki> sprint.

<nowiki>[[SchoolTool-Precise|SchoolTool 2.0]]</nowiki> is scheduled to be released on November 22nd, 2011. Then there is much to be done to integrate schooltool better into Ubuntu.

==== Oneiric (11.10) ====

Bugfixes and some new features from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/schooltool/trunk|schooltool trunk]]</nowiki>.

==== Natty (11.04) ====

<nowiki>[[SchoolTool-Natty]]</nowiki> packages are in the universe!

<nowiki>[[Zope-Natty]]</nowiki> dependencies were all uploaded by Jan 10, 2011.
 

==== Maverick (10.10) ====

We attended <nowiki>[[UDS-M]]</nowiki> to talk to key people and got a green light to upload <nowiki>[[Zope-Maverick]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[SchoolTool-Maverick]]</nowiki> packages. However, we missed the FeatureFreeze and stayed in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~schooltool-owners/+archive/ppa|SchoolTool PPA]]</nowiki> until next cycle.

==== Lucid (10.04 LTS) ====

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/schooltool/1.4|SchoolTool 1.4]]</nowiki> stable series is available and supported on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS release.
