{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Me ===
* scottwbarber AT gmail DOT com (for email and google talk)
* Launchpad account: https://launchpad.net/~scottwbarber/
* Forum Profile: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=265891
* tapH20guru on IRC

=== Stats ===
* I'm an ubunutero and looking to become an official Ubuntu Member
* I try and help out the most on IRC and Wiki contributions.
* Member of the <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam]]</nowiki> and member of the Server Team <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam/Teams/Server]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu convert around the time hoary came out thanks to <nowiki>[[Tristanbob]]</nowiki>
* Past Local LUG President (http://www.oalug.com) for a couple years
* Blog at http://scott.barberfam.com
* Linux Sysadmin and Ruby / Rails developer
* Lucky to count some awesome folks at the Utah Loco team as friends: <nowiki>[[Tristanbob]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[AaronToponce]]</nowiki> - I'm an old member of the <nowiki>[[UtahTeam]]</nowiki>
* Between work and home I personally run Ubuntu on 12 machines. Either 6.06 LTS and Feisty

=== Goals ===
* Become a MOTU and start helping maintain the ruby / rubygems / rails packages
* Work on making customizable / derivative distro Ubuntu LiveCDs / Install CDs (Asterisk and Ruby / Rails in particular)
* Keep writing more HOWTOs and help to improve community documentation.

=== Skills ===
* Senior Linux Systems Administrator for my day job
* Previously a Web Developer using PHP, now prefer Ruby/RubyOnRails
* I also run a consulting business doing Linux admin / Rails development (http://release3.com)
* Love my Sipura 3000 and TrixBox (too bad it's not based on Ubuntu)

=== Contributions ===
Created...
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters/LexmarkZ605]]</nowiki>
and worked on...
* <nowiki>[[ThinClientHowto]]</nowiki>
Will be adding the following shortly:
* IPCOP with OpenVPN and Fiesty’s Network Manager HOWTO: http://scott.barberfam.com/wp/2007/05/10/ipcop-with-openvpn-and-fiestys-network-manager/
* Treo 650 USB Modem on Ubuntu Feisty (Sprint) http://scott.barberfam.com/wp/2007/04/25/treo-650-usb-modem-on-ubuntu-feisty-sprint/
* Ubuntu Edgy (and Dapper) DUN Treo 650 w/Sprint over bluetooth http://scott.barberfam.com/wp/2006/11/30/ubuntu-edgy-dapper-dun-treo-650-wsprint/

I keep a stack of the latest live CDs on me and give them out to friends and family. My personal tally so far:
* 6.06 LTS: 15
* Edgy: 18
* Feisty: 10 (and counting)

Encourage the installation and support the use of Ubuntu at work.
* Created and maintain 3 VM images for internal testing use.
* Maintain internal wiki documentation on ubuntu installation and use in our corporate environment including:
* Connecting Evolution to our exchange server with LDAP addressbook settings
* Connecting to the Juniper VPN

----
CategoryArizonaTeam CategoryHomepage
