{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''IRC:''' ScottK
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~kitterman
* '''Email:''' ----
== Update for January 2016 ==

I am no longer involved in Ubuntu development and am in the process of migrating all my systems to Debian.  Why is not hard to figure out, but I won't rehash here.

== Update for May 2012 ==

It's four years later and I'm still here and running for a second term on the Kubuntu Council.  In addition to being an Ubuntu core-dev and a Kubuntu developer, I'm also a member of the Ubuntu release team.  I act as the Kubuntu representative on the release team when Riddell is not available.

While I've been on the Kubuntu Council I've worked to keep Kubuntu close to both it's primary upstreams, KDE and Debian (I'm also a Debian Developer and have worked on reducing the diff between Kubuntu and Debian).

If re-elected, I plan to continue pretty much on the same path.  I see the recent changes in Canonical support for Kubuntu as a great chance for us to do an even better job of being close to upstream.

== Update for January 2008 ==

Details on my packages can be found <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kitterman/+packages|here]]</nowiki>.  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~scottk/+packages|These]]</nowiki> are also mine, but due to someone else's LP name being the same as my IRC nick were mis-attributed.

== Hardy (so far) ==

* Due to working hard at pushing fixes back to Debian and upstream, 9 of the initial 12 merges I had to do when the Hardy repositories opened were syncs.

* Completed getting all packages I'd introduced into Ubuntu into Debian.  

* Smoothly completed libclamav2 to libclamav3 transition.

* Working on MIR process for amavisd-new in support of ubuntu-server package review spec (8 approved so far).

* Increasing number of sponsored Main uploads (including 3 in one day).
   - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pinentry/0.7.4-2ubuntu1|pinentry]]</nowiki>

   - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dput/0.9.2.29ubuntu1|dput]]</nowiki>

   - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnet-server-perl/0.97-0ubuntu1|libnet-server-perl]]</nowiki>

* Succeeded and getting clamav to be a sync from Debian and established a working relationship with the Debian clamav maintainer.
   - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/clamav/0.92~dfsg-2]]</nowiki>

* Keeping a close eye on Spamassassin and feeding patches back to Debian as needed.

* Attended two days of UDS Boston

== Gutsy ==

* Member of motu-uvf: Actively managed decision making about what should and shouldn't be uploaded late in the release process.  Resulted in good bug-fixing up to the final freeze, the community was well informed, and the release happened with the Universe part of the archive is a consistent state (except for hppa, no pending builds at final freeze).  Worked very closely with Ubuntu release managers.

* Implemented GPG and S/MIME by default for Kontact/Kmail part of the Gutsy KDE spec including MIR and resultant packaging changes for pinentry and bug fixes and configuration changes for gnupg2.

* A large number of Universe uploads for merges and fixes both.

* Got most (all but two) new packages I'd introduced in Ubuntu into Debian.

== Backports ==

Member of ubuntu-backporters - Approve backports submitted and tested by community members.  100% track record of approved backports not breaking the distro.  

Keeping a useable clamav in feisty-backports and gutsy-backports.  Getting ready to backport clamav 0.92 to dapper/edgy/feisty/gutsy (the latest 0.8x release in dapper/edgy is completely useless at this point and the 0.91 releases in gutsy/feisty-backports only have a limited lifespan, so executing a backports library transition is going to be needed.  Progress is documented here:

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Clamav

I've uploaded the modified packages need for backport testing to the ubuntu-clamav PPA:

https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-clamav/+archive

Clamav 0.92 and all updated rdepends have been backported to dapper-backports and then copied to dapper-updates without incident.

Backported Postfix 2.4 to all supported releases without issue.

== Input for MOTU application (May 2007) ==

I have been using Ubuntu on servers since shortly before the Dapper release and Kubuntu on the desktop since KDE 3.5.3 packages were available for Dapper.  Before that I used Debian on servers and Xandros and then opensuse on the desktop.  I'm a one person consulting company and I made a strategic decision several years ago that my business was too important to me to be dependent on proprietary software.  I currently have three Ubuntu mail servers (two production Edgy boxes and a Feisty test server) supporting my <nowiki>[[http://www.controlledmail.com|Controlled Mail]]</nowiki> service.  No need to write in and tell me the web site needs work - web design is not my forte and I know that.

I got involved in the Kubuntu Testers team late in the Edgy development process and have participated in testing Edgy and Feisty as well as testing new KDE packages.

For Feisty, I got invovled in MOTU.  Initially I did this in order to improve support in Ubuntu for <nowiki>[[http://www.openspf.org/|Sender Policy Framework (SPF)]]</nowiki>.  I brought several new or significantly upgraded packages to Ubuntu:

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/pypolicyd-spf
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/postfix-policyd-spf-perl
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/mail-spf-perl
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/libnet-dns-resolver-programmable-perl
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/pyyaml

Upgrades:

* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/pyspf
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/libnetaddr-ip-perl

Once I got started, I got more involved.  For Feisty I did at least 5 merges from Debian, submitted bug fix updates on 6 packages, and did a last minute package of clamav (which jumped Debian) to get Feisty out the door with the current version.

https://launchpad.net/~kitterman/+packages

I've also been invovled on IRC with helping other people learn how to get involved.

I was recently interviewed by JordanMantha (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laserjock|Laserjock]]</nowiki>) for <nowiki>[[http://behindmotu.wordpress.com/2007/04/07/behind-motu-scott-kitterman/|Behind MOTU]]</nowiki>.

I've done backport and SRU testing.

I am also a memeber of the bugsquad and ubuntu-qa.  I just recently formally joined, but have been doing triage informally for quite some time.  

For universe bugs I've been able to work through not only triage, but getting them fixed.  <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/klamav/+bug/96090|Bug #96090]]</nowiki> is an example of this.  I noticed that there were a large number of sigsegv bugs against klamav that all came in after a late upstream version update (driven by clamav upgrades).  I solicited someone on #kubuntu-devel to look into the problem and then once they found a patch from opensuse, worked with MOTU to get it uploaded.  For Python bugs, I've been able to fix some of them myself (in the pysol package for example).

I've also worked on improving documenation in the wiki.  Most recently I wrote the ContributingToDebian/PythonModulesTeam new page to make it easier to contribute Python modules back to Debian.

I have also done a little work in the marketing area.  I contributed the section on Mail Servers for the Feisty features guide.

I plan to continue to be involved in Ubuntu.  For gutsy, I've started on a spec for kmail/kontact to support S/MIME signing and verification by default and I am planning on packaging <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/106134|DKIM Milter]]</nowiki> - Update, it's in Debian NEW, so never mind... and at least one SPF milter if I can find one that works with both Postfix and Sendmail.
