{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} '''Name''': Screencasts Team<<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} '''Launchpad''': LaunchpadHome:ubuntu-screencasts <<BR>>
{{https://bugs.launchpad.net/@@/private}} '''Website''': <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|screencasts.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
{*} '''blip.tv site''': <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuscreencasts.blip.tv/ | blip.tv.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/@@/mail}} '''Email''': <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-screencasts |Ubuntu-screencasts]]</nowiki><<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} '''IRC''': <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-screencasts |#ubuntu-screencasts]]</nowiki><<BR>>

== About Us ==

The goal of the Screencasts Team is to make high quality learning materials,
specifically screencasts, available to Ubuntu users. Screencasts are
useful for demonstrating and teaching software features. A screencast
allows for the capturing of on-screen actions with an audio recording
explaining what is going on. This allows for a comprehensive and thorough demonstration.

{*} See the <nowiki>[[FAQ]]</nowiki> for more information about our screencasts.

=== I Want to Make Screencasts ===
If you would like to help out with making screencasts, you're in the
right place!<<BR>>

''' This is the procedure for submitting a new screencast:'''<<BR>>
{*} Visit the <nowiki>[[ScreencastTeam-Requests]]</nowiki> page and write a specification for your planned screencast. If possible, consult with the Screencast Team about which screencasts most need attention.<<BR>>
{*} <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-screencasts|Contact the Screencast Team]]</nowiki> and discuss your specification.<<BR>>
{*} After some discussion, you can go ahead and record the screencast. A guide to contributing can be found at <nowiki>[[ScreencastTeam-RecordingScreencasts]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
{*} When you've finished the screencast, upload it to:<<BR>>
    <nowiki>[[http://blip.tv|Blip.tv]]</nowiki>,<<BR>>
    or<<BR>>
    <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/|YouTube]]</nowiki> and let the team know.<<BR>>
{*} The team will then review the screencast and give you feedback. If we are happy with it then we will upload it to the <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|screencast website]]</nowiki>!<<BR>>

'''NEW:'''See a flowchart of this procedure: <nowiki>[[attachment:ScreencastFlowChart.odg]]</nowiki>

Anyone can submit a screencast project and make a video for the approval of the team (see above). If you enjoy making screencasts or want to help support this team in some other manner feel free to  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-screencasts|join our team]]</nowiki>.

=== I Want to Watch Screencasts ===
You can find the screencasts that this team has published at <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com | screencasts.ubuntu.com.]]</nowiki>
==== Other Screencasts ====
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntudevelopers.blip.tv | Ubuntu Developers Network]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/CanonicalLaunchpad | Launchpad Channel]]</nowiki> on !YouTube <<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://fosscasts.com/ | FOSScasts]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://ucasts.tv/ | UCasts]]</nowiki>
== Meetings ==

Screencast Team meetings happen on an as needed basis. All meetings are held in '''#ubuntu-screencasts''' on '''irc.freenode.net'''

Meetings are posted on the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki>. You can  <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/render?cid=j5q85mmi6ujvjtii5s1n3li5io%40group.calendar.google.com| click here]]</nowiki> to subscribe.
Google calendar will convert the time for you automatically if you subscribe, but the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar|Fridge]]</nowiki> website will always show events in GMT.

For more details see the <nowiki>[[Meeting]]</nowiki> Page.

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
