{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Distribution ==

Screencasts are great to watch, but they're better to share. One issue with screencasts can be their size. A video of a few minutes long of a full-sized desktop with audio can be many megabytes in size. Distributing this volume of data can be tricky and expensive. There are options for making video available for zero price or low-cost though.

=== Upload to google video ===

Google <nowiki>[[http://video.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=26562&topic=1488&hl=en_GB|accepts]]</nowiki> AVI, MPEG, Quicktime, Real and Windows Media files which may contain video encoded with H.264, H.263, MPEG 1/2/4 and MJPEG. Although not stated in their documentation, Ogg-Theora and some other video formats can also be uploaded by changing the file extension to .avi and then uploading.

* Sign up
* If individual videos are less than 100MB, tehn upload via <nowiki>[[http://video.google.com/videouploadform?utm_campaign=gv-ww-hdr&utm_source=EM&utm_medium=link|browser upload tool]]</nowiki>.
* If larger than 100MB then <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/video/upload/UploadInfo?hl=en-GB|download desktop uploader]]</nowiki>.
* Once uploaded, edit info about the video then submit.

=== Upload to archive.org ===

* Sign up
* Specify unique object name
* Upload via ftp
* Specify titles and derived formats
* "Check out" to modify
* "Check in" when finished

=== Upload to youtube ===

 ENOTWRITTENYET

=== Upload to own webspace ===

 ENOTWRITTENYET

==== Upload to libsyn ====

* <nowiki>[[https://www.libsyn.com/signup.php|Sign up]]</nowiki> to libsyn.

=== Burn to CD/DVD ===

The devede package can be used to put together a set of videos onto a DVD.
