{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/*
Before you start you need:
An iPod with some music on it.
Rockboxed iRiver, acting as "generic audio device"
One of the above must contain mp3s or oggs, becuase rhythmbox cant change the id tags of aacs.
An audio file on the desktop of the VM. This was "Emailed to you from a friend"
An audio CD in the drive. Preferably My Chemical Romance, cuz they rule.
* /

==== Intro ====
Hello. Welcome to this screencast etc etc
Open up rhythmbox. Comment on likeness to iTunes. Give brief summary of features (radio, podcast, library, playlists etc). Dont be to specific.

==== Setting Up ====
Create "Music" and "Podcasts" directory in home folder. In the preferences box of RB, configure these directories. Tell it to watch library for new files. Talk about that :)
Talk about "Preferred format" (bottom of music tab in prefs). Eg say Ogg=free, higher quality @ lower file sizes. Mp3= Supported on most computers, lower quality, only format which works on iPods and most media players. Flac=Free, full quality, large files.
Select MP3.
Go to synaptic and install:
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse
Talk about how thats required to encode/play mp3s, aacs etc, but not ogg, flac etc.

==== Importing Music ====
Import the audio file from the desktop, claiming that it was emailed to you by a friend. remind the user that it will stay on the desktop and wont be put into the ~/Music folder.

Go into the iPod or iRiver. Import a few songs (possibly an album?) into the library. These cant be aacs, and must be mp3s or oggs. Remember we're in qemu here, so file transfers slow, so dont go mad :D

Rip the CD thats in the drive. Leave it ripping while you continue. When its finished ripping, select the entire albun in the library and change hte genre to demo id3 tag editing.

==== Tagging/Star Rating ====
Go to the song/album you copied off of the iPod/iRiver. State that this is your favourite album, select them all and give them 5 stars.

Now go to the song that was "emailed to you". Start it playing, and carry on with the tutorial. When it finishes, say that you really liked the song, and give it 4 stars.

==== Last.fm ====

Explain what last.fm is and tell the user to go to http://last.fm to sign up/get more info. Enable the plugin and log in. Go to the last.fm tab and make a simmilar artists radio for the artist who you peviously stated was your favourite and gave 5 stars to. Love a few songs, skip a few, ban a few. Or just explain how to skip/ban/love if that takes too long.

==== Podcasts ====

Go to http://ubuntuos.com and get the URL of the podcast feed. Point out that theres an mp3 and ogg version. Choose the ogg version. Add it in rhythmbox and get it to start downloading.

==== Radio ====

Go to http://virginradio.co.uk/ and clikc on listen live now (at the top right) then select the online tab. Point out that there are a lot of formats. Say that you will choose ogg vorbis, and get the url of the ~160k one, as you have broadband, but instruct dialup users to use lower bitrates like ~16k. Add the radio station in RB. Rename it to "Virgin Radio".

==== Lyrics & Cover Art ====

Enable these two plugins and demonstrate them :)

==== Copying to iPod ====

Drag the song that was "emailed to you" into the ipod.

==== Magnatune/Jamendo ====

Explain what they are (free music sharing and all that stuff), enable them and demonstrate them (just go into them and show the list of songs)

==== DAAP ====

Explain what it is, and how it allows itunes/other rhythmboxes to access your library. Enable it, share your library, and explain how passwords could be used. If you have DAAP enabled on your real machine. that share should come up. show it, and scroll through it.

==== Play Queue ====

Start a song playing. Right click on another and add it to the queue. Explain that hte queued song will be played next.

==== Playlists ====

Make a normal (non-automatic) playlist, give it a name and add a few songs to it. Open the "burn to cd" dialogue and explain that this will burn all the songs in the playlist to a cd-r, and explain write speeds and the other options (I dont have a cdr drive so i cant see all of the options :s). Close the dialogue.
Say something about how automatic playlists (that they automatically add music which follows a certain criterion or criteria). Show the "My Top Rated" playlist and explain that it includes all songs which have been awarded 4 or 5 stars. Demonstrate how the user can make his/her own.
