{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The screencast team was started in 2006 after some screencasts were made by members of the UK LoCo team. After a hiatus we built a community around screencasting. This involves production & hosting, transcription, translation and feed back to the team. 

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''9th October 2007'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Alan Pope <alanpope@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-screencasts|49]]</nowiki> at 9th October 2007
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-screencasts/|ubuntu-screencasts]]</nowiki> on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-screencasts on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

* ''Month Of Screencasts'' - Currently ongoing (and overrunning) we need to finish the 30 screencasts for the MoS 2007. http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/MoS2007 / https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MonthOfScreencasts2007
* ''Translation'' - Recruit more transcribers and translators to build on the number we already have. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/TranslationStatus / http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Subtitle_Usage
* ''Screencasting Screencast'' - We get asked for a "how to make screencasts" screencast at most meetings. This needs to be made, based on our "how to screencast" wiki page (which also needs some love):- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/RecordingScreencasts
* ''Screencasts in Ubuntu'' -  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastsInUbuntuSpec - This spec aims to deliver screencasts directly on the desktop within a robust but compact player. We need to see this through UDS Boston with the aim of getting it in 8.04.
* ''Make things easier'' - Making quality screencasts isn't easy. We need to look at ways to make that process easier for people to contribute to.
* ''All in one screencasting'' - Somewhat blue sky thinking, we would like to spec up and help develop a desktop application which can perform many of the typical screencasting tasks over and above just recording screen activity. 
* ''Improve Accessibility'' - With subtitles (many already done) we can provide access to tutorials to people with hearing difficulties. Screencasts also provide access to tutorials for people with dyslexia.

=== Experience ===

* ''Eat our own dogfood'' - We only use free tools to make the screencasts. That includes qemu, xvidcap, avidemux, audacity and ffmpeg.
* ''HD Screencasts'' - We're the only people making screencasts about Ubuntu in HD720p. 
* ''Video podcast'' - Using 3rd party tools such as Feedburner and Miro we have maintained a solid subscriber base for the Month of Screencasts. This shows there are people who want to watch video tutorials, and will subscribe to watch regularly produced content.
* ''Video encoding'' - Using free tools such 
* ''Popular Screencasts'' - Some of our screencasts are incredibly popular. http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Installing_Ubuntu_with_Windows_Dual-Boot & http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Downloading_and_Burning_an_Ubuntu_ISO are both over a year old but still get more views than any other screencast.
* ''Search ranking'' - Google for ubuntu screencasts:- http://www.google.co.uk/search?q=ubuntu+screencasts and we occupy most of the first page of hits.
* ''Feedback'' - We get a lot of good (and a little not so good) feedback, and lots of suggestions for improvement:- http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/MoS2007#comment
