{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Video Overview ==

Most user-friendly desktop operating systems allow you to set-up Internet sharing from a USB modem to an internal network. Ubuntu (Gnome) currently lacks this feature, so this video will guide the user to configure <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Firestarter|Firestarter]]</nowiki> instead. Could involve wireless too, as a bonus.

== Target Audience ==

* Desktop users migrating from Windows who are already quite competent with networking, but just lack experience.
* Desktop users that are experienced in computing, but have little networking knowledge.

== Pre-requisites ==

* Non yet, but an introduction to networking guide would be useful.

== Required Knowledge ==

* How to set-up an Internet connection (Cable or ADSL modem/router)
* How to install packages from the universe repository.
* Understand basic networking concepts such as what network interfaces and modems are and how to link Ethernet cables together.

== Recommended Knowledge ==

* Difference between hubs, switches and routers.
* Network troubleshooting tools e.g. ping
* Understand manual IP address assignment and subnetting.
* Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), Domain Name System (DNS) and Network Address Translation (NAT)

== Objectives ==

* Check Internet configuration - must already be present and working.
* Configure internal network settings.
* Install and set-up Firestarter.
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
