{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== RecordMyDesktop ==

Home page: http://recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net/

Recordmydesktop consists of three main programs, recordmydesktop is a command line tool with gtk-recordmydesktop and qt-recordmydesktop as the graphical frontends for GTK and QT environments.

=== Installation ===
Recordmydesktop has been added to the universe repository, and so can be installed easily:-

<pre>

$ sudo apt-get install recordmydesktop gtk-recordmydesktop
</pre>
For KDE
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install recordmydesktop qt-recordmydesktop
</pre>

=== Usage ===
You can use recordmydesktop from the GUI (gtk-recordmydesktop) or control recordmydesktop directly from the commandline.
==== GUI ====
Once installed gtk-recordmydesktop can be launched from Applications -> Sound & Video. You can record by either left-click the icon in the panel or click the record button in the main window. For additional details on the Main Window <nowiki>[[http://recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net/rug/p1_1a.php | see here, ]]</nowiki>and the Panel(tray) Icon <nowiki>[[http://recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net/rug/p1_1b.php | see here.]]</nowiki> If you do not want to capture the entire desktop there are three ways of selecting the area on which you will confine the recording.
 1. Using the preview thumbnail on the main window you can draw a window with the crosshairs.
 2. Using the “Select Window” button and then select a window on your desktop.
 3. Using the “Select Area on Screen” function accessed by right-clicking on the panel icon. <nowiki>[[ http:--recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net-rug-p1_2b.php | Additional details on defining an area for recording]]</nowiki><<BR>>  
==== Command Line ====
You can get details about using recordmydesktop by viewing <nowiki>[[http://recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net/manpage.php| the man page]]</nowiki>. An example command would be:
<pre>
recordmydesktop --width 640 --height 480 -x 200 -y 200 --full-shots --fps 15   --channels 1 --device pulse --v_quality 63 --s_quality 10 --v_bitrate 2000000   --delay 10
</pre>
Tips: Switch off sound recording with the "--nosound" option to reduce CPU overhead.

Users not using pulseaudio, can replace the option "--device pulse" with "--device hw:0,0"
