{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== OBS Studio ==
Homepage: https://obsproject.com/

==== Description ====
OBS Studio is free, open source video capturing software that is available for Linux, Windows and Mac OSX.  It is one of the most popular and versatile screen capturing solutions available today.

==== Capabilities ====
''Note: This is not an exhaustive list of everything OBS is capable of, but I'll try to touch on the major features.''

* Record from multiple sources simultaneously and overlay or combine them into a single output stream.  Add PiP (picture in picture) objects such as titles, overlay one video source such as a webcam on top of another video source, etc.
* Record footage to a file, or stream it live to a variety of services or even your own custom server.
* Capable of capturing footage from your own screen or external hardware such as capture cards, cameras, etc..
* Audio and video sources are added separately, so you can have video from a source, but not the audio, and audio from another source, without any video attached to it, and combine them together in real time for your output file/stream.
* Set up multiple "scenes" that you can switch between on the fly, including transitions that play when changing.
* Mix and add filters to your audio and video sources in real time.
* Rearrange objects within your scene in real time without having to restart the stream.
* Output footage in a variety of formats and qualities, using either a handful of presets, or using your own custom specifications for properties such as format, bitrate, resolution, framerate, etc.

==== Installation ====
OBS Studio, as of today (27 June 2019), is available for Ubuntu as both a .deb and snap package.  Depending on your preferred software format, you can install it using the software center where you'll see both formats listed, or using one of the following commands.

'''Snap'''

<pre> bash
sudo snap install obs-studio</pre>

'''APT'''

<pre> bash
sudo apt install obs-studio</pre>
