{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Roadmap ==

=== Current / Ongoing ===

{*} After a period of inactivity the team is gearing back up. These should be our first priorities:
*** Update the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/RecordingScreencasts | /ScreencastTeam/RecordingScreencasts]]</nowiki> page and the screencasts made from it.
*** increase the teams visibility, letting people know we are active again.
*** A review and updating of current screencasts.

* ''Translation'' - Recruit more transcribers and translators to build on the number we already have. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MonthOfScreencasts/TranslationStatus / http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Subtitle_Usage
* ''Screencasting Screencast'' - (this is mentioned above)We get asked for a "how to make screencasts" screencast at most meetings. This needs to be made, based on our "how to screencast" wiki page (which also needs '''updating'''):- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/RecordingScreencasts
* ''Screencasts in Ubuntu'' -  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastsInUbuntuSpec - This spec aims to deliver screencasts directly on the desktop within a robust but compact player. We need to see this through UDS with the aim of getting it in the next release.
* ''Make things easier'' - Making quality screencasts isn't easy. We need to look at ways to make that process easier for people to contribute to.
** Break up the documentation into separate knowledge base how-tos
* ''All in one screencasting'' - Somewhat blue sky thinking, we would like to spec up and help develop a desktop application which can perform many of the typical screencasting tasks over and above just recording screen activity. 

=== Future ===

* run initiatives to increase the visibility of the team
*** Get them on the cover of Linux magazines
* Get screencasts embedded in Ubuntu - See ScreencastsInUbuntuSpec
* Get screencasts translated (audio re-dubbed) to other languages
* Make screencasts available on CD/DVD

=== Previous ===

* ''Month Of Screencasts'' - Currently ongoing (and overrunning) we need to finish the 30 screencasts for the MoS 2007. http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/MoS2007 / https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MonthOfScreencasts2007

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryTeamTODOPage]]</nowiki>
