{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE''': This page is part of the Ubuntu Specification process.  Please check the status and details in Launchpad before editing.  If the spec is Approved then you should contact the Assignee, or another knowledgeable person, before making changes.

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/screencast-notation
* '''Created by''': 2006-09-26 by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jw10|Jw10]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
This specification outlines a post-production Blender plugin(in Python) to add popup text bubbles.
=== Rationale ===
The Ubuntu community has been encouraged to make video demonstrations/tutorials. There is currently no easy way to convey information to the viewer without using a text editor with prepared statements or directing typing into a window. This specification outlines a module to be used with Blender to allow textual notes to be added to the video in postproduction.
=== Use cases ===
* Beth has created a set of tutorial videos à la Video Professor(TM), she wants to add textual cues to the video. <<BR>>
* Johannes has downloaded the .blend source file for a tutorial he would like to translate from English to German.

=== Scope ===
All flavors of Ubuntu

=== Implementation ===

1. Implement a new view for the screencast module. <<BR>>
2. Utilize python libraries to capture keypresses and mark positions on a timeline. <<BR>>
3. Implement a UI for adding the text in place or loading from text/XML file. <<BR>>
4. Implement a fade in/out coefficient algorithm for nice transitions. <<BR>>

=== Bof Agenda and discussion ===

None yet.
----
CategorySpec
