{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Gaupol ==

Home page: http://home.gna.org/gaupol/

Written in python and GTK+, Gaupol is an actively developed and simple to use application. It supports most of the popular subtitle formats including Subrip, and Subviewer. It also has partial support for Advanced Sub Station Alpha. The developers of Gaupol put a great deal of effort into making it conform to user interface guidelines. Which means it is a higher quality application at the expense of some of the more advanced features that can be found in other editors such as subtitle editor. This makes Gaupol more useful for translation than for initial subtitle creation.

It is recommended that you use the version available in the repository, rather than downloading the latest source code from the development website. However, if you choose to install the latest version then go to the website linked above for instructions.

To enable spellchecking and encoding detectors install the addtional python packages: <code>python-enchant</code> and <code>python-chardet</code>. 
For  previewing your work you will also need to install <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MPlayer|MPlayer]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://www.videolan.org/vlc/|VLC]]</nowiki>.

=== Installation ===

<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install gaupol python-enchant python-chardet
</pre>

=== Recording ===

Applications --> Sound & Video --> Gaupol Subtitle Editor
