{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Screencast Team Reporting Page ==

Welcome to the ScreencastTeam reporting page. Every month this page should be filled with bullet points indicating the summary of some of the work we have been working on. As we work on something, try to summarise it here. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

* Keep it simple and short - single sentences are best. :)
* Try to summarise your work and not be over-detailed - we don't need to know specifics, just a summary of the kind
* Where possible, include relevant links.

You should get all your reporting included here by the '''22nd''' of every month. We then add them to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TeamReports

=== The Report ===

Add your report items here.

==== To be filed for November ====

* Filed [rt.ubuntu.com #328] "Romanian text in Drupal not rendering" to get rendering of non-Latin1 text in drupal working

==== Filed for October ====

* Meeting held on 24th Sept: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070924
* Applied to become an official team. Rejected at 3 votes to 2.
* Started spec for <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/screencasts-in-ubuntu|Screencasts In Ubuntu]]</nowiki> 
* New screencast contributions received and uploaded for Xubuntu
* Updated the site with new translations of subtitles (many Romanian ones for example)
* Filed RT #29230 to get screencast hosting moved "in house" to better manage the drupal install of the site
* Experienced site slow down due to popularity of screencasts and inappropriate hosting configuration
* Had hosting of static content moved to a separate xen domain (also part of rt #29230)
* Discussed ways to improve screencast request and processing prior to production.

==== Filed for September ====

* Started month of screencasts
* Added screencast site RSS feed to planet ubuntu
* Added RSS feeds to popular podcasting site "feedburner" so that we can enable users to download screencasts using podcatcher programs.
* Added large (HD720p) Ogg feed to Miro (democracyplayer as was) as a channel, so people can watch screencasts within their player.
* Fielded questions from external non-English speaking people about subtitle translation
* Recruited a member to transcribe screencasts to .srt caption/subtitle files for translation
* Recruited a member to write a script to make video conversion easier
* Meeting held on 10th Sept:- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070910
* Subtitles added to the site:- http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/Subtitle_Usage

----
CategoryTeamReport
