{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== ScreencastTeam Meetings ==

The ScreencastTeam meetings are currently not regularly scheduled. Meetings are held at #ubuntu-screencasts, irc.freenode.net. They are open for everyone interested and/or participating in the ScreencastTeam.

=== Next meeting ===

* '''When''': TBA
* '''Start''':00:00 UTC
* '''End''': 00:00 UTC
* '''Timezone''': <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedpanel.html|UTC]]</nowiki>
* '''Where''': #ubuntu-screencasts on irc.freenode.net
* '''Chaired By''': AlanPope
* '''Agenda''': <nowiki>[[ScreencastTeam/Meeting20080806]]</nowiki>
=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntu-screencasts. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| 
| 
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

 

=== Previous Meetings ===
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070924 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070910
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070827
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScreencastTeam/Meeting20070212
