{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* THIS IS THE OFFICIAL VERSION APPROVED 2007-03-05 *

=== Get your meeting summarized ===

# Post your Team's agenda to MeetingLogs under your Team or ``Lo``Co name using this <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MeetingTemplate| template]]</nowiki>. (eg <code>MeetingLogs/<YourTeam>/<yyyymmdd></code>) Alternatively, if your Team or ``Lo``Co has a seperate site, create a similar structure there and use the same template. 
# Contact the ScribesTeam '''''at least 48 hours''''' before the meeting is scheduled. 

  Please include:

** Team Name
** Date and Time (UTC preferred)
** Location (channel)
** Moderator Contact info (irc nickname): the one running the meeting
** A link to the meeting agenda

  '''NOTE:''' If you have not received confirmation within 24 hours, please contact us in #ubuntu-scribes on irc.freenode.net.

# Hold your meeting as normal, using the bot tags described <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot| here]]</nowiki>.
# Contact the ScribesTeam again and confirm that the meeting took place. 
# The summary and log will be placed on the agenda you gave a link for. An email will be sent when log and summary have been posted to the page.
----
CategoryScribesTeam
