{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This Page Contains a listing of Current Locations for Meeting Logs and Summaries. Feel free to add to this list. If you have questions contact the ScribesTeam.

* LOCATION: The wiki page containing either an agenda, logs, a summary or attendance. If these items appear on different pages, they should be listed separately, unless there is a page already in existence which links to all of them.
* TYPE should be set to '''Team''' for Team collections; '''General''' for collections of multiple teams. '''Event''' for all special events.
* RATING should be between 1 and 5, and set as whole for the collection linked from the page listed. This will be used to determine which need more help with logging and summarizing. As a guide:
** '''1''': Poor quality - raw log only. May not be possible to bring up to high quality with available information.
** '''3''': Medium quality - Some summary present, Agenda listed, raw log avaliable. Possible to bring up to high quality.
** '''5''': High quality - Summary includes Agenda, attendance list, minutes discussing each item on the agenda and a full meeting log

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location'''
| '''Type'''
| '''Rating'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs]]</nowiki>
| General
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[DevelTeamMeetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[BugSquad/Meeting]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam/Meeting]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[EdubuntuMeetingRecords]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[ForumCouncil/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[Kubuntu/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[MOTU/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[MozillaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[AustralianTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[BugHelper/Dev/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[CanadianTeam/Toronto/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[ChicagoTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[DapperDelayMeetingSummary]]</nowiki>
| Event
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam/MeetingAgenda]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[GreekTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[NebraskaTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[OhioTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[UbuntuInstantServerMeetingSummaries]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[UtahTeam/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[Accessibility/Team/MeetingAgenda]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[DesktopEffectsTeam/Meeting/Agenda]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[MeetingAgendas]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[UKTeam/MeetingNotes]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings]]</nowiki>
| Team
| -
|}

CategoryScribesTeam
