{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Welcome to the Ubuntu Community Contributed Scripts page.

== The Scripts ==

Let's fill this in with some useful scripts!

== About Scripts and this Page ==

=== What Are Scripts? ===
''Feel free to skip this section if it's too technical for your liking.''
One of the great things about Ubuntu (and indeed any Linux system) is that it is incredibly customisable, not least through scripts.  Scripts in this sense are programs written using the commands available in one of the Linux shells, commonly bash.  Scripts can do many things that you can do in any programming language, such as handle data, communicate with the user, run through 'if' statements and loops, but they are most powerful because they can use any program installed on the system and accessible through the command line.  Scripts can therefore be used to do all kinds of things, but are mainly used for performing repetitive tasks, or simplifying and combining multiple tasks or workflows. 

=== How Can Scripts Help Me? ===
Many Ubuntu users write scripts to do all kinds of useful things, this page is here to help them share their scripts.  The chances are you can find a script here which will help you do something, sooner or later.

=== Organising My Scripts: ===

=== Starting Scripts at Boot ===
To start scripts at boot, make sure the script is executable by using "ls -al".  If there are only r's and w's in the permissions, then type "sudo chmod -x scriptname".  

Once the script is set as executable, add the path to the script in /etc/rc.local with a "&" at the end of the line to run it as a new process.   
