{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Sean Davis, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Sean Davis
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~smd-seandavis
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SeanDavis
|}

== Who I am ==
''Tell us a bit about yourself.''

I am the current <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Contact|Xubuntu Technical Lead]]</nowiki>, an <nowiki>[[http://xfce.org/about/credits|Xfce Core Developer]]</nowiki>, a member of <nowiki>[[https://alioth.debian.org/users/bluesabre-guest/|pkg-xfce and PAPT in Debian]]</nowiki>, and maintainer of <nowiki>[[https://packages.debian.org/sid/catfish|catfish]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://packages.debian.org/sid/menulibre|menulibre]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://packages.debian.org/sid/mugshot|mugshot]]</nowiki> packages in Debian. I've been maintaining packages in Xubuntu (as a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-uploaders|~xubuntu-uploaders]]</nowiki>) for some time. I'm now seeking MOTU membership to better support the Ubuntu community with future package uploads and migrations. I have significant Python experience which may be particularly useful.

Also relevant, my <nowiki>[[SeanDavis-DeveloperApplication|xubuntu packageset application from 2014]]</nowiki>.

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

I've been using Ubuntu since 2005. I started contributing in 2011, became an Ubuntu member in 2013, and Xubuntu Technical Lead in 2014. In this time, I have worked with several community members and have contributed in many different areas: artwork, documentation, leadership, packaging, testing, and releases. I plan to continue contributing to the Ubuntu ecosystem for the foreseeable future.

I've worked with a variety of packages from blueman, xfce, and xdg-utils. This is a small number compared to what is available in universe, but I think I have pretty strong packaging experience and would not hesitate to reach out to others before uploading something I am unsure of.

=== My involvement ===
I first started contributing to Ubuntu in QA. I now spend most of my contribution time with application development and package maintenance. I help maintain several of the applications and packages featured in Xubuntu, including:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/catfish-search|Catfish]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/lightdm-gtk-greeter|LightDM GTK Greeter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/menulibre|MenuLibre]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mugshot|Mugshot]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://git.xfce.org/apps/parole|Parole Media Player]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/xfpanel-switch|Xfce Panel Switch]]</nowiki>

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* python: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/catfish-search|Catfish]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/menulibre|MenuLibre]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mugshot|Mugshot]]</nowiki> are all full-featured applications
* packaging, python: Merged <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blueman/2.0-1ubuntu1|blueman 2.0]]</nowiki> from debian for the bluez5 transition
* packaging: Merged <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xdg-utils/1.1.0~rc3+git20150907-1ubuntu1|xdg-utils 1.1.0 RC3]]</nowiki> from unstable. Required reviewing and updating our Ubuntu patches.
* packaging: Sponsored several package for Xubuntu team members: <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Sean+Davis&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsorship Miner]]</nowiki>
* packaging: Also had a few packages sponsored recently: <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Sean+Davis&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsorship Miner]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''
==== Xfce ====
'''Catfish''' (with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ochosi|Simon Steinbeiß]]</nowiki>)

With Simon's design direction, I took over maintenance of Catfish and brought the application up to modern standards. We've since ported to GTK3, improved the search backend to support multiple engines, and incorported GTK client-side decorations to make a high-quality, very polished application.

'''Parole Media Player''' (with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ochosi|Simon Steinbeiß]]</nowiki>)

I've been working with Simon on Parole Media Player since we took over maintainership in 2013.  Since then, we've fixed numerous long-standing bugs, improved the codebase, and ported the application to GTK 3 and GStreamer 1.0, and introduced a new Clutter-based video backend.  The codebase has entered maintenance mode at this point, being quite stable and functional.

'''Xfce Display Settings''' (with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ochosi|Simon Steinbeiß]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mrpouit|Lionel Le Folgoc]]</nowiki>)

I worked together with Lionel and Simon to improve multihead support in Xfce.  Simon and I have continued maintenance on this portion of the Settings Manager, and introduced a new drag-n-drop interface with Xfce 4.12.

==== LightDM GTK+ Greeter Team ====
'''LightDM GTK+ Greeter''' (with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ochosi|Simon Steinbeiß]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mrpouit|Lionel Le Folgoc]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kalgasnik|Andrew P.]]</nowiki>)

Since taking over maintenance of lightdm-gtk-greeter, we've substantially improved theming support and reliability of the code.  These days, I review merge requests of new features and review bug reports.  Andrew has largely taken up the maintainership of this application, though I continue to manage releases.

==== Xubuntu Developers ====
As the Xubuntu Technical Lead, I currently help direct the development direction of Xubuntu. I work with other Xubuntu teams to determine release goals and work to meet those goals. I also maintain several core Xubuntu applications and add applications (such as Xfce Panel Switch in wily) to fill new feature proposals.

=== Things I could do better ===
I would currently like to expand Xubuntu development efforts and garner more interest in our project.  Our development team is currently spread a bit thin, and upstream Xfce is not in much better shape at this time.  So, improved/increased community outreach.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===
My previous statement from my xubuntu packageset application still stands.

''As a core member of the Xubuntu team, I am not going anywhere. My future plans remain consistent in helping Xubuntu grow in usability and popularity. I will continue to work with other teams to maintain the high quality software that is expected of our team.

I am going to lead the development efforts of Xubuntu to continue to provide our users with a stable, modern, and consistent experience in Xubuntu.''

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''

I don't have any current complaints about Ubuntu. In the past, I've cited last-minute, late-breaking changes as a significant issue that would catch (at least) our flavor off guard. Fortunately, this no longer seems to be an issue. :)

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
