{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Recently liberated Linux newbie with Ubuntu fascination ====
-------
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sean-salsman|Sean Salsman]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''spsalsm''' (''freenode'')
|-
| <|1(> '''Email''':
| sean [dot] salsman [at] gmail [dot] com
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bentonville,_Arkansas|Bentonville, Arkansas, USA]]</nowiki>
|}
=== About Me ===
I just kicked Windows to the curb and went 100% Ubuntu. It feels good! I'm a help desk analyst at NCR, and I just received my B.S. in Information Technology. I am very excited about open source, Linux, and Ubuntu in particular. I'm ''so'' impressed with Ubuntu. The OS is truly "wow", the community is awesome, and I would very much like to be a part of it. I'm working on learning Python so that I can contribute in a big way some day, but I am starting by joining the Bug Squad and triaging bugs. Who knows what could happen. I'm honored to participate in the Ubuntu phenomenon, and I'm glad to be here!

=== My Ubuntu Areas of Interest ===
I'm one of those people that haven't really figured out what I'm going to do with my career in IT, and I don't have a passion for one area above all others. I am, however, very interested in:

* programming<<BR>>
* networking<<BR>>
* desktop<<BR>>

But these are just off the top of my head. I love learning new things, and I just never know what is going to reach out and pique my interest. 

=== Availability ===
I am usually available from:

1800-0300 UTC, Monday through Friday

I live in Arkansas, United States, so I'm in (UTC -06:00), Central time. My local availability, therefore, is

1200-2100 CST, Monday through Friday

Basically noon to 9 p.m.. I have limited availability on weekends because of family commitments, but arrangements can be made. 

----
CategoryHomepage
