{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Week of June 15, 2009 ===

Goals for this week (Monica):

 1. Literature review around software installation process, potential names, etc.

** Looked at software choice/behavior where do they find software? how do they get it? Searching on software discovery, installation, installability, information seeking, purchase software, software diffusion, distribution, pre-packaged software, software delivery method, open source software usability
** Not a ton out there, maybe more in white papers? Most is in management of info sys literature and is from a management perspective (e.g. Szajna, B. "Software Evaluation and Choice: Predictive Validation of the Technology Accep- tance Instrument," MIS Quarterly (18:3), September 1994, pp. 319-324.)
** Some more formal OSS Usability studies:
** Smith, S. Engen, D., Mankoski, A., Frishberg, N., Nils Pedersen, N. & Benson, C. (2001). GNOME Usability Study Report. Sun GNOME Human Computer Interaction (HCI), Sun Microsystems, Inc.
** Athena, 2001. "Usability Testing of Athena User Interface," MIT Information Systems, at http://web.mit.edu/is/usability/aui/ 
** David M. Nichols, Kirsten Thomson, and Stuart A. Yeates, 2001. "Usability and Open Source Software Development," In: E. Kemp, C. Phillips, Kinshuck, and J. Haynes (editors). Proceedings of the Symposium on Computer Human Interaction. Palmerston North, New Zealand: SIGCHI New Zealand. pp. 49-54.
** Susanne Eklund, Michal Feldman, Mary Trombley, and Rashmi Sinha, 2002. "Improving the Usability of Open Source Software: Usability Testing of StarOffice Calc," Presented at the Open Source Meets Usability Workshop, Conference on Human Factors in Computer Systems (CHI 2002), Minneapolis, MN, at http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/~sinha/opensource.html
** Bruce Sterling, 2002. "A Contrarian Position on Open Source." Presented at the O'Reilly Open Source Convention, Sheraton San Diego Hotel and Marina, July 22-26, 2002. San Diego, CA, at http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/network/2002/08/05/sterling.html
** Nancy Frishberg, Anna Marie Dirks, Calum Benson, Seth Nickell, and Suzanna Smith, 2002. "Getting to Know You: Open Source Development Meets Usability," Extended Abstracts of the Conference on Human Factors in Computer Systems (CHI 2002). New York: ACM Press. pp. 932-933.
** M. Twidale & D.M Nichols, publish extensively about F/OSS usability:
** Nice collection of links http://people.lis.illinois.edu/~twidale/research/ossui/
** http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/~daven/docs/oss-wp.html
** http://people.lis.illinois.edu/~twidale/pubs.html
** People who cite them https://exchangeweb.drexel.edu/owa/redir.aspx?C=6a5310c2dbcc4aee865131b5e8c55d35&URL=http%3a%2f%2fscholar.google.com%2fscholar%3fnum%3d20%26hl%3den%26lr%3d%26newwindow%3d1%26client%3dfirefox-a%26cites%3d18443168390341416686
** J Seydel, OpenOffice. org: When Will It Be Ready for Prime Time? http://www.swdsi.org/swdsi2009/Papers/9K13.pdf
** Methodology ideas
** apply exploratory learning, constructivist education theory: Zhao, L. and Deek, F. P. 2006. Exploratory inspection: a learning model for improving open source software usability. In CHI '06 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (Montréal, Québec, Canada, April 22 - 27, 2006). CHI '06. ACM, New York, NY, 1589-1594. DOI= http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1125451.1125741 
** Overall, what do we learn from the literature?
** General consensus that usability is a blocking factor to increasing use
** OSS development process does not match that of traditional software development (obviously), can existing usability methods still find relevance? When and where? What can be imported from nearby fields?
** Struggling around methodology - how do you actually involve novice end users? 
*** Lot of talk about using existing tools, such as bug reporting tools. How to make them more visual and better for conveying interface ideas/issues.
*** Building in automatic bug reporting
*** Patterns, guidelines applied by developers

 1.#2 Review of wireframes
** Nielsen Heuristics (full descriptions -> http://www.useit.com/papers/heuristic/heuristic_list.html )
** Visibility of system status
** Match between system and the real world
** User control and freedom
** Consistency and standards 
** Error prevention 
** Recognition rather than recall
** Flexibility and efficiency of use
** Aesthetic and minimalist design 
** Help users recognize, diagnose, and recover from errors
** Help and documentation
** Notes:
** what are our options for categorical display - i.e. does it need to be traditionally hierarchical?
** can we show # of software in each category (and total)?
** do we know how much screen real estate typically allotted? designing for netbooks to desktops?
** abstract these even more for initial testing, relatively high fidelity
** categories are important but people will probably lean heavily on the search
** does there still need to be a link/connection to synaptic? when would that be exposed?
** software vs. app, should be consistent
** like how left column handles "state" instead of exploration taxonomy - like miro, hulu desktop might be interesting too

Next week:

 1. Naming!
