{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact ===
 Full name: Sebastien Lessard

 Contact: lesseb@gmail.com

=== About Me ===
 Well I discovered Ubuntu in september of 2006 with a friend giving me this Ubuntu 6.06 LTS CD. Figured I would install it to find out more. I was in the middle of a move at the time so I didnt have access to any of my backup cd's. What ended up happening is that the partitioning software in the Ubuntu install actually destroyed my other partitions, so I had a brand new Ubuntu install but nothing else, so I had to get use to it. Came to hate it at certain points, but the forum and the wiki we're always there to show me that something could be done, all the time. So now I actually use it by choice. I am a Student at the University of Lethbridge, in Computer Science. I am also a Canadian Military Officer (in training).

=== Interests ===
 Programming (c, c++, shell, ...whatever my degree will take me through!)

 Music: Guitar

 Games: yes I do have a small (10gb) WinXP partition that I use strictly for games, keeps it uncluttered.

=== Contribution(s) ===
 LaptopTestingTeam: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPDV5163CL|HP Pavillion dv5163cl]]</nowiki>
