{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Sebastian Heinlein, apply for upload rights for package(s) aptdaemon, python-defer, sessioninstaller, packagekit, gnome-packagekit.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Sebastian Heinlein
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~glatzor
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SebastianHeinlein>
|}

== Who I am ==

== My Ubuntu story ==

I started my OpenSource engagement back in 2003 contributing translations and documentation to the Synaptic package manager. Later I got involved in usability and redesigned the Synaptic interface to its current state. Furthermore I translated the Totem manual and did some minor translation work for the GNOME project.

Because I was low on time and energy I retired from opensource development in 2005 and returned in January 2006: filling a bug report against gnome-app-install. It was once again about interface issues. I rediscouvered the joy of community based software projects. Starting from this bug report I suggested a redesign of the interface for gnome-app-install. Thankfully Michael Vogt liked my proposal. This is a good place to say once again thanks to Michael Vogt.

Starting with user interface redesigns and implementations (gnome-app-install (the thing before software-center), software-properties and update-manager) I got deeper involved in the package installation stack. Quite early on I tried to push PackageKit and wrote a Python APT based backend to it. Because of design policy decistions of the PackageKit main developer which would have limited the use of APT in the way we needed I started the aptdaemon project some years ago that is used by software-center and update-manager to install and buy software.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===

aptdaemon -
python-defer - basically only maintainance work since it is feature complete
packagekit - mostly only syncs from Debian

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
