{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Introduction ===
Security team development (ie specification work) is done as time allows. This page does not include security updates, audits, investigations, etc. This page only includes information on proactive development work as it pertains to the <nowiki>[[LucidReleaseSchedule|Ubuntu Release schedule]]</nowiki>. Blueprints that the security team is committed to completing in a development cycle have an 'Essential' priority.

=== Specifications ===
==== Essential blueprints ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Blueprint'''
| '''Design'''
| '''Delivery'''
| '''Assignee'''
|-
| UbuntuSpec:security-lucid-apparmor-tunables
| Approved
| Implemented
| Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)
|-
| UbuntuSpec:security-lucid-catchall-essential
| Approved
| Implemented
| Kees Cook (kees)
|-
| UbuntuSpec:security-lucid-libvirt-apparmor-devel
| Approved
| Implemented^1^
| Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)
|-
| UbuntuSpec:security-lucid-screenlocking
| Approved
| Implemented
| Marc Deslauriers (mdeslaur)
|-
| UbuntuSpec:security-lucid-sponsorship-review
| Approved
| Implemented
| Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand)
|}

0. Most was implemented for Lucid, but one part had to be deferred to Maverick (properly support save/restore, but the karmic workaround is still in effect). All has been upstreamed and the merge from Debian is ready for Maverick.

==== Other blueprints ====
Security team originated blueprints:
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security?searchtext=security-lucid

Blueprints involving the security team:
* https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?searchtext=security-lucid

==== BurnDown (for all blueprints) ====
* Entire cycle: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-security.html
* Alpha-3: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/canonical-security-lucid-alpha-3.html
* Old breakdown: http://piware.de/workitems/security/lucid/report.html

=== Weekly summary ===
(Updated manually once Beta hits, currently not being updated for Lucid)

We fixed 0 RC bugs, got 0 new ones.

=== Milestoned Bugs ===
Fixed last week:
* None

Triaged problems:
* None

Bugs which need better understanding/debugging:
* None

==== Planned changes for Final ====
* None

==== Deferred for SRU ====
* None

=== Other Lucid-targeted bugs ===
* None

----
CategorySecurityTeam
