{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Contacts ==

=== To discuss Ubuntu security in general ===

* IRC: join #ubuntu-security on <nowiki>[[ https://libera.chat/ | Libera.Chat ]]</nowiki>.
* mailing list: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com.

=== To discuss security fix packaging ===

* IRC: join #ubuntu-motu on <nowiki>[[ https://libera.chat/ | Libera.Chat ]]</nowiki>.
* mailing list: ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com

=== To report private security bugs ===

* please use <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net | Launchpad ]]</nowiki> and check the "Security" flag

or
 
* you may send en email to security@ubuntu.com. GPG can be used to encrypt these messages. Please use the following key:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Key ID
| Key Fingerprint
|-
| security@ubuntu.com
| <nowiki>[[https://keyserver.ubuntu.com/pks/lookup?fingerprint=on&op=index&search=0x75E1451E529B51E19006CD5E91EC85F1DA9A776D | 75E1451E529B51E19006CD5E91EC85F1DA9A776D ]]</nowiki>
| <code> 75E1 451E 529B 51E1 9006  CD5E 91EC 85F1 DA9A 776D </code>
|}

Please also see the <nowiki>[[ https://ubuntu.com/security/disclosure-policy | Ubuntu Security disclosure and embargo policy ]]</nowiki>.

=== To participate in the Ubuntu Security Team ===

* Please see <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved|GettingInvolved]]</nowiki>.

=== Contacting Ubuntu Security Team Members directly ===

All security team members can be reached at security@ubuntu.com. The GPG key ids for the security team members can be found on their individual Launchpad pages which are linked to on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+members#active|the security team's page]]</nowiki>. Currently, the keys are:
 

=== New bot account for sending USN emails ===

The Ubuntu Security Team has launched a new, centralized way of sending out USN (Ubuntu Security Notices) emails.
You should consider the PGP signed USN emails that you receive from the following address as valid and correct. For the foreseeable future, you will also continue to receive USN emails directly from our team members as well.
The following key is being used to sign those emails:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Key ID
| Key Fingerprint
|-
| noreply+usn-bot@canonical.com
| <nowiki>[[https://keyserver.ubuntu.com/pks/lookup?fingerprint=on&op=index&search=729266DED9738601 | 729266DED9738601]]</nowiki>
| <code> FBC9 DE04 B3B6 1E9F E9A4  F94E 7292 66DE D973 8601 </code>
|}

----
CategorySecurityTeam
