{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This project is closed. Please see https://launchpad.net/nubuntu instead.

=== Summary ===

The purpose of this project is to have an Ubuntu LiveCD with useful network security tools.
Current version is 0.1 (Nov 9, 2005) based on Ubuntu 5.10 LiveCD

Contributors welcome. Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-securitylivecd

=== Applications to Install ===

Some places to start:
* http://www.knoppix-std.org/tools.html
* http://backtrack.offensive-security.com/index.php?title=Tools
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InstallingSecurityTools?highlight=%28nmap%29
* http://www.phlak.org/modules/sections/index.php?op=viewarticle&artid=1
* http://sectools.org

Note: some applications are not going to make much sense in a LiveCD to use on the field but it's good to have them as learning/teaching/demo tools.

=== Applications and Data to Take Out ===

From Gnome menu:

Applications:
* accessories:
* Games: (all)
* Graphics: (all)
* Internet: (all except firefox)
* office: (all)
* sound & video: (all)
* system tools:
** Applicatins menu editor
** Bug report tool
System:
* preferences?

Other: languages (leave English only)

=== Creation of Version 0.1 of Ubuntu Security LiveCD ===

Notes about the creation of this CD:

* Used instructions from: https://wiki.ubuntu.com//LiveCDCustomizationHowTo/
* At this point I want the candidate applications to be installed must be available using apt-get from available repositories (including universe).
* kernel version is 2.6.12-9.21

==== Installed ====

Note: names used are the names of the packages (sometimes is different from the user application. Some version numbers are added for reference).

Note: this should be group in something like:

* Intrusion Detection
* Vulnerabililty Assessment
* Forensics
* Network utilities
* Other

Note: add links to items in this list.

********* nmap 3.81
********* nessus 2.2.4
********* chkrootkit 0.45
********* tcpdump (already there)
********* kismet	
** ethereal
** etherape
** seahorse
** nemesis	

** airsnort
** curl
** arping
** arpwatch
** clamav
** nbtscan
** nikto
** p0f
** siege 2.61
** snort
** netcat (already there)
** httptunnel
** netsed
** dsniff
** ngrep
** john
** wenglish
** linneighborhood
** ntop
** smbclient, smbfs (already there)		
** tcptrack
** swatch
** honeyd
** labrea
** biew
** fenris
** foremost
** wipe
** zebedee

Not in repositories: (some will be added in a later version)

********* airtraf
** hydra
** arpfetch
** arpspoof
** exodus
** firewalk
** ncpquery
** screamingcobra
** airsnarf
** icmpshell
** shadyshell
** stegtunnel
** tcpstatflow
** snot
** ipmagic
** gspoof
** packetto
** aimsniff
** filesnarf
** mailsnarf
** msgsnarf
** urlsnarf
** webspy
** chntpw
** cmospwd
** pwl9x
** rcrack
** argus
** cdpr
** acid
** logsnorter
** md5sum
** thd
** bsed
** fatback
** md5deep
** pasco
** readdbx
** readoe
** rifiuti
** secure_delete

** dnsspoof
** hping2

To be added later:
* Paketto Keiretsu
* amap

==== Taken Out ====

Note: Using dpk --purge

Note: Based in list from: http://svn.gnome.org/viewvc/livecd-project/trunk/remaster.conf?revision=71&view=markup

************* ubuntu-desktop
** openoffice.org2 (move to end?)
** openoffice.org2-base
** openoffice.org2-math
** openoffice.org2-impress
** openoffice.org2-gnome
** openoffice.org2-calc
** openoffice.org2-writer
** openoffice.org2-draw
** openoffice.org2-evolution
** python-uno
** openoffice.org-common -core NO!!
** evolution-exchange
** evolution-plugins
** evolution
** gimp
** ttf-baekmuk & /usr/share/fonts/truetype/baekmuk
** xscreensaver-gl
** xscreensaver
** update-notifier
** update-manager	
** parted
** mutt (not installed)
** fetchmail
** ttf-kochi-mincho
** ttf-kochi-gothic & /usr/share/fonts/truetype/kochi
** rss-glx		

This list has to increment.

==== Creation of CD ====

I got an error while doing '''$ umount /mnt''' "device is busy"; to find the processes that are using the partition I did: '''$ fuser -u /mnt''', and that gave me the PIDs of those programs (they were: arpwatch, freshclam -that's  clamAV- and snort), In order to terminate them I can '''kill''' them or do '''$ fuser -k /mnt'''

Extra things to delete in extracted_cd:

There are lots of stuff to rm. At this point I only deleted:
* /doc/install/manual
* /programs/openoffice/

There's many things that need revisiting here.

NOTE: testing with qemu (qemu -cdrom liveimage.iso -boot d) didn't work

==== Testing ====

Created CD "version 0.1" booted fine; operating system works well.

Size is 540.8 MB

Testing of added programs:

There where problems with some graphical applications. Some need to be configured before burning CD.

Graphical:

* seahorse	OK
* etherape 	OK
* ethereal 	NO: "Could not set capabilities: Operation not permitted"
* ntop		NO: cannot write to /var/lib/ntop/prefsCache.db
* nessus		NO: "could not open a connection to localhost" (no server running?)
* airsnort	OK? (starts, no wifi)
* linneighborhood (LinNeighborhood) OK	

CLI:

* chkrootkit	OK 
* curl		OK
* arping		OK
* arpwatch	OK
* clamav		OK
* nbtscan	OK
* nikto		OK
* p0f		OK
* siege		OK
* snort		OK (sudo snort -h 192.168.0.0/24 -c /etc/snort/snort.conf
* netcat (nc)	OK
* httptunnel (htc, hts) OK
* netsed		OK
* dsniff		OK
* ngrep		OK
* john		OK
* wenglish	OK (at /usr/share/dict/american-english)
* smbclient 	OK
* tcptrack	OK	
* swatch		OK
* labrea		OK
* biew		OK
* fenris		NO: libc mapping problem
* foremost	Ok
* wipe		OK
* zebedee	OK

=== Version 0.2 ===

For this version we have to improve the two taks:
* installed programs: 
** make work all of them
** add important missing tools
* remove more programs and data

(Dec 8, 05)
Let's see if we can have a beta version before next year.

We need a list of infosec applications classified in "must have" (to include in the beta) and "nice to have" (to try adding later on). 

Attributes to write about these apps: name, url, size (packaged) and comments if needed

==== Must Have ====

* ethereal http://www.ethereal.com/ 9.6MB (tar.gz), 7.7MB (tar.bz2) - Graphical, needs post-installation
* nessus http://nessus.org/ 5.2MB (aprox, source) - Graphical option, needs post-installation

==== Nice to Have ====
