{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===
Debian and Ubuntu share a lot of the same software and collaboration with each other is beneficial to both distributions. The information in this page should be considered supplemental to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu/ForDebianDevelopers|Ubuntu/ForDebianDevelopers]]</nowiki>, and that page should be considered mandatory reading for Debian Developers who have not worked with Ubuntu before. There is also a lot of information on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/|working with the Ubuntu Security team]]</nowiki> in general.

The Ubuntu Security team adheres to responsible disclosure and coordination with other vendors and upstreams. It is hoped that Debian Developers and members of the Debian Security team will find the information in this page valuable for collaborating with Ubuntu and providing updates in Debian.

=== Contacting ===
To report a security vulnerability in Ubuntu,
please file a bug in Launchpad, being sure to check 'This bug is a security vulnerability'. Security bugs are initially marked private and can only be seen by members of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security|Ubuntu Security team]]</nowiki>.

If you prefer to contact the Ubuntu Security team directly, please send an
email to security@ubuntu.com.

Ubuntu Security team members should also be available in '''#debian-security''' on OFTC,
'''#ubuntu-security''' on Freenode, and regularly participate in the oss-security mailing list.

Important links:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug
* mailto:security@ubuntu.com

=== Ubuntu Security Notices ===
Like Debian, Ubuntu issues security notices (Ubuntu Security Notices or USNs)
for packages that are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/FAQ#Official%20Support|officially supported]]</nowiki>. USNs are sent to the moderated ubuntu-security-announce mailing list and also updated on the Ubuntu website. Unlike Debian, not all packages in the Ubuntu archive which receive security updates will receive a security notice. For packages that are not officially supported, we encourage community members and interested Debian Developers to <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-GettingInvolved|get involved]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved#Fix%20security%20bugs|fix security bugs]]</nowiki>.

Important links:
* http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/ (USN website)
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-security-announce (mailing list)
* https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-security-announce/ (archive for mailing list)

=== CVE tracking ===
The Ubuntu Security team uses the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker|Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki> (UCT) to track information on CVEs. Several times a week an Ubuntu Security team member
will review CVEs in <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cve/|MITRE]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://nvd.nist.gov/|NVD]]</nowiki>, oss-security, Debian and other distributions for new and updated information on CVEs. As CVEs are researched by Ubuntu Security team
and community members, the Ubuntu CVE Tracker is updated with information. This
information typically contains links to patches, commits, bugs (Ubuntu, Debian, upstream,  and other vendors), vendor updates,
USNs, and/or notes for particular versions. The CVE information is exported in
an HTML format that is searchable. Ubuntu Security team members regularly update the Debian security-tracker for 'not-for-us' CVEs information and embedded-code-copies updates. For more information on contributing to and
using UCT, please see the README file.

Important links:
* http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/ (search page to UCT)
* http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/priority.html (list of priority levels for CVEs in Ubuntu)
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker/trunk (UCT bzr branch)
* http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/ubuntu-cve-tracker/master/view/head:/README (README file for UCT)

=== Bug tracking ===
Security bugs in Ubuntu are tracked in
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu|Launchpad]]</nowiki>. It is important to note that
because of the specific types of information that the Ubuntu Security team and
MOTU-Swat teams track, CVEs are typically not tracked in Launchpad at this
time, but instead in the Ubuntu CVE Tracker (UCT). That said, Debian Developers
should feel free to file security bugs in Launchpad, and a member of the Ubuntu
Security team will triage that bug and add or update the corresponding CVE in
UCT. In addition, Ubuntu developers file bugs with Debian with patches to fix vulnerabilities in Debian when there is no corresponding Debian bug, and add this information to UCT.

Important links:
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu

=== Finding updates in Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu security updates should use the same patch system as the Debian package. Ubuntu Security Notices contain links to source packages and binaries as well as additional package information via Launchpad, so for officially supported packages navigating to the USN should be all that is needed. For community-supported packages, lookup the CVE in UCT. If it is marked 'released', there should be version information for the package. You can then go to Launchpad to find the relevant information.

All security updates in Ubuntu go to what is called the 'security pocket' (see our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/FAQ#Repositories|FAQ]]</nowiki> for more information on pockets) and are copied to security.ubuntu.com.

Important links:
* http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/
* http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/
* http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ (security pocket containing all Ubuntu security updates)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/<source package name>]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/<source package name>/<version>]]</nowiki>

=== Getting updates into Ubuntu ===
When a package in Ubuntu has the same version as a version in Debian, it is
often eligible for syncing into Ubuntu. For syncing packages from Debian into
the Ubuntu development release, please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu/ForDebianDevelopers#How%20can%20I%20ask%20Ubuntu%20to%20copy%20my%20package%20from%20Debian?|"How can I ask Ubuntu to copy my package from Debian?"]]</nowiki> from the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu-ForDebianDevelopers]]</nowiki> page.

In stable releases of Ubuntu where the Ubuntu package has the same version as
in Debian, the Ubuntu Security team will perform a sync from Debian (called a
'security fake sync'). These are typically performed weekly by a member of the
Ubuntu Security for packages that are not officially supported. Officially
supported packages are not eligible for security fake syncs and should instead
use a backported patch. The Ubuntu Security team and community will use the D2U website to see what packages are eligible for syncs.

For packages in the development release of Ubuntu that have a delta from
Debian, the package from Debian can be <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging|merged into Ubuntu]]</nowiki>. A merge takes the new Debian version and applies the previous
relevant Ubuntu delta.

For packages in stable releases of Ubuntu that have a different version than
what is in Debian, a <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-UpdatePreparation#Packaging|patch should be backported]]</nowiki>.

It is encouraged that merges and backported patches have a Launchpad bug opened and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu/ForDebianDevelopers#How%20can%20I%20indicate%20that%20a%20bug%20filed%20in%20Ubuntu%20against%20one%20of%20my%20packages%20is%20fixed%20in%20Debian?|automatically close]]</nowiki> the bug via the debian/changelog.

For community-supported packages, either a member of the Ubuntu Security team or the MOTU-Swat team can help with sponsoring patches into Ubuntu.

Important links:
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/UpdateProcedures (general update procedures)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/SponsorsQueue#Notes%20for%20Contributors|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/SponsorsQueue]]</nowiki> (getting your patches sponsored into Ubuntu)
* http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/d2u/
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security
* https://launchpad.net/~motu-swat

----
CategorySecurityTeam CategoryProcess
