{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:secure-login-screen
* '''Created''': 2007-4-12  by Lean Fuglsang 
* '''Contributors''': Lean Fuglsang 
* '''Packages affected''': GDM, X, Kernel 
* '''See also''':
=== Summary ===
Implement a trusted key combination ctrl+alt+delete , that shows the login screen. Show a screen that says you have to press ctrl+alt+delete before you log in. 

=== Rationale ===
When multiple users use the same machine, one user can get the password of another user by creating a fullscreen application that looks like the login screen.

=== Use Cases ===

** Bob is a user in a corporate network, where a lot of people share the computers. When Bob logs in for the first time, he sees a message 'You have to press Control+Alt+Delete, before you can log in (read more here)'. The next time Bobs has to log in, he uses the Control+Alt+Delete combination, and feels more secure.

=== Scope ===

This specification covers feature specifications for GDM, X, fast user switching, the kernel, maybe others.

=== Design ===

** Hide the login screen from GDM, and only show it when Ctrl+Alt+Delete is pressed.
** Make sure that no userspace program can use information of the Ctrl+Alt+Delete combination (or any other combination we choose to use).
** Let a root daemon run when a Gnome session is started, that can grab Ctrl+Alt+Delete keypresses. Let this demon switch to GDM when the keys are pressed, so a new user can login. The switching to GDM should be done with a flag, so GDM knows that Ctrl+Alt+Delete already have been pressed.
==== Implementation Plan ====

No implementation plan yet.

=== Implementation ===
No implementation yet.

=== Outstanding Issues ===
