{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu 20.04 Expanded Security Maintenance ==

Canonical provides Expanded Security Maintenance (ESM) for Ubuntu 20.04 LTS. The support lifecycle of ESM is tracked on the <nowiki>[[Releases#Extended_Security_Maintenance|Releases]]</nowiki> page.

== What's covered with ESM under Ubuntu Pro? ==

During the lifetime of an Ubuntu release, Canonical provides security maintenance covering binary packages that reside in the 'main' and 'restricted' components of the Ubuntu archive, as well as <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/security/livepatch|Linux kernel Livepatching]]</nowiki>, for an additional 5 year period after the end of standard support. This <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/FAQ#Official_Support|FAQ entry]]</nowiki> contains more information.

In addition to that, Canonical continues to provides security maintenance for packages that reside in the 'universe' repository through the ESM Apps offering under Ubuntu Pro, available since the initial release date.

For Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, where technically feasible, Canonical will provide expanded security maintenance to binary packages for the 64-bit x86 AMD/Intel (amd64), 64-bit ARM (arm64), IBM POWER (ppc64el) and IBM Z and LinuxONE (s390x) architectures. 

See the <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/security/esm|ESM page]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/legal/ubuntu-pro-description|Ubuntu Pro service description]]</nowiki> for additional details.

A set of packages is receiving updates only through the Snap Store as listed below.

=== Firefox / Thunderbird / Chromium / LibreOffice ===

Firefox, Thunderbird, Chromium and !LibreOffice are made available only through the Snap Store. Get the latest supported version at:
* https://snapcraft.io/firefox
* https://snapcraft.io/thunderbird
* https://snapcraft.io/chromium
* https://snapcraft.io/libreoffice

To ease transitioning to the Snap version we created this article on <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/how-to-customize-the-firefox-snap-with-enterprise-policies/23074|customizing the Firefox Snap with your enterprise policies]]</nowiki>.
