{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 10 November 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 149 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 50 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 5 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 21 security issues (CVEs) across 5 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3476-1|[USN-3476-1] postgresql-common vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3346-3|[USN-3346-3] Bind vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3473-1|[USN-3473-1] OpenJDK 8 vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3475-1|[USN-3475-1] OpenSSL vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3474-1|[USN-3474-1] Liblouis vulnerability ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* spice-vdagent underway (LP: #Bug:1200296)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Development ====
* (snapd) submitted fix for for /dev/pts slave EPERM fix - PR 4159 and 4160 (2.29)
* (snapd) submitted fix for modprobe failure causing all security backends to fail - PR 4162
* (snapd) submitted fix for raw-usb udev_enumerate issue - PR 4164 and 4165 (2.29)
* (snapd) created policy-updates-xxxii PR for master (PR 4180) and 2.29 (PR 4181), coordinate with snapd team. Among other things, this has a workaround rule for the above electron denial
* (snapd) submitted 'add test-policy-app spread test' - PR 4157
* updated eCryptfs -next branch for linux-next testing and got it ready to create a 4.15 pull request
* snapd reviews
** 'fix udev tagging for hooks' - PR 4144
** 'drop group filter from seccomp rules' PR 4185
** 'support bash as base runtime' PR 4197
* landed documentation for the new (Linux 4.14) seccomp dynamic logging support in the upstream Linux man-pages project: <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/docs/man-pages/man-pages.git/commit/?id=2577dbba2b4f0906d2941e5f38095a494537b255|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/docs/man-pages/man-pages.git/commit/?id=6d1728dad1adcfae9248081a9c39ced2a16bd160|2]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/docs/man-pages/man-pages.git/commit/?id=17c56ad055e349b690cf4eb6ff375df86c1136b7|3]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/docs/man-pages/man-pages.git/commit/?id=f04207f4062e95d97a994586a4af30f6eab586e4|4]]</nowiki>

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[ https:--www.feistyduck.com-bulletproof-tls-newsletter-issue_33_why_tls_13_isnt_there_yet|Why TLS 1.3 isn’t there yet]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--salls.github.io-Linux-Kernel-CVE-2017-5123- |Exploiting CVE-2017-5123 with full protections. SMEP, SMAP, and the Chrome Sandbox!]]</nowiki>

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* Log: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Security/20171106
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
