{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Bluetooth/BlueZ information disclosure in BlueZ and remote code execution in the bluetooth L2CAP stack in the Linux kernel (CVE-2017-1000250, CVE-2017-1000251 aka BlueBorne) ===

Two issues were <nowiki>[[https://www.armis.com/blueborne/ | discovered]]</nowiki> in the BlueZ stack. The first issue, <nowiki>[[https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2017/CVE-2017-1000250.html | CVE-2017-1000250]]</nowiki>, is an information disclosure vulnerability in the Service Discover Protocol implementation in the BlueZ bluetoothd userspace daemon. A physically proximate unauthenticated attacker could use this to expose memory from the bluetoothd daemon.

The second issue, <nowiki>[[https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/2017/CVE-2017-1000251.html | CVE-2017-1000251]]</nowiki>, is a stack-based buffer overflow in the l2cap_config_rsp() function in the bluetooth L2CAP stack of the Linux kernel. This would normally result in remote code execution; however, Ubuntu kernels are built with the CONFIG_CC_STACKPROTECTOR configuration option enabled as a mitigation, turning a stack-based buffer overflow into a denial of service. A physically proximate unauthenticated attacker could use this to cause a denial of service (system crash).

The BlueZ upstream has a fix for CVE-2017-1000250 in their <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/bluetooth/bluez.git/commit/?id=9e009647b14e810e06626dde7f1bb9ea3c375d09 | git tree]]</nowiki>. Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, and Ubuntu 17.04 were affected. To address the issue ensure that <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/4.101-0ubuntu13.3 | bluez 4.101-0ubuntu13.3]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu 14.04 LTS), <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/5.37-0ubuntu5.1 | bluez 5.37-0ubuntu5.1 ]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS), or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/5.43-0ubuntu1.1 | bluez 5.43-0ubuntu1.1]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu 17.04) are installed. These updates were announced in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3413-1 | USN 3413-1]]</nowiki>.

The kernel issue, CVE-2017-1000251, was fixed in the upstream <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/linus/e860d2c904d1a9f38a24eb44c9f34b8f915a6ea3 | Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, Ubuntu 17.04, and Ubuntu 12.04 ESM were affected. As of 2017-09-18, updates are available for all releases, and were announced in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3419-1 | USN 3419-1 (Ubuntu 17.04)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3420-1 | USN 3420-1 (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3422-1 | USN 3422-1 (Ubuntu 14.04 LTS)]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3423-1 | USN 3423-1 (Ubuntu 12.04 ESM)]]</nowiki>, along with the corresponding Hardware Enablement (HWE) kernels.

===== Timeline =====
* 2017 Sept 05: received initial notification from Armis Labs
* 2017 Sept 12: <nowiki>[[https://www.armis.com/blueborne/ | BlueBorne advisory]]</nowiki> is made public
* 2017 Sept 12: <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/linus/e860d2c904d1a9f38a24eb44c9f34b8f915a6ea3 | linux kernel commit]]</nowiki> is made publicly available
* 2017 Sept 12: Ubuntu BlueZ updates are made available in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3413-1 | USN 3413-1]]</nowiki>
* 2017 Sept 18: Ubuntu kernel updates are made available in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3419-1 | USN 3419-1 (Ubuntu 17.04)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3420-1 | USN 3420-1 (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3422-1 | USN 3422-1 (Ubuntu 14.04 LTS)]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3423-1 | USN 3423-1 (Ubuntu 12.04 ESM)]]</nowiki>.
