{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 21 July 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 418 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 160 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 15 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 98 security issues (CVEs) across 14 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3347-2|[USN-3347-2] Libgcrypt vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3274-2|[USN-3274-2] ICU vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3354-1|[USN-3354-1] Apport vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3309-2|[USN-3309-2] Libtasn1 vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3307-2|[USN-3307-2] OpenLDAP vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3212-3|[USN-3212-3] LibTIFF vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3355-1|[USN-3355-1] Spice vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3356-1|[USN-3356-1] Expat vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3356-2|[USN-3356-2] Expat vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3357-1|[USN-3357-1] MySQL vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3358-1|[USN-3358-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3359-1|[USN-3359-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3360-1|[USN-3360-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3361-1|[USN-3361-1] Linux kernel (HWE) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3360-2|[USN-3360-2] Linux kernel (Trusty HWE) vulnerabilities ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* htop completed (LP: #Bug:1644364)
* parallax completed (LP: #Bug:1653959)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Development ====
* TO BE FILLED IN 

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* [[https://c3.nasa.gov/dashlink/static/media/other/ObservedFailures42.html| "...no IC greater than 16 pins...has worked according to its documentation..."] 
* [[https://www.iacr.org/archive/crypto2004/31520306/multicollisions.pdf|Multicollisions in iterated hash Functions]

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* The weekly meeting was canceled this week due to multiple members of the team being away at a sprint.
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
