{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 20 October 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 382 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 130 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 2 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 23 security issues (CVEs) across 4 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3456-1|[USN-3456-1] X.Org X server vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3455-1|[USN-3455-1] wpa_supplicant and hostapd vulnerabilities ]]

==== Previous Week's Ubuntu Security Notices ====
Since there was no weekly report last week, the previous week's Ubuntu Security Notices are posted here for reference. Published 20 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 53 security issues (CVEs) across 27 supported packages.

* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3454-1|[USN-3454-1] libffi vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3453-1|[USN-3453-1] X.Org X server vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3452-1|[USN-3452-1] Ceph vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3451-1|[USN-3451-1] OpenStack Swift vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3450-1|[USN-3450-1] Open vSwitch vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3449-1|[USN-3449-1] OpenStack Nova vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3448-1|[USN-3448-1] OpenStack Keystone vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3447-1|[USN-3447-1] OpenStack Horizon vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3446-1|[USN-3446-1] OpenStack Glance vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3436-1|[USN-3436-1] Thunderbird vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3445-2|[USN-3445-2] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3443-3|[USN-3443-3] Linux kernel (GCP) vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3444-2|[USN-3444-2] Linux kernel (Xenial HWE) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3445-1|[USN-3445-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3444-1|[USN-3444-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3424-2|[USN-3424-2] libxml2 vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3443-2|[USN-3443-2] Linux kernel (HWE) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3443-1|[USN-3443-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3442-1|[USN-3442-1] libXfont vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3441-1|[USN-3441-1] curl vulnerabilities ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* spice-vdagent underway (LP: #Bug:1200296)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Updates to Community Supported Packages ====
* Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided debdiffs for trusty-artful for git (LP: #Bug:1719740)

==== Development ====
* SRU verifications for libseccomp and seccomp kernel changes
* upstream work for libseccomp and libseccomp-golang
** libseccomp api-level-fixups PR (https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp/pull/98)
** libseccomp PR (https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp/pull/92#issuecomment-337476904)
* SRU for aureport (https://launchpad.net/bugs/1724152)
* snappy-debug updates for 2.28, improvements for execstack and netlink sockets
* add DBus denials (still no recommendations) to scanlog output, various cleanups, add (undocumented) --log-file to shell wrapper, investigate journalctl (won't do), add processing stdin with hint of how to use journalctl to pipe into scanlog

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[ https:--krebsonsecurity.com-2017-10-reaper-calm-before-the-iot-security-storm-|Reaper]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--www.krackattacks.com- |Krack]]</nowiki>

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* Log: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Security/20171016
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
