{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

     ''Other languages:'' <nowiki>[[es|Español]]</nowiki>

Software and software installers in Ubuntu need to be marked as <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-Policies#ExecutePermissionBitRequired|"executable"]]</nowiki> in order to be treated as runnable programs. This indicates to Ubuntu that the file is actually software and is trusted.  Normally and preferably software should be installed using the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter|Ubuntu Software Center]]</nowiki> which is the primary source of software in Ubuntu.

You should only mark a file as executable via the file <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions|permissions]]</nowiki> if you know what you are doing.

Files from outside the supported <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu|software repository]]</nowiki> are not marked as "executable" since they did not get installed via a trusted source.  Because of this, attempting to open/run downloaded files that are software will fail.  These files are blocked for security reasons to help unsuspecting users avoid <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malware|malware]]</nowiki> (i.e. malicious software like trojan horses, worms, and viruses).

Ubuntu Policy requires that <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Policies#Execute-Permission%20Bit%20Required|software not marked as executable not be runnable]]</nowiki>.  One of the most common ways you will see this is by having a package ship a <code>.desktop</code> file for a Mime``Type which executes the target file (.EXE, .JAR, etc).  This is not allowed unless the target file is already executable (or installed by a trusted software repository).

----
Read <nowiki>[[comments|user comments]]</nowiki>.
