{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 07 July 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. This was a short week for many on the team due to the holiday in the U.S. so the report is even shorter than normal.

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 120 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 40 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 5 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 45 security issues (CVEs) across 5 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3347-1|[USN-3347-1] Libgcrypt vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3348-1|[USN-3348-1] Samba vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3349-1|[USN-3349-1] NTP vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3321-1|[USN-3321-1] Thunderbird vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3350-1|[USN-3350-1] poppler vulnerabilities ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* gdm3 underway (LP: #Bug:1686393)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* There was no weekly meeting due to many team members being on vacation.
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[https://wikileaks.org/vault7/document/Gyrfalcon-2_0-User_Guide/page-1/#pagination | Gyrfalcon User Manual]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://marc.info/?l=openbsd-tech&m=149732026405941 | OpenBSD's Kernel Address Randomized Link]]</nowiki>

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
