{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 23 February 2018 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 202 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 32 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 14 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 51 security issues (CVEs) across 17 supported packages.
==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3583-2|[USN-3583-2] Linux kernel (Trusty HWE) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3583-1|[USN-3583-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3581-3|[USN-3581-3] Linux kernel (Raspberry Pi 2) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3582-2|[USN-3582-2] Linux kernel (Xenial HWE) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3582-1|[USN-3582-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3581-2|[USN-3581-2] Linux kernel (HWE) vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3581-1|[USN-3581-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3578-1|[USN-3578-1] WavPack vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3580-1|[USN-3580-1] Linux kernel vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3579-1|[USN-3579-1] LibreOffice vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3577-1|[USN-3577-1] CUPS vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3576-1|[USN-3576-1] libvirt vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3575-1|[USN-3575-1] QEMU vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3574-1|[USN-3574-1] Bind vulnerability ]]
==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* openjpeg2 (LP: #Bug:711061) paused
* brotli (LP: #Bug:1737053) underway
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Updates to Community Supported Packages ====
* Simon Deziel (sdeziel) provided a debdiff for artful for unbound (LP: #Bug:1723900)

==== Development ====
* snap review tools updates
* PR 4733, 4734 and 4736 for screen-inhibit-control and network-status policy bugs
* verified audit SRU
* work !AppArmor reload issue (LP: #Bug:1750594)
* reviews
** PR 1945 - elf: clear execstack by default
** PR 4720 - add xdg-desktop-portal support to desktop interface

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[ https:--arxiv.org-abs-1802.03367|When Textbook RSA is Used to Protect the Privacy of Hundreds of Millions of Users]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--www.harpercollins.com-9780062430489-the-woman-who-smashed-codes |The Woman Who Smashed Codes]]</nowiki> A True Story of Love, Spies, and the Unlikely Heroine Who Outwitted America's Enemies by Jason Fagone

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* There was no weekly meeting last week due to a U. S. holiday.
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
