{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 29 September 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 195 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 38 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 1 Ubuntu Security Notice which fixed 1 security issue (CVE) in 1 supported package.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3429-1|[USN-3429-1] Libplist vulnerability ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* python-pyelftools completed (LP: #Bug:1630073)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Development ====
* <nowiki>[[ https:--git.kernel.org-pub-scm-linux-kernel-git-torvalds-linux.git-commit-?h=v4.14-rc2&id=79444df4e7f03843be78e4b9188d095931648842 | AppArmor merge for 4.14 (rc2) ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--git.kernel.org-pub-scm-linux-kernel-git-torvalds-linux.git-commit-?id=c0a3a64e723324ae6dda53214061a71de63808c3 | Seccomp merge for 4.14 (rc2) ]]</nowiki>

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.icir.org-vern-papers-patch-study.ccs17.pdf|A Large-Scale Empirical Study of Security Patches]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.radiolab.org-story-ceremony- |The Ceremony]]</nowiki>

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* There was no weekly meeting on 25 September because the entire team was attending the Ubuntu Rally.
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
