{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 25 August 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 287 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 61 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 6 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 13 security issues (CVEs) across 6 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3402-1|[USN-3402-1] PySAML2 vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3401-1|[USN-3401-1] TeX Live vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3400-1|[USN-3400-1] Augeas vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3399-1|[USN-3399-1] cvs vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3398-1|[USN-3398-1] graphite2 vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3397-1|[USN-3397-1] strongSwan vulnerability ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* websockify (LP: #Bug:1108935) underway
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Updates to Community Supported Packages ====
* Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided a debdiff for trusty for kdepimlibs (LP: #Bug:1630700)
* Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided a debdiff for xenial for kcoreaddons (LP: #Bug:1630700)
* Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided debdiffs for trusty-zesty for varnish (LP: #Bug:1708354)

==== Development ====
* Updated review tools to calculate uncompressed squashfs size and error out if too large. Update to unpack to SNAP_USER_COMMON and cleanup stale review directories.
* review-tools fix for LP: #Bug:1712476
* review-tools: implement new 'reload-command' yaml and new execstack checks
* Submitted apparmor pull for artful to the Kernel Team.
* Submitted seccomp logging patch set for both artful 4.12 and artful 4.13 kernels.
* Submitted PR 3804 for user and group name lookups in snap-seccomp in support of snap privilege dropping.
* Submitted PR 3805 to stop hardcoding uids and gids (for 'root' and 'shadow').
* Submitted libseccomp PR for improved logging changes (https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp/pull/92).
* fixed a libseccomp test runner bug that was causing a class of tests to not run (https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp/pull/91).
* Work with design on 'Snap interfaces GUI descriptions'
* Perform various PR reviews in support of cross-distro and improved udev tagging
* Meet with snapd team (Gustavo) on final designs for new desktop interfaces (PR 3719)

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[ https:--kate.io-blog-2017-08-22-weird-python-integers- | Weird Python Integers ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--dvdhrm.github.io-rethinking-the-dbus-message-bus- | Rethinking the dbus message bus ]]</nowiki>

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* Weekly meeting was cancelled this week (eclipse watching)
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
