{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu 16.04 Extended Security Maintenance ==

Canonical provides Extended Security Maintenance (ESM) for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.  The support lifecycle of ESM is tracked on the <nowiki>[[Releases#Extended_Security_Maintenance|Releases]]</nowiki> page.

== What's covered with ESM? ==

During the lifetime of an Ubuntu release, Canonical provides security maintenance. Basic Security Maintenance covers binary packages that reside in the 'main' and 'restricted' components of the Ubuntu archive, as well as <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/security/livepatch|Linux kernel Livepatching]]</nowiki> typically for a period of 5 years from LTS release. This <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/FAQ#Official_Support|FAQ entry]]</nowiki> contains more information.

For Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, where technically feasible, Canonical will provide extended security maintenance to all binary packages that reside in the Ubuntu Main Repository for the 64-bit x86 AMD/Intel and s390 architectures. See the <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/legal/ubuntu-advantage/service-description#ua-esm|service description]]</nowiki> for additional details. A set of packages is receiving updates only through the snap store as listed below.

=== Firefox / Thunderbird / LibreOffice ===

Firefox, Thunderbird and !LibreOffice are made available only through the Snap Store. Get the latest supported version at:
* https://snapcraft.io/firefox
* https://snapcraft.io/thunderbird
* https://snapcraft.io/libreoffice

To ease transitioning to the Snap version we created this article on <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/how-to-customize-the-firefox-snap-with-enterprise-policies/23074|customizing the Firefox Snap with your enterprise policies]]</nowiki>.
