{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 16 June 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 327 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 81 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 5 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 33 security issues (CVEs) across 6 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3317-1|[USN-3317-1] Irssi vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3318-1|[USN-3318-1] GnuTLS vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3315-1|[USN-3315-1] Firefox vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3319-1|[USN-3319-1] libmwaw vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3320-1|[USN-3320-1] zziplib vulnerabilities ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* xdelta3 review complete (LP: #Bug:1647222)
* gdm3 underway (LP: #Bug:1686393)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Updates to Community Supported Packages ====
* Thanks to Chris Dunlap for providing a patch for munge (LP: #Bug:1287624)

==== Fake syncs ====
"Fake syncs" are security updates for community supported packages which are sync'd across from Debian with no changes, rebuilt in Launchpad and then released.
* libosip2
* tnef

==== Development ====
* AppArmor pull request for 4.13 submitted
   http://www.mail-archive.com/linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org/msg1418556.html

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* Log: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Security/20170612
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
