{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Kernel Exception Handling Flaws After MOV/POP to SS Instructions (CVE-2018-8897, CVE-2018-1087) ===

Nick Peterson discovered that the Linux kernel did not properly handle debug exceptions following a MOV/POP to SS instruction. A local attacker could use this to cause a denial of service (system crash). This issue only affected the amd64 architecture. (<nowiki>[[https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/CVE-2018-8897|CVE-2018-8897]]</nowiki>)

Andy Lutomirski discovered that the KVM subsystem of the Linux kernel did not properly emulate the ICEBP instruction following a MOV/POP to SS instruction. A local attacker in a KVM virtual machine could use this to cause a denial of service (guest VM crash) or possibly escalate privileges inside of the virtual machine. This issue only affected the i386 and amd64 architectures. (<nowiki>[[https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/CVE-2018-1087|CVE-2018-1087]]</nowiki>)

These issues were fixed in the Linux kernel by commits <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/linus/d8ba61ba58c88d5207c1ba2f7d9a2280e7d03be9|`x86/entry/64: Don't use IST entry for #BP stack`]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://git.kernel.org/linus/32d43cd391bacb5f0814c2624399a5dad3501d09|`kvm/x86: fix icebp instruction handling`]]</nowiki>. Ubuntu 17.10, 16.04 LTS, 14.04 LTS, and 12.04 ESM were affected. To address the issues, the majority of users should ensure that linux-image-4.13.0-41-generic 4.13.0-41.46 (Ubuntu 17.10), linux-image-4.4.0-124-generic 4.4.0-124.148 (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS), linux-image-3.13.0-147-generic 3.13.0-147.196 (Ubuntu 14.04 LTS), or linux-image-3.2.0-134-generic 3.2.0-134.180 (Ubuntu 12.04 ESM) is installed. Users of non-generic Ubuntu kernels should consult the published Ubuntu Security Notices for version information. These updates were announced in <nowiki>[[https://usn.ubuntu.com/3641-2/|USN 3641-1]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu 14.04 LTS, Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, Ubuntu 17.10) and <nowiki>[[https://usn.ubuntu.com/3641-2/|USN 3641-2]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu 12.04 ESM).

===== Timeline =====

* 2018 May 08: the issue is made public on the agreed upon coordinated release date
* 2018 May 08: USNS <nowiki>[[https://usn.ubuntu.com/3641-1/|3641-1]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://usn.ubuntu.com/3641-2/|3641-2]]</nowiki> are published
