{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Security Team Weekly Summary for 08 September 2017 ===

The <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam|Security Team]]</nowiki> weekly reports are intended to be very short summaries of the Security Team's weekly activities. 

If you would like to reach the Security Team, you can find us at the #ubuntu-hardened channel on FreeNode. Alternatively, you can mail the Ubuntu Hardened mailing list at: ubuntu-hardened@lists.ubuntu.com

During the last week, the Ubuntu Security team:
* Triaged 234 public security vulnerability reports, retaining the 109 that applied to Ubuntu.
* Published 6 Ubuntu Security Notices which fixed 15 security issues (CVEs) across 5 supported packages.

==== Ubuntu Security Notices ====
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3412-1|[USN-3412-1] file vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3411-1|[USN-3411-1] Bazaar vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3410-2|[USN-3410-2] GD library vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3410-1|[USN-3410-1] GD library vulnerability ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3409-1|[USN-3409-1] FontForge vulnerabilities ]]
* [[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-3408-1|[USN-3408-1] Liblouis vulnerabilities ]]

==== Bug Triage ====
* Backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+subscribedbugs

==== Mainline Inclusion Requests ====
* completed websockify, spice-html5 underway (LP: #Bug:1108935)
* nghttp2 underway (LP: #Bug:1687454)
* MIR backlog: https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-security/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=%5BMIR%5D

==== Updates to Community Supported Packages ====
* Gianfranco Costamagna provided a debdiff for xenial for check-all-the-things (LP: #Bug:1597245)
* Simon Quigley (tsimonq2) provided a debdiff for xenial for karchive (LP: #Bug:1712948)
* James Cowgill (jcowgill) provided debdiffs for xenial and zesty for mbedtls (LP: #Bug:1714640)

==== Call for Testing ====
* Updates for Wordpress are available in the security-proposed PPA and are just waiting for some testing before being published. Jump into #ubuntu-hardened on Freenode and ping the security team member on community duty if you are interested in helping test this community supported package. 

==== Development ====
* Submitted PR for snapcraft-desktop-helpers for new desktop interfaces
* <nowiki>[[https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/the-dbus-interface/2038|dbus interface documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/network-management-status-and-connectivity-interfaces/2040|Network management status and connectivity interfaces]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/the-desktop-interfaces/2042|desktop interfaces documentation]]</nowiki>
* Assist snapd team with socketcall testsuite regression triage
* Investigate and fix NETLINK_KOBJECT_UEVENT regression in 2.27.5 (fixed in 2.27.6

==== What the Security Team is Reading This Week ====
* <nowiki>[[ https:--krebsonsecurity.com-2017-09-equifax-breach-response-turns-dumpster-fire-|Equifax Breach Response Turns Dumpster Fire]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--www.usenix.org-system-files-conference-usenixsecurity17-sec17-redini.pdf |BootStomp]]</nowiki>

==== Weekly Meeting ====
* Log: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Security/20170904
* Info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/Meeting

==== More Info ====
* <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-security/cve/| Ubuntu CVE Tracker]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/usn/| Ubuntu security notices]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://www.twitter.com/ubuntu_sec| Follow Ubuntu Security on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/GettingInvolved| How to help improve Ubuntu security ]]</nowiki>
