{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Selecting default sound card in Kubuntu ===

If your computer has more than one sound card (device), Kubuntu may confuse between them. Gnome (and Ubuntu) has simple sound card selector, but KDE (and Kubuntu respectively) unfortunately has not. To select sound device which will be used by default in Kubuntu, please follow next procedure:

1. In console, type: 

<code> sudo asoundconf list </code>

It should output something like:

Names of available sound cards:
CK8S
Live

Here, "Live" and "CK8S" are names of sound devices. Due to nature of udev and ALSA, it's better to use name of device rather than it's number, since udev assigns device numbers at random, and they may vary across reboots.

2. If you want (as in my case) to use Sound Blaster Live! as your default sound device, type in console:

<code> sudo asoundconf set-default-card Live </code>

(here, "Live" is the name of sound device).

After that, Kubuntu should use Sound Blaster Live as default device for sound output.

==== Comment ====

kmix does not recognize added sound devices, e.g. head sets.  Workaround: Quit kmix and start it again.  --- allee
----
CategoryHardware CategoryHardware
