{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/sensible-desktop-project
* '''Created''':  by <nowiki>[[joelbryan| Joel Bryan Juliano]]</nowiki>
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[joelbryan| Joel Bryan Juliano]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': *ubuntu system

=== Summary ===

The Sensible Desktop Project exists to help create a consistent application names for free and Open Source software.

While many software have different names, the project aims to create a universal and generic names for different desktop.

GNOME have ''gcalctool'', KDE have ''kcalc'' and Microsoft Windows have ''calc'', all of them falls under the '''Calculator''' category, a suggested name for them will be ''calculator''.

=== Rationale ===

John tried Linux for the first time, and because he use run dialog to launch ''calc'' in Windows, he does the same with Linux. He hit Alt-F2
and run ''calculator'', then gcaltool fires up.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

Symbolic name can be use, linking them can be done by ln.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
