{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 1.1em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;">'''full name'''
| Sense Egbert Hofstede
|-
| '''<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_phonology|IPA]]</nowiki>'''
| [ˈsɛn.sə ˈɛɣ.bərt ˈɦɔf.steː.də]
|-
| '''location'''
| <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Dokkum,+Dongeradeel,+The+Netherlands&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=52.902929,114.169922&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=Dokkum,+Dongeradeel,+Friesland,+The+Netherlands&z=14|Dokkum, the Netherlands]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''time zone'''
| Europe/Amsterdam
|-
| '''Launchpad account'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sense|sense]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''blog'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.sehofstede.nl/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''email address'''
| 
|-
| '''OpenPGP key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x3049E70475844E50|75844E50]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Hello! I'm Sense Hofstede, an Ubuntu Member since February 2010 and an Ubuntu user since December 2005. This page contains a short overview of my past and current activities. For my membership application see <nowiki>[[Qense-MembershipApplication]]</nowiki>. In January 2011 I retired from my activities in the international community, only to return in September of the same year.

If I can be of any help to you - no support requests - please don't hesitate to mail me or contact me on IRC. However, I am busy, so I might not have time for doing what you want of me.

== Current Activities ==
* Bug Control member
* Councillor of Ubuntu Nederland
* Frisian Translation Coordinator at GNOME

== Past Activities ==
* Classroom sessions for the UbuntuOpportunisticDeveloperWeek and <nowiki>[[Upstream-Adopt|Adopt-an-Upstream]]</nowiki>
* Helper at the Ubuntu NL https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Qense#Current%20Activitiesstand at the HCC!Regiodagen in Drachten, 9 May 2009
* Member of the Ubuntu NL forum discussion group for the reorganisation of 2009
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-wanted|Ubuntu Wanted]]</nowiki>
* Restructured <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki>, rewrote <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://2010.guadec.org/|GUADEC 2010]]</nowiki> webmaster
* Bug Control member
** adoptee of <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage-Nautilus]]</nowiki>
* Code and patch contributions (<nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~qense/+branches?field.lifecycle=ALL&field.lifecycle-empty-marker=1&field.sort_by=most+recently+changed+first&field.sort_by-empty-marker=1|see my branches at Launchpad]]</nowiki>)
* Contributing leadership to the <nowiki>[[PaperCut|One Hundred Paper Cuts project]]</nowiki>
* Involved in some coding work for Indicator Application.
* Chair of ''<nowiki>[[DutchTeam|Ubuntu Nederland]]</nowiki>''

CategoryHomepage
