{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is Senthilraja Periaswamy, working as Software Engineer, in Cognizant Technology Solutions, Ltd.

I am an open source enthusiast for a long time.  Now being part of Ubuntu Tamil Team.  The reason for joining this team is, that majority of the people in Tamil nadu, doesnt have english proficiency.  This language barrier should not stop people from embracing Computer Technologies.  This very thought made me think, why shouldnt we have an OS in our own language.  Luckily, I came across Sri. Ramdhas, who is pioneering the tamil translation project for Ubuntu.

Educational Qualification:
B.Tech in Information Technology, in 2003 from PGP College of Engineering and Technology, Namakkal.
HSC in Trinity Academy Matric Higher Secondary school, Namakkal.
SSLC in Trinity Academy Matric Higher Secondary school, Namakkal.

Technical Proficiency:
Languages:  C, C++, Java, PHP, Ruby, VB,
OS: RedHat, Debian, Ubuntu, Windows (Till XP)

Technical Interests:

Staunch interest in Open Source Development.  I used to explore different open source softwares available in the net, particularly in SF.net .  Have been using Ubuntu for the past one year, and found it to be a perfect match for Windows.  Although, RedHat had established itself as one of the Opensource pioneer, I switched to Ubuntu for two reasons. 
1. The performance of Ubuntu is relatively stable.
2. It is derived from Debian which is known for its performance and speed.

Email: senthil.nkkl@gmail.com
