{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I use Linux since 2000, i start with Debian, Suse and now Ubuntu. I'm the founder, one of the contact point and one of the core members of the Cameroonian Local Community. Our main goal is to promote Ubuntu in Cameroon.

=== Contact details ===

* irc.freenode.org: septox
* e-mail: septox [at] gmail.com
* launchpad profile : https://launchpad.net/~septox
* blog: http://septox.net/

=== Contributions ===

==== Ubuntu-cm ====

* Administrator and owner of <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cm-board | Ubuntu-cm board]]</nowiki> team in Launchpad. This team is reserved to the members of the elected Loco Team Board.
* Administrator <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cm-users | ubuntu-cm-users]]</nowiki> team in Launchpad. This team is open for all cameroonians ubuntu users.
* Administrator <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cm-members | ubuntu-cm-members]]</nowiki> team in Launchpad. This team is closed for all cameroonians ubuntu users working on LoCoTeam projects.
* I actively participating to mounting the Ubuntu Cameroonian local community as association in Cameroon.
* I wrote and participated on writing, translations of many wiki pages included under https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CameroonianTeam/.

==== Launchpad ====

* The <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~septox | bug]]</nowiki> i reported.
* <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~septox | translations]]</nowiki> i made

=== Future involvement ===

* Contribute to validate the Cameroonian Loco <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CameroonianTeam/Roadmap | Road Map]]</nowiki>.
* Mounting a legal entity (association) in Cameroon.

=== Testimonials ===
If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

----
CategoryHomepage
