{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Serge Hallyn, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Serge Hallyn
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~serge-hallyn
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/SergeHallyn
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a member of the Ubuntu Server Team, employed by Canonical.  I'm involved
with packaging of libvirt, qemu, lxc, and cgmanager, am the Debian maintainer
for netcf, and on the debian packaging team for qemu.

== My Ubuntu story ==

My interest first shifted from sunos to linux when I got involved
in kernel development.  The ability to modify my own kernel was
a huge freedom.  I started with slackware, moved to redhat, then
gentoo, and finally Ubuntu.  My shift to Ubuntu was at first
practical, because it was the most likely at any time to 'just
work' on any given laptop.

In 2010 I joined Canonical to work on Ubuntu full time, with
the server team.

=== My involvement ===

I am most active in foundational and server related packages, including
qemu, lxc, libvirt, libcap, cgmanager, netcf, etc - or, more generally,
things relating to virtualization, containers, and security
features.

Over the last few years, I've had a goal+vision of dead-simple-to-use,
secure, unprivileged containers.  Much of my time therefore has gone
to development of this new functionality.  Now that these are due to
be delivered in 14.04, I'm hoping to be able to cast a wider net.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The heaviest packaging work I've done has been the migration from
qemu-kvm+qemu-linaro to a mostly-in-sync-with-debian qemu.  I'm one of
the Ubuntu and upstream maintainers for lxc, having in my previous life
worked on namespaces in the kernel.  I introduced apparmor and seccomp
support as well as the new C API in lxc.  I also helped to shepherd the
shadow changes needed to support unprivileged user namespace use into
upstream, debian and Ubuntu, which are instrumental in unprivileged lxc
use.  I was the author and uploader of cgmanager (motivated by lxc) 
and it's dumber older brother cgroup-lite (motivated by libvirt).

=== Areas of work ===

Recently I've worked a great deal with stgraber on lxc, upstream
and in Ubuntu.  I've written the cgroup manager upstream and Ubuntu
package, and before that wrote the cgroup-lite package and worked
a bit with libcgroup.  I maintain the netcf package in Debian, where I work with
ahs3 as a sponsor, and Ubuntu.  I work on libvirt in Ubuntu mainly
with zulcss.  Early on I worked on qemu-kvm with kirkland.  I guess
I now mainly consult the debian-qemu team on those matters.  As I'm
listed as the kernel capabilities maintainer, I try to keep an eye
on libcap2.  I'm supposed to be a co-maintainer with slangasek on
edk2, and hope I can mend my ways to finally make good on that (as
I've not given it it's due time).

A fuller list of packages I have been involved with is in launchpad:
https://launchpad.net/~serge-hallyn/+uploaded-packages

=== Things I could do better ===

I've focused mainly on server related packages.  In order to become
more useful in general patch piloting and plusone maintenance
activities, I should become more familiar with desktop related
packages.  I intend to do a second plusone stint, hopefully in
April, to help make this happen.

== Plans for the future ==

I intend to become more heavily involved in Debian packaging,
and apply for DM.  While I want to make sure that I can be
helpful with desktop related packages, my focus will continue
to be on foundational and server+cloud related packaging.

=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

The integration of UDD was left in an unfortunate state.  It would be
awesome if it were possible to use a bzr tag to say "build new package
from bzr source now," and (heck) lock packages so they can only be
uploaded via bzr (or only via dut)  Somewhat frequent auto-import failures make
the situation much worse, so we effectively have to check two sources
(rmadison/pull-lp-source and bzr) to make sure we don't lose information.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Andres Rodriguez (roaksoax) ===
I've worked with Serge in numerous occasions, sponsoring uploads of some of this packages throughout various releases. Serge, has always shown high quality in his packages, but not only that, he was always open to suggestions and willing to make fixes or improvements as recommended. I support his application.

=== Dave Walker (Daviey) ===
I have reviewed and sponsored a number of Serge's uploads for over 3 years, and they have always been of high quality.  Serge's level of work has always been to a good standard.  Where there have been areas of improvement, Serge has responded promptly to rectifying.  Serge has learned from mistakes, and never had the same issue happen again.He understands the ecosystem, and appreciates things he should not do.  The +1maint stints have helped broaden his knowledge and interest outside the Server package set.  He is good to work with, and takes a good level of ownership of his uploads.  He is committed and I thoroughly recommend his application. ''I have been urging him to apply for this, for the last year.''

=== James Page (james-page) ===
I've reviewed and sponsored Serge's work occasionally over the last few years; IMO he works to a high standard. I've also been impressed with his work in libvirt, qemu and lxc packaging (and upstream for that last one), all critical packages for Ubuntu server!  I would trust him with core-dev upload rights so +1 on his application for core-dev.

=== Scott Moser (smoser) ===
I've sponsored some of Serge's work over the past few years, and have been happy with his work.  He has very successfully maintained qemu, which is non-trivial and of utmost importance to Ubuntu server.

Serge is deliberate and meticulous in his maintenance of Ubuntu packages, the qualities most important in my opinion.  Additionally, he is *extremely* responsive to bug reports.

I have zero hesitation in recommending core dev privileges for Serge.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
