{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[Neehilo]]</nowiki>
* Make: ASUSTek Computer Inc.
* Brand: ASUS
* Model: UL30A

=== Current Issues ===
Webcam image flipped upside down.

In Ubuntu 9.10, default setup :
* Gnome power manager interferes with manual setting of screen backlight (see Notes at end of page).
* Touchpad may not be disabled with Fn+F9 (see Notes at end of page).

=== System Info ===
system-manufacturer: ASUSTeK Computer Inc.

system-product-name: UL30A

system-version: 1.0

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-3 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| 
| Ubuntu 9.10
| 
|-
| Screen
| GOOD
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| YES
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| YES
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| YES
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| YES
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| YES
| 
|-
| Suspend
| YES
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| YES
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| YES
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| YES
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| YES
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| YES
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| YES
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| YES
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| YES
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| YES
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| YES
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| YES, better with backports modules
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| YES
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Disable touchpad w/ Hotkey
| With Fix (see notes below)
| Bug#418282
|-
| Touchpad - Disable tap click
| NO
| Bug#418282
|-
| External mouse - USB
| YES
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Card reader(s)
| YES
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
'''Ubuntu 9.10 - Gnome power manager and screen backlight'''

Gnome power manager interferes with manual setting of screen backlight : it works for some seconds, and after some idle or mouse move, the screen backlight is restored to the default level (AC or battery).

Suggestion for fixing : bash script that disables gnome-power-manager screen brightness handler, and use xbacklight to modify screen backlight.

The script backups all modified files, installs xbacklight if needed, and replaces the default ACPI brightness handling with xbacklight calls. Creates a "lcd" script in "bin" subdirectory of user's home. That "lcd" script should be run on startup to initialize default brightness level.

Script :
<pre>

echo "Neehilo's Asus UL30A Screen Brightness Fix"

if [ ! -f /usr/bin/xbacklight ]; then
 sudo apt-get install xbacklight
fi

if [ ! -f /etc/acpi/asus-brn-down.sh.dist ]; then
 sudo cp -a /etc/acpi/asus-brn-down.sh /etc/acpi/asus-brn-down.sh.dist
fi

if [ ! -f /etc/acpi/asus-brn-up.sh.dist ]; then
 sudo cp -a /etc/acpi/asus-brn-up.sh /etc/acpi/asus-brn-up.sh.dist
fi

sudo bash -c "
cat >/etc/acpi/asus-brn-down.sh <<EOT
xbacklight -dec 10
EOT"
sudo chmod +x /etc/acpi/asus-brn-down.sh

sudo bash -c "
cat >/etc/acpi/asus-brn-up.sh <<EOT
xbacklight -inc 10
EOT"
sudo chmod +x /etc/acpi/asus-brn-up.sh

gconftool-2 --set /apps/gnome-power-manager/backlight/enable --type bool 0

if [ ! -f ~/bin/lcd ]; then
   if [ ! -d ~/bin ]; then
      mkdir ~/bin
   fi

   cat >~/bin/lcd <<'EOT'
LCD_DEFAULT=15
LCD_STEP=10
case $1 in
  default) xbacklight -set $LCD_DEFAULT;;
  up)      xbacklight -inc $LCD_STEP;;
  down)    xbacklight -dec $LCD_STEP;;
** )       xbacklight -set $LCD_DEFAULT;;
esac
EOT
   chmod +x ~/bin/lcd
fi

echo "Done. Please add ~/bin/lcd to startup programs."
</pre>

As suggested by Thomas, if Gnome power manager reactivates, you may disable it manually :
* launch gconf-editor
* go to "/apps/gnome-power-manager/backlight", and uncheck "enable"

The following command line should have the same effect :
<pre>
gconftool-2 --set /apps/gnome-power-manager/backlight/enable --type bool 0
</pre>

'''Ubuntu 9.10 - Disable touchpad with Fn+F9'''

With default Ubuntu setup, touchpad may not be disabled with Fn+F9.

As suggested by Jacob (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/418282/comments/20|launchpad]]</nowiki>), it can be fixed as follows :

* modify /etc/acpi/events/asus-touchpad, change line "event=hotkey (ATKD|HOTK) 0000006a" with "event=hotkey (ATKD|HOTK) 0000006'''b'''"
* backup /etc/acpi/asus-touchpad.sh,
* modify /etc/acpi/asus-touchpad.sh content with Jacob's script :
<pre>
[ -f /usr/share/acpi-support/state-funcs ] || exit 0

. /usr/share/acpi-support/power-funcs

getXconsole

XINPUT="ImPS/2 Logitech Wheel Mouse"

tpstate=`xinput list-props "$XINPUT" | grep "Device Enabled" | cut -d: -f2`

test -z $tpstate && exit 1

if [ $tpstate -eq 0 ]; then
   xinput set-int-prop "$XINPUT" "Device Enabled" 8 1
else
   xinput set-int-prop "$XINPUT" "Device Enabled" 8 0
fi
</pre>

''' Lucid Lynx - ACPI errors and problems with FN+x key combinations (backlight, touchpad disable)'''

Issues with backlight dimming (brightness), Various ACPI error messages like ACPI Error (psparse-0537): Method parse/execution failed [\_SB_.PCI0.VGA_.GCBL] (Node ffff88007bb2f420), AE_AML_PACKAGE_LIMIT" and "ACPI Exception: AE_AML_PACKAGE_LIMIT, Index (000000010) is beyond end of object"  , etc...

Solution: in /etc/default/grub edit the line
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX and add at least "acpi_backlight=vendor acpi_osi=linux"

----
CategoryLaptop
