{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe SergioMeneses/sandbox/wiki_editing here.

Hi wiki / docs team. I've asked sergio to make some entries here. As it was <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Philbull | Phil]]</nowiki> who got me approved and there is no current mentoring system in place, I've asked sergio to note major edits. You may need to look back through the history as we 'tweak' things, but IMHO, he fully understands the rules of taking backups before making major brain surgery on a wiki area. His work on other wiki pages is faultless and he fully understands making a backup, as was one of the things I was asked when joining the editors group. As such, I ask that you look through his work and accept him to the wiki-editors group. <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>

{*} https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Developers/PrePostReleaseTODO

{*} https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall/Release+1

{*} https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu/Release+1

{*} https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO/Release+1

{*} https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Release%2B1

{*} https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing/Release+1

=== 14.04 reviews ===

{*} https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs+1

=== Update ===

All of the pages prepared have gone 'live' for 13.10. As I was up to my eye-balls in testing, having these pages all prepared and ready to be moved has been a god-send to me. His knowledge, careful and diligent work has been fantastic. The 'Live' pages just needed renaming to /13.04 and Release+1 pages just needed renaming to the parent pages. I had discussed this rather major work with Sergio so that he understood the we have JIC (Just-In-Case) backup; indeed it was he who suggested we use the 'old' release name to keep an archive so that information is never totally deleted; but would be available for people who choose to use 'older' systems. Having seen his work this last cycle, I ask that you look upon his application favourably for to be a member of https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc-wiki-admins 

<nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki>
