{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

---------------------------------------------------
'''ESPAÑOL'''
Hola!
Vivo en Valdivia, Chile  y soy usuario de Ubuntu desde diciembre del 2005.
Aporto al software libre enviando bugs, traducciones y desarrollando algunos programas científicos.

Me dedico a la investigación y docencia en la Universidad Austral de Chile (Valdivia) y en la Facultad de Odontología de la Universidad de Valparaíso (Valparaiso).
Aquí puedes ver algunas de mis publicaciones http://tinyurl.com/uvnsw
Colaboro activamente en el foro de Ubuntu Chile en http://foros.ubuntu-cl.org

---------------------------------------------------
'''ENGLISH'''
Hi from the land of the best wines of the world!

I enjoy participate in the free software community and here you can find some of my acitivities related. I usually send bugs or translations and also participate in the development of some scientific packages. 

I'm Associate Professor at the Dental School of the Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile and Research Lecturer at University of Valparaiso.

I'm an Ubuntu user since december 2005 . Some of my research is focused to the use of internet in dental students and IT. Here you can see some of my papers http://tinyurl.com/uvnsw

Recently, with several friends, we published a paper about Information technologies in Dental Education, available at http://dev.cl/ynf

---------------------------------------------------

'''Links'''

Launchpad @ https://launchpad.net/~sergiouribe

tumblr @  http://sergiouribe.com

blog @  http://my.opera.com/suribe

flickr @ http://flickr.com/suribe

all the rest @ http://www.radiologia.cl/suribe
