{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Test results for Compal HL90 laptop ==

Also known as BTO 15C27a a.k.a. Alternate 15C27a

Installed 64 bit Hardy Heron (8.04) version. This failed to start X in correct screenresolution (1640x1024). Also WiFi not working.

Installed 32 bit Intrepid Ibex (8.10) version. This has new Xorg version and also 8.27 kernel to support the Intel WiFi chip. Test report is for this installment (out of the box, no tweaks).

== Test report: ==
* X starts correctly at correct resolution<<BR>>
* glxinfo reports "GLX" is missing on display ":0.0"<<BR>>
* Wired network works<<BR>>
* Wireless is working<<BR>>
* Trackpad works<<BR>>
* Did not check on modem<<BR>>
* Soundcard works<<BR>>
* Volume hotkeys work<<BR>>
* Brightness keys work<<BR>>
* Did not check on video display hotkey<<BR>>
* Wireless button does not work<<BR>>
* This model has no application buttons so did not try if they work<<BR>>
* Did not try Bluetooth<<BR>>
* Infrared port is not available<<BR>>
* Did not use a docking station<<BR>>
* Did not use the cardbus<<BR>>
* Did not use Firewire<<BR>>
* USB ports work<<BR>>
* Machine goes to sleep or hibernation correctly but does not wake up at all. After Sleep or Hibernation you need to reboot the machine and all information running is lost.<<BR>>
* CPU frequency scaling is supported.<<BR>>

== Other remarks: ==
* NVidia display driver does not seem to support 3D.<<BR>>
* Ubuntu runs slower as Windows Vista except for starting up<<BR>>
