{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

     
* Contact: MartinBergner, <nowiki>[[Luftholen]]</nowiki>, ClaasTeichmann
* Make: Samsung
* Brand: X20
* Model: 1730 V
* Website: http://notebook.samsung.de/article.asp?artid=BB17B919-35B8-45BF-8234-2A3E444F13A6

=== Current Issues ===

The correct resolution is 1400x1050, this does not work out of the box. With Dapper Live CD, you get a 1024x768 screen, if you install with espresso, this is also what you get in the installed system, so this is better. I have not tested the normal install cd, with dapper flight 3/4 you got a black screen, but since it works with the live cd, I think that should work, too.

This is, however, fixable: Install the 915resolution package, reboot, and everything should work: The resolution is correct and you see the graphical login manager.

Actually, some of the FN keys (FN + F2,F7,F8,F9,F10) should display a pictogram in the upper left corner. This is a small image that shows the current state of, for example, the battery or if the S/PDIF is on or off. If you don't start the X server and just boot in the console mode (best without usplash), you can see the icons in the top left corner correctly. With the X server, however, you only see some pixel garbage in the upper left corner. However, this is the only drawback: You don't see this status message but the effect is triggered anyhow, e.g. the optical S/PDIF is disabled resp. enabled, the same applies to the touchpad.

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| yes
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Egdy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| no
| Untested
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-driver-i810/+bug/37596|#37596]]</nowiki>
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| yes (<nowiki>[[#config|xorg.conf]]</nowiki> below)
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| yes (see Notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| no
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested (see Notes for Breezy)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| yes (at least read SD cards)
| Untested (should! work)
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| + Esc
| Suspend
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Battery status
| 
| no
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| External Monitor
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Speakers off/on
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| SPDIF out
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 3D-Sound
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| Touchpad off
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| Etiquette (no noise)
| 
| yes (afaict)
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| NumBlock
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| ScrollLock
| 
| no
| Untested
| 
|-
| + upArrow
| Brightness up
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + downArrow
| Brightness down
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + leftArrow
| Volume up
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + rightArrow
| Volume down
| 
| yes
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
* External monitor works without problems. Both ports, the VGA and the DVI, work after switching manually to "external screen". Automatic switching to external screen on booting doesn't work. Has to be done manually by pressing FN+F4 on the laptop's keyboard. No possibility to switch the screen with an external keyboard.
* Here comes the fun part: You can use xinerama with this Laptop and there is no drawback, it just works! Here is a ''' <nowiki>[[attachment:xorg.conf]]</nowiki> ''' for this laptop which works (read it first and adjust it according to your setup/monitor).

 You must either change "Default Layout" to something (or delete this section) and "Dualhead" to "Default Layout" or alternatively tell GDM that it should by default use "Dualhead" - You'll find out in Google, I don't recall how to do that.
* The internal modem works fine if you install it according to this <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/SmartLink|HowTo]]</nowiki> (german):
** Basically you install '''sl-modem-daemon''' and '''sl-modem-source''' from ''multiverse''.
** Then you adapt the country-code:
  <pre>
sudo dpkg-reconfigure sl-modem-daemon -plow
</pre>
** Change the dial-string in kppp (if you use this) to ''ATX0DT''
** To be able to connect as normal user, insert the following line in <code>/etc/ppp/peers/kppp-options</code>:
  <pre>
noauth
</pre>
* If you get the following error or a similar one while booting the system (it drops to a shell):
 <pre>
mount: Mounting /dev/hda1 on /root failed: No such device
</pre>
 Just add the following line in your <code>/etc/mkinitramfs/modules</code>:
 <pre>
piix
</pre>
 Then it should work again!

----
CategoryLaptop
