{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[KristopherIves]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Gateway
* Make : MX
* Model: 6027
* Website: http://support.gateway.com/s/Mobile/Gateway/6000Series/5377nv.shtml

=== Current Issues ===
Edgy untested

=== System Info ===
<pre>
system-manufacturer:Gateway
system-product-name:MX6027
system-kernel: 2.6.15-26-386
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Tested (LiveCD)
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes (see notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes (see notes)
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| S1
| ?
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| S2
| ?
| 
| No
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

From the LiveCD this notebook works very well, as well as the other install CDs. The hotkeys for changing screen brightness and sound volume work but display a small visual artifact in the top-right (where the HUD appears) and will then move around with the mouse cursor until the mouse cursor is repainted. Hibernation is fully supported and works great, and also works with Windows XP for switching fast.

The wireless adapter is a broadcom 43xx. It does not work "out of the box" becaus the firmware needs to be ripped. To do that you must get bcm43xx-fwcutter and rip the firmware from a driver (or use exiting ripped firmware). You can use the working ethernet connection to do this or download the .deb files onto a flash drive. A great guide for doing this is available <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185174|in this thread]]</nowiki>.

The native resolution of 1280x800 is not accessable "out of the box." The fix is very simple and only requires that you obtain the <nowiki>[[http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/|915resolution]]</nowiki> package (despite it's name it works on the 800 series of adapters, of which the MX6027 uses the i815). To enable the 1280x800 resolution you can do the following:

<pre>
sudo -s
apt-get install 915resolution
915resolution 3c 1280 800
</pre>

In the above we get the 915resolution package and run it to patch the video BIOS mode 3c (which is a resolution that isn't ever used because it's too large for the display) to 1280x800. This should create an entry in the initd that will run before the xserver is started. The 1280x800 resolution will automatically be selected at boot time.

You should read the 915resolution README file that explains setting the XRES and YRES environment variables.

----
CategoryLaptop
