{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: MartinBackhaus
* Make: Fujitsu-Siemens
* Brand: Amilo
* Model: Pa 1510
* Website: http://www.fujitsu-siemens.com/home/products/notebooks/amilo_pa_1510.html

=== Current Issues ===

Overall, ubuntu gutsy 7.10 works very good! LAN, WLAN, sound, USB-Devices (mouse, flash-memory stick, external HDD, image scanner, USB Audio device, digital camera) were directly detected and configured ("out of the box"), without any problems.
With the fglrx driver for the ATI Xpress 1100 graphics card and the aticonfig tool I could enable the external monitor in desktop extend mode.

The cardreader (O2 Micro, Inc. controller) only works with SD cards, right now.

'''Untested''': Firewire, SPDIF sound output, Modem, Express Card slot 34mm/54mm

=== System Info ===

* system-manufacturer: FUJITSU SIEMENS
* system-product-name: AMILO Pa 1510
* system-version: Not Applicable
* Kernel-Version: 2.6.22-14

* CPU: AMD Turion64 X2 TL-50, 1600 MHz (dual-core mobile)
* VGA: ATI Radeon Xpress 1100
* RAM: 2048 MB
* HDD: 120 GB

lspci output:
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 Host Bridge (rev 10)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:04.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:12.0 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc 4379 Serial ATA Controller (rev 80)
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller (rev 80)
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 83)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc Standard Dual Channel PCI IDE Controller (rev 80)
00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SB450 HDA Audio (rev 01)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge (rev 80)
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge (rev 80)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]
05:03.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications, Inc. AR2413 802.11bg NIC (rev 01)
05:04.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): O2 Micro, Inc. Firewire (IEEE 1394) (rev 02)
05:04.2 Generic system peripheral [0805]: O2 Micro, Inc. Integrated MMC/SD Controller (rev 01)
05:04.3 Mass storage controller: O2 Micro, Inc. Integrated MS/xD Controller (rev 01)
05:05.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| in Gutsy 7.10
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| only once (blank screen)
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Express Card NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Express cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| No/Unsure
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?
| in Gutsy 7.10?
|-
| + F1
| Sleep
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Mute
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| Toggle external monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| Volume +
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Volume -
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Backlight +
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Backlight -
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
| Gutsy 7.10
|-
| "i"
| Open Web-Browser
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Fan
| silent mode
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Shutdown
| Shutdown Menu opens
| 
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
