{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''Created''': SergioZanchetta

=== Summary ===

* This spec is about adding a new laptop testing section integrated in the QA Tracker website.

=== Rationale ===

* The Laptop Testing is a community driven project started during Lucid development (from Alpha 3)
* Now testing work uses specific testcases that verifies laptop devices/component functionality.
* Results are collected and organized using Wiki pages and this lead to a lot of manual actions and limitations.

=== Use Cases ===

* Richard want to test his laptop. By now he follows a testcase and report the results of his tests filling some tables in wiki pages. He has to put in manually a lot of info like
## Testcase code
## Result of the test properly formatted with colors and a link to any bug found, paying attention to put it in the right milestone column.
## His name with a link to the launchpad account, the milestone tested and a link to the his laptop wiki page.
* With the new Laptop Tracker he would just need to register to the QA Tracker once, test any milestone he wants filling just the Comment field and the bug numbers.

=== Design ===

The website interface could be the same used by now for the other QA testing project (ISO, Desktop, Multitouch etc.), reserving laptop.qa.ubuntu.com as URL for the site.

=== Implementation ===
* Create a task, on the first page, for each piece of laptop hardware, like 
## System
## Input/output
## Networking
## Audio
## Video
## USB
## Firewire

* For each subsection provide relative <nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Plans/LaptopTesting|testcases]]</nowiki> with a link to the current ISO build and the instruction to perform the test that point to the testcase itself.
* As for other testing project, each bug reported is automatically linked to launchpad and it would be really easy to adapt a tag system.
* Laptop info (make model etc.) can be put in the '''Commen''' field already present in the report, with some small improvement, like make it mandatory, increase its size to contain useful text info like '''lspci''' output. Optionally other text fields can be added to fit laptop testing needs. 

==== UI Changes ====

* Very little, the Laptop Tracker will have the same structure of the others. 

==== Code Changes ====

* As for the UI, the code would be the same and shouldn't change a lot, some adjustments are probably needed.

----
