{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== UBUNTU 5.10 Desktop ====
HANGS during install/reboot.

==== UBUNTU 6.06 Desktop ====
WORKS brilliantly.

==== UBUNTU 8.10 Desktop ====
WORKS brilliantly.

==== UBUNTU 8.10 Desktop ====
WORKS but sound keep crashing.

==== Hardware Compatibility List ====

Toshiba Satellite L20 268

Intel Celeron 1.4

1024M RAM

40G harddisk

CD/DVD/RW drive

Atheros Wi-fi on-board chipset

====== lspci from 8.10 ======
<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc Device 5a31 (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller (rev 80)
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 82)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 IDE Controller (rev 80)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge (rev 80)
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge (rev 80)
00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 80)
00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc SB400 AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200M]
09:01.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCI1510 PC card Cardbus Controller
09:02.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
09:04.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR2413 802.11bg NIC (rev 01)
</pre>
====== lspci from 6.06 ======
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 0000:00:00.0
| Host bridge:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| : Unknown device 5a31 (rev 01)
|-
| 0000:00:01.0
| PCI bridge:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| : Unknown device 5a3f
|-
| 0000:00:13.0
| USB Controller:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:13.1
| USB Controller:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:13.2
| USB Controller:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:14.0
| SMBus:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 81)
|-
| 0000:00:14.1
| VIDE interface:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| Standard Dual Channel PCI IDE Controller ATI (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:14.3
| ISA bridge:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:14.4
| PCI bridge:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:14.5
| Multimedia audio controller:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:00:14.6
| Modem:
| ATI Technologies Inc ATI
| SB400 - AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
|-
| 0000:01:05.0
| VGA compatible controller:
| ATI Technologies Inc
| : Unknown device 5a62
|-
| 0000:09:01.0
| CardBus bridge:
| Texas Instruments
| PCI1510 PC card Cardbus Controller
|-
| 0000:09:02.0
| Ethernet controller:
| Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
| RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
|-
| 0000:09:04.0
| Ethernet controller:
| Atheros Communications, Inc.
| : Unknown device 001a (rev 01)
|}

ALL the above are autodetected and seem to work fine !
