{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[Elantrix]]</nowiki>
* Make: Toshiba
* Brand: Satellite
* Model: PSPA3A-05S00P
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.isd.toshiba.com.au|Toshiba Australia]]</nowiki>

=== Introduction ===

This is a hardware reference/Ubuntu Linux to help laptop test team to test and report problems, developers to fix or build software specifically for this make and  model, and general users to understand the technical specs of their laptop, problems they might be faced with when installing Ubuntu and the current solutions they can apply for the Toshiba Satellite P100 PSPA3A-02V00P notebook.

The Satellite P100 series is Toshiba's desktop replacement notebook series as of Q2-Q4 2006. It is based on the Intel Centrino (codename Napa) platform which consists of an Intel Centrino Core Duo (codename Yonah) CPU, a Intel mobile 945 express series chipset (82945 northbridge and ICH7 southbridge) and a Intel PRO Wireless 3945ABG Wi-Fi adapter. The notebook also features an nVidia Geforce Go 7300 graphics adapter.

This laptop is geared towards the business users and home users who require a mobile media and gaming system, their are some common drawbacks to the design of the system, it's heavy weighing at 3.3KG, Battery doesnt last long even at light use (Around 2 hours) and a few features such as the bright blue lights can be distracting especially at night as they cant be turned off.

Externally the laptop features a reasonably sleek casing (different countries appear to have different coloured lids for otherwise identical models), 17" widescreen display (with glossy coating), and harman/kardon speakers. It also features blue LEDs under the speakers. External connectivity includes 4x USB, 1x 4-pin firewire, 1x LAN, 1x modem, 1x DVI, 1x VGA, 1x TV-out, 1x PCMCIA, 1x ExpressCard, 1x multi-format media card slot, 1x line-in jack, 1x microphone jack and 1x headphone (with combined S/PDIF on certain models) jack.

As can be expected from a high performance desktop replacement notebook battery life is not extensive. In practice one can expect approximately 2 hours of light usage (under both Linux and Windows XP) from a fully charged 6000mAh battery. These notebooks are also reasonably heavy (3.3+ kg) and large (394 x 275 x 34.9mm/41.9mm).

The laptop was only intended and supported to run on Microsoft Windows XP and Microsoft Windows Vista, as a result, linux support is far from 100% and if you are looking for an out-of-the-box replacement for MS Windows, you're out of luck unless you purchase a new laptop with better linux support. Toshiba P100 and a lot of other laptops suffer from poorly implemented ACPI and various other parts as linux testing was never conducted, this guide should help to smooth out the problems and hopefully allow the Toshiba p100 PSPA3A-02V00P and hopefully the rest of the series to work 100% with Ubuntu.

Official Linux support from Toshiba is non-existant in at least Australia, however the components of the notebook are generally well supported by the software included in modern Linux distributions. The Express Media Player software provided with the laptop utilises a 2.4 series Linux kernel and numerous other GPL software packages, though the extent of customization of this software is not yet known. Worldwide unofficial support is provided via the Toshiba Digital Media Engineering "Linux Information for TOSHIBA PC" website <nowiki>[[http://linux.toshiba-dme.co.jp/linux/index.htm]]</nowiki>.

=== Status of this document ===

This document is a work in progress as of January 2008. It is mostly being used to document a specific installation and the issues surrounding that installation. Plenty of other people around the net seem to be trying to use Linux with this particular laptop, so feel free to add your two cents.

=== To Do ===
* Try to get all hardware working and tested
* Revise xorg.conf, hotkeys-setup and any other relevant files to include
* Flesh out Installation
* Flesh out Further Configuration
* Add relevant links/resources 

=== Outstanding Issues ===
This is the list of issues with no current solution or work around, if you have a solution, please remove it from the list and add it to the appropriate section.
* Something currently unknown triggers the sound and wireless to stop working, requiring a restart.
* LCD screen flashes occasionally
* A few function keys don't work at all, including the touchpad quick assistance
* Blue lights under speakers cannot be disabled

Things not yet tested:
* 56K Modem
* Firewire
* PCMCIA (Requires more testing, but may not work correctly)

=== System Info ===

* bios-version: V4.20
* system-manufacturer: TOSHIBA
* system-product-name: Satellite P100
* system-product-version:PSPA3A-02V00P

=== Hardware details ===
==== Hardware Specifications ====
* Toshiba Satellite P100
* Processor - Intel Centrino Core Duo T2300 @ 1.55GHz (667MHz)
* Video - nVidia Geforce Go 7300 with 256MB video memory (128MB discrete video memory and up to 128MB shared system memory using TurboCache Technology)
* Display - 17.0" TruBrite Widescreen XGA (CSV) Active Matrix 
* Resolution - 1440x900
* Memory - 512MB DDR2 (Tested with 1024MB)
* Hard Drive - 100GB (5400rpm) 2.5" SATA 
* Disk Controller - Intel ICH7
* LAN (Wired Network) - Intel PRO/1000
* WLAN (Wireless Network) - Intel PRO Wireless 3945ABG
* Audio - Intel HDA via Conexant codec
* DVD-ROM: DVD SuperMulti Double⁄Dual Layer Drive 
** Read: CD-ROM 24x, DVD-ROM 8x
** Write: CD-R 24x, CD-RW 4x, HS CD-RW 10x, DVD-R 8x, DVD-R DL 2x, DVD-RW 4x, DVD+R 8x, DVD+R DL 2.4x, DVD+RW 4x, DVD-RAM 5x
* TV-Out – S-Video 
* Modem - International V.92 data modem + fax 
* Speakers - harman⁄kardon speakers
* Card Reader –5-in-1 card reader Adapter 
* USB Port - 4 x Hi-Speed USB 2.0 ports 
* PC Card Slot - One PC Card slot supports one Type II PC Card IEEE1394
* Infra-red Port – CIR
* Blue Tooth - Toshiba Bluetooth V2.0 
* Provided Software – Microsoft Windows Media Center Edition 2005, Toshiba Utilities, Microsoft OneNote 2003, Record Now! Basic for TOSHIBA, DLA for Toshiba, Toshiba Speech System, Toshiba Touch and launch, ConfigFree, Intervideo WinDVD, WinDVD Creator 2 Platinum, Norton Antivirus (inc 90 day subscription), Express Media Player (CD + DVD) (Provided on separate Partition) 
* Battery - Up to 2 hours 
* Weight - Approximately 3.3kg (may vary with spec) 
* Warranty – 1 year international parts and labour warranty. Domestic warranty includes onsite courier pickup and return service

==== Linux Support ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in LTS (6.06)
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Heron (current development)
|-
| Installation works?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
|-
| Note
| 
| 
| LTS and Gutsy has no sound out of the box; Heron does (not tested by myself and needs confirmation)
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in LTS (6.06)
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Heron (current development)
|-
| Screen
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Yes, with `nvidia-glx-new` driver
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| No (On 19" Ext. LCD)
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| No (On 19" Ext. LCD)
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| No (On 19" Ext. LCD)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Untested
| No (Possible Fix)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Untested
| No (Patching above may result in quiet sound?)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| No (Bad quality and Gnome sound configuration doesnt detect it)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| No (On 19" LCD)
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in LTS (6.06)
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Heron (current development)
|-
| + Space
| Unknown
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| Mute
| 0x71 (Key press) 0xf1 (Key release)
| Untested
| Yes?
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| Lock
| 0x71 (Key press) 0xfd (Key release)
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| Unknown
| 
| Doesnt register
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| Suspend
| 0x00 0x81 0x8e (Key press) 0x80 0x91 0x8e (Key release)
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| Unknown
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| LCD / Ext. Monitor
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| Dimmer
| 0x00 0x81 0xe0 0x80 0x81 0xe1
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightener
| 
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| Unknown
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| Enable / Disable touchpad
| Doesnt Register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 1
| Unknown
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + 2
| Unknown
| Doesnt Register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| Home
| 0x66 (Key press) 0xeb (Key release)
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| End
| 0x6b (Key press) 0xeb (Key release)
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Space bar
| Unknown
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-3> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in LTS (6.06)
| in Gutsy (7.10)
| in Heron (current development)
|-
| ''KEY''
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA (Top right on the touchpad)
| Touchpad Quick assist (TQA)
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA + Mail Button
| Mail
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA + WLAN radar
| Wireless Radar
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA + Printer
| Printer
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA + Shortcut 1
| User Shortcut 1
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA + Shortcut 2
| User Shortcut 2
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| TQA + Shortcut 3
| User Shortcut 3
| Doesnt register
| Untested
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Browser button (Top silver bar (TSB))
| Browser Shortcut
| 0x00 0x81 0xac
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Media player button (TSB)
| Media player
| 0x00 0x81 0xe2 (Key press) 0x80 0x81 0xe2
| Untested
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Play/Pause button (TSB)
| Media player Play/Pause
| 0x00 0x81 0xa4 (Key press) 0x80 0x81 0xa4 (Key release)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Stop button (TSB)
| Media player Stop
| 0x00 0x81 0xa6 (Key press) 0x80 0x81 0xa6 (Key release)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Back button (TSB)
| Media player Back
| 0x00 0x81 0xa5 (Key press) 0x80 0x81 0xa5 (Key release)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Forward button (TSB)
| Media player Forward
| 0x00 0x81 0x<TBA> (Key press) 0x80 0x81 0x<TBA> (Key release)
| Untested
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Preparations ====
Seems that Toshiba P100 laptops uses a modified (and possible erroneous) ACPI implementation in its BIOS, automatic temperature cooling of CPU and GPU is only possible under Microsoft Windows XP and Vista (Unsure on older releases). Under Linux, the fans fo not turn on at all. To correct this problem, the BIOS requires to be updated to version 4.20 (As of 01-2008), the BIOS update is available from your regional Toshiba website

==== Patch existing problems ====
Harddrive - High frequency of load/unload cycles

Here is how I permanently fixed it:
 1) make a file named "99-hdd-spin-fix.sh" with the following 2 lines:
SATA use:
echo -e #!/bin/sh\nhdparm -B 255 /dev/sda >> ~/99-hdd-spin-fix.sh

PATA use:
echo -e #!/bin/sh\nhdparm -B 255 /dev/hda >> ~/99-hdd-spin-fix.sh

2) copy this file to 3 locations /etc/acpi/suspend.d/ /etc/acpi/resume.d/ /etc/acpi/start.d/ by:
sudo cp ~/99-hdd-spin-fix.sh /etc/acpi/suspend.d/; sudo cp ~/99-hdd-spin-fix.sh /etc/acpi/resume.d/; sudo cp ~/99-hdd-spin-fix.sh /etc/acpi/start.d/;

Voila! After that the HDD never spins down on power (looks like it actually spins down on battery at modest rate).

(from <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/59695/comments/14|Bug #59695 Comment 14]]</nowiki>)

==== Notes ====
Will update this machine a lot more later.
----
[LaptopTestingTeam/Toshiba]
