{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Sergio Schvezov, apply for MOTU'''

=== About Me ===

==== TL;DR ====
I'm a generation X or Y person depending on when the cutoff date is. For someone who lived in Argentina and in a non early network connected town, I consider myself an early adopter starting with Slackware from a huge set of floppies from a magazzine called <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_computer_magazines_in_Spain#Defunct|Solo Programadores]]</nowiki> only to discover my family PC was not supported as it had a Triden 9440 card, given the family PC status, I abandoned it until a couple years later where I discovered Red Hat 5.2 and later on Debian (IIRC woody) which was the distribution I stuck with the longest after Ubuntu in the later years.

After getting my first broadband connection I turned into what some people call a *distro hopper* (they didn't last more than a month, except for Gentoo and LFS which took a month to install); you could also include the *BDSs and Solaris/OpenSolaris in those distros.

With regards to work; I've been hired in the past by Motorola where I used Solaris extensively to QA what became <nowiki>[[http://www.motorolasolutions.com/US-EN/Business+Product+and+Services/Enterprise+Voice|TEAM]]</nowiki> where I worked mostly on the installations, test environments and the actual protocols (SIP, PTT, Cellular/GSM).

I then moved on to work at Intel; where I started out in IT and lab management and spread Ubuntu all over the place and had the first Linux installation in the commercial datacenter. I then moved on to work for <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appup|Intel's AppUp]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MeeGo|MeeGo]]</nowiki>, which looked pretty much like Ubuntu Software Center now and had apps promoted though it's panels (much like Ubuntu's Lens).

==== Actual ME ====

Come 2012, I moved on to work for Canonical; I love the work here, the openness and community around Ubuntu. My dedication was initially on Ubuntu for Android but shortly after became part of the team that started building the phablet, now called Ubuntu Touch and hopefully soon, just Ubuntu :-) That team today is the Ubuntu Phone Foundtations team.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| sergiusens
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sergiusens|~sergiusens]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| sergiusens [at] gmail.com
|-
| Website
| http://blog.sergiusens.org
|}

=== Contributions ===

Mostly worked around what adds up to Ubuntu Touch:

* ... first ports for maguro, then also mako and manta (<nowiki>[[http://phablet.ubuntu.com/gitweb|repo]]</nowiki>)
* ... wrote and maintain <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/phablet-tools|phablet-tools]]</nowiki>.
* ... heavily contributed to the Ubuntu Touch porting guide.
* ... actively maintained the Jenkins servers (s-jenkins) where we used to build Ubuntu Touch completely from.
* ... initially packaged many of the Ubuntu Touch specific components, mostly the ones listed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-touch-preview|here]]</nowiki>.
* ... some adaptations/porting for autopilot on devices.
* ... nuntium, for MMS support on the phone, integrating with ofono and telepathy-ofono.
* ... ciborium, the phone "SD Card" application.
* ... packaged and worked on the build and sync for all preinstalled click applications.
* ... worked on the CI for most of the packages that were specific to Ubuntu Touch. We luckily have a CI team for that now :-)
* ... non ci (daily release) packaging contributions:
** ... Debian packages sponsoree http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=sergio.schvezov@canonical.com
** ... Ubuntu packages sponsoree http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Sergio+Schvezov&sponsoree_search=name

And now snappy as well:

* ... the snappy webdm.
* ... ubuntu-device-flash support
* ... overall here and there small snippets in the snappy cli, init and others.

You can often find me on #ubuntu-touch, #ubuntu-ci-eng and #ubuntu-devel on freenode.

My relevant talks at events (outside of [v]UDS) are:
* ''An Introduction to Ubuntu Touch'' at the <nowiki>[[http://www.flisolcba.com.ar/|FLISOL 2013]]</nowiki>; I was also an organizer.
* A similar ''Ubuntu Touch Intro'' talk and another ''Porting to Ubuntu Touch'' crash course at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuconla.org/|UbuConLA 2013]]</nowiki>.
* A talk about testing and autopilot in general at <nowiki>[[http://ar.pycon.org/2012/activity/accepted#92|PyConAR 2012]]</nowiki>.
* UbuntuOpenWeek -> <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2013/05/21/%23ubuntu-classroom.html#t13:02|Ubuntu Touch Team]]</nowiki>

==== Things I can do better ====

* Track existing bugs in a more active manner.
* Respond to issues faster.

=== Future Goals ===

* Improve code test coverage.
* Embrace auto package tests (for click and debs).

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Loïc Minier ===
==== General feedback ====

Sergio has proven a solid understanding of Ubuntu development. Not only does he program in a wide range of the languages we care about -- C, Python, Go... -- he also understands Debian packaging in depth.

More importantly, Sergio is a very conscientious person; he's precise in his work and he keeps automating the things that really ought to be automated. Very important to me, he listens to others and takes comments into account when iterating.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I can't list specific things, but over the past many months I've looked at utility scripts, Debian packaging changes, upstream code snippets and more pieces developed by Sergio; I don't have any bad memory of any! :-)

----
=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===
==== General feedback ====

I worked with Sergio on the snappy project. He knows packaging very well, especialy his golang packaging expertise is very valuable. He is also a strong developer and he knows his golang and python (probably more, but those were the languages we used when working together). I think he will be a good MOTU as he is not afraid to venture into previously unknown areas but knows enough so that he will not be too adventurous :)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
