{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi, 
I succesfully installed Ubuntu 7.10 on a Nexoc Osiris S707. Basically, everything I tested worked "out of the box", see below. 

The only problem during installation was created by the internal clock, which was set to the correct time, but to the year 1981. When asked during installation whether I wanted to correct this and after clicking yes, the installation stalled due to a permission problem and I had to restart it by pressing CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE. Later, the wrong setting of the year created a problem with the security updates (though the reason was not evident). I´d recommend to set the correct date already in the BIOS or at least once the basic installation is done.

All in all, I'm quite satisfied with the machine (I bought it for my mother). It is shipped without OS and I think it's a great bargain.

System specifications:

* Intel Core Duo für Mobile  T2450 2,0 GHz 

* 1024 MB DDR2 Dual Channel

* Display: 17" 1440 x 900 Pixel (WXGA+ TFT)

* Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 950

Working out of the box:

* Display including 3-D Acceleration

* Wireless LAN

* Touchpad including scroll wheel simulation

* Sound including volume keys

* Brighness keys

* Power management including suspend & hibernate, CPU frequency scaling

No tested:

exteral monitor, modem, bluetooth, firewire

----
Brief summary in German:

Auf dem Nexoc Osiris S707 läuft Ubuntu 07.10 vollständig und ohne Probleme. Einzige Komplikation bei der Installation war, dass die interne Uhr auf das Jahr 1981 eingestellt war, und der Versuch, das während der Installation zu ändern, den Rechner aufhängte. Das also am besten schon im BIOS oder erst nach erfolgter Installation (aber vor den Sicherheitsupdates) korrigierten.
----
Hornsby
