{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Greetings Michelle

My name is Sergio Andrés Meneses[1], I belong to the Ubuntu LocoCouncil and the Ubuntu Quality team, as every year we are working on a huge event in LatinAmerica: The UbuconLA[2], an event of general interest[3] (This is a letter from Uruguay Government naming Ubunconla an event of national interest ). In this event people come and learn, and meet about Ubuntu. In 2014 the event will be in Cartagenta[4] / Colombia, and I am the coordinator of the event. 

And why am I contact you? - I talked to Jono about a different sponsorship, and he said: "talk to Michelle". Why a different sponsor? In last versions Canonical helps us with different kinds of material, like videos from Mark and Jono[5], but we want to know if it would be possible that Canonical help us with speakers, this is a huge event only about Ubuntu and we think will be interesting to get official speakers from Canonical.

We have thought to invite Jono Bacon and David Planella, Would be this possible?, all information about the next event is in our official wiki[6]

[1] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SergioMeneses

[2] http://www.ubuconla.org/

[3] https://fbcdn-sphotos-h-a.akamaihd.net/hphotos-ak-prn1/946961_10151597587854931_522924143_n.jpg

[4] http://youtu.be/-CwP6Cajp9k

[5] http://youtu.be/wPedK7cEQoA

[6] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuConLA
