{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== AIGLX/Beryl on Edgy for Dell Inspiron 510m ===
Please note, this is largely for me to record what I have to do each time that I reinstall Ubuntu on my system. It works for me but I make no guarantees that it will work for you. It is largely just a combination of advice on how to set up AIGLX coupled with the guide found <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/InstallingBeryl|here]]</nowiki> on setting up Beryl.

UPDATE: There is now a more official guide to setting up the newer Compiz''''''Fusion at <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusion|CompizFusion]]</nowiki>.

==== Step 1: Enable AIGLX ====
Open up <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code> in a text editor.

Under <code>Section "Module"</code>, make sure that the following lines are included:

<pre>
Load "dri"
Load "dbe"
Load "glx"
</pre>

Next, find the <code>Section "Device"</code> for your graphics card (the <code>Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"</code>), and add the following:

<pre>
Option	"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
</pre>

Next, find the <code>Section "ServerLayout"</code> for your graphics card, and add the following:
<pre>
Option         "AIGLX" "true"
</pre>
And finally, add the following to the bottom of the file, unless it already exists elsewhere:

<pre>
Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection
	
Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
</pre>

==== Step 2: Add the repositories ====
Unfortunately, the "Beryl" (the version of compiz that is maintained by QuinnStorm) packages are not yet in Universe. This means that one must manually add the repositories in order to be able to download the necessary packages.

Add (see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu|here]]</nowiki> for information on adding repositories - the guide doesn't cover Edgy, but the process is similar to Dapper) the "Third Party" sources:
<pre>
deb http://www.beerorkid.com/compiz edgy main-edgy
</pre>
and "Reload". You will get a GPG error. This is because the packages from the repository are not signed by Ubuntu.

The packages in Quinn's <nowiki>[[http://beerorkid.com/compiz/|compiz repositories]]</nowiki> can be gpg authenticated. If you want to be able to check the packages against Quinn''''''Storm's <nowiki>[[http://www.beerorkid.com/compiz/quinn.key.asc|gpg signature]]</nowiki>, import her key by typing the following command in a terminal: 
<pre>
gpg --keyserver subkeys.pgp.net --recv-keys 0x31a5f97fed8a569e
gpg --export --armor 0x31a5f97fed8a569e | sudo apt-key add -</pre>

==== Step 3: Install the packages ====
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/synaptic.html|Use Synaptic to install]]</nowiki> the following files:
<pre>
beryl
beryl-core
beryl-manager
beryl-plugins
beryl-plugins-data
beryl-settings
emerald
emerald-themes
</pre>
or type:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install beryl beryl-core beryl-manager beryl-plugins beryl-plugins-data beryl-settings emerald emerald-themes
</pre>
into a command line.

==== Step 4: Start beryl ====
Type:
<pre>
beryl-manager
</pre>
into a command line. If it works, you can add <code>beryl-manager</code> to <code>System > Preferences > Sessions > Startup Programs</code>. I had some strange things happen if I typed the command into a command line and then closed the command line window. These issues don't occur when it is started as a start-up program.
