{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=42294|Eversmann]]</nowiki>
* Brand: Fujitsu / Siemens
* Make : Fujitsu / Siemens
* Model: Amilo L1310G
* Website: http://www.fujitsu-siemens.es/products/mobile/notebooks/amilo_l.html

------- NOTE ABOUT THIS PAGE, MYSELF AND THE LAPTOP --------

I don't have this laptop anymore. So i won't be updating this page. Anyway, the information that stays here will be useful for every l1310g. Maybe in more future versions of ubuntu the dsdt table got resolved by the linux kernel itself. As I know, the ubuntu 8.10 intrepid ibex with kernel 2.6.27 has the same problem (not really being a kernel problem and more about how the dsdt table from the bios is translated, having that fully-windows-oriented problem). This table will work on most versions of the kernel, as long as the method of dealing with those tables remains the same. 

Not having the laptop means i won't be able to support any other upcoming ubuntu versions. Hope you have the best luck with it out there. 

Regards.

------- CURRENT VERSION DESCRIBED HERE: UBUNTU 8.04 HARDY HERON -------

=== Current State ===

Well, the fan problem took back on 8.04, so i decided to look for a solution for this and future versions. Searching around the net, seeing that no solutions for this problem came from launchpad. The fix came from the kernel mailing list itself, at this thread: http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5289

Quoting from there: 
The issue is that ACPI first tries to read device power state from the _PSC method,
if this is unsuccessful, it evaluates device state from the power resources,
defined for this device. In your DSDT the _PSC is defined with 0x00 value, and
never being updated later, so the device state is always reported ON.
With this patch the things should work as expected.

I want to give a big THANK YOU! to Konstantin Karasyov for fixing the dsdt file. I was with no time to read that long thread at the gentoo forum to learn how acpi works.

Here is what you have to do to run ubuntu linux from scratch on this laptop:

=== From the start ===

Installing Ubuntu 8.04 is just straight forward. It detects your video card, modem and wifi with atheros. I recommend to install the official close source ati driver, and do it from the latest using EnvyNG, anyway, the driver that comes with ubuntu works perfectly. 

The first thing is fixing the ""fan bug"". Grab the fixed dsdt.aml file from http://launchpadlibrarian.net/13974391/dsdt.aml

Copy it to /etc/initramfs-tools/ leaving the uppercase up. After that, run sudo update-initramfs -u -k $(uname -r) (or -u -k all to update all your initram kernel files). 

Then, edit /boot/grub/menu.lst file and add acpi_no_auto_ssdt to the kernel boot lines. Add it to the #defoptions line to make all the new kernel additions enabled with that too. This tells the kernel to not make a new dsdt file at boot and reads the dsdt file you copied.

Fixed this, let's go for the wifi connection. This laptop uses a wifi enabled by a button not controlled by hardware. Because of this, you get a wifi working with no antenna. You need two things: enable the rfkill=0 option for the ath_pci module from the atheros driver, and then, activate the wifi as it was enabled by pression the button, using a module that one guy (BIG THANK YOU! to Martin Vecera) made for the A1655G fujitsu laptop, that also works on the l1310g. 

Be sure to have the build-essentials package installed, and grab the file from http://www.marvec.org/amilo/fsaa1655g-kernel-2.6.26.tar.bz2

untar, compile with make, and then sudo make install (If this doesnt work, read http://www.marvec.org/amilo for more information). You'll have to do this for every kernel update. (Maybe someone can send it to the kernel team? ). After doing this, make a sudo modprobe fsaa1655g radio=0. The wifi led will turn on. Let's make it permanent:

Edit: 
/etc/modprobe.d/options (In Jaunty and newer versions this is /etc/modprobe.d/options.conf)

Add: 

options fsaa1655g radio=1

options ath_pci rfkill=0

Then: 
/etc/modules

Add: 
fsaa1655g

After that, you'll have a laptop with the fan bug at bios resolved, and a wifi fully working. Everything else was set up automatically by ubuntu.

I had no success with the lm-sensors (no sensors detected) and the cpu throttling gave me problems (i remember to made it to work on dapper, but i don't care anymore... caused a delay when changing freqs).

Hope everything helps to the people that have this laptop, or the people from other laptops who suffer from fans being controlled by acpi (hp, ibm...). 

This laptop has a great screen, and some people have upgraded the cpu and the memory (the harddisk is easy to change too) so let's take care of this laptop for more time with our favourite O.S. (if only i could change the video card.....)

- 

=== System Info ===
<pre>

</pre>

=== Hardware details ===
|| || in Hardy (current stable)? 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hardy (current stable)?
|-
| Screen
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Works
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Works
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Works
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Works
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Fails
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Fails
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Works
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Works
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Works(disable screen)
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Partially (worked on dapper, never care anymore)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Works
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Works
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Works
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Works
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Works
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Works
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Works
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Works
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Doesn't have
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Doesn't have
| 
|-
| Modem
| Works
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Works
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| Not Automatic, available on software
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Works
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Doesn't have
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional'''
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Works
| 
|}

----
CategoryLaptop
