{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact:
** vladf <vlad.chel@gmail.com>
** Tim (RUS) <tsablin@gmail.com>
* Brand: Acer
* Make : Aspire
* Model: 5720G, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 2300, Intel 3945ABG Wifi (802.11a/b/g)

=== Current Issues ===
If you use old version of BIOS (I have this problem with v1.06) Ubuntu 7.04, 6.10 and 6.06.1 live cd can return "Kernel panic" when booting. 
Sometimes the Ubuntu 7.04 32 bit stop loading with message "/bin/sh: can't access tty". How to boot Fiesty see below.

==== Feisty ====
* <nowiki>[[http://support.acer-euro.com/drivers/notebook/as_5720.html|Download]]</nowiki> the latest BIOS version and update to it
* To boot from LiveCD
** At the boot menu press F6 for other options
** Add `break=top` before `--`, press Enter
** You will have a message like `can't access tty job control turned off`
** In the prompt type `modprobe piix && exit`
** Now you have access to the graphical intallation if you need one

Options noapic, nolapic, pci=noapic and safe graphical mode may help if the instructions above do not work.

If you got the 'Can't access tty' error, boot with instructions above and install with this guide:
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=421588]]</nowiki>

==== Gutsy ====
Installation works without problem with BIOS version 1.18.

After setup to disk you can also install proprietary driver for ATI video card (from System->Administration->Restricted Drivers Manager). This allow to use 1280x800 screen resolution.

If you have black screen during the boot do this:
* Edit `/etc/usplash.conf` and set `xres=1280`, `yres=800`
* Run `sudo update-initramfs -u`

=== Hardware Info ===

* Audio
Sound doesn't work out of the box, despite that sound card is being detected properly. Try following this guide: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto]]</nowiki>.

* Wifi (Intel 3945ABG)
** Works perfectly out of the box (only tested WEP (Open system) though)

* Graphics Card (ATI Mobility Radeon HD 2300)
** Graphics work fine out of the box, but 3D acceleration isn't/cannot be used, see line below.
** Restricted driver is available but cannot be downloaded, use EasyUbuntu to easily install the ATI Driver.

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Feisty
| Gutsy
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes, but w/instructions above
| Yes
|}

=== Ubuntu with Vista on Acer Asire 5720G ===
If you are a russian speaking user and can't deal with installing Ubuntu over Vista, please visit <nowiki>[[http://www.winline.ru/articles/2489.php]]</nowiki> for detailed instructions
