{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Hardware Specification ===
* Contact: KevinCantu (Original Reporter: GregTaylor)
* Make: Dell
* Brand: Inspiron
* Model: E1405
* Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.dell.com/content/products/productdetails.aspx/inspn_e1405?c=us&cs=19&l=en&s=dhs|Dell Home...]]</nowiki>

There is a more up to date version of this page available under the model <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-DellInspiron640m]]</nowiki>.  The two machines are actually the same, but with different model numbers.

=== Current Issues, out of date ===
* Monitor resolution was not detected and set correctly. You must install using safe graphics mode, install 915solution from universe, and reboot.
* Some users report not being able to boot up in safe graphics mode in order to install. See fix here: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=292299
* 915resolution breaks suspend.
* Ubuntu Edgy, AMD64, appears to freeze the laptop on lid events and when the power cable is unplugged or plugged in. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/65027|possible workaround]]</nowiki>
* The Dell wireless card (Broadcom 4311) required Ndiswrapper 1.27 to run with the 2.6.17-10 x86_64 kernel, <nowiki>[[http://wiki.waningsun.net/index.php?title=Dell_E1405_and_Broadcom_4311_wireless_HOWTO|as described here]]</nowiki>.

=== Notes ===
* Xorg 7.1 should eliminate the need for 915resolution, but may still require setting options in xorg.conf
* One of the most detailed descriptions of installation on this laptop is  * The <nowiki>[[http://bcm43xx.berlios.de/?go=devices|bcm43xx driver]]</nowiki> should eventually support the 4311 chip without need for Ndiswrapper.
* some useful installation HOWTOs
* Gentoo: http://gentoo-wiki.com/HARDWARE_Dell_Inspiron_E1405
* Fedora Core 5: http://jyg.us/e1405/

----
CategoryLaptop
