{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: ChristopherKruse
* Brand: Toshiba
* Make : Satellite
* Model: M55-S139

=== Current Issues ===
  None so far - setup/initial configs went smoothly enough, after finding info for it.

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes(1280x768)
| Yes(1280x768)
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| After installing fglrx, see bottom
| Requires FGLRX, installs fine
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| After installing fglrx, see bottom
| Yes
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Locks on return from Suspend to RAM
| Same as before
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No
| Requires editing ACPI configs, and omnibook module
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Lid always reported closed, see bottom
| omnibook module adds support
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Can use Pentium 4 Voltage scaling
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Yes (also runs SB Audigy ZS notebook)
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| Yes (on both)
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes
| Yes (on internal)
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Limited, see bottom
| Yes (haven't had a problem yet)
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| N/A
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| No
| 
|-
| Touchpad - turned off while typing
| No
| No
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Limited, see bottom
| Same issue as before
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes(CDR/RW, DVDR/RW, DVD-RAM)
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| N/A
| N/A
| 
|-
| USB
| Limited, see bottom
| Same issue
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Mute sound
| Mute
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Nothing(should lock)
| Nothing
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Nothing(should set power level)
| Nothing
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Nothing(should Suspend to ram)
| Nothing
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Nothing(should Suspend to disk)
| Nothing
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Monitor switch(limited, see bottom)
| Same
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Decrease backlight level
| Same
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Increase backlight level
| Same
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Toggle WLAN
| Same
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Toggle Touchpad
| Same
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Unknown
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| NumLock(numpad activation)
| Same
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Unknown(assuming scroll lock due to key graphic)
| Unknown
| 
|-
| + 1
| 
| 
| Nothing (Should zoom out)
| Nothing
| 
|-
| + 2
| 
| 
| Nothing (Should zoom in)
| Nothing
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
Fglrx:  In order for the fglrx driver to run correctly, you need to reinstall the restricted modules package.  Boot up in the recovery console on completing installation.  Type apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r).  Then, type apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r) xorg-driver-fglrx.  Don't understand why it didn't work correctly the first time, but I spend a good 2 days trying to figure it out, and ended up reinstalling after finding that fix on the forums.

''''Update'''' This issue no longer exists with the release of edgy.  Just follow the instructions found on the wiki for ATi drivers.

VGA out:  monitor switch (Fn+F5) will work in CLI mode only, not in X.  If external monitor is plugged in when starting X on 'ati' xorg driver, the external monitor will activate only.  If using the 'fglrx' xorg driver and starting X with the external monitor plugged in, then it will default to a cloned (mirrored) display on both.  Monitor extension should work, but I haven't tried it yet.

LAN/USB:  LAN and USB operation will cut out when using the fglrx display driver.  Because of the chipset of the laptop (ATI IXP SB400), it will allow USB from 5-60 minutes, and LAN will cut out at a different length of time.  Both cutouts are independent, but are each equally annoying.  Basically, it limits you to having USB/LAN but not DRI, or DRI, but not USB/LAN.

''''Update'''' This still happens, and seems to be limited to Ubuntu.  Since the last update, I've run Gentoo, Debian, Fedora Core 5, and FreeBSD, and none of them have an issue like this.  I'm planning on submitting a bug report on this issue.

ACPI:
Not quite sure on this one... A dmesg | grep ACPI shows that the DSDT is not found.  I believe this is what causes the lid to be erroneously reported as closed.
Laptop has buttons on the side for media controls, but these are not active in Linux.

''''Update'''' I've looked at this concept much further since the update.  I've done pretty much everything I could think of - Tried other distro's, tried looking around for other ideas, and even rebuilt the DSDT table(comes with a M$-compiled DSDT).  Still cannot get the Suspend-to-RAM to work.  However, after adding the omnibook kernel module, I have been able to get correct readings for the battery, lid, temperature, and gotten the hotkeys on the side of the laptop (a previously undiscussed issue) to work.  You have to map the keycodes for the hotkeys, but they work.

lspci:
* 0000:00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc: Unknown device 5a31 (rev 01)
* 0000:00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
* 0000:00:04.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc: Unknown device 5a36
* 0000:00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
* 0000:00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller (rev 80)
* 0000:00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller (rev 80)
* 0000:00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 81)
* 0000:00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc Standard Dual Channel PCI IDE Controller ATI (rev 80)
* 0000:00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge (rev 80)
* 0000:00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge (rev 80)
* 0000:00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 80)
* 0000:00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc ATI SB400 - AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
* 01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200M]
* 0000:04:02.0 Ethernet controller: 01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200M]
* 0000:04:04.0 CardBus bridge: ENE Technology Inc CB1410 Cardbus Controller (rev 01)
* 0000:04:06.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)

----
CategoryLaptop
