{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

  Contact: quirks (ubuntuforums.org)

  Make: HewlettPackard

  Brand: Pavilion

  Model: DV6730ec

  Website: http://www.shopping.hp.com/webapp/shopping/computer_can_series.do?storeName=computer_store&category=notebooks&a1=Category&v1=Versatile+performance&series_name=dv6700t_series

=== Current Issues ===
The built-in microphone records sound, but the recordings are very scratchy and every half a second there is loud noise for a split second.

Wireless does not reactivate when disabled and enabled again using the hardware switch (I'll post a fix, when I found one out).
UPDATE: the following two commands seem to fix wireless after switching it off and on again, using the hardware kill switch. Before using these commands, make sure your WLAN adapter is the same as mine (Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG).
<pre>
sudo rmmod iwl3945
sudo modprobe iwl3945
</pre>
This effectively reloads the driver of the WLAN adapter. Until recently, this was not possible: the module could not be reloaded, because it was supposedly still in use. This seems to have changed with an update, I guess.

If you want the system to automatically reload the driver, whenever you disable wireless using the kill switch, do the following:

1. Open GEdit (or your favorite plain text editor) as root.
<pre>
gksu gedit
</pre>

2. Paste the following code into the text file:
<pre>
# !/bin/bash
KILL_SWITCH_ON=$(/usr/bin/udevinfo -a -p /sys/class/net/wlan0 | /bin/grep -c ATTRS\{rf_kill\}==\"2\")
if [ "$KILL_SWITCH_ON" != "0" ]; then
        sleep 3 && /sbin/rmmod iwl3945 && /sbin/modprobe iwl3945 &
fi
exit 0
</pre>

3. Save the file to /etc/network/if-post-down.d/reload_iwl3945

4. Make the file executable:
<pre>
sudo chmod a+x /etc/network/if-post-down.d/reload_iwl3945
</pre>

5. Kill wireless with the kill switch. Wait approx. 5 seconds. Turn wireless on again. After a few seconds, the throbber in the system tray should start working and you should have a wireless connection shortly after.

=== System Info ===
<pre>
Pavilion dv6700 Notebook PC
100KiB BIOS
Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU T5450 @ 1.66GHz
64KiB L1 cache
2MiB L2 cache
2GiB System Memory
1GiB DIMM Synchronous 667 MHz (1.5 ns)
1GiB DIMM Synchronous 667 MHz (1.5 ns)
Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub
Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 PCI Express Root Port
nVidia GeForce 8400M GS
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2
82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller
82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1
Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection
82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2
82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 6
RTL8101E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3
82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1
82801 Mobile PCI Bridge
R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller
R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter
R5C843 MMC Host Controller
R5C592 Memory Stick Bus Host Adapter
xD-Picture Card Controller
82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller
storage 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller
disk CDDVDW TS-L632N
storage 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA AHCI Controller
disk 160GB SAMSUNG HM160HI
82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller
</pre>

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Hardy
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes (but not for external monitor)
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes (with NVIDIA proprietary driver)
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Yes (by pressing Fn + F4, but not in screen resolution preferences)
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes (see above)
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Kind of (you have to fiddle around with nvidia-settings; the display stretches over both screens)
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Yes
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Sometimes
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes (monitor blanks)
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Yes
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| 
|-
| Built-In Mic
| No (it records, but there is a lot of noise and it is very scratchy)
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| N/A
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| N/A
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Fingerprint reader
| Yes
| 
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| N/A
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| N/A
| 
|-
| Card reader(s)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Yes
| 
|-
| Remote Control
| Yes
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy
|-
| + F1
| Help
| 
| Yes, but has the same keycode as button to lock touchpad
| 
|-
| + F2
| Print
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F3
| Browser
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F4
| External monitor
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F5
| Sleep
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F6
| Lock screen
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F7
| Brightness down
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F8
| Brightness up
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F9
| Play/Pause track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F10
| Stop track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F11
| Previous track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + F12
| Next track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Scroll
| Numlock
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Pause
| Break
| 
| Yes, but there is no function assigned to it
| 
|-
| + Insert
| Print screen
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| + Delete
| Sysrq
| 
| No (does the same as Fn + Insert)
| 
|-
| <-5> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-1> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Hardy
|-
| Lock touchpad
| Lock touchpad
| 
| Yes, but has the same keycode as Fn + F1
| 
|-
| Quickplay loop
| Must be defined in keyboard shortcuts
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay DVD
| Must be defined in keyboard shortcuts
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay previous track
| Previous track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay play/pause track
| Play/pause track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay next track
| Next track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay stop track
| Stop track
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay mute/unmute
| Mute/unmute
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Quickplay volume slider
| Adjust volume
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless switch
| (De)activate Bluetooth/Wireless
| 
| Yes (see hints at top of page)
| 
|}
==== Notes ====
The overall support of this notebook is very good. Almost everything works out-of-the-box. For anything else, there is this great blog: http://aldeby.org/blog/index.php/howto-ubuntu-linux-on-hp-pavilion-dv2000-dv6000-dv9000-series-laptops
There are many other interesting posts about Ubuntu and HP Pavilion notebooks on this blog, as well.

You might also want to check out this post to reduce battery consumption and CPU heat: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786402
In my case, I could reduce the CPU voltage by 50% and the temperature went down by 12°C. Updating the BIOS to the latest version (F.53) decreases the temperature by another 5°C (but on the other hand, the fan does not turn off anymore (it is still very silent though)).

If you boot Ubuntu in battery mode (i.e., AC power is not connected), the fan is more silent (in case you do not update your BIOS). You can then plug-in the AC power connector.

----
CategoryLaptop
