{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

** Contact: amato
** Make: Sony
** Brand: Vaio
** Model: AW11M/H
** Website: http://vaio.sony.co.uk/view/ShowProduct.action?product=VGN-AW11M%2FH&site=voe_en_GB_cons&category=VN+AW+Series&assetid=1218032875460

=== Current Issues ===

** Brightness control does not work (see note 2)
** Internal mic does not work.
** Some Fn and special keys do not work
** For Jaunty install: Live CD leads to BusyBox prompt showing, use Alternate CD instead

=== System Info ===

The following system infos have been obtained with dmidecode:

* system-manufacturer: Sony Corporation
* system-product-name: VGN-AW11M_H
* system-version: C600SWZT
* bios-vendor: American Megatrends Inc.
* bios-version: !R0200Y2

All the tests have been performed using the NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (version 177) and the x86-64 version of Ubuntu 8.10 (final release).

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="75%">
| Intrepid
|-
| Installation works?
| Yes
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Works?'''
| '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Intrepid
| in Jaunty
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor (VGA) works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor (HDMI) works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Yes (see not 5)
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Yes (see not 5)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
| 
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes (see note 1)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Yes (see note 4)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Suspend
| Yes (see note 4)
| Untested
| 
|-
| Brightness control
| No (see note 2)
| No
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| No (see note 2)
| No
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-3> '''Sound'''
| 
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes (see note 3)
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Almost (see note 3)
| Same as Intrepid
| 
|-
| Internal Mic
| No
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Yes (see note 3)
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC (802.11g)
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC (802.11n)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| Touchpad
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Doubletap = double click
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Touchpad - Scroll down side
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| Optical drive (CD/DVD media)
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Optical drive (Blu-Ray media)
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Webcam
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| ExpressCard/34 slot
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Secure Digital Card reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Memory Stick Card reader
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Intrepid
|-
| + F5
| Brightness down
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| + F6
| Brightness up
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| + F7
| Display output
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| Untested, probably no
| 
|-
| + F9
| Zoom Out
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| + F10
| Zoom In
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| + F12
| Hibernate
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-5 tablewidth="75%"> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Intrepid
|-
| Mute
| Turns the volume on and off
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume minus
| Decreases the volume
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Volume plus
| Increases the volume
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Eject
| Ejects the optical disc drive tray
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| S1
| Programmable Key 1. Default in Windows: launches the "VAIO Control Center" and opens the "Color Mode Setting" page
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| S2
| Programmable key 2. Default in Windows: launches the "Dolby Control Center"
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|-
| Play/Pause
| Starts or playback of a CD, DVD or Blu-ray Disc
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Stop
| Stops playback
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Prev
| Plays the previous chapter/file
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| Next
| Plays the next chapter/file
| 
| Yes
| 
|-
| AV Mode
| Launches the VAIO Launcher for selecting software to run
| No keycode and no ACPI event
| No
| 
|}

==== Notes ====
 1. The battery is incorrectly recognized as ''non-rechargeable'' in `/proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/info`. This is a BIOS bug, and has been already notified to Sony (see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=475801]]</nowiki>). Moreover, `/proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/state` does not report the voltage of the battery.

 2. The backlight is always at full power unless the screen is blanked. However, brightness may be reduced using the ''NVIDIA X Server Settings'' software, which is installed by default in Intrepid. Noe that ''NVIDIA X Server Settings''  does not change the power of the backlight but the rendering of colors.
 
 3. Headphones and speakers are both controlled by the same mixer channel, namely ''Front''. Plugging the headphones does not automatically mute the speakers. This makes headphones almost useless. Moreover, the system bell is not audible.  It is possible to fix these problems by using an appropriate model parameter to the `snd-hda-intel` kernel module. In practice, you need to include the following line to `/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base`:

 `options snd-hda-intel model=`''<model>''

 There are several possible choices for ''<model>'', but the most appropriates are the following:

** `clevo-m720`: It is possible to control the volume for speakers and headphones separately, using the ''Speaker'' and ''Headphone'' mixer channels respectively. Moreover, speakers are automatically switched off when headphone is inserted. System bell is still not audible. Microphone jack appears to not work in this mode.
** `acer`: It is possible to control the volume for speakers and headphones separately, with the ''Front'' and ''Surround'' mixer channel respectively. Speakers are NOT automatically switched off when headphones are inserted. System bell is audible, and its volume is controlled by the ''PC Speaker'' mixer channel.

 4. There are some random issues. For example:
** sometimes some of the windows which were open during suspend or hibernate will appear when the system asks for the password, just after the resume. It is not possible to interact with these windows now, but the system will accept the password nonetheless, and they will work afterwards;
** sometimes, if there is a CD in the optical drive, the message ''Cannot mount audio drive'' appears in a new windows, just after the resume.
 In any case, none of these issues compromise the functionality of the suspend and hibernate functions.

 5. Testing wasn't extensive, both desktop extension and cloning seem to work, there seemed to be alignment issues with the external monitor connected via HDMI, however these could be related calibrating the external monitor.
----
CategoryLaptop
