{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Contact: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/CelsoProvidelo|Celso Providelo]]</nowiki>, EricSRaymond, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~joemburgess|Joe Burgess]]</nowiki>
* Make: Lenovo/IBM
* Brand: Thinkpad
* Model: X61
* Website: 
* lspci output:

<pre>
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile Memory Controller Hub (rev 0c)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82566MM Gigabit Network Connection (rev 03)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f3)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation Mobile IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation Mobile SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Unknown device 4230 (rev 61)
05:00.0 CardBus bridge: Ricoh Co Ltd RL5c476 II (rev ba)
05:00.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd Unknown device 0832 (rev 04)
05:00.2 Generic system peripheral [0805]: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 21)
</pre>

In your BIOS, the SATA controller must be set to '''Compatibility''' rather than '''AHCI''' to enable the optical drive.

=== Gutsy Tribe 4 Issues ===

Tests by CelsoProvidelo.

Using gutsy kernel (2.6.22-10-generic or 2.6.22-10-i386) resuts in a *spinning* '/sbin/udevd --daemon' process and a kernel error like:

<pre>
Aug 26 14:50:40 kirsten kernel: 33.228000] device-mapper: ioctl: error adding target to table
Aug 26 14:50:40 kirsten kernel: [   33.228000] device-mapper: table: 254:0: linear: dm-linear: Device lookup failed
Aug 26 14:50:40 kirsten kernel: [   33.228000] device-mapper: ioctl: error adding target to table
</pre>

CelsoProvidelo: The <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/115616|udev problem]]</nowiki> was fixed after release/upgrade.

=== Gutsy Tribe 5 issues ===

These tests by EricSRaymond.

lspci output is slightly more detailed about the graphics controller (Intel GM965/GL960) but seems otherwise equivalent.

==== Known to Work(as of Jaunty) ====

External Monitor 

Bluetooth works as well as the bluetooth enable and disable button

Fingerprint Reader (using ThinkFinger)

The spinning-udevd bug reported above for Tribe 4 does not occur under Tribe 5 (2-6.22-12-686).

All X tests are OK.

Both wired and wireless NICs work.

Battery status and type are detected.  GNOME Power Manager controls are functional.

Laptop awakens from sleep on lid open.  
Lid close events are handled properly and can trigger suspend.
Hibernate works.

The brightness applet is correctly called by the Fn_Home and Fn-End.
The screen-lock key Fn-(F2) works.
The battery-info key (Fn-F3) works.
The sleep key (Fn-F4) works).
The suspend-to-disk key (Fn-F12) works.
The keyboard-light key (Fn-PgUp) works.

CD-ROM in the UltraBase operates properly when the media slice is present at boot time.
UltraBase can be added and removed with the system running without oopsing the kernel.

The Ethernet port in the UltraBase works.  (Note, plugging in the UltraBase disables the Ethernet port on the side of the X61.)

Sound works, and so do the volume buttons, but you have to unmute your speakers first.  To do this, run alsamixer, repeatedly hit the right-arrow key until the "Speaker" column appears, and use the "m" key to change it from MM to OO. 

The mute button always mutes rather than toggling; you have to undo it by hitting the volume-up button.

==== Known to Fail ====

The ThinkVantage button does nothing.

The trackpad-enable toggle (Fn-F8) does nothing.

The dock-eject button (Fn-F9) does nothing. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/146699|Ubuntu bug #146699]]</nowiki>.

CD-ROM is not recognized when the UltraBase is added with Ubuntu already running.  See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/129125|Ubuntu bug #129125]]</nowiki>.

CelsoProvidelo: The fingerprint is sensible, but worked with the instructions in http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Installing_Ubuntu_7.10_%28Gutsy_Gibbon%29_on_a_ThinkPad_T61#Fingerprint_Reader.

The PCMCIA slot works fine with a 1xRTT Kyocera card, although it would be nice to test with other cards.

==== Not tested ====

Modem is untested

Serial, USB, external-monitor, audio, and mic ports on the UltraBase are untested.
