{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-maverick-ensemble
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

This spec is a placeholder to cover work that will be needed by the Ubuntu Server team to aid in Ensemble development.  The end goal of work from the Server team is to have Ubuntu server (possibly a UEC image) to boot inside a LXC container.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Design will be handled mainly by the Ensemble team.
* IRC: #ubuntu-ensemble on irc.freenode.net
* Mailinglist incoming, mail gustavo@canonical.com if you want to be on the list as soon as it starts

=== Implementation ===

This is very open ended, especially with the expected changes to upstart/udev and the like for Maverick.  Getting a ubuntu server filesystem booting in a LXC container will likely undergo regressions during the cycle.

==== Code Changes ====

code changes will likely be in:
* upstart
* UEC images (ec2-automated-builds)
* general server packages
* foundations packages / early boot

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

The largest unknown here is expected changes to init.  getting a "full boot" of upstart in an LXC container isn't something that is known working now, and expected to have some fallout / breakage over the development of maverick.

----
CategorySpec
