{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== The Report ===

==== Present and discuss ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool page ====

dendrobates announced the creation of the ServerTeam/HardyIdeaPool wiki page as a way to keep track of suggestions for HardyHeron in the server area. Everybody is welcomed to add short ideas to this page.  The ideas will be used to plan discussions during the next Ubuntu Developer Summit. dendrobates sent an email to ubuntu-server to ask more input from users and advertise the HardyIdeaPool page. The response has been good. As of now, ideas shouldn't be added to the wiki page anymore. Specification are currently created in LP and the schedule for UDS Boston is being finalized.

Ideas should be sent directly to rick clark to get them included in the UDS discussions ().

==== Setup TeamReporting ====

mathiaz said that TeamReporting has been setup with the help of dantalizing and that the ServerTeam has a section in the monthly report.

==== New tasksel tasks ====

soren gave a quick update about the new tasksel tasks: print-server, samba-server, postgresql-server and mail-server were added to the ubuntu-server CD. dendrobates mentioned that test cases need to be written to cover these new tasks and added to the ISO tracker. mathiaz added them during the RC and final testing period.

==== Official MTA in Ubuntu ====

soren gave an update about the official MTA in Ubuntu. It was agreed that settling on a default MTA is a good idea and also that it should be postfix. We probably won't change packages to *only* change that, but if we're changing a package (and hence carrying a delta to Debian) we'll do it. Also, we'll try to convince Debian to do the same. Technically, it'll be done by adding a meta package called something like default-mail-transport-agent, which will be prepended each time something depends on m-t-a. default-mail-transport-agent will then in Ubuntu depend on postfix. Debian might choose exim4. soren will send an email on debian-devel about the change when work on Hardy will start.

==== Use of backport for samba ====

mathiaz raised the issue of using dapper-backports to provide the latest version of samba. Every now and then, bugs are filed in launchpad that ask to upgrade samba (or other packages such as mysql) to the latest version available. In the case of samba, the main issue is that dapper version doesn't support vista clients. A long discussion followed about backporting, the use of the -updates pocket and the fact that dapper-backports is not supported. No consensus was reached.

It boils down to which version of samba should be pushed in -updates. This issue will be discussed during Bar''''''Camp in Boston as upstream samba developers will be there.

mathiaz also reported that he started to package samba 3.0.26 for dapper and may push it in dapper-backports.

==== Bug Triagging ====

mathiaz went through samba bugs. He also mentioned that the automatic expiring feature in LP highlighted the fact that we still haven't gone through all bugs in packages and that further work is needed in triaging bugs related to ubuntu-server.

==== Iso testing ====

The ServerTeam has tested both the RC and final isos for Gutsy. Anyone wanting to help with iso testing should register with the iso testing tracker at https://iso.qa.stgraber.org/ and subscribe to the Ubuntu Server testcases. Everytime a new build is available, tester will be notified.

==== Reviewing the Server Guide ====

sommer and pschulz01 did some great work in reviewing the server guide. They have a list of improvements, however it's too late for Gusty since there is a Freeze for documentation. mathiaz suggested to add a section in HardyIdeaPool about documentation.

mathiaz also clarified that the community documentation in not frozen and wiki pages under help.ubuntu.com/community/ can still be edited and improved for Gutsy.

==== AppArmor status ====

mathiaz gave an update about AppArmor. The new kernel module has been uploaded and he is happy about the state of AppArmor. keescook is also satisfied with the state of AppArmor in Gutsy.

==== LDAP authentification ====

dendrobates announced that libpam-ldap and libnss-ldap have been accepted into main and are in the seed. As a result ldap-client-config and auth-client-config are in Gutsy and LDAP authentication is officially supported.

----
CategoryServerTeam
CategoryTeamReport
