{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:servercloud-p-kvm
* '''Created''': 2011-10-19
* '''Contributors''': serge-hallyn
* '''Packages affected''': qemu-kvm

=== Summary ===

We aim to get the following into qemu-kvm during Precise:

** 1.0
** spice
** robust caps-lock handling
** vde (needs MIR)

=== Release Note ===

Qemu-kvm now supports high-quality remote graphics using spice.

Qemu-kvm now ships with VDE support for an advanced virtual networking.

=== Rationale ===

Spice provides high-quality video from a VM, which is particularly useful for remote desktop solutions.

Caps-lock appears to be fragile when user's keyboard is remapped.

VDE is a virtual switch often requested by users.  We haven't been able to enable it in qemu-kvm because it is not in main.  We hope to fix that this cycle.

=== User stories ===

Jack has several users remotely accessing desktops from VMs on his server over a fast network link.  They want to have fast graphics, and watch videos even though they are using a remote desktop.

Jane wants to run several qemu VMs, but manually setting up tap devices for each is confusing.  She'd like to be able to run qemu under vde to trivially share one tap device with all qemu VMs.

=== Assumptions ===

1.0 is released in time.

VDE can be pulled into main.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
