{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== For Ubuntu 12.04 LTS and newer, please see MAAS ==
~+'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MAAS|https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MAAS]]</nowiki>'''+~

=== Orchestra ===
A collection of what we think are the best free software services for provisioning, deploying, hosting, managing, and orchestrating enterprise data center infrastructure services, by, with, and for the Ubuntu Server. Orchestra, enables users to quickly deploy a solution in the datacentre. Instead of manually setting up a complex network installation environment, users can leverage Orchestra to rapidly deploy new servers in production using the best open-source tools. The process is standardised and fully automated, minimising manual intervention and ensuring consistency. 

Once servers are installed on the network, Orchestra will deploy, scale and control service applications - such as Openstack or Hadoop - across the environment. It will also allow users to monitor server activity centrally and provision new server resources rapidly. In short, Orchestra allows organisations to provision solutions acroos bare metal in minutes.

=== LaunchPad Page ===
https://launchpad.net/orchestra

=== Highlighted Components ===
* <nowiki>[[http://avahi.org/|avahi]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/CloudInit|cloud-init]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://thekelleys.org.uk/dnsmasq/doc.html|dnsmasq]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://fedorahosted.org/cobbler/|cobbler]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/maas|maas]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.nagios.org/projects/nagioscore|nagios]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openssh.com/|openssh]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openssl.org/|openssl]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/powernap|powernap]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.rsyslog.com/|rsyslog]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.squid-cache.org/|squid]]</nowiki>
    

=== Experience of provisoning ===
 1. Rack a server
* Turn on a server
* Server netboots and 'registers' itself with the Orchestra provisioning server (cobbler)
* Server shuts down
* (WAIT)
* When server is required, it is Wake'd on Lan via powerwake and installs a base Ubuntu server with cloud-init installed.
* Juju customizes the install to be as required.

=== Experience of monitoring ===
Right now we're deploying just the basic infrastructure for nagios (server and nrpe clients) then each payload will be responsible to register itself with the desired checks through nrpe into nagios
We define hostgroups by role name automatically

=== Experience of managing server ===
TBD

=== Experience of logging server ===
Centralised logging, collecting all tradional syslog output into central server.  Orchestra logging client reconfigures rsyslog (via preseed) to log to the central logging server.  Currently we have no webui for log grepping, but octapusy is on the roadmap.

=== Deploying Orchestra fleets ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2011/09/oneiric-server-deploy-server-fleets-p1/|Deploy Orchestra server fleets part 1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://cloud.ubuntu.com/2011/09/oneiric-server-deploy-server-fleets-p2/|Deploy Orchestra server fleets part 2]]</nowiki>
