{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:cloud-server-n-kvm-and-hypervisor
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': serge-hallyn
* '''Packages affected''': qemu-kvm, libvirt-bin

=== Summary ===

KVM and libvirt are crucial pieces of our cluster stack.  We must
make sure to test and merge the latest upstream releases as they
come out.

=== Release Note ===

The latest stable releases of KVM and Libvirt are available.

=== Rationale ===

KVM and libvirt are crucial pieces of our cluster stack.  We must
make sure to test and merge the latest upstream releases as they
come out.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== UDS Natty discussion ====
<pre>
=== KVM/Libvirt hypervisor work ===

actions:
* re-syncing kvm with debian:
** sponsor merge of qemu-kvm 0.13.0
** offer that to debian for Experimental, work with them if possible+needed
* Jamie to look into adding more tests into qa-regression-testing from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VirtFeatureVerification
* Serge to look at http://www.mail-archive.com/libvir-list@redhat.com/msg12703.html
* Consider packaging libguestfs - likely in a ppa first
* Follow up on ubuntu build recipes for kvm-autotest
* Follow up on (Soren's) machine dedicated to kvm testing
** Use for extensive kvm+libvirt testing?

Non-kvm qemu for arm-on-x86 testing was brought up, but it was felt that Qemu on Arm (i.e. emulating x86) was not worth doing.  As for qemu emulating arm on x86, upstream (Peter :) needs to do work to merge Nokia's qemu-omap tree into upstream, at which point we can package it.  It is hoped that can be done during the Natty cycle.  KVM on arm will become interesting in a few  years.  Xen was brought up.  We have DomU support, and kernel team only wants to support Dom0 if it gets pushed upstream.

</pre>

----
CategorySpec
