{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Server Team ==

~+The <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-server|Ubuntu Server team]]</nowiki> works to enable and promote the use of Ubuntu Server, the number one cloud OS.+~

We specifically focus on three key areas:

1. Providing a robust and stable infrastructure for scale-out computing deployments.
2. Supporting the latest scale-out computing workloads and architectures.
3. Providing the right tools for orchestrating services within a scale-out computing environment.

=== Communication ===

If you want to contact the ServerTeam use the following resources:

==== Mailing List ====

Join our mailing list at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-server.

You can read an archive of messages at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/.

==== IRC ====

The server team utilizes IRC to offer support for server-related questions. The team sits on freenode in the #ubuntu-server channel.

The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBots|ubottu]]</nowiki> IRC bot makes it easy to share an extensive set of <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/factoids.cgi|factoids]]</nowiki> to others in an IRC channel.  E.g. typing <code>!ask | noobie</code> will cause ubottu to tell noobie that folks should just go ahead and ask their questions.  Ubottu can also conveniently show the channel information on bugs and packages.  See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBots|ubottu]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Getting Involved ===

There are different areas where you can help the Ubuntu Server Team. Here are a few ideas:

==== Help on Mailing List & IRC ====

You can lend a hand with people's questions and problems on the above mailing list and the IRC channel. Ask and answer questions, provide suggestions, and provide input in our periodic calls for input.

==== Test, Test, Test ====

If you have server-type hardware or can spin up VMs and containers, you can make sure that Ubuntu is supported and works well on it. You can also test software and features worked on by the Ubuntu Server Team.

==== Improve Documentation ====

You can head to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|community documentation]]</nowiki> to check that server related pages are up to date or help to get the Ubuntu Server Team wiki pages into shape.  You can also <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/server/docs|help with the Ubuntu Server Guide]]</nowiki>, the official Server documentation.

==== Verify SRUs ====

Whenever we fix a bug in past stable releases, we need somebody who is not the developer making the fix to verify that the package fixes and doesn't cause any obvious regressions. It is vital that we have people test these updates before they are sent to all users.

The full process for doing so is here:

<nowiki>[[QATeam-PerformingSRUVerification]]</nowiki>

Here is the <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/sru-tracker-bugs.html#verified_bugs|list of server bugs needing verification]]</nowiki>.

==== Triage Bugs ====

The goal of triage is to move bugs that are in a NEW status to a CONFIRMED or INVALID status.

To get started:
# Choose a bug from <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.importance%3Alist=UNDECIDED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=ubuntu-server&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.has_no_package.used=&search=Search|the New,Unconfirmed bug list]]</nowiki> and subscribe to it.
# Work with the user to identify the issue using the INCOMPLETE status.
# Once the bug is reproducible and the process to reproduce it is clearly documented in the bug thread set the status to CONFIRMED. If it turns out that there isn't any bug set the status to INVALID.
# You can unsubscribe from the bug as your role as a bug triager is finished.
# Read more bug triaging resources: 
*** <nowiki>[[BugSquad-KnowledgeBase]]</nowiki>
You should also subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-server-bugs|ubuntu-server-bugs mailing list]]</nowiki> where all the bugs are sent. You can also view the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/|list of bugs related to the ServerTeam]]</nowiki> and help triaging them. 

==== Improve Packages ====

You can have a look at the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+packagebugs|list of packages]]</nowiki> looked after by the Ubuntu Server Team to see if some needs packaging work. 

This is a excellent way to gain experience to become a <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu Server Bug Triage ===

'''Goal:''' To successfully review every bug filed against Ubuntu Server related packages

A review involves analyzing a bug to determine if the bug is valid and if sufficient information was provided. If the bug is both valid and provided with sufficient information, the bug is marked as triaged and will be worked to closure by a member of the server team. Otherwise, the bug will be responded to and marked as 'Incomplete' for more details, 'Invalid' for not a real bug, or 'Won't Fix'. In certain (rare) cases bugs might stay in new/confirmed which reflects we need to look into it again more deeply to triage in a better way.

This is a list of the various queues of interest to the server team.  They are a good place to go if you are looking for a good "what to do next" bug.

<pre> comment
contact davidpbritton if you want these bit.ly vanity links modified
</pre>
* <nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/ubuntu-server-next|Top 20 Bugs ("server-next")]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/ubuntu-server-bitesize|Bite-sized Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/ubuntu-server-recent|Recently modified Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+subscribedbugs|Full Backlog]]</nowiki>

For Details about the process have a look at The <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-maintainers-handbook/blob/main/BugTriage.md|Ubuntu Maintainers handbook]]</nowiki>.

==== Additional Resources ====

Helpful Guides and Definitions:

* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance|Definitions for bug importance levels]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status|Definitions for bug status settings]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DebuggingServer|Server specific triage responses]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses|Additional predefined response templates]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Server Packaging ===

We are transitioning to a <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging-GitWorkflow|git-based workflow]]</nowiki> for handling package changes. This also allows us to use Launchpad Merge Proposals and request Reviews before publishing a new package version.

For details about this please have a look at <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-maintainers-handbook/blob/main/MergeProposal.md|Merge Proposals]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/ubuntu-maintainers-handbook/blob/main/PackageMerging.md|Package Merges]]</nowiki> in the Ubuntu maintainers handbook.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryServerTeam]]</nowiki><<BR>>
CategoryUbuntuTeams
