{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Reference Plugin ===

The Jenkins bazaar plugin was the first plugin packages and is hence the one and only reference at this point in time:

<pre>
   bzr branch lp:~hudson-ubuntu/+junk/jenkins-bazaar-plugin
</pre>

=== Patching the pom.xml ===

Needs extra build elements and more dependencies - see jenkins-bazaar-plugin - build.patch for an example of what needs to be done.

==== Why? ====

Well Jenkins does provide a parent pom file for plugin development - libjenkins-plugin-parent-java. However maven-repo-helper strips out the version numbers from the maven plugins specified in the <build> element of the parent plugin; maven DOES NOT LIKE THIS and dies when operating offline.  However, versionless plugins in the direct, local pom.xml file appear to be OK.

This is really ugly but until a toolchain update can be worked out it has to be this way.

=== Packaging ===

==== libjenkins-xx-plugin-java ====

Should contain the java artifacts produced during the build process - not sure whether this is useful but probably so.

Does not install to /usr/share/java as not useful (use DEB_MAVEN_INSTALL_TO_USJ := false in debian/rules).

==== jenkins-xx-plugin ====

Contains the hpi file associated with the plugin.  The jenkins upstart script copes with installing new plugins when Jenkins is restarted - just ensure its dropped into /usr/share/jenkins/plugins.
