{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-cloud-ovf
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

This should provide an overview of the issue/functionality/change proposed here. Focus here on what will actually be DONE, summarising that so that other people don't have to read the whole spec. See also CategorySpec for examples.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== OVF summary ====
packaging format for appliances

==== Where does this affect ubuntu/uec ====
- Eucalyptus (bundle and upload to it)
- uec-images.ubuntu.com (our creation of appliances)
- ec2-init (runs inside the image and consumes meta-data / customization data)
- appliance store

benefits for ovf-enabled uec images:
* more platform where images could be deployed: xensource, vmware, virtualbox.
* be able to register/leverage ovf images in UEC/Eucalyptus.

support ovf in eucalyptus/UEC/euca2ools:
* create wrappers to upload/bundle ovf images to EC2/UEC.

Extended usage:
* multi images
* configuration data: ex: network configuration support (dhcp, interface).

(Lucid) Support of ovf in UEC images: add support for different location of config data (user data for EC2, ovf) (ec2-init package). Abstract the concept of meta-data in the UEC images: extend the script support to be more configuration oriented: pulling the data from a virtual iso, a url, etc... Take customization info from the user.
1. running a script

Eucalyptus ovf support: present configuration data info to the user. Upstream is aware, no current plans for lucid.
euca2ools ovf support: convert a ovf into a UEC bundle.

Support for ovf in vmbuilder: no need to support the complete spec.

Integration in virt-convert (libvirt).

What about libvirt support, where libvirt can accept an ovf definition and then consumers like standard libvirt managament tools, ec2/euca, others could benefit

Cloud usage (Rackspace): support for a subset of ovf and translate for their systems.

Convert to ovf:
* vmbuilder
* running instances 
* convert a UEC bundle to ovf (euca-rebundle command)

----
CategorySpec
