{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:packageselection-server-n-java-dev-toolsets
* '''Created''': JamesPage
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': Maven

=== Summary ===

This specification outlines the details of packaging a number of popular Java and Groovy 'coding-by-convention' development tool-sets for Ubuntu.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu now features a [Gradle|Spring Roo|Grails|buildr] development toolset that you can use to build your [Java|Groovy) applications. 

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu currently packages Ant and Maven 2 to support Java packaging and development; a number of other development/build tool-sets including Gradle, Spring Roo, Grails and buildr are gaining popularity in the Java/Groovy development community and we should consider packaging for Ubuntu.

=== User stories ===

* Felix is a Java developer who is new to the Spring development toolset; he quickly and easily installs both the Spring core libraries and the Spring Roo toolset on his Ubuntu Desktop without needing to download from www.springsource.com.

* Janice is a Java developer who is fed-up of writing realms of XML to support Maven based build processes; she quickly and easily installs buildr on her Ubuntu desktop and uses it as a drop in replacement for her existing maven based Java projects and new Java/Scala/Groovy development projects.

* Eric is a System Administrator for an estate Hudson based continuous integration servers; his development teams have adopted a new build toolset called Gradle and he is quickly and easily able to install this on all of his Ubuntu server infrastructure to support the requirements of the development team.

* Luke is a Groovy developer who wants to use Grails to develop his next Web 2.0 project; he quickly and easily installs Grails on his Ubuntu Desktop without having to download lots of zips from various websites.  
 
=== Assumptions ===

None at this point in time.

=== Design ===

==== Grails ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| URL
| http://www.grails.org
|-
| Current release
| 1.3.5
|-
| Dependencies
| <nowiki>[[attachment:grails-dependencies.txt]]</nowiki>
|-
| Debian ITP
| http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=473213
|}

* Popular Spring/Java based Web 2.0 development tool-set using the Groovy development language.  Implements the 'coding-by-convention' paradigm eliminating the requirement for developers to write loads of boiler-plate/configuration allowing focus on what really adds value to an application.
* Easy deployment of resulting .war artifacts onto Tomcat (already in main archive) for production deployment.
* Uses gradle as a build system (see below)
* Miguel Landaeta is working on this package in Debian. 

==== Gradle ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| URL
| http://www.gradle.org
|-
| Current release
| 0.8/0.9-rc1
|-
| Dependencies
| <nowiki>[[attachment:gradle-dependencies.txt]]</nowiki>
|-
| Debian ITP
| http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=587832
|}

* build-by-convention Groovy based build system for developing Groovy and Java applications
* Used by Grails (see above).
* Gradle uses gradle to build itself (supplied in the source zip file)
* Miguel Landaeta is working on this package in Debian. 

==== Spring Roo ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| URL
| http://www.springsource.org/roo
|-
| Current release
| 1.1.0 RC1
|-
| Dependencies
| <nowiki>[[attachment:roo-dependencies.txt]]</nowiki>
|-
| Debian ITP
| http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=585439
|}

* Spring/Java based web application framework for developing Java based web applications (alternative to Grails).
* Implements the 'coding-by-convention' paradigm
* Miguel Landaeta is assigned the ITP for this package in Debian. 
* Maven based build process:
** some re-bundling for other jars for OSGi compatibility
** some dependence on non-free jars such as oracle JDBC drivers. 

==== buildr ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| URL
| http://buildr.apache.org/
|-
| Current release
| 1.4.3
|-
| Dependencies
| ruby-full ruby1.8-dev libopenssl-ruby build-essential rubygems
|-
| Debian ITP
| N/A
|}

* Ruby based build-by-convention build system for Java,Scala and Groovy.
* Based on Rake (Ruby make)
* Potential drop-in replacement for Maven (to be validated).
* Distributed as a Ruby gem so may be easy to on-board to Debian and Ubuntu?

=== Implementation ===

TBC

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

TBC

=== Unresolved issues ===

TBC

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
