{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-o-lxc-improvements
* '''Created''': May 18, 2011
* '''Contributors''': serge-hallyn, daniel-lezcano
* '''Packages affected''': lxc, linux-image

=== Summary ===

Containers are currently useful for system build and test purposes, but are lacking in many ways compared to openvz and vserver.  The goal of this spec is to close some of those holes.

=== Release Note ===

LXC now supports easy container cloning, clean shutdown and reboot, task moving between existing namespaces, and improved filtering of /proc contents.  [ filter and enhance per actual completed upstream work ]

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

Containers are a very lightweight alternative to full system virtualization.  Openvz is more featureful, but is not upstream and requires very old kernels.  By closing the feature gap with containers we can increase the number of use cases in which containers can replace heavier-weight alternatives like kvm. 

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
