{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''DRAFT: NOT IMPLEMENTED'''

The social structures, community processes, and technical decisions of the ServerTeam are supervised by the Ubuntu Server Team Council.

== Responsibilities ==

* Insures that all Ubuntu Server Team members adhere to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu code of conduct]]</nowiki>. 
* Appoints new members to the ServerTeam following the guidelines set on <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/Membership|Membership]]</nowiki>.
* Makes day to day decisions and sets the direction and priorities of the team.

== Operations ==

=== Meeting ===
* Issues will be discussed during the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/Meeting|Ubuntu Server Team meeting]]</nowiki>.
* You can submit an item or proposal for discussion at a Ubuntu Server Team Council meeting by adding it to the agenda of the next <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/Meeting|Ubuntu Server Team meeting]]</nowiki>.
* The council can be reached at .

== Current members ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Real Name
| IRC Alias
|}

Nominations for the Ubuntu Server Team Council will start on the day of each new Ubuntu release. Voting for the Ubuntu Server Team Council will be held at the first meeting following the new release. Each member comes up for re-election every release cycle.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryServerTeam]]</nowiki>
