{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-karmic-kvm-qemu-packaging
* '''Created''': 2009-06-03
* '''Contributors''': DustinKirkland
* '''Packages affected''': qemu, kvm, qemu-kvm

=== Summary ===

The KVM/QEMU upstream projects are now providing a "stable" branch, called qemu-kvm.  This branch is "supported" with bug fix updates after release.  Ubuntu should sync/merge this code base for kvm/qemu functionality in Ubuntu 9.10, and track the upstream bug fixes applied to that branch.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== UDS Raw Notes ===

* Historically Qemu hasn't had a release process.
* Distros should now be shipping supported release tree.
* Stable releases are announced on mailing list.
* When does qemu-kvm released?
** Released a day after qemu is pushed to git.
* Get Qemu into Main will replace KVM package.
** Create a second package qemu-user in Universe.
** Place arm, i386, and amd64 into main.
** Executables need to match previous KVM package.
* BIOS package.
** Source code provided in KVM.
** Seperate package in Debian and Ubuntu at this time.
** BIOS binary could be built with Qemu package.
** Bochs BIOS in KVM based on old version plus patches.
** KVM has different QA requirements.
** Will use new CBIOS in future versions of Qemu.
* Backport for Jaunty KVM to Hardy. 

----
CategorySpec
