{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-installation-profiles/
* '''Packages affected''': tasksel

=== Summary ===

We should consider adding more tasksel tasks, including:
* Directory Server (ldap)
* Advanced virtual mail server using ldap or mysql
* apt-mirror
* remote syslog server
* iscsi target/initiator
* xen-host
* kvm-host
* ntp-server
* caching server
* a network security / monitoring server
* LTSP Thin Client server

We should also consider how to make tasksel a tool that ISV can use to set-up their own application

=== Release Note ===

N/A as this spec should be split into multiple ones once we have defined which tasks we will want to implement for Hardy.

=== Rationale ===

Tasksel is a great tool to help admin set up pre-configured sets of packages at install time.  We need to make sure that we :
* provide the right set of tasks for the most common setups
* provide a coherent set of tasks so that they work well together
* enhance the tasksel mechanism so that it can pull packages from other repositories
* enhance the installer so that when producing iso, some tasks could be pre-selected and silently installed (this way ISV could have automated installs of their software)

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

Discussion:

Directory server task:

LAMP task:
** enable fcgid in the LAMP task.

Mail server task:
** setup sasl between dovecot and postfix.

Making sure that services installed use pam for authentification.

----
CategorySpec
