{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Objective ===
This page has for goal to define a server survey that we would ask our community to answer on a regular basis.

===== Subpages =====

=== Introduction ===

In an effort to better understand, support and further the Ubuntu Server Edition we would like to ask you to take this survey which should take between 10 to 20 minutes to complete. 

The information provided will help us determine where we can improve support, where to add additional resources and to generate a better understanding of the community which we work within.

Please note that this survey is being conducted by the Ubuntu Server Team in conjunction with the Canonical Server Product Management Team.  Information about the Server Team is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/

=== Tool ===

* We are using <nowiki>[[http://limesurvey.org|LimeSurvey]]</nowiki> to perform the survey.
* Please report bugs on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/|launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* Survey configuration and templates is also maintained on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/server-survey/|launchpad]]</nowiki>.

=== Questions ===

The questions have now been put in LimeSurvey.  Please find an export of the questions in html format for the 2009 survey:
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ServerSurvey-v2.0B1.html|v2.0B1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ServerSurvey-v2.0B2.html|v2.0B2]]</nowiki>

Questions asked in 2008:
* <nowiki>[[attachment:ServerSurvey-v1.0.4.html|v1.0.4]]</nowiki>

Please write your comments on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/|launchpad]]</nowiki> or discuss them in the Server ML or on #ubuntu-server.

=== Change Requests ===

* Please report change requests on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/server-survey/|launchpad]]</nowiki>.  Doing so will make it easier for us to address specific changes or to manage conversations regarding topics better if they are not on the ML or IRC.
