{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:servercloud-p-libvirt
* '''Created''': 2011-11-19
* '''Contributors''': serge-hallyn
* '''Packages affected''': libvirt

=== Summary ===

To-do list for libvirt during Precise cycle:

** Merge 0.9.8? (Start with 0.9.6 now)
** should removing libvirt-bin shut down its vms and remove bridges?
** netcf
** bash completion
** support libvirt-guest sysvinit script from debian? (main plus being support for suspend/resume of guests)

=== Release Note ===

Libvirt now supports host network configuration through netcf.

Libvirt virsh is now easier than ever to use thanks to bash command line completion.

Libvirt guests can now optionally be suspended, rather than shut down, when the host shuts down, and resumed on host bootup.

=== Rationale ===

Guests may be slow to boot up, or may be in the middle of important computations.  If the host must shut down, such guests would be better suspended rather than shut down.

Users frequently ask for the ability to remotely view the host network configuration while configuring libvirt or guest networks.  Netcf provides this introspection.

=== User stories ===

Joe tried out libvirt, but decided it should go on that other host, not this one.  But now he has removed it, and 'virbr0' won't go away.

Jill is remotely defining a guest, but wants to view the remote host's network to help decide on the best guest network configuration.

Jane hates extraneous typing, and would like to be able to type 'virsh -c<tab> lxc<tab> sta<tab> co<tab>1' in place of 'virsh -c lxc:///some.remote.host/ start container1'

Joe's VM guest is in the middle of a 4-day computation.  The power goes out while he is out, and his UPS tells his host to shut down.  When he gets home, the guest is booted up and idle.  He sure wishes the host had suspended and resumed the guest.

=== Assumptions ===

netcf can be packaged in main.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
