{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''NOTE: this page is yet more a try on a template than a proper report  -- AchimBohnet'''

* Contact: AchimBohnet
* Make: Sun
* Brand: Galaxy
* Model: X4100
* Website: http://www.sun.com/servers/entry/x4100/

=== Current Issues ===

==== Kubuntu related ====

* RAID1 array of builtin LSI SAS controler not recognized by installer. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/37452|Malone #37452]]</nowiki>.  '''Workaround:''' unknown.
* single disk of builtin LSI SAS controler detected as ''/dev/sdi''.  Reboot fails because now it's ''/dev/sda''. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/33249|Malone #33249]]</nowiki>.  '''Workaround:'''  replaces ''/dev/sdi'' with ''/dev/sda'' in /etc/fstab /boot/grub/menu.lst
* Network setup via DHCP:  ~ 1 out of 4 unattended installations stop because automatic network config fails due timeout too short.  A manual retry succeeds immediatly.  Haven't found a way to preseed a longer timeout (10 sec more would be fine)
* Network services fail on boot because DHCP network setup seem to be done in background and startup scripts of NFS, AFS fail because network setup has not finished yet.  '''Workaround:''' add a startup script after loops untils a default gateway is defined (linked as S21networking-wait4up)

==== Hardware related ====

* The builtin service processor board lists the 4 GBit interfaces in a different order than Kubuntu, SLES9 or Solaris.  OS: 1,2,3,4 -> SP: 3,4,1,2.  '''Workaround:''' Sun send us a little tool that changes the order of the interfaces in the SP to match the order of the OS.
* Configuring the service processor network info with DHCP without a gateway.  Monitoring via IPMI fails after some hours, due to log entries overflowing memory.  Report to Sun. No fix yet. '''Workaround:''' adding gateway info to DHCP fixes the problem.

=== Hardware details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| no
| no
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4 tablewidth="75%"> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|-
| Serial console
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Yes (tested console)
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| Untested
| Yes
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> Mice'''
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Floppy
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6> '''Special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Breezy?
| in Dapper (current development)?
|}

==== Notes ====

=== References ===

* http://ioctl.org/unix/debian/x4100
