{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Policy ===

Membership lasts for one year, and is renewable. If not renewed the member will join the former member list.

Users that have applied for membership and have not met the criteria within a 2 month period will have their application declined.

=== Requirements ===
The following criteria have to be met by all team members:
* Subscription to the ubuntu-server mailing list.

=== Process to apply for membership ===
Becoming a member of the Ubuntu Server Team is really easy:
* Subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-server|ubuntu-server mailing list]]</nowiki>.
* Apply for membership for the ubuntu-server team on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+join|launchpad]]</nowiki>.

=== Process to approve a new member ===
** Check that the member is subscribed to ubuntu-server mailing list.
*** If the applicant is subscribed, approve the member in launchpad. The approval should be sent with the following comment:
    <pre>
Welcome to the Ubuntu Server Team - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam!

We're looking forward to working with you. There are many ways you can help us: the GettingInvolved wiki page lists areas where you can contribute (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved).

You can also have a look at our Roadmap to see what we're working on now and pick a specific task to contribute to (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Roadmap).

If you're interested in bug triaging, you should subscribe to the ubuntu-server-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com mailing list - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-server-bugs.

Thanks and welcome aboard !

The Ubuntu Server Team.
</pre>
*** If the applicant is not subscribed and email address is available from LP, send a invitation using the preferred email address in Launchpad to subscribe to the ubuntu-server mailing list with the following message:
    <pre>
Hello,

Thank you for your interest in the Ubuntu Server Team on Launchpad. Membership requires a subscription to the ubuntu-server mailing list. Please confirm your subscription and we will happily approve you.

Thank you.

The Ubuntu Server Team.
</pre>
*** If the applicant is not subscribed and email address is not available from LP, contact the user via LP to subscribe to the ubuntu-server mailing list with the following message:
    <pre>
ubuntu-server membership application
</pre>
    <pre>
Hello,

Thank you for your interest in the Ubuntu Server Team on Launchpad. Membership requires a subscription to the ubuntu-server mailing list. 

You can subscribe to the mailing list here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-server

Thank you.

The Ubuntu Server Team.
</pre>
*** If the application is declined, put the following message as a comment:
    <pre>
Hello,

Thank you for your interest in the Ubuntu Server Team on Launchpad. We're sorry to decline your application as you haven't met the criteria to become a member.

The Membership policy is outlined here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Membership. 

You can reapply for membership whenever you want by following the process described here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/GettingInvolved#becomemember.

Thank you,

The Ubuntu Server Team.
</pre>
