{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Develop a set of server user cases as part of a thorough Ubuntu Server QA testing process.  This follows up on the UbuntuDownUnder/BOF/SmallBusinessServer configuration and wizard spec.  

=== Rationale ===
While there are numerous server combinations, a set of typical user cases can be developed that will provide a thorough server testing process.  The use cases can be developed into a set of scripts in an automated testing process.

=== Use cases ===
A good set of Use Cases needs to be established (should use some kind of experimental design techniques but for now just pick a few)

Services identified in UbuntuDownUnder/BOF/SmallBusinessServer
Basic" Network Services
  DHCP, (Dyn)DNS, Time
Access to/from the outside/internet
  Dialup, Firewall, VPN/IPSec, Web Proxy and content filter
Authentication
  Central user and group management (for Unix clients (and Win clients?)), LDAP/NIS,                                              Printing & Fax
File Storage
  "Roaming profiles", central home directories, Storage for Unix based clients (NFS, AFS), Storage for Win clients (SMB), WebDAV ?
Groupware
  Mail sending/receiving, Spam/Virus detection and filtering, Mail storage, Mailing lists, Shared Calendar, Shared Address books
Backup
  Backup of server configuration and data stored on the server, Backup service for clients

Use Cases identified in UbuntuDownUnder/BOF/SmallBusinessServer
  Company Stone LtD. needs to deploy a 10 seats network/office with a relatively small server to handle the above mentioned tasks.
  Company Pitti needs to deploy a new mail server for his little office but he already has a dns/dhcp server running on another machine.
  doko decides to start a small home business from scratch and wants to install a replacement server for his old rh server without losing services, so he plans to migrate one service at a time to the new Ubuntu Sohoserver.

Classifying the uses cases (from UbuntuDownUnder/BOF/SmallBusinessServer)

New network / new office:
  The machine provides "all" services including Firewall and DHCP, it's the only server.
  Internet access, maybe DNS and DHCP are provided by a DSL router or something else. Some services have to be disabled. Which ones, how to find out?

Existing network
  Integrating server in existing network without server, i.e. add a SOHO server for Win workstations running in a workgroup.
  Add it adding and/or replacing servives running on other servers (maybe not the target group).

Software Combinations
Web Server
  Apache2, Lighttp, ?
Database Server
  MySQL, Oracle?, Postgresql, SQLite
Web Languages
  PHP, Perl, Ruby, Java

Hardware Combinations
  Dell-x86, Sun AMD, IBM?, HP?, 3rd Party virtual server?

=== Scope ===
Initially, create several use cases for small business setups.  Once a process seems to be working well, larger use cases can be accomodated.

=== Design ===
A good experimental design should be established for the various combinations of services, use cases, hardware, software

=== Implementation ===
1) "Typical" business use cases need to be determined (several were identified in page UbuntuDownUnder/BOF/SmallBusinessServer and some notes above).  
2) Once key cases have been determined (try for about 20 cases), then detailed installation how-tos can be created for each case.  
3) A good server how-to wiki template should be created.  
4) The how-tos then form a set of test installations that can become part of the QA process. 
5) Eventually a set of automated installation scripts could be created for the use cases and these can become part of an automated test. 

First goal will be 2-4 use cases.

==== Code ====
The first phase requires no coding except to coordinate with the configuration and wizard installation coding.

==== Data preservation and migration ====
None

=== Unresolved issues ===
This is a first rough cut - typical use cases to follow

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
