{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Server Acim bir "Çağdaş Çoksesli Türk Müziği" Bestecisidir ve bir yandan fırsat buldukça Ubuntu ve Kubuntu kullanmaktadır. Linux sistemini seven, Linux işletim sisteminin ülke çapında yaygınlaşmasını isteyen ve bunun için elinden gelen desteği vermeye çalışan bir insandır. Windows köleliği ülkeyi sarmışken, kendisi aslen <nowiki>[[http://www.pardus.org.tr|PARDUS Linux]]</nowiki> kullanmaktadır, fakat bunun yanısıra <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> ve <nowiki>[[http://edubuntu.org/|EdUbuntu]]</nowiki> projesini de takip etmektedir.

=== LİLYPOND KILAVUZU ===

<nowiki>[[http://lilypond.org|LilyPond]]</nowiki> nota yazma programını destekleyen bir besteci olarak, Türkiye'deki müzik öğrencilerine ve müzik eğitmenlerine bu yazılımı tanıtmak, kullanımı konusunda fikir ve bilgi vermek üzere <nowiki>[[http://acim.name.tr/lp-dersler|"LilyPond Kılavuzu"]]</nowiki> başlıklı bir sayfa oluşturmaya başlamıştır. Ubuntu ve Kubuntu'da da kullanılabilen LilyPond yazılımı hakkında bilgi almak için aşağıdaki link ziyaret edilebilir.

<nowiki>[[http://acim.name.tr/lp-dersler/index.html|LilyPond Kılavuzu]]</nowiki>

=== Server ACİM | Home Page ===

Besteci'nin bağımsız web sayfasına ulaşmak için aşağıdaki linke tıklayabilirsiniz.

<nowiki>[[http://acim.name.tr|Server ACİM - Bağımsız Web Sayfası]]</nowiki>

=== in English ===
I am a composer. I compose music. I'd graduated from Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University - State Conservatory - Composition and Conducting.

I am also a Free Software Devotee. I am using Ubuntu since its the very first release. As a composer I am using <nowiki>[[http://lilypond.org | GNU LilyPond]]</nowiki> too.
I am contributing Ubuntu with Turkish translations on Launchpad. I am also the member of GNU-TR translation team. You can see my team membership and my contributions to the GNU-Translation the link below:

http://translationproject.org/team/tr.html

You can take a look of my personal home page: http://acim.name.tr
