{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== The report ===

'''Triager'''
* 
 
'''Packager'''
* sommer started to work on including a default ssl configuration in apache.  he has contacted the apache maintainer in Debian regarding standardizing a default ssl configuration. No answer was  received so far.
* soren is working with upstream ebox devs to get ebox into universe before the feature freeze
* ScottK talked about the state of the MIR writing process, which state can be tracked on the ServerReviewPackage wiki page. Fabio wrote a lot of them. ScottK took care of amavisd is making good progress on the front.  Most of the packages have a MIR written as of now.

'''Tester'''
* soren will devise a plan for tracking upgrades testing. soren hasn't started to track LTS upgrade testing. He'll try to come up with a plan. He thinks tracking on per package basis is a good starting point. mathiaz added that writing a page about setting up a LTS upgrade test environment would help attract testers.

'''Documenter'''
* sommer stated that a section about JeOS has been added to the Server Guide. The content is based on the JeOS tutorial written by nijaba. However there may be some issues with the publisher. sommer will work with nijaba to resolve the issues.
* nealmcb stated that most of the factoids have been included in ubotu. There is a list of extra factoids in the Roadmap.
* astabeno and sommer will take a look at ubuntu firewall while updating the firewall section of the server guide.
* sommer is thinking about adding sections related to eBox and OpenLikewise (Active Directory integration). An AppArmor section has been added, based on the content of the wiki page on help.ubuntu.com. based on mathiaz' suggestion, sommer will add a section on virtualization based on soren's blog post.
* sommer mentioned that the Server Guide is being reviewed for Hardy and progress is made.  Documentation freeze may be moved to allow for more qa time. So if there are any more major sections that need updated/added it should be done before Feb 14th.

'''Developer'''
* zul will an item to the Roadmap about Xen integration in Hardy.  He got Xen mostly working on Hardy, based on patches from Suse.  It's mostly packaged and sitting in NEW. He has to push out a kernel. mathiaz asked if his work was tracked somewhere. zul said no, but agreed to create a wiki page about it and add it the roadmap.
* jdstrand has uploaded the first version of UbuntuFirewall to universe. He'd like to have more testing. The project has been renamed to Uncomplicated Firewall.

----
CategoryServerTeam
CategoryTeamReport
