{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== The Report ===

* Previous Business - zul wrote a wiki page detailing his plans for Xen in the 
next release: XenInHardy The blueprint can be 
tracked in <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xen-hardy|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
- soren sent an email to debian-devel about the mta meta-package proposal. The thread turned into a discussion about which mta (postfix or exim) should be the default.  soren will try to send another email about it.

* sudo bug issue - dendrobates raised the issue that some server installations wouldn't create a user that has sudo powers. Some reviews ran into that bug. The forums also have some threads about it. dendrobates and nijaba tried to reproduce the problem, but were not 
successful.  There are a couple of bugs in LP: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/user-setup/+bug/158952|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/user-setup/+bug/162638|2]]</nowiki>.  members of the server team were asked to do various test installs to check if this bug can be reproduced and  comment on one of the above bugs.

* Ruby On Rails specification - dendrobates asked for help on the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/rubyonrails|spec]]</nowiki>.  The
specification is being written in the wiki: RubyOnRailsStack. lionel volunteered to take a look at it since he has some experience with RoR. He will contact david to start working on the draft. mathiaz stated that he could be the approver, but the spec needs to be written and approved by Thursday to get it included in Hardy.

* JeOS support/documentation for gutsy, plans for hardy - nijaba will write a tutorial about JeOS.  nealmcb suggested to create a launchpad team and a mailing list for users and developers of JeOS.

* <nowiki>[[/Roadmap|ServerTeam Roadmap]]</nowiki> Review - ivoks will file a bug to track postfix configuration changes required for dovecot integration, as suggested by mathiaz.  sommer mentioned that the documentation has been updated to use Dovecot SASL.  ivoks will write a MIR for mod-fcgid.

----
CategoryServerTeam
CategoryTeamReport
