{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Reporting & Documentation ====

 1. The ServerTeam is streamlining the status reporting process.  Weekly meeting agenda items will be based on the ServerTeam roadmap.  Reporting will, in turn, be based on the status reports from the weekly meetings.  

 1. GettingInvolved updated with forums

==== Support & Community ====
 1. Michael Behrens and Nick Barcet independently began working on making surveys as a way to better understand users of the Ubuntu Server Edition.  They've joined forces and the ServerTeam is working on defining questions that will hopefully allow us to better identify where to focus resources, support, and development.

 1. Michael has also added a sticky post to the forums which describes how to get involved and where to find help.

 1. The need for a lightweight mentoring program was identified as a way to possibly spur interest in growing communinity participation with the ServerTeam. Mathias has proposed an initial outline of how the process would work.

 1. Michael reported that the "Server & Security" forum has been split in two and both are listed under the main support categories.

[1]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Survey

[2]: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=702167

[3]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/Mentoring

==== MIR Status ====

* Snort has been pushed back.

* drdb needs needs some work, that zul has almost completed.

* Only munin hasn't been reviewed.

==== Bacula Status ====

** ivoks removed a lot of the universe dependencies from the bacula package. The remaining one is sqlite/sqlite3, which should be moved to main soon. mathiaz suggested to ask the MOTU release team for a FF exception or at least review the changes made in order to make sure that the bacula upload to universe isn't against FF.  ivoks will get in touch with the MOTU release team to get an FF exception before uploading bacula to universe.

==== Ebox Status ====

** zul said that ebox is in a much better packaging state and is getting closer to being uploaded to universe.

----
CategoryServerTeam
CategoryTeamReport
