{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Privacy Policy: Ubuntu Server Survey ==

The survey is being conducted in coordination with the Ubuntu Server Team and the Canonical Server Product Management Team.  The information collected will be used to 
help the community identify, address and target specific resources to build a better
Server Edition and to increase the market penetration of the commercial product.

=== Data Collection ===

The data is being collected by the Ubuntu Server Team, RedMonk, and the Canonical Server Product
Management Team.  

The survey is done anonymously with the exception of logging the IP Address of the
submitter, which is done to conform to legal requirements.  

Individuals who submit data will optionally be provided the opportunity to identify themselves and to request contact from the survey providers.  This process is 
entirely optional and not required in order to complete the survey.

=== Data Utilization ===

The data collected by this survey will be used by the Ubuntu Server Team, RedMonk
and the Canonical Server Product Management Team.  

Usage of this data may be presented to third parties in anonymized forms, either in the form of reports or marketing materials.

The collected data will not be sold to any party at any time.  This includes
any optional data of a personal nature such as email addresses, names, phone
numbers.

=== Data Retention ===

The Ubuntu Server Team and the Canonical Server Product Management Team reserve the
right to retain this data for a period of 3 years or in the case of legal requirement,
the allotted legal period.  For the purposes of these legal requirements, the
applicable privacy laws and statues are those of United Kingdom.

Individuals who have optionally submitted personal information may request that
the personal information be removed or modified.  Such a request may be made at any time.
Requests for removal of personal data may be sent to nick.barcetNO_SPAM@canonical.com
