{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-maverick-new-stacks
* '''Created''': 2010-05021
* '''Contributors''': ChuckShort
* '''Packages affected''': samba
* '''See also''': SpecTemplate

=== Summary ===

Being the release after a LTS, maverick is a good starting point to offer our users new stacks we have not thought of before. This includes Virus Scanning for File Servers, Calendaring/Email and network monitoring.

=== Rationale ===

Suggesting new stacks offers our users a drop in replacement for common workloads for the local area networks. These include Calendaring, Antivirus, and network monitoring.

=== Use Cases ===

** Gregory is a network administrator who wants to have a calendaring server in order for his boss can share a calendar with him.
** Pedro would like to pay for a network monitoring system but his boss will only alow him to install a commercially available program so they can get support.
** Jason is a network administrator who wants to replace their old Microsoft exchange server with a FOSS alternative.

=== Design ===

=== Package Selection ===

 The packages that were selected are the following:
** Vscan - A virus scanning module for Samba.
** SOGO - A FOSS calendaring solution for Linux.
** ZenOSS - A FOSS network monitoring solution.
** Liferay - An enterprise open source portal and collaboration software.
** Spice - Allows users to connect to virtual desktops.

=== Implementation ===

* vscan is an external samba module that is not supported by the samba developers and needs to be
   forward ported. 
* SOGO's debian packaging is complete, however it needs to be reviewed 
* ZenoSS is not packaged and it will have to be done.
* Liferay is not packaged and it will have to be done.
* spice will be handled by the Ubuntu Server Community.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

<pre>
Canonical needs to weigh maintenance costs vs. benefits to deviate from upstream:
* Samba vscan (zul)

Upstream needs to be guided to the REVU/upload process:
* sogo (zul) -> universe
* zarafa (zul) -> universe - this is packaged in partner, but deps will prevent universe - JP

Upstream needs to be engaged for a potential packaging partnership:
* Zenoss - JPugh works directly with them - potentially a very difficult packaging process
* Liferay - JPugh works directly with them - this has deps on Sun Java

Will be handled as part of the Ubuntu Server community blueprints:
* Spice (revolutionlinux)

Abandoned:
* JBoss5
</pre>
----
CategorySpec
