{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Along the same lines as <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2017-March/039714.html|Robie's recent post to ubuntu-devel]]</nowiki> for a sponsorship queue squashing party, nacc proposed a monthly Server Bug Squashing Day. (This has been since updated to bi-monthly).

Have you ever been interested in wanting to help make Ubuntu Server better but been stymied by not being sure where to start?

We will hold a twice-a-month IRC (FreeNode/#ubuntu-server) event that hopefully will help encourage contributions to Ubuntu for server-related bugs and demystify the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment|Ubuntu package development]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates|Ubuntu Stable Release update]]</nowiki> process.

Ideally, if you are interested in contributing, you would take a look at the following two queries on bugs to which ~ubuntu-server is subscribed (some overlap, probably):

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.subscriber=ubuntu-server&field.tag=bitesize+ | bitesize]]</nowiki> (implying small changes are needed)

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.subscriber=ubuntu-server&field.tag=server-next+ | server-next]]</nowiki> (implying these are the next set of bugs to look at for the Server Team)

When I ran these queries, they had 24 and 20 bugs respectively, which is pretty manageable.

The <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.subscriber=ubuntu-server|overall ubuntu-server backlog]]</nowiki>, though, is up to 405!

And since there is now a daily rotation of Server Team members doing triage, that number is only going to go up. It does not feel possible for just Server Team members to get us even to a steady-state

And that's where Server Bug Squashing Day comes in!

I do not expect it to be very rigidly structured, and we will learn what works as we go, but bring a bug you'd like to help resolve (again, ideally from the list above, as it will mean someone from the Server Team has already looked at it) and we'll talk about how to generate the debdiff, how to build a package, how to test it and any
other development-related issues that might come up.

Once you've been mentored in fixing one or two bugs, I think it is certainly possible you will be able to go and look at packages you are interested in and do some real good! And of course, the Server Team will be a resource on Bug Squashing Day and otherwise to help!

This isn't school, but anyone that wants to prepare or just start on your own to then come to the event with questions out of your work we encourage to read through some good starting documentation at:
* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SponsorshipProcess|Ubuntu Sponsorship Process]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ProposedMigration|Ubuntu Proposed Migration]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates|Ubuntu Stable Release Updates]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/Merging/GitWorkflow|Git Based Workflow]]</nowiki>
