{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:cloud-server-n-monitoring-alerting
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

As a UEC admin I'm alerted by UEC when physical nodes go down or services are flaky.

As a UEC admin I can integrate my UEC deployement into my existing nagios system.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Write the code to measure once - make it available to multiple readers.

Reader examples: collectd, munin, snmp, reconnoiter, nagios.

=== Implementation ===

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== UDS Natty discussion ====
<pre>
Follow up of https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/server-maverick-uec-monitoring.

User stories:
As a UEC admin I'm alerted by UEC when physical nodes go down or services are flaky.
As a UEC admin I can integrate my UEC deployement into my existing nagios system.

UEC Monitoring uses a munin plugin based on the ganglia plugin packaged with Eucalyptus.  If munin is installed, it sort of auto-configures.

OpenStack has its own instrumentation that collects information on the running virtual machines and stores it.

What to measure on a UEC deployment?
 Now:
* number of vms
* memory 
* disk space
* cpu time used by instance
* memory consumed by instance
* disk stats by instance
 measured by a  script in eucalyptus

 Next:
* Node controller:
** number of instance running
** resources used by each instance: number of core, disk available, memory
** generic stats: network io, disk io, power consumption
** statistics about each instance: kvm information, cpu load
** ksm
** disk io per instances
* Storage controller:
** disk io
** network io
* instance creation.
* is your cloud full?
   capacity of the cloud: can more instances be spanwed?
   all the resources that a user can create/request.
* power utilization?

Which framework to write probes for?
* nagios:
   - already in main.
   - what to alert on?
* collectd:
   - MIR status:
     splitting the package into two sources packages.
   - supports multiple output.
   - has a lot of dependencies. Performs well but tightly coupled with instrumentation.
   - doesn't support graphing.
* munin:
   - already in main
   - already used in UEC monitoring framework
* snmp:
   - already in main
* ganglia:
   - in universe
   - write to only rrd files.
* zenos:
   - not packaged
   - pull based system - ie agentless.
   - upstream willing to help.

How to present the graph to sysadmin?
* munin
* collectd
* snmp

Configuration:
* unicast - point-to-point 
 
Alerting:
* nagios may go away: there is a nagios fork. icinga (mainly changes around the web ui)? www.icinga.org
* shinken: complete rewrite in python.
* flapjack:
 
Actions:
* move collectd to main.
* should munin go to universe (probably not yet)
* find a graphing solution (munin, graphite, reckonater (omniti - not packaged, visage).
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
