{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Short Version ===

* uvirtbot announces NEW bugs in #ubuntu-server
* kirkland wrote a <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~kirkland/ubuntu-vm-builder.html|simple frontend]]</nowiki> for generating the verbose arguments ubuntu-vm-builder accepts.
* Darwin Calendar server is available in the Intrepid repository.

A full report can be found <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/ReportingPage/2008-05#long|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Long Version ===

===== Bug announcement in #ubuntu-server =====

soren added a new bot, uvirtbot, in #ubuntu-server. There are two bots in there (the other being ubottu) that have been configured to announced NEW bugs related to the ubuntu-server LP team.

===== Front end for ubuntu-vm-builder =====

kirkland created a simple frontend for generating the verbose arguments ubuntu-vm-builder accepts [1]. It's javascript, so it runs in your local browser, no posting of passwords and machine configurations over the net. 

There was some discussion about rewriting the page using ActiveX - it didn't get far due to a lack of knowledge in this technology.

[1]: http://people.ubuntu.com/~kirkland/ubuntu-vm-builder.html

===== Darwin Calendar Server =====

owh pointed out that Darwin Calendar Server is available in the intrepid repository.

----
CategoryServerTeam
CategoryTeamReport
