{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Server Guide Specification ==

# '''Audience:''' The target audience for the Ubuntu Server Guide is broad: new users and experienced users. They should benefit from it. However, it focuses more on command line tools as the default ubuntu-server install has no graphic environment.
# '''Table of Contents:''' Refer to the same section below.
# '''Target Presentation Formats:''' xml, html, pdf
# '''License:''' DocteamLicense
# '''Technologies and Techniques:''' DocBook xml, and stored in the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-SystemDocumentation-Repository|docteam]]</nowiki> repository.
# '''Release Target:''' '''Feisty Fawn''' (Ubuntu 7.04), Apr, 2006
# '''Links to Current Version:''' The latest version of Server Guide is available at <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/index.html|here]]</nowiki>
# '''How to Contribute:''' The best way to contribute is to send an email to the ubuntu-doc mailing list (ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com)
# '''Primary Contacts:''' DocumentationTeam, RobertStoffers and <nowiki>[[Bhuvan]]</nowiki>

== Ideas for the upcoming Server Guide for '''Feisty Fawn''' ==

*** Network Applications
*** Web Applications
*** Email and Database Applications

== Table of Contents for Server Guide ==

1. Preface
  i. Conventions
  i. Contribution
  i. Feedbacks
# Introduction
# Network Configuration
*** Configuration
*** Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) 
*** Time Synchronization with NTP
*** OpenSSH Server
1. Network authentication
*** OpenLDAP Server 
*** LDAP client authentication 
*** How to setup NIS
1. DNS
*** BIND
1. Security
*** Firewall Iptables
1. Web Servers
*** Apache2 PHP5 MySQL
*** Squid - Proxy Server
*** Ruby on Rails
*** Apache Tomcat 5 
*** Apache JBOSS
1. Database
*** MySQL 5.0 
*** PostgreSQL 
1. Web Applications
*** Drupal 
*** Joomla 
*** Mambo
1. Wiki Applications
*** MoinMoin 
*** MediaWiki
1. File Server
*** FTP Server
*** NFS Server 
*** CUPS - Print Server
1. Mail, Groupware, and Chat Servers
*** Sendmail
*** Qmail
*** PostFIX
*** Mailman
*** IrcServer 
*** Jabber
1. Version Control System
*** Subversion
*** CVS
1. Monitoring
*** Nagios2 
*** Internet Traffic Monitoring 
1. Windows Networking
*** Introduction
*** Installing SAMBA
*** Configuring SAMBA
