{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== NGINX in Zesty Zapus ===

Zesty Zapus will ship with NGINX version 1.10.3*.

This page here details important changes, new features, or notes regarding NGINX for Zesty Zapus.

''* Subject to change, until FinalFreeze''

=== New Features ===

==== Dynamic Module Support ====

As of NGINX version 1.10.0, Dynamic Modules have been available for NGINX, but were not enabled in Ubuntu.  Since Ubuntu Xenial, we had not shipped any of the dynamic module functionality from Debian.

As of Zesty Zapus 17.04, dynamic module support, and other related packaging changes, are now available in the NGINX package.

=== Performance Notes and Changes ===

==== fPIE / fPIC Enablement and Performance Impact on 32-bit NGINX ====

As of Zesty Zapus 17.04, the default building of packages has changed slightly to push for the `fPIE` (Position Independent Executable) flags to be pushed in for builds of packages.  As a result of this change to the default build environments, and at the urging of the Security Team to leave it enabled, we have also had to enable the `fPIC` (Position Independent Code) flags for the code as well.

While we have shipped with `fPIE` in builds since at least Xenial Xerus 16.04 due to it being requested for the builds, it was not yet caused issues until the introduction of shared libraries and modules.  The issue was that the shared libraries and executables both failed to build without enabling `fPIC` (Position Independent Code) as well.  It has already been identified that there may be a performance impact from `fPIE` on 32-bit builds, but this performance impact may be more noticeable thanks to enabling `fPIC` as well.
