{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


===== Getting rid of old libdb versions =====

zul, mruiz and ScottK have been working on migrating universe packages from libdb4.3 libdb4.6.

libdb4.2 will stay in the archive as openldap still needs it.

===== Server Guide documentation =====

sommer updated the Server Guide for Hardy: he wrote new sections about ebox and virtualization and most of the Server Guide has been reviewed for Hardy : the Ubuntu Server Guide is completed for Hardy.

sommer has some ideas about improvements for the next cycle. mathiaz advised him to add them to the <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/IdeaPool| Server Team IdeaPool page]]</nowiki>.

===== Wiki page on help.ubuntu.com/community/ =====

mathiaz suggested to focus on the wiki pages on help.ubuntu.com. The samba pages, especially dealing with AD integration, could be updated with regard to the arrival of likewise-open in hardy.

===== Create a Server GUI Guide =====
<nowiki>[[Asommer]]</nowiki> wrote up a short page on how-to install a GUI on a ubuntu server install: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI|ServerGUI]]</nowiki>

nealmcb requested feeback on the ubuntu-server mailing list for a new servergui factoid.

===== Virtualization Host support =====

soren hijacked #ubuntu-virt IRC channel. This is now the canonical place for virtualisation development and support.                            
                                                                                
He also created ubuntu-virt team on Launchpad for:
# having a PPA for backporting stuff to get more testers
# having a team as bug contact for all the cool (i.e. virtualisation related) packages.             
                                                                                
He disabled non-accelerated kvm. This enabled it to build with gcc 4.x,  so that it could get promoted to main. soren uploaded kvm-62.                                       
                                                                                
soren spent some time cleaning up and refactoring ubuntu-vm-builder. ubuntu-vm-builder has been accepted into universe. The latest version is also available from the ubuntu-virt ppa.
                                                                       
soren updated gtk-vnc to new upstream version. With this release, the VNC protocol extension to send scan codes rather than keysyms over the wire was made official.

keescook uploaded virt-clone that actually works.

jdstrand updated KvmVirtManagerEtc for information on how to convert a vmware image to libvirt. kees used vmware2libvrt to convert all of his vm's to kvm. keescook and jdstrand are now using kvm in hardy to do all the testing related to security updates, both for server and desktop.

===== Windows authentication integration =====

zul wrote a MIR for likewise-open. dendrobates has updated the package.

===== AppArmor =====

jdstrand migrated/created AppArmor profiles for mysqld, named, and slapd.  These have been uploaded to hardy.

jdstrand worked on package upgrades that ship a new apparmor profile in enforce mode: upgrading for a version that hadn't an apparmor profile available will install the profile in complain mode. A new install will install the profile in enforce mode. 

===== Security in Ubuntu =====

Hardening-wrapper testing continued.  Uncovered issues with assembly-using source packages not being PIE-sane.

===== Uncomplicated Firewall =====
jdstrand uploaded new versions. ufw has been accepted into main.

===== Write MIR for server related packages =====

zul fixed initscripts as a result of the MIR comment. He also assigned Ubuntu Server Team as contact address for bug reports for all the packages that have been moved to main as part of this Spec.

Uploaded new versions of openvpn, aoetools, and openipmi.

===== Ebox =====

zul has uploaded a new version of ebox in universe.

===== Server survey =====

A lot of work has been done by faulkes- on the questions and fine tuning them to get the average length to fill the survey below 15 minutes.

keescook is about to do a security audit of lime survey code, requested by elmo before allowing it to go in prod on one of the ubuntu servers

owh has drafted a <nowiki>[[ServerTeam/ServerSurveyLaunch|wiki page]]</nowiki> with a list of resources where we can announce the survey]. He has also added an announcement email to the wiki page.

mathiaz asked whether the questions of the Server survey could be also put on Brainstorm. nijaba didn't see how this was possible. The questions in the survey are more about what the users are running in which environment rather than what users would like to see implemented.

===== ServerTestingTeam update =====

mathiaz revamped the ServerTestingTeam wiki pages. He sent an email on ubuntu-server to ask for more hardware testing.

===== iSCSI Support =====

soren and dendrobates decided it was worth adding root fs on iscsi support to the installer. soren talked with slangasek about supporting root-over-iscsi and was granted a FeatureFreezeException for this work. About half of the job is done, however this feature didn't make it for Beta.

soren doesn't have any test hardware - however he is in contact with one person that has a proper test environment. He is particularly interested in blade systems that support booting from an iscsi device. faukles- mentioned he may have access to an iscsi box sometime next week and would be willing to perform some testing.

===== Bacula =====

ivoks has been working on updating the bacula package with the aim to get it included in main. zul uploaded it and filed a MIR.

===== Mysql testing =====

jdstrand has been preparing a security update for mysql. There are several issues that are addressed, 2 required a rather substantial patch. All of this is documented in Bug:201009. He has uploaded the packages to -proposed for wider testing. mathiaz suggested to ask for testing feedback on the forums.

===== Mysql root password check at installation =====

mathiaz reviewed nxvl patch to mysqld to prompt twice for the root password during installation.

===== mysqld apparmor profile and akonadi =====

mathiaz discussed how-to integrate akonadi and mysqld apparmor profile: akonadi starts its own mysqld daemon and store the data files into           the user's home directory. That doesn't work with the default apparmor profile shipped in hardy.

jdstrand and kees suggested that akonadi create a hardlink from /usr/bin/mysqld to /usr/bin/mysqld.akonadi when the package is installed and uses /usr/bin/mysqld.akonadi when starting their own mysqld daemon.   

===== status action in init scripts =====

kirkland and owh extracted a list of packages that have init scripts and no 'status' action implemented. The scope of the work was defined to add a status action to init scripts for daemons shipped on the ubuntu-server iso.

kirkland and owh started to work on adding a status action to init scripts responsible for starting daemons on ubuntu server. Further discussions with the release team lead to a rejection of the FeatureFreezeException. Although the technical reasons are sound, the current phase of the hardy release cycle isn't suitable for implementing such a feature.

So further work on this has been deferred to the next release cycle - which would take a different technical approach based around upstart integration. This requires some discussion during the next UDS.

owh added that some patches have already been prepared for the current init scripts. mathiaz suggested to add them to bugs in LP and forward them to Debian.

===== Dovecot-Postfix Sasl integration =====

ScottK asked about the status of sasl integration. Bug:164837 has a patch for tasksel. The tasksel based solution wasn't accepted. ivoks and mathiaz came up with another solution: create a new binary package from the dovecot source, dovecot-postfix-sasl, which postinst script would modify dovecot.conf to enable the sasl daemon.

mathiaz added that a FFexception should be asked to the release team and warned that it may be declined for hardy. ivoks said he will prepare a debdiff with the new solution and ask for a FFe. Even if the bug is rejected for hardy, it would be ready for integration when Intrepid opens.

===== Postresql installation =====

mathiaz debugged postgresql fail install which is a milestone for beta): the postinst fails due to wrong permissions on /dev/null. Colin and Scott found the issue in udev and are working on a fix.

===== nfs-utils update =====

kees updated nfs-utils for higher krb5 limits.

===== High-priority bugs list =====

kirkland suggested to do a short review of high-priority bugs related to the server team during the server meeting, so that members which bugs require most of the attention.

===== Status reporting =====

mathiaz is still rethinking the process for status reporting within the server team. Now that the weekly meeting minutes don't have a status for each task the server team has been working on, he is thinking about other ways to talk about what's going on in the server team. The server team section of the monthly report is already kept up-to-date on a weekly basis.

mathiaz tossed the idea of using a blog to publish a weekly report of what's going on in the Server Team. nijaba wondered if a weekly report wasn't too often. mathiaz said that a monthly report may be too big as a lot of things are happening within the team. An option would be to start with a report every other week.

===== Beta testing =====

mathiaz reminded that the Beta for Hardy should be released on Thursday and testing is more than welcome. nijaba added some instructions to test the JeOS iso [1]. mathiaz wondered why the JeOS isos weren't added to the iso testing tracker [2]. nijaba said that it will be after beta is released.

nijaba also reminded that everyone willing to help to test pre-released isos should register on the iso testing tracker [2] so that they can be notified when new builds are available for testing.

[1]: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cases/JeOSInstall

[2]: http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/

----
CategoryServerTeam
CategoryTeamReport
