{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

===== Agenda =====

Items we will be discussing:
* Review ACTION points from previous meeting
** ACTION: all to run ISO testing coverage on alpha1
** ACTION: smoser to ensure cloud images make it to the alpha1 iso tracker - Carry over
** ACTION: smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades - Carry over
** ACTION: sommer to present list of sections that need input from server team
* Maverick development (jib)
** Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
** UEC related specs (jib)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
** atop kernel patch
** Bug:587893: linux-image-2.6.34-5-virtual is oversized, results in oversized server ISO
* Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
* Papercuts Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
* Weekly SRU review: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review]]</nowiki> (mathiaz)
* Open Discussion
* Announce next meeting date and time
** Tuesday 2010-06-15 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting

===== Minutes =====

===== Action Points from Previous Meetings =====

* Action: Alpha 1 testing - Alpha1 testing went well, nothing appear to blow up, only had 50% coverage for Alpha1 need more for Alpha2
 [ACTION] ttx to coordinate testing for Alpha 2

* Action: smoser to ensure cloud images make it for Alpha. This was done and tested. Now that slangasek doesnt do release management anymore someone 
   else needs to be trained.
 [ACTION] smoser to train someone on the release team on the cloud image release.

* Action: smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades. Action has been carried over

* Action: sommer to present a list of sections that need input from the server team. No action was taken. Action has been carried over.

===== Maverick Development =====

The burn down chart is looking a little twisted due to the appearance of the UEC blueprints and more. All high specs should be 25% completion and that is not the case. It is
worrying that at least 3 of the high specs have 0/1 items done and no status update. As a reminder please update your status and work items by EOB Monday. With regards to UEC specs a
split has been made for the work between alpha2/3 and onwards and we'd like to make sure this reflects reality

[ACTION] all to keep their specs uptodate with workitems (4-16 hours each) and update their status monday EOB

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh) =====

Carlos remarked that:

1. UEC test rig is ready to test the new SRUs
2. I cannot put Maverick in right now due to bug #588861
3. I am indeed a bit behind, but should catch up fast

After that a whole discussion about SRU processes and sponsorship processes took place revolving around mongodb. 

===== Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen) =====

Jjohansen will look at atop patches and how important they are. Ttx mentioned that 587893 was fixed and that a maverick backport kernel was available. Jjohansen said he would review the patchset, we are concerned with possibe performance degradation and breakage. 

===== Papercuts Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx) =====

There was 14 targets nominated and 4 were fixed.

===== Stable Release Updates =====

No bugs were nominated for SRU backports.

===== Open Discussion =====

None

===== Next Meeting =====

The next meeting will be at Tuesday 2010-06-15 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting.

========= Agree on next meeting date and time =========

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, April 14th at 15:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

===== Log =====
<pre>
[19:00] <jiboumans> #startmeeting
[19:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 13:00. The chair is jiboumans.
[19:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[19:00] <jiboumans> let's get rolling
[19:00] <hggdh> smoser: freestyle...
[19:01] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Review action points
[19:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  Review action points
[19:01] <jiboumans> all to run ISO testing coverage on alpha1
[19:01] <jiboumans> i didn't see any big smoke, so i trust all went well?
[19:01] <ttx> yes, relatively
[19:02] <mathiaz> jiboumans: that's because the wind was blowing in the *other* direction
[19:02] <ttx> for alpha2 we'll coordinate and share the load better
[19:02] <Daviey> hmm.. UEC doesn't work with the current Maverick kernel
[19:02] <SpamapS> Nothing horribly broken, but I found a few things.. lamp-server doesn't install /usr/bin/mysql for instance.
[19:02] <zul> besides its only alpha :)
[19:02] <ttx> we had ~50% tset coverage which is good for alpha1 but not enough for alpha2
[19:02] <jiboumans> it does seem a little spotty this way
[19:03] <jiboumans> ttx, can you take it upon you to coordinate this for alpha2?
[19:03] <ttx> yes.
[19:03] <jiboumans> [ACTION] ttx to coordinate iso testing for alpha2
[19:03] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ttx to coordinate iso testing for alpha2
[19:03] <jiboumans> ok, next
[19:03] <jiboumans> ACTION: smoser to ensure cloud images make it to the alpha1 iso tracker
[19:03] <ttx> that was done.
[19:03] <smoser> done. there, tested, pure perfection
[19:03] <jiboumans> smoser++
[19:04] <ttx> smoser: now that slangasek doesn't do release mgt anymore, you need contacts in the release team
[19:04] <jiboumans> ACTION: smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades
[19:04] <ttx> that could do it as well
[19:04] <smoser> ttx, yes, i need to train someone there. cjwatson just poked me and had me do it. which was fine.
[19:04] <smoser> training is pretty easy, but we should set up someone with an account on the machine and such.
[19:05] <ttx> jiboumans: please action smoser on training someone else in the release team on cloud image release
[19:05] <jiboumans> [ACTION] smoser on training someone else in the release team on cloud image release
[19:05] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser on training someone else in the release team on cloud image release
[19:05] <ttx> jiboumans: that someone can be me if need be
[19:05] <smoser> jiboumans, i'll have more detain on server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades sometime soon.  recent events have somewhat changed the plan there. (server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades)
[19:05] <smoser> detail even
[19:05] <jiboumans> smoser: anything worth updating us on?
[19:06] <smoser> no
[19:06] <jiboumans> ok, carrying over then
[19:06] <jiboumans> [ACTION] smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades
[19:06] <MootBot> ACTION received:  smoser to coordinate with jjohansen and ttx to provide a more detailed work item overview for server-maverick-cloud-kernel-upgrades
[19:06] <jiboumans> ACTION: sommer to present list of sections that need input from server team
[19:07] <jiboumans> sommer: i saw updates to the blueprint. anything to fill us in on during the doc section later or should we postpone till next week?
[19:07] <jiboumans> guess we missed that window
[19:08] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Maverick development (jib)
[19:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Maverick development (jib)
[19:08] <jiboumans> First up: Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
[19:08] <ttx> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-server-maverick-alpha-2.html
[19:09] <ttx> The biurndown chart is a little twisted due to sudden appartition of UEC blueprints and more
[19:09] <ttx> All High specs should be at 25% completion right now and this isn't the case
[19:09] <zul> working on it..
[19:10] <ttx> zul:  yours is at 44%, not bad
[19:10] <jiboumans> worrying that at least 3 of the high spcs have 0/1 items done and no status update
[19:10] <SpamapS> cloud-datastores has been in flux due to upstream's odd position
[19:10] <ttx> SpamapS: and we'll discuss that later today
[19:10] <jiboumans> friendly but final reminder: update the status on monday EOB, keep track of your work items
[19:10] <Daviey> ttx: My % will be a little odd this cycle as 4 out of 7 are related to the weekly update
[19:11] <smoser> i'm making some progress on the ebsmount ones, getting help from Alon of turnkey. we have a reasonable plan there.
[19:11] <ttx> Daviey: did you merge eucalyptus yet ?
[19:11] <jiboumans> all: i want to see these updates reflected in workitems AND your blueprints tatus
[19:12] <ttx> all: if you are under 25% the status line should explain why
[19:12] <Daviey> ttx: Sort of.. i need to borrow you (hopefully tommorrow), to do a team review.. delta is LARGE.
[19:12] <jiboumans> [ACTION] all to keep their specs uptodate with workitems (4-16 hours each) and update their status monday EOB
[19:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  all to keep their specs uptodate with workitems (4-16 hours each) and update their status monday EOB
[19:12] <ttx> in the same vein, your personal completion rate should be ~25% now
[19:13] <Daviey> ttx: If you are happy, then i'd like to upload it tommorrow.
[19:13] <ttx> Daviey: ping me tomorrow so that we spend time on it
[19:13] <Daviey> ttx: Great!
[19:13] <ttx> smoser: are you fully back ?
[19:13] <jiboumans> hggdh, smoser: you both have a large amount of WI but 0/1 completion. do we need to cull specs?
[19:13] <smoser> i'm planning on some half days this week
[19:14] <smoser> as i said above, i'm making reasonableprogress on the ebsmount portions of cloud-init spec.
[19:14] <smoser> the cloud-init portions, i haven't begun.
[19:14] <hggdh> jiboumans: right now, no. I am going thru them and jaguar
[19:14] <smoser> it probably wouldn't be a bad idea to adjust some of those... but i really do want to get them in.
[19:15] <jiboumans> hggdh, smoser: then please update your blueprints accordingly. 0% progress after 2 weeks of dev is not acceptable.
[19:15] <smoser> fwiw, i'm not at 0%
[19:15] <smoser> 6%
[19:15] <ttx> as a rule of thumb, if the work items do not reflect work that you've done... then you should rewrite the work items
[19:15] <ttx> those are work units, not milestones.
[19:15] <jiboumans> smoser: you're not focussing on the essential part of my message
[19:15] <jiboumans> moving on
[19:16] <jiboumans> UEC related specs (jib)
[19:16] <hallyn> (is this a bad time to ask a pragmatic q?)
[19:16] <ttx> hallyn: never
[19:17] <ttx> (never a bad time to ask a q)
[19:17] <hallyn> ok i'm testing an updated qemu-kvm in my personal ppa.  I obv don't have write access to real ppas yet.  How should I (a) go about working it up into maverick archive, and (b) account for 'done' in blueprint?
[19:17] <jiboumans> daviey, ccheney, hallyn, hggdh: please review the blueprints. A split has been made for the work between alpha2/3 and onwards and we'd like to make sure this reflects reality
[19:17] <jiboumans> as dustin is on leave this week, we rely on you to make sure it's accurate
[19:17] <ttx> feel free to ping me if you need help in that exercise
[19:18] <hallyn> ok thx
[19:18] <ttx> hallyn: you need to ask for sponsoring
[19:18] <jiboumans> ttx, all, anything else on the maverick alpha2 work?
[19:18] <ttx> hallyn: ping me or mathiaz off-meeting and we'll explain that to you.
[19:18] <mathiaz> hallyn: right - I can help you out
[19:18] <hallyn> ttx: ok
[19:18] <ttx> jiboumans: no
[19:19] <jiboumans> alright, next topic:
[19:19] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the QA Team (hggdh)
[19:19] <mathiaz> hallyn: it will be easier than ttx as we're in the same timezone
[19:19] <hggdh> 1. UEC test rig is ready to test the new SRUs
[19:19] <hggdh> 2. I cannot put Maverick in right now due to bug #588861
[19:19] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 588861 in linux (Ubuntu) "Instances block in pending state, and don't start" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/588861
[19:20] <hggdh> 3. I am indeed a bit behind, but should catch up fast
[19:20] <mathiaz> hggdh: great
[19:20] <mathiaz> hggdh: the 30.2 eucalytpus sru has been accepted earlier today
[19:20] <SpamapS> A user asked to have bug #589566 SRU'd into lucid as the mongodb people have suggested that 1.2 is not really fit for usage anymore. Do we do that for universe packages?
[19:20] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 589566 in mongodb (Ubuntu) "Please merge mongodb 1.4.3-1 (universe) from Debian unstable (main)" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/589566
[19:20] <mathiaz> hggdh: so helping out in verifiying eucalyptus in -proposed would be helpful
[19:21] <hggdh> mathiaz: indeed, and this is my intention
[19:21] <mathiaz> hggdh: great - thanks
[19:21] <ttx> SpamapS: no we don't
[19:21] <mathiaz> SpamapS: probably not
[19:21] <SpamapS> what about backports?
[19:21] <mathiaz> SpamapS: yes - that would be the best option
[19:21] <jiboumans> hggdh, Daviey : i see that bug is currently unassigned; do you need help in getting it assigned or is it on track?
[19:21] <mathiaz> SpamapS: unless mongodb is *completly* broken in the lucid
[19:22] <SpamapS> Also I need to have my merge/sync bugs for alpha2 set to a higher importance I think.. have not gotten any attention from sponsors, I'm guessing because the importance is undecided.
[19:22] <Daviey> jiboumans: Hmm.. it's really a kernel issue.. i spoke with them yesterday, and they pretty much said await rc2
[19:22] <ttx> SpamapS: no, importance should be wishlist for those
[19:22] <hggdh> jiboumans: Daviey is better poised to answer
[19:22] <jiboumans> Daviey: you mean alpha2's kernel?
[19:22] <mathiaz> SpamapS: hm - I'd rather say it's a lack of sponsorship manpower
[19:22] <ttx> SpamapS: sync processing is a little slow these days
[19:23] <Daviey> jiboumans: although, some recent updates have asked for triaging information.. but i'll be fixing the underlying issue - so it's not assigned
[19:23] <ttx> SpamapS: for merge sponsoring, don't hesitate to ping one of us
[19:23] <mathiaz> ttx: I think SpamapS is blocked on getting *sponsored*
[19:23] <Daviey> jiboumans: no, upstream kernel.org rc2
[19:23] <jiboumans> Daviey: ah, thanks for clarifying
[19:23] <ttx> mathiaz: ah, sync acking, yes
[19:24] <SpamapS> I've not really done all the steps for getting developer status yet, but I have it on my personal todo list for the week.
[19:24] <mathiaz> SpamapS: hm - we should probably talk about that after the meeting
[19:24] <SpamapS> agreed.
[19:24] <mathiaz> [ACTION] mathiaz to sync up with SpamapS about sponsorship
[19:24] <mathiaz> jiboumans: ^^
[19:25] <jiboumans> hggdh: thanks for that update. any questions for QA?
[19:25] <jiboumans> [ACTION] mathiaz to sync up with SpamapS about sponsorship
[19:25] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to sync up with SpamapS about sponsorship
[19:25] <ttx> maybe keep random questions for "open discussion" at the end
[19:25] <jiboumans> moving on:
[19:25] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:25] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly Updates & Questions for the Kernel Team (jjohansen)
[19:25] <ttx> so that we don't mix discussions.
[19:26] <ttx> jjohansen: got two for you :)
[19:26] <jjohansen> well I took a look at the atop patches, how important are they
[19:26] <ttx> bug 587893 was fixed
[19:26] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 587893 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "linux-image-2.6.34-5-virtual is oversized, results in oversized server ISO" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/587893
[19:26] <ttx> jjohansen: as in: "how bady do we want them ?"
[19:26] <mathiaz> jjohansen: is there a ppa to run the maverick-backport to lucid?
[19:26] <jjohansen> yes
[19:26] <ttx> badly
[19:27] <ttx> jjohansen: how disruptive are the patches ?
[19:27] <jjohansen> mathiaz: yes to how badly, not ppa
[19:27] <mathiaz> jjohansen: :)
[19:27] <ttx> jjohansen: I think atop is a matter of "if we can do it, we should"
[19:27] <ttx> jjohansen: jib would confirm
[19:27]  * jiboumans confirms
[19:27] <ttx> I wouldn't risk anything for it.
[19:27] <Daviey> jjohansen: Any news on 2.6.35-rc2? :)
[19:28] <jjohansen> okay, I'll present them to the kernel team as such
[19:28] <jiboumans> jjohansen: you said you took a look at the patchset; what's your opinion on it?
[19:28] <jjohansen> Daviey: rc2 rebase should be uploaded today, so kernels should be out by the end of the week
[19:28] <Daviey> jjohansen: That is great news, thanks.
[19:28] <jjohansen> jiboumans: not a fan but it isn't horrible
[19:29] <ttx> jiboumans: we shoudl assess how much usable atop is without that patch
[19:29] <jjohansen> ttx: what about bug #587893
[19:29] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 587893 in linux (Ubuntu Maverick) "linux-image-2.6.34-5-virtual is oversized, results in oversized server ISO" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/587893
[19:29] <ttx> jjohansen: I think it's fixed now
[19:29] <jiboumans> jjohansen: specifically concerned about possible breakage or performance degradation
[19:29]  * ttx checks the daily
[19:30] <ttx> yesterdays daily is below limits so I suspect the fix landed
[19:30] <jjohansen> ttx: yes it should be "fixed", there are plans to further trim the virtual kernel so that it is only what is needed by kvm/ec2 so it should be getting smaller
[19:31] <ttx> jjohansen: ok, kudos to the kernel team
[19:31] <jiboumans> jjohansen++, kernel team++
[19:31] <ttx> that's all from me
[19:31] <jiboumans> any other questions for the kernel team?
[19:31] <jiboumans> as sommer's not available, we'll skip this weeks Weekly Updates & Questions for the Documentation Team (sommer)
[19:31] <mathiaz> jjohansen: maverick-backport PPA?
[19:32] <smoser> jjohansen, i'm for being careful on shrinking -virtual
[19:32] <smoser> there are already lots of things missing that people legitimately want in "virtual" machines.
[19:32] <smoser> from fuzzy memory, i think ipv6 is missing
[19:32] <jjohansen> mathiaz: sorry I'm not sure on the status of that I will have to check and get back to you
[19:32] <mathiaz> jjohansen: ok - thanks
[19:33] <jiboumans> [ACTION] jjohansen to check on status of backported kernel for lucid
[19:33] <MootBot> ACTION received:  jjohansen to check on status of backported kernel for lucid
[19:33] <jjohansen> smoser: yes we need to be careful, but there are certainly drivers that can be disabled
[19:33] <smoser> yes.
[19:33] <smoser> drivers definitely
[19:33] <jiboumans> alright, moving on:
[19:33] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Papercuts Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
[19:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  Papercuts Alpha2 subcycle status (ttx)
[19:33] <ttx> https://launchpad.net/server-papercuts/+milestone/maverick-alpha-2
[19:33] <mathiaz> smoser: is there a specific tag/package name that is used to track virtual bugs?
[19:34] <ttx> 4 fixed / 14 targets
[19:34] <smoser> not that im aware of, but i think, correctly, they owould hyave the binary package hint  set, is that correct ?
[19:34] <ttx> Remember everyone should take 1-3 bugs in that list. That includes you, mathiaz :P
[19:34] <mathiaz> ttx: :)
[19:34]  * smoser is fuzzy on how all that works in launchpad
[19:34] <ttx> mathiaz: and now the choice is limited :P
[19:34] <jiboumans> ttx: i trust you'll assign if necessary?
[19:34] <mathiaz> ttx: well - that's my fault then
[19:35] <SpamapS> ttx: I have patched 2, but again, awaiting sponsorship
[19:35] <ttx> yes, I'll soon start being nasty
[19:35] <ttx> SpamapS: ack, I think  chuck was looking into some of those
[19:36] <ttx> that's all, we are on track.
[19:36] <jiboumans> thanks ttx
[19:36] <SpamapS> ttx: I'll cover it w/ mathiaz in our post meeting talk about sponsorship.
[19:36] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[19:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Weekly SRU review: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/KnowledgeBase#SRU%20weekly%20review (mathiaz)
[19:36]  * mathiaz opens the links
[19:36] <zul> for the curious: v2 http://people.canonical.com/~chucks/SRUTracker/
[19:36]  * SpamapS misses the red
[19:37] <zul> dates are not calculated yet
[19:37] <mathiaz> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:37] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ubuntu-server-team/fixedbugs.ubuntu-server.latest.html
[19:37] <zul> the minicom one should be nominated
[19:37] <mathiaz> ^^ anything worth SRUing in the bugs fixed last week?
[19:37] <zul> who the hell still uses minicom btw ;)
[19:38] <ttx> bug 585911 !
[19:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 585911 in installation-guide (Ubuntu) "preseed documentation: partman/confirm_write_new_label now named partman-partitioning/confirm_write_new_label" [Medium,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/585911
[19:38] <mathiaz> zul: it already is nominated
[19:38] <ttx> beh
[19:38] <zul> mathiaz: ah ok
[19:38] <ttx> bug 585911
[19:39] <mathiaz> hm  - anything else SRU worth?
[19:40] <SpamapS> 280421 seems like it would be hard to work around if you need ethtool
[19:40] <SpamapS> bug 280421 I mean
[19:40] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 280421 in Ubuntu Server papercuts "ethtool not available in post-ifup script" [Low,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/280421
[19:40] <ttx> I wouldn't move it around in a SRU
[19:40] <SpamapS> symlink to preserve previous location?
[19:41] <zul> i wouldnt SRU that one
[19:41] <mathiaz> would that fit in a criteria outlined in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates?
[19:41] <mathiaz> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#When
[19:42] <mathiaz> ^^ is the list of critiria
[19:42] <SpamapS> ty.. no its not high impact, just annoying. :)
[19:42] <hggdh> I have one question on SRU
[19:42] <mathiaz> hggdh: shoot
[19:43] <hggdh> the samba apport hook to disable reporting if smb.conf is missing -- is it worthy of a SRU?
[19:43] <mathiaz> would that fit in a criteria outlined in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates#When?
[19:43] <hggdh> mathiaz: no, not at all. But it may inhibit born-invalid bugs
[19:44] <mathiaz> hggdh: no, not at all -> not SRU worthy
[19:44] <hggdh> mathiaz: K, good enough
[19:44] <Daviey> (although, something needs fixing on samba.. it has a massive share of the server bug count)
[19:44] <mathiaz> that's all for the SRU review from me - anything else to add?
[19:45] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Open Discussion
[19:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Discussion
[19:45] <jiboumans> thanks mathiaz
[19:45] <mathiaz> Daviey: we've discussed that at UDS
[19:45] <ttx> Daviey: what need to be fixed is documentation, and users. Most of the bugs are invalid, they just take time to debunk
[19:45] <mathiaz> Daviey: IIRC the decision was that the server team would keep triaging them
[19:46] <mathiaz> ttx: are you suggesting a user SRU?
[19:46] <jiboumans> could we? :)
[19:46] <Daviey> ^^ Which could mean making sure our apport support is kept awesome.  It could be worth passing by the SRU team for comment.
[19:46] <ttx> mathiaz: the long-term fix is to have a simpler software to handle SMB folder sharing and SMB client
[19:47] <ttx> samba is a complex beast, an users have all sorts of wrong expectations about it
[19:47] <mathiaz> ttx: right - it may worth having a session with the desktop team about that issue at the next UDS
[19:47] <jiboumans> agreed
[19:47] <mathiaz> ttx: for the time being we're kind of stuck :/
[19:47] <Daviey> But if we have great apport hooks on the bugs, we can quickly triage them as not bugs.
[19:47] <jiboumans> it's firmly on my radar though
[19:47] <ttx> mathiaz: yep
[19:47] <hggdh> Daviey: +1
[19:48] <jiboumans> mathiaz: you reckon there'd be mileage in that?
[19:48] <mathiaz> Daviey: right - and we're doing that for maverick
[19:48] <jiboumans> i do like the idea of having that in the LTS most people run
[19:48] <mathiaz> jiboumans: oh yes - I think so
[19:48] <ttx> Daviey: if you look at bug 566560
[19:48] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 566560 in samba (Ubuntu) "samba server requires smbpasswd -a user constantly" [Medium,Invalid] https://launchpad.net/bugs/566560
[19:48] <ttx> Daviey: apport hooks won't help debunking it
[19:48] <SpamapS> Point of order.. I've seen a lot of questions on ubuntu-server go unanswered ... not even a "can you file a bug report for that" response or "did you search for a bug report?" type of response. Should we be going out of our way to answer questions on the list?
[19:48] <mathiaz> jiboumans: you mean what - apport hooks backported to LTS?
[19:48] <Daviey> mathiaz: I'm refering to the "not quite" SRU for the LTS.
[19:48] <SpamapS> (I mean the mailing list not #ubuntu-server)
[19:48] <ttx> Daviey: it just takes time to understand wtf the user has put himself into
[19:49] <SpamapS> and by a lot I mean 2.. :P
[19:49] <ttx> Daviey: in order to dismiss it as 'not a bug'
[19:49] <hggdh> still. Apport hooks should be a special case on SRUs
[19:49] <jiboumans> mathiaz: i mean specifically the apport hook for samba in this case
[19:49] <mathiaz> hggdh: well - IIRC apport is disable on stable releases
[19:49]  * hggdh facepalms
[19:49] <jiboumans> interesting..
[19:50] <Daviey> mathiaz: "ubuntu-bug samba" etc should still catch it?
[19:50] <jiboumans> mathiaz, can i ask you to check up on this ?
[19:50] <mathiaz> Daviey: yes - ubuntu-bug is working
[19:50] <Daviey> So i can still see merit. :)
[19:50] <mathiaz> it's the automation part that is disabled
[19:50] <mathiaz> by default on releases apport won't automatically pop-up IIRC
[19:50] <jiboumans> [ACTION] mathiaz to check if providing an updated apport hook to samba in lucid is useful and possible to keep the invalid bug reports down
[19:50] <MootBot> ACTION received:  mathiaz to check if providing an updated apport hook to samba in lucid is useful and possible to keep the invalid bug reports down
[19:51] <mathiaz> it's one of the last thing done in the release cycle
[19:51] <jiboumans> SpamapS: you mean the mailinglist right?
[19:51] <mathiaz> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/1.13.3-0ubuntu2
[19:51] <jiboumans> SpamapS: if you have an answer, responding is definitely encouraged. even if that answer is 'please file a bug'
[19:51] <mathiaz>   * etc/default/apport: Disable Apport for the final release.
[19:51] <SpamapS> jiboumans: yes I do. I'm just not sure of what is expected on the list.
[19:52] <ttx> SpamapS: some people have a history of being difficult so people just avoid answering them.
[19:52] <SpamapS> just today somebody had a failed install onto software RAID.. I didn't see any responses.
[19:52] <ttx> SpamapS: doesn't mean we shouldn't :)
[19:52] <jiboumans> in fact, we should
[19:53] <SpamapS> I figured the best response would be to suggest they file a bug but I'm not sure against what or what link to feed them to do that.
[19:53] <ttx> Could someone point me to the right direction? > File a bug ?
[19:53] <SpamapS> Figure you guys know more than I.
[19:53] <jiboumans> 'file a bug, heres the type of info we would need [LINK]'
[19:54] <jiboumans> alterantely, if you know about software raids, ask for the diagnostics and give an answer on list. it's a community help channel so there's more people reading than just the canonical employees
[19:54] <ttx> If the system is running, run ubuntu-bug FOO
[19:54] <SpamapS> Is it acceptable to file a bug for them and respond with a link to it suggesting they add themselves?
[19:54] <ttx> If not (like in this case: use this link: ...
[19:54] <mathiaz> SpamapS: that's another option
[19:54] <jiboumans> any other topics to discuss?
[19:55] <mathiaz> SpamapS: for that specific use case I'd reply on the ml
[19:55] <ttx> SpamapS: that confuses the "original reporter"
[19:55] <Daviey> mathiaz: Any news on the packageset archive access?
[19:55] <mathiaz> SpamapS: asking for more information about the failure
[19:55] <mathiaz> SpamapS: I wouldn't open a bug right away
[19:55] <ttx> SpamapS: who is used to determine "incomplete with a response" type of status
[19:55] <ttx> and other things
[19:55] <jjohansen> the current Lucid backport kernel PPA is at  http://ppa.launchpad.net/kernel-ppa/ppa/ubuntu/
[19:56] <ttx> SpamapS: so I wouldn't file a bug on behalf of someone else
[19:56] <mathiaz> Daviey: need to create a team - and populate it with relevant people
[19:56] <mathiaz> jjohansen: thanks
[19:56] <Daviey> mathiaz: Yup.. Is that on your todo?
[19:56] <mathiaz> Daviey: yes :)
[19:56] <Daviey> \o/
[19:57] <jiboumans> mathiaz++
[19:57] <jiboumans> any final topic?
[19:57] <jiboumans> going once...
[19:57] <Daviey>  /gone
[19:57] <SpamapS> I like cheese...
[19:57] <jiboumans> [TOPIC] Announce next meeting date and time
[19:57] <jiboumans> Tuesday 2010-06-15 at 1800 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
[19:57] <MootBot> New Topic:  Announce next meeting date and time
[19:57] <jiboumans> there you have it folks, thanks all for attending!
[19:57] <jiboumans> #endmeeting

}}
