{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

These are questions to help you test:

* Did the installer complete without errors?
* Has the CPU layout been detected correctly?
** Does <code>/proc/cpuinfo</code> show what you expect?
  <pre>
cat /proc/cpuinfo</pre>
** When HT is enabled, your HT processors should show up twice. 
** Dual-core processors should show up twice.
** Dual-core HT processors should show up four times.
* Has the memory layout been detected correctly?
** Look at the 'total' column, 'Mem:' row of <code>free</code>. Does this number equal the actual amount of RAM in the machine?
  <pre>
free</pre>
* Has the physical hard drive layout been detected correctly?
** You should be able to notice this in the installer (on an installed machine, peruse dmesg(8) output or look at 'ls /dev/hd*' or 'ls /dev/sd*' for SCSI drives)
  <pre>
dmesg
ls /dev/hd*
ls /dev/sh*</pre>
** If the server supports hot-swappable hard drives, after the machine boots fully, attempt to hot-swap a drive. Did you encounter any problems? Is the machine still reporting the correct drive layout?

  This is generally only applicable if you're using Linux's software RAID. With hardware RAID, drive swapping should generally be transparent to the underlying OS.
* Does connecting a serial console work as expected?
* Have any RAID and storage controllers been detected correctly?
** Look at lspci(8) output, and see if your RAID and/or storage controllers are present
  <pre>
lspci</pre>
* Have all the NICs been detected correctly?
** Take a look at <code>dmesg|grep eth</code> and <code>ip addr</code> output.
  <pre>
dmesg|grep eth
ip addr</pre>

