{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:servercloud-p-hdp-hadoop
* '''Created''': 2011-10-24
* '''Contributors''': James Page
* '''Packages affected''': New Packaging

=== Summary ===

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu now features Apache Hadoop - a software platform that lets one easily write and run applications that process vast amounts of data.

=== Rationale ===

Apache Hadoop has gained widespread adoption; the various flavours of Hadoop appear to be consolidating and Cloudera have transferred a number of their Hadoop related projects to Apache including Bigtop (the Cloudera packaging for Redhat, Debian and SuSE).

Packaging Hadoop for Ubuntu would help support developing a set of rock solid Juju charms for Hadoop by providing a well integrated version of the packaging for Ubuntu.

Collaboration with Apache Bigtop would also potentially help support packaging the wider family of Hadoop related projects.

=== User stories ===

Marcos has been tasked with setting up a new Hadoop compute cluster to support log analysis of this companies website activity; He is able to quickly and easily deploy Apache Hadoop on his companies internal Cloud using Juju with packages that come directly from the Canonical partner archive (as mandated by his companies IT policy).

Natalie wants to setup a Hadoop cluster; she's not able to use Juju and a public cloud due to the existing infrastructure policies and design in place at her organisation but she is able to deploy the required packages directly from the Canonical partner archive.

=== Assumptions ===

* Ubuntu will package Apache Hadoop (rather than one of the various variants).
* Projects that will be packaged: hadoop, hbase, hive, hcatalog, pig, zookeeper.
* Packaging will align to Apache Bigtop (based on the most popular upstream packaging)
* Packaging will focus on the most recent stable release of Hadoop.
* Configuration methods should take into account integration with configuration management tools such as Puppet and Chef
* Native integrations must be part of the packaging.
* Packages will target the Canonical Partner archive for this release.

=== Obsolete Assumptions ===

* The majority of Java dependencies can be fulfilled through what is already in the archive (see <nowiki>[[attachment:hadoop-dependency-report.tar.gz]]</nowiki>)
** kfs - this can be excluded to disable this feature but does not look like that much work to package.
** Apache ftpserver would be required to enable smoke testing - again looks OK to package.
* Focus will be on a solid Hadoop core with contrib packages if time permits.
** Most dependencies are already in the archive apart from thrift.
* Packages will target universe for this release.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
