{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-maverick-cloud-libs
* '''Created''': 2010-05-20
* '''Contributors''': Scott Moser
* '''Packages affected''': TBD

=== Summary ===
Package new cloud libraries and update existing ones

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu 10.10 contains new and updated libraries for interacting with various cloud APIs.  The newly added packages are java libraries typica and jets3kil.

=== Rationale ===

We want Ubuntu to be the obvious choice for working with "The cloud".  In order to realize that we need to have a cloud api libraries that are relevant, span multiple languages and are up to date.

=== User stories ===

* Jimmy wants to develop an application to control his use of AWS S3.  He wants to write the application in Java and wants to utilize existing libraries to make his job easier.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Implementation ===

* Package <nowiki>[[https://jets3t.dev.java.net/|jets3t]]</nowiki>
* Package <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/typica/|typica]]</nowiki>
* Test jets3t to verify functionality
* Test typica to verify functionality
* Verify other cloud libs are up to date
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-boto|python-boto]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/right-aws|right-aws]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/right-http-connection|right-http-connection]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/txaws|txaws]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cloudfusion|cloudfusion]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcloud|libcloud]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libamazon-sqs-simple-perl|libamazon-sqs-simple-perl]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnet-amazon-s3-perl |libnet-amazon-s3-perl ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libamazon-sqs-simple-perl|libamazon-sqs-simple-perl]]</nowiki>
* Update above list if needed

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

'''TODO'''
It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* In the Lucid spec <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-aws-client-libraries|aws-client-libraries]]</nowiki>, Mathias created a very useful chart of available libraries and their function at <nowiki>[[AWSClientLibraries]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
More platform? Java, ruby.

More services?

==== AWS world ====

Review and update existing libraries:
 - cloudfusion (php)
 - python-boto (python)
 - libnet-amazon-* (perl)
 - libright-aws-ruby (ruby)

Chart from lucid: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AWSClientLibraries

Extend platform coverage:
 - Java: typica + jets3kil

Other services to look at: 
 - elastic load balancing (from amazon)

==== Other clouds ====

* http://wiki.apache.org/incubator/DeltacloudProposal
   Another layer - based on http REST service.
   Goal: Broker?
* libcloud http://incubator.apache.org/libcloud/
   Library: support a lot of cloud API.
   Low hanging fruit - already packaged.
   (python library).
* jcloud (java library).
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
