{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a 1980 born half-Swiss, half-Swedish happy human. I spent my formative years in Sweden but moved to Switzerland when I was 7 years old and later at 25 to Spain. These moves helped me develop my interest for different languages, and today I speak five fluently.
- personal route to Freesoftware,
- a few work/social experience -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sakrecoer]]</nowiki> 
=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| launchpad-ID
| https://launchpad.net/~sakrecoer
|-
| IRC
| sakrecoer on freenode
|-
| jabber
| sakrecoer@jabber.org
|-
| Website
| http://set.hallstrom.ch
|}

=== Contributions ===

Write your contributions here.
Write your goals.

=== Future Goals ===

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Set is one of the most positive additions to the Ubuntu and the Ubuntu Studio community that I have seen in years. He's greatly active with Ubuntu Studio development (even before becoming the project leader, which was quite recently), and has a very open and welcoming attitude towards people, which is IMO one of the most important traits in any active community member. <<BR>>
So, I highly recommend for him to become a Ubuntu member. <<BR>>
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:zequence]]</nowiki> 