{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Seth Forshee, apply for DKMS packageset upload rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Seth Forshee
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sforshee
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SethForshee
|}

I am applying because I am heavily involved with preparing new upstream kernels for Ubuntu. This work includes compatibility updates for the various DKMS modules in Ubuntu, both in the development series and in LTS releases. I would like to be able to sponsor these uploads in order to reduce delays in getting sponsorship and to reduce the burden on other sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I'm a software engineer who has worked on the Ubuntu Kernel Team since 2011.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu with the 5.04 release after trying a number of other distros over the years, and since that time Ubuntu has been my distro of choice.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The following is a list of my sponsored DKMS package uploads.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Date'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution'''
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2013-08-04 10:41
| Tim Gardner
| ndiswrapper
| 1.58-1ubuntu1
| saucy
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-01-30 15:41
| Tim Gardner
| zfs-linux
| 0.6.5.8-0ubuntu9
| zesty
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-02-14 16:03
| Tim Gardner
| virtualbox
| 5.1.14-dfsg-1ubuntu1
| zesty
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-02-14 19:57
| Tim Gardner
| openafs
| 1.6.20-2ubuntu1
| zesty
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-02-21 15:04
| Tim Gardner
| lttng-modules
| 2.9.0-1ubuntu1
| zesty
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-06-28 20:55
| Andy Whitcroft
| dahdi-linux
| 1:2.11.1~dfsg-1ubuntu2
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-07-10 16:17
| Andy Whitcroft
| openafs
| 1.6.20-2ubuntu2
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-07-10 19:47
| Andy Whitcroft
| rtl8812au
| 4.3.8.12175.20140902+dfsg-0ubuntu6
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-07-28 13:36
| Andy Whitcroft
| langford
| 0.0.20130228-5ubuntu1
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-07-28 16:16
| Andy Whitcroft
| rtl8812au
| 4.3.8.12175.20140902+dfsg-0ubuntu7
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-07-28 16:49
| Andy Whitcroft
| xtables-addons
| 2.12-0.1ubuntu1
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-08-09 13:12
| Andy Whitcroft
| ktap
| 0.4+git20160427-1ubuntu3
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-08-09 17:50
| Andy Whitcroft
| dahdi-linux
| 1:2.11.1~dfsg-1ubuntu3
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-08-16 15:34
| Andy Whitcroft
| ndiswrapper
| 1.60-4ubuntu1
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-08-16 15:47
| Andy Whitcroft
| openafs
| 1.6.21-1ubuntu1
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-08-24 18:00
| Nish Aravamudan
| openafs
| 1.6.21-2ubuntu1
| artful
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-11-08 15:32
| Andy Whitcroft
| openafs
| 1.6.21-3ubuntu1
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-11-08 19:55
| Alberto Milone
| nvidia-graphics-drivers-304
| 304.137-0ubuntu2
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-11-08 20:50
| Alberto Milone
| nvidia-graphics-drivers-340
| 340.104-0ubuntu3
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-11-14 16:40
| Andy Whitcroft
| xtables-addons
| 2.12-0.1ubuntu2
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-11-14 17:21
| Andy Whitcroft
| lttng-modules
| 2.9.0-1ubuntu4
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2018-02-02 15:52
| Stéphane Graber
| adv-17v35x
| 5.0.3.0-1ubuntu1
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2018-05-25 14:30
| Andy Whitcroft
| dm-writeboost
| 2.2.8-1ubuntu3
| cosmic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2018-06-12 13:11
| Tyler Hicks
| oss4
| 4.2-build2010-5ubuntu3
| cosmic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2018-06-13 12:16
| Tyler Hicks
| sysdig
| 0.21.0-1ubuntu1
| cosmic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2018-06-20 16:05
| Alberto Milone
| lttng-modules
| 2.10.5-1ubuntu2
| cosmic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2018-08-16 20:06
| Tyler Hicks
| lttng-modules
| 2.10.5-1ubuntu4
| cosmic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-02-14 16:05
| Tyler Hicks
| sysdig
| 0.24.1-1ubuntu2
| disco
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-03-06 14:27
| Alberto Milone
| gost-crypto
| 0.3-1ubuntu1
| disco
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-03-06 16:06
| Alberto Milone
| evdi
| 1.5.1+dfsg-1ubuntu1
| disco
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-03-06 17:39
| Alberto Milone
| sl-modem
| 2.9.11~20110321-15ubuntu1
| disco
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-06-20 12:39
| Timo Aaltonen
| lttng-modules
| 2.10.8-1ubuntu2
| eoan
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-06-25 15:56
| Andy Whitcroft
| sysdig
| 0.24.1-1ubuntu3
| eoan
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-07-19 18:35
| Gianfranco Costamagna
| dkms
| 2.7.1-1ubuntu2
| eoan
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-08-30 05:45
| Tyler Hicks
| ndiswrapper
| 1.60-8ubuntu1
| eoan
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-08-30 14:14
| Tyler Hicks
| nat-rtsp
| 0.7+4.18-0.1ubuntu1
| eoan
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2019-09-04 14:31
| Tyler Hicks
| ddcci-driver-linux
| 0.3.2-2ubuntu2
| eoan
|}

=== Areas of work ===
My primary focus has been getting new upstream kernel versions into Ubuntu, fixing up packages impacted by these kernel updates, and maintenance of the linux-firmware package. I am also occasionally involved in bug fixes for stable series kernels and uploading kernel SRUs.

=== Things I could do better ===
My packaging experience is almost entirely with kernel or kernel-adjacent packages. I believe my overall knowledge would benefit from working on more diverse types of package.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andy Whitcroft (~apw) ===

==== General feedback ====

I have worked with Seth Forshee on kernel packages for a number of years.
He has always shown a clear understanding of risk from his actions and care
when at the ends of his knowledge.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I have sponsored a couple of dkms package and further reviewed a number
of them on the SRU queue.  His packages have proved good quality and
where issues found he has always proven responsive to feedback.

==== Overall ====

I wholeheartedly recommend him for upload rights to the DKMS packageset.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=NmDu
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ===
==== General feedback ====

Seth has already listed some of the packages I sponsored for him in the above section.

The quality of his work is always impeccable, and I trust Seth with any dkms packaging work.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Here are some examples of our work together:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;"> 2017-11-08 19:55
| Alberto Milone
| Seth Forshee
| nvidia-graphics-drivers-304
| 304.137-0ubuntu2
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;">2017-11-08 20:50
| Alberto Milone
| Seth Forshee
| nvidia-graphics-drivers-340
| 340.104-0ubuntu3
| bionic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;">2018-06-20 16:05
| Alberto Milone
| Seth Forshee
| lttng-modules
| 2.10.5-1ubuntu2
| cosmic
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;">2019-03-06 14:27
| Alberto Milone
| Seth Forshee
| gost-crypto
| 0.3-1ubuntu1
| disco
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;">2019-03-06 16:06
| Alberto Milone
| Seth Forshee
| evdi
| 1.5.1+dfsg-1ubuntu1
| disco
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #f1f1ed;">2019-03-06 17:39
| Alberto Milone
| Seth Forshee
| sl-modem
| 2.9.11~20110321-15ubuntu1
| disco
|}

==== Overall ====

My trusting Seth's work on the NVIDIA drivers, which I maintain and am very particular about, is probably the biggest endorsement I can give this application.

=== Tyler Hicks (tyhicks) ===
==== General feedback ====

Seth and I have worked together on many Ubuntu and Linux Kernel tasks. From 
triaging reported kernel security issues and fixing the flaw(s) to developing
new features to landing DKMS uploads in Ubuntu to allow for new upstream kernel
versions to enter the archive, I have a wide range of experience working with
Seth.

I have the utmost trust in Seth. He's attentive to detail, moves carefully
while making distro level changes, and has a breadth of kernel skills and knowledge.

DKMS upload rights would allow him to be more effective in his Ubuntu kernel
work. I am a strong advocate for Seth obtaining DKMS upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

As Seth mentioned above in his application, I've sponsored 7 of his DKMS
uploads. I've reviewed many kernel patches as well as changes to Ubuntu Kernel
Team utilities that he's authored. I've benefited greatly from his work in
bringing new upstream kernel versions into Ubuntu development releases.

As this application is for DKMS upload rights, I'll focus on those experiences.
What I remember most from the DKMS uploads I've sponsored from Seth is that he
was always open to feedback and then remembered to incorporate that feedback in
future uploads that he prepared.

For example, after I first explained why it was important to me to only sponsor
uploads that included patches containing proper DEP-3 patch tags and were
submitted to the corresponding upstream project, he always made sure to perform 
those two tasks before asking me to sponsor any other uploads.

Seth's skills in Linux kernel development make him more than suited to develop patches against DKMS packages, test the changes, and upload them to the Ubuntu archive.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

My only area of improvement suggestion for Seth is that he should work towards
becoming an Ubuntu Core Dev. He's headed in the right direction with this
upload rights application.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
