{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Commandline ===

Run the following:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install pptp-linux
</pre>

make pptpvpn   file:
<pre>
function routeadd {
   route add -host 61.xxx.xxx.xxx dev ppp0
   route add -host 62.xxx.xxx.xxx dev ppp0
   route add -host 63.xxx.xxx.xxx dev ppp0
}
function makepptp {
   echo pty \"pptp VPN.SERVER.COM --nolaunchpppd\" >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
   echo remotename PPTP >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
   echo require-mppe-128 >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
   echo file /etc/ppp/options.pptp >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
   echo ipparam pptpvpn >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
pppd call pptpvpn &
}
if [ -a /etc/ppp/chap-secrets ];
		then
		rm /etc/ppp/chap-secrets
	echo $1 PPTP $2 '*' >> /etc/ppp/chap-secrets;
else
	echo $1 PPTP $2 '*' >> /etc/ppp/chap-secrets;
fi

if [ -e /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn ];
	then
	rm /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
	echo name $1 >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;
	makepptp;
	sleep 8;
	routeadd;
else
	echo name $1 >> /etc/ppp/peers/pptpvpn;	
	makepptp;
	sleep 8;
	routeadd;
fi
</pre>
Where,
pty \"pptp VPN.SERVER.COM --nolaunchpppd\"
Specifies that the command script is to be used to communicate rather than a specific terminal device. In this case we are using pptp client to establishes the client side of a Virtual Private Network (VPN) using the Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP). 
VPN.SERVER.COM  is host name (or IP address) for the VPN server

route add -host 63.xxx.xxx.xxx dev ppp0 - this will tell which hosts are on the other side of tunnel. (host name or IP address)

Close and save the file. 
<pre>
chmod +x pptpvpn
</pre>

<pre>
sudo ./pptpvpn username password
</pre>

If everything is went correctly you should be online and ppp0 should be up. Remote server will assign IP address and other routing information

Disconnect PPTP server vpn connection
Simply kill pppd service, enter:
<pre>
killall pppd
</pre>

it will work on any distribution, its just a matter of 
pptp package you will have to install..
