{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Dennis "Seveas" Kaarsemaker has been providing 3rd party packages that for some reason are not accepted into the Ubuntu archive, such as

* New applications, not yet reviewed for Ubuntu
* Backports that require changes
* Slightly modified packages

=== Browsing the repository ===

You can simply browse the repository by going to the homepage of one of the mirrors (see below, click on one of the links in the Mirrors section). The html indexes are a feature of the software I created to build the repository :) If you also want to build a repository, take a look at the bottom of the page for Falcon.

=== Errors when using this repository ===
The packages can be authenticated using gpg, this makes all authentication errors with these packages go away so you should just do it.

<pre>
gpg --keyserver subkeys.pgp.net --recv-keys 1135D466
gpg --export --armor 1135D466 | sudo apt-key add -
</pre>

If you get errors using these packages, please e-mail me. Do '''not''' file bugs against Ubuntu packages.

=== Sources.list entries ===

To use the repository you need to add it to the <code>/etc/apt/sources.list</code> file. This is not hard to do, the lines you need to add look like this:

{{{
deb url-of-repository release-to-use components-to-use 
deb url-of-repository release-to-use components-to-use}}}

* Replace <code>url-of-repository</code> with the url of one of the mirrors (see below).
* Replace <code>release-to-use</code> with
** <code>dapper-seveas</code> if you use Ubuntu 6.06 or 6.06.1 (Dapper Drake)
** <code>edgy-seveas</code> if you use Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft)
** <code>feisty-seveas</code> if you use Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn)
* Replace components-to-use with a list of the components you want to enable. The following sections are available:
The available sections are:
** '''backports''': Several backported packages
** '''custom''': Several packages that are included with Ubuntu, but changed to fit my needs (see the repository indices for details)
** '''drivers''': Updated ATI (fglrx) drivers (dapper only)
** '''extras''': Packages that are not included in Ubuntu
** '''freenx''': The FreeNX remote desktop system
** '''seveas-meta''': An section filled with metapackages
** '''all''': A meta-section, containing all of the above

An example sources.list entry:
{{{
deb http://mirror3.ubuntu.com/ feisty-seveas extras freenx 
deb-src http://mirror3.ubuntu.com/ feisty-seveas extras freenx}}}

=== The mirrors ===

Currently there are 6 mirrors you can use:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://mirror3.ubuntulinux.nl/
|-
| Danish mirror, sponsored by Søren Hansen
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://mirror2.ubuntulinux.nl/
|-
| Australian mirror, sponsored by Peter Lieverdink
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://mirror.ubuntulinux.nl/
|-
| Dutch mirror, sponsored by Niels Roosen
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://seveas.theplayboymansion.net/seveas/
|-
| UK mirror, sponsored by Henri Cook
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://seveas.imbrandon.com/
|-
| US mirror, sponsored by Brandon Holtsclaw
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://free.linux.hp.com/~brett/seveas/freenx/
|-
| US mirror for FreeNX, sponsored by Brett Johnson
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> http://seveas.ubuntulinux.nl/
|-
| Master server, not usable in sources.list but new things show up here first
|}
