{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Scarlett Clark, apply for <upload rights for Kubuntu package(s)>.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Scarlett Clark
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sgclark
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/sgclark
|}

== Who I am ==
''Kubuntu: I started with assisting in the dialog with KDE to move the documentation to the KDE userbase. I did the initial Mediawiki formatting of the documentation on the userbase. I was taught how to package, and I have been a packaging machine ever since. I have packaged KDE Frameworks, Plasma 5, new releases, package requests, debian merges, new packages. I have recently started contributing to fixing/creating automation scripts, and fixing bugs.

== My Ubuntu story ==
=== My involvement ===
Anything that needs to be done, I do it. This includes packaging, bug management, bug fixing, social "spread the word of what we are up to and releases.
=== Areas of work ===
''All of Kubuntu, KDE and recently Debian.''
We have been releasing packages quickly after it is available upstream. I was a part of getting the move for our 
KDE packages to Debian git for closer collaboration and reduce duplicate work with Debian. I have started to really go through our bugs and get the information we need to get them all closed!

=== Things I could do better ===
My goal is to improve my programming skills.

== Plans for the future ==
Getting more involved in the inner core of Kubuntu. More bug busting. 

=== General ===
I plan to continue all of my current efforts and much, much more! I would like to see Kubuntu on more corporate/government desktops as well as everyday users, power users.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''I think there could be better communication between Ubuntu core and Kubuntu. There are key areas we could use some better support from Ubuntu upstream. SDDM comes to mind.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----

=== JonathanRiddell ===
==== General feedback ====
Gave her training in packaging and been uploading most of her packages since then.  She's worked hard and puts a lot into Kubuntu.  The quality of her packaging has improved consistently and I fully support her application to kubuntu-dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
All of KF5 and Plasma 5.  She now does merges and bugfixes too.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
As ever there's always more to learn about packaging but I don't have any specific suggestions.  She renamed qwt to qwt-qt4 recently which I feel is unnecessary so I changed it back.

=== Rick Timmis ===
==== General feedback ====
I remember Scarlett getting invovled with Kubuntu, and she has been a very dedicated and hard working contributor. Out pacing my own development and contributions by a huge amount. Her input has been consistent, and she has added much to Kubuntu with her efforts.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Recently Scarlet has been mentoring me with packaging, and this has been greatly welcomed. It is a testament to her skills and commitment, that she has been very willing to support me, and has answered all my questions clearly, with a warm and welcoming manner.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
My comments are those of a minor contributor in the Kubuntu community, I am afraid, I do not have enough expertise to provide a constructive comment to this section.

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
