{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Rohan Garg, apply for kubuntu-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Rohan Garg
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~rohangarg
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.kubuntu.org/shadeslayer
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a 21 year old student from Gurgaon, India.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I've been using Ubuntu ever since late 2008. I had been ordering Ubuntu CD's even before that via ShipIt, trying it out on every computer that I came across.<<BR>>
I experimented *alot*, broke installs every weekend when I got the time, reinstalling everything from scratch on a 256 Kbps connection and messing up my system come next
weekend. Ah, the glorious days of the early KDE 4.0 releases ... <<BR>>
One day I accidentally wandered into #kubuntu-devel and started helping out, and that's where it all began.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Updating KDE Telepathy and getting it into the archives
* Mediating between upstream KDE projects and Kubuntu to get features that we required in Kubuntu and/or fixing bugs myself at times 
* Successfully resurrecting Project Neon together with Philip and Michal and maintaining it.
* Merging KDE packages from debian.
* Getting upstream copyrights fixed during 4.7 split as most upstream maintainers forgot to fix that during the git move.
* Getting twitter API keys replaced in choqok since they posed a security risk and twitter threatened to ban the keys choqok shipped <nowiki>[[http://arst.ch/ma1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~rohangarg/+bugs?field.searchtext=MIR&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=rohangarg&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|Filing MIR's]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

* Packaging new KDE SC releases:
  Getting the newest KDE software releases into Kubuntu ASAP together with the rest of the Ninjas and the other kubuntu-devs.
* Testing alpha releases:
  I'm usually using the devel release as my main environment to notice regressions as quickly as possible.
* Co-maintaining Project Neon:
  Making sure current KDE svn trunk / git master builds on kubuntu and notifying upstream developers if something got broken on their side.
* Managing the KDE SC packaging of the ninjas:
  Informing people what work is to be done, coordinating it and keeping track of what the debian-qt-kde team does so we keep duplicating work to a minimum.
* Full list of my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rohangarg/+uploaded-packages|package uploads]]</nowiki>:
  What of the work I've done so far ended up in the archive.

=== Things I could do better ===
Not rushing stuff, rushing stuff = making mistakes.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* Automating packaging of new KDE releases
* Work close with the debian-qt-kde team.
* Keep providing excellent KDE packaging for Kubuntu.
* Do more universe work and become a MOTU

=== What I like least in Kubuntu ===
* Hmm .. that's a tough one, I would absolutely love to have a "Get started with KDE" program sort of application that runs when ubiquity is installing the base system  that installs a browser of your choosing, helps you setup IM and EMail. Sort of helps get the user acquainted with his new system
 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
What I've seen from Rohan was great work and I'd totally trust him with MOTU upload rights. For KDE package set rights, I'll leave judgement to everyone who's more involved there.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mingw32/4.2.1.dfsg-2ubuntu1
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/choqok/+bug/608378

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
