{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===
Hi 
I'm Rohan Garg and I'm currently working with Blue Systems to improve KDE and Kubuntu.
<<BR>>
Im known on the irc as shadeslayer,feel free to poke me anytime ;)
<<BR>>
My LP page : https://launchpad.net/~rohangarg
<<BR>>
=== Team Memberships ===

==== Bug Squad ====
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bug-squad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> I'm part of the Bug Squad and help triage bugs as often as possible.  

=== K/Ubuntu Support ===

{*} I have been providing support for K/Ubuntu Users via the IRC on various channels mentioned below.I try to solve the problems by troubleshooting the errors and providing more info as to whats going wrong with the user's system.
If it is a packaging problem,I try to provide them with packages from my PPA to verify if the problem has been resolved upstream.<<BR>>
{*} Support through Launchpad Answers : <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~rohangarg]]</nowiki> shows a list of my contributions to launchpad answers.<<BR>>

=== Development Contributions ===

==== Packaging ====
{*} Primarily help with maintaining the KDE packageset in Kubuntu among minor fixes in other places of the archive.

==== KDE Development ====
{*} Worked on adding new features to KDE Telepathy
<<BR>>
{*} Working on porting Phonon GStreamer to GStreamer 1.0

=== IRC ===
I lurk in the following channels on Freenode <<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #launchpad {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu+1 {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-bugs {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-classroom {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-classroom-backstage {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-classroom-chat {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #kubuntu-devel {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-devel {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-in {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-learning {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-packaging {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-meeting {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-motu {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #kde {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #ubuntu-learning {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #kubuntu {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} #kubuntu-offtopic {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}}

=== Testimonials ===

{*} When Rohan first appeared in the Ubuntu IRC community, he was a problem user. The reason I mention this is to put in to perspective how much he has understood what Ubuntu expects of it's members and changed his behaviour to match. Rohan has been the model of an IRC member, provided solid contirbution under the nickname shadeslayer and used his contributions outside of IRC to further other user. I really feel that Rohan has understood what Ubuntu is about as a technology and a community and altered his behaviour to get the best out of both. I've seen sustained effort and contribution on multiple fronts and feel membership would be a good reward and inspiration to achieve further. Ikonia Matt-Darcy
