{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== My Contributions ==
I Love Ubuntu. I've been here since 2008 at least. I Love Free Software and the whole community and the whole world :) .

=== Sustained contributions ===
* Reporting bugs is like my middle name or something. I Love doing it and following up on them: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~mightyiam/+reportedbugs?field.searchtext=&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.structural_subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on&orderby=targetname&start=0|This long link]]</nowiki> is the closest that I could provide to a list of my reported bugs but it would be good if it could be narrowed down to Ubuntu related bugs only.
 
* Providing Ubuntu support for some family and friends: I know this has some impact. I know that this is a considerable contribution in a sense that for these specific people, like my sister and some friends, they Love Ubuntu and it has helped them and made their computer usage more happy and snappy :)

=== Less sustained contributions ===
* <nowiki>[[RTLTeam|Ubuntu RTL initiative]]</nowiki>: I may return to this in the future.

== Intension ==
I intend to open a sort of a community/charity IT education center in Jerusalem. Ubuntu will be at the core of this:
* Anyone could come and learn and/or teach in this center in the open hours where everyone could come and learn from each-other
* Computer donations and scrap-yard computer salvaging/reuse/repair powered by Free Software, to help bring computers and Free Software to financially challenged people, with focus on teenagers.
* Structured lessons as well: to create the next generation of Ubuntu Desktop tecchies in order to fill in the gap in the market.

== Personal aspirations ==
I would like to use the momentum and exposure that the above social charity activity provides me and start providing professional Ubuntu technical support and computer repair services, etc. in Israel and perhaps move on to the SMB sector as well with for example, LTSP setup, which I've already one in place in a friend's business with several old computers being used as thin clients with great success.

== Conclusion ==
I think I deserve the Ubuntu membership status because I'm devoted, I really care and I try to help in accordance to the Ubuntu spirit, for several years now.

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mightyiam|Me in Launchpad]]</nowiki>
