{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== শাহরিয়ার তারিক ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; background:#F1F1ED;margin: 1 1 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#1589FF"> About Me
|-
| Location
| Dhaka, Bangladesh
|-
| Timezone
| GMT +6
|-
| Nationality
| Bangladeshi
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tariq086|shahriar86]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| shahriar@ubuntu-bd.org , shahriar@linux.org.bd
|-
| Phone
| (+88) 0167-0965741 (text message only)
|-
| IRC
| shahriar86 or shahriar086 on freenode #ubuntu-bd, #ubuntu-marketing
|-
| Current Distro
| Kubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope)
|-
| Future Distro
| Kubuntu 9.10 (Karmic Koala) & RBL-Royal Bengal Linux(remastered version of Debian/Ubuntu for the Bangladehi people)
|}

Hello everyone,
I am Saiyad Mohammad Shahriar Tariq Munim Bin Manzur. (Yes I am aware that I have a pretty big name, in fact I could not finish registration for the school final exam.)

Anyway back to work,
I am not a technical person, know less about the technical aspects of computer or Linux. Like many, Ubuntu is the first Linux distro I have tried. I believe that what I receive I should return it back to other. So I decided to give back to the Ubuntu community by providing my services on which I am knowledgeable. I am marketing student and I actually look after the marketing section of our Local Community Team in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is full of potential what it requires is the right guideline and I believe Opensource philosophy can help Bangladesh prosper.

==== Ubuntu Bangladesh ====

* I am working as the marketing and content manager for this approved local community team. It is part of my responsibility to maintain the official webpage for our LoCo Team <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-bd.org|ubuntu-bd.org]]</nowiki>. I write and translate Ubuntu related news items that goes on in this site.
* I like to monitor & participate in discussions of our mailing list <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bd|Ubuntu-BD mailing list]]</nowiki>.
* I provide basic help to the visitors on our <nowiki>[[http://forum.linux.org.bd|forum]]</nowiki> and IRC channel #ubuntu-bd.

==== Events ====

* '''Hardy Release Party''': I organized this 4-hours long release party and coordinated with speakers and volunteers to make sure that the program runs smoothly. Held on May 17, 2008.
* '''Intrepid Ibex Live''':  Organized another 4-hours long workshop to give the audience a glimpse of Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex. Hold a 15min Presentation on what FOSS is and why we need it in Bangladesh. Held on Nov 21, 2008.
* Organized '''Ubuntu Linux 9.04 Live''':  a 5-hours long workshop on Ubuntu Linux 9.04's new features and updates. Gave 20min Presentation on Ubuntu Linux Installation. Held on May 29, 2009.

==== Personal contribution ====
* I keep a liaison with the educational institutions, online communities as well as with newspapers and magazines.
* I burn and distribute Ubuntu, Kubuntu and other Linux distro CDs and DVDs for free of cost where possible. (Blank disks are cheaper than the govt. tax-custom charge imposed on the CDs sent by ShipIt).
* I also give home delivery where it was required.

==== Future Plans ====

* Organizing more programs and workshops at universities.

* Representing Ubuntu Bangladesh at the <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/asia/bangladesh|Software Freedom Day 2009]]</nowiki> Bangladesh event.

* Continuing the CD and DVD distribution program.

* Opening Several Distribution Center throughout the country in a view to create an effective and efficient distribution network for Ubuntu and other Linux distros.

* Encouraging and helping my friends and families to become Ubuntu members.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#1589FF"> My Other Affiliations
|-
| Volunteer
| <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.org.bd|Bangladesh Linux Users Alliance]]</nowiki>
|-
| Volunteer
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/Projects/SpreadUbuntu/|SpreadUbuntu (SU)]]</nowiki>
|-
| Volunteer (Bangladesh)
| <nowiki>[[http://www.creativecommons.org/worldwide/|Creative Commons]]</nowiki>
|-
| Volunteer
| Royal Bengal Linux-Codenamed RBL-2009 (Remastered version of Debian/Ubuntu for Bangladeshi people)
|}
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryLoCoTeams
