{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Hi, 
my name is Shane Fagan. Im from kildare in Ireland. Im a software development student. Ive been using ubuntu since 2007 after being introduced to it in college.  

On the 7th of July 2009 I became a ubuntu member. I attended the Lucid UDS and contributed remotely in the Maverick UDS.

I am a developer (for 4 years now give or take) and I have a strong interest and help out where I can in upstream developments like Zeitgeist. 

I help out with ubuntu-docs from time to time and ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~shanepatrickfagan|answers]]</nowiki> on launchpad. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~shanepatrickfagan|Bug reporting]]</nowiki> and testing of new ubuntu releases. 

I love testing the new releases of ubuntu and the upstreams im exited by and showing off the new features to my friends (shamelessly trying to convert everyone to ubuntu :) )

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Shane Fagan
|-
| '''Email'''
| shanepatrickfagan@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| fagan on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~shanepatrickfagan
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://shanefagan.com/
|}

=== Activities ===

* Ubuntu answers since December 07 <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-answer]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-answers]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~shanepatrickfagan]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-docs contributor <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/ubuntu-docs/9.10.2]]</nowiki> 
* Irish translation team leader <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-ie|Ubuntu Irish translation team on launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-ie.org/]]</nowiki> administrator
* Ubuntu tester Bug testing alpha and beta releases of ubuntu
* Gnome-zeitgeist <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gnome-zeitgeist]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu QA team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-qa]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

* Contribute more to development work to ubuntu
* Promote the irish language in ubuntu

=== Testimonials for Membership Application ===
==== Christopher Swift ====
''Shane is a key part of the Irish LoCo team, it is not uncommon to find him in #ubuntu-ie IRC communicating well with other users and he has a very unique way of seeing the world. I truly believe what Ubuntu needs is more people like Shane who can help contribute to Ubuntu especially with the Irish translation team in launchpad.'' - <nowiki>[[Chris|Christopher Swift]]</nowiki>, Point of Contact of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-cym.org|Ubuntu Cymru]]</nowiki>

==== Seif Lotfy ====
''Shane is a a highly appreciated contributor to the Zeitgeist project, working in all areas such as, Development, Bug Reporting, Bug Managment, Artwork and Design. He is becoming a key figure and has amazing strategy skills communicating with other project members interested in Zeitgeist'' - <nowiki>[[SeifLotfy|Seif Lotfy]]</nowiki>, Point of Contact of <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeZeitgeist|Zeitgeist]]</nowiki>

==== Siegfried Gevatter ====
''I subscribe Seif's opinion above; Shane is a very active and valuable member of the Zeitgeist community and I'd love to see him develop his potential further in the Ubuntu community.'' - <nowiki>[[RainCT]]</nowiki>

==== Maciej Danielski ====
''Shane is a very active member of the Irish LoCo, always willing to help on IRC and mailing list. His contribution to ubuntu-ie.org website administration is essential. Shane also took over the ownership of the Irish Translation Team recently. Oh... and it's his 21st birthday today (July 7th).'' - <nowiki>[[mdanielski|Maciej Danielski]]</nowiki>

==== José Luis Ricón ====

''Shane is quite active in the Zeitgeist project, specially the always needed documentation part. Getting something readable out of that jungle of classes and functions deserves praise. '' - <nowiki>[[Artir]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHomepage
