{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Overview ==

This is the home page for Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shan_language|Shan]]</nowiki> translation.
** you can see shan Version <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ShanTranslation-shn|Shan Language]]</nowiki>

Our intention is to maintain a central communications channel for Shan languages. Generally, this includes the people translating in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-shn|launchpad Shan Language]]</nowiki>.

These variants are almost identical in their written forms, so it makes sense for some communication and co-operation to take place. We hope to eliminate the duplication of effort that is currently taking place in regards to translations.

Our translations are based on <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+lang/shn|shan Language]]</nowiki>. That effort is headquartered <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-shn|here]]</nowiki>. Essentially, we are producing a know-how form of Shan Language version.

We do not intend to restrict the activities of local translation groups, but rather to provide a common base for everyone to build upon. Through co-operation, we hope to strengthen rather than weaken localised versions of Shan Language.

== How to Participate ==

Joining the Ubuntu Shan Translators team allows you to commit translations and vote on policies. If you are not a member, your contributions will need to be approved by a member. The procedure for joining is as follows.

# Sign up for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad account]]</nowiki>.
# Make your e-mail address visible on your Launchpad homepage so that we can get in touch with you. If we cannot contact you, you cannot join.
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-shn|Ubuntu Shan Translators Team]]</nowiki>
# Sign up to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-l10n-shn/|ubuntu-l10n-shn mailing list]]</nowiki>
# An Administrator should e-mail you. Reply to their message.

The team is moderated, meaning that you need to be approved by an Administrator before you are allowed to join. Membership is dependent upon:

* adequate command of both English and Burmese language to qualify as a translator
* ability to contribute constructively and work as a team under the leadership of the Administrators
* following established guidelines and directions
* remaining contactable via the mailing list

Don't let these requirements scare you off, though. Provided you have decent written English language skills, you will likely be admitted.

== Communication ==

Our primary communications channel is our <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-l10n-shn/|mailing list]]</nowiki>.

== Translation Guidelines ==

Unless they conflict with the information given below, translations should be based on the proper vocabulary. You can check the following online dictionaries for some vocab.

* the <nowiki>[[http://sealang.net/shan/dictionary.htm| Sealang Shan Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://shaniit.org/| Shan Information Institute Technology ]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu-shn.org/| Ubuntu for Shan ]]</nowiki>

=== Dialectical/Contextual Differences ===

Since our goal is to provide a common base for Burmese, one must be mindful of the use of words in translation, and the differences between dialects and contexts (nouns/verbs, computing/non-computing, etc.).  We will use the mailing list or webchat to discuss such matters.

=== Translation Tools ===

Other useful resources:

Coming Soon!!
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryLoCoTeams 
