{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Shashank Nagaraj ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~shashank-sjbit|shashank-sjbit]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| shashank.sjbit@gmail.com
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://electproj.blogspot.com/]]</nowiki>
|}

== Introduction ==

A young professional working at Oracle, Ran across Ubuntu during my college days and absolutely loved the amount of freedom this platform gave me. May it be a small program to make my life simpler or develop a small game, there is nothing that I couldn't do on this platform. Being used to Windows and the virus world, having no virus on my OS was a welcome surprise and that is one of the major reason which made me hooked up to this network. Initially had a tough time adjusting to it but once i got in terms of the process of Linux, it was way too easy and refreshing. I have constantly worked on bringing more people to Ubuntu and I would continue to bring people into the gardens of Linux through the refreshing fragrance of Ubuntu. Till date I have successfully introduced good number of my friends and colleagues to this wonderful experience and will continue to do so.  

== Community Involvement ==

I have constantly worked towards improving the community. From the day i joined the ubuntu community by installing my brand new OS, I have introduced new people to the community and helped them get used to the environment and work on it easily.

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

The Ubuntu Beginners Team is the best way to start contributing/developing in ubuntu.
Hope i get into that team and start working right away :) 

== Future Hopes ==

As of now my main focus is to get into the Beginner's Team and gain as much experience as possible.
