{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''DISCLAIMER:''' The information presented here is for entertainment purposes only. The author, web host, ISP, or anyone involved in providing this information is '''NOT''' responsible for any injury, death, loss, or damage resulting from the use of this information.

=== Table Of Contents ===

*** <nowiki>[[#20060402|2006-04-02 Discovering `perldoc` Does Not Work]]</nowiki>

=== 2006-04-02 Discovering `perldoc` Does Not Work ===

After I got Ubuntu going, one of first things I discovered was that `perldoc perl` did not work. Since `perldoc` is a required part of Perl, this totally shocked me. I went looking in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/|wiki]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/index.php|forum]]</nowiki> and tho other people had the same problem, there was no solution :(

It was only after I discovered how to turn on the repositories, it I find out how to install `perldoc`.

==== Turning on the Repositories ====

To turn on the repositories, edit the sources.list: <pre>
  sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
</pre>

In `gedit`, uncomment everything that is `main restricted` or `universe` but ''not'' a `backport`. Save the file and start the ''Synpatic Package Manager'' via '''System -> Administration -> Synpatic Manager'''. You will have to enter your password. Once it has started, press ''Reload''. You should see a long list of ''Sections'' and ''Packages''.

==== Loading `perldoc` ====

In the ''Documentation'' section, you will find the package ''perl-doc''. Click on it, ''Mark for Installation'' and follow the instructions.
