{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''DISCLAIMER:''' The information presented here is for entertainment purposes only. The author, web host, ISP, or anyone involved in providing this information is '''NOT''' responsible for any injury, death, loss, or damage resulting from the use of this information.

=== Table Of Contents ===

*** <nowiki>[[#20060403|2006-04-03 Configuring Apache]]</nowiki>

*** <nowiki>[[#20060406|2006-04-06 No Loopback Network]]</nowiki>

*** <nowiki>[[#20060407|2006-04-07 NApache Working]]</nowiki>

=== 2006-04-03 Configuring Apache ===

After downloading ''Apache2'' via the ''Synpatic Package Manager'', I set about configuring it. I want to set it up as a local web server only.

First thing I did was to edit the `ports.conf` file. I changed: <pre>
  Listen 80
</pre>
to: <pre>
  Listen 127.0.0.1:80
</pre>
to restrict it to the `localhost`.

I then added the following lines to `apache.conf`: <pre>
  UserDir public_html
  UserDir disabled
  UserDir enabled myuserid

  <Directory /home/*/public_html>
        AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
        Options Indexes SymLinksIfOwnerMatch Includes ExecCGI
  </Directory>
</pre>
(Of course, `myuserid` is not my real user ID.)

But when I try loading a page from it, like <code> http://127.0.0.1/ </code>, it times out :(

I looked at the <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/httpd.html|Ubuntu servers documentation]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/|Apache Documentation]]</nowiki> but I can seem to determine what's wrong.

=== 2006-04-06 No Loopback Network ===

After much poking around in my system and some heavy thinking, it seems that my problem is that the loopback network is not started. I know that my ethernet network does not start at boot and I have to start it manually. So, now I have to fix the both of them. This could take several days (or weeks).

I suppose I should show the evidence for this. It's simple, really. The error.log contains nothing but starting and stopping events, and the access.log contains nothing at all; it's size is still zero. That would mean that Apache is not getting anything. If the loopback network is down, this would be the case. So that's what I'm investigating next.

==== Update ====

I just tried a `ping 127.0.0.1` No response. The loopback network is definitely down.

=== 2006-04-07 Apache Working ===

Today, I read the manual. Or more correctly, I read the correct manual. Apparently, the command I needed was: <pre>
  sudo ifconfig lo up
</pre>
which is the command to start the loopback network. I then successfully got a page off my machine.

Now all I have to do is configure it to start at boot.
