{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== HOWTO Boot Apple PowerPCs From A USB Drive In Open Firmware ===

The BIOS for Apple PowerPCs is Open Firmware. It is the only way to boot the machine from anything but the hard disk or the CDROM.

'''Note:''' Some older G3 models can access Open Firmware via an external terminal. If you have one of these, you need an external terminal or another PC that can emulate one.

'''Note:''' You may want to print this out before you start.

==== Accessing Open Firmware ====

To access Open Firmware (OF):

Plug in the USB drive before you reboot. Reboot the machine and between the chime and the first screen, hold down the `opt + cmd + o + f` keys. You should see the OF prompt.

<pre>
   ok
  0 >
</pre>

==== Determining The USB Drive ====

List all the devices on the machine. Write down the ones with `usb`.

'''Note:''' This is from my machine. YMMV

<pre>
  0 > dev / ls
  ...
  ff972e78:    /usb@18
  ff9a4fa8:      /mouse@1
  ff97ab00:    /usb@19
  ff9a4f80:      /disk@1
  ...
</pre>
In this case, the USB drive is `/usb@19`. Write it down.

==== Using The Device Alias ====

OF has aliases for the device to make using them easier. Find the alias of the USB drive.

<pre>
  0 > devalias
  ...
  usb1                  /pci@f2000000/usb@19
  ...
</pre>
In this case, it's `usb1`. Write it down.

==== Booting The USB Drive ====

The `boot` commands boots the machine.

<pre>
  0 > boot usb1/disk@1:2,\yaboot
</pre>
After a bit, you should see the `boot.msg` you stored in the USB. Choose the boot image you want to start. To get a listing of all the images, press `TAB`.

'''Note:''' Booting from a USB drive may be significantly slower.

==== To Boot The Hard Disk ====

To boot from the hard disk in OF, use:

<pre>
  0 > boot hd:,\\:tbxi
</pre>

=== Original Author ===

Shawn H Corey `<SHCOREY at cpan.org>`

==== Contributing Authors ====

(Insert your name here if you modified this documentation. Do not remove this comment.)

=== Acknowledgements ===

Thanks to Skeeve42 at Ubuntu forums for his pointers. http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4871254&postcount=1

Thanks to OSXbook.com for their insights on Open Firmware works. http://osxbook.com/book/bonus/ancient/whatismacosx/arch_boot.html

=== Copyright & Licences ===

Copyright 2010 by Shawn H Corey. All rights reserved.

==== Document Licence ====

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the Invariant Sections being ''Original Author'', ''Copyright & Licences'', and ''Document Licence''.
