{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Hello and welcome ===
 
My name is Shayon and I go by Sj. I am a Computer Science major. So, as usual most of the time I am interested in learning more about programming a.k.a coding. And that is what I like to do the most. Except for partying, that is a bit (nah !) .

I have been in the Linux community for quite a long time now(Yes, I can proudly say that finally) . I guess the only reason of me moving to Linux from Windows was because I wanted to try something different. And then suddenly one day a metero fell over the garden near by my garage … ah ! cut cut … wrong place… Anyway, and till date Linux has been my primary OS type and Mac my second primary.

My two preferred Linux distros are Ubuntu and openSUSE . . .I must recommend these two distros to you. 

=== Education ===
Well you already read that above. But still, few bullet points on that -

** Majors         : Computer Science
** Minors         : Information Science
** 2nd Minors : Theatre Arts

=== Interests ===
** Sky diving – pending (expected date September, 2011)
** Bungee Jumping -pending
** Scuba Diving – pending
** Wake Boarding – pending
** Rafting – Check
** Para Gliding - check
** Para sailing - check

=== Things I like to do outside classroom ===

** Make short films 
** Practice coding (i don’t much inside the classroom, I just listen to the professor like an obedient student)
** Relaxing under the sun.
** Play badminton
** Travelling

=== Contact ===

** <nowiki>[[mailto:sj@sjzone.in|sj@sjzone.in]]</nowiki>
** IRC nick - shayonj on freenode
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sj-i|launch pad]]</nowiki>

=== Sj in words ===

''Indian, travelling, computer science, open source, student, UWGB, sarcastic, movies, foodie, love and believer''
