{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Who I am ===
My name is Dolev and I live in small suburb just outside of Tel Aviv.

I have been involved with Ubuntu since the first version and I had it on my mind, from first sight, to form a home for the Israeli Ubuntu Community; In 2005 I founded it.

=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name:'''
| 
| Dolev Ravid
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:Dolev@shezif.co.il|Dolev@shezif.co.il]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC (freenode):'''
| 
| Shezif
|-
| '''MSN:'''
| 
| Shezif@shezif.net
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[http://Shezif.co.il|"יומן הרשת של שזיף" (Hebrew)]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Activities ===
* The Israeli Leader (The head of the Israeli LoCo team)
* Help in translating  Ubuntu to Hebrew
* Organize the Israeli Community Meetings
* The Israeli Forums Moderator 
* Distribute Ubuntu CD's
* Support new users
* Write many of Hebrew Ubuntu guides

=== Awards ===
* "Net Angels" from ISOC-IL
* Sign of respect and appreciation from the "Makor Association"

=== Testimonial ===
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lielft|Liel Fridman]]</nowiki>: Dolev contributes a lot for the Israeli LoCo. He is very responsible and helpful as well. I think he always does very good work.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~shooshooo|Shooshooo]]</nowiki>: Ever since my first encounter with the Israeli Ubuntu Forum I was impressed with the seriousness and dedication it is managed and with the way the management of Dolev encourages initiatives and does not strangle them. His lack of ego is evident and, I'm sure, contributes to the good and homely feel of the forums and lack of unnecessary friction. 
