{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Shih-Yuan Lee, apply for !MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| 李世元 Shih-Yuan Lee (!FourDollars)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~fourdollars
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[ShihYuanLee]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==

I am a Debian developer since <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/person/fourdollars|2017-05-07]]</nowiki>. I maintained <nowiki>[[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=fourdollars+fourdollars%40gmail.com&comaint=yes|some Debian packages]]</nowiki>. I was an official GNOME Foundation Member from 2017-06-05 to 2019-06-04.
I am a Canonical employee. I works for OEM Enablement under Devices Enablement.

== My Ubuntu story ==

As a community member, I created and maintained <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/ubuntu.zh.hant/|Ubuntu Traditional Chinese Group]]</nowiki> on Facebook and supported <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-tw.org/|Ubuntu Taiwan Community]]</nowiki> for many years. As a Canonical employee, I physically joined UDS-{<nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-m/|M]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/|N]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/|O]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-p/|P]]</nowiki>}. I preloaded the customized Ubuntu systems in many kinds of x86 PCs for ASUS, Dell, ECS, HP and Lenovo.

=== My involvement ===

Please also check https://launchpad.net/~fourdollars/+related-packages and https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Shih-Yuan+Lee*&sponsoree_search=name.

I also have some <nowiki>[[https://github.com/fourdollars/fourdollars.github.io/blob/master/contributions|contributions]]</nowiki> directly in upstream projects.

* systemd/udev
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1740894]]</nowiki> KEY_RFKILL is not passed to userspace
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1837700]]</nowiki> Dell system takes a long time to connect network with external dock

* GNOME
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1841886]]</nowiki> Join Displays failed when using two external monitor of one Full HD and one Ultra HD

* Bluetooth
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1153488]]</nowiki> Treats bluetooth input device batteries as batteries
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1237329]]</nowiki> Apple Wireless Keyboard/Mouse is not listed as its original name. It stripped non-ascii characters (UTF-8 valid)
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1300623]]</nowiki> bluetoothd crashs after resuming from Suspend to RAM
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1303819]]</nowiki> Bluetooth menu's content disappeared after resume
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1839124]]</nowiki> BT advertising packet wakes up the system from S3 and suspend-to-idle

* Debian
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1512200]]</nowiki> reportbug: crashes on BTS query returning "HTTPError 500 Internal Server Error"

* Input Method
** <nowiki>[[Bug:843619]]</nowiki> There is a twice pages turning problem when using plain zhuyin with space as selection
** <nowiki>[[Bug:874028]]</nowiki> The preferences window of ibus-chewing crashed after clicking save button
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1160414]]</nowiki> Use shift keypress to switch to English mode

* Installer
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1097570]]</nowiki> grub2-signed can not find the right device when there are two filesystems containing the file '.disk/info'
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1341944]]</nowiki> 32-Bit UEFI bootloader support needed
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1418105]]</nowiki> Trusty: testing .2 the oem session on i386 leaves the oem wifi password in place
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1429030]]</nowiki> netboot mini.iso doesn't support UEFI BIOS mode installation
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1456443]]</nowiki> Skip eMMC device's boot0, boot1 and rpmb partitions
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1460521]]</nowiki> UEFI BootOrder is not empty after I removed the last boot entry
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1502772]]</nowiki> Linux kernel in Ubuntu doesn't provide mmc-modules udeb
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1512589]]</nowiki> partman-efi should follow partman-auto/disk to reuse the ESP
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1908023]]</nowiki> installation stopped by an exception from mark_install() in Cache class of python3-apt

* Graphics
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1065979]]</nowiki> external/internal monitors mirrored on boot when laptop lid is closed
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1212123]]</nowiki> Erratic cursor movement when using "Coordinate Transformation Matrix"
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1255813]]</nowiki> The modaliases field is not complete
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1340544]]</nowiki> gnome-rr: Normalize the minimum brightness level
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1386620]]</nowiki> re-enable rotation for the intel driver in optimus mode
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1381625]]</nowiki> Adjust brightness to lowest value caused screen whole black

* HiDPI
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1286878]]</nowiki> Doesn't scale well on a hidpi display
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1382291]]</nowiki> Account creation during first boot of an OEM image needs to scale based on resolution
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480123]]</nowiki> LibreOffice doesn't support HiDPI well
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480128]]</nowiki> The thumbnails of background images doesn't support HiDPI display
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480138]]</nowiki> The background image becomes titled for a while during the logout process
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480143]]</nowiki> The organized files and folders are covered by Unity Launcher
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480194]]</nowiki> Amazon webapp doesn't follow the scale factor for HiDPI display
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480207]]</nowiki> eog (a GNOME image viewer) doesn't support HiDPI display
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1480217]]</nowiki> Nautilus transparent background becomes a mess when changing scaling factor

* Python
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1214848]]</nowiki> !SocketServer doesn't handle client disconnects properly
 
* Sync Package
** <nowiki>[[Bug:918059]]</nowiki> Sync betaradio 1.4-1 (universe) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[Bug:918061]]</nowiki> Sync ibus-chewing 1.3.10+clean-1 (main) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[Bug:923637]]</nowiki> Sync hime 0.9.9-1 (universe) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[Bug:925847]]</nowiki> Sync pcmanx-gtk2 1.1-1 (universe) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1046649]]</nowiki> Please backport fonts-cns11643 98.1-2 (multiverse) from quantal

* Touchpad
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1456881]]</nowiki> Some touchpads' right button doesn't work under I2C mode, need support of clickpads
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1417363]]</nowiki> touchpad stops working after suspend/resume on XPS13 2015

* Utils
** <nowiki>[[Bug:961166]]</nowiki> lb_binary_disk doesn't check compression of the initramfs
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1218197]]</nowiki> pristine-tar: command failed when using git-buildpackage on the xz tarball
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1630480]]</nowiki> libsmbios doesn't support SMBIOS version 3

* WWAN
** <nowiki>[[Bug:1441095]]</nowiki> novatel: improve probing for Dell branded modems

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* I made a legacy traditional Chinese input method <nowiki>[[http://fourdollars.github.io/ibus-zhuyin/|ibus-zhuyin]]</nowiki> from scratch. I also maintain it in <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/ibus-zhuyin|Debian Package Tracker - ibus-zhuyin]]</nowiki> so you can install it in Debian/Ubuntu.

* I made a pure X11 application <nowiki>[[http://fourdollars.github.io/x11-touchscreen-calibrator/|x11-touchscreen-calibrator]]</nowiki> from scratch to calibrate the touchscreen automatically. I also maintain it in <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/x11-touchscreen-calibrator|Debian Package Tracker - x11-touchscreen-calibrator]]</nowiki> so you can install it in Debian/Ubuntu.

* I made https://bit.ly/mainline_kernels to quickly install the kernels from https://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline, seeing the usage on https://github.com/fourdollars/scripts. 

* I made https://github.com/fourdollars/energy-tools to measure for power saving standards as easy as possible and there is a PPA at https://launchpad.net/~fourdollars/+archive/ubuntu/energy-tools.

=== Areas of work ===

My daily work in Canonical is mainly for Ubuntu OEM images, so I work on the installer, related components and the image build system, such as debian-installer, ubiquity, live-build and dell-recovery. But except Ubuntu OEM images, I also work for many kinds of issues reported by Canonical OEM QA and the OEM/ODM, such as Linux kernel, X Window system, Freedesktop components, GNOME components, EDID, UEFI, BIOS/EC, WiFi/Bluetooth devices, WWAN devices, touchpad devices, touchscreen devices, hotkeys, USB docking stations and Energy Star.

=== Things I could do better ===

I hope I can learn more knowledge about the package uploading process and convention in Ubuntu, and then I would like to apply to become an Ubuntu MOTU developer.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

There are many issues from Ubuntu OEM projects but there are no enough MOTU developers able to deal with them directly. I wish I can become a MOTU developer to deal with those issues directly.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
I really enjoy working with Shih-Yuan. He responds quickly, he pays attention to details is happy to work with Debian and upstreams, and has been contributing to Debian for years.. He knows his way around and it always happy to help others. I fully endorse him as a MOTU. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki> 

=== Alberto Milone (tseliot) ===

I have worked with Shih-Yuan for years now, and he has proved to be pretty knowledgeable and versatile in his approach. He is also very responsive and easy to work with. As a Core developer, I fully endorse him as a MOTU. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:albertomilone]]</nowiki> 
=== seb128 ===

I reviewed and sponsored several SRUs for Shih-Yuan. He's responsive to questions/requests for changes and doing good work. I recommend him for MOTU

=== Mario Limonciello (superm1) ===
I've worked with 4$ on various OEM projects over the years.  He's very skilled at finding his way around packages across foundations and coming up with proper fixes.  He strives to work within process and submit them as SRU's rather than taking the bandaid approach in the OEM builds.  He's collaborated with me on dell-recovery for a long time and I would love to see him working on other packages in Universe as a MOTU.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
