{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



----

'''I, Shih-Yuan Lee, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| 李世元 Shih-Yuan Lee (!FourDollars)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~fourdollars
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[ShihYuanLee]]</nowiki>
|}

I am applying because:

''Remove any reasons that don't apply, add any extra reasons and edit as
needed. These examples are the common cases, but are not a hard requirement for applications.''

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am a Debian developer since <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/person/fourdollars|2017-05-07]]</nowiki>. I maintained <nowiki>[[https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=fourdollars+fourdollars%40gmail.com&comaint=yes|some Debian packages]]</nowiki>. I was an official GNOME Foundation Member from 2017-06-05 to 2019-06-04.
I am also a Canonical employee since 2010. I works in OEM Enablement under Ubuntu Engineering.

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===

Please also check https://launchpad.net/~fourdollars/+related-packages and https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Shih-Yuan+Lee*&sponsoree_search=name.

I also have some <nowiki>[[https://github.com/fourdollars/fourdollars.github.io/blob/master/contributions|contributions]]</nowiki> directly in upstream projects.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Include your existing sponsored uploads for the packages for which you are seeking upload rights. You can link directly to an upload by following <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hello/2.10-1build1|this pattern]]</nowiki>.''

* [Bug:2083657] Remove oem-flavour.cfg for the OEM kernel retirement https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/1:0.9.6.2~0.22.04.8
* [Bug:2042097] [MIR][jammy] oem-somerville-magmar-meta https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/oem-somerville-magmar-meta/22.04~ubuntu1

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
