{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Bug reporter and Ubuntu user from Pune,India. Always trying to find new, simple & interesting applications. 

=== shirishAg75 ===
Email: shirishag75@gmail.com <<BR>>
Blog : https://flossexperiences.wordpress.com <<BR>>
Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~shirishag75 <<BR>> 

=== Aims for 2009 ===

* Help to improve the wikidocs
* Help out with TopicBasedHelp
* Do lot of Testing
* Do lot of upstream bug-reporting (Good progress there)
* Bring Awareness to Masses about Creative Commons licenses :)

=== Launchpad, Bugs and Specs ===

I'm a member of Launchpad beta testers. I've been fairly active in trying to improve launchpad

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~shirishag75/?field.searchtext=launchpad&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=|Bugs I've reported about Launchpad]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~shirishag75/+subscribedbugs|Bugs I've subscribed to]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~shirishag75/+reportedbugs|Bugs I've reported]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.beta.launchpad.net/~shirishag75|mostly subscriptions apart from 2]]</nowiki>

=== Todo List ===

* Learn how to do mockups with GLADE. Looking for some good tutorial atm.
* Also find a good alternative to Techsmith's snagit capture application.

  Feel free to give any pointers by mailing.

CategoryHomepage
