{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT'''

This is a short list of resources which can be useful for Ubuntu artists. See <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/|Canonical design toolkit]]</nowiki> for guidelines and http://spreadubuntu.org/ if you are looking for a base for your work.

=== Branding ===

==== Ubuntu Logo ====
* For Ubuntu brand guidelines, Ubuntu logo in various formats and Ubuntu color palettes see http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/ubuntu-brand-guidelines/
* Logos of derivatives can be found at <nowiki>[[Artwork-Official]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Pictograms ====
* <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/ubuntu-brand-guidelines/|Guidelines]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/brand/Pictograms/|Official pictograms]]</nowiki>
* Community pictograms: <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.org/ru/node/508|event pictograms]]</nowiki>, your submission here!

==== Ubuntu Font ====
* http://font.ubuntu.com/

==== Ubuntu Websites ====
* <nowiki>[[http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/guides-for-websites/|Website guidelines]]</nowiki>
* You can check out style sources of any Ubuntu website at https://code.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website
* There's no unified and reusable CSS yet, but you can check out <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-website-community/ubuntu-website/light-base-theme/files/head:/css/|these files]]</nowiki> if you need an Ubuntu style sheet right now and don't mind some rough edges.

=== Theming ===

==== GTK themes ====
* We need a simple yet comprehensive introduction and Murrine engine documentation or examples.
* Natty is using GTK+ 3.0! What's new for designers?

==== Window border ====
* Window border will be handled by Metacity-like thing, right?

==== Icons ====
* Ubuntu uses an original icon theme - <nowiki>[[Artwork-HumanityIcons|Humanity]]</nowiki>, based on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/elementaryicons|Elementary icons]]</nowiki>
* For Humanity guidelines see <nowiki>[[Artwork-HumanityIcons-Guidelines]]</nowiki>
* See https://bugs.launchpad.net/humanity for open bugs in Humanity. Every bug is actually a request for a [relatively] highly-sought improvement. 

==== Unity theming ====
* <nowiki>[[Unity]]</nowiki> is not themeable yet

==== Boot splash ====
* For introduction and theming tutorial see <nowiki>[[Artwork-Documentation-Plymouth]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/natty/plymouth-theme-script|An example]]</nowiki> of script-powered Plymouth theme
* Reusable Plymouth theme examples: <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=plymouth-theme&searchon=names&suite=natty&section=all|Plymouth themes packaged in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryArtwork
