{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, ShuiLu Pi, apply for upload rights for those packages:'''
* ubuntukylin-default-settings

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| !ShuiLu Pi
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~pishuilu1128
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ShuiLuPi
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a member of the Ubuntu Kylin Team since 2012.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first contact with ubuntu was at Linux course in 2009. I joined Ubuntu Kylin Team after graduation in 2012. I involved in all Ubuntu Kylin version work since Ubuntu Kylin 13.04.

=== My involvement ===

As Ubuntu Kylin member most of my works is system configuration(wallpapers、slideshow、gsettings configuration etc), development, testing, packaging, etc. At the same time I participate in Ubuntu Kylin community promotion activities and ensure the daily versions generated normality.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Locally I often have to build the debian package, so I am familiar with this process, understanding usage and rules of each file in debian directory. At present, I directly manage the ubuntukylin-default-settings and ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntukylin packages. The source codes of ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntukylin should be merged into ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu source codes.
* maintaining ubuntukylin-default-settings : https://launchpad.net/ubuntukylin-default-settings
* Bugs:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1465461
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1462848
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin/+bug/1467839

=== Areas of work ===

* Continue to maintain Ubuntu Kylin packages: ubuntukylin-default-settings,ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntukylin.
* Work on other Ubuntu Kylin packages step by step and do more testing.

=== Things I could do better ===

I could do more development work, solve more bugs.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Solve bugs about Ubuntu Kylin and Ubuntu.
* manage Ubuntu Kylin packages.
* Do more contribution for Ubuntu community.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

ubuntukylin-default-settings project was originally created by me, because of work reasons I turned the management of this project over to ShuiLu Pi. In nearly 2 years he submited most of mergence and solved a lot of bugs, I think him fully qualified for the follow-up work of this package. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:penghuanmail]]</nowiki> 
ShuiLu Pi is skilled at package management. Besides ubuntukylin-default-settings, he has also been involved in several other packages such as ubuntukylin-theme, youker-assisant, ubuntu-kylin-software-center, etc. He is a smart and active boy in our team. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jackyu]]</nowiki> 
ShuiLu Pi is ambitious to packaging and he can work under high pressure and time limitation. A very nice team player! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fjkong]]</nowiki>
----
== Endorsements ==
As the primary sponsor of Ubuntu Kylin packages, I have worked with <nowiki>[[ShuiLuPi]]</nowiki> quite a lot for the package ubuntukylin-default-settings he maintains. During the time he has shown that he's technically capable of taking care of the package and is easy to communicate with, thus I support this PPU application. What I want to mention is that he needs to be more careful about every change he made because sometimes I still need to make trivial change to guard against possible unexpected harm to conditions that are not on his list of targets. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:happyaron]]</nowiki>

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
