{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== I am ===

* I am Silvia Bindelli
* I was born in 1983 in Verona (Italy)
* I currently live in Antibes (France)
* I'm a Computer Science Engineer.
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~silvia-bindelli
* <nowiki>[[http://flavors.me/SilviaBindelli|My Personal Site]]</nowiki>
* '''On IRC:''' Dolasilla

=== Ubuntu & me ===

I have been involved with the Ubuntu community since 2010, mostly in the Italian !LoCo team.

I had the pleasure of attending UDS 12.04 and partecipating to the UDS Online last May.

...in the international community: <<BR>>
* I'm in the board of the Ubuntu Women Project.
* for Ubuntu Women once I <nowiki>[[http://blog.ubuntu-women.org/2012/12/career-days-software-release-coordinator-wrap-up/|talked about my job]]</nowiki> during a Career Day.

...in the Italian !LoCo team:<<BR>>
* I'm among the administrators of the Ubuntu Italian Marketing Team

* I write on the Italian edition of the Ubuntu Newsletter and take care of its pubblication
 
* I'm a member of the Ubuntu Italian Web Team

* I coordinate the activities of the Italian localization of the Ubuntu Women Team, with various marketing activities. I've presented this initiative on #ubuntu-classroom IRC channel (find more about it <nowiki>[[http://blog.ubuntu-women.org/2013/02/irc-presentation-of-ubuntuwomen-it-summary/|here]]</nowiki>).

* I've helped with some translations inside the Italian Translations Team

=== What I do outside Ubuntu ===

I am currently working as deployment manager in a big software company in South of France. I enjoy open-air life, travelling and taking pictures around the world (some examples <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/89667434@N06/|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/dolasilla|here]]</nowiki>).
Want to know more about me? Write to me! silvia.bindelli@ubuntu-it.org

=== Testimonials ===
* A big +1 for Silvia, one of the most active members of the Italian LocoTeam. She has proven to be a great addition to our community, and did quite an impressive work within the Ubuntu-it Women Team and the Marketing Team, both of which she co-leads. She definitely deserves the membership for these credits (and for her skills with cupcakes too) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:warp10]]</nowiki>  * Since the beginning Silvia has ben a key contributor in the Italian Community. She works relentlessly and she's an example for the other contributors. She deserve the Ubuntu Membership with no doubt. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:xdatap1]]</nowiki>  * Silvia is a great asset to the Ubuntu-it Women Team, and to the Ubuntu Women one too. She has been a great and relentless contributor to the Italian !LoCo team ever since: translations, advocacing, marketing, newsletter... She truly deserve the Ubuntu membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:milo]]</nowiki>  * Silvia is a valuable resource in the Italian LoCo: she works hard, always focusing on the most important details. I follow her work with the Italian Marketing Team and the Italian Website Team and I must say that she deserves the Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:deshack]]</nowiki>  * Silvia is one of ubuntu-it most valuable person, she is very active in marketing, web, newsletter, women and something-other teams. Her contribute is precious and the Italian LoCo Team is a nice community (also) because of her. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dcavedon]]</nowiki>  * I met Silvia in the Italian Website Team when I started my adventure in Ubuntu and she helped me to acclimate in the LoCo Team. Silvia does a lot of work but, above all, she is crucial for the support she gives when you need something. A big +1 for her membership, she totally deserves it! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rpadovani]]</nowiki>  * Silvia is one of the most valuable Ubuntu contributors. She's always ready to support every initiative with competence and enthusiasm. Moreover, her effort in Ubuntu Women team is really effective. I believe Ubuntu community should be really honoured to have Silvia in! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:flavia.weisghizzi]]</nowiki> 
* Silvia is a valuable girl in the Italian LoCo; she is very active in marketing, web, and newsletter, so a big +1 for her membership, she totally deserves it! :) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:palma-salvatore]]</nowiki> 
* (don't forget to sign with your `@``SIG``@`)
