{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Membership Board Application ===

Thank you to all those who supported my application. :D

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Silver_Fox |Back]]</nowiki> to main page.

<nowiki>[[haqking]]</nowiki> - Silver_Fox gets a big +1 from me for his Ubuntu Membership Board application, as per the outline, S-fox is extremely active in the community both behind and fore the scenes, as well as insightful and helpful, very fair and socially active on the IRC channels making himself available for all manner of Community based questions.  I fully support Silver_Fox's nomination for Ubuntu Membership Board.

<nowiki>[[wildmanne39]]</nowiki> -Silver_Fox has my vote for Ubuntu Membership Board application, Siver_Fox has been an active member of the community for several years deminstrating his knowledge and kindness in every post and is also very active in IRC channels offering help and building the community to make it bigger and stronger. Silver_Fox also performs tasks on a daily basis in the background that goes unseen by most of the community. I fully support his application for Ubuntu Membership Board.

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=439120|Sidewinder1]]</nowiki> -I have known s-fox for many years; mostly from Ubuntu Forums. Being polite, knowledgeable, and helpful are just the beginning of the attributes that I could list. Suffice to say that I would not hesitate in the recommendation of s-fox to any position of authority.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~cariboo907|cariboo907]]</nowiki> -Silver_Fox has my whole hearted support in her quest to become a member of the Ubuntu Membership Board. I have worked with s-fox on the Ubuntu Forums, both as a moderator and and Administrator, and have always found the experience enjoyable. s-fox has the ability to get things done and I think she would be a good addition to the board.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~charlesa|CharlesA]]</nowiki> - s-fox gets a huge +1 from me as well. She has been active in the community and helps keep the Ubuntu forums running smoothly with his work behind the scenes. I have known s-fox for a while now, since I joined the staff in 2010 and I have only had pleasant interactions with her. I believe she will make an excellent addition to the Ubuntu Membership Board.

I know Silver_Fox for the past three years. SF played a lots of roles in various parts of the community. A worthy hand in any part of the community. SF's work in Beginners team with various ideas and organizing the team played a key role in Beginners team. I fully endorse SF's Ubuntu Membership Board Application. Good Luck SF - <nowiki>[[Mohan_chml | Mohi]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~overdrank | overdrank]]</nowiki> -Silver_Fox has my support in her quest to become a member of the Ubuntu Membership Board. Having worked with s-fox on the Ubuntu Forums, as a moderator and an Administrator. Anything that Silver_Fox does with the Ubuntu Membership Board will be a great help to the community.   

+1, especially for helping bring more of the Forums goodness out to the wider community - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jorge]]</nowiki> 
<nowiki>[[drs305 | drs305]]</nowiki> - I have worked with Silver_Fox for a number of years and heartily support this application. Absolutely an outstanding choice for this position of responsibility due to SF's demeanor, breadth of experience, and expertise. I can't think of a better representative of Ubuntu for this position.

<nowiki>[[MattHelmke | Matthew Helmke]]</nowiki> - As a former member of one of the regional approval boards and a longtime member of the Ubuntu community, I know what this job entails. As a longtime member of the forums' leadership, I have watched Silver_Fox interact with users with politeness, kindness, firmness, respect, and honesty. I give a huge +1.

<nowiki>[[nothingspecial]]</nowiki> - Silver_Fox already evaluates contributions and character for membership applicants via forums participation and does so with everything mentioned in the requirements for nominees. Along with all sorts of involvement in many other areas of the Ubuntu community I would say this experience makes Silver_Fox perfect for the role.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~coffeecat | Coffeecat]]</nowiki> - Silver_Fox has my wholehearted support as well. As a Forum Council member she is a tireless leader among leaders to whom I am grateful for the advice and encouragement she has given me in my transition firstly to moderator status and then admin on the forums. Many will be grateful too for her work in building and maintaining bridges between the forums community and wider Ubuntu community. Huge +1.

<nowiki>[[Mörgæs]]</nowiki> - I don't have much to add to what has been said above, just a +1.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nlsthzn| nlsthzn]]</nowiki> I have always held Silver_Fox in very high regards since I started using the Ubuntu Forums and seeing S.Fox's interactions with the community which I could best describe as fair, sincere and always keeping the best interest of the community in mind. Since joining the forum staff and getting to know S.Fox better it has just re-affirmed my initial thoughts and also made me see a highly motivated and competent leader, a great asset to the forums community and any other communities S.Fox will eventually play a part in. I would strongly urge S.Fox's application to the Ubuntu Membership Board be approved.

<nowiki>[[forestpiskie]]</nowiki> There really is not much that I can say that hasn't already been said - which in one way is a good thing as other's feel the same way about S.Fox as do I. This is good.

I can however say one thing that no-one else can say - forestpiskie is extremely proud of his Padawan. You would have to know the padawan's were an old term from the Beginner's Team - I have watched S.Fox for a long time become someone I am proud to know.

An enormous +1 from me.

<nowiki>[[oldos2er]]</nowiki> S.Fox is, simply, the best. I can't think of anyone more deserving of Board membership. +infinity!

<nowiki>[[BodhiZazen]]</nowiki> It is difficult to add to what has been said here. Silver_fox is a long standing, kind, and respected member of the Ubuntu Community and has worked with membership review for several years, first with the BT, then as a member of the Ubuntu Forums Staff, and finally as an Ubuntu Forums Administrator. It is a natural progression to work with the Membership Board.

<nowiki>[[cprofitt]]</nowiki> I am very pleased that s-fox (Silver Fox) is applying to server the communinty on a membership board. A long time member of the community who has proven to be fair minded, thoughtful and a good listener. Dedication to the ideals and goals of the Ubuntu project are traits s-fox has exhibited well. I am pleased to know and consider s-fox a friend.

<nowiki>[[stlsaint]]</nowiki> Shown by the amount of official Ubuntu member's who have attested to Silver_Fox motivation, leadership, kindheartedness and overall dedication to the greater Ubuntu community cause is a notion in itself. Not too much more can nor needs to be said. Silver_Fox has gone through every aspect of our ranks from new user to advanced, forum moderator/admin, MANY project leads, to sitting on boards and that's only from my personal experience not to mention having conversations just about life in general outside ubuntu. I fully support this notion as does everyone else who has had the joy to exchanged key strokes with Silver_ Fox!!! :D

<nowiki>[[NigelBabu]]</nowiki> I've known Silver Fox ever since I started contributing to Ubuntu, right from Beginners Team.  She's always been patient and friendly.  While forums wasn't my thing, I still heard about the good things she did there and in other teams.  I'm completely in support of her application to the membership board. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nigelbabu]]</nowiki> 
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Silver_Fox |Back]]</nowiki> to main page.
