{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== The Proposal ===

Recreate an Official Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team.

=== Purpose ===

1 Give people a feeling they belong to something and are not on their own, a sense of ownership.

2 Joining this team one of the way's to assist in becoming an Ubuntu member.

3 Being a member of the team would allow people to stay up to date with current bugs that are affecting many users through team channels (eg word of mouth)

4 Promoting Ubuntu on the forums. Watching out for negativity and either reporting it or responding to it in a positive way.

5 Help newcomers on the forum, with particular focus on ABT, General Help and FF&H

=== Governance ===

=== Promotion ===

{*} Announcement on Ubuntu Forums,  perhaps a sticky in ABT

{*} Front page link, similar to the proposed Ubuntu Women project

=== Incentive for Membership ===

{*} Custom Title on the Ubuntu Forums

{*} Chance to join a group of like minded individuals, both for technical discussion but also some social aspects

{*} Discussions can take place on the forum, similar to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=215 | this ]]</nowiki> page (perhaps even replace it).  Possibly also via irc

{*} Will look good if applying for Ubuntu Membership via the Ubuntu Forums

=== To Do List ===

{*} Create a member group on the forum with a custom title.  '''[ADMIN NEEDED]'''

{*} Decide on a workable system of governance (self-governed).
   
Possibly have members activities monitored by a select few (undecided yet).  Management should be minimal,  any thing that is going to cause trouble should be reported and handled by the forums staff.

{*} Submit a proposal (this wiki?) to the forum council for approval and/or modification.

{*} Make an announcement. '''[ADMIN NEEDED]'''

{*} Decide how to deal with post-membership. More so dealing with those not just 'stepping away for a while'

{*} Decide on the team forum format - private or public and create the resulting forum. '''[ADMIN NEEDED]'''

=== Possible Members ===
