{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== The Proposal ====

Create loco-like moderators for the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11 | Community Cafe]]</nowiki>
==== Purpose ====

{*} Aid the forum staff in the moderation of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11 | Community Cafe]]</nowiki>

==== Suitable Candidates ====

{*} Forum members who are active in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11 | Community Cafe]]</nowiki>, but not complete trouble makers / trolls.  I think a couple of points (expired or not) would be "okay".  Obviously fewer is better but active Cafe members seem to get infraction points for being active in the Cafe

{*} Possibly a "more well behaved" omgcheesecake member. TG comes to mind.  Added bonus of possibly improving inter-site relations

==== Why ====

{*} Many of the staff (I have confirmed) do not monitor the Cafe as few of the topics appeal to them anyway. Having an active Cafe member helping would help ease the workload of the moderation staff

{*} Active <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11 | Community Cafe]]</nowiki> members are reporting posts in the Cafe, why not let them finish the moderation process?

{*} The users who are more active in the Cafe do seem to know each other. They are a group.  Having one of their own moderating has the potential to improve the general <nowiki>[[ http:--ubuntuforums.org-showpost.php?p=8816797&postcount=1 | tone and tenor]]</nowiki> of their posts.

{*} RE: an omgcheesecake member - A chance to prove they are not all trolls. A little responsibility could improve their general attitude towards the Ubuntu Forums.  Additionally '''if''' the position is abused then we can always undo whatever they do.  It is their chance, I do not think the chance will be blown. 
