{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== ''About Me'' ===

Hey there! My name is Jens, maybe better known as NRWlion or silverlion on the freenode IRC Community. I'm 30 years old and located in North-Rhine Westfalia (GER).

Ubuntu itself first got my attention back in 2006 when I was looking for an alternative for a Win 2k License that had expired. Back then I installed the Dapper Drake with KDE and was able to manage basic functions such as word processing and internet right from the start. I liked the idea behind Ubuntu and tried to learn more. Sadly – due to my educational process moving on from secondary school to university – I was kind of forced to move back to Windows because formats made by open office did not show correctly on M$ Office Software.

2011 how ever I came into a similar situation like 2006 and remembered Ubuntu. Quickly installed I was able to at least got the basic things done at home (had to re-do the formats every time prior to a presentation though but that didn't matter). I started to hang out on the IRC channels of Ubuntu and quickly met phillw whom I still consider my personal jedi master.

However, in 2012 I was forced to leave the community for urgent private matters in RL but always kept contact and monitored the progress. Now, in 2014, these issues are nearly settled and I re-joined the Lubuntu Team to take responsibility in Lubuntu Communications Team to help them spreading the word about the benefits of Lubuntu.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name''':
| Silverlion
|-
| '''Country of Origin''':
| Germany (GMT +1)
|-
| '''Email''':
| silverlion@posteo.org
|-
| '''IRC''':
| silverlion @ #Freenode
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| https://launchpad.net/~silverlion
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1918536
|}

=== Currently on Duty at ===
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de| Ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>

=== Former Duties: ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-comms|Lubuntu Communications (Team-Leader)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-brainstorming|Lubuntu Brainstorming (Admin & Coordinator)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-admins|Lubuntu Admins]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

==== Lubuntu Comms ====
* __Lubuntu Screencasts__
** <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLr_9T1Y3Hngbp6S11un8TQL87VOlGmjEl|Overview of the produced videos]]</nowiki>
* __Supervision of the Lubuntu Social Media Channels__
** <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/LubuntuOfficial|Twitter]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/Lubuntu.Official.Page|Offical Facebook Announcement Page]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/lubuntu.official/|Official Facebook Group]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/communities/102737741860934586009|G+ Community]]</nowiki>
* __Presentations of Lubuntu__
** <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3jkAq1WJ7bs|G+Hangout "Introduction to Lubuntu"]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

My future plans can be easily divided into two categories:

I. short-term
 i. -- First of all, success starts with a solid basis and for communities this means a well-developed and networked infrastructure that every distro can benefit from.
 i. Secondly, Lubuntu Communications may be able to prepare materials, but we also need the help of locals. Therefore, a cross-linking to the Loco teams must be created to give us feedback from first-hand on how we can improve our strategies of "marketing".
I. medium-term
 i. ("Closing Windows" - a campaign consisting of a series of screencasts and an eBook which is designed to simplify the Linux newbie to start with Lubuntu.)--
 i. creation of a documentation about our processes for other Communications teams to facilitate.

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @``SIG@. The @``SIG@ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

I've had the extreme pleasure of working with silverlion for several years now. He's very good at what he does, and is always willing to help and share his knowledge with others.
He's been very helpful to me in many areas especially with the communication and marketing areas among other things. Even when he had to take temporary leave of his roles due to RL issues
he handed over smoothly and did keep in touch as and when time would allow.  His work with the Lubuntu Team has always been above and beyond awesome.
He's always ready to answer any questions concerning how to be an advocate for not just Lubuntu but F/OSS in general. He is always available to encourage those who are advocates.
To have him return, after a brief spell away for RL issues, has reinvigorated communications area and as he and the Team Leader of our artwork team get on so well, it has also reinvigorated the
marketing team, as this is where these two team leaders must work together to push both Lubuntu and all of F/OSS forward. I ask that you look favourably upon his application. <nowiki>[[phillw]]</nowiki> 11th July 2014

Jens is more than a useful Ubuntu contributor, he's a friend. Working beside him makes you understand how pleasant can be helping others. His skills on supporting people, helping them at any media platform like Facebook, YouTube, etc. and cooperating with the Lubuntu Artwork Team, creating great Marketing campaigns is a unique experience that enriched myself.
He's a hard worker, collaborative, tireless, kind, and I can say the Artwork and Marketing areas of Lubuntu wouldn't be the same without him, as we're creating great things to spread the use of Ubuntu and its derivatives (incredibly well mounted video tutorials, impeccable redacted wiki pages, astonishing ideas for new advertising campaigns...). I have no doubt he will be a great addition to our crew. So I highly recommend his application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rafaellaguna]]</nowiki> 
One word I can offer for for silverlion: professional. He approaches his efforts as if it was his job, not just volunteerism. He goes out of his way to find constant improvement in his evangelism efforts. He's got a wonderful personality, too. He sets the bar high for how we should all act in the community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:wxl23]]</nowiki> 
I don't know Jens for a long time, but he's a nice guy with strong communication skills. In fact, if he has a problem or proposal, he knows who to ask and how to ask. "Closing Windows" is the logical successor of StartUbuntu and has some really good ideas. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:joern-schoenyan]]</nowiki> 
I know Jens for the past 4 years. He is always willing to take up tasks, open to suggestions and works for the betterment of the team. His efforts on Lubuntu team is highly supportive and motivating for the team. A F(L)OSS  advocate and (L)Ubuntu enthusiast who makes a difference in his workplace. Jens, I appreciate your commitment and efforts on making Ubuntu family a better one and I wish you great success in the community. -- <nowiki>[[Mohan_chml| Mohi]]</nowiki> 