{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~flibblesan|flibblesan]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://flibblesan.co.uk/
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/flibblesan
|-
| '''Forums''':
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=3224
|}
=== About Me ===
I'm 30 years old and currently living in Nottingham, UK. I'm know as flibblesan in many places on-line which was my attempt of a Japanese version of 'Mr Flibble'. I'm a member of the Nottingham Linux User Group and I have been running Linux for the last 10 years. I first started with a PC Plus cover disc edition of SUSE and moved onto Red Hat, Fedora and finally settling on Ubuntu with the release of 4.10 Warty Warthog in 2004. I've never locked back and I've always run a dual-booting system with Windows and Ubuntu which latest until October 2009 when I finally made Ubuntu my default operating system and using Windows purely for running Steam (as I seriously love my games).

=== What I do in the Ubuntu world ===
In the past I have answered support questions on Launchpad and I intend to start doing this again. I am a member of the Ubuntu Forums and I've started posting again and helping other people get the most out of Ubuntu. Off-line I have helped many friends switch to Ubuntu and assisted new members to the local LUG to try Ubuntu and switch from Windows. My knowledge of Ubuntu is increasing all the time thanks to the community, and I really intend to give a lot back to help new members.
