{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Who I am ===

I'm Simos Xenitellis, member of the Ubuntu-gr (Greece) team and localisation contributor for the Greek language. My academic background is in Computer Science. I have been involved in FOSS localisation for the last ten years.

=== Contact me! ===

* '''Email:''' simos.lists@googlemail.com
* '''Blog:''' http://simos.info/blog (bi-lingual)
* '''OpenPGP:''' <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xD6E80AE55CC1DBD95A3DE09261D6FCF0B8AE9849|B8AE9849]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC:''' simosx @ freenode
* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~simosx]]</nowiki>
* '''Identi.ca:''' <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/simosx]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===
* Active member of the Greek LoCo team (<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-gr.org/|Ubuntu-gr]]</nowiki>) since 2006.
* Actively contributing to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~simosx|bug reports at Launchpad]]</nowiki>, either general bug reports or related to internationalization; linking bug reports to upstream.
* <nowiki>[[http://foundation.gnome.org/membership/members.php|Member of the GNOME Foundation]]</nowiki> and active contributor to GNOME.
* Team coordinator for the <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/languages/el/|Greek GNOME localisation project]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/languages/el/|My team]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/releases/gnome-2-26/|completed the localisation of GNOME 2.26]]</nowiki> for both the UI and documentation, an effort that makes Ubuntu more accessible to Greek-speaking users.
* Moderator at the <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-gr.org|forum.ubuntu-gr.org]]</nowiki> forum. The forum is the official forum of the Ubuntu-Gr community and has currently reached 2900 members.
* Strong involvement with <nowiki>[[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/~simosx|Ubuntu Answers]]</nowiki> (in 2007 I reached 7000 karma points).
* Attended <nowiki>[[http://blog.daviey.com/blogroll/ubuntu-uk-community-bug-jam-09.html|London Bugjam '09]]</nowiki>.
* Redesigned the Greek keyboard layout with the result that the default keyboard settings in Ubuntu offer access to modern Greek, ancient Greek (Polytonic) and classical characters.
* I am <nowiki>[[http://translationproject.org/team/el.html|team coordinator for Greek with the Translation Project]]</nowiki>. Translations that take place in Launchpad are sent upstream.
* Summer of Code 2008: <nowiki>[[https://github.com/simos/keyboardlayouteditor/tree|Keyboard layout editor]]</nowiki>
* Summer of Code 2009: Input method support for the SDL library; Linux environment (ongoing).

=== Future Plans ===
* Keep promoting free and open-source software through the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-gr.org/|Ubuntu-gr community activities]]</nowiki>.
* Help more Ubuntu-gr members qualify and apply to become Ubuntu members.
* Complete the Greek localisation of Ubuntu packages that are maintained within Launchpad.

=== Testimonials ===
Simos is actively contributing in the Greek Ubuntu and GNOME team for many years. He has been helping many Ubuntu users with his answers and making good work with promoting Ubuntu and GNOME. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~phantomas|Fotis Tsamis]]</nowiki>

I would say Simos is our team's rock star :) He has been helping out with the Greek LoCo since I can remember, doing i18n, l10n bug triage for Ubuntu+GNOME, translations, user support in mailing list and forum, participating in i18n-l10n workshops and presentations in conferences in Greece and abroad and the list goes on.. Another great skill of his is to spot worrying team member behaviors and resolving them early, before the become a bigger problem. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~alefteris|Thanos Lefteris]]</nowiki>

Simos is contributing for many years in various open source projects, and he is is one of the most influential members in the Greek open source community.<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pkst]]</nowiki>

Simos is one of the founding members of ubuntu-gr LoCo team. He is activelly contributing to issues releated with greek localization and greek language support in Gnome and Ubuntu for many years. He has also contributed to the greek and greek politonic keyboard layout. Simos is also an enthusiast free software and ubuntu supporter and promoter. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ktogias|Konstantinos Togias]]</nowiki>

I believe Simos has an excellent ability to communicate with people, organize and motivate team work and avoid conflicts between the members of a project. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~logari81]]</nowiki>

Simos has always been very active in the community. He activelly translates many packages to greek, especially the GNOME and provides everyday support, especially to the ones that need it more -the newcomers-. As stated above, great communication skills, active in conferences, mailing lists, forums, irc. A unique member of the greek communities of both Ubuntu and GNOME. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~seadog|Giorgos Logiotatidis]]</nowiki> 

Simos, being one of the most influential members of Ubuntu-gr, actively contributes/leads translations/greek-localization, constantly provides help to newbies and experienced users, and participates in mailing list, forum (moderator), and IRC. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~paraponiaris|Ilias Paraponiaris]]</nowiki>

Simos is one of the most valuable members of the Greek FOSS community, both as a developer and as a coordinator. --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~alkisg|Alkis Georgopoulos]]</nowiki>
