{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Who am I? ===
I'm Simon Steinbeiss (surprise surprise!). I studied Philosophy and Religios Studies (not Theology!). The computery-stuff (as I like to call it) has always been a hobby, but I didn't get further than basic PHP, Perl and MySQL skills, that's why I mostly focus on contributing artwork.

=== My work ===

==== Ubuntu ====
* Started helping out with Xubuntu stuff (creating comprehensive application comparisons etc.) for 9.10
* Unofficially joined the Xubuntu developers creating artwork (10.04, 10.10, 11.04), main focus on gtk/xfwm-themes and icons
* Created two gtk-themes for Xubuntu, <nowiki>[[http://shimmerproject.org/project/bluebird/|Bluebird]]</nowiki> (10.10) and <nowiki>[[http://shimmerproject.org/project/greybird/|Greybird]]</nowiki> (11.04)

==== Non-Ubuntu ====
I've always been passionate about Xfce, so I started trying to contribute upstream, e.g. by starting up initiatives like the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xfce.org/design/start|Design SIG]]</nowiki>. I also love <nowiki>[[http://gmusicbrowser.org|gmusicbrowser]]</nowiki>, where I contribute (<nowiki>[[http://shimmerproject.org/project/gmusicbrowser/|plugins, artwork, layouts]]</nowiki>) from time to time - even more so now that it's the default player in Xubuntu.
After the Karmic cycle I joined <nowiki>[[http://shimmerproject.org/|Shimmer Project]]</nowiki>, which is my main focus now.

=== Contact info ===
* '''IRC:''' ''ochosi'' @ irc.freenode.net
* '''E-mail:''' ochosi@shimmerproject.org
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~simon-steinbeiss
* '''Open source blog:''' http://shimmerproject.org/news

=== Testimonials of others ===

Simon has been working to improve Xubuntu's theme and other artwork. He has shown understanding and patience when answering user questions, both on mailing lists and IRC in the #xubuntu channel. He shows an outstanding capability to explain at a level the user understands. His continuous efforts to improve the distribution are commendable. His input when discussing any reviews and changes to default applications are very insightful and thoughtful. Simon is an insightful individual with a goal to improve open-source software. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:charlie-tca]]</nowiki>  
