{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Simon Santoro ==

== Santoro Simon ==

=== History ===

* 15/06/1980 - born in Bozen (Italy).
* 15/08/1998 - 4 months in York (England) as an exchange student.
* 20/09/2001 - released from the military service.
* 07/07/2001 - Degree at the high school I.T.I. "G. Galilei" in Bozen -Electronics and Telecommunications.
* 11/07/2001 - Employed at the Suedtiroler Informatik AG as programmer.

Works with Powerbuilder, Oracle, Visual basic on the internal administration
software for projects and services.

Works at the production of invoicing software for 20 old people's homes
and integrated applications for the social services in South Tyrol with
ORACLE, XML, XSLT, PL/SQL, Powerbuilder, Apache.

20/10/2003 - Get experiences with C# .NET and Winforms.

14/06/2004 - MCP certified - Developing and Implementing Windows based
Applications with Microsoft Visual C # NET and Microsoft Visual studio
NET.

28/11/2004 - Speaker at the South Tyrolian Free Software Conference
2004 (SFScon - Linux Day): Linux Powered Car.

=== Knowledge ===

* Programming:
** Java
** J2ME - different applications for Mobile data acquisition
** J2SE
** J2EE
** C# .NET - MCP certified
** Visual basic - integration with MS Office Suite (Excel, Word,
ACCESS, PowerPoint)
** Sybase Powerbuilder - 3+ years experience in the programming of management -, invoicing and time registration programs
** PL/SQL Oracle - 3+ years experience in programming on Oracle -
Web and Client server
** XML/XSL/XSLT
** C/C++
** Assembler
** Perl - different Web and Client server applications with the Tk
and Gtk Toolkit; Oracle, MySQL and PostgreSQL as backend
** PHP
** BASH
** VBScript
** Javascript
** XUL
** HTML

* Networking:
** Web services
** Wireless Technologies
** Apache
** Terminal server
** Citrix
** SSH (1 and 2)
** sFTP/tFTP/ftp
** Smtp/POP3 - qmail, sendmail, post office-fixed
** DNS - BIND and others
** DHCP
** Firewall - IPTables
** SAMBA

Experience in ORACLE, XML and integration with Web applications over
ORACLE.
Web service configurations, theory of Protocols.
Operating systems BSD, Linux (above all Debian GNU/Linux and Redhat),
Windows 3.1/95/98/NT/2000/XP.

=== Languages ===

* German - native language
* Italian - very good
* English - very well

=== Interests ===

Films, development of software and innovative solutions also in the
spare time, 3D diagram, video rendering,
film assembly and 2D animations. Walk. Swim.

=== Contact ===

Phone: +39 - 329 - 5341830

Address:
<pre>
via S. Vigilio 60
39100 Bolzano (BZ)
Italy
</pre>
----
CategoryHomepage
