{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:simplify-removable-drives-and-media
* '''Created''': 2007-10-26
* '''Packages affected''': gnome-volume-properties

=== Summary ===

Update the 'Removable Drives and Media' window to use the same gui drop-down list style (with the 'custom' option) as the 'Preferred Applications' window.

=== Rationale ===

It is important for new users to be able to switch between different applications in this window without having to enter command-line commands. For a normal user to currently switch to a different app requires that they search the web for the correct command and options to enter. They should just be able to select it from a drop-down list.

=== Use Cases ===

Bob likes F-Spot better than gThumb for managing photos, but when he plugs in his camera, it automatically asks to import them into gThumb. He goes to the Removable Drives and Media window, and selects F-Spot from the list under the Cameras tab.

=== Design ===

Identical to the design currently implemented in Preferred Applications.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
