{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/virtualbox
* '''Packages affected''': xen-kernel-modules, qemu, kqemu-source, kvm, kvm-source, vmplayer, vmware-kernel-modules

=== Summary ===
Recently I discovered [VirtualBox http://www.virtualbox.org/], a simple, painless and open source personal virtualization solution, I think that Ubuntu could utilize this as the perfect transition, its not a solution for gamers, but it gives people a greater degree of flexability when trying out something new.

=== Rationale ===
Its time to start thinging about this, I'm proposing a comprehensive wizard/anaconda like solution by Festy+1, we are are sitting right on the edge of something big, and the technology is just getting into that realistic zone. 

=== Use cases ===
* Primarily home users, people who might occasionally need access to Windows for work or a class, but on their home machines, prefer not to use it. 
* Legacy Applications, like it or not, some businesses still run software written a long time ago in a galaxy far far away, virtualization isn't just Windows running in Linux, it allows you to relive those childhood memories of DOS. ;)

=== Scope ===
Nothing unbelivable, the frontrunner for such a role (at least from my point of view, at the moment) is VirtualBox, simply because there was almost nothing to the install or configuration already, its already packaged for Ubuntu. The primary focus would be on testing/stability, human documentation, and as simple a setup process as humanly possible.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
