{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ligar as cores para sintaxe no vim é bastante simples.

Na home folder criar um novo ficheiro ".vimrc"

Abrir o ficheiro e copiar o seguinte bloco de código:

<pre>
" An example for a vimrc file. 
" 
" Maintainer: Bram Moolenaar 
" Last change: 2002 May 28 
" 
" To use it, copy it to 
" for Unix and OS/2: ~/.vimrc 
" for Amiga: s:.vimrc 
" for MS-DOS and Win32: $VIM\_vimrc 
" for OpenVMS: sys$login:.vimrc 

" When started as "evim", evim.vim will already have done these settings. 
"if v:prognAme =~? "evim" 
" finish 
"endif 

" Use Vim settings, rather then Vi settings (much better!). 
" This must be first, because it changes other options as a side effect. 
set nocompatible 

" allow backspacing over everything in insert mode 
set backspace=indent,eol,start 

set autoindent " always set autoindenting on 
"if has("vms") 
set nobackup " do not keep a backup file, use versions instead 
"else 
" set backup " keep a backup file 
"endif 
set history=50 " keep 50 lines of command line history 
set ruler " show the cursor position all the time 
set showcmd " display incomplete commands 
set incsearch " do incremental searching 

" For Win32 GUI: remove 't' flag from 'guioptions': no tearoff menu entries 
" let &guioptions = substitute(&guioptions, "t", "", "g") 

" Don't use Ex mode, use Q for formatting 
map Q gq 

" This is an alternative that also works in block mode, but the deleted 
" text is lost and it only works for putting the current register. 
"vnoremap p "_dp 

" Switch syntax highlighting on, when the terminal has colors 
" Also switch on highlighting the last used search pattern. 
if &t_Co > 2 || has("gui_running") 
 syntax on 
 set hlsearch 
endif 

" Only do this part when compiled with support for autocommands. 
if has("autocmd") 

" Enable file type detection. 
" Use the default filetype settings, so that mail gets 'tw' set to 72, 
" 'cindent' is on in C files, etc. 
" Also load indent files, to automatically do language-dependent indenting. 
filetype plugin indent on 

" For all text files set 'textwidth' to 78 characters. 
autocmd FileType text setlocal textwidth=78 

endif
</pre>

Feito.

Créditos vão para <nowiki>[[http://helpdesk.cs.tamu.edu/docs/vim]]</nowiki>

From BrianWiese Tue May 10 19:06:24 +0100 2005
From: BrianWiese
Date: Tue, 10 May 2005 19:06:24 +0100
Subject: Thanks! "syntax on"
Message-ID: <20050510190624+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

The one line you'll need to uncomment from the original .vimrc that comes with Ubuntu is the line that comments out the "syntax on" statement.  Edit your ~/.vimrc to look like this:

" Vim5 and later versions support syntax highlighting. Uncommenting the next
" line enables syntax highlighting by default.
 syntax on

or as using Bram's suggestion above:

" Switch syntax highlighting on, when the terminal has 
" Also switch on highlighting the last used search patt
if &t_Co > 2 || has("gui_running")                     
syntax on                                            
set hlsearch                                         
endif 
