{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Welcome ====
My name is <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sitix|Edwin Dijk]]</nowiki>, and I am the owner of the Dutch company <nowiki>[[http://www.sitix.nl/|Sitix]]</nowiki>. I am currently working on two major projects, of which there is one I would like to discuss here. Then I am talking about the progress, usability and reliability of that project. The before mentioned project is called <nowiki>[[http://www.ansic.net/|ANSIC.net]]</nowiki>. Together with an American friend (who is an outstanding programmer, really helping me with this website) I'm working on creating an online resource for people who program in ANSI C. Of course there are several websites one can get information from, but none have been actually simple and user friendly. The interface is supposed to be inspired by the <nowiki>[[http://www.php.net/|PHP website]]</nowiki>, only slightly more my style and of course without stuff that does not apply to ANSI C. (The news section would, for example, be slightly overrated!) However, we are still working on the underlying system, so the amount of functions actually on the website is currently rather low. This will change in time, I'm certain.

==== ANSI C ====
This project can be found at <nowiki>[[http://www.ansic.net/|http://www.ansic.net/]]</nowiki>. Soon I will specify this section.

==== Note ====
This Wiki is still under construction. Soon I will have some more interesting information listed here. Please come back later.
