{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== sjalex ==

Stephen Alexander

From StephenAlexander Thu Apr 7 04:39:31 +0100 2005
From: Stephen Alexander
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2005 04:39:31 +0100
Subject: tinkering
Message-ID: <20050407043931+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

I'm currently deciding if I want to stick with kubuntu. I cut my teeth on slackware and I learned a LOT from it, but I got sick of doing everything manually for my laptop. It's better as a set-it-and-forget-it server platform because you really have to tangle with the nuts and bolts. I'm using kubuntu now and I like it. I clicked a link from slashdot, backed up my mailfile to a thumb drive, and went for it. I like the new KDE a lot. I had used debian extensively in the past but until I found kubuntu I had been unaware of kynaptic. It's a godsend, I must say. makes package maintenance so much easier than dselect. I get bored with OS's easily, but I think I will likely stick with kubuntu on my laptop and keep Gentoo on my server machine and use the old Quadra for netbsd once I get the mobo replaced.

From StephenAlexander Thu Apr 7 04:40:36 +0100 2005
From: Stephen Alexander
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2005 04:40:36 +0100
Subject: sjalex
Message-ID: <20050407044036+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

That's my usual handle and I'll use it here for shorthand. The J is my middle initial.
----
CategoryHomepage
