{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== WARNING: WORK IN PROGRESS ==
X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-( {X} X-(

'''I, Stephen Michael Kellat, apply for upload rights for the packageset xubuntu or a subset thereof to allow upload rights for xubuntu-docs.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Stephen Michael Kellat
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~skellat
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/skellat
|}

== Who I am ==

By training I am a professional librarian.  I write documentation for Xubuntu.  I currently serve as Lo``Co leader for Ubuntu Ohio and have been trying to spark activity within the group.  I herd ARM boards while still using x86 machines on occasion.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Within Ubuntu, I initially started trying the various flavors in 2008.  I left for a little while to try openSUSE until their PowerPC support faded below Ubuntu's level of support.  Since moving from Nevada back to Ohio I have taken part in the activities of the Ohio LoCo in increasing stages to where I am now the Lo``Co leader.  Since UDS-1303 I have dug in hard to help improve documentation for Xubuntu and contributed a new chapter to xubuntu-docs.  During the preparations for the Quantal cycle I advocated for the inclusion of apt-offline which we are now planning to include in the Saucy release.

I use computers in a world where always-online Internet access is an ideal but not always reality.  In rural Ohio I have to contend with infrastructure failures that happen at inconvenient times.  I advocate for improving offline resources to avoid "chicken and the egg" situations with what is shipped on the Live``CD so that users can thrive even in resource-challenged environments.  Adequate broadband access only exists for 70% of United States residents and we have to make sure to not leave the other 30% behind.

=== My involvement ===

My involvement has been focused on editing and getting merges approved for xubuntu-docs to improve documentation and synchronize it to release goals.  Though I am trying to learn to code software my primary goal at this time is to ensure that the friction level for users is reduced by having adequate documentation available at-hand.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I am proud of creating our <nowiki>[[http://docs.xubuntu.org/1304/offline-packages.html | offline package management chapter]]</nowiki> text from scratch.

=== Areas of work ===

In work on xubuntu-docs, I cooperate heavily with <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:knome]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lyz]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Unit193]]</nowiki> in creating and updating documentation.  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:knome]]</nowiki> has asked me on occasion to seek sponsored upload for xubuntu-docs after he has made commits to help reduce load on our two main developers but I want to take things to the next level to be able to upload on my own.

=== Things I could do better ===

Avoid avoidable typos when proposing merges.  I missed a minor typo in the new chapter that shipped on the Raring Ringtail disc.  For the nine months of support, I have to live with that mistake that I missed in that bit of documentation creation.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

Write more documentation

=== Specific ===

** Learn at least one programming language so that I can help in the creation of software.
** Learn how to properly package software to bring new tools to our universe of software
** Accept further responsibility within Xubuntu as the Project Leader may be pleased to entrust to me
** Write at least one new chapter for xubuntu-docs during the Saucy cycle

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

We argue a wee bit too much.  We barely get to painting the bikeshed because we are stuck at the paint store some times.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
