{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Message to the LoCo sent April 7, 2013 ====
----
Good afternoon.

As of today the High Council of Ubuntu Ohio is taking a breather by
ceasing to operate for the time being.  The e-mail address for the High
Council also no longer functions.  It is time to give thanks to Cheri
Francis, Michael Gilbert, Jon Buckley, Jacob Peddicord, and Paul
Tagliamonte for their periods of service on that body over the past
three years.

At this time I am the designated Point of Contact for our Local
Community Team on Launchpad.  The length of term for this is open-ended
at this time.  Ubuntu Ohio encompasses users of all flavors of the
common core whether you favor Unity, KDE, Xfce, GNOME 3, or LXDE.  I
must reiterate that we have a big tent here and are not solely focused
on the desktop environment named Unity but rather the unity that comes
from the common core in software we all utilize.

Looking ahead, our near-term goal is to prepare for participation in
Ohio Linux Fest 2013.  In the long term we are going to need to
strengthen the core of our community by mentoring members of our
community so as to increase the number of Ubuntu Members that we have
located here in the Buckeye State.  Slowly but surely we will be looking
forward to new horizons that will require new and interesting approaches.

Many adventures lay ahead.  Let us move forward boldly as we near the
end of the Raring Ringtail cycle and prepare for the Virtual Ubuntu
Developer Summit in May.

Stephen Michael Kellat
