{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by knome at 20:04:00 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-05-16-20.04.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Blog article about "Three Nights of Xubuntu"
knome, skellat and pleia2 have put up an article about the two Xubuntu sessions to be posted on xubuntu.org  (knome, 20:06:30)
knome will move it to xubuntu.org today for reviewing  (knome, 20:07:40)

* Xubuntu team members

* Strategy Document reviewing
''ACTION:'' [knome] Rewrite the XPL voting part in the SD for the team to review and vote on: TODO  (knome, 20:16:55)

* UDS Day 3 Community Roundtable's Discussion Assessing vUDS Structure

skellat was present in capacity as a LoCo leader. (SEE ALSO: http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=dF-5Ba4ApgA)  (skellat, 20:18:49)

Discussion ensued among those present as to the hours and nature of the meetings.  (skellat, 20:18:55)

Laura Czajkowski raised the issue of seemingly fewer women attending.  (skellat, 20:19:02)

Randall Ross asked that weekend hours be considered to better accommodate potential participants.  (skellat, 20:19:08)

skellat noted that Xubuntu was holding a parallel set of meeting hours to accommodate divergent available hours as well as to include members across Asia and the Pacific.  (skellat, 20:19:14)

At this time Jono's group is reviewing how the second virtual UDS has run and we may or may not see further changes by the next anticipated sessions in August 2013.  Time zone shifting was discussed as a possibility to better accommodate Asia/Pacific and Eastern Europe.  (skellat, 20:19:25)

''IDEA:'' It is recommended that we consider our actions during the May 2013 UDS timeframe and assess how we might utilize our current experience in holding further computer-mediated team sessions during the Saucy Salamander cycle.  (skellat, 20:19:32)

''ACTION:'' [knome] Set up meeting schedule (IRC and Hangout meetings with vUDS in mind) and send to ML: TODO  (knome, 20:32:57)

''IDEA:'' Consider retention policy for hangouts on YouTube compared to the retention policy for IRC logs?  (skellat, 20:34:59)

* LSC

''LINK:'' https://code.launchpad.net/~lubuntu-software-center-team/light-software-center/trunk   (Unit193, 21:29:18)

''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/raring/+source/synaptic/+changelog little info here at least.  (Unit193, 21:37:21)

Meeting ended at 21:40:59 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* YouTube videos of Hangouts: Keep forever (+1) or not (-1)   (only those who had a camera can vote)
   For: 3 Against: 5 Abstained: 0

* Shall the Nights of Xubuntu videos be allowed to archived by a member of the Community Council outside of remaining on YouTube?
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 2

* Keep videos of Hangouts up for a limited time (+1) or delete directly after the session has ended (-1)? Everbody can vote.
   For: 3 Against: 2 Abstained: 1

* Should we keep the 3NoX session recordings up for the Saucy cycle (+1) or delete them instantly (-1) ?
   For: 3 Against: 1 Abstained: 3

=== Action items ===

* [knome] Rewrite the XPL voting part in the SD for the team to review and vote on: TODO
* [knome] Set up meeting schedule (IRC and Hangout meetings with vUDS in mind) and send to ML: TODO

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
* * [knome] Rewrite the XPL voting part in the SD for the team to review and vote on: TODO
* * [knome] Set up meeting schedule (IRC and Hangout meetings with vUDS in mind) and send to ML: TODO

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (230)
* elfy (90)
* pleia2 (76)
* ochosi (64)
* meetingology (63)
* skellat (58)
* Unit193 (32)
* lderan (18)
* Noskcaj (16)

=== Full Log ===

 20:04:00 <knome> #startmeeting Three nights of Xubuntu: Night 3

 20:04:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu May 16 20:04:00 2013 UTC.  The chair is knome. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:04:00 <meetingology> 

 20:04:00 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 20:04:07 <knome> #chair skellat

 20:04:07 <meetingology> Current chairs: knome skellat

 20:04:59 <lderan> o/

 20:05:00 <pleia2> o/

 20:05:01 <elfy> o/

 20:05:02 <knome> We won't be having a Hangout today, and we've ran through all the items on the session blueprints, so the word and agenda are free: is there something else you'd like to discuss?

 20:05:07 <knome> #chair pleia2 elfy

 20:05:07 <meetingology> Current chairs: elfy knome pleia2 skellat

 20:05:19 <knome> #chair lderan

 20:05:19 <meetingology> Current chairs: elfy knome lderan pleia2 skellat

 20:05:20 <ochosi> o/

 20:05:23 <knome> #chair ochosi

 20:05:23 <meetingology> Current chairs: elfy knome lderan ochosi pleia2 skellat

 20:05:54 <knome> #topic Blog article about "Three Nights of Xubuntu"

 20:06:30 <knome> #info knome, skellat and pleia2 have put up an article about the two Xubuntu sessions to be posted on xubuntu.org

 20:07:16 <skellat> A last look by others prior to posting would be helpful, I presume.

 20:07:22 <knome> yes

 20:07:29 <knome> i will be pushing it to xubuntu.org today

 20:07:40 <knome> #info knome will move it to xubuntu.org today for reviewing

 20:07:44 <skellat> Do we have a link that can be shared to the current draft?

 20:07:51 <knome> not at the moment

 20:08:03 <knome> it's invite only, but i'll move it after the meeting, so it'll be accessible soon

 20:08:08 <skellat> OK

 20:08:18 <skellat> pleia2: Any thoughts as to the article?

 20:09:03 <pleia2> it's good

 20:09:31 <knome> i was wondering if we're pointing out too much that we're "in line" with other flavors

 20:09:43 <knome> it's brought up twice, and it got my attention

 20:11:00 <skellat> I'm iffy on that.  Yes, I wrote it.  I just felt at the time some strange need to show small-u unity.

 20:11:05 <knome> anyway, we can think about that when i've moved it to xubuntu.org

 20:11:16 <knome> #topic Xubuntu team members

 20:11:27 <knome> i propose to add skellat to xubuntu-team!

 20:11:52 <ochosi> +1

 20:12:20 <knome> imo other prospective contributors for memberships are lderan, jack fromm (docs guy) if they keep on contributing as they have done so far

 20:12:36 <lderan> i do plan on doing so

 20:12:41 <knome> that's great :)

 20:12:46 <elfy> :)

 20:13:14 <ochosi> sounds good to me

 20:13:45 <knome> otoh,  people who need to step up to keep their memberships are: GridCube, maddernick, Unit193

 20:14:13 <knome> Unit193 has been showing raised motivation though :)

 20:14:22 <Unit193> I have? :P

 20:14:23 <ochosi> (sounds a bit like the "tip-of-the-hat â€“ wag-of-my-finger segment of stephen colbert, for those that know it)

 20:14:29 <knome> (just speak up more often and don't think it's unnecessary!)

 20:14:35 <ochosi> +1

 20:14:52 <knome> i'm thinking this also because...

 20:14:57 <elfy> I'd +1 that as well - but then I'd be saying too much :)

 20:14:59 <Unit193> Yeah, that part...

 20:15:05 <knome> #topic Strategy Document reviewing

 20:15:52 <knome> i discussed it with various members in the team, and we all thought it would be more appropriate to have xubuntu-team voting the new XPL, not xubuntu-users

 20:16:55 <knome> #action [knome] Rewrite the XPL voting part in the SD for the team to review and vote on: TODO

 20:16:55 * meetingology [knome] Rewrite the XPL voting part in the SD for the team to review and vote on: TODO

 20:17:07 <knome> (sorry for being lazy and using the work item syntax directly....)

 20:17:30 <knome> #chair Unit193

 20:17:30 <meetingology> Current chairs: Unit193 elfy knome lderan ochosi pleia2 skellat

 20:17:50 <knome> (if you want to start a new topic, just say "#topic New topic" so it's added to the minutes)

 20:18:10 <knome> (those who aren't in the chairs list, poke one of the chairs first to add you)

 20:18:43 <skellat> #topic UDS Day 3 Community Roundtable's Discussion Assessing vUDS Structure

 20:18:49 <skellat> #info skellat was present in capacity as a LoCo leader. (SEE ALSO: http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=dF-5Ba4ApgA)

 20:18:55 <skellat> #info Discussion ensued among those present as to the hours and nature of the meetings.

 20:19:02 <skellat> #info Laura Czajkowski raised the issue of seemingly fewer women attending.

 20:19:08 <skellat> #info Randall Ross asked that weekend hours be considered to better accommodate potential participants.

 20:19:14 <skellat> #info skellat noted that Xubuntu was holding a parallel set of meeting hours to accommodate divergent available hours as well as to include members across Asia and the Pacific.

 20:19:15 <knome> +1

 20:19:25 <skellat> #info At this time Jono's group is reviewing how the second virtual UDS has run and we may or may not see further changes by the next anticipated sessions in August 2013.  Time zone shifting was discussed as a possibility to better accommodate Asia/Pacific and Eastern Europe.

 20:19:32 <skellat> #idea It is recommended that we consider our actions during the May 2013 UDS timeframe and assess how we might utilize our current experience in holding further computer-mediated team sessions during the Saucy Salamander cycle.

 20:19:47 <knome> was there any discussion about a possible real-life uds?

 20:19:54 <skellat> Nope

 20:20:17 <skellat> I did raise the point that in-person discussion works better

 20:20:24 <skellat> That point really didn't go anywhere

 20:20:35 <knome> it's weird that they give out that recommendation now - as if they had already decided that they'll keep with the virtual meetings

 20:20:51 <skellat> Oh, that's my recommendation

 20:20:58 <knome> oh, ok :)

 20:21:01 <ochosi> i'm also wondering whether we should do hangouts more often as a team...

 20:21:04 <knome> then nvm me.

 20:21:09 <knome> ochosi, +1 now and then

 20:21:11 <skellat> knome: It is okay

 20:21:16 <Noskcaj> ochosi, +1

 20:21:18 <knome> but preparation should be better then

 20:21:21 <ochosi> yup

 20:21:25 <elfy> ochosi: might be good - I'd maybe even get a mic ...

 20:21:32 * ochosi admits he was poorly prepared...

 20:21:32 <knome> or we should have a clear agenda with people marked running each item

 20:21:35 <skellat> Randall Ross was a big proponent of trying to get people together in groups to participate to leverage further the upper limit on available Google Hangout sessions

 20:21:43 <Unit193> ochosi: So was I.

 20:21:56 <ochosi> knome: +1 on clear agenda with assignees

 20:22:08 <knome> life got in the way for me too, but of course that's not a good reason to not be prepared

 20:22:08 <ochosi> that could help with preparation

 20:22:11 <elfy> +1 to that from me as well

 20:22:34 <knome> it was slightly scary too when people were so quiet on night 1 that lyz needed to tell us to say something

 20:22:46 <ochosi> assignees could 1) quickly sum up the topic (for those who didn't prepare ;)) and then 2) propose their $whatever and then 3) we could commonly discuss

 20:22:46 <elfy> I did try to speak up :p

 20:22:56 <elfy> ochosi: +1

 20:23:00 <skellat> Need a Vuvuzela for moments when silence reigns

 20:23:00 <knome> and tbh... 20UTC is not ideal for me at all

 20:23:07 <ochosi> skellat: +100

 20:23:13 <knome> haha

 20:23:17 <elfy> knome: too late?

 20:23:28 <ochosi> skellat: haven't heard those evil things in such a long time :]

 20:23:31 <knome> elfy, yeah, it's 11pm here and i'm worried about speaking too loud

 20:23:40 <knome> also, if wife has morning shifts the next day.. not good either.

 20:23:46 <Unit193> knome: Do note that text meetings are far better to catch up on when you missed them.

 20:23:52 <elfy> I understand - I'd be the same - little one is in bed directly above me

 20:24:04 <skellat> Partly timing comes down to compromises.

 20:24:15 <knome> Unit193, definitely, especially if we are taking notes as poorly as we did this time

 20:24:17 <elfy> to some extent skellat

 20:24:40 <ochosi> Unit193: yeah, agreed to that

 20:24:49 <knome> definitely, but otoh, we should make sure the people that are essential to any given item should be able to join the session

 20:25:00 <Unit193> (I'm thinking this because much earlier wouldn't work nearly as well.)

 20:25:02 <elfy> that's logical

 20:25:23 <skellat> knome: Jono discussed that a bit and noted how he's up at 1 AM and 6 AM in California for Ubuntu-related meetings

 20:25:30 <knome> i'm saying that if all artwork people are based in europe, we probably should have an artwork-related meeting at a suitable time for the european participants

 20:25:35 <elfy> for me - and probably only me this time is perfect

 20:25:54 <Unit193> elfy: Nope, great here.

 20:25:57 <lderan> its not too bad for me as well

 20:25:57 <knome> skellat, being up at 1am or 4am isn't a problem for me really.

 20:26:10 <elfy> knome: +1 - but it needs proper notes for those elsewhere to be able to read

 20:26:15 <knome> skellat, it's external things that make the times bad for me

 20:26:23 <skellat> knome: Understood

 20:26:27 <knome> elfy, we did do proper notes... after the meeting

 20:26:40 <elfy> yea - I'm just saying :)

 20:26:48 <knome> the point is that it might be hard to follow the meetings if taking notes at meeting time was bad

 20:27:05 <Noskcaj> for me, i'm awake 2000UTC-1100UTC

 20:27:26 <elfy> knome: I agree - maybe if we're having a hangout type - someone who's ont so involved in discussion can do note taking

 20:27:39 <elfy> s/ont/not

 20:27:45 <ochosi> yeah, or a person without a microphone ;)

 20:27:48 <lderan> I'm available 1900~2300 UTC

 20:27:49 <knome> elfy, otoh it's hard to do that if you're not too involved either

 20:28:08 <elfy> all you need do is be listening :)

 20:28:15 <knome> sure

 20:28:17 <elfy> ochosi: I was that man ...

 20:28:17 * ochosi is definitely totally not looking at elfy when he says that

 20:28:20 <knome> i'm bad at that... ;)

 20:28:37 <ochosi> ok, knome doesn't do note-taking, cause he sucks

 20:28:39 <Unit193> elfy: I was almost. :P

 20:28:40 <ochosi> ;)

 20:28:42 <knome> i mean, i'm bad at listening to something and being really focused if i can't participate

 20:28:55 <elfy> I can do that knome

 20:29:01 <knome> i'm good at remembering most things from a 1 hour meeting though if i have any agenda

 20:29:16 <knome> i barely take any notes from meetings with clients either

 20:29:22 <elfy> lol

 20:29:23 <ochosi> yeah, i think having a clear agenda and assignees should also ease note-taking though

 20:29:28 <knome> definitely

 20:29:32 <elfy> ochosi: +1

 20:29:44 <knome> the assignees could even handle the note taking for their own items

 20:29:53 <lderan> ochosi, +1

 20:29:57 <elfy> but - I'd not want to see hangouts take over from IRC meetings though

 20:30:02 <knome> that way nobody would need to just sit in the corner and shut down.

 20:30:09 <ochosi> oh, and may i add: this is the most verbose irc-meeting in quite a while, and i dare say it's not unrelated to the hangouts...

 20:30:10 <elfy> maybe once every 6 weeks or so

 20:30:32 <Noskcaj> on another topic (i'm not a chair yet), Should we try having LSC in for this release?

 20:30:36 <knome> ochosi, probably, and also because we had our last irc meeting in january or sth.

 20:30:54 <elfy> gives me time to not eat for a day or so and but a mic ... so ochosi stops bullying me :D

 20:30:57 <knome> Noskcaj, let's get to that once we've finished with this item

 20:30:59 <ochosi> Noskcaj: in the lubuntu meetings it is currently discussed to drop it

 20:31:27 <skellat> Any further discussion as to UDS status?

 20:31:29 <knome> if we have a meeting every two weeks, a hangout every 6 weeks sounds about right

 20:31:32 <ochosi> elfy: before you do that PM me your address and i'll mail you one ;)

 20:31:38 <elfy> lol

 20:31:53 <skellat> #topic Inclusion of Lubuntu Software Center

 20:32:00 <elfy> hang on skellat

 20:32:03 <knome> skellat, heh, okay :)

 20:32:06 <knome> one more thing

 20:32:13 <elfy> knome: that sounds good to me

 20:32:52 <skellat> #undo

 20:32:52 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: <MeetBot.items.Topic object at 0x324d110>

 20:32:57 <knome> #action [knome] Set up meeting schedule (IRC and Hangout meetings with vUDS in mind) and send to ML: TODO

 20:32:57 * meetingology [knome] Set up meeting schedule (IRC and Hangout meetings with vUDS in mind) and send to ML: TODO

 20:33:18 <knome> i'm fine with that item now.

 20:33:20 <ochosi> question wrt hangouts

 20:33:22 <ochosi> (sorry)

 20:33:24 <elfy> I'd say we need to get the first one pretty soon

 20:33:24 <knome> ochosi, yeah?

 20:33:33 <ochosi> what is our policy on keeping our meetings available on youtube

 20:33:49 <ochosi> some of us might have privacy concerns wrt keeping the meetings online/available "forever"

 20:33:52 <knome> i would say drop them soonish.

 20:33:55 <Unit193> ^

 20:33:59 <knome> we have the notes from those in the ML

 20:34:01 <elfy> I'd say not - we can put notes up in wiki

 20:34:02 <ochosi> yeah, that's what i was hoping

 20:34:08 <ochosi> but i'm also saying that wrt future hangouts

 20:34:14 <knome> yes

 20:34:19 <ochosi> wondering whether we should even stream them to youtube...

 20:34:26 <knome> probably not

 20:34:30 <ochosi> (or if we do, drop them immediately afterwards)

 20:34:32 <knome> unless we have participants that can't fo G+

 20:34:37 <knome> yes, definitely

 20:34:44 <elfy> I don't see a need - if we're in IRC as well - people can ask there

 20:34:55 <knome> do we want to set a deadline when we drop the vUDS videos?

 20:34:59 <skellat> #idea Consider retention policy for hangouts on YouTube compared to the retention policy for IRC logs?

 20:35:22 <Unit193> I'd say stream them, and keep them for a week.

 20:35:29 <knome> i'm proposing dropping vUDS videos week after the meeting, other videos as soon as we've done.

 20:35:32 <knome> err, we're

 20:35:38 <elfy> till the next meeting?

 20:35:41 <lderan> sounds good

 20:35:51 <skellat> Keep video at least until next meeting

 20:35:58 <knome> elfy, i'm most probably proposing and meeting every two weeks

 20:36:03 <knome> s/and/a/

 20:36:09 <elfy> so if we had hangout today, IRC in fortnight - drop the youtube on the day we next meet?

 20:36:23 <ochosi> until next meeting would mean keeping the yt-video for 6 weeks?

 20:36:23 <skellat> elfy: +1

 20:36:26 <elfy> I guessed a fortnigjt :)

 20:36:33 <knome> i would simply say...

 20:36:39 <ochosi> (with hangouts every 6 weeks)

 20:36:41 <elfy> ochosi: no the next meeting - not the next hangout

 20:36:43 <knome> one week. period.

 20:37:02 <elfy> I'll sit on the fence on that then :)

 20:37:03 <ochosi> yeah, i'm kinda on knome's side here, if we take notes anyway, what are the videos good for?

 20:37:06 <knome> but that's of course open for discussion

 20:37:18 <pleia2> whynot keep it forever?

 20:37:22 <knome> i would even say only the vUDS-timed videos need to be up after the sessions

 20:37:30 <ochosi> what about re-evaluating that after the next hangouts?

 20:37:37 <pleia2> keeping it forever is easy (default), removing it takes effort and I don't know the value

 20:37:38 <knome> pleia2, privacy concerns, eg. some ugly monkeys don't want their face showing up forever in youtube

 20:37:44 <pleia2> boo

 20:37:47 <knome> (^ i'm referring to myself)

 20:37:55 * ochosi feels like an ugly monkey now

 20:38:03 <elfy> why do you think I've no web cam ... :p

 20:38:11 <pleia2> ochosi: you're lovely :) and not a lego

 20:38:13 <lderan> take them off youtube and host them somewhere else maybe?

 20:38:19 <knome> we should've had a hangout for this so i could've seen simon's face when i said that!

 20:38:23 <ochosi> elfy: ok, in that case i'll also mail you a camera

 20:38:29 <elfy> ha ha ha

 20:38:30 <knome> i don't think the problem is youtube

 20:38:33 <ochosi> :)

 20:38:38 <knome> it's rather just keeping the videos up

 20:38:43 <ochosi> yeah

 20:38:49 <Unit193> knome: Ugly monkey?  That feels directed...

 20:39:02 <elfy> I don't really see a need if the notes are good enough to keep the video up

 20:39:05 <knome> i don't want a policy that says "if you don't want to show up in a video, don't join the hangout" either.

 20:39:07 <skellat> Unit193: I thought it was a reference to the new Google Plus layout

 20:39:07 <pleia2> I think we benefit from the internet having too much stuff on it ;) who will ever actually go dig these up ever again who isn't us?

 20:39:20 <knome> pleia2, employers?

 20:39:20 <ochosi> pleia2: imagine you say something stupid or look bored and future employers confront you at the job interview "you always looked so bored in the meetings!" imagine that!

 20:39:26 <knome> haha!

 20:39:26 <elfy> I just thought that keeping till the next meeting was a good compromise

 20:39:28 <knome> yes!

 20:39:40 <pleia2> if an employer is going to go scan through hours of UDS videos to find something to pick apart, I don't really want to work for them

 20:39:44 <pleia2> that's strange and creepy

 20:39:47 <elfy> lol

 20:39:54 <pleia2> (and unlikely)

 20:39:55 <knome> i can't see the added value of meeting videos being up after the meeting as long as we have notes

 20:40:05 <knome> notes are easier and faster to go through

 20:40:11 <ochosi> pleia2: yeah, but the vUDS videos are different from regular meetings imo

 20:40:11 <lderan> indeed they are

 20:40:13 <skellat> pleia2: It may be strange & creepy...but it is the new normal for HR.  That and all those bloody eHarmony-style personality tests that are being required these days.

 20:40:23 <pleia2> saying stupid things on mailing lists is much more likely and searchable

 20:40:26 <elfy> how about we see how good the notes are - if they are as good as IRC logs - that's enough

 20:40:28 <lderan> those are a pain skellat

 20:40:28 <pleia2> ochosi: ours aren't vUDS videos

 20:40:33 <knome> and hangouts are going to be like "... *silence* .... (lyz:) say something" anyway

 20:40:37 <pleia2> ochosi: ours are on my private youtube, not linked to other vUDS things

 20:40:50 <pleia2> since ours aren't official sessions

 20:40:57 <knome> pleia2, still.

 20:41:01 <ochosi> pleia2: hmright.

 20:41:01 <pleia2> well, official for us, not official for UDS

 20:41:07 <Unit193> Lyz: say something!  Unit193: Something.

 20:41:11 <pleia2> :)

 20:41:12 <knome> yeah, like that

 20:41:16 <elfy> ha ha ha

 20:41:19 <ochosi> we can always have a vote on that...

 20:41:19 <knome> do you think that looks good on any of us?

 20:41:24 <knome> i veto.

 20:41:28 <pleia2> heh

 20:41:31 <elfy> I was fine knome :p

 20:41:40 <ochosi> knome: you _veto_ against voting? :p

 20:41:43 <skellat> Compared to how that job interview went on Night 1, the hangout sounds like it would have been a better use of time

 20:41:58 <lderan> oh dear

 20:42:06 <knome> skellat, that can be said of the part before ochosi joined, unfortunately

 20:42:19 <knome> it was about the developer involvement

 20:42:23 <knome> and no developers were around

 20:42:25 <elfy> ochosi: I think you're right - we should just vote and be done with it :)

 20:42:36 <knome> nobody had anything to say, it had been beaten up in the blueprints already

 20:42:44 <ochosi> elfy: yeah, this is starting to take up too much time...

 20:42:46 <pleia2> I want to link the youtube videos to my blog post about UDS :( must keep forever!

 20:43:13 <elfy> ochosi: it's because we're trying to catch up on what didn't get said over the last 2 days :)

 20:43:18 * Noskcaj doesn't see why you need them taken down.

 20:43:28 <knome> Noskcaj, you didn't have a camera.

 20:43:30 <ochosi> pleia2: but wouldn't an edited summary or something be nicer? i mean do you really want ppl to think that our meetings are lame and quiet (especially those that hit "close" after two minutes)?

 20:43:42 <pleia2> ochosi: ours really aren't that bad

 20:43:54 <Noskcaj> knome, i wasn't allowed a camera, my brother owns the only one in the house and said no

 20:43:58 <pleia2> plenty of uds sessions are like ours

 20:43:59 <skellat> ochosi: Better than most school board & city council meetings around here

 20:44:10 <knome> #vote YouTube videos of Hangouts: Keep forever (+1) or not (-1)   (only those who had a camera can vote)

 20:44:10 <meetingology> Please vote on: YouTube videos of Hangouts: Keep forever (+1) or not (-1)   (only those who had a camera can vote)

 20:44:10 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:44:12 <ochosi> pleia2: hm, have never watched any uds sessions

 20:44:13 <knome> -1

 20:44:13 <meetingology> -1 received from knome

 20:44:18 <Unit193> -1

 20:44:18 <meetingology> -1 received from Unit193

 20:44:20 <skellat> +1

 20:44:20 <meetingology> +1 received from skellat

 20:44:21 <ochosi> -1

 20:44:21 <meetingology> -1 received from ochosi

 20:44:22 <lderan> -1

 20:44:22 <meetingology> -1 received from lderan

 20:44:26 <pleia2> keeping them up increases project transparency, I don't like the idea of having secret meetings of hangouts and fully public meetings of irc

 20:44:30 <pleia2> +1

 20:44:30 <meetingology> +1 received from pleia2

 20:45:02 <knome> pleia2, we will still have the meeting notes. and we can have the videos on your HDD to be sent by email if somebody wants to "check" things out.

 20:45:03 <pleia2> (I probably won't feel comfortable participating in hangouts if they're private)

 20:45:19 <Noskcaj> -1

 20:45:19 <meetingology> -1 received from Noskcaj

 20:45:34 <Noskcaj> oops, +1

 20:45:39 <Noskcaj> +1

 20:45:39 <meetingology> +1 received from Noskcaj

 20:45:40 <Unit193> pleia2: I understand that, but I'm the reverse.  (In that case, you being present is more important.)

 20:45:43 <knome> is that everybody?

 20:45:52 <ochosi> pleia2: i wouldn't mind voting on this again after we have a bit more "experience" with hangouts, would that be ok for you?

 20:45:53 <elfy> I didn't have a camera :)

 20:45:59 <elfy> but as I will

 20:46:01 <pleia2> Unit193: no one is more important (except knome prolly)

 20:46:01 <elfy> -1

 20:46:01 <meetingology> -1 received from elfy

 20:46:05 <knome> #endvote

 20:46:05 <meetingology> Voting ended on: YouTube videos of Hangouts: Keep forever (+1) or not (-1)   (only those who had a camera can vote)

 20:46:05 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:5 Abstentions:0

 20:46:05 <meetingology> Motion denied

 20:46:11 <knome> so, next vote

 20:46:13 <skellat> #vote Shall the Nights of Xubuntu videos be allowed to archived by a member of the Community Council outside of remaining on YouTube?

 20:46:13 <meetingology> Please vote on: Shall the Nights of Xubuntu videos be allowed to archived by a member of the Community Council outside of remaining on YouTube?

 20:46:13 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:46:20 <knome> oh, okay

 20:46:25 <knome> +1

 20:46:25 <meetingology> +1 received from knome

 20:46:28 <elfy> +1

 20:46:28 <meetingology> +1 received from elfy

 20:46:28 <pleia2> ochosi: that's fine, but I really don't feel comfortable participating unless they are kept public

 20:46:29 <skellat> +1

 20:46:29 <meetingology> +1 received from skellat

 20:46:44 <ochosi> wait, what would that be good for?

 20:46:46 <knome> skellat, just for clarification, does that include pleia2 ?

 20:46:46 <lderan> +1

 20:46:46 <meetingology> +1 received from lderan

 20:46:57 <knome> ochosi, if somebody wants to "check something out"

 20:46:59 <skellat> knome: Yep.

 20:47:05 <knome> ok

 20:47:10 <knome> "then -1"

 20:47:13 <knome> (just kidding)

 20:47:18 <Unit193> +0

 20:47:18 <meetingology> +0 received from Unit193

 20:47:27 <ochosi> +0

 20:47:27 <meetingology> +0 received from ochosi

 20:47:39 <skellat> I would much rather have them be still accessible even if not accessible via YouTube

 20:47:40 <elfy> if someone complains we can always revisit it

 20:47:57 <knome> #endvote

 20:47:57 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Shall the Nights of Xubuntu videos be allowed to archived by a member of the Community Council outside of remaining on YouTube?

 20:47:57 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:2

 20:47:57 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:48:00 <knome> i have anohter.

 20:48:05 <knome> *another

 20:48:45 <knome> #vote Keep videos of Hangouts up for a limited time (+1) or delete directly after the session has ended (-1)? Everbody can vote.

 20:48:45 <meetingology> Please vote on: Keep videos of Hangouts up for a limited time (+1) or delete directly after the session has ended (-1)? Everbody can vote.

 20:48:45 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 20:48:45 <ochosi> pleia2: at least atm i'm not sure i'd feel comfortable with having all those meeting videos in a publicly accessible place, that'd at least lead to me having my webcam switched off (i don't have that lego-avatar for nothing, after all)

 20:49:01 <ochosi> -1

 20:49:01 <meetingology> -1 received from ochosi

 20:49:07 <elfy> +1

 20:49:07 <meetingology> +1 received from elfy

 20:49:12 <lderan> +1

 20:49:12 <meetingology> +1 received from lderan

 20:49:17 <knome> that was a stupid vote.

 20:49:20 <skellat> +1 -- Gotta have time in case somebody is late to the meeting to catch up

 20:49:20 <meetingology> +1 -- Gotta have time in case somebody is late to the meeting to catch up received from skellat

 20:49:34 <knome> -1 generally; +1 for vUDS-related

 20:49:34 <meetingology> -1 generally; +1 for vUDS-related received from knome

 20:49:43 <Unit193> +1

 20:49:43 <meetingology> +1 received from Unit193

 20:50:08 <elfy> now I'm justconfused ...

 20:50:12 <knome> elfy, lol!

 20:50:20 <elfy> -1

 20:50:20 <meetingology> -1 received from elfy

 20:50:27 <ochosi> would be good to announce votes before just starting them ;)

 20:50:31 <elfy> that's me at 0 then

 20:50:35 <ochosi> announce and explain

 20:50:46 <knome> elfy, then say +0

 20:50:47 <elfy> that should really be 2 seperate thinsg

 20:50:49 <elfy> +0

 20:50:49 <meetingology> +0 received from elfy

 20:51:00 <knome> elfy, i know. i just realized.

 20:51:08 <Unit193> In case someone missed the meeting, but wants to review.

 20:51:10 <elfy> start again then :)

 20:51:12 <knome> Unit193, notes.

 20:51:23 <Unit193> Yes, but not always good enough.

 20:51:35 <knome> then make the notes better

 20:51:39 <knome> #endvote

 20:51:39 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Keep videos of Hangouts up for a limited time (+1) or delete directly after the session has ended (-1)? Everbody can vote.

 20:51:39 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:2 Abstentions:1

 20:51:39 <meetingology> Motion carried

 20:52:13 <knome> i mean, meh

 20:52:21 <knome> let's rewind

 20:52:35 <knome> do we want to have official hangouts at all if it's this hard?

 20:52:45 <knome> want to vote on that, or discuss?

 20:53:23 <Unit193> I don't think it exactly needed a vote, everyone seemed to be good to do them.

 20:53:26 <ochosi> hmpf, i was actually generally in favor of hangouts, but i guess i opened a can of worms with mentioning privacy concerns...

 20:53:32 <ochosi> brb

 20:53:51 <knome> Unit193, well as ochosi said, didn't need back then but now...

 20:53:52 <elfy> personally I see the value in a face to face thing - but I can understand if people have privacy concerns

 20:54:14 <skellat> #action skellat, as a professionally-trained librarian, to assist pleia2 with archiving Nights of Xubuntu in such manner as pleia2 deems fit after the in-meeting vote

 20:54:14 * meetingology skellat, as a professionally-trained librarian, to assist pleia2 with archiving Nights of Xubuntu in such manner as pleia2 deems fit after the in-meeting vote

 20:54:32 <knome> so...

 20:54:40 <pleia2> I don't really want to be a part of this archiving process

 20:54:47 <skellat> #undo

 20:54:47 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: <MeetBot.items.Action object at 0x35e9110>

 20:54:54 <pleia2> so you'll have to use someone else's youtube account

 20:54:54 <elfy> perhaps if the 2 weekly ones were not kept and the vUDS ones were - people can just do audio if they don't like the idea of being 'seen'

 20:55:16 <knome> me neither, but i wanted to offer a compromise for deleting forever

 20:55:18 <pleia2> (it's bad enough that we're using a proprietary tool for all of this, I don't want to be a part of a process that further closes access to these resources)

 20:55:41 <knome> i think i would be fine with audio-only recording in public foreverish

 20:56:01 <lderan> as would i

 20:56:25 <skellat> Mostly for archiving it would involve grabbing said videos, storing them away from YouTube, and making them available as others require.

 20:56:37 * Noskcaj is back from mustering sheep

 20:56:54 <elfy> I see no need to be getting into archiving - the notes should be enough

 20:56:57 <knome> skellat, i think that's just silly for what xubuntu is

 20:57:03 <skellat> I don't like the idea either but it preserve access to it, however minimal, even if I have to burn a DVD and mail it to somebody

 20:57:26 <elfy> overkill imo

 20:57:46 <knome> pleia2, would you vote against hangouts at all then, or would you be fine with some kind of socializing hangouts that aren't public?

 20:58:04 <pleia2> knome: I'm not going to participate in them unless they're public

 20:58:16 <knome> to help with communication (which was the point of hangouts anyway), but not to specifically discuss xubuntu-related issues

 20:58:34 <pleia2> I'm not trying to be difficult here, it just feels very wrong as an open source project, I don't like it and don't feel it's fair

 20:58:42 <knome> i understand

 20:58:53 <elfy> then we should do as we did before

 20:59:02 <elfy> meet here and use meetingology

 20:59:30 <knome> i like the point that ochosi had about making communication more natural

 20:59:32 <Unit193> Sadly, seems so.

 20:59:38 <knome> (not just during the hangouts, but also after)

 21:00:03 <elfy> nothing to stop people doing so outside of meeting

 21:00:04 <knome> but i would be uncomfortable with "private" social hangouts as well if some of the people were uncomfortable joining them

 21:00:06 <pleia2> there are subtleties and assumptions when having a natural video discussion that don't transfer well into notes, and you won't get full background as to why things are decided by raw notes that don't have details

 21:00:41 <elfy> pleia2: that might well be the case - but then that invalidates any meeting that happened before :)

 21:00:53 <knome> pleia2, i understand if you still don't want to, but would the hangouts be fine if nothing was "decided" on them?

 21:01:04 <knome> pleia2, if it was clearly social

 21:01:09 <elfy> I don't see why audio only is an issue

 21:01:25 <Unit193> A #xubuntu-offtopic hangout rather than #xubuntu-devel.

 21:01:27 <pleia2> knome: so we already have private conversations sometimes about things

 21:01:32 <pleia2> even project things

 21:01:53 <pleia2> I think it's fine for people to do a hangout privately to collect thoughts and discuss things

 21:02:04 <knome> elfy, i suppose one can argue that part of the communication is lost in the process

 21:02:13 <pleia2> just when it comes to presenting things to the community for a decision, community discussion, etc - we need all rationale and explaining out there in full, forever

 21:02:23 <elfy> knome: less so than IRC

 21:02:36 <knome> pleia2, i see, but that doesn't build up the community as a whole

 21:02:52 <knome> elfy, sure, but in the case of IRC meetings everybody "loses" the subleties.

 21:02:53 <pleia2> what doesn't?

 21:03:08 <knome> pleia2, having private one-on-one hangouts

 21:03:28 <pleia2> no, it would be disappointing to me to see things move from here to private hangouts

 21:03:38 <pleia2> I don't want to *encourage* them ;)

 21:03:44 <knome> pleia2, that too.

 21:03:49 <skellat> I do find it odd that we want to quickly nuke video yet the proceedings of this IRC channel are preserved forever over at irclogs.ubuntu.com

 21:03:51 <pleia2> but if people want to knock through some debugging or testing of stuff together on a hangout, whatever

 21:03:59 <pleia2> skellat: right, that's my point

 21:04:15 <pleia2> right now we have a great system of transparency and keep-logs-forever

 21:04:21 <pleia2> moving some meetings to hangouts that get deleted is :(

 21:04:24 <Unit193> skellat: I don't like that either, and that's part of the reason I avoid this channel.  I randomly avoid the support channels as well.

 21:04:36 <elfy> I don't see what's so hard to understand about people not wanting their face out there forever

 21:04:36 <knome> then we should simply keep the meetings in IRC

 21:05:34 <knome> i'm personally fine if we decided to keep the UDS sessions up forever, but i can empathize with others on their privacy issuses

 21:05:47 <elfy> is my view as well

 21:06:15 <pleia2> elfy: I understand, but you have to balance privacy issues with being a part of a global project that values transparency

 21:06:44 <knome> pleia2, we went wrong with that by not discussing these kinds of things before the first hangouts

 21:06:51 <pleia2> knome: indeed

 21:07:10 <pleia2> I've been doing Ubuntu on-air stuff for over a year, didn't even think that anyone would have a problem with it :(

 21:07:29 <pleia2> (or at least they'd do what elfy did and not do voice+video if they were uncomfortable with it)

 21:07:39 <elfy> indeed - my point is that if it's good enough to be audio only for Ubuntu then it should be good enough for us

 21:08:03 <knome> pleia2, what's your stance on audio-only preserving?

 21:08:13 <elfy> "Where people are uncomfortable joining a hangout, and want to do that in audio only then that is fine"

 21:08:33 <skellat> Nothing says we have to stick with Google Hangouts.  We can always go to Mumble and deposit the audio with Archive.org.

 21:08:42 <knome> most definitely

 21:08:55 <knome> and we can decide not to do non-IRC meetings as well if that's the consensus

 21:09:04 <elfy> I hasten to add that I really don't have mic or camera and if I had then you'd have heard me and seen me

 21:09:10 <Noskcaj> no-one did anything that requires video, but that may change in the future. we might have to decide after each meeting

 21:09:16 <skellat> yofel has a server we could use, we could use Hacker Public Radio's server and have our sessions really made available to a wide audience, and we could set up ourselves too.

 21:09:21 <pleia2> audio only is fine as long as we don't mind not knowing who is talking :)

 21:09:23 <knome> Noskcaj, no, *before* each meeting.

 21:09:36 <pleia2> elfy: ah, see I assumed it was a privacy thing :)

 21:09:55 <Unit193> knome: It actually is harder to understand your spoken word without seeing you.

 21:09:56 <elfy> pleia2: it is - but not so much for me

 21:10:04 <pleia2> I assumed the same with Unit193 not showing his name/video too, it was surprising to see his face the 2nd day!

 21:10:10 <knome> pleia2, it probably is... but otoh, there wasn't privacy concerns because we didn't communicate it clearly enough how we would proceed with the streaming.

 21:10:23 <Unit193> pleia2: Couldn't the first, kept turning it off the second.

 21:10:27 <knome> pleia2, he was already in in the testing session on night 0 !

 21:10:29 <pleia2> knome: yeah, I just assumed everyone was familiar with ubuntu on air stuff because it's been around for a while now

 21:11:07 <knome> pleia2, tbh i kind of am, but i didn't think of the privacy concerns before today.

 21:11:17 <knome> pleia2, i mean, in the case of the xubuntu sessions.

 21:11:41 <pleia2> and I'm the wrong one to ask about privacy, anyone in the world can easily get my home address

 21:11:48 <pleia2> and know where I am at any given moment

 21:12:02 <pleia2> princessleia.com/where \o/

 21:12:05 <Noskcaj> someone ping me when we change topic, this is getting repetitive.

 21:12:14 <knome> mine as well, and if you happen to know my real name (not really hard to find out either), you can't be mistaken of the person. i'm the only one of me around.

 21:12:28 <knome> (of my name)

 21:12:33 <elfy> :)

 21:12:35 * knome looks where pleia2 is

 21:12:44 <knome> "oh, USA"

 21:12:45 <skellat> I actually have a cousin with a different middle name in Florida who is a knucklehead

 21:12:46 <knome> :]

 21:13:25 <knome> meh.

 21:13:35 <skellat> But yeah, my home address is easily found through voter records in Ohio which are just a downloadable CSV file

 21:13:42 <knome> should we talk about the 3NoX sessions specifically?

 21:13:55 <ochosi> (nox=night in latin)

 21:14:06 <knome> ochosi, i know! :)

 21:14:10 <knome> what are we going to do what we have now

 21:14:21 <knome> then consider how we want to proceed

 21:14:32 <knome> (we can even schedule one complete meeting for that)

 21:14:50 <knome> s/proceed/proceed with session recordings in the future/

 21:14:58 <skellat> Status Quo pending further discussion

 21:15:29 <knome> let's make this easy.

 21:15:37 <knome> ochosi, how long are you comfortable the session being up?

 21:15:45 <knome> Unit193, how long are you comfortable the session being up?

 21:16:08 <ochosi> i was assuming it would go away after the meetings over, and i still don't see the use of keeping it up if we have notes

 21:16:31 <Unit193> knome: As in, how long would I like to keep them up?  I would like them off in two weeks, but I could do with the saucy cycle I suppose.

 21:16:37 <knome> ochosi, that isn't really an answer for my question

 21:16:38 <ochosi> but whatever, if you wanna keep it up for a certain while, i don't feel like being the grinch

 21:16:56 <knome> i think this is a good start

 21:17:08 <knome> would it be a viable option to keep sessions up for the whole cycle?

 21:17:08 <ochosi> more felt like the beginning of the end for hangouts

 21:17:25 <knome> pleia2? is that open enough?

 21:17:42 <knome> i mean, people could refer to the sessions as long as we were developing the release we're talking about..

 21:17:43 <pleia2> knome: this time ;)

 21:17:52 <knome> ...items need to be taken up again anyway after a release

 21:17:57 <knome> pleia2, and in the future?

 21:18:04 <pleia2> if people are ok with it, maybe next UDS we tell them to turn off their camera if they're not comfy

 21:18:23 <lderan> that sounds fair

 21:18:30 <knome> in that case i don't think i'm comfortable in having hangouts, tbh

 21:18:46 <knome> being in G+ is giving a hardish time for me anyway.

 21:18:56 <skellat> *snort* The feed for Randall Ross failed in one session this morning so all you saw was a generic G+ avatar with him talking

 21:18:57 <pleia2> yeah, real name policy there and all

 21:18:58 <elfy> shall we shelve this for the moment?

 21:19:06 <pleia2> I don't love G+ for that

 21:19:15 <pleia2> elfy: wise

 21:19:15 <elfy> let people think some more and revisit it

 21:19:23 <skellat> If I didn't have to maintain my LoCo's G+ Page, I wouldn't even be using it

 21:19:39 <knome> well i suppose we have a plan for the 3NoX: keep the sessions up for the saucy cycle, then make them private

 21:20:02 <knome> i will be downloading them to my harddrive for archiving as well, so we can check things if we need to.

 21:20:15 <pleia2> ok

 21:20:30 <Unit193> So, we're technically going against the vote.

 21:20:40 <elfy> appears so

 21:20:45 <knome> Unit193, it wasn't technically a wise vote...

 21:20:55 <knome> i mean, how it was set up

 21:21:07 <skellat> Hold a quickie vote to ratify what we've done now and overrule the previous?

 21:21:07 <knome> i don't think we have a choice here

 21:21:11 <knome> sure.

 21:21:34 <skellat> Besides, I'm having a hard enough time searching for the second night's video in YouTube as it is

 21:21:50 <knome> #vote Should we keep the 3NoX session recordings up for the Saucy cycle (+1) or delete them instantly (-1) ?

 21:21:50 <meetingology> Please vote on: Should we keep the 3NoX session recordings up for the Saucy cycle (+1) or delete them instantly (-1) ?

 21:21:50 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 21:21:59 <knome> skellat, just look at the mailing list :)

 21:22:00 <knome> +1

 21:22:00 <meetingology> +1 received from knome

 21:22:00 <Unit193> +0

 21:22:00 <meetingology> +0 received from Unit193

 21:22:05 <pleia2> +1

 21:22:05 <meetingology> +1 received from pleia2

 21:22:06 <lderan> +0

 21:22:06 <meetingology> +0 received from lderan

 21:22:07 <elfy> +0

 21:22:07 <meetingology> +0 received from elfy

 21:22:08 <skellat> +1

 21:22:08 <meetingology> +1 received from skellat

 21:22:19 <skellat> knome: It just shows how low discoverability is

 21:22:22 <knome> ochosi?

 21:22:44 <ochosi> -1

 21:22:44 <meetingology> -1 received from ochosi

 21:22:47 <knome> skellat, at the moment, but google will fix that

 21:23:15 <knome> if we end with a tie between +1 and 0, do you think the vote is still valid?

 21:23:47 <knome> people who voted +0, please specify with a few words.

 21:24:12 <knome> (if you wanted C. something else, or if you are just abstaining)

 21:24:43 <elfy> I was abstaining as, whether it's there forver or just 30 hours - I'm not there anyway

 21:25:00 <knome> elfy, thanks.

 21:25:02 <elfy> so I need to really abstain

 21:25:02 <knome> Unit193, lderan?

 21:25:09 <knome> fair enough

 21:25:52 <Unit193> knome: I won't vote against it, but I can't exactly vote for it.

 21:26:19 <skellat> Unit193: Blank/spoiled ballot then?

 21:26:21 <lderan> abstained, I have no issues with my face being in the public domain. As long as there is an archive of the video somewhere im good

 21:26:28 <knome> (i just want to point out that we are in the 1,5 hour mark; and one couldn't say it's because we're not communicating all the time)

 21:26:36 <knome> #endvote

 21:26:36 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Should we keep the 3NoX session recordings up for the Saucy cycle (+1) or delete them instantly (-1) ?

 21:26:36 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:1 Abstentions:3

 21:26:36 <meetingology> Motion carried

 21:27:08 <ochosi> ok folks, getting late here

 21:27:10 * pleia2 causetrouble

 21:27:13 <knome> #agreed We will keep the 3NoX videos up for the Saucy cycle, then make them inaccessible in YouTube. This overrules the previous vote.

 21:27:22 * knome hugs pleia2

 21:27:26 * pleia2 hugs

 21:27:28 * skellat hugs pleia2

 21:27:39 <pleia2> hugs all around!

 21:27:40 <ochosi> hf hugging everyone and good night ;)

 21:27:40 <knome> #topic LSC

 21:27:43 <pleia2> woo uds

 21:27:44 <pleia2> :)

 21:27:45 <knome> nighty ochosi

 21:27:48 <elfy> night ochosi

 21:27:49 <knome> Noskcaj, ping

 21:27:50 <pleia2> night ochosi

 21:27:54 <lderan> night ochosi

 21:27:55 <Unit193> ochosi: Night, but I didn't hug.

 21:28:13 <knome> Unit193, puss och kram

 21:28:15 <ochosi> (and wrt LSC, don't forgtet to check whether lubuntu doesn't want to drop it)

 21:29:09 <Noskcaj> i think lubuntu are supporting it now, but need more devs. should i fetch phillw?

 21:29:18 <Unit193> https://code.launchpad.net/~lubuntu-software-center-team/light-software-center/trunk

 21:29:20 <knome> feel free to

 21:30:35 <elfy> brb

 21:31:59 <Unit193> I'd rather have Synaptic rather than LSC.  Now, would LSC be in addition to, or replacing USC?  One of the main features is paid applications, or so I hear.

 21:32:25 <knome> Unit193, i would imagine replacing. but we need to discuss the state of LSC first

 21:32:43 <pleia2> generally I prefer USC because we know that will be supported and maintained long-term

 21:33:13 <knome> yes, i think the biggest negative side in getting LSC would be needing to (co)maintain it

 21:33:13 <pleia2> (lubuntu is a small team and LSC does need work)

 21:33:18 <knome> that's not something we want

 21:33:23 <pleia2> yeah

 21:33:37 <Noskcaj> i use neither, but the fact LSC is far more lightweight better follows the project goals

 21:33:48 <elfy> back

 21:34:01 <knome> but i'm interested in hearing if LSC is becoming something more general maintained by some specific group (and not requiring maintenance from xubuntu's side)

 21:34:07 <skellat> I can't say I really use either USC or LSC.  I still mostly with aptitude and apt-offline.

 21:34:10 <knome> Noskcaj, goals yes, but not the means

 21:34:24 <pleia2> Noskcaj: I'd say project maturity is more important, and LSC needs work

 21:34:28 <knome> Noskcaj, or are you willing to spend your time on being the maintainer from xubuntu?

 21:35:08 <pleia2> it's a great effort and it's nice to see a team working on a lightweight alternative that's more friendly than synaptic, I just don't think it's where we need it to be

 21:35:27 <elfy> I'd not be +1 to replacing a thing that I know works fine like synaptic with lsc

 21:35:37 <knome> isn't there some recent development for synaptic as well? (Unit193?)

 21:36:06 <Unit193> knome: There has been some, yes.  For one thing, it's been ported to GTK3.

 21:36:09 <Noskcaj> knome, no, mostly because i'm not capable of it.

 21:36:25 <knome> we will probably need to discuss this in a more "serious" meeting, but what do you think generall of USC/synaptic and which we should have

 21:36:52 <pleia2> synaptic still launches with an "All" menu that starts with Amateur Radio, Communication, Communication (multiverse)... and it's not so pretty or intuitive :)

 21:37:15 <knome> Noskcaj, i wouldn't expect many would, even if they were capable, and while i'm not deciding on other peoples' time devoting, i wouldn't say it's the wises place to put developer effort in

 21:37:19 <pleia2> going through this list for a normal user is huge scary

 21:37:21 <Unit193> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/raring/+source/synaptic/+changelog little info here at least.

 21:37:22 <elfy> pleia2: but it's not so slow as to make me think it's hung

 21:37:40 <pleia2> GObject Introspection data <--- that even scares me

 21:37:46 <knome> lol

 21:38:11 <pleia2> elfy: yeah, but if I gave this to my uncle he'd have no idea this is how you're supposed to install software

 21:38:16 <pleia2> it's some hacker tool or something

 21:38:34 <elfy> :)

 21:38:46 <knome> should we install synaptic *in addition* to USC?

 21:39:01 <Noskcaj> elfy, i doubt we'd replace synaptic with it.

 21:39:17 <elfy> knome: I don't think we need do that - if it's there those who prefer it can soon apt-get it

 21:39:50 <knome> Noskcaj, we aren't shipping synaptic

 21:39:54 <elfy> I thought the issue was replacing usc with lsc

 21:40:21 <knome> yes

 21:40:25 <knome> or the question

 21:40:31 <elfy> yea

 21:40:35 <knome> and my other question was if we wanted to add synaptic

 21:40:42 <Noskcaj> everyone adanced nough to use synaptic knows how to install it from the command line. and other users would not use it at all

 21:40:48 <elfy> my answer to that last one is ^^

 21:40:58 <knome> but i suppose people are too tired... so thanks!

 21:40:59 <knome> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
