{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Stephen Michael Kellat
|-
| Library``Thing
| <nowiki>[[https://www.librarything.com/profile/alpacaherder/stats/ddc|Collection Snapshots]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://erielookingproductions.info|Erie Looking Productions]]</nowiki>
|-
| Blog
| <nowiki>[[https://kellat.me|Monitoring Main Mission]]</nowiki>
|-
| Wikipedia
| <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Smk|English]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Smk|Simple English]]</nowiki>
|-
| Git``Hub
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/skellat/
| skellat]]</nowiki>
|-
| AskUbuntu
| <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/users/139532/stephen-michael-kellat|Stephen Michael Kellat]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~skellat|Stephen Michael Kellat]]</nowiki>
|-
| Telegram
| <nowiki>[[https://t.me/smkellat|smkellat]]</nowiki>
|-
| Skype
| stephen.michael.kellat
|-
| Email
| Contact me via my Launchpad contact page
|-
| Current Platform Versions
| Varying Widely
|}
 
----

==== About Me ====

I am called many things.  Lately people call me "professor" as I seem to wind up in classrooms teaching about computer and information systems.  You’ll need to make your own decision as to what/who I am. 

----

==== The Undiscovered Country: The Now ====

 {*} proprietor of Erie Looking Productions 

 {*} duly-licensed amateur radio operator holding call sign <nowiki>[[http://wireless2.fcc.gov/UlsApp/UlsSearch/license.jsp?licKey=480524|KC8BFI]]</nowiki>

 {*} member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|Ubuntu Members]]</nowiki> since 2012-03-15

 {*} member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~not-canonical|Not Canonical]]</nowiki> group where I note I am not employed by Canonical

 {*} member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-doc|Xubuntu Documentation]]</nowiki> team who is occasionally active and sometimes remembers to participate in meetings but does not have as many pull requests submitted compared to the past

 {*} member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad|Ubuntu BugSquad]]</nowiki> team in spirit if not in output

 {*} currently hosting sites via Netlify and Github Pages

----

==== That Foreign Country: The Past ====

 {*} Graduated from the <nowiki>[[http://lakelandcc.edu/web/about/emergency-management-planning-administration-departments|Emergency Management and Planning Administration program]]</nowiki> at Lakeland Community College in December 2017

 {*} Leader for <nowiki>[[OhioTeam|Ubuntu Ohio]]</nowiki> as from 2013-04-07 until 2014-12-30

 {*} Councilor for <nowiki>[[LoCoCouncil|the LoCo Council]]</nowiki> from 2013-10-07 until 2015-05-11

 {*} active and contributing member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-doc|Xubuntu Documentation]]</nowiki> team

 {*} former member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team|Xubuntu Team]]</nowiki> leadership group

 {*} former member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-bugs|Xubuntu Bugs]]</nowiki> overwatch

 {*} listowner for <nowiki>[[http://groups.yahoo.com/group/PNLA-L/|PNLA-L]]</nowiki> for 4 years and 6 months without anybody noticing that I was the listowner

 {*} researching Outernet (now Othernet) for external evaluation

 {*} employed by part of the United States Government most recently 2013-12-13 to 2019-10-02

 {*} Previously utilized Digital Ocean for cloud hosting

 {*} preacher posting filmed church services to You``Tube

----

==== Wishful Thinking: Matters I Wish To Undertake ====

Planning?  What's that?  I honestly have no clue where things are going lately.  Did I have any inkling of a notion that I would be ending 2022 as a community college adjunct professor teaching an introductory computer and information systems class?  No, not at all.  Yet here we are!

==== Additional Materials ====

----
CategoryHomepage
