{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[http://freecode.com/projects/skippy|Skippy]]</nowiki> (and <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/skippy-xd/|Skippy-XD]]</nowiki>) is a full-screen task-switcher for X11. It will arrange and scale snapshots of all windows on the current desktop and it'll let you pick a window using a mouse or a keyboard. Skippy-XD provides 'live' (and updating) snapshots of the windows.

== Installation ==
=== Lucid, Oneiric, Precise and later ===
A slightly modified version of Skippy-XD (forked from the 0.5.0 release) is hosted at <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/skippy-xd/|Skippy-XD on Google Code]]</nowiki>. Among other things it fixes compilation for i386/amd64 architectures. This development snapshot is available for installation via the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~landronimirc/+archive/skippy-xd|Skippy-XD PPA]]</nowiki>.
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:landronimirc/skippy-xd
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install skippy-xd
</pre>

=== Breezy or Dapper ===
If you have Breezy or Dapper, the original Skippy 0.5.0 package will be in the universe repository:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install skippy
</pre>

If not, you'll have to download the debian package:
<pre>
wget http://www.debian.org.hk/~glee/deb/skippy/skippy_0.5.0-1_i386.deb
</pre>
and install it:
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i skippy_0.5.0-1_i386.deb
</pre>

=== Compilation from Source ===
To compile Skippy-XD from source you need to install the following development packages: 
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libimlib2-dev, libfontconfig1-dev, libfreetype6-dev, libx11-dev, libxext-dev, libxft-dev, libxrender-dev, zlib1g-dev, libxinerama-dev, libxcomposite-dev, libxdamage-dev, libxfixes-dev, libxmu-dev
</pre>

Some of the above may be unnecessary, though, but it doesn't hurt to have them available. Next download the source:
<pre>
wget http://thegraveyard.org/files/skippy-0.5.0.tar.bz2
wget http://thegraveyard.org/files/skippy-xd-0.5.0.tar.bz2
</pre>

You may also grab the Skippy-XD development code from <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/skippy-xd/|Skippy-XD on Google Code]]</nowiki>, which should behave better than the original 0.5.0 release. Now unpack the archive and change directory. Then: 
<pre>
make
make install
</pre>

For an older guide on how to compile Skippy from source see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=151996&postcount=1|this thread]]</nowiki>.

== Configuration and Usage ==
=== Skippy ===
Download the original <nowiki>[[attachment:skippyrc-default]]</nowiki> config file or a customized version <nowiki>[[attachment:skippyrc-customized]]</nowiki>, and copy it to <code>~/.skippyrc</code> and edit it to your liking. For example, you can change line 24 to read:
<pre>
keysym=Scroll_Lock
</pre>
instead of F11. Otherwise use your Desktop Environment's facilities to set up a keyboard shortcut. 

You can start the task-switcher with the following command:
<pre>
skippy
</pre>

=== Skippy-XD ===
Download the original <nowiki>[[attachment:skippy-xd.rc-default]]</nowiki> config file and copy it to <code>~/.config/skippy-xd/skippy-xd.rc</code> and edit it to your liking. 

For more advanced setup and usage instructions see the Skippy-XD <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/skippy-xd/wiki/SetupGuide|Setup Guide on Google Code]]</nowiki>.

== Troubleshooting ==
=== WARNING: Couldn't load config file ===
If you get such warning messages:
<pre>
WARNING: Couldn't load config file '/home/stubby/.skippyrc'
X Error of failed request:  BadAccess (attempt to access private resource denied)
</pre>
You are probably missing the .skippyrc file. See the Configuration section. 

=== Frequent crashes ===
Unfortunately Skippy-XD has a tendency to crash rather often. If you installed it from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~landronimirc/+archive/skippy-xd|Skippy-XD PPA]]</nowiki>, then you're advised to use <code>skippy-xd-activate</code> to activate the task-switcher (if the daemon is already running); the simple bash script will introduce a small delay before calling Skippy-XD, and this tends to increase reliability. If the plugin has already crashed, then use a different keyboard shortcut for <code>skippy-xd-restart</code>, another simple script that will clean up and restart Skippy-XD daemon. 

== External Links ==
* <nowiki>[[http://thegraveyard.org/skippy.php|Original Skippy website]]</nowiki> (Currently down, as of Feb 2013)
* <nowiki>[[http://freecode.com/projects/skippy|Skippy on Freecode]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/skippy-xd/|Skippy-XD on Google Code]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~landronimirc/+archive/skippy-xd|Skippy-XD PPA]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=30510&highlight=skippy|HOWTO: Compile skippy (Exposé like features for Hoary)]]</nowiki>
