{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Skunkworks Code Of Conduct ==

Skunkworks projects are built on a foundation of trust. These are projects that have not yet been announced publicly and therefore your participation in this project, although hugely welcomed, needs to respect the privacy of the project in it’s current form.

Here are some general guidelines that apply while the project is considered confidential:

* You should ask your project leader if you can talk about your involvement in the project, even if you don’t plan on talking about what the project= itself is.
* You should presume that all communication and content surrounding the project is confidential. Most of the communication and development will likely take place in private channels and branches.
* You should not share code, bug reports, screenshots, or other content about the project.
* You should not blog, tweet or otherwise communicate about your active contributions.
* Your participation in the project is at the discretion of the project leader.
* The licensing and copyright assignment requirements may differ from project to project and you should confirm your acceptance of these terms with the project leader before you begin.

Importantly, if you breach these guidelines, you may be asked to leave the project.

If in doubt about any of these guidelines, or if you have any further questions, please reach out and ask your project leader or Michael Hall (michael.hall@canonical.com).
