{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Benjamin Schulz ==

==== Contact ====
** '''email:''' bjs428@mail.missouri.edu
** '''IRC:''' sl0wpoke
** '''blog:''' http://typeunsafe.wordpress.com
** '''timezone:''' UTC-06 (United States CST)
** '''usually available:''' 02:00 - 06:00 UTC (20:00 - 23:59 local)

==== My Background ====

I am currently a PhD candidate in Computer Science at the University of Missouri-Columbia, under the mentorship of Professor William L. Harrison.  I previously earned a dual Bachelor of Science degree at MU in the areas of Mathematics and Computer Science.  My current research focuses upon compilation and language design, with applications to security and formal verification.  Most of my work has emphasized theoretical aspects of computation, but I also have a moderate amount of programming experience, most of it in either Haskell or C.  My largest project to date has been the end-to-end implementation of a prototype compiler for an experimental language consisting of approximately 15k lines of Haskell and targeting the instruction set of the Xilinx Microblaze processor.  The first detailed publication of my work on this compiler will appear in the 2011 Symposium on Implementing Functional Languages (IFL) as "Implementing a Monadic Language without Implementing a Functional Language", with other publications hopefully to follow.

==== My Interests ====

There is, unfortunately, almost nothing that I find uninteresting, and I am constantly looking for opportunities to learn something new.  My academic research reflects my interest in programming languages and compilation, and this is where most of my real expertise lies.  To a secondary degree, I've also carried this expertise as far as it will go in understanding kernels and other low-level systems programming.  My primary interest at this point, however, is in finding a way to bridge the extremely dense and esoteric theory of the academic literature into something concrete that people will actually use and benefit from, and the best way I see to do this is to begin producing working implementations.

==== My Objectives ====

I would like to balance my theoretical training with practical experience, and do so in a setting that will contribute to a free and open community of technical expertise and shared knowledge.  I would like to find a foothold in the free / open-source communities where I can turn my efforts as much as possible to producing artifacts of maximum utility to the largest number of people possible.  I've decided that the best way to do so is to meet and learn from practitioners already doing that job in the field.  I'm presently on course to join BugSquad, as this seems like a good way to get a feel for the community's protocols and practices, but I hope that along the way I may find opportunities to contribute even more.  I deeply sympathize with the mission and ethos of Ubuntu, and I'd like very much to pitch in and do my part.
