{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slackwarelife]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| slackware_life on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Web site''':
| http://www.openfreedom.org
|}
== Versione Italiana ==
=== Su di me ===

Sono un ragazzo di 30 anni, sono sposato ed ho un bel bambino. Studio Ingegneria Informatica presso il Politecnico di Milano, lavoro sui server presso una banca. Gestisco la rete di un amico in cui ho due server dotati di Ubuntu 6.10 server edition e 50 clients con installato Ubuntu 6.10 desktop edition.
Conosco GNU/Linux dal 2002 e ho potuto utilizzare diverse distribuzioni (Red Hat 8 e 9, Slackware dalla 9.0 alla 11.0, Suse dalla 9.2 alla 10.2 ed Ubuntu dalla 5.10 alla 7.04).
Programmo in PHP pagine web dinamiche e mantengo, anche se ora è in fase di riscrittura, il sito http://www.openfreedom.org che ha alla base lo spirito del software libero a codice aperto, spero al più presto di renderlo nuovamente operativo.

=== Ciò che faccio per Ubuntu ===

==== Supporto ====

* Appena posso cerco di aiutare la comunità nella sezione <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~slackwarelife/|Answerrs]]</nowiki> e nella sezione  <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~slackwarelife/|bugs]]</nowiki>.
* Rispondo sul forum ubuntu-it.org nei momenti liberi.

=== Speranze ===

* Vedere Ubuntu diventare un'alternativa valida ai sistemi desktop proprietari;
* Aumentare la facilità d'uso sui sistemi server con l'aggiunta di nuovi tools grafici; 
* Migliorare ulteriormente la fase di aggiornamento del sistema dalla versione precedente a quella nuova facilitando così anche i meno esperti;

== English Version ==
=== About Me ===

I'm a 30 years old Italian boy, I'm married and I have a beautiful child. I Study Computer science Engineering on the Polytechnic of Milan, I job on Active Directory in a Italian bank and I manage the net of my friend in which I have two server with Ubuntu 6.10 server edition and 50 clients with installed Ubuntu 6.10 desktop edition. I know GNU/Linux from 2002 and have been able to use various distributions (Red Hat 8 and 9, Slackware from the 9.0 to 11.0, Suse from the 9.2 to the 10.2 and Ubuntu from the 5.10 to the 7.04). I program in PHP dynamic pages web and one example is my personal web site http://www.openfreedom.org that has to the base the spirit of the free software to opened code (but now I'm rewriting all of this).

=== What I do for Ubuntu ===
==== Support ====

* <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/~slackwarelife/|Answerrs]]</nowiki> I'm now part of Ubuntu Support Team and when I have a free time, I try to help all I can;
* I try to test Ubuntu in a Server/Clients situation to find how we can made it better;
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~slackwarelife/|bugs]]</nowiki> I report bug on the launchpad-bug;
* When I can, I try to help the italian community on Ubuntu-it forums.

=== Hope ===

* To see Ubuntu to become a valid alternative in the desktop systems share;
* To increase the userfrandly in server systems with adding new graphical tools;
* To improve the updating phase from previous version to new being facilitated therefore less expert users;
