{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Eric Desrochers, apply for sru-uploader.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Eric Desrochers
|-
| '''IRC'''
| slashd
|-
| '''Email'''
| slashd@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~slashd
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/slashd
|}

== Who I am ==
I joined Canonical in August 2014 as a Technical Account Manager within Canonical's STS team. As a result of hard work and effort, I earned respect from my peers. Since then, I got promoted into the Sustaining Engineering team where some of my responsibilities are : driving customer and community bugs into resolution by troubleshooting, fixing bugs, providing guidance & workarounds, for different areas of expertise which may cover areas such as: kernel, drivers, virtualization, network, cloud, storage setups, ... and physical/virtual environment orchestration. Also working with other members within Canonical Ubuntu Engineering, Cloud Development Operations Team, Ubuntu User and Developers Community, Upstream Communities, ...

== My Ubuntu story ==
I officially started to used Ubuntu in 2006 for my personal computers. In the same time, in my professional life, I was also deploying a few hundreds OpenVZ (Virtuozzo) containers running Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake).

Ten years later, I am still running Ubuntu on my personal computers and now have the chance to work for Canonical, the company behind Ubuntu. I've been a Technical Account Manager for 2 years and now I'm in the sustaining engineering team.

=== Ubuntu memberships ===

* '''Ubuntu Contributing Developer'''
* '''Ubuntu Member'''
* '''Ubuntu Bug Control'''
* '''Ubuntu Bug Squad'''

=== My involvement ===

I'm proud to be part of the support team and being responsible to fix userspace, kernel ,... for the Ubuntu community and Canonical customers.

I'm also proud of rbasak and I joint efforts to prepare and then convince the DMB to unanimously vote +1 for the creation of a new launchpad team: sru-uploader.

==== SRU ====

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Eric+Desrochers&sponsoree_search=name|Uploads]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~slashd/+uploaded-packages | Launchpad Uploaded packages]]</nowiki>

==== Kernel ====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1546320

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1581169

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-lts-xenial/+bug/1572630

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1512815

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1650635

* ...

==== Upstream ====

* '''ZFSonLinux (ZoL)''' https://github.com/zfsonlinux/zfs/issues/4680

* '''Sosreport'''  https://github.com/sosreport/sos/pull/934

* '''Makedumpfile'''  (ML : kexec@lists.infradead.org) The fix will be merge in v1.6.2

=== Areas of work ===
I've been mostly involved in fixing userland and kernel bugs for Canonical's UA customers. Working on various packaging aspects including hotfix/testfix, SRUs, backports patches, submit patch to Debian (Of course, to  contribute in fixing Debian but also to prevent the bug to recur in future Ubuntu merge/sync from Debian), Upstream patch, ...  

=== Things I could do better ===
Build and consistently sustain my network by attending more local networking events in my area.
== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I wish one day to have the chance to give back by mentoring someone the same way I've been mentored.
Start participating to the development release with merges and syncs.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
In general, documentation is good but unfortunately not maintained nor updated, which have the effect to turn out-to-date very quickly.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I've worked a lot with Eric for the past two years. He is always ready and capable to solve any issues we encounter and pays attention to details. He would be a great asset for any project he works on. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alexmoldovan]]</nowiki>

I've known Eric for many years and worked with him at different companies. I keep getting impressed by his drive and desire to push himself. This is someone who knows how to get things done. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:davecore]]</nowiki>

I've worked with Eric on several occasions, last was zfs plugin for sosreport. I believe he is going to be a great contributor. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:damian-wojslaw]]</nowiki>

I've worked with Eric for the last two years on the support team.  He's proven to be a highly motivated engineer and he has been extremely helpful.  He offers his time to mentor others freely and he is an excellent example of the creative open paradigm of our linux culture.  All the SRU's I've particpated in have gone through him and he definitely knows what he's doing!  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paradox606]]</nowiki>

I worked with Eric for over a year, and he's consistently been a smart, hardworking contributor.  He's always responsive, and delivers everything he commits to.  His work on creating the sru-uploaders group is great, and will help many on our team both gain Ubuntu recognition and assist with our jobs!  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ddstreet]]</nowiki>

I've worked with Eric in various support elements for the past 4 years. Eric has always been a go-to in the support organization regarding software lifecycle questions (including SRU). He's a core member of the sustained engineering team and doesn't hesitate when it comes to supporting Ubuntu and related projects. I believe having Eric contributing as an sru-uploader would benefit everyone involved. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cydizen]]</nowiki>  

I worked with Eric on a number of bugs, and his assistance has been vital to me in identifying or producing fixes and getting them through the SRU process. I am confident that if he were able to upload his own patches, his attention to detail would produce high-quality results.
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:markthomas]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>

I’ve been working with Eric for almost two years now, first as part of the same team. Throughout, he’s shown himself to be ready to deep dive into intricate issues, and to provide help in a friendly and efficient manner, often before it is even requested. I have found his commitment to solving issues in a proper, sustainable manner to be exemplary, as is his willingness to take others’ comments and observations on board, and generally to learn and improve. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dominique-poulain]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
----
== Endorsements ==

=== cyphermox ===
==== General feedback ====
The packages I've sponsored and other updates I've seen were high quality, and showed a good attention to detail and general willingness to ask questions when usure of what to do. Eric is quick to learn how things work and showed a great thought process in the preseed change I sponsored, coming up with a solid solution I hadn't thought of, and corner cases that had to be dealt with.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I sponsored a preseed and d-i update (netcfg related); and regularly field questions from Eric about things relating to packaging and the Ubuntu processes, such as how the -dbgsym packages work, how d-i builds happen and the testing that goes with them.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I would like to see more uploads and involvement in merges, syncs, etc.

=== mdeslaur ===
==== General feedback ====
While I have only sponsored a single package for Eric, my interactions with him have demonstrated his desire to do things right and his willingness to accept comments and make things better. I think he would make a great member of the sru-uploader team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I sponsored an NTP SRU. The debdiff was nicely done, and I only had a couple of minor nit picks about them. He understands the principles of debian packaging and the SRU process.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
One area I'd like to see improvement in is slightly better formatted changelogs.

=== louis-bouchard ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored five package uploads for Eric so far. I also interact with him on a daily basis since we are working in the same team. His dedication to getting things fixed is notable and he is always eager to learn new things. He has spent an extensive amount of time in teaching himself about the kernel and is interested in all areas of Ubuntu.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
He dedicated a sensible amount of efforts in dealing with the ZFS issue, working with both the Ubuntu community and upstream to bring a solution to this problem. When asked for clarifications, we was ready to answer and bring comments and context.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
As outlined by others, Eric should start to get in involved with merges and syncs and participate with the development release.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:louis-bouchard]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
=== happyaron ===
==== General feedback ====
I have been working with him on zfs related packages, though our co-work experience is not really long, I'd say his updates are of high quality and he is a really nice person to work with.
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:happyaron]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
----
