{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Lukas 'slyon' Märdian, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Lukas Märdian
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~slyon
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <link to your Wiki page>
|}

I am applying because:

* I joined the Canonical Foundations team.
* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
''Tell us a bit about yourself.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Include your existing sponsored uploads for the packages for which you are seeking upload rights. You can link directly to an upload by following <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hello/2.10-1build1|this pattern]]</nowiki>.''

* [MIR] mathjax: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mathjax/+bug/1878937
* [SRU] netplan: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/1871825
* [SRU] netplan: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/1877643
* [SRU] ubuntu-release-upgrader (python-is-python2): https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-release-upgrader/+bug/1875523
* [SRU] apport (snap): https://bugs.launchpad.net/snapd/+bug/1861082
* [Removal] badger (32bit binaries): https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/badger/+bug/1884753
* [DEB] python-httplib2 upstream fix and sync/merge via Debian:
** https://github.com/httplib2/httplib2/pull/168
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-httplib2/+bug/1880113
** https://salsa.debian.org/python-team/modules/python-httplib2/-/merge_requests/4
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-httplib2/0.18.1-1

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
