{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Background ===

I was having a conversation with my Ubuntu buddies recently that spawned some interesting ideas. I thought that the ubuntu-phone list would be a good place to discuss too, so I posted. Then, the discussion grew, so I moved it to the wiki.

=== Problem Statement ===

One thing I've observed on other competitor device platforms (phones, tablets) is that they don't respect the owner's finite attention. Interruptions (also politely called "notifications") are sent by too many apps for too many conditions at times that don't match the owner's availability of ability to deal with them. I've seen people get repeatedly interrupted by their device for the most mundane or irrelevant reasons, usually when they're with someone and don't want to be interrupted or are in a place (or in an activity) where notifications are awkward.

=== Solution Ideas ===

What if we were to adopt, as a central tenet of our notification strategy, this idea:

"Notify the owner only in the way s/he wishes to be notified. Default to being respectful."

Some examples:

* Never notify me
* Notify me when I have the time to read and respond
* Notify me once per hour
* Notify me if someone tags a message as emergency
* Notify me if I'm looking at Telegram
* Notify me only if I am alone
* Notify me immediately if it's my wife/husband
* Notify me if I'm at work
* ... and

Can you think of others? I imagine we could quickly generate a very long (and personal) list of conditions.
Speaking personally, "Smart Interruptions" would be a true *smart* device feature, and a differentiator if Ubuntu were to take this on (foundationally, rather than as an add-on). I'd like to hear your opinions. Is there prior work in this area that we could leverage? Could the system learn what annoys us, and then not repeat an annoying interruption?

Please add your thoughts to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/smart-interruptions/thoughts ... Don't worry too much about the organization... I'll help with that.

Cheers,
Randall.
