{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Howard Chan, apply for Kubuntu Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Howard Chan
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smartboyhw|~smartboyhw]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[smartboyhw]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a 15-year-old student residing in Hong Kong SAR, China. I'm an enthusiast in computer and aiming to get into famous tech universities (e.g. MIT or Cal Tech) and work in Google (or simliar big tech companies).

== My Ubuntu/Kubuntu story ==
My Ubuntu story can be found in <nowiki>[[smartboyhw]]</nowiki> Ubuntu wiki page, and it's a bit long to include it here. But I joined Kubuntu in January 2013 as a new packager. I got my Kubuntu Membership in March 2013.

=== My involvement ===
I normally work on non-KDE core packages such as Calligra (I packaged 2.6.0, 2.6.1, 2.6.2, 2.6.3, one patch in 2.6.92 and 2.7.1) and Rekonq (2.1, 2.2, 2.2.1, 2.3.1, 2.3.2). Other applications include Homerun, NetworkManagement, Digikam and Amarok. I also asked for 3 syncs (I can't do it myself, you know). I keep track of Planet KDE and when there is a new release I will package it (or give it to others if I don't have the time on that day). For the past few months I started participating more into KDE SC packaging itself, including a whole bunch of kde-l10n and package fixes in 4.10.90 (my best packaging work). My whole packaging log can be found at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~smartboyhw/+related-packages|here]]</nowiki>
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Things I'm proud of: KDE SC 4.10.90 packaging. I managed to push a whole bunch of language pack updates, fixed half of the build failures in the Ninjas PPA (and learning a LOT about symbols). That was my most hard-working yet exciting packaging experience.
Examples: Check out the Rekonq and Calligra packages. 
=== Areas of work ===
Packaging, and also testing for new releases. Sometimes also do seed management also.

=== Things I could do better ===
1. Make sure I get used to symbols. I got fed up with symbols when I was doing the KDE SC 4.10.90 package fixes, but now I'm more accustomed to it.
2. Make sure I check the changelog before uploading (especially when backporting). 
3. Contribute back to KDE.

== Plans for the future ==
1. Join Season of KDE (I do have a project in mind already with a sponsor (a.k.a Jonathan Thomas), I need it accepted though)
2. Really participate in an entire KDE SC packaging cycle (initial upload to ninjas -> fixing -> uploading to 
archive -> backporting)
3. More active participation in Kubuntu

=== General ===
I hope that I can be accepted as the 14th (excluding the Ubuntu Core Devs, and 14 is not a lucky number in China:P) Kubuntu Developer
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
SRU processes and also disagreements between Canonical and Ubuntu community. I can't fix the latter one at all, but I would suggest that the SRU processes can pass as long as they pass some sort of automatic tests (hand verification is much better though)
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
