{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== 7 july 2015 Snappy Open House ==
Inaugural open house, July 7th, 1400 - 1600 UTC. Find us on <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuonair.com|ubuntuonair.com]]</nowiki> and on the <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#snappy|#snappy]]</nowiki> IRC channel on freenode.

=== The image ===
We'll be flashing using ubuntu-device-flash to generate the 15.04 edge image (see the cheatsheet below).

Follow the instructions on <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/en/snappy/start/|flash your intended target]]</nowiki>, making sure you use the image above instead of the stable image.

=== Testing ===
Once you are flashed, you are ready to test. We have a <nowiki>[[http://bit.ly/1KHQZF6|form to fill in the results and feedback from your testing]]</nowiki>. It also has some suggestions for areas to focus on and test. Simply load the page and add your comments. You can start taking the <nowiki>[[https://developer.ubuntu.com/en/snappy/tutorials/using-snappy/|snappy tour]]</nowiki>.

==== Cheatsheet ====

Install the tools-proposed PPA:

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:snappy-dev/tools-proposed
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install snappy-tools bzr
</pre>

Download the image and start it on KVM

<pre>
sudo ubuntu-device-flash core 15.04 --channel edge --oem generic-amd64 --install=webdm --enable-ssh --output ubuntu-15.04-snappy-amd64-generic.img
kvm -m 512 -redir :8090::80 -redir :8022::22 -redir :4200::4200 ubuntu-15.04-snappy-amd64-generic.img
</pre>

Some things to try on the snappy machine:

Install a snap:

<pre>
snappy search hello-world
sudo snappy install hello-world
hello-world.echo
</pre>

Flash previous image:

<pre>
sudo ubuntu-device-flash --revision=-1 core 15.04 --channel edge --oem generic-amd64 --install=webdm --enable-ssh --output ubuntu-15.04-snappy-amd64-generic-1.img
kvm -m 512 -redir :8090::80 -redir :8022::22 -redir :4200::4200 ubuntu-15.04-snappy-amd64-generic-1.img
</pre>

On the snappy machine, update to the latest:

<pre>
sudo snappy update
</pre>

Get the image for BeagleBone Black

<pre>
sudo ubuntu-device-flash core 15.04 --channel edge --oem beagleblack --install=webdm --enable-ssh --output ubuntu-15.04-snappy-armhf-bbb.img
</pre>

=== I found a bug! ===
You should file bugs for all issues found, and include a summary of what is needed to recreate the issue. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/snappy/+filebug|File all bugs against snappy]]</nowiki>. Note the bug you filed in the form as well. If you aren't sure how to file a bug, simply note the issue in the form and / or talk to us on IRC. We can help ensure the issue is noted.

=== Help! I'm stuck! ===
Hang out in #snappy and let us know what's happening. We're here to help, and curious if you do find any bugs or issues, including places where the documentation might be confusing or wrong. Feel free to speak up and talk to us.

Thanks for helping make snappy better!
