{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

I've set up this page to summarize problems and known workarounds for people having trouble using snd-hda-intel as driver for their sound chipsets.
Multimedia related features of working sound input and output are absolutely crucial today. I hope this helps to improve the driver for the affected machines. Most of Intel compatible machines shipped this days - especially laptops - need this module for the sound, but there seems to be a lot of problems with it too.

=== Main issues ===

I found problems to belong to three main groups:

* Chipsets that do not work at all out-of-the box. They usually require the ''model'' kernel parameter to be specified manually in ''/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base''. The list of known models can be found in the kernel source in the file ''Documentation/alsa/ALSA-Configuration.txt'' under the section for the model (currently around line 758). Several chipsets which work (or work partially) are not listed here.

* Laptop models whose internal microphone does not work.

* Models whose external microphone port does not work. Some produce just silence, some hang the recording application, some produce utterly jerky sound.

=== How to report? ===

First check your ''lsmod'' and ''lspci'' output. The first must show snd_hda_intel as being used. The second must show something similar to ''Audio device: Intel Corporation HD Audio Controller''. These chips are not all the same! Issue 
<pre>
cat /proc/asound/card*/codec\#*|grep -i codec
</pre>
from the command line to see which one do you have. First check now whether you sound input works. Then check - if you have one - your built-in microphone and then your external microphone. For this you can utilize krec or a Skype test call. Usually you have to tune the mixer settings first. The microphone must be selected as the input device and its sound volume must be turned on, not muted. Sometimes the external and internal microphone is transposed in the mixer. Try to play around, and make sure that the problem is not on your side (e.g. the microphone you are using really works fine). If everything works, you are lucky ;) .

If you experience some problems, please do not report it here. This page is only for summarizing the problems. Report directly to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug|the ALSA bug-tracker]]</nowiki>. First check if your chipset/codec is not already reported as being problematic. If so, try to add your report there.

Now get this <nowiki>[[http://git.alsa-project.org/?p=alsa-driver.git;a=blob_plain;f=utils/alsa-info.sh|script]]</nowiki>. If you run it, it fetches all the relevant information on your sound architecture, it can also post it to a public database. You can refer to this in a bugreport so developers can more easily see which card/system you are using. It does not post any personal information.

Now also try workarounds relevant to your card and please report your results.

=== Workarounds ===

* Try to explicitly specify your model as module parameter.

* Try to lower the recording volume.

* Try to reload you kernel module:
<pre>
/etc/init.d/alsa-utils stop
rmmod snd_hda_intel
modprobe snd-hda-intel
/etc/init.d/alsa-utils start
</pre>

* Try to select one of the channels of your card instead of the default ''ALSA capture'' as recording source.

=== Remarks ===

If you just see other bug descriptions with chips/codecs having problems feel free to list them here. Also feel free to extend this page for example to include similar driver issues related to different kernel modules.

=== Table of problems ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Chip/Codec'''
| '''Version numbers'''
| '''Out-of-the box behaviour'''
| '''Recording'''
| '''Workarounds'''
| '''References'''
|-
| Conexant CX20549 (Venice)
| Ubuntu 8.04 kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
| output works
| bulit-in mic never works, external mic unrecognisable jerky, mixer settings interchanged
| none, codec not in kernel doc list
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24/+bug/278648
|-
| Conexant CX20551 (Waikiki)
| Ubuntu 9.04+
| Output works, PCM volume incorrectly thinks 100% is 0dB.
| Mic is silent
| model=laptop-eapd fixes the external mic input.
|-
| SigmaTel STAC9228
| 2.6.24-12-generic
| output works
| mic doesn't work
| model=dell-3stack and selecting digital mic 1 as input source makes the internal mic working, external mic remains silent
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/+bug/188972
|-
| STAC92xx Analog (DUPLEX)
| 2.6.24-14-generic
| sound not working
| not working
| none
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/+bug/188972/comments/12
|-
| ALC861VD Analog (DUPLEX)
| 2.6.24-15-generic
| output works
| not working
| none
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/+bug/188972/comments/13
|-
| ALC268 Analog (DUPLEX)
| 2.6.24-16-generic
| output works
| mics doesn't work
| model=dell-3stack and selecting digital mic 1 as input source makes the internal mic working
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/+bug/188972/comments/16
|-
| Realtek ALC262
| 2.6.22-11-generic
| output works
| internal mic doesn't work
| none
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/141445
|-
| Codec: SigmaTel STAC9205 Codec: Generic 11c1 Si3054
| 64-bit gutsy
| doesn't work
| not working
| with model=dell-m42 it works
| http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=616845
|-
| Realtek ALC883
| unknown
| doesn't work
| not working
| with model=laptop-eapd it works
|-
| Codec: Motorola Si3054 Codec: Realtek ALC883
| 2.6.27
| has problems with stereo headphones
| not working
| stereo headphone issue can be resolved by model=lenovo-ms7195-dig, neverthless sound recording doesn't work
|-
| Codec: Realtek ALC268 Codec: Conexant ID 2c06
| 
| output works
| not working
| none
|-
| Codec: Analog Devices AD1984A
| Karmic-generic up to and including 2.6.31-15
| output works
| internal mic not working
| none
| https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/440251
|-
| Codec: Realtek ALC892
| Maverick 2.6.35-22-generic
| output works on boot then intermittently stops. No errors logged.
| not tested
| none
|}
