{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~snicksie|snicksie]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x7BF7AE74A1B8B6A64D01AFA3511893FD87AA4443&op=index|87AA4443]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1363913|Snicksie]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| Snicksie''(FreeNode)''
|-
| '''Ask Ubuntu''':
| <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/26225/snicksie|Snicksie]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
I am Neline, also known as Snicksie on the internet. At the moment I'm 19 years old. I'm studying informatics and have already some experience with developing and other stuff related to computers. 

I started playing around with computers when I was 14. First I started simple, with HTML, CSS and other related stuff. A friend taught me something about PHP, so I started developing in PHP. After some time, I decided I wanted to use Ubuntu, so I started searching for information, installed an extra harddisk and installed Ubuntu as a dualboot. I rarely used windows anymore, so my next computer only had an Ubuntu installation.

Even though it sometimes was quite difficult for me to get everything working, I still prefered Ubuntu. After a time with a MacBook, which I named "coffeebook" after I spilled some coffee on it, I decided I wanted a full installation again. A virtual machine was not really what I wanted, so I tried to get everything working perfectly again. After a few installations my linux finally was working again and I like it!

==== Programming Knowledge ====
** Java (average)
** PHP (good)
** MySQL (average)
** HTML (good)
** CSS (good)
** javascript (good)
*** jQuery (average)
** Actionscript 3 (average)
** C++ (some)
*** Qt (some)
*** SDL (some)
** VB.net (average)
** Ruby (some)
** SVG (some)

=== Team Memberships ===
{*} Ubuntu Beginners Team

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
I would like to get more involved in fixing bugs and developing for the Ubuntu community.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
* Being active at IRC ( #ubuntu ; #ubuntu-beginners ; #ubuntu-beginners-team ; #ubuntu-nl ; #ubuntu-nl-mwanzo )
* Added some Dutch translations.
* 12 Oct 2011: Fixed my first bug with the help of <nowiki>[[duanedesign]]</nowiki> ( <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu/+bug/872151|#872151]]</nowiki> )
* 28 Nov 2011: Helped with the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter after <nowiki>[[lyz|pleia2]]</nowiki> asked for help in the #ubuntu-beginners-team channel ( <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter-Issue243]]</nowiki> )
* Helped some MacBook people on askubuntu with some problems I've had too (<nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/26225/snicksie|AskUbuntu profile]]</nowiki>)
* Fixed some typo-bugs, some of them needed to be sent upstream ( <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/889721|#889721]]</nowiki>) ; some bugs seemed already solved upstream, <nowiki>[[dholbach|Daniel Holbach]]</nowiki> explained me some more about it.

== Testimonials ==

----
CategoryHomepage
