{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== What's snwh? ===
Not what, who. I, Sam Hewitt, am "snwh" –which is derived from my initials.

I am a designer (with some coding skills) from Canada's rocky east coast, now living in the middle.

I've done just about everything in open source and currently contribute to free software projects like Ubuntu and GNOME (among others). I design, develop and maintain the open-source <nowiki>[[http://mokaproject.com/|Moka Project]]</nowiki>. 

As such, my workflow relies on free software and could not do without projects like Inkscape and GIMP.

=== Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://snwh.org|snwh.org]]</nowiki>
|-
| Blog
| <nowiki>[[http://snwh.org/blog|snwh.org/blog]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| <nowiki>[[mailto:--snwh@ubuntu.com|snwh@ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~snwh|~snwh]]</nowiki>
|-
| GitHub
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/snwh|snwh]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Testimonials ===

I have known Sam Hewitt for couple of months now as part of the Freyja Development team and his contribution to the team and to Ubuntu has been of high quality. He is very enthusiastic about his work and I highly recommend him for Ubuntu membership. -- <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jokerdino|jokerdino]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~barneedhar|(Launchpad)]]</nowiki>

I have worked with Sam Hewitt for half an year in Freyja and I must say that his work is of high quality and Unity Tweak Tool wouldn't have been what it is now without his work. He is very enthusiastic about what he does and he tends to make it perfect. Another really valuable quality of his is that he tends to learn stuff really quickly and it really helps to have a quick learner jack of all trades in our team. -- <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/me4oslav|me4oslav]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kokoto-java|(Launchpad)]]</nowiki>

I've greatly enjoyed watching Sam and George inject some fresh enthusiasm around design, working with developers in the community to improve the interface and visual branding of their applications.  Ubuntu has long been in need of a stronger community of designers, and the work and collaboration from these two guys has been exactly the kind of thing we need more of.  I fully endorse Sam's bid for Ubuntu Membership.  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 
First of all, Sam is a super nice guy, and that counts for a lot in my book. During some of the recent heated discussions in the Ubuntu world, Sam was calm and level-headed, also an excellent quality in my book. But most of all, I love Sam's icon design work. Sure, his icons are beautiful, but what impresses me even more is how clearly his icons convey a complex idea. Like his crash-report icon (a paper airplane with the nose slightly crush)... brilliant! Sam has proven himself a leader in the Ubuntu design community, and I strongly recommend him for Ubuntu Membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jderose]]</nowiki> 
''If you know me, feel free to leave a testimonial :-)''
