{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is initial work on the SFD "Starter Manual" which is designed to be:
 1. an introduction for people who stumble onto the site
 2. a guide for potential team leaders

The SoftwareFreedomDayStarterManual consists of:
 1. FAQ
** link to <nowiki>[[http://go-opensource.org/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=22&Itemid=37|Go-OpenSource FAQ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://sfd2004.org/faq.html|Old SFD FAQ]]</nowiki>
 2. Do/Don't list
** DO present the capabilities and practical benefits of FOSS.
*** DO NOT pretend that FOSS is perfect for everyone or everything.
** DO have the ability to present FOSS ideology clearly and concisely to interested people.
*** DO NOT beat uninterested people over the head with ideology; this will confuse and intimidate them.  Instead...
** DO let the quality of the software speak for itself and its ideology.
** DO have demo machines present if possible.
** DO your best to connect people with a local FOSS community.
** DO provide contact information for your SFD team so people can susequently contact you for more information.
** DO get contact information from interested and willing people, so you can proactively follow-up with them later.
** DO proactively follow-up with people who attend your SFD event.
** DO find and cooperate with other SFD teams in your area.
** DO start other SFD teams in your area - this is cooperation, not competition!
** DO NOT (and I repeat) DO NOT bash Microsoft or SCO or any other false <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/microsoft.html|Great Satan]]</nowiki>.  Software Freedom Day is not about any individual companies or people; Software Freedom Day is a positive celebration of Software Freedom.·
 3. Target group identification
** government
** business
*** small
*** big
** families

     '''Plan an event to reach your target group.'''
 4. Event Scenarios (every scenario distributes CDs and literature)
   Here is a starting list:
    1. set up simple public booth, hand out CDs
**** Possibly have demo machines present
    2. hold installation workshop(s) and combined FOSS installfests (not just Linux, but also Windows FOSS)
**** possibly lab-based installfests in schools/businesses
**** possibly cooperate with local computer store to do an in-store installfest...possibly with discounts for associated purchases?
**** advertise to "revitalize" slow computers - delete those virus/adware/spyware-ridden Windows OSes and install Linux!
    3. hold seminar on IP, Free Culture, Patents
    4. have a cultural event - food, drink, music (jam session? - "open-source music")
**** FSF was founded in 1985, so this is the 20th anniversary of Software Freedom.  Celebrate Free Software with a birthday party...
    5. organize an expo to highlight small businesses using FOSS

CategoryMarketing
