{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''MuseScore''' is a music scorewriter for Linux, Microsoft Windows and Mac OSX. MuseScore is a WYSIWYG editor, complete with support for score playback and import/export of MusicXML and standard MIDI files. Percussion notation is supported, as is direct printing from the program. MuseScore is translated in 30 languages.
The program has a clean user interface, with fast note editing input similar to the step-time note entry found in the popular commercial scorewriting software packages, Finale and Sibelius.
MuseScore is free software, published under the GNU General Public License.

=== Capabilities ===
 
MuseScore is able to import and export from many different music formats, including MIDI and MusicXML, as well as the importing of files from the commercial music arranging software, Band-in-a-Box. It is able to produce engraved output as a PDF, SVG or PNG document, or alternatively, music can be exported to GNU LilyPond for subsequent tweaking of the output. The music is played back thanks to a Soundfont and can be saved as OGG, WAV or FLAC.

=== Development ===
MuseScore is an outgrowth of MusE, a MIDI sequencer for Linux. In 2002, Werner Schweer decided to "cut MusE's notation capabilities out of the sequencer and rewrite it as a standalone notation editor."(Dave Phillips, "<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/8972|At the Sounding Edge: Music Notation Software, the Final Installment]]</nowiki>," ''Linux Journal'' (6 April 2006)). The rewrite is based on the cross-platform Qt toolkit.

=== Installing MuseScore ===

Open a Terminal window.

Type the following:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install mscore
</pre>

=== Installing from PPA ===

MuseScore is distributed as stable and unstable release from <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsmithe|Toby Smithe]]</nowiki> PPA.

=== External links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.musescore.org/en | MuseScore homepage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.nabble.com/MuseScore-Developer-f30380.html |MuseScore mailinglist]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://delicious.com/musescore | MuseScore articles]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://mustech.net/2008/10/07/musescore-a-free-open-source-music |MusTech.net review, October 7th, 2008]]</nowiki>
