{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the draft of an article to be posted on the <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/|SFD website]]</nowiki>.
------
Software Freedom Day Around the World: 2004

The first international SFD was celebrated on August 28, 2004.  We received reports from several teams around the world.

Many teams posted photos (which we will re-post soon) and some teams sent emails.  In 2004 we had more than 70 registered teams, and we estimate that between 20 and 30 active teams distributed between 5000 and 7000 CD packs.

We specifically received feedback from teams in the following locations:
* Australia (Canberra, Melbourne)
* Belgium (Zwijnaarde)
* Denmark (Copenhagen)
* Hungary (Szeged)
* India (Goa, Hyderabad)
* Israel (Tel Aviv)
* Macedonia (Skopje)
* Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur)
* Netherlands (Arnhem)
* New Zealand (Christchurch)
* Nigeria (Kafanchan, Lagos)
* South Africa
* United Kingdom (Oxford, Edinburgh)
* USA (Boston, New York)

(If your team should be on this list but isn't, we apologize.  Email us and we'll correct it.)

And we did get a spate of last-minute publicity, though most of it unfortunately attributed SFD to the U.N.'s IOSN group!
We even got the attention of the BBC: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/3601710.stm

Other coverage:
* http://developers.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=04/08/26/0135214&tid=117&tid=109&tid=8&tid=106&tid=218
* http://www.linuxinsider.com/story/Software-Freedom-Day-A-New-Holiday-for-Open-Source-36147.html
* http://www.infoworld.com/article/04/08/25/HNunorganizes_1.html
* http://www.smh.com.au/articles/2004/08/25/1093246588220.html?from=storyrhs (registration required)
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Freedom_Day
