{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': None
* '''Created''': 2012-07-30
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:elachuni]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-webcatalog

Extend the current Software Center and Web Catalog to display a badge or emblem indicating a prize, participation or other form or recognition that an app developer would want to highlight.

=== Rationale ===

App developers want to showcase awards their app has received.

=== User stories ===

To be added

=== Requirements ===

Add data models and public API to apps.ubuntu.com (ubuntu-webcatalog) for the display of badges

These should not only be used for display, but users should be able to search for apps by their associated badges.  Example "Show me all the App Showdown winners"

Attributing a badge to an app should be done by the Consumer Apps team or App Review board. 

App authors should request that a badge be added(through MyApps), and then one of the two teams must verify that the app should indeed be given that attribution.

Available badges should be defined in the database, not hard-coded, and be maintained  by the Consumer Apps team or App Review board.

As it's going to be part of the Apps Directory, associating to an Application instance will make it distroseries-specific (though not version specific).

=== Contributions ===

Need to have reasonable unit test coverage, all tests must pass

Need to follow PEP8

Need to sign contributor agreement

=== Data Models ===

==== Required ====
'''Badge:'''
* short_name - alphanumeric lowercase kind of name (maybe?)
* name - displayable name
* description - short description
* image - URL to an image file
* website - link to a website associated with the badge

'''Award:'''
* app - the app+distro being given the award (ForeignKey)
* version - version of the app that was given the award (maybe?)
* badge - the awarded badge (ForeignKey)
* issued - date the app was given the award

==== Optional ====
'''AwardRequest (on MyApps):'''
* app: ForeignKey to app
* badge: ForeignKey to Badge

=== Public API ===

 /api/1.0/badges/
 [
     {'id': 1,
      'name': 'App Showdown Winner',
      'description': "Winner of the 2012 Ubuntu App Showdown",
      'image': 'http://apps.ubtunu.com/media/badges/appshowdown.png',
      'website': 'http://developer.ubuntu.com/showdown'
      },
]

/api/1.0/awards/en/ubuntu/quantal/showdownwinners/

 /api/1.0/awards/en/ubutu/quantal/
 [
     {
      'app': 'freeciv',
      'version': 12.15.32,
      'badge_id': 3,
      'badge_name': 'Best Game Ever',
      'issued': 2012-07-30,
      'badge_image': 'https://apps.ubuntu.com/site_media/badges/bge.png',
      'badge_website': 'https://best.game.ever.ubuntu.com'
      },
     {
      'app': 'braid',
      'version': 1.0,
      'badge_name': 'Best Game Ever',
      'issued': 2012-07-31,
      'badge_image': 'https://apps.ubuntu.com/site_media/badges/bge.png',
      'badge_website': 'https://best.game.ever.ubuntu.com'
      },
]

=== Unresolved issues ===

Highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

----
CategorySpec
