{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This document indexes the various specifications for how software should be presented to people using Ubuntu.

Major components:
* <nowiki>[[SoftwareCenter|Ubuntu Software Center]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SoftwareUpdates|Software updates]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SoftwarePackageOperations|Package operations]]</nowiki> performed for both of those by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/aptdaemon|Aptdaemon]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sessioninstaller|Session Installer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ReleaseUpgrades|Release upgrades]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SoftwareAndUpdatesSettings|“Software & Updates” settings]]</nowiki> (including <nowiki>[[SoftwareAndUpdatesSettings#drivers|the choice to install proprietary drivers]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[FoundationsTeam-Specs-LucidUpdateManagerStopTheLine]]</nowiki>
* SoftwareMetadata (deriving icons, titles, etc of packages for presentation by Ubuntu Software Center and Software Updater)
* AptUrlRedirector
* DebConfHandling
* <nowiki>[[http://dev.launchpad.net/ArchiveIndex|Archive index]]</nowiki> for package metadata

* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/upgrading-running-software|Upgrading running desktop software]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-lucid-user-contributed-metadata-for-software-center|User-contributed metadata]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-lucid-software-center-history-of-packaging-transactions|History of packaging transactions]]</nowiki>
* http://wiki.debian.org/SessionInstaller/UserInterface

=== Other elements ===

* <nowiki>[[NGO-OfflineUpdating]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://keryxproject.org/|Keryx]]</nowiki>

* cleaning up debconf presentation

* <nowiki>[[DVD_Playback]]</nowiki>

----

=== Random notes ===

Increase use of `apt:` links by Ubuntu enthusiasts, software projects, and ISVs, replacing terminal commands or standalone downloads. This will likely involve:
  
* Prominent and highly understandable information on ubuntu.com about how to get your software (whether Free or non-Free) packaged for Ubuntu.
* An `apt:` evangelism campaign for projects that already have their software packaged in the Ubuntu repositories.

Fine-tune the interface presented when software updates are available. This may involve:
* Presentation of the new <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-Specifications-USNSpec|better descriptions of security updates]]</nowiki>.
* When updates are presented automatically, collapsing the list of updates by default, concentrating instead on the existence of updates and the choice to install them now or later.

Establish a system within <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> for registered users to suggest a better description, category, keywords, and/or screenshot for a software package, and for the package maintainer to incorporate those changes into a new version of the package, so that end users can find the software more easily later.
