{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Things Discussed in the Session ===

* When Maximised there are lots of Empty space so we need suggestions on what to include. (As in categories)
** Probably Chrome/Firefox Themes/Extensions?
** provide more info for apps in Featured and What's New
** short description, screenshot
** mpt says that the problem we have is quality of data
*** developer should be able to specify screenshot, app name for display, category, etc.
*** something like StackExchange? (alternativeto.net?)
** add a "recommendations" section as we integrate Zeitgeist
   
* mpt says that the problem we have is quality of data
** developer should be able to specify screenshot, app name for display, category, etc.
** something like StackExchange? (alternativeto.net?)
* purchase experience
** make it more embedded into the main app
** better progress for the overall task
** other than that, fine tune on server side
** save credit card details, for instance
** login dialog
** will use the Ubuntu SSO one, it will be improved
** Zeitgeist features
  
* mpt will update his 4.0 mockup (currently a year old)
* screenshots
** do we need our own server?  mvo likes sharing with debian
* Launchpad
** would like to implement server-side metadata so that we could remove the need for app-install-data
** talked about a plan at Prague
** it's a fairly large task to do this
* download bundles
** talk to apt-on-cd folks
* categorized list view
** there are performance difficulties with this

=== List of bugs/enhancements/topics from Peter ===

* app:
** ppa's don't always appear/disappear when sources are added/removed
** what do we want to do about s-c supporting (multi)touch? (whatever that really means..)
** it would be nice if s-c supported querying apps based on mimetype to an extent usable by other apps (think ubufox plugin finding etc)
** revisit argument parsing (ie pkgname1/Appnamepart1 Appnamepart2 vs pkgname1/Appname pkgname2)
** current refreshes after cache updates are generally not nice
** people want to know which deps are being pulled in
** is the current selection of categories working?
** how to get apps into the correct categories?

* backend:
** haven't checked if it's plausibly doable - but ideally we don't duplicate entries in the db (ie think pkgname and pkgname/appname when there is only one app provided by the pkg) (this will simplify list view coding, and fix a few bugs)
** try to use more of the same code for the details for list views / details views
** can we download multiple apps at once (aptdaemon)

* details:
** allow upgrading on a single package basis - when we launch s-c in the details view we want to know the exact status, ie not only is it installed/removed, but also is it outdated?
** support of multiple actions is required here, ie we need to present 'remove' and 'upgrade' as an option in the main interface - not neccessarily just hidden in the file menu
** the updates text would seem a bit long and meaningless - do we need it? (ie details view is getting busier and busier - what are our priorities?)
** how to deal with multiple versions of one app (ie ppa/deb file/from archive/old version from archive etc) (second action bar for deb files in sketches)
** are the addons we choose of high enough quality?
** simulate action before enabling action button (to avoid aptdaemon errors when for instance broken dependencies)
** deb files need bg for quick visual identification
** license field is vague - can we get more precise info?
** one click addon install? (ie no action bar)
** does having a pkgname in a version field really make sense? (not that I have any better suggestions atm ;) )
** it would be sweet if all errors had the same page layout - ie not sometimes error in description field, sometimes in summary field etc.

* lists:
** searches are slow
** lists need sorting by appname, not pkgname
** commercial apps need to be recognisable as such
** search quality is low - ie precise pkgname matches don't even appear as first result
** installed pkg counts don't work (they take time to calculate as well)
** sometimes action buttons of previous app are displayed
** don't list unavailable pkgs in partners
** hide addon pkgs and transitional pkgs from list views? (unless we have a precise search match)

* history:
** want appnames rather than packages
** must always be up-to-date (currently the history is only parsed on startup)
** want something clickable, so we can either view details, or revert a change, etc
** hide deps which were pulled in, either completely, or under an expander
** can we forget about history after a while, or am I meant to care about what I did at 21:11:10 on the 3rd of July 2006?
** some of the timings are far to precise (ie no one cares about the seconds)
** what about relative time rather than absolute time (ie 'two weeks ago')?
** is categorisation per day the best choice?
** it's not very easy to visually distinguish between the pkgname, version, action, date
** currently expanding a day and then changing the filter hangs

* the project:
** bug reports are great things - how to deal with them effectively (ie closing old/unusable bugs, swiftly dealing with recent good bugs etc)
** work items vs bugs (but yeah - this spans way beyond just s-c..)
** inspiring community involvement - how do we show what we're currently working on etc? Would a weekly summary be an interesting idea?
** testing (regressions..)

* startup speed:
** main theme is just 'only do what you need to do when you need to do it'
** use cat/subcat/list/details views as the primary pane types which we load on demand, rather than the available pane, installed pane, channel pane etc - installed/available etc can just be a flag - currently we load like 3 details views on startup and history panes and stuff we don't need on startup)
** import statements in the code itself (ie avoids running stuff we don't need on startup), rather than up the top of the file (when possible)
** importing xml parsing utils takes time - avoiding xml for featured / what's new is doable - not sure about the categories menu
** plugins take time to load (think oneconf)
** performance regression tracking (unlikely for natty ;) )
** load channel listings after startup (ie sidebar)
