{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''From Software Freedom Day Website
(http://softwarefreedomday.org/)''

 ... is a worldwide celebration of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS). Our goal in this celebration is to educate the worldwide public about the benefits of using high quality FOSS in education, in government, at home, and in business -- in short, everywhere!

The non-profit organization Software Freedom International coordinates SFD at a global level, providing support, giveaways and a point of collaboration, but volunteer teams around the world organize the local SFD events to impact their own communities.

Many thanks to our Sponsors and Supporters without whom we could not make such an event happen.

* Find out more about Software Freedom International and SFD....
* Read about how <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/en/sfd/software-freedom|Software Freedom]]</nowiki> underpins your human rights from our former President, Pia Waugh
* Also find out more about Free Software.

=== Our Vision ===

Our vision is to empower all people to freely connect, create and share in a digital world that is participatory, transparent, and sustainable.

=== Our Objectives ===

1. to celebrate software freedom and the people behind it

1. to foster a general understanding of software freedom, and encourage adoption of free software and open standards

1. to create more equal access to opportunities through the use of participatory technologies

1. to promote constructive dialogue on responsibilities and rights in the information society

1. to be inclusive of organizations and individuals that share our Vision

1. to be pragmatic, transparent, and responsible as an organisation
