{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

HI!
About 10 years ago i discovered a new exciting operating system (Linux/unix). I got my start with a unix shell account learning my way around the *nix style file system and leaning basic commands for editing files and various other things. A few years later i started getting more into being a full Linux user so i decided to try out Debian. While getting excited about Linux I decided to look around for a Linux distro that would suit my needs. So i stumbled upon Ubuntu Edgy. Fascinating! Since then i've been a dedicated user trying to promote Ubuntu to the best of my abilities. Since then im proud to say i currently run Xubuntu 7.10 and have gotten a few people to try it out. My personal feeling is Ubuntu is a great OS to learn on and use in the workplace. Also i'd like to note that Ubuntu has the best community by far and has an outstanding group of individuals helping keep current on updates, bug fixes, and general help. I feel proud to have joined the LoCo group in Arizona. Dedicating my time to helping others is now a part of my life and i'd like to keep it that way.  

__Contact__

*** IRC: soldats irc.freenode.net #ubuntu,#ubuntu-us-az,#xubuntu, and sometimes #xfce
*** EMAIL: tehgimmick AT gmail DOT com
*** If for some reason you'd like to ask questions please feel free to get ahold of me. I'd be more than happy to help.

----
CategoryArizonaTeam
