{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Seongho Choo, apply for universe-contributor for packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Seongho Choo
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~freedancer
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Seongho Choo]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
Just a man.

== My Ubuntu story ==
Have been tracking ubuntu releases.

=== My involvement ===
<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/ubuntu-ko|Ubuntu Korean Team]]</nowiki>

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Korean translation in Ubuntu Jaunty (9.04) :
alsa-utils, bluetooth-manager in bluz-gnome, debian-installer, libc in glibc, kchart in koffice, console-tools, firefox in firefox-3.0, xulrunner in xulrunner-1.9, deskbar-applet, coreutils, bootloader in gfxboot-theme-ubuntu, gnome-system-tools, update-notifier, update-manager, gcc-3.4, libgnome-2.0 in libgnome, adept, gnome-session-2.0 in gnome-session, apt,  truck, adduser, acl, about-ubuntu/basic-commands/musicvideophotos/keeping-safe/internet/programming in ubuntu-docs, internet/musicvideophotos/programming switching in xubuntu-docs, gnome-applets-2.0 in gnome-applets, bacula, software-properties, gnome-control-center, synaptic, konqueror in kdebase, gnome-panel-2.0 in gnome-panel, gnome-session-2.0 in gnome-session

* Korean translation of Endian Firewall

=== Areas of work ===
Some korean translations.  Also hope to coding programs related ubuntu packages.

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
