{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== About ====
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=411363|Sorivenul]]</nowiki> from Ubuntu Forums. View my testimony <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=956847|here]]</nowiki>.

I have been using Linux and the BSD systems since 2003, and Ubuntu since 2006.  I am a student, a husband, and a father of one and soon to be two.  Currently, I am employed at the University as a Technology Fellow, which is a euphuistic term for "tech assistant".  I spend my precious free time on the Forums, writing, composing, or programming.

I am currently using Ubuntu 8.10 and FreeBSD 7.1-STABLE for my production work. I regularly test new distribution releases and software. I am active in the Absolute Beginners Talk, General Help, Programming Talk, and Other OS Talk subforums on Ubuntu Forums.

==== Preferences ====
To allow users the freedom of choice, I rarely mention my personal preferences regarding software on the forums, instead opting to explain possible choices I have tested. I have taken the liberty of posting my preferences here for those that are interested.

'''Desktop Environment''' - Xfce

I rarely use a full Desktop Environment, but keep Xfce and GNOME installed to be of more assistance around the Forums.

'''Window Manager''' - ion2, XMonad, ratpoison, or AntiWM

If you can't tell, I'm a fan of tiling or tabbed window management when I'm in a GUI. I feel more organized, and function better, though I understand this type of setup is not for everyone.  

'''Editor''' - Vim

My vote sits with Vim, whether or not I'm involved in the "Editor Wars". I invested the time to learn it and it suits my needs. I feel like I'm a better, though not superior, person for it.

'''IDE''' - Geany

Geany is a fantastic, lightweight IDE that works for just about any programming language. When I'm learning something new, I find Geany to be a complete solution.

'''IRC client''' - irssi

This is a given. Though many graphical IRC clients exist, few implementations come close to that or irssi.

==== Projects ====
At any given time I am working on a number of projects.  The current sourcecode for two of my fledgling Python applications is available through Bazaar on Launchpad. I suppose one of these days I should actually use my Java and C++ schooling, but with the prevalence of Python in Linux and BSD I decided to add another language to my list first. I apologize ahead of time for any bugs; if you should find one, please report it to me, as well as any suggestions or requests.

'''fourBar''' - A definite work in progress. I got tired of bars and panels with unnecessary buttons and widgets cluttering my precious desktop real-estate. With that in mind, I created fourBar. Basically, it is an application launcher for four commonly used applications (a terminal, a text editor, a file manager, and a web browser). I have features in mind to add, as well as bugs to work out, despite its current 1.0.0 version.

'''PySumpas''' - A work in progress as well. To find out more about PySumpas and the theory behind it, read my tutorial <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1009447|HowTo: Create a Secure Password]]</nowiki> on the Forums. Current version is 1.0.0, but is not feature-complete.

==== Contact ====
* Homepage: Currently in transition...
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sorivenul|My Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Email: 