{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthDakotaTeam/MeetingAgendas/002
<<BR>>Meeting Schedule: http://sdloco.profarius.com/content/irc-meeting-num002

== Agenda ==

* All votes were unanimous in this meeting.

=== Advertising ===

==== New Logo ====

The logo and colors for the new logo were approved by a unanimous vote.

==== Flyer ====

The flyer was not approved and will be worked on prior to the next meeting.
* Flyer will focus on positive rather than negative
* Ideas: <<BR>>["Introducing Ubuntu - a different approach to working with your computer" - sub heading] <<BR>>["Free 24hr support"] <<BR>>["I like the line about commercial-only support"] <<BR>>["Ubuntu - take back control of your PC" - intro to points]

=== Wiki ===

==== Roles Application ====

Phillip A. became the FAQ Editor by unanimous vote.

==== Events ====

It was decided that old events with no follow up content will be removed from the Wiki.

The method for adding to Events and Meetings was approved.

==== New Layout ====

The new layout for the Wiki and content was approved. However some changes will be made. 

Roles page is currently under redesign and should be completed by next meeting.

Phillip A. Will verify the 3-click rule is followed for important user content.

New Wiki FAQ editor was talked though the process of using Includes. See notes for details and explanations.

==== FAQ / KB ====

Ideas were shot out for the FAQ editor to handle.
* Rewrite current FAQ / KB items to be more intelligible
* Where to obtain support
* - #ubuntu-us-sd (irc from site), #uubuntu, forums, etc.
* " [ Create useful links on FAQ page. ] "
* KB for support - one-on-one scheduling time.

==== Treasury / Warehouse ====

It was agreed that their should be a separation between these two areas. Once the store is completed, positions will be appointed.

Cost for each Ubuntu badge was agreed upon. <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-MassachusettsTeam-Projects-AluminiumCaseBadges?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=ubcd.png | Sample of Ubuntu Badge ]]</nowiki>

=== Website ===

==== New Layout ====

The new layout was approved.
* <nowiki>[[ http:--phillipedison1891.tripod.com-problem.png | Bug Found ]]</nowiki>

==== Signup ====

The methodology for the signup in the events section was approved.

==== Shopping Cart ====

The cart has been taken offline until it can be rewritten and financial backend configured.

==== Access ====

The method of using Launchpad team membership to manage access was approved.

=== Goals ===

==== One-on-One Support ====

Phillip A. suggested a means to offer specialized support. A user will submit a request to the mailing list using the submission form on the website or a direct request to the list. A user will then offer to setup a time to mentor the user during installation of Ubuntu for their first time. It will be free for more to support the user. The goal is to ensure every user has at least one member to support only them for their installation.

<nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-SouthDakotaTeam-RoadMaps-2009#One-on-One%20Support | Goal Link ]]</nowiki>

==== Road Maps ====

Mirror hosting from DLeVasseur will no longer be an option. Still waiting on DSU for further information.

Perhaps DSU offering a private mirror can help us persuade other universities to do the same until we find one to host publicly.

==== Activity Levels ====

Ideas for activity:
* Refer a friend
* Flyer - when finalized
* SLUG meeting

== Notes ==

All IRC logs are held at http://sdloco.profarius.com/stats/logs/

Meeting lasted from [12-Jan-2009 19:09:32] until [12-Jan-2009 20:58:13]

----
SouthDakotaTeamPastEvents
