{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Who Are We ==

The South Dakota Local Community Team (SD LoCo) is a team of Ubuntu users. We all live or have lived in the state of South Dakota.

== Our Mission ==

The mission of the South Dakota LoCo is to provide support for South Dakotans using Ubuntu. This is achieved by building an active and vibrant community of South Dakotans giving and receiving support. 

== Why Join The Team ==

By joining the team you will get the following benefits:
* Localized Support
* Online Support
* Official Recognition
* Access To "Swag"
* Event Notifications
* Update Notifications
* Other Notifications

== Become a Member ==

Becoming a member of our team is now easier than ever. With focus on integration, we've taken a large part of the user action out of it.

''Note: only residents of the State of South Dakota are eligible to become members. You may be asked, as a condition of approval, to provide verification that you live in the State of South Dakota.''

To become a member of our team:
1. Create a <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~ubuntu-southdakota-+login | Launchpad ]]</nowiki> account.
2. Join our <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~ubuntu-southdakota | SD LoCo Team ]]</nowiki>.

When joining the team, be sure to sign up for mailing list notifications. This is a fairly low activity list. Once your application is approved, you will be able to post to the list as well.

Join the IRC channel on Freenode at #ubuntu-us-sd once in a while. You can also access this via the IRC link at our <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.profarius.com- | site ]]</nowiki>.

After you're accepted you will be able to:
* Post to the mailing list
* Sign into our website
* Access our private forums
* Edit our Wiki
* Purchase items from our store
* Call yourself a member of our team
* Expect the best support we can offer
* More and more to come

== Why Choose Ubuntu ==

Ubuntu was founded on the philosophy that software should be free of charge, open source, and community maintained. As a result, Ubuntu is and always will be completely free software. You'll never incur any costly licensing fees and can download, use and share Ubuntu with your friends, family, school or business for absolutely nothing. In fact, you are encouraged to do so.

A standard Ubuntu installation should complete in about 25 minutes. The easy-to-use graphical installer creates a system complete with everything you need to get up-and-running: a fully productive office suite, internet applications (browser, email, calendar), graphics software, music and video players, and games.

== Other Questions ==

Less frequently asked questions can be found in the <nowiki>[[ SouthDakotaTeam-KB | KB ]]</nowiki>.
