{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu - South Carolina Team ==

=== May 2008 OFFICIAL Meeting Announcement ===
May 31st (SATURDAY) - 12:00 Noon EST
FORMAL Meeting (REQUIRED Attendance)

=== Past Meetings (Logs, Agendas, Attendees) ===
'''Agenda, logs and attendee list of January 2008 Meeting:'''
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/24Jan08Agenda|24 January 2008 @ 8:00 P.M. EST]]</nowiki>

'''Agenda, logs and attendee list of February 2008 Meeting:'''
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/28Feb08Agenda|28 February 2008 @ 7:30 P.M. EST]]</nowiki>

'''Agenda, logs and attendee list of March 2008 Meeting:'''
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/27March08Agenda|27 March 2008 @ 7:30 P.M. EST]]</nowiki>

'''Agenda, logs and attendee list of April 2008 Meeting (Unofficial Meeting)'''
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/22April08Agenda|09 April 2008 @ 6:30 P.M. EST]]</nowiki>

'''Agenda, logs and attendee list of Mid-April 2008 Meeting (Unofficial Meeting)'''
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/22April08Agenda|22 April 2008 @ 6:30 P.M. EST]]</nowiki>

'''Agenda of April 2008 (Official Meeting):'''
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/30April08Agenda|30 April 2008 @ 7:30 P.M. EST]]</nowiki>

We support:
* Open source (wherever it may be);
* Community based support;
* Action for the community by the community;
* The lowered emission of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere; 
* And, of course, more soccer. Everywhere.

=== Many Thanks ===

Thank you to our team members for continuing to contribute to the team. Namely thank you Antonio Vertigo (avertigo) and Jesse Richardson (Flare183) for being our Webmasters!

=== Welcome ===

Welcome to the South Carolina, United States, Team's homepage. We aim to provide community support (within our own community and outward as needed) for Ubuntu Linux in its various flavours. We wish to promote and facilitate growth in the community through local distribution of CDs as well as simply raising awareness in the community of the great accomplishments this community has made in making a stable, long-lasting name for itself in the Operation System base.

This group is for anyone who might live in South Carolina, visiting South Carolina for a long business trip ( ;) ), or are simply staying here for a year to four for college (maybe even a five year college student...trust us, we understand).

We support both individuals, organizations (non-profit/educational) and corporations alike. We believe that Ubuntu will serve ALL entities, no matter their affiliation in the work, school or personal use environment, in many ways (not all the same, but all in the same GREAT way). We are a close-knit community with mile-wide ties (as far as yarn goes...) that will be able to assist you in every step of the way.

We encourage a user base in our community not only to help with raising awareness, promoting Ubuntu and just simply giving us a whirl; we also promise the active engagement of programming and development in any way each individual sees fit in his or her own way within the community.

Your destiny is yours; our destiny together is Ubuntu. United we stand for open source and community involvement in simply furthering an already great, growing community.

Cheers!

=== The Ubuntu SC Prototype Wiki ===

You can find the prototype of the wiki at this address: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/Prototype/Home|Prototype]]</nowiki>

=== Where Else Are We? ===

We can be found in the following places (either lurking about, minding our silent business, talking or partying it up in the middle of the night):

* Website :: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntusc.com/]]</nowiki>

* IRC :: #ubuntu-us-sc on irc.freenode.net

* Wiki :: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam]]</nowiki>

* Forum :: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-sc.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=311]]</nowiki>

* Mailing List :: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-sc]]</nowiki>

* Blog :: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntusc.com/ubuntu-blog]]</nowiki>

-----Design Changes VERY Soon-----

If you would like to e-mail the Ubuntu South Carolina Wiki Team (recluse2, CraigHuffstetler, <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/JesseRichardson|JesseRichardson]]</nowiki>) for suggestions, to join us in our efforts (volunteer and help!!!), comments or other creative constructive information please do feel free! Simply e-mail us at , and we will definitely appreciate your feedback.

----------------------------------

CategoryUbuntuTeams CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
