{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===
As our projects change, and as we accomplish more and more, we will use this page to keep every one up to date on the current status of what we are working on. Since the Team is still young, we are working on documentation, building a strong foundation, and Web presence for the team. Ongoing discussions are being held in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=311|Forum]]</nowiki> and in IRC as to the listed topics here, so please contribute your ideas, and if possible if you have the ability and the time, please contribute to these efforts.

Please bookmark this page and keep an eye on it as it will probably change frequently.

=== Wiki ===
The Wiki is currently being built and many pages need to be created. Please contribute your ideas for the team Wiki to this thread in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=741718|Forum]]</nowiki>

{*} Status: Complete. Content will always evolve.

=== Website ===
Please contribute your ideas, and we could use graphics for all projects! Please contribute ideas via the forums for construction.

{*} Graphics: Need completion.

Note: JCSteele has done an excellent job with getting the site updated and onto WordPress, to see a new era into 2009. Now onto Graphics. Here, here!

{*} Status: Complete. The website has been established. However, content will always evolve.

=== Blog ===
Needs discussion, content, and we need active bloggers to contribute content.

{*} Status: Ongoing. We always seek active bloggers.

=== Charter ===
Has been <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=688654|discussed]]</nowiki> and been <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/Charter|posted]]</nowiki>.

{*} Status: Completed in its current form. However, we are always up for new ideas!

=== Roadmap ===
Much discussion remains on this topic. We have the goal of becoming an official LoCo team, and when that has been established it will strongly influence our future, however, in order for this to happen we need to accomplish the things listed here
 
{*} Status: Ongoing. Have an idea for 2009? Now is the time!

=== Ubuntu SC Google Calendar ===
Thanks to Flare183 this has been established and is up and running. Keep an eye on it as we will update it with the dates of IRC meetings and future events. You can access it <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=mspe5r4hma3ngop61r5ei0f1c4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York|here]]</nowiki>

{*} Status: Complete

----
CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
