{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The following is a significantly modified version of a form posted on David Pitts's Web site.

<pre>
INSTALL FEST RELEASE FORM

By signing this release agreement between you and the group holding the install fest (members of the Ubuntu South Dakota Local Community Team, Linux User's Group, hereinafter referred to as Installers), you give up certain legal rights. Therefore, you should read the agreement carefully. If you have any questions about the legal effect of this agreement, you should consult an attorney and not any of the Installers. Please be aware that you may not participate in the install fest event unless you have signed this agreement. By signing this release agreement, you acknowledge the following:

1. That your signing this agreement is partial consideration for the services provided by Installers.
2. That Installers do not promise that the work done on your computer equipment will be successful. An Installer will help you attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment. However, because of possible defects in computer software or computer hardware, including improperly configured computer hardware, not every attempt is successful.
3. That the attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment has inherent dangers that no amount of care, caution, instruction, or expertise can eliminate.
4. That any attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment, especially including any attempt to partition or re-partition your computer's hard drive, may result in the loss of some or all of the data stored on that hard drive. That you are hereby advised that you should back up all important data before the attempt to install, configure or otherwise get the Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment.
5. That an install fest is an inherently chaotic event at which many computer components, peripherals and systems are present; therefore, you are responsible for the security of your property.
6. That you are expressly assuming the risks of the dangers set forth above.
7. That by signing this release agreement, you hereby forever release the Installers from any legal liability they might have arising from the attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the Linux operating system to run on your computer equipment. That this release includes, but is not limited to, any losses caused by the negligence of any Installer who attempts to install, configure or otherwise get the Linux operating system to work on your computer. 

By signing below, you agree that you understand the terms above:

Your:

signature: __________________________________________________

name: _______________________________________________________

month: ____________ day: __________ year: ________

Witness: signature: __________________________________________________

name: _______________________________________________________

month: ____________ day: __________ year: ________ </pre>
