{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''NOTE: THIS LOG HAS BEEN HAND-EDITED.  ERRORS MIGHT BE PREVALENT.'''

20:08 -!- Topic for #ubuntu-us-sc: Please visit our Wiki at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam
	  If you have a question ask it here, or at our Forum at http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=311
20:08 -!- Topic set by xq [] [Thu Sep 25 11:22:38 2008]
20:08 [Users #ubuntu-us-sc]
20:08 [@ChanServ     ] [ jcsteele ] [ myrtlebeachbums] [ xq    ]
20:08 [ ]K[^Omegadoom] [ locobot_3] [ recluse2       ] [ zic128]
20:08 [ IRSeekBot2   ] [ mrtsunam1] [ ubot3          ]
20:08 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-us-sc: Total of 11 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 10 normal]
20:08 -!- Channel #ubuntu-us-sc created Thu Nov 22 20:58:20 2007
20:08 -!- Home page for #ubuntu-us-sc: http://www.ubuntusc.com/

20:08 -!- Irssi: Join to #ubuntu-us-sc was synced in 4 secs

20:08 < myrtlebeachbums> That's okay. It's been a while since I've attended one of these myself. The one thing I
	wanted to bring up when people get here is the Jaunty release party.

20:08 < recluse2> Good, we havent really met up in quite a while

20:08 < myrtlebeachbums> I've proposed on in the Myrtle area for Handley's pub the Saturday after the Jaunty release.
	I know we have other discussions going regarding another party in the Greenville area.

20:08 < myrtlebeachbums> Multiple parties can't be bad.

20:09 < recluse2> I have been present for several meetings over the past few months and no one else showed up,
        but it is okay, family and others things come first

20:10 < myrtlebeachbums> *nod*

20:10 < myrtlebeachbums> Does anyone else have any ideas or plans for projects that you're aware of?

20:10  * jcsteele has arrived, everyone can relax now..iw ill all be ok

20:10 < myrtlebeachbums> :) Welcome

20:10 < recluse2> not really MBB, we kinda need to redroup

20:21 < myrtlebeachbums20:11 < jcsteele> craig here?

20:11 < recluse2> regroup[ that is

20:11 < recluse2> havent heard from him yet jcsteele

20:12 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: i have several (10+) systems that I would like to scrounge together and donate
        to the school system in Horry County or a deserving organization..ubuntu installed of course.

20:13 < myrtlebeachbums> Sounds reasonable. I take it you're in the area. I'd be happy to help.

20:13 < jcsteele> yeah, at the university...would welcome any help.  the machines are spread out (some in murrells
        inlet) and some in conway

20:14 < jcsteele> i need to find a home for them first, then do the work...not sure who I need to make contact
        with in order to do that.
20:14 < myrtlebeachbums> Okay. I'm in Conway, and can make room to work on them in the garage if necessary.

20:15 < myrtlebeachbums> I'm in the Elmhurst development not far from the high school.

20:15 < jcsteele> other than that, i would love to see some something done with the website....I was working on something
        earlier, than disappeared for awhile while I applied to graduate schools and went to interviews.

20:16 < myrtlebeachbums> Where are your priorities man. ;)

20:16 < jcsteele> i know, i know...i am a horrible advocate.

20:17 < myrtlebeachbums> I'll stay hands off on the website as I recognize my limitations. I'm sure there are people far
        more qualified than I to do it. As for systems and such, I've got no problem assisting on builds with those.

20:18 < jcsteele> i have full access to the website and ready to work on it - but I just have issues going in and making
        changes, or updating news, etc. since I have been absent

20:19 < jcsteele> and I think the website should be a collaborative effort - not just my vision of what it should be.

20:19 < myrtlebeachbums> So who else wants to be part of that?

20:20 -!- Flare183 [n=Flare183@unaffiliated/flare183] has joined #ubuntu-us-sc

20:20 < jcsteele> it was me and brian originally

20:21 < recluse2> you mean me jcsteele?

20:21 < jcsteele> i do :-)

20:21 < recluse2> Oh, My memory sucks

20:21 < recluse2> I am a willing volunteer

20:21 < myrtlebeachbums> With attendance at... what - 4 of us? - it might be a good idea to post something to
        the forum on that requesting recruits. Same with the system build project. If we can post it there and
        get feedback then it should give people an easy reference point to go from.

20:22 < recluse2> yes indeed

20:22 < jcsteele> it was June of 2008 that craig originally set things up I believe (assuming thunderbird doesn't lie)

20:22 < Flare183> :o

20:22 < Flare183> Yay!

20:22 < recluse2> I have access

20:22 < Flare183> We finally have people talking in here!

20:23 < myrtlebeachbums> We're trying. :)

20:23 < recluse2> but I thought that you and xq were on it, and I was busy with the wiki at the time I think

20:23 < jcsteele> not sure.

20:23 < jcsteele> nonetheless, nothing was done.

20:24 < recluse2> I seen a draft of the website a few months ago

20:24 < jcsteele> i take the blame

20:24 < myrtlebeachbums> Guys the more we work together and knock out some projects, the better recognition we can
        get. Doing a few things like that will help us be recognized and qualify for SWAG to hand out at our release
        parties and any other events we do. I think that should be a goal as we look towards Ubuntu 9.10.

20:24 < jcsteele> craig cut off ssh access to i think - so I can't go in and upload the php I wrote for the site at
        this time...will have to talk to him about it.

20:25 < recluse2> xq has had health issues over the past few months too

20:25 < jcsteele> ah, did not know that.

20:25 < recluse2> oh yeah, he had to have surgery and all kinds of stuff

20:25 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: agreed...even though I am not remaining in the area long, I still want to do what I can
        and help out as much as I can.

20:26 < Flare183> Oh yeah. Do you guys want to see my last conv with Craig and I? It might help out

20:27  * Flare183 says We have a new channel! #ubuntu-sc-beginnershelp

20:27 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: the other idea I had was to distribute free CDs to those who need them, or are bandwidth
        challenged - points of contact throughout the state would be nice.

20:27 < myrtlebeachbums> Thank you. As I understand it the SC Loco is predominantly students. That means we'll always have
        a lot of turnover. Zic128, Dan Handley, and myself are all locals.

20:27 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: so if a person living in greenville would like to have a CD, they can e-mail the local
contact and setup a meet or have it mailed to them.

20:28 < myrtlebeachbums> Agreed. I have no problem donating some CD's, and I'm sure that others in various parts of the
        state would do the same. Again - if we get enough recognition, eventually we start getting those handed to us.
        The old snowball effect.

20:28 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: yeah, students are going to be apart of it - I can think of at least 10+ people at the
        university who would participate in local events and whatnot.

20:29 < jcsteele> we use ubuntu a lot at the university

20:30 < jcsteele> I manage a 20+ computer lab that I converted to ubuntu 8.04 awhile ago.

20:30 < jcsteele> we also use it for some of our research servers.

20:30 < jcsteele> unfortunately our HPC clusters run Rock

20:30 < myrtlebeachbums> Glad to hear it!

20:30 < Flare183> That sounds great

20:31 < zic128> Nice, my uni was winders or ancient solaris

20:31 < Flare183> zic128: lol

20:31  * Flare183 uses FreeBSD on his server

20:31 < myrtlebeachbums> Oh no. Another lil' devil... ;)

20:32 < zic128> hehe

20:32 < myrtlebeachbums> I taught the professors in my Masters program about how to do things in Linux.

20:32 < Flare183> lol

20:33 < Flare183> Hey, if anyone need some free (Good) webspace, let me know

20:33 < jcsteele> Flare183: i use OpenBSD extensively in a lot of places ... so your not alone.

20:33 < Flare183> jcsteele: Oh ok

20:34 < myrtlebeachbums> Okay, so without getting off track. We're talking about points of contact for CD distribution, and
        we need multiple volunteers for that. We've got proposed Jaunty release parties in multiple locations. I'm the
        lead for the Myrtle area one. We need volunteer(s) for other locations. We've also got web work to be
        done, and system builds for donations.

20:35 < myrtlebeachbums> The release party thread is already in the forums. Can we get people to volunteer for the other
        things and those volunteers get them tracked in the forums for others to reference?

20:35 < myrtlebeachbums> jcsteele - Do you want to start the threads on the system builds and I'll help as much as I can?

20:35 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: I can.

20:36 < jcsteele> Flare183: how is the wiki coming along?

20:36 < myrtlebeachbums> Unless someone else wants to be the contact for the Myrtle area CD distribution, I can take that.

20:36 < recluse2> my company has arrived I will be back on in a while if you guys are still here

20:36 < myrtlebeachbums> TTYL

20:36 < Flare183> jcsteele: Pretty good

20:37 < Flare183> I have been monitoring EVERYTHING since xq/Craig has been away

20:37 < jcsteele> Flare183: can we put a "To Do List" up on it to keep track of things?  I know we have the projects page,
        but a more informal place to post messages to other members would be nice.

20:37 < Flare183> jcsteele: Sure

20:37 < Flare183> Hold on

20:38 < jcsteele> then we can start keeping track of things mentioned tonight, who is doing what, what resources we need, etc.

20:38 < myrtlebeachbums> We definitely need one place for everything. It seems like we've got a number of places for data to
        be found. Can be confusing.

20:38 < myrtlebeachbums> Good idea.

20:39 < myrtlebeachbums> Oh - I'm also on the UWN team, so I can try to get us some PR as we pull things off. ;)

20:41 < jcsteele> the domain, ubuntusc.com, also expires soon (april) ... need to make sure that gets renewed, and have
        someone take care of it if xq is unable to do so

20:43 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: i think another oppurtunity we have is to have members write up documents

20:43 < myrtlebeachbums> Okay. What do you have in mind?

20:44 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: like the ubuntu lab we converted - everything is managed by one central computer - I can
        reboot, shutdown, do updates, basically control everything from one computer...I also built a sort of "deep freeze"
        system where everytime a system is rebooted, upon booting back up it goes back to the way it was.

20:45 < jcsteele> so if someone writes 4,000 files to the Documents or Desktop directories, when you reboot, those files are gone.

20:45 < myrtlebeachbums> That's definitely something of interest that others can apply.

20:45 < jcsteele> or if someone mucks up gnome.

20:45 < jcsteele> yeah - so what I wanted to do was write the article, post it on my blog, then syndicate it somehow over to
        ubuntusc.com

20:46 < jcsteele> it gives ubuntusc good publicity, and puts us in a position as an "authority" or sorts on ubuntu
        in our area (assuming the articles, etc. are worthwhile and useful)

20:47 < myrtlebeachbums> Hmmm.... There's many outlets for info like that. Reddit, Linux Today, Digg, Slashdot, and of course UWN.

20:47 < jcsteele> as well as having the rest of the world say "oh look - one of the people from ubuntusc wrote a really nice article.."

20:47 < myrtlebeachbums> Good idea. If you're willing to do that, it's a great idea. We'd want to hear others chime in as well.

20:47 -!- zic128 [n=ihenry@cpe-098-122-061-083.sc.res.rr.com] has quit ["Leaving"]

20:48 < myrtlebeachbums> As in, let's not put the entire burden on you.

20:48 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: http://ubuntu-georgia.org/ has planet georgia, which I think is nice...similar idea.

20:48 < myrtlebeachbums> workswithu.com is also looking for a blogger to contribute up to 5 articles a month if anyone is interested.

20:49 -!- zic128 [n=ihenry@cpe-098-122-061-083.sc.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-sc

20:49 < myrtlebeachbums> Very nice. Nick's one of the UWN guy's that's been around a while.

20:49 < myrtlebeachbums> (UWN == Ubuntu Weekly News if anyone's wondering what I'm talking about)

20:49 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: problem with ubuntuG is that the software running their site is terrible (IMO)

20:49 < myrtlebeachbums> They do videos that they post too.

20:49 < myrtlebeachbums> Aren't you glad you're in the SC loco instead of GA then? :)

20:50 < jcsteele> 5 articles a month is a lot to take on

20:50 < jcsteele> else I would be very interested

20:50 < myrtlebeachbums> That's why I didn't throw my name in the ring for that.

20:51 < jcsteele> is it paid?

20:51 < jcsteele> paid might be another story...lol.

20:51 < myrtlebeachbums> I don't think so.

20:51  * Flare183 is back

20:52 < Flare183> Does anyone need a website hosted?

20:52 < jcsteele> finally...took you long enough ;-)

20:52 < Flare183> lol sorry

20:52 < jcsteele> Flare183: not here ... I gots me my openbsd hosting.

20:52 < Flare183> :p

20:52 < Flare183> ok

20:53 < jcsteele> anyone good with graphics?

20:54 < jcsteele> we do need a good graphics person for the website.

20:54 < jcsteele> i can write c, c++, php, x86 ASM, perl - but I have the artistic instincts of a monkey

20:57 < Flare183> lol

20:57 < Flare183> Well look at the wiki page now

20:57 < jcsteele> however, LOST is coming on in 3 minutes...so I might be "in and out" for an hour.

20:57 < myrtlebeachbums> Should include owner(s) for each item. ie: Jaunty release party - Myrtle area (Dave Bush aka myrtlebeachbums)

20:57 < zic128> hehe

20:58 < Flare183> you can create the page

20:58 < myrtlebeachbums> Is Lost on hulu.com?

20:58 < Flare183> lol myrtlebeachbums I think so

20:58 < jcsteele> it's at your local torrent site in about 6 hours for tonights episode :)

20:58 < Flare183> lmao

20:58 < Flare183> oops sorry

20:58 < Flare183> lol*

20:58 < zic128> thats what I was thinking =)

20:58 < myrtlebeachbums> I dumped cable for antenna and web streaming. We get 15 channels in HD in Conway with an antenna. :)

20:59 < Flare183> lol nice myrtlebeachbums

20:59 < zic128> Me too, MBB, I just got my antenna yesterday

20:59 < myrtlebeachbums> Hit me up at work tomorrow zic - I've got a bunch of streaming links for you.

20:59 < zic128> nice, will do

21:00 < myrtlebeachbums> Okay guys - who is going to take care of getting the todo on the wiki, and is someone going to compile minutes of this?

21:01 < myrtlebeachbums> I think if we can get that done and get names associated with tasks, we can start getting some things knocked out.

21:01 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: flare has it up already i believe.

21:01 < myrtlebeachbums> Awesome. Link on the web site?

21:01 < Flare183> I would, but I'm already working on metalinmotion.com

21:01  * Flare183 is the webmaster for his Robotics team

21:02 < myrtlebeachbums> VERY cool!

21:03 < Flare183> :)

21:03 < Flare183> Yeap

21:03 < myrtlebeachbums> I hope they make it easier for you than when I was supposed to take my robotics class. It was in '89 or '90 and
        everything had to be done in 8088 assembler. *SHUDDER*

21:04 < Flare183> lol

21:04 < Flare183> Its way different now

21:04 < Flare183> Look at our site

21:04 < Flare183> seriously

21:04 < myrtlebeachbums> Man I hope so! LOL

21:05 < myrtlebeachbums> Alright - sounds like we're done for tonight. I'll check the wiki later. Glad to see everybody here tonight!

21:05 < myrtlebeachbums> I'm primary on-call for work right now, and have been fielding calls while doing this. I can tell it's going to be one of THOSE nights.

21:05 < Flare183> lol

21:13 -!- zic128 [n=ihenry@cpe-098-122-061-083.sc.res.rr.com] has quit ["Leaving"]

21:17 < jcsteele> Flare183: can I start editing the wiki todo page?

21:17 < Flare183> sure

21:24 < myrtlebeachbums> Okay guys - dropping off. Nice to talk to you all tonight. Here's hoping we get the stuff done that we want to do. :)

21:24 < myrtlebeachbums> TTYL
