{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{
[19:37] <xarquid> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam
[19:37] <xarquid> Nice and simple
[19:38] <xarquid> Just little things like that can help make a big improvement for our Wiki
[19:38] *** You take channel operator privileges from yourself.
[19:38] <xarquid> And keep things simple :)
[19:38] *** ChanServ gives channel operator privileges to you.
[19:38] *** You set the channel topic to "Meeting is now in Session |  http://www.ubuntusc.com/ | Join me in welcoming TelnetManta to Team SC! | Keep in mind: ONE Meeting every SIX Months MUST be attended to be considered an "ACTIVE" member. Please see the forums for details. | (Link on UbuntuSC.com For Forums/Mailing List/Etc.).".
[19:38] <Flare183> there we go
[19:38] <recluse2> I'll have to have a look at some other wiki's, maybe I can throw in an idea or two
[19:38] <xarquid> Maybe start Subteams -- such as a Ubuntu-SC Events Team, Ubuntu-SC Artwork Team etc. -- but that will all come with time once there are volunteers.
[19:38] <xarquid> Yep
[19:39] <xarquid> Even just throwing in the names of Wikis that you like
[19:39] <Flare183> wow that wiki is cool
[19:39] <xarquid> So we can compile a list of wants/needed features and looks
[19:39] *** You take channel operator privileges from yourself.
[19:39] <xarquid> That way it will look like our members want it to look! :)
[19:39] <xarquid> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam
[19:39] <xarquid> Another nice Wiki page (imo)
[19:39] <xarquid> So once we start getting volunteers for various efforts, we will start making Teams
[19:40] <xarquid> And each Team will have a team leader etc.
[19:40] <xarquid> (All of this can go in the charter -- for example)
[19:40] <xarquid> And then filter into the Wiki and onto the web site
[19:40] <xarquid> It just keeps things simple and voluntary
[19:40] <xarquid> And members engaged, active and doing what they want to do.
[19:41] <Flare183> ok
[19:41] <xarquid> Everything is always voluntary and no one ever has to do anything they do not want to do of course. The only requirement is meeting attendance once every 6 months at the moment.
[19:41] * Flare183 says I got kicked off for a second sorry
[19:41] <xarquid> So... :) Pretty easy on our members if you ask me. I just want people to have fun!
[19:41] <Flare183> hehe
[19:42] <xarquid> And I want to "rally the base" if you will in South Carolina. And there is no way to do that without our own members coming first, heading up the efforts/teams they want to head up and having fun doing it.
[19:42] <xarquid> For example, if we have good writers -- then we can have those on a Marketing/P.R. team and get them to send in articles to local newspapers in the hopes of getting published. Or local online blogs :)
[19:42] <xarquid> Just all ideas and examples.
[19:42] <recluse2> agreed
[19:43] <Flare183> ok
[19:43] <TelnetManta> Do we have any other team members who are involved in projects related to Ubuntu or are we mostly home users?
[19:43] <xarquid> But these are the hopes and aspirations for the upcoming months. The creation of teams with leaders to head up the efforts...
[19:43] <recluse2> You are full of great Ideas!
[19:43] <xarquid> And it will all be the in Charter :)
[19:43] <Flare183> yeah i agree to that
[19:43] <TelnetManta> I agree with Flare.
[19:43] <xarquid> I just don't want to make the Charter and throw it out there until I get member input (I'm not a dictator!)
[19:43] <xarquid> I'm all for the members and want what they want
[19:43] <Flare183> haha
[19:44] <Flare183> ok gotcha
[19:44] <Flare183> i with xarquid
[19:44] <xarquid> Telnet: Mostly home users it seems
[19:44] <xarquid> Telnet: But you are a user in the corporate/educational environment with good insight on this
[19:44] <Flare183> TelnetManta: Yeah I'm a home user
[19:44] <xarquid> Telnet: In this case, I would hope Ubuntu-SC would be able to help you if the need arose and you requested assistance for Anderson County.
[19:45] <xarquid> Rossimo (Rossim1) heads up the LUG at Clemson University.
[19:45] <Flare183> Yeah and I am in the Upstate Area (Oconee County)
[19:45] <recluse2> Pickens here
[19:45] <xarquid> So we're looking to do a lot of networking within the S.C. community as a whole as much as possible in the upcoming months. Specially, it appears, the Upstate Area (because I know this is an active area!).
[19:46] <xarquid> Yep, all Upstate Area who are attending. :)
[19:46] <TelnetManta> We need to attract/invite more users around the state somehow.
[19:46] <Flare183> wow
[19:46] <xarquid> Another popular area will be college towns, I am sure, as we move on. LUGs will be a great asset for us to network with.
[19:46] <recluse2> Well I have lived in Greenville, Camden, and Pickens along with 2 other states
[19:47] <TelnetManta> Obviously not everyone gets on IRC. So the wikis/forums should help attract them but we need some other methods to get people to try Ubuntu first.
[19:47] <recluse2> You would think that we would have a bunch from columbia in here
[19:47] <Flare183> yeah TelnetManta is right
[19:47] <xarquid> Yep, Telnet. We will become more attractive as we pick up steam with more team efforts and things start to get done (through volunteer coordination) and re-design of the Wiki etc.
[19:47] <xarquid> Also through perhaps events on campuses.
[19:47] <xarquid> It's all about name recognition and also just getting the word out so people know we exist.
[19:48] <xarquid> recluse: I would think. I'm going to send a few college friends or professors I know there some signage for us with our URLs, once I am comfortable with all of the page designs and messaging...for them to post on campus.
[19:48] <recluse2> good idea
[19:49] <xarquid> recluse: I also know the editor of USC Upstate's Carolinian (student newspaper) and an associate editor at the student newspaper at USC in Columbia. I am sure they would run small advertisements for us for either free or very small costs.
[19:49] <Flare183> I am going to see if I get my high School (Seneca High School) to do so too.
[19:49] <xarquid> ANd if they won't run them in print, I still host both of the student publications web sites ... so I could just offer a deal for running an online banner ad or something. It's all about P.R.
[19:50] <xarquid> But I want to make sure we have the proper messaging, branding and design before we go to promote on a larger scale
[19:50] <xarquid> Great Flare
[19:50] <TelnetManta> Im hoping to get some high school student interested with one of my projects, to get a Ubuntu lab in each of our three high schools.
[19:50] <xarquid> That will help
[19:50] <TelnetManta> *students
[19:50] <xarquid> Talk to your school newspaper or even put up a flier or two in a central location (but make sure to ask first)
[19:50] <xarquid> Yep, Telnet. Maybe we could have a link on the Portal page?
[19:51] <etank> xarquid: hey man
[19:51] <etank> pm?
[19:51] <Flare183> TelnetManta: i am willing to help I am a high school student so I love to have a lab with Edubuntu on the computers
[19:51] <TelnetManta> when we get it going I'll take some pics of kids using the lab etc
[19:51] <xarquid> I'm working on some graphics (quite a few logo designs and other things) for us to select/use (voting wise) which I will post on the forum in the next week or so.
[19:51] <xarquid> Also some possible other designs.
[19:51] <TelnetManta> I already have one teacher drooling to get his lab :)
[19:51] <xarquid> Telnet: That's great!
[19:52] <xarquid> So all of this is good
[19:52] <recluse2> high schools are a great place to promote ubuntu
[19:52] <xarquid> I would really just love ideas and volunteerism or just really any ideas (at all, no matter how minor you think the are -- they are major to me, trust me) on the forums
[19:52] <xarquid> They always do spark conversation
[19:52] <TelnetManta> Not to talk all about my projects... but, Im also working to convert around 1000 workstations to Edubuntu thin clients in our elementary schools.
[19:52] <xarquid> And specially centering around the Charter
[19:52] <xarquid> And centering around maybe "What 5 Teams could we use?"
[19:53] <Flare183> recluse2: yeah but I some on my friends are like racists against Ubuntu
[19:53] <xarquid> Such as PR Team, Design Team, Idea Pool Team, etc. etc. Then maybe once we get a huge idea list together we can choose from it in a meeting :)
[19:53] <Flare183> xarquid: awesome idea
[19:54] <xarquid> That's why I think the forums are great for in-between meeting ideas. So we can use those ideas and then incorporate them into the meetings for voting purposes or discussion in real time.
[19:54] <recluse2> yes the forums are great
[19:54] <Flare183> yeap
[19:54] <xarquid> So that's mainly about it
[19:54] <xarquid> Idea generation +++++
[19:55] <Flare183> haha
[19:55] <xarquid> Teams +++++ but, what teams?
[19:55] <xarquid> Charter +++++++
[19:55] <xarquid> :-)
[19:55] <TelnetManta> membership drive +++++++
[19:55] <xarquid> How are your projects going, Flare? Anything we can do to assist?
[19:55] <xarquid> Yep, Telnet! We will start driving members as much as possible.
[19:55] <Flare183> xarquid: yeah some
[19:55] <xarquid> But, as I keep saying -- we really are trying to encourage active members.
[19:55] <xarquid> Either on the forums, on IRC (or both).
[19:55] <Flare183> xarquid: if someone would goto http://launchpad.net
[19:56] <Flare183> xarquid: yeah i understand
[19:56] <xarquid> People joining on launchpad and then having no contact with anyone on the team what so ever for 3 - 6 months are going to get deactivated
[19:56] <Flare183> xarquid: we could like promote it in the programming
[19:56] <xarquid> I don't like the number inflation either
[19:56] <Flare183> yeah
[19:56] <xarquid> So hopefully people will join that really want to help
[19:56] <xarquid> I think the Charter might help with that
[19:56] <Flare183> hope so
[19:56] <xarquid> I will get the Launchpad main page updated to correspond with that rule
[19:56] <Flare183> ok great
[19:56] <xarquid> Sorry to interrupt Flare
[19:57] <Flare183> no problem
[19:57] <xarquid> We'll focus the next month on those four things...
[19:57] * Flare183 just wishes we had more members that knew a few things about programming
[19:58] <recluse2> sorry flare, I dont know any coders
[19:58] <Flare183> owww
[19:58] <Flare183> it's alright
[19:58] <recluse2> I wish I could code!
[19:58] <Flare183> yeah i understand
[19:58] --> Rossimo has joined this channel (n=Administ@host-69-59-107-67.nctv.com).
[19:59] <Flare183> hold up you don't really have to know anything about programming
[20:00] <Flare183> the only thing that I'm doing is take the gtk libraries and replacing them with KDE Libraries
[20:00] <Flare183> for KDEFox anyway
[20:00] <Flare183> ok?
[20:00] <TelnetManta> ok
[20:01] <Flare183> great
[20:01] <Flare183> TelnetManta: so do you want to help?
[20:01] <recluse2> I really dont understand it all. I need to learn alot more about how linux works
[20:02] <TelnetManta> if I ran KDE I would, Flare.
[20:02] <recluse2> yeah, I dont like KDE
[20:02] <Flare183> you don't really have to use kde all you have to work with is bzr
[20:02] <TelnetManta> I was just agreeing with you.
[20:02] <Flare183> TelnetManta: who?
[20:03] <TelnetManta> lol, you.
[20:03] <Flare183> TelnetManta: oh ok
[20:03] <TelnetManta> is the meeting over?
[20:03] <Flare183> xarquid: is it?
[20:04] <xarquid> Yep, that's pretty much it
[20:04] <xarquid> We'll post a log and announce another one for around this time at the end of the month
[20:04] <TelnetManta> woohoo! I made my first meeting!!
[20:05] <xarquid> And an unofficial meeting will take place soon in the middle of March, I believe that will be announced ASAP (they are fun MeetUp meetings on here, basically)
[20:05] <TelnetManta> now to get another new member, I dont like being the "new guy"
[20:05] <xarquid> Let's just start brainstorming about the 4 major +++++++'s :)
[20:05] <recluse2> I will follow up on the forum. I have an errand that I MUST Take care of Will talk to you all again soon!
[20:05] <xarquid> I'll edit your newsflash on the site, Manta
[20:05] [CTCP] Received Version request from gammamute_ to channel #ubuntu.
[20:05] <xarquid> And put in your quote from above, lol
[20:05] <xarquid> We did get another new member!
[20:06] <xarquid> I believe yesterday! Now we just need to get 'em on IRC.
[20:06] <etank> heh
[20:06] <xarquid> And it was good to see you, recluse. I enjoy your posts and all of your replies.
[20:06] <etank> my team is in a state of losing members
[20:06] <recluse2> I'll be back
[20:07] <TelnetManta> me too, bbiab
[20:07] <TelnetManta> kids....
[20:08] <Flare183> xarquid: you want me to copy the meeting to a log and paste it to the wiki?}}}
