{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Overview ===
Team South Carolina is a new team and is growing and growing. The team was founded by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CraigHuffstetler|xarquid]]</nowiki> in late 2007 and has grown steadily since. We have big plans for the future, and to accomplish those goals, we must do it in small steps. In the short time we have been active we have made progress, and plan to keep growing to become a very tight knit group that welcomes others in the state to join in and help us grow and to spread Ubuntu all over the state!

=== Accomplishments ===
 {*} We have 25 members, of which 20 are active and 5 inactive as of 7-1-08

 {*} Established an active Forum

 {*} Established an active IRC Channel

 {*} Established a Website

 {*} Established a Wiki

 {*} Established a Blog

 {*} Established a Launchpad page for the team

 {*} Established a member charter

 {*} Established a basic informal team structure including sub-teams

 {*} Established an active mail list for the whole team and mail lists for the sub-teams

 {*} Have made contact and will support other Linux user groups within the state.

=== Join Us ===
Would you like to join our team and be a part of an active movement with goals, direction, and a vision to help others in the state of South Carolina? Would you like to learn something new and exciting, and interact with others close to home? If so, <nowiki>[[SouthCarolinaTeam/MembersList|join the team]]</nowiki>, participate with your ideas, talents, and a little spare time.
----
CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
