{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Next Official Meeting ===

The next official meeting will be on Wednesday, March 25th at 8:00PM EST in #ubuntu-us-sc.

=== Log ===
<pre>
19:34 < xq> ------------Meeting Begin 25 February 2009----------
19:34 < xq> Hello everyone!
19:34 < myrtlebeachbums> Greetings
19:34 < neo644> Hi
19:34 ··· (mode!#ubuntu-us-sc) (ChanServ  = +o xq)
19:34 ··· (topic · xq) xq has changed the topic to: Meeting in progress. Join
          on in!
19:35 ··· (mode!#ubuntu-us-sc) (xq  = -o xq)
19:35 < myrtlebeachbums> Looks like first order of business is the Jaunty
                         release party.
19:35 < xq> A lot of that chatter has already taken place on the forums, but we
            need to coordinate locally and then somehow wrap it all together (I
            was thinking virtually).
19:35 < funwlinux> xq: haha...thanks
19:36 < myrtlebeachbums> I see April 23rd listed as the anticipated release
                         date.
19:36 < neo644> xq: I have a secondlife server, we can do it there
19:37 < myrtlebeachbums> I'd like to propose that we have the parties on either
                         Friday the 24th or Saturday the 25th at a location
                         that each location can agree on.
19:37 < xq> The major cities it looks like for us is Greenville (Greenville,
            Spartanburg, Anderson area), Myrtle Beach area, Charleston area and
            Columbia
19:37 < myrtlebeachbums> I've proposed Handley's Pub for the Myrtle Beach area
                         party.
19:38 < xq> http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1030879
19:38 < xq> That's the link to the forum topic if you want a refresher
19:39 < jcsteele> +1 for Myrtle Beach ;)
19:39 < xq> neo644: We were thinking IRC & Twitter using a hashtag. We can get
            to that in a minute for the virtual part. Let's see what we can do
            for local parties first :)
19:39 < myrtlebeachbums> So does anyone have a preference of Friday over
                         Saturday? Yeah, I know we're talking two months from
                         now.
19:40 < jcsteele> i think the time/etc. should just be left into the hands of
                  the organizer - if greenville can't do it until sunday, i
                  think that's acceptable.  As for the MB party, either or.
19:40 < xq> Well, since your for MB. What do you want? :)
19:40 < xq> I agree
19:40 < neo644> Saturday would usually be more convenient for everyone
19:41 < myrtlebeachbums> Saturday works for me.
19:41 < xq> It may not be as in sync, but still the virtual element will still
            give everyone a chance to communicate. Everyone is still going to
            be loading it up :)
19:41 < xq> Saturday sounds great
19:41 < myrtlebeachbums> JC and anyone else, pencil in Saturday April 25th at
                         Handley's Pub in the Carolina Forest area.
19:41 < xq> I will tell you from what I know people will have problems
            downloading it 24 hours in
19:41 < xq> Or at least that's how it usually goes
19:42 < xq> Well 12 - 24 hours ;)
19:42 < xq> And it will get released around midnight on the 23rd
19:42 < jcsteele> maybe we can get Flare to add that to the GCal
19:42 < funwlinux> the dist-upgrade is usually available a day or so in advance
19:42 < xq> Aye, to start the packages
19:42 < myrtlebeachbums> I'd think the torrent of the iso would be the fastest
                         way to get it on release day.
19:43 < jcsteele> we can figure it out.
19:43 < xq> <Flare action item for GCal>
19:44 < xq> We can throw these on the site too
19:44 < myrtlebeachbums> So never having been to a release party, what do we
                         want to do? I'm assuming this is an excuse to get
                         together, BS, and hand out copies to anyone that asks.
19:44 < xq> I'd like to make these known to others who may want to attend as
            well, not limited to just our members
19:44 < xq> I won't list locations
19:44 < xq> They will need to contact the coordinator
19:44 < xq> (I don't like party crashes) ;)
19:45 < jcsteele> i think that would bring us into topic #2 - we can invite the
                  LUGs or campus community to the parties
19:45 < xq> So, do you agree? We can list them publically perhaps on the web
            site with the locale and the coordinator?
19:45 < xq> Make it search engine optimized and saying it's a local release
            party?
19:45 < myrtlebeachbums> Yeah, I'd be okay with that. The more the merrier.
                         Whatever gets people involved.
19:45 < xq> Yep! Grander in size.
19:45 < jcsteele> sounds good to me.
19:46 < xq> This goes along with #4 as well
19:46 < xq> If you know people (and leaders) start to take down names
19:46 < xq> And e-mails, etc.
19:46 < myrtlebeachbums> If you're posting that, list Myrtle's as starting at
                         7:30 PM.
19:46 < xq> I'd like to start building a database
19:46 < myrtlebeachbums> Sounds good.
19:46 < xq> So we can have contacts throughout the Upstate
19:46 < xq> For things like this. It will help a lot in the future for events,
            marketing, and even planning...
19:47 < jcsteele> myrtlebeachbums: beachside lug is dead right?
19:47 < xq> If we want to coordinate our efforts like a grassroots campaign, we
******* must* do this
19:47 < myrtlebeachbums> Never heard of it, so maybe. :)
19:48 < xq> You know Scott!
19:49 < myrtlebeachbums> I do? Let me look at his page.
19:49 < xq> Wild guess.
19:49 < jcsteele> heh...i think it's been dead for a few years now.
19:50 < xq> Maybe we could revive interest
19:50 < myrtlebeachbums> Hmmm... Doesn't ring a bell, but I do suck at names. :)
19:51 < xq> Okay, well. I'll start a Wiki page.
19:51 < xq> By the way guys not only on the topic of a database of other people
            "of interest"
19:51 < xq> But if you haven't updated your own information in our member Wiki
            please do so
19:51 < xq> This just helps us keep track
19:52 < xq> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/MembersList
19:52 < xq> (sorry to steer off topic)
19:52 < myrtlebeachbums> Whatever we do for this we should get at least a pic
                         or something. The more we can document, the better for
                         getting the word out / pleasing the LoCo council / etc.
19:52 < neo644> Oh, i have one question about that
19:52 < xq> neo, I sent you a memo
19:52 < xq> It's fine if you don't use your name
19:52 < xq> You can use your nickname
19:52 < neo644> ok
19:52 < xq> or first initial or whatever :)
19:53 < xq> Type /msg MemoServ READ 1
19:53 < xq> Probably my Memo hehe
19:53 < neo644> does freenode have a MemoServ?
19:53 < xq> yep
19:53 < xq> All services
19:53 < xq> OperServ too ;)
19:54 < neo644> Interesting
19:54 < xq> I think they use modified standard services packages
19:54 < myrtlebeachbums> Guys - I've got to jump off and start working @ 9, but
                         I want to propose one thing before that damn work
                         thing takes me away - should we have one offline
                         social gathering a month?
19:54 < xq> I would like to start doing that if people's time permits and
            enough people can join in
19:54 < myrtlebeachbums> *nod* Agreed.
19:54 < xq> Each month a week before a gathering for a specified location we
            can get confirmed attendees
19:54 < xq> And I want to make sure they are confirmed
19:55 < xq> With phone numbers and everything
19:55 < xq> Or maybe 3 days in advance reconfirm
19:55 < xq> I do not want people showing up alone ;)
19:55 < myrtlebeachbums> If we start getting together and seeing each other I
                         think it'll help get us to do more togehter.
19:55 < xq> It will
19:55 < xq> Maybe even once a year try to plan an event where we ALL get
            together
19:55 < xq> At a central S.C. location
19:55 < xq> Perhaps for a day of activities
19:55 < xq> Like at Six Flags over G.A.
19:55 < jcsteele> sounds good...i forgot till you sent out the email-maybe we
                  should send an email to the list a day in advance as well
19:55 < xq> (well that's not S.C.)
19:55 < myrtlebeachbums> Okay - propose what week of the month and LMK. Gotta
                         run. I'll be kinda here, but mostly AFK.
19:55 < xq> but you get the point
19:57 < xq> The last topic was amending the charter, but if we get attendance like
            this we won't have to
19:57 < xq> And members that are active will be at the meetings
19:57 < xq> I kind of re-gathered my thoughts that there shouldn't be exceptions,
            but still I'll ask
19:57 < xq> (This was #3)
19:58 < jcsteele> maybe forward it to a future meeting
19:58 < jcsteele> see how things go
19:58 < xq> will do, this one went quite well
19:58 < xq> The worry was "IRC"
19:58 < xq> Hopefully it's just a word spreading thing
19:58 < xq> The forums need to be more active...
19:59 < jcsteele> indeed
19:59 < xq> Now as per the tabled part earlier about the "virtual part" of the
            release party
19:59 < xq> Since we can't all be together in S.C.
19:59 < xq> Since we're spread out
19:59 < xq> Has everyone used Twitter?
19:59 < xq> One method of this is IRC
19:59 < xq> Another is Twitter hashtags
19:59 < neo644> Not me
19:59 < xq> It's effective at this sort of thing ;)
20:00 < funwlinux> twitter hashtags?
20:00 < xq> http://hashtags.org/
20:00 < xq> That gives you a lot of examples
20:00 < xq> They show up in search so you can monitor the hashtag in real time,
            like a liveblog
20:00 < xq> But as you know with Twitter, you can do it from anywhere -- you mobile
            phone, your Blackberry (easier), iPhone, or even a WiFi connected
            computer
20:01 < xq> We could basically have a virtual release party connected through
            Twitter and IRC
20:01 < xq> http://hashtags.org/tag/lost
20:01 < xq> For example Lost
20:01 < xq> People watching it right now
20:01 < jcsteele> which is on right now ;)
20:01 < xq> Yes
20:01 < xq> And they will Tweet during it
20:01 < xq> About what is going on
20:02 < xq> http://search.twitter.com/search?q=%23Lost
20:02 < xq> There is up-to-the-second information on #lost
20:02 < xq> Now for our event we could use the hashtag #ursc1
20:03 < xq> Or #urp1
20:03 < xq> ubuntu release party 1 :)
20:03 < xq> And the same concept would apply
20:03 < xq> Do you guys follow? All you need is a Twitter account ;)
20:03 < jcsteele> sounds good
20:04 < xq> Sorry, some people Twitter some don't.
20:04 < xq> If you do it's pretty easy to follow and get into.
20:04 < xq> Earlier I said: Make a Twitter account, it's the new black.
20:04 < funwlinux> cool
20:04 < xq> You would pick up on this really quickly.
20:04 < xq> http://search.twitter.com/search?q=%23Lost
20:04 < xq> But there's what's happening in Lost right now, and people are talking
            live about it.
20:05 < xq> People do the same with everything now, from events to Battlestar
            Gallatica.
20:05 < xq> Mac World almost crashed the Twitter servers (again) this year.
20:05 < xq> So we would just be using the same concept for our event to tie it all
            together for S.C.'s party.
20:05 ··· (signoff!#ubuntu-us-sc) (neo644 =
          n=runemast@adsl-177-109-111.gsp.bellsouth.net (Remote closed the
          connection)
20:06 ··· (join!#ubuntu-us-sc) (neo644 =
          n=runemast@adsl-177-109-111.gsp.bellsouth.net)
20:06 < neo644> sorry xchat was lagging badly
20:07 < neo644> Did I miss something important?
20:07 < funwlinux> so we place #ursc1 before each twitter message?
20:07 < xq> It's okay. So if you don't have a twitter.com account you can make one
            :)
20:07 < xq> Yep, funwlinux , during the event.
20:07 < xq> I'll make a webpage to explain it all
20:07 < xq> As time draws closer
20:07 < xq> It will be easy
20:07 < jcsteele> neo644: we had a drawing for 900 bucks, but you werent here to
                  claim it :(
20:07 < xq> But for now: just make a twitter.com account, connect with friends and
            use it
20:08 < xq> Later on, as time draws closer, there will be a page that explains it
            all
20:08 < xq> But I guarantee by that time if you use Twitter you will understand
            everything ;)
20:10 ··· (signoff!#ubuntu-us-sc) (justtech =
          n=fn-javac@adsl-074-181-093-011.sip.gsp.bellsouth.net ("Java user signed
          off")
20:10 < xq> Okay, I think we're all done :)
20:10 < funwlinux> SELF :)
20:10 < xq> Just a lot of content to write and plan things
20:10 < xq> And you guys can make Twitter accounts
20:11 < xq> Do you guys have anything you want to add or have questions about?
20:11 < funwlinux> I just wanted to be sure that everyone is aware of the SouthEast
                   LinuxFest coming to Clemson on June 13th
20:11 < xq> <<<< Flare183 should add that to our calendar >>>>>
20:11 < xq> ;p
20:11 < Flare183> ok
20:11 < xq> hehe
20:11 < funwlinux> we will have a registration page up on the site next week. We
                   just picked up Google as a sponsor today.
20:11 < xq> Thanks! <3
20:12 < Flare183> np
20:12 < xq> nice
20:12 < xq> that's major
20:12 < neo644> and for anything on meeting on a secondlife server, go to
                opensimulator.org
20:12 < funwlinux> www.southeastlinuxfest.org is the site. If anyone would like the
                   intro letter to send to your lug mailing list, please contact me
                   at freelinuxpc@gmail.com
20:13 < xq> Was that the guy from Fringe?
20:13 < xq> (sorry)
20:13 < Flare183> uh oh
20:13 < xq> thanks Kevin
20:14 < Flare183> xq: Can you help me install google apps go my server/domain?
20:14 < funwlinux> we have some great speakers. if anyone would like to present on
                   a particular topic or host a newbie forum at SELF, please let me
                   know. We have several projects that we need volunteers for.
20:14 < Flare183> lol The calendar is gone
20:14 < Flare183> :(
20:14 < jcsteele> funwlinux: i am interesting in presenting
20:14 < xq> Flare183: sure, you have access to the DNS/cname records?
20:14 < Flare183> xq: Yeap
20:14 < jcsteele> funwlinux: just want me to submit the abstract to the addy on the
                  site?
20:15 < funwlinux> jcsteele: sounds good. please send the details to me via e-mail
20:15 < funwlinux> jcsteele: that would be great
20:15 < xq> http://www.google.com/a/cpanel/domain/new
20:15 < Flare183> alright
20:15 < Flare183> alright
20:15 < xq> that will start you off
20:15 < Flare183> xq: This domain has already been registered with Google Apps.
                  Please contact your domain administrator for instructions on
                  using Google Apps with this domain.
20:16 < Flare183> ???
20:16 < xq> It gives you instructions, but let me know when you have questions
20:16 < jcsteele> funwlinux: will do - we are doing an opensource study at Coastal
                  Carolina University and would love to presents are results - I
                  will talk to my research advisor about it tomarrow.
20:16 < Flare183> I did have it on there but now its not because of the transfer
20:16 < xq> http://www.google.com/apps/intl/en/business/index.html
20:16 < xq> Login
20:16 < funwlinux> jcsteele: that would be excellent.
20:16 < xq> (Returning user, sign in here)
20:16 < xq> Using your flare183@flare183.org e-mail
20:17 < xq> Under there before signing in
20:17 < Flare183> sweet
20:17 < xq> There is a drop-down
20:17 < xq> Choose "Manage this domain"
20:17 < xq> Or if you already signed in
20:17 < xq> Choose Manage this domain...from...somewhere ;p
20:18 < Flare183> I've got the "Manage your domain" up right now
20:18 < xq> good
20:18 ··· (join!#ubuntu-us-sc) (FlareFlare = n=Flare183@botters/flare183)
20:18 < neo644> Does anyone have a good server that we could host a game server to
                have a virtual release party on? My best computer is a laptop, and
                I dont think it can handle too many people.
20:18 ··· (signoff!#ubuntu-us-sc) (Flare183 = n=Flare183@botters/flare183 (Nick
          collision from services.)
20:19 ··· FlareFlare is now known as Flare183
20:19 < Flare183> back
20:19 < xq> Do they all say inactive now?
20:19 < jcsteele> we should play urbanterror..heh
20:19 < xq> Instead of Active by the services? Or what do you see?
</pre>
