{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Mostly for internal communication, this page describes what UbuntuSC members are currently working on, what resources they need, and a general means of determining what is happening on a daily basis.  All current members are welcome to edit this page, as keeping an open line of communication is the first step in creating a fantastic community.

==== Computer Distribution in Horry/Georgetown County ====
'''Who:''' jcsteele, myrtlebeachbums <<BR>>
'''URL:''' n/a <<BR>>
'''Details:''' Several computer systems are being slated for use in the local school systems, or worthwhile organizations.  These systems are currently in a non-functioning state, range in hardware specifications, and are in need of attention to get them functioning properly.  Ubuntu will be pre-installed, setup, and verified to be functioning upon delivery to their final destination(s).
Resources Needed: Need contact information for local school system(s) to start the donation procedure.  Also might be in need of hardware if some of the machines are in need of replacement parts that are currently not available, however this will come at a later point in time. <<BR>>

NOTE from xq: <<BR>>
1) Please setup a separate wiki page, based on this project, that shows information on it to rev up interest. Perhaps even a donation option. If donations are accepted please ensure they are donated completely to the cause of the effort (I.E. to the hardware) and that it sees the light of day and donation; otherwise, do not do it. I can help with this and marketing efforts if you decide to do this.<<BR>>
2) On the other page, start setting up separate items that are needed. What hardware is needed per P.C. or for the project at large? Can this be donated or is it needed new? If so, let us all know. We may be able to help donate it. This would be a good page to give us to opportunity to work together and get you what you need.

==== Website Redesign / Updating ====
'''Who:''' jcsteele, xq, volunteers <<BR>>
'''URL:''' http://www.ubuntusc.com <<BR>>
'''Details:''' The current website is need of a vast amount of changes to better suit our groups needs.  This is an on-going process, however the initial design and coding of a new website needs to be done before further work can be finished.  '''We are in need of volunteers, particularly those with php experience, as well as a graphic designer to help make the website more visually appealing''' <<BR>>

Website will be changed to Drupal soon and blogs will be managed via WordPress with multiple authors. We need volunteers!<<BR>>

Craig will renew ubuntusc.com domain (as usual) on February 1st, 2009.<<BR>>

==== Ubuntu CD/DVD Distribution Project ====
'''Who:''' all members <<BR>>
'''URL:''' n/a <<BR>>
'''Details:''' The grand idea of this project is to enable anyone in the State of South Carolina to obtain a CD/DVD containing Ubuntu (or appropriate derivative project) from a member of UbuntuSC for free.  This service is essential to those individuals who either a) do not have the capability to download a large ISO file b) do not have the knowledge to download and create their own CD/DVD or c) would like to obtain a CD/DVD faster than the 6-8 week waiting period incurred from using the ShipIT service sponsored by Ubuntu/Canonical.'''Any current member who is willing to be a point of contact for a specific geographic region should contact jcsteele for additional instructions.''' <<BR>>

==== Jaunty Release Party Planning ====
'''Who:''' all members <<BR>>
'''URL:''' n/a <<BR>>
'''Details:''' Plans are being made to host multiple parties across the State of South Carolina to announce the availability of Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope).  Currently The following members have stepped and volunteered to coordinate a release party in their area.  If you would like to coordinate a party in your area, please add the appropriate information below. <<BR>>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Area'''
| '''Coordinator'''
|-
| Horry County (Myrtle Beach)
| myrtlebeachbums
|}

Other good areas:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Area'''
| '''Coordinator'''
|-
| Upstate/Greenville
| Who?
|-
| Spartanburg
| Who?
|-
| Columbia
| Who?
|-
| Charleston
| Who?
|}
These are just examples. Modify them at will. - xq
