{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[19:31] <Flare183> Ok I'm here
[19:31] <xq> For tiger-lan?
[19:32] <xq> The competition servers?
[19:32] <Flare183> xq: Has it started yet?
[19:32] <xq> http://tiger-lan.net/servers.php
[19:32] <Rossimo> the servers are going to be set up tomorrow nights
[19:32] <xq> Ah, ok.
[19:32] <Rossimo> night*
[19:32] <xq> Not yet, guess we should start soon. Thought at least two more were attending but we can start...
[19:33] <Flare183> xq: ok just making sure
[19:33] <xq> We have this problem with meeting attendence ;)
[19:33] <xq> Ross: How do you get people to attend your meeting? Curiousity.
[19:33] <xq> meetings*
[19:33] <recluse2> threats and intimidation?
[19:33] <xq> I can't necessarily hand out candy. I guess I could do door prizes.
[19:33] <xq> recluse2: True...true.
[19:34] <Flare183> hehe wow
[19:34] <Rossimo> xq: Typically about 10
[19:34] <recluse2> my wife is good for threats and intimidation
[19:34] <jimbruun> I've got some old 286s I could throw in.
[19:34] <Rossimo> it all depends on what we're presenting on, though
[19:34] <xq> I bet
[19:34] <recluse2> she is scary some times
[19:34] <xq> lol
[19:35] <xq> We could get her to post the first Ubuntu SC Youtube Video
[19:35] <xq> On "Why You Should Come to a Meeting" and what happens if you do not show up.
[19:35] <xq> Okay moving along...
[19:35] <recluse2> She  will dig your liver out with a serving spoon!
[19:35] <xq> We are applying for OFFICIAL team Status in May in front of the Ubuntu Community Council. This is the "big step." :)
[19:35] <xq> So the April Meetings are pretty important steps.
[19:36] <xq> The Charter on the forums also will need to be complete (or at least acceptable) by then and a roadmap (for the next 6 -12 months) will need to be created by then.
[19:36] <xq> For presentation to the council :) And I'd like all of this on the Wiki and website and forums, of course.
[19:36] <xq> All of this is for May. The roadmap will help guide us beyond then.
[19:37] <xq> recluse2's circulated document was excellent in explanation of all of this (and why we need it)
[19:37] <jimbruun> The roadmap a WAG about future accomplishments?
[19:37] <xq> In gaining "official team status" we gain a lot of recognition
[19:37] <xq> Yep, jim
[19:37] <xq> About what we hope to accomplish
[19:37] <jimbruun> Does recognition help our goals.
[19:37] <xq> We need to map that out. Some has been mapped out on my personal wiki. But we need to make it official. :)
[19:37] <xq> Aye!
[19:38] <xq> Goal statements, etc. can all be in there...and just generalized to help the roadmap. It will help us move forward as a team.
[19:38] <xq> That way we have a bulleted list to "check off" (so to say).
[19:38] <jimbruun> We intend to help schools get ubuntu?
[19:38] <xq> Yes
[19:38] <Flare183> jimbruun: yes
[19:38] <Flare183> oops
[19:38] <xq> This is definitely on the top priority list
[19:38] <xq> Flare it's fine :)
[19:39] <Flare183> ok
[19:39] <xq> High schools, middle schools, colleges
[19:39] <xq> I really want to help LUGs :)
[19:39] <xq> And I think the team will agree
[19:39] <Flare183> yeap
[19:39] <xq> As Flare jumped in :)
[19:39] <xq> Once we get official team status, that will help -a ton-
[19:39] <xq> We will get unlimited CDs and a bit more official Canonical support on the back burner
[19:39] <Flare183> Awesome!
[19:40] <Flare183> brb
[19:41] <xq> I also want to be able to reach out and "partner" with other local Linux establishments eventually
[19:41] <xq> They do not necessarily have to be Ubuntu
[19:41] <xq> But their users have freedom to use Ubuntu
[19:41] * Flare183 is back
[19:41] <xq> So I see that as a possible entry point, and Linux is Linux after all
[19:41] <xq> Any additions to any of this? :) Brian?
[19:42] <xq> Or recluse? Sorry!
[19:42] <xq> B = r.
[19:42] <Flare183> hehe
[19:42] <recluse2> We just need to get it on paper and posted
[19:42] <xq> Aye, I agree
[19:42] <Flare183> Yeah, but posted where?
[19:42] <xq> Forums first
[19:42] <xq> Then Wiki
[19:42] <xq> And eventually website
[19:43] <xq> Is how I see this forming out
[19:43] <Flare183> Oh ok gotcha
[19:43] <xq> Forums are a good place for review
[19:43] <Flare183> I understand
[19:43] <recluse2> you took the words from my mouth xq
[19:43] <xq> I really see the website serving as a portal
[19:44] <xq> I'll start forming some of this up into official plans
[19:44] <xq> Flare has a great prototype for the Wiki
[19:44] <xq> We just need some graphics for it (to spice it up a bit)
[19:44] <jimbruun> So one of us posts an idea or two on the forum, then group edit?
[19:44] <xq> And it will be good to go, most likely, way before May crunch time
[19:44] <Flare183> yeah still working on it and I need some ideas on subpages, etc.
[19:44] <xq> And we can drop in the content
[19:44] <xq> Aye, jim
[19:44] <recluse2> Id like to see the prototype
[19:44] <xq> Post an idea, then get group feedback on it (and just ask for it, I think)
[19:45] <Flare183> recluse2: I give you the link one sec
[19:45] <xq> Flare: Do you mind linking the prototype here and in your Wiki Forum post?
[19:45] <xq> Cool thanks
[19:45] <Flare183> yeah one sec
[19:45] <xq> And I'm sure Flare welcomes feedback
[19:45] <xq> It's just more Table of Content based
[19:45] <Flare183> yes feed back would be great
[19:45] <Flare183> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SouthCarolinaTeam/Prototype/Home
[19:46] <xq> If we can get a logo to drop in (which I don't mind dallying up), I just need to find some vector graphics ... then I can do this
[19:46] <xq> I've just been overworked lately, to be honest
[19:47] <recluse2> the wiki page looks nice. I feel i needs a little graphics though
[19:47] <xq> (Moving along a little bit) We're looking to form out subteams and experiment with these and see if they might help in our efforts. These could consist of a Wiki Team and perhaps a Web Team to start with. They could help write content, propose it on the forums, etc.
[19:47] <xq> Aye, recluse :) It does. I think I can help in that or someone else can.
[19:47] <Flare183> Still working on it. Trying to get it be similar to this: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArizonaTeam
[19:48] <xq> Or maybe three graphic elements at the top
[19:48] <xq> In a table
[19:48] <xq> Then our logo
[19:48] <xq> That's nice too, in table then the logo :)
[19:48] <Flare183> The banner at the top, that's what I am trying to get onto the prototype
[19:48] <Flare183> But I really don't know how. And I haven't had much luck.
[19:48] <recluse2> looks good
[19:49] <xq> (cntd. teams) And the teams could help in a volunteer effort in forming content, designing the web site etc. among themselves and posting on the forums for member review :)
[19:49] <jimbruun> I think I've seen a SC map on a gardening site which can be modified.
[19:49] <xq> We think teams would be great! But it would require a bit of volunteerism on the member's parts.
[19:49] <Flare183> Like sub-teams right xq?
[19:49] <xq> Aye, Flare
[19:50] <recluse2> I will fool with the table thing and maybe get you some code Flare ( I Volunteer)
[19:51] <Flare183> recluse2: ok thanks
[19:52] <xq> If you guys see any accomplishments, goals or anything else for the team please feel free to points them out here, on the forums (probably a better place because more viewers) or the mailing list
[19:52] <xq> That way we can make sure to place them on the roadmap
[19:52] <xq> And the main things we're looking at right now are definitely the Charter (see forums), Road Map, Wiki (updates), and Web Site in preparation for May.
[19:52] <xq> Those are the major things for the next month..
[19:52] <recluse2> My wife was recently at myrtle beach and the capital in columbia, and took a ton of pictures so maybe we can use a few on our projects
[19:53] <Flare183> cool
[19:53] <xq> That's true too, that would be great
[19:53] <xq> And we would love to extend our outreach to a network of groups like LUGs and Free Linux PC program etc. in S.C.
[19:54] <xq> Which we will be able to do come May
[19:54] <xq> Because I really do see us getting approved
[19:54] <Flare183> That's good
[19:54] <xq> Kevin Jones from Free Linux PC wanted to speak tonight here at the meeting but he's running a bit behind
[19:54] <Rossimo> yeah, currently the flpc is having an event saturday in Easley, and we've been working on a few things
[19:54] <xq> He'll most likely be in here at 8:30 or 8:40ish
[19:55] <xq> Rossimo may have some input
[19:55] <Rossimo> yeah, i've been building an installation disk on top of Edubuntu
[19:55] <xq> But Kevin might be at the next meeting (unofficial meeting) scheduled in April, we'll see...
[19:55] <Flare183> Rossimo: now that's cool
[19:55] <Rossimo> they have already have at least one event, let me get that link...
[19:55] <recluse2> flpc in easley? I'm there!
[19:55] * xq hands the mic to Rossimo.
[19:55] <Flare183> hehe wow
[19:56] * Flare183 wishes there was somebody in here that knew something about programming C/C++
[19:56] <Rossimo> yeah, i'm trying to get the info together right now
[19:56] <xq> http://www.uclug.org/
[19:56] <Rossimo> kevin just let me know he couldn't make it until later
[19:56] <xq> http://www.freelinuxpc.org/
[19:56] <Rossimo> yeah
[19:56] <Rossimo> thats the link
[19:56] <jimbruun> It's been awhile, but C/C++ is no big deal for me.
[19:57] <xq> They also have a Google Group: http://groups.google.com/group/uclug-flpc
[19:57] <xq> So feel free to attend their events. This is one of those Ubuntu South Carolina "does network" type of things! :-)
[19:57] <xq> In the future, our website and wiki will reflect that more << makes note >>
[19:57] <Rossimo> there's a presentation that describes the entire project, hidden in my gmail somewhere
[19:58] <xq> Kevin is a great guy. He came to us.
[19:58] <Rossimo> one sec...
[19:58] <Flare183> jimbruun: well if you are interested look at this: https://edge.launchpad.net/kdefox
[19:58] <xq> Sorry.
[19:58] <Flare183> jimbruun: hurry launchpad will be down in 2 minutes
[19:58] * xq hands the mic back over to Rossimo.
[19:58] <recluse2> Ive been looking at the UCLUG pages for a while now, was about to give those guys a shout, then learned they got to us first
[19:58] <Flare183> recluse2: hehe what did they say?
[19:59] <Rossimo> yeah, i can get you guys a image of the disk we're currently testing
[19:59] <jimbruun> Flare: just peeked at it.\
[19:59] <xq> Rossimo: Would love a copy
[19:59] <Rossimo> its edubuntu + miro + education programs + tons of other stuff
[19:59] <xq> Is it branded "SC"?
[19:59] <xq> Desktop etc.?
[19:59] <Rossimo> we're also including a copy of the xubuntu-desktop as well
[19:59] <Flare183> jimbruun: ok i'm usg bzr as the version control and source control
[19:59] <xq> (Or any branding assets) for marketing purposes?
[19:59] <Rossimo> everything's branded "flpc"
[20:00] <xq> Got it
[20:00] <Flare183> I didn't know you brand anything on Ubuntu or it's flavors
[20:01] <xq> You can just brand imagery :)
[20:01] <Rossimo> there's not really and logo stuff going on a the moment, just trying to get the thing to work like we want it
[20:01] <xq> Got it
[20:01] <xq> (I'm in eMarketing/Marketing/Design -- can you tell?)
[20:01] <xq> ;p
[20:01] <Rossimo> http://tinyurl.com/2v667b
[20:02] <Rossimo> the pdf presentation for FLPC
[20:03] <Rossimo> currently there using a fedora-based imaging solution
[20:03] <Rossimo> called cobbler
[20:03] <xq> And they've seen the light?
[20:03] <Flare183> Rossimo: looks like the OpenOffice Logo
[20:03] <xq> (Just kidding)
[20:03] <xq> Yeah it does
[20:03] <Rossimo> click through the presentation
[20:03] <Rossimo> that's just an OO template
[20:03] <recluse2> I thought the same XQ
[20:04] <xq> Oh my god, the bullets, the bullets!
[20:04] <xq> Have you ever seen "Death by Powerpoint"?
[20:04] <recluse2> is fedora based on debian?
[20:04] <xq> Sorry, I couldn't resist
[20:04] <xq> RedHat
[20:04] <recluse2> OH!
[20:04] <xq> Fedora = RedHat...then CentOS is their Enterprise free "one" for servers hehe
[20:04] <Flare183> Ubuntu is based on Debian
[20:05] <xq> FLPC pictures!
[20:05] <jimbruun> I have my wife dual 1booting Fedora Core 7, but she stays in Win2K
[20:05] <Flare183> Rossimo: Yeap I agree perfect solution
[20:05] <xq> jimbruun: ugh
[20:05] <recluse2> Where will the FLPC in Easley be and at what time?
[20:05] <xq> Rossimo: This is great though.
[20:06] <Rossimo> http://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=YWE3bHN0ZGtib2VnaWlpZTA4cm9ldTZoMDAga2pvbmVzQGZyZWVsaW51eHBjLm9yZw&ctz=America/New_York
[20:06] <Rossimo> before the event starts, there having a cobbler presentation
[20:06] <Rossimo> they're*
[20:06] <Rossimo> i won't be able to make it to the event, unfortunately
[20:07] <recluse2> I may indeed go
[20:07] <Flare183> I added to my google calendar events
[20:07] <xq> I have a conflict, but I am going to try
[20:07] <Flare183> You may see a teen walk up to you guys and say "What's up" That will be me.
[20:07] <xq> It's about an hour drive, but I may be able to work it into something with my family :)
[20:08] <Flare183> hehe Now guys migh flip
[20:08] <Flare183> might*
[20:08] <Flare183> you guys*
[20:08] <xq> http://www.slideshare.net/thecroaker/death-by-powerpoint
[20:08] <Rossimo> ah
[20:08] <xq> ^^ Most of my current work's slides look like that.
[20:08] <xq> Like ancient athen's on crack.
[20:08] <Flare183> wow
[20:08] <xq> Check that out. It's kind of funny.
[20:08] <Rossimo> kevin will be able to answer a lot more stuff about this, when gets on in about half and hour
[20:09] <Rossimo> any questions in particular?
[20:09] <xq> Forbidden - You don't have permission to access /xq.
[20:09] <xq> Nope, no questions. :) thanks Rossimo. I really want to go.
[20:09] <xq> Wait, one question.
[20:09] <jimbruun> If you see an old bearded guy hobbling along, then I made it there.
[20:09] <xq> When are the regular meetings for FLPC?
[20:10] <xq> I believe they are hosted in Greenville once a month?
[20:10] <Flare183> xq: hahahaha very funny :)
[20:10] <xq> In case members are interested?
[20:10] <Flare183> Xd
[20:10] <Flare183> oops
[20:10] <Flare183> XD
[20:10] <Rossimo> i'm not sure how there meetings works, i've only had direct correspondence kevin. i would think it's part of their UCLUG meetings
[20:10] <Rossimo> thier*
[20:10] <Flare183> their*
[20:10] <xq> Ah, got cha.
[20:10] <xq> I'll check with him and see what I can find out.
[20:11] <xq> They do have meetings in Greenville, S.C. though.
[20:11] <xq> I believe it is once a month :)
[20:11] * Flare183 nods
[20:11] <xq> I was just unsure of the date/time/location.
[20:11] <xq> Which may be central for some of us...
[20:11] <jimbruun> hour and a half
[20:11] <xq> Thanks for everyone that made it. Kevin will be on for more in about 30 minutes if you can/want to stay and chat.
[20:12] <Rossimo> let me see if i can give you guys access to that image...
[20:12] <xq> Otherwise, the meeting is officially over. Remember -- MAY MAY MAY. And April meetings! Wiki, wiki, wiki. Content, content, content. Contribute, contribute, CONTRIIIBUTTTEEE! Thanks ;-)
[20:12] <Flare183> ok wow
[20:13] <recluse2> Will talk to you later xq. I will be in the forum!
[20:13] <xq> No problem, recluse2. Thanks for coming. Take it easy! Jesse/Flare will be in touch about the Wiki. You guys can work together.
[20:13] <Flare183> awesome
[20:13] <xq> ------End of meeting-----
</pre>
----
CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
