{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===
This charter is a work in progress. We are building the team from scratch and want everyone in the state of South Carolina who is interested in Ubuntu to join in

=== Charter ===
* 1. All Ubuntu South Carolina, Ubuntians, LoCo Team Members will show respect to each other at all times whether it be online or telephone (virtual) communication in any form or non-virtual communication in person.

* 2. All members are expected to contribute to the team, as a whole, in some way whether it be: ideas, volunteered time in some form, etc.

* 3. Members must attend one I.R.C. meeting every 6 months to be considered (and remain considered) an active member of Ubuntu Team South Carolina. All members and administrators are held to this standard.

* 3a. If special circumstances prevent your attending meetings at the proposed times, please contact an Ubuntu South Carolina administration and make alternative arrangements. We will work to accommodate your needs.

* 3b. A non-official meeting will take place every 2 weeks for those that wish to attend. It is not an official meeting (per say) and is thus not required for attendance.

* 3bb. It can, however, be substituted under the special circumstances rule (WITH PRIOR APPROVAL of S.C. admins) for the official meeting. This approval must be given within 1 week of the meeting. It is not a permanent approval and is given on a one time only basis. It must be given again if a specific issue arises again.

=== Summation ===
Join the team, Contribute your ideas, participate in the Forum and in IRC, Voice your ideas and opinions. We can build a great team and a powerful movement in South Carolina, we just need your participation, ideas, and enthusiasm!
----
CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
