{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for <nowiki>[[SouthDakotaTeam]]</nowiki> Group (ubuntu-us-sd) ==

This is the application request for the Ubuntu South Dakota LoCo Team. Our aim is to create a local community in which people feel free to be open about their use of Linux. We feel the more open people are, the more likely they will be to fight bug 1.

As the new driver behind this Team, I intend to push hard until we reach the tipping point. If one does not exist, I guess I'll just keep pushing.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''list the date of application'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Michael Lustfield <michael at. profarius dot. com>
* '''Membership''' - Date of application | 23 mailing list members & 12 LP members
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-us-sd on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-sd on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

When given time, I will be updating all our users on this activity.

* ''Merge LoCo/LP'' - I would like to bring the LP members the the LoCo list/team and vise versa.
* ''Eliminate Bug 1'' - Of course, I just had to throw it in here.
* ''Generate Activity'' - I feel the word of Linux is spreading pretty slow and I want to do everything I can to push it forward as fast as possible.
* ''Spread the Word'' - I aim to fix Bug 1 just by informing people of their choices. I hope for this team to help by sharing ideas and suggestions.
* ''Support'' - I want a community that is so large that there is no problem with a member taking a short time out of there day to go to their neighbors house and help figure something out.
* ''Activity'' - I want to generate a community that is able to act together like a close family.
* ''Integration'' - I want this community to work as a whole with all other LoCo Teams as well as the Ubuntu community as a whole.

=== Experience ===

* ''Release Parties'' - We have had a few release parties that I was not part of. There is little documentation on the success of these parties.
* ''MTecknology'' - I am a well known user and Ubuntu advocate online as well as my community. You can check out my profile at <nowiki>[[MTecknology]]</nowiki>.
* ''College'' - I am also know around college as the guy to come to when there's a security or Linux question.
* ''Doug Jennewein'' - Doug is the original founder of the initiative behind this Team.
