{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Here is the log for this meeting:

{{{
(07:32:40 PM) #ubuntu-us-sc: The topic for #ubuntu-us-sc is: http://www.ubuntusc.com/ | The Ubuntu-SC Team is currently working on the UbuntuSC.com website (actively) and the Ubuntu Wiki. | Please use the forums as a means of communication. | There will be a casual meeting at the end of June to discuss progress of these beta versions. | Please keep ideas coming in via the forums...feedback and input is always valued and seen as your contribution to the team as a whole.
(07:35:23 PM) xq: wb
(07:35:35 PM) recluse2: howdy
(07:36:13 PM) xq: how are you doing? :)
(07:36:32 PM) mrtsunami: Hey xq and recluse2
(07:36:37 PM) recluse2: okay I guess
(07:37:15 PM) recluse2: what have you been up too recently xq? havent heard from you in a while
(07:38:05 PM) recluse2: how are you mrtsunami?
(07:38:07 PM) xq: working, been working on the beta site -- it's about ready
(07:38:16 PM) recluse2: cool!
(07:38:20 PM) xq: also been in here the past few weeks :)
(07:38:27 PM) xq: met our newest member, talked with him
(07:38:36 PM) xq: he's a great guy near myrtle
(07:38:37 PM) recluse2: tonberry?
(07:38:48 PM) xq: makes me wanna go scuba diving ;p
(07:39:11 PM) xq: system admin ("myrtlebeachbums")
(07:39:21 PM) recluse2: oh yeah
(07:40:04 PM) recluse2: I seen the conversation (public) but I get everyone mixed up from time to time
(07:40:10 PM) xq: how's everything on your home front?
(07:40:18 PM) xq: no problem
(07:40:46 PM) xq: the wiki looks great :)
(07:40:57 PM) recluse2: me? Im fine. sleep schedule really screwed up, but I am here!
(07:41:01 PM) xq: did you go to the meeting in easley?
(07:41:08 PM) xq: yeah I remember that
(07:41:13 PM) xq: wondered if you got it wrangled ;)
(07:41:19 PM) xq: mine gets screwed up every now and then
(07:41:23 PM) xq: it's hell with work when it does
(07:42:08 PM) mrtsunami: recluse2: Tonberry is me on another client
(07:42:26 PM) recluse2: I went a couple of weeks ago. they were dealing with a printer issue, and it looks like there is no fix
(07:43:15 PM) recluse2: OH, thank you for clarifying that mrtsunami. Like I said, I get confused from time to time
(07:44:07 PM) recluse2: I know what you mean xq. I couldnt possibly work in this shape. I cant get anything done
(07:44:33 PM) xq: It feels like everything is in slow motion
(07:44:40 PM) xq: Or every one is in fast motion?
(07:44:45 PM) xq: Heck, see? ;)
(07:44:55 PM) xq: And...worse than that, it's like you're dizzy too
(07:45:26 PM) recluse2: On the subject of FLPC Dell donated a bunch of Printers to the project, but there is no linux driver!
(07:45:36 PM) xq: And all you can think of is sleep (but you're not tired) -- and if you're really far from sleep (like 2 - 3+ days...) delirium kicks in
(07:45:43 PM) xq: Now that is bad ;)
(07:45:54 PM) mrtsunami: xq: I hate that feeling. >.<
(07:45:55 PM) xq: Which printer?
(07:45:58 PM) xq: I swear by the 1600n
(07:46:06 PM) recluse2: I live in a constant state of delirium!
(07:46:09 PM) xq: It's a laser and they've sold it for years
(07:46:18 PM) xq: B&W though
(07:46:25 PM) xq: I guess it was a newer model
(07:46:35 PM) xq: Dell is good about Linux drivers lately
(07:46:36 PM) recluse2: It is a Dell All in one 926
(07:46:44 PM) xq: hmm
(07:46:50 PM) xq: Maybe soon
(07:47:08 PM) recluse2: that is about the only hope they have now
(07:48:08 PM) xq: Cups is pretty good about printer drivers, though
(07:48:12 PM) xq: It should work soon, I imagine
(07:48:43 PM) xq: Heck, I remember when they though USB would never be in Linux
(07:48:43 PM) recluse2: they are getting things in order down there. It has been a couple of weeks since I went down there. I would have went down there today, but I dont think anyone was going to be there
(07:49:04 PM) xq: And it took like 2 years for it to be inside the kernel back then (USB)
(07:49:17 PM) xq: Now things like printers and drivers are nothing because of so many people
(07:50:07 PM) xq: I think most printers use PPD (PostScript) that I buy, truthfully
(07:50:13 PM) xq: Okay, 'nuff about printers ;-)
(07:50:16 PM) xq: And the past hehe
(07:50:25 PM) xq: But, yeah...memories
(07:50:42 PM) xq: I just can't believe how far this "project" came
(07:50:58 PM) recluse2: yeah
(07:51:16 PM) xq: When did you start using Linux?
(07:51:41 PM) recluse2: me?
(07:52:00 PM) xq: And for printers -- you can always download the Windows driver and look for a PPD file
(07:52:08 PM) recluse2: for a few years. off and on
(07:52:12 PM) xq: That's the driver file and Ubuntu/CUPs can use it for important driver information
(07:52:15 PM) xq: :)
(07:52:20 PM) xq: Ah, what were your first distros? :)
(07:52:20 PM) recluse2: I tried that couldnt find it
(07:53:05 PM) recluse2: knoppix, PClinux, SUSE
(07:53:57 PM) xq: All flavours, basically
(07:54:05 PM) recluse2: Fedora 9 is what FLPC is using now, it is pretty slick, but I am an Ubuntu man
(07:54:11 PM) xq: Yeah
(07:54:17 PM) xq: SUSE is very close to Fedora 9
(07:54:21 PM) xq: RPM system
(07:54:33 PM) xq: Just different package management (now, at least)
(07:55:02 PM) recluse2: I was fumbling around with Fedora, but I got around to what I needed. I dont like KDE
(07:55:28 PM) xq: yeah, all linuxes are about the same -- just some of the structures are different by the way they are setup (and are meant to be)
(07:55:36 PM) recluse2: true
(07:55:39 PM) xq: Now where they get a bit different is file structure or file system
(07:55:46 PM) xq: And a major fork at BSD/Unix
(07:56:08 PM) recluse2: yeah, I dont know much about that
(07:56:08 PM) xq: But I will say GNU/Debian is a bit different than RedHat (which is where we are forked from) RedHat --> SuSe/Fedora
(07:56:18 PM) recluse2: yep
(07:56:19 PM) xq: And GNU/Debian --> Ubuntu and all flavour
(07:56:22 PM) xq: So hehe
(07:56:32 PM) xq: I dunno, just different commands, but mostly the same
(07:56:39 PM) recluse2: yup
(07:56:44 PM) xq: But BSD/FreeBSD/NetBSD. Ever been on a shell with those?
(07:56:54 PM) xq: Those are really a different world
(07:57:04 PM) recluse2: A company I used to work at used red hat. I hated it
(07:57:49 PM) xq: Really, really stable (if you're after stability for a server that needs to be up "forever"), but I've always felt it was like a different OS which I guess it is
(07:57:57 PM) xq: Yeah...
(07:57:58 PM) xq: I do to
(07:58:14 PM) xq: It's almost like using Windows (as far as being so "propietary")
(07:58:27 PM) xq: It's not like you can easily use mp3s/avis/and things
(07:58:46 PM) xq: It's mainly just for servers and, again, I think enterprise stability things...
(07:58:56 PM) xq: And putting a name on "linux" enterprise
(07:59:04 PM) xq: But if you want that - hell, get CentOS ;-)
(07:59:07 PM) recluse2: I totally Agree
(07:59:07 PM) xq: Same thing
(08:00:00 PM) recluse2: I got the proprietary feeling from it. that is exactly why I hated it
(08:00:11 PM) recluse2: The next time I go to FLPC I plan on taking a camera and putting up some pics for our group for all to see
(08:00:33 PM) xq: awesome
(08:01:00 PM) recluse2: I wonder where flare is at
(08:01:09 PM) xq: dunno
(08:01:19 PM) recluse2: he was here a while ago
(08:01:42 PM) recluse2: this being an official meeting!
(08:03:54 PM) xq: Myrtle should be here too ;)
(08:03:59 PM) ***xq ponders!
(08:20:44 PM) recluse2: you know, maybe if we have a bad winter in sc maybe we'll have better participation in the group
(08:21:08 PM) recluse2: it sure doesnt look like were gonna get it this summer
(08:24:01 PM) recluse2: I've tried different things in the forums like the "funny little story" post and the rather opinionated "the direction we need to go" post and no one ever responds
(08:24:30 PM) recluse2: you'd think that someone would atleast give a LOL
(08:25:02 PM) xq: yeah.
(08:25:08 PM) xq: Harsh winter for the win?
(08:25:19 PM) recluse2: yep
(08:25:22 PM) xq: We should get together and form a "harsh winter ubuntu circle" I think.
(08:25:31 PM) recluse2: LOL
(08:26:00 PM) recluse2: I was hoping that when it got too hot people would be more active but...
(08:28:02 PM) xq: Too busy watering crap ;-p
(08:28:17 PM) recluse2: The only thing I guess that we can address tonight since no one showed up is on the agenda for tonight's meeting is the update on official status
(08:28:49 PM) recluse2: is the website "live" anywhere?
(08:28:59 PM) recluse2: the new one that is
(08:29:02 PM) xq: ubuntusc.com/beta
(08:29:09 PM) xq: I just need to fix0r links and insert logo
(08:29:51 PM) xq: (yes yes we used content from somewhere else)
(08:29:55 PM) xq: (we know)
(08:29:57 PM) xq: ( :P )
(08:30:02 PM) recluse2: good God, that is nice!
(08:30:05 PM) xq: (but graphics need to be fixed)
(08:30:16 PM) xq: and the content and graphics are what need to be worked on
(08:30:19 PM) xq: and it's mainly a portal
(08:30:43 PM) xq: and the official status will be at the meeting where I can get five, real, livig, breathing, human beings to show up
(08:30:53 PM) xq: i'll make a post on the forums with the next two upcoming council meetings
(08:30:54 PM) recluse2: indeed!
(08:30:58 PM) xq: and say "be there or die" type of post
(08:31:05 PM) xq: being they look for attendence and support
(08:31:14 PM) xq: and that's a factor
(08:31:18 PM) xq: but i'm told 5 will do
(08:31:23 PM) xq: so 5 it is for us ;)
(08:31:30 PM) xq: I would love more, but we will do with 5 ;)
(08:31:31 PM) xq: hehe
(08:31:56 PM) xq: so I'll count on you, flare, mrtsunami, hopefully myrtle, myself...and more
(08:32:01 PM) xq: oh and TelnetManta!
(08:32:07 PM) xq: And maybe I can solicit more from the group's list
(08:32:08 PM) recluse2: I just dont know how to get more people to show up. We really arent askig for much
(08:32:12 PM) xq: Maybe Antonio Vertigo
(08:32:22 PM) xq: Hasn't been active in awhile but was VERY active in the beggining for example...
(08:32:26 PM) recluse2: who is antonio vertigo?
(08:32:26 PM) xq: Etc.
(08:32:28 PM) xq: Me either
(08:32:42 PM) xq: He was very active on IRC, on e-mail (with me) and setup the initial web site
(08:32:54 PM) xq: You'll see his name everyone on ubuntusc.com (main site) and in early posts
(08:33:00 PM) xq: But then I lost touch
(08:33:04 PM) xq: I'll try to see what happened
(08:33:19 PM) xq: brb, haven't eatten all day -- need to warm up something hehe
(08:33:21 PM) xq: But that should work
(08:33:24 PM) recluse2: I've seen his name in many places but never conversed with him
(08:33:36 PM) xq: Now we just nee to make sure *people attend* because it's a big thing (the approval)
(08:33:43 PM) xq: Yeah
(08:33:51 PM) xq: He kind of dropped off the face of the planet really ;-)
(09:15:19 PM) myrtlebeachbums [n=dbush@158.170-avail-pool-cc.sccoast.net] entered the room.
(09:15:35 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I hate my ISP.
(09:16:10 PM) myrtlebeachbums: On a night in which there's a woot off and our monthly meeting, they decided to go down for three hours so I miss both. Grrrr.....
(09:16:21 PM) xq: It's okay
(09:16:24 PM) xq: What ISP?
(09:16:28 PM) myrtlebeachbums: HTC
(09:16:29 PM) xq: Broadband?!
(09:16:32 PM) xq: Sue 'em
(09:16:32 PM) xq: hehe
(09:16:34 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Local to Myrtle and Conway.
(09:16:44 PM) myrtlebeachbums: This has been a far too common occurance.
(09:16:56 PM) xq: Sounds like it
(09:16:59 PM) xq: Crazy ISP
(09:17:06 PM) mrtsunami: That's horrible.
(09:17:11 PM) xq: I wonder if recluse2 and mrtsunami are still awake
(09:17:14 PM) xq: yoohooooo
(09:17:17 PM) xq: (hehe)
(09:17:20 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Last week when my wife had oral surgery the bounced the line all week long as the "performed upgrades".
(09:17:25 PM) xq: Yep!
(09:17:26 PM) myrtlebeachbums: So much for working at home.
(09:17:28 PM) mrtsunami: xq: I foresaw that question and led a preemptive strike
(09:17:34 PM) xq: (I love working at home)
(09:17:40 PM) ***xq was struck.
(09:17:47 PM) ***xq notes this occurance.
(09:17:52 PM) myrtlebeachbums: If my in-laws weren't living with us, I'd like it more. ;)
(09:18:25 PM) mrtsunami: I don't know if I'd like to work at home someday.
(09:18:37 PM) myrtlebeachbums: The one saving grace was it forced me to not surf so I could cram for my LPI exam tomorrow.
(09:18:40 PM) mrtsunami: I guess I don't have to determine that now, though.
(09:19:00 PM) xq: hehe
(09:19:11 PM) xq: Working at home every now and then is good
(09:19:18 PM) xq: But I can't do it all of the time
(09:19:25 PM) myrtlebeachbums: It's LPI-101, and I've used Linux since '99. I'm not forseeing a huge problem with it.
(09:20:14 PM) xq: It's good "wheen needed" for me (I.E. once a day every 2 weeks or half a day every two weeks or so for convenience) or like for a week or so after surgery...it has its ups and downs :)
(09:20:20 PM) xq: I get cabin fever after a while
(09:20:44 PM) myrtlebeachbums: So for those that are still here, as you can guess I'm in Myrtle. Technically Conway, but if you're local enough to know the difference then we should get together some time. :)
(09:21:12 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I work as a Unix admin at the Myrtle office for a network security company based out of Atlanta.
(09:21:13 PM) mrtsunami: I would have never guessed that.
(09:21:24 PM) xq: We discussed our web site ( ubuntusc.com/beta ) and our upcoming official team status and how we will need good attendence at the Ubuntu Council meeting (To Be Accounced and passed on via our mailing list and forums ) ... myrtlebeachbums
(09:21:31 PM) xq: We would like a good attendence
(09:21:48 PM) myrtlebeachbums: How does attendance work on that? Is it online or in-person?
(09:22:07 PM) xq: And we would also like feedback regarding our website (which will serve mainly as a portal, information for content -- it mainly just need content inserted, links updated and graphics).
(09:22:23 PM) xq: Council meets and online (it's U.S. and Canada)
(09:22:42 PM) xq: It's led by Caninical/Ubuntu volunteers
(09:22:53 PM) xq: Mark S. is sometimes there
(09:23:16 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Gotcha. I'll make sure I'm there if it helps. I'm also a new member of the UWN team, so if we get anything going that's reportable I can get it out there.
(09:24:17 PM) myrtlebeachbums: As a n00b here, I guess how can I help is my # 1 question.
(09:24:51 PM) xq: Staying active :) Well that's well #1 (obviously) hehe
(09:25:00 PM) xq: Which is I guess a "duh"
(09:25:10 PM) xq: But other than that partcipation, ideas and feedback :)
(09:25:21 PM) xq: And anything that can "give back" to the team at large
(09:25:34 PM) xq: Really that's what these teams are about
(09:25:50 PM) xq: To try to spread Ubuntu/Linux into the community
(09:25:56 PM) xq: (Online and Off)
(09:26:04 PM) xq: Off might be eventual as we coordinate online
(09:26:10 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Have we done any install-fests? Any desire to physically get together and put faces to screen names? (Like it'd be difficult convincing people to come to Myrtle some time.) :)
(09:26:48 PM) xq: And S.C. is one of the "tougher" states (even said so by the Ubuntu US LoCo Council, we were one of the last to form)...
(09:27:37 PM) myrtlebeachbums: You'd be surprised how many Linux folks there are where I work. I was forced to bring Exchange in before we merged, and there was a general WTF?! from the folks there.
(09:27:48 PM) xq: We could try. I think Myrtle would be nice as a vacation. Charleston or Myrtle as well. (Charleston maybe would be better for location?)
(09:28:17 PM) xq: But I do think that Greenville would be a better local altogether for our members
(09:28:26 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Unless I'm on-call you'll never, ever have difficulty getting me to Charleston. Julie (my wife) and I love it there.
(09:28:31 PM) xq: As far as central and right in the middle for everyone to just "gather"
(09:28:41 PM) xq: (And plus GSP is right there, "just in case")
(09:28:41 PM) myrtlebeachbums: If anyone's from Chas, I'll be at Tommy Condon's Saturday night.
(09:28:54 PM) xq: We'll have to see
(09:29:32 PM) xq: Some, if not all, of our members are younger though -- below 22 (or 21)
(09:29:47 PM) xq: Which means harder to travel (monetary-wise, I'm thinking)
(09:29:54 PM) xq: So this may be the main issue I foresee
(09:29:54 PM) myrtlebeachbums: So I'm the geezer of the bunch at 39. :)
(09:30:00 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Gotcha.
(09:30:06 PM) xq: I'm only 24
(09:30:17 PM) xq: TelnetManta is 35?
(09:30:25 PM) xq: Maybe 38? I forget, I'm sorry.
(09:30:29 PM) xq: He's a great guy.
(09:30:37 PM) myrtlebeachbums: That's cool.
(09:31:04 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I'll have to see what I can do at work to encourage others to join the team. I can think of at least one other person who really likes Ubuntu - probably more.
(09:31:08 PM) xq: System admin/network administrator for Anderson County's school distry 5.
(09:31:17 PM) xq: That would be -great-!
(09:31:48 PM) myrtlebeachbums: The one guy I'm thinking about saw my Ubuntu Certified Professional exam guide on my desk and got excited, so he should be an easy catch for this group.
(09:31:54 PM) xq: I just have a job (eMarketing/Web Design/Linux/System Admin), somehow it all tied together out of college and I got lucky in a small biz environment.
(09:32:12 PM) xq: Nice, I didn't know there was an Ubuntu Cerfified thing
(09:32:17 PM) xq: I just knew there was *nix Certified
(09:32:18 PM) xq: Etc.
(09:33:20 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Good for you man! I wrapped up a Masters in Network Security and it came down to either working for Cornell in Ithaca, NY or moving to Myrtle. The night before my interview, as I sat at Hooters in shorts watching the superbowl with palm trees in the background I found myself thinking, "I could live here."
(09:33:52 PM) xq: lol
(09:34:03 PM) xq: I love the backdrop to the story
(09:34:46 PM) myrtlebeachbums: For those interested, you get LPIC-1 (LPI Certification Level 1) which is tests 101 (which I take tomorrow) and 102. After that you take LPI-199, which is the Ubuntu test, and you're an Ubuntu Certified Professional. There's rumor of an Ubuntu Certified Engineer coming, but I assume that will require LPIC-2 certification.
(09:35:08 PM) xq: I'm going to need to head out before my head is busted in for tomorrow, I was up way too early and didn't sleep much. I'll be on from work all day tomorrow (like today) so feel free to hollar if you want
(09:35:18 PM) xq: That is great
(09:35:30 PM) xq: Is there a general one that is not Ubuntu specific and more just "Linux"
(09:35:33 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Hey I grew up in Ogdensburg, NY (point to Canada and we'll call it even) and weeks at a time it was -20 F. I rather enjoy the change here.
(09:35:40 PM) xq: Engineer would be nice
(09:35:43 PM) xq: To cover all bases
(09:35:48 PM) xq: lol
(09:36:00 PM) xq: Yeah, I've had Boston winters
(09:36:18 PM) xq: But that wouldn't compare if it was -20 F (no wind)
(09:36:39 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Yeah the LPI 1 and 2 would be what you're looking for. It's distro agnostic. There's no requirement to take LPI-199 for Ubuntu unless you feel so compelled to do so.
(09:36:39 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Also, all the study materials for these are free online.
(09:36:42 PM) xq: Hopefully recluse2 or TelnetManta will join us at a point
(09:36:48 PM) xq: Great
(09:36:57 PM) myrtlebeachbums: http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/lpi/?S_TACT=105AGX03&S_CMP=LP
(09:37:10 PM) xq: Even better, free is always best. Yeah, IBM's Developer Works is heaven.
(09:37:20 PM) myrtlebeachbums: -20 + wind = your favorite parts falling off.
(09:37:27 PM) xq: I somehow find myself on it daily.
(09:37:40 PM) xq: Yeah...that is absolutely correct.
(09:37:48 PM) xq: Or even not so favorite parts.
(09:37:56 PM) xq: But then you find out you needed them (or wanted them?).
(09:37:58 PM) xq: ;-p
(09:38:13 PM) xq: Like that dangly part of your ear. Damn, who knew you wanted that.
(09:38:35 PM) xq: Anyway, I'll be on tomorrow from work (8:00 A.M. ---> on (caffeined up...))....
(09:38:43 PM) myrtlebeachbums: If I never know the pleasure of having my pants frozen stiff again, it'll be too soon.
(09:38:54 PM) xq: So tap in etc. and we'll chat when possible
(09:39:02 PM) xq: And I'll post everything else on the forums that is specific
(09:39:11 PM) xq: To the site and/or Council meeting
(09:39:15 PM) xq: Or needs feedback
(09:39:15 PM) myrtlebeachbums: So anyway - yeah that site has all the main LPI exams covered. Doesn't have the Ubuntu stuff, but that book cost me $28 on eBay.
(09:39:25 PM) xq: You should post that on the forum
(09:39:28 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I'll see who I can draft in.
(09:39:32 PM) xq: That might gather some attention, myrtle :)
(09:39:36 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Yeah sure thing. I'd be happy to.
(09:39:37 PM) xq: (The exam info)
(09:39:41 PM) xq: That would be awesome
(09:40:00 PM) xq: I'm already interested. But I know I'll be digging through my log files tomorrow morning to find it ;-)
(09:40:15 PM) myrtlebeachbums: Heh heh heh. I'll go post now before I forget then.
(09:40:32 PM) xq: Right now I'm like "LPI, LPI, LPI, LPI" then I just said "Hell, forums!!!"
(09:40:35 PM) xq: hehe
(09:40:40 PM) xq: You can do it whenever
(09:40:50 PM) xq: I'm making a post-it for my posts tomorrow
(09:41:04 PM) xq: This is a screen'd terminal with notes about my tasks tomorrow
(09:41:15 PM) xq: But I'll catch everyone tomorrow if you're on at some point(s)
(09:41:20 PM) xq: I hope everyone has a great night
(09:41:36 PM) xq: Kick your ISP ;-)
(09:41:46 PM) xq: Sounds like they need it.
(09:41:54 PM) xq: (Switch kick in the throttle).
(09:42:01 PM) mrtsunami: 'night xq
(09:42:04 PM) xq: (Swift*)
(09:42:06 PM) xq: 'night
(09:42:15 PM) xq: night mrtsunami
(09:42:18 PM) xq: night myrtlebeachbums
(09:42:29 PM) myrtlebeachbums: G'nite!
(09:42:37 PM) xq: 'night recluse2 whereever you are (I bet you fell asleep on the desk!) hehe
(09:43:28 PM) myrtlebeachbums: I'm going to head out too, but (unless my ISP has more maintenance tomorrow) I'll be here again tomorrow night. Posting the certification info to the forum now too. TTY tomorrow night guys.
(09:43:50 PM) myrtlebeachbums left the room ("Ex-Chat").
(12:28:27 AM) locobot_3 left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(12:29:21 AM) locobot_5 left the room (quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)).
(12:30:10 AM) locobot_5 [n=UbuntuLo@eshu.ubuntu-eu.org] entered the room.
(12:30:21 AM) locobot_3 [n=UbuntuLo@eshu.ubuntu-eu.org] entered the room.}}}
----
CategorySouthCarolinaTeam
