{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Soyo SY-P4VGM v1.0 MotherBoard ==
Is a micro-ATX mobo, I have a Celeron 2.53GHz processor and 1GB of PC2100 DDR memory.  I am using as MediaWiki server, so did not go over-board testing multi-media issues like sound.

=== Soyo MotherBoard page: ===
http://www.soyousa.com/products/proddesc.php?id=273

=== Built in S3 graphics ===
XOrg works with the following Device section:

<code> Section "Device" </code> <<BR>>
<code>    Identifier  "S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]" </code> <<BR>>
<code>    Driver      "savage" </code> <<BR>>
<code>    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0" </code> <<BR>>
<code> EndSection </code> <<BR>>

Sadly, it seems to depend on which display you have attached if this probes properly. When probed with an old Compaq CRT it properly was detected as a "savage" device.  When probed with a new LCD (1280 x 1024) it failed to probe and ended up as an 800x600 generic "vesa" device.  When set correctly with the Savage driver, it has no problem driving the 1280 x 1024 LCD at full resolution.  Later I installed an old nVidia 6200 AGP card and it worked fine with "nv" driver.

=== lmsensors ===
Since it is a server and often running at high load I monitor the core temperatures with gkrellm and gkrellmd.  lmsensors ( http://www.lm-sensors.org/ ) installed easily, adding these lines to /etc/modules with sensors-detect:

<code> i2c-viapro </code> <<BR>>
<code> i2c-isa </code> <<BR>>
<code> eeprom </code> <<BR>>
<code> it87 </code> <<BR>>

Of the sensors:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| fan1
| is CPU fan
| called fan1 by "sensors"
|-
| fan2
| is CHAFAN
| called fan2 by "sensors"
|-
| fan3
| is not available
| called fan3 by "sensors"
|-
| temp1
| is ChipSet
| called M/B by "sensors"
|-
| temp2
| is ???
| incorrectly called CPU by "sensors", but this temp stays low
|-
| temp3
| is CPU
| called temp3 by "sensors", Celeron runs pretty hot; 125 Deg F plus
|}
