{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpainTeam/es|"In Spanish"]]</nowiki>

== SpainTeam, the local community for people from Spain ==

=== Why don't we join "SpanishTeam" instead of creating a new one ===

 The "SpanishTeam" is focused on "spanish language users" whereas our focus is in "users from Spain".

 What's the difference? Well, there are many countries where people use the spanish language, and, while we can have some things in common and can share some tasks, we have some differences too.

 Our purpose is to do things "in the real world", like showing Ubuntu to students. We can translate software to our language and share the files through internet, but we can't travel through internet to visit schools from another country nor another country people can do that to visit schools in Spain.

 We plan to work with "SpanishTeam" when possible, but we need "some space" to do things that can't interest many of the "SpanishTeam" members without interfering the "SpanishTeam" activities and without getting interfered ourselves.

=== Mission ===

 We are focused in promoting Free Software in general and Ubuntu in particular within Spain. To do that we plan to show Ubuntu in schools, with installfests and so on.

=== Members ===

==== Current members list ====

 You can see the current member list in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~spainteam/+members|our launchpad team]]</nowiki>

==== How to join us? ====

 The most important thing is that you colaborate in our events (online or in person) :)
 You could too:
*** Sign up in <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net|launchpad]]</nowiki> and join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~spainteam|our launchpad team]]</nowiki>.
*** Once you have a launchpad account, you have a wiki account too. Fill your personal wiki page and describe there what you can do to help.
*** Additionally, you can subscribe our mailing list to be in touch and know what we are doing.

=== Community Resources ===

*** Website: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-espa単a.org|Ubuntu Espa単a]]</nowiki>
*** Mailing list:
****** Address: ubuntu-es-es@ubuntu.com
****** Archive: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-es-es/
****** Subscription: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-es-es
*** IRC Channel:
****** Server: irc.freenode.net
****** Channel: #ubuntu-es-es
*** Fests and Conferences: We will also be trying to setup booths for Ubuntu at any and all technical events in Spain.

=== Next meeting|event ===

 Please, read our web <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-espa単a.org|Ubuntu Espa単a]]</nowiki> to know the next events :)

=== Our events ===

 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpainTeam/Events|Here]]</nowiki> are all our events.

=== Team Contact ===

 Marcos Costales (<nowiki>[[costales|costales]]</nowiki>)

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
