{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Eventos realizados ====

== 2015 ==
* 16 December: '''Ubuntu bears in Granada'''. <nowiki>[[http://osl.ugr.es/2015/12/10/ubuntu-beers/|Ubuntu bears]]</nowiki>. On the occasion of the visit of Marcos Costales, Ubuntu member to Granada, we will arrange a Ubuntu & casual beers, an event to talk about free software, Ubuntu, and any geek thing.

== 2014 ==
* 22 March: '''Linux & Tapas'''. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-españa.org/content/linux-tapas-le%C3%B3n|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>. We were invited by a LUG. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-españa.org/content/as%C3%AD-fue-el-1er-linuxtapas-de-le%C3%B3n|+ info]]</nowiki>.

== 2013 ==
* 22 November: '''Teeworlds Game Party'''. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-españa.org/content/evento-partida-teeworlds-de-ubuntu-espa%C3%B1a-viernes-22-1930h|Online event]]</nowiki>.

== 2012 ==
* 3 March: '''Ubuntu Global Jam'''. Online Jam. We translated and completed the wiki. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpainTeam/Events?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=log_ugj_2012_march.txt|Log]]</nowiki>.

== 2009 ==
* 20, 21 & 22 November: '''Ubuntu Party''' on Algeciras. Working together to www.linux-sur.org. With installs, videos, games...  No images.
* 24 January: '''Ubuntu Install Party''' on Chapinería (Madrid). With children area, games, Snack Bar, videos and music. <nowiki>[[http://etlared.chapired.com/install_party/install_party.html|Anounce]]</nowiki>.

== 2007 ==
* 6 October: '''Online meeting'''. No log.
* July: '''Course''' of install and use of Ubuntu. Paid by the Junta de Andalucía. No images.
* 16 Juny: '''Online meeting'''. No log.
* 15 May: '''Ubucon Sevilla'''. <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/b/107823382577236804575/photos/107823382577236804575/albums/5715620445734206769|Pictures]]</nowiki>.
