{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/sparc64-stabilization
* '''Packages affected''': hopefully the minimum amount

=== Summary ===

sparc has been recently added as supported architecture to the great portfolio of arches that Ubuntu offers to its users.
This has created a big momentum for this arch that has rarely been seen before in other distro.

=== Rationale ===

The community momentum has unveiled a lot of new bugs and problems in different parts of the distro. Stability and bug fixing needs to address these problems to bring sparc to a higher quality. Our users deserve the best.

=== Use cases ===

Mr John wants to be able to run ubuntu on sparc the same way he does on other support arches.

Mrs Bimbumbam is scheptical about sparc because it's a "new" port and feels less confident to run it on her brand new server.

=== Scope ===

Increasing testing on sparc across ubuntu core developers and create more contact points for sparc developers into the core developer team and MOTU.

=== Implementation ===

* Sponsor some sparc gears to ubuntu core developers.

* Make FabioMassimoDiNitto redundant (since he is basically the only sparc guy in the team and this is NOT ideal)

* Distribute sparc testing across more team guys.

* Create better communication channel between sparc developers (David S. Miller) and the team by meaning of a mailing list or via patches posted trough Malone. The core team would be responsible to fast track patches coming from upstream.

* Reiterate testing results, communication with upstream for fixes and uploads to the archive at will.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* Decide what hardware class should be made available to who.

* Define communication channels with upstream.

----
CategorySpec
