{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-karmic-moblin-remix
* '''Created''': 2009-04-29
* '''Contributors''': EmmetHikory MichaelCasadevall SteveKowalik PaulLiu
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

An out-of-archive one-time remix of Ubuntu will be prepared including the identical set of software as the Moblin 2.0 Release for demonstration and comparison purposes.  This is not expected to be an ongoing release series, but rather a means of experimenting with integration between the Moblin project and other software in Ubuntu.

<pre> comment/dotted
=== Release Note ===

The Ubuntu Mobile Team is pleased to announce the Ubuntu Moblin Remix: the best of Moblin and the best of Ubuntu combined.

Ubuntu Moblin Remix presents the Moblin interface and user experience on the solid base of Ubuntu 9.04, providing a platform for development and experimentation for those interested in the next generation of user interfaces for Mobile computing.

About Ubuntu

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

About Moblin

Moblin is an optimized Linux platform that provides a modern, engaging user experience for mobile devices, such as netbooks, MIDs, and IVI systems. Moblin has a common core of Application and User Interface services and APIs, which provide application developers a rich and consistent development environment across multiple device form factors.

</pre>

=== Rationale ===

Moblin is current, compelling, and cool, but requires a complete reinstallation (or can be run as a Live USB image), and is an RPM based distribution.  As a result, it is difficult to compare Moblin to Ubuntu, and investigate how to better integrate the two.  By preparing a Remix, and comparing the experience, we can better understand how the Moblin software can improve Ubuntu.

=== User stories ===

Alice is a Moblin Developer, who remembers working with Ubuntu as a base for Moblin 1.0, and wants to investigate the compatibility between Moblin 2.0 and Ubuntu.

Bob is an Ubuntu Developer, who has an interest in Moblin, and wants to try a complete solution in a while retaining the familiar Ubuntu base.

Chris is a Mobile Enthusiast, and wants to experiment with Moblin on Ubuntu without worrying about any issues that may occur as a result of interaction with other software.

=== Assumptions ===

* UbuntuSpec:mobile-karmic-moblin2 is complete.
* All Moblin 2.0 software can be compiled against Ubuntu 9.04 (perhaps including some backports)

=== Design ===

This will be a fairly standard derivative remix.

Any necessary additional or upgraded packages will be prepared in a PPA.

A seed collection will be created, defining the correct set of software to be included, and be the basis for metapackages and tasks.

A live image will be generated based on the seed collection.

=== Implementation ===

* Check the difference between private src RPM repo and public src RPM repo
* Copy private PPA stuff to public PPA.
** If the version of package in public RPM src repo and private PPA are same, move it to public PPA.
** If there are newer version in public RPM src repo, uploading it to public PPA.
** If there are new packages in public RPM src repo, uploading it to public PPA.
** If the private PPA contains new version of packages, downgrading those packages and then uploads to public PPA
** If the private PPA contains new package which is not appeared in public PPA, drop it.
* Review patches and push the non-harmful patches to Karmic.
** webkit: DONE (However, nobody is reporting that patch to the upstream. We shoul d find someone to do that or we have to merge it everytime when Debian has a new version)
* Review packages from public PPA and push non-harmful packages to Karmic.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| libccss
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| librest
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| twitter-glib
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| jana
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request Sync
|-
| mux
| <#FF0000> TODO
| No rdepends. Low priority
|-
| bickley
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| mojito
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| clutter-box2d
| <#FF0000> TODO
| No rdepends. Low priority
|-
| clutter-gesture
| <#FF0000> TODO
| No rdepends. Low priority
|-
| clutter-gst
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Karmic is 0.8. Need to update to 0.10.
|-
| clutter-imcontext
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| clutter-qt
| <#FF0000> TODO
| No rdepends. Low priority
|-
| nbtk
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| gconnman
| <#FF0000> TODO
| 
|-
| carrick-ng
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Depends on gconnman, nbtk
|-
| dalston
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Depends on nbtk
|-
| bognor-regis
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| hornsey
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Depends on libccss, bickley, bognor-regis, nbtk
|-
| bisho
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| anerley
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync. Depends on libccss, nbtk. Need to make a patch to build against telepathy-mission-control-5
|-
| libsynthesis
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| syncevolution
| <#00FF00> DONE
| Depends on libsynthesis
|-
| mutter
| <#00FF00> DONE
| 
|-
| mutter-moblin
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-gtk-engine
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-icon-theme
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-panel-applications
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-panel-media
| <#FF0000> TODO
| 
|-
| moblin-panel-myzone
| <#FF0000> TODO
| 
|-
| moblin-panel-pasteboard
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-panel-people
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-panel-status
| <#FF0000> TODO
| Request sync
|-
| moblin-web-browser
| <#FF0000> TODO
| 
|-
| moblin-menus
| <#FF0000> TODO
| 
|-
| moblin-session
| <#FF0000> TODO
| 
|}
* Seeding.
* Test the image.
* Merge bug fixes from private PPA if possible and go back to test the new image.

==== Migration ====

No migration plan exists for users wishing to move to or from the Ubuntu Moblin Remix.  This exists for demonstration purposes only.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

* The resulting image may not be fully Moblin 2.0 complaint (depending on available versions of software, incompatible patches, etc.).
* No special effort will be taken to support installation (although if ubiquity works, it will be included).

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
<pre> comment/dotted

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

</pre>

----
CategorySpec
