{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:win32-image-writer-goals
* '''Created''': 2009-04-23
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/win32-image-writer|win32-image-writer]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

What features do we want to see in win32-image-writer?  The next release will focus on language support, but it would be nice to have some goals beyond that.

=== Release Note ===

Some Ideas include:

* usb drive statistics
* conversion between iso and img, allowing a cd image to be written to usb for booting
* ports
** Linux (obvious)
** Mac OS X
* other ideas? (please add to wiki)

=== Rationale ===

This is an informal brainstorm to come up with ideas to further develop our own in-house tool for other OS users to try Ubuntu images.  Enhancements to this program add a professional touch and give credibility to ease of use claims.  Plus it is just cool.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

Most of the currently proposed ideas can be added by the current project maintainer.  Mac support will require extra help.

==== UI Changes ====

The user interface would need to change a bit to handle some of the ideas presented here.  By standardizing on QT for the interface, the UI design is easier to implement across multiple platforms.

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes for cross platform support and additional features are fairly easy to implement at this time.

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Need outside help to test on other platforms and with a larger variety of removable devices.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
