{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:gfxboot-like-menu-for-mobile-images
* '''Created''': : 2008-11-18
* '''Contributors''': David Mandala, Steve Kowalik, Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''': debian-cd

=== Summary ===

The live images provided for the Mobile flavours of Ubuntu should also have several options at boot time, as with other flavours.

=== Release Note ===

No release note necessary: this is the expected behaviour present in most documentation.

=== Rationale ===

Where it does not directly impact operation, Mobile flavours should strive for consistency with the existing body of documentation, to reduce the effort required by users to understand how to use such systems.

=== Use Cases ===

* Alice first downloads the MID image, and finds that it boots directly into a live system.  As Alice only has 128MB memory on her device, she has trouble running Ubiquity.  Using the boot menu, Alice is able to select a Ubiquity-only installation session.
* Bob is concerned about the integrity of the installation media, due to issues with the live session.  Bob runs the consistency checker, and discovers that the image was improperly created, recreates the image, and is able to use it flawlessly.
* Chris provides support for Ubuntu users, and doesn't want to learn more special cases to handle installation questions.

=== Assumptions ===

* The existing boot menu used on the Desktop live CDs is well thought out and meets all conceivable needs for the Mobile images.

=== Design ===

Migrate the image creation for the Mobile flavours to use the same framework as for other flavours, and ensure the graphical boot menu works.

=== Implementation ===

Adjust debian-cd to also build Mobile flavour images.

==== UI Changes ====

No intentional UI changes: where feasible use the existing UI.

==== Code Changes ====

Add new mobile targets in the Makefiles in debian-cd.  Tweak the Mobile flavour definitions as required to meet this requirement.

==== Migration ====

No migration is required: this only affects image artifacts.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Testing will be done as part of general image testing for Mobile flavour images: no special tests are required.

=== Unresolved issues ===

There are no unresolved issues: implementation was completed before the spec was completed.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

It was decided during the session that we don't need to cover this due to decisions made at other sessions confirming the existing implementation.

----
CategorySpec
