{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-qa-n-loco-testing|ubuntutheproject-qa-n-loco-testing]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': PaoloSammicheli
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Packages affected''': none
* '''Sprint''': UDS-N

== Background ==
* Previous session at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/PromotingLoCoTestingTeams|UDS-M]]</nowiki>
* Lo``Co Testing Team <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/LoCoTeam|HowTo]]</nowiki>
* 

== Agenda ==
=== Maverick data ===
* Report about Maverick cycle.

=== Translating the testcases wiki ===

If we want the LoCo teams to be able to participate in testing, we should provide the testcases in their own languages.
Right now, the problem is that the testcases wiki is a bit difficult to translate, as we have several testcases per page.

We need to modify the structure of the testcases wiki, to improve its translatability. These are the steps involved:

* Copy the testcases wiki content to something like http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/WorkInProgress to avoid breaking the trackers while we create the new pages
* Modify http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/WorkInProgress/* to have only one testcase per page (it can be done by type. i.e. starting only with Install testcases)
* Include the "Translation template" in every testcase (an example can be found at http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Install/DesktopFree)
* Modify the trackers to point to the new testcases

=== Other topics ===
TBD
