{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

The <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> wiki has grown a lot over time. It has pages that are out of date, inaccurate, duplicate information. This confuses new contributors. We are going to fix this by dealing very strictly with it. We'll have definite documentation and will fix namespace issues.

=== Rationale ===

Documentation is our biggest help in getting new contributors started. Having documentation easily available is the most efficient way in sharing our knowledge and learning ourselves.

=== Use Cases ===

Daniel forgot how to use the `quilt` patch system, he searches for "patching sources" and finds the wiki page.

Sébastien finds himself explaining how to do a merge for the third time this month. He simply points the new contributor to the definite guide.

Matt wonders how development processes differ between `main` and `universe`. <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki> answers his questions.

Michael wonders, what the <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> team is about, he checks out the wiki page and finds that it's the team, where Universe development is happening, that it adheres to <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki> and its wiki pages are tidy and easy to read.

=== Assumptions ===

It's easier to learn about <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki> in general. Having two namespaces with different explanations of the same thing make it harder to understand.

=== Design ===

* We will cut down duplication of wiki pages and have definite guides.
* The <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> wiki pages will just explain about very team specific things, like meetings. Lots of information will be in subsections of <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki>.

=== Implementation ===

* We will work down <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CategoryMOTU?action=fullsearch&context=180&value=MOTU&titlesearch=Titel|the list]]</nowiki> and clean up page by page.
* We will tag pages that can be removed as <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTURemove]]</nowiki> and add `<nowiki>[[Include(MOTU/Headers/WikiRemove)]]</nowiki>`.
* We will add `<nowiki>[[Include(MOTU/Headers/WikiMergeUbuntuDev)]]</nowiki>` to pages that need to be moved to <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki> and subsections of it. Maybe we can use <nowiki>[[CategoryProcess]]</nowiki> to better find pages including information that is general and process-related.
** If the documentation exceeds a few paragraphs, we're going for `UbuntuDevelopment/SomeProcessDoc` and link to it from <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki> with a short summary.
** We tag the page with <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUUbuntuDevMerge]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[MOTU/Mentoring]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[MOTU/Documentation]]</nowiki> (and related pages) should go to <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment/Learning]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[PackaginGuide]]</nowiki>.
* We'll add `<nowiki>[[Include(MOTU/Headers/Menu)]]</nowiki>` to <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> wiki pages to give them an official blessing.
* Pages we intend to get merged with the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/packagingguide/C/index.html|Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki>,
** get tagged as <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUUbuntuPackagingMerge]]</nowiki>.
** use `<nowiki>[[Include(MOTU/Headers/WikiMergePackaging)]]</nowiki>`

To sum up the idea in a 'rule of thumb':
* Process and documentation information should be easily findable and avoid the risk of duplication.
* We can stick to names that are well known already, like <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MOTU/School]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[MOTU/Council]]</nowiki> and so on, but they should refer to more general information, where possible.
* The bits that in their core are ''really'' MOTU-centric are very few.

==== Migration ====

We will have redirects from old URLs to new ones.

----
<nowiki>[[CategorySpec]]</nowiki>
