{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-karmic-lpia
* '''Created''': 2009-05-01
* '''Contributors''': Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

The LPIA architecture as implemented in Ubuntu is currently largely synthetic, and heavily based on the i386 architecture.  Discuss the roadmap for LPIA, how this affects the Ubuntu implementation, and any changes in documentation that may be required.

=== Release Note ===

TBD, pending discussion (e.g. if lpia for karmic is not compatible with lpia for jaunty, this needs to be release noted).

=== Rationale ===

LPIA is a rapidly changing architecture, and appears to be diverging from i386.  We need to keep track of the status of this divergence to ensure that the Ubuntu implementation remains compatible with available devices.

=== User stories ===

N/A

=== Assumptions ===

* Further information on the LPIA Roadmap will be available at the time of the discussion.

=== Design ===

Pending discussion: may require modest changes.

=== Implementation ===

TBD.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
