{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:lucid-ubuntu-one-client-app
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntuone-client

=== Summary ===

The goal of the Ubuntu One client application is to move account and management functions from the web onto the desktop so that users have a more unified experience with Ubuntu One (i.e. not jumping from the desktop to the web to perform certain tasks). The full user experience document can be found at http://docs.google.com/View?id=dfkkjjcj_82fb6d42hk for details on the changes to the UI and overall user experience.

=== Release Note ===

The Ubuntu One client application replaces the functionality found in the old Ubuntu One client applet as well as adds Ubuntu One account and management functions previously only available via the web, which includes:

* Joining Ubuntu One
* Connecting a computer to Ubuntu One
* Managing your Ubuntu One account
* Managing your devices connected to Ubuntu One
* Managing Ubuntu One applications used per device

=== Rationale ===

Prior to the Ubuntu One client application, performing tasks like connecting a computer to Ubuntu One, managing your Ubuntu One account, etc. were only available via https://one.ubuntu.com/ which provided a less than ideal user experience.

=== User stories ===

For scenarios and mockups, please see the Ubuntu One client application UX document: http://docs.google.com/View?id=dfkkjjcj_82fb6d42hk

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Ubuntu One client application UX document: http://docs.google.com/View?id=dfkkjjcj_82fb6d42hk

==== Code Changes ====

TBD...

==== Migration ====

N/A

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

N/A

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
