{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:unr-karmic-seeds
* '''Created''': 2009-05-20
* '''Contributors''': Steve Kowalik, Emmet Hikory, Loic Minier
* '''Packages affected''': <code>mobile-meta</code>, <code>ubuntu-meta</code>, some infrastructure

=== Summary ===

Currently seeds for UNR are their own seed pod with the MID seed. This specification is to discuss if we should move the UNR seed out, and if so, where to.

=== Release Note ===

Not needed, no user-visible changes.

=== Rationale ===

With Ubuntu MID moving to a community flavour, it makes sense to move UNR away from the mobile seed pod into it's own, and to update the tools that have the seed location set.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

The UNR seed, which is the <code>netbook-remix</code> file, the <code>live</code> file, and <code>STRUCTURE</code>, will be moved from the mobile.karmic bzr branch into a unr.karmic bzr branch.

Modulo some Launchpad changes, the task can be named <code>ubuntu-netbook-remix</code>, like the meta package is, and <code>livecd-rootfs</code> updated to install that task.

The <code>ubuntu-netbook-remix</code> package will be built from <code>unr-meta</code>.

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

The cdimage code, unr-meta, and any other places that call germinate will need to be taught about the new location of the UNR seeds.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

As long as the meta package is buildable, and the task visible, this should have little to no impact.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* what a seed is?  Discussed to bring everyone up to speed
* proposal to break out a new branch
* UNR seeds -  other issues  How do you test these seeds - there is no user interface to it, it is a plumbing change.
* The concern is  about structure
* This is a nice to have - naming, MID specific , more people have access
* If we do split then we can create another seed gtk desktop common. This only makes sense if we create mobile seed.
* loic - Why do we want to split things out? 
* Steve,Emmit - Nice to have and ???? 
* OGR models are different we won't have access to different packages  (Main,.... )  
* Because of meta pkgs
* Rookery will explode
* 30 pkgs need to included, Check with robbie agree on moving to ubuntu

* find out next step after checking with Robbie

* Open Question -Do we use ubuntu live, or our own live - mobile???

----
CategorySpec
