{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:community-lucid-increasing-lp-translations-dev-community-contributions
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': DavidPlanella

=== Summary ===

This specification aims to define a plan in which we raise awareness on developer community participation to Launchpad Translations, those contributions are increased, and they provide a path for an easier process to future contributions.

=== Release Note ===

The developer community is aware that they can contribute to Launchpad Translations and know how to get started and the process to follow for implementing new features or fixing bugs. We see an increase on community contributions to the Launchpad Translations development.

=== Rationale ===

There are lots of feature requests on Launchpad Translations, which the community could participate in or implement themselves. Launchpad is Open Source software, which makes this possible, but so far there has only been one contribution. 

We'd like to encourage and ease community developer contributions to Launchpad Translations.

=== User stories ===

* Severin has got a project hosted in Launchpad and uses it for translations as well. He already fixed a bug in Launchpad Translations some time ago, but this time he'd like to tackle implementing a new feature he thinks would be beneficial for managing his project's translations. After reading the developer documentation on Launchpad Translations on lp.dev, he's ready to start on this noble task.
* Mikel has been an Ubuntu translator for quite some time, and he's familiar with Lauchpad Translations features and quirks. Over this time he's collected a list of pet peeve bugs he'd like to see squashed at some point. He's familiar with Python development, and after having read in some Ubuntu communication channel that Launchpad is Open Source and about the procedure to contribute to the Translations component, he puts on his developer hat and starts fixing them.

=== Design ===

The main areas of focus will be:

* Reviewing and if necessary expanding the current developer documentation on Launchpad Translations development
* Raising awareness through the social media on how to contrbute
* Identify and target a set of easy tasks (e.g. trivial bugs) for interested community members to work on and gather and document the feedback

=== Implementation ===

The following actions have been identified for driving the implementation

* [danilo] Provide a list of trivial bugs (https://bugs.launchpad.net/rosetta/+bugs?field.tag=trivial)
* [dpm] add more information to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Launchpad about developing Launchpad Translations
* [dpm] Organize Ubuntu Developer Week session with the Launchpad devs about developing for Launchpad Translations
* [dpm] Review documentation on Launchpad Translations development on lp.dev with danilo
* [adiroiban] Fix a bug/add a new feature (not something big) to Launchpad Translations
* [adiroiban] After fixing the bug, make a BIG announcement and encourage new developers. Let them know that this can be done ... and it is not that hard
* [danilo] Help adiroiban to install lp.dev and then add last-updated column into the +templates page
* [adiroiban] Do a write up of how it went, and what it involved.
* [akgraner] Send an e-mail to dpm on getting the word out on UWN, Fridge, Full Circle Magazine, Ubuntu User, etc.
* [dpm] Work with akgraner on an interview or series of interviews on developing for Launchpad Translations
* [dpm] Contact the user who fixed the first bug in Launchpad Translations to see whether he'd be interested in participating in this round of interviews.
* [dpm] Talk to mrevell about developer documentation on lp.dev and spreading the word on blog.launchpad.net
* [dpm] Follow up the discussion on letting users know how blueprints should only be used for features the community want to implement themselves, talk with danilo.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

UDS session notes:

<pre>
== Increasing community contributions in LP Translations development ==

* LP focus is upstream integration
* Any other feature requests will not be serviced by LP team due to lack of time
* We want those interested in new features to develop them!
* Only one contribution from an upstream project maintainer

=== Problems ===

* Community starting from zero
* Most translators are not technical and can't develop
* There are some technical translators who could help
* Some developers complain but don't know they can help
* Getting LP up and running is not as easy
* There are people who might be interested in starting to develop, but don't know how to start

=== What is there already ===

* dev.launchpad.net
* #launchpad-dev on FreeNode, launchpad-dev mailing list on launchpad.net
* blog.launchpad.net syndicated into planet.ubuntu.com

=== Actions ===

* get a list of trivial bugs (https://bugs.launchpad.net/rosetta/+bugs?field.tag=trivial) (Danilo)
* added information to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Launchpad about developing Launchpad itself, can be elaborated
* get a better reference/sample database (like staging)
* fix a bug / add a new feature (not something big) and then make a BIG announcement and encourage new developers. Let them know that this can be done ... and it is not that hard
** UWN, Fridge, Full Circle Magazine, Ubuntu User - David to contact Amber on getting the word out
* Idea: develop a simple "hello world" app, even a screencast people can start on

* ACTION: Adi/Danilo to install lp.dev and then add last-updated column into +templates page
           Do a write up of how it went, and what it involved.
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
