{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-karmic-alt-desktops
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Review light-weight desktop engines for Mobile images on systems that lack openGL support.

=== Release Note ===

With the wave of new systems hitting the market soon, not all systems will have drivers released in time to support our standard MID and UNR environments.  Reviewing light-weight alternative environments will benefit OEM's and users of systems at release time.

=== Rationale ===

Getting drivers in a timely fashion has been troublesome at best.  Some drivers (PSB, Intel graphics, Armel) have either been non-existent or unstable at release time, creating more workload for QA testing due to sluggish or non-responsive desktops, and turning off customers from using our images.  By having alternative images with light-weight desktop engines available, we can better support the entire spectrum of systems on the market now or coming soon.

=== User stories ===
From <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/netbook-remix/+bug/344443| bug #344443]]</nowiki>:
Slow/slugish UI in netbook-launcher happens both on livecd and when installed. CPU and memory usage were low. I'm attaching a video that shows what I was seeing, and yes it was really that sluggish, not just the video capture.

The system has an Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

Do we need to design a new desktop interface or are there existing interfaces that will work?

===== Existing environments to review =====
* Mer
** decision made at UDS to work with Mer team at community level towards Karmic integration
* LXFE
* Others? 

==== Code Changes ====
** Possible checks in UNR to switch off clutter if GL support unavailable.
** If not above, modify gdm startup script to test for GL support and launch appropriate WM

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===
* Easiest way to test is to disable dri in /etc/X11/xorg.conf and reboot.  Other methods could involve switching to the vesa driver.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
