{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-setup-wizard
* '''Created''': 2008-11-21
* '''Contributors''': Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-meta, livecd-rootfs, debian-cd, oem-install, 

=== Summary ===

There should be an install option for the Mobile images (both MID and UMPC) that allows user-customisation post-install to better support OEM rollouts and similar use cases.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu MID and Ubuntu Mobile now supports oem-setup for post-install customisation in multiple install environments.

=== Rationale ===

With growing interest in Ubuntu MID and Ubuntu UMPC for form-factor specific devices, it is likely to improve adoption by OEMs or hardware customisation firms if there is an available post-install wizard for user customisation.

=== Use Cases ===

* Alice buys a MID with Ubuntu preinstalled, and uses a setup wizard to set language, timezone, location, username, and other personalisations at first boot.
* Bob works at an IHV and wants to mass-install a run of 10,000 UMPCs for distribution to end users without expecting security issues from common usernames and passwords.
* Chris runs an import/export/reseller business, and wants to provide customers with Ubuntu preinstall images suitable for redistribution.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

oem-config shall be provided in the distributed images, to enable preinstallation with limited configuration.

=== Implementation ===

Except as discovered during testing, oem-config is not expected to be modified.

==== UI Changes ====

Where UI elements are unsuitable for low-resolution displays, adjustments to the interface shall be considered to ensure appropriate fit.

==== Code Changes ====

For an initial effort, no significant code changes are expected, other than as required to support the UI changes detailed above.

==== Migration ====

This will be an entirely new feature, and no migration is expected.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

A test case for MID oem-config install will be prepared for image testing, closely mirroring that for other oem-config installs.

=== Unresolved issues ===

No effort has been taken to determine if the set of questions appropriate for MID users matches that appropriate for desktop users.

Ther are no special-case data collection efforts for MID-specific applications.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* People want to be able to set up on their device on first boot -- this interests people like OEM.

* oem-config exists, and does a lot of it. What do we want in terms of UI for it?

* Questions were too technical or missing?
** Questions need to be customized

* Keyboard layout
* Where are you? / * Timezone
* Username / Password

* needs theming
* questions asked (sometimes too many or sometimes not enough)
* frontend?

* Some questions need to be deferred
** location/timezone based on IP address when you connect for the first time

* oem-config runs as user 999 in a custom Xorg session; we could extend this session to be a full GNOME session with NM, GPM etc. and use these in an oem-config-gnome to smooth the installation and skip more questions

* It is pre-seedable

* Now that we are using debian-cd, it should "just work"

Add additional hooks? For example, setting E-mail to Gmail

* OEM uses oem-config-gtk
** asks these questions
** Location
** Language
** Keyboard layout (preselected based on language and timezone information)
** Name / username / password
** autologin
** doesn't run UNR -- why?
** runs fullscreen

* oem-config-hildon for the MID image; perhaps very close to oem-gtk for now and optimized for small screens (timezone map for instance)

----
CategorySpec
