{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:ubuntu-arm-p-virtualization-solutions
* '''Created''': 11/16/2011
* '''Contributors''': Michael Casadevall
* '''Packages affected''': qemu, kvm

=== Summary ===

The ARM Cortex-A15 will support hardware virtualization for the first time. ARM and other server partners are working to make KVM usable on these new SoCs. As part on the LTS plan for ARM, we intend to enable A15 devices with the 12.04 point releases; as such, this spec will target the point releases, and have the necessary preparation work done during the precise development cycle. SRUs will be used to add any additional bug fixes or compat code.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu 12.04 includes the basic support for KVM on ARM on supported SoCs. Images for these SoCs will be made available after hardware is generally available .

=== Rationale ===

As ARMs into both a general server platform, and low-power usage cloud base, virtualization has become a top priority. As A15 hardware will be enabled through point releases as part of the normal LTS cycle, we want to land any and all available code during the development cycle with the end result that once percise is available for A15 hardware, it simply works.

=== User stories ===

* Alpha is building an ARM based cloud, and requires solid virtualization software
* Beta is an Ubuntu developer, and wants to have multiple versions of Ubuntu side-by-side for testing

=== Assumptions ===
* That KVM for ARM will be available during the percise development cycle.

=== Design ===

Until we know the full scope of patches for KVM on ARM, this section is incomplete.

=== Implementation ===

Until we know the full scope of patches for KVM on ARM, this section is incomplete.

==== Migration ====

None, new code.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Existing KVM testcases should be used to validate KVM/arm as it should be roughly equivelent to KVM/x86.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
