{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:netbook-launcher-accessibility
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Clutter, and the netbook-launcher built on it, currently lack support for accessibility. Adding support for this would help users who need this feature, and also provide the necessary infrastructure for testing it with automated gui testing frameworks such as ldtp.

=== Release Note ===

Support for accessibility is added to the netbook-launcher interface.

=== Rationale ===

Accessibility enablement for netbook-launcher would provide support for assistive technologies as well as providing the necessary hooks for automated testing.

=== Use Cases ===
Edmund uses a screen reader to work with his netbook.  The netbook-launcher interface allows him to navigate with the help of a screen reader.

Peter tests daily releases of Ubuntu Netbook Remix on multiple different netbooks.  He uses LDTP to automate testing of the netbook-launcher.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===
For reference: http://lists.o-hand.com/clutter/2275.html

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this.

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
