{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-lucid-lpia-future
* '''Created''': 2009-11-05
* '''Contributors''': Steve Kowalik, Michael Casadevall, Emmet Hikory, Ian Lawrence, LaMont Jones
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

The state of the lpia architecture in Ubuntu was started in the Gutsy timeframe, and has always required significant resources to keep up-to-date. It has been discussed three times at three seperate UDSes about removing it.

=== Release Note ===

Starting with the 10.04 release of Ubuntu, lpia support has been removed. Users are encourged to use i386.

=== Rationale ===

Due to the significant resources required by many parties to keep lpia up-to-date and functional in Ubuntu, it has been decided to drop support for it.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Not needed.

=== Implementation ===

lpia will be disabled and have no new builds dispatched for lucid. Current releases will continue to have security support supplied.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's hard to test something that has been removed.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Bootstrapped in the Gutsy timeframe, built for i686. It has been discussed three times for removal.

Currently, LP does not allow binary rebuilds. lpia is non-maintained, it still requires resources

Strongest argument for keeping it at the last cycle was it was too hard to re-bootstrap

ian_brasil would like to keep it, due to the i686 only build

lpia uses the lpia_wrapper which adds -Os to all arches

If we use lpia for Atom, it's harder for things like Skype, etc to install

We don't lose any hardware support by dropping it

The chroots get dropped from the buildds, and LP gets told that lpia for lucid doesn't exist

----
CategorySpec
