{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page lists the roles which exist inside the <nowiki>[[Specs-KarmicInstallationGuide|Installation Guide]]</nowiki> team, and the responsibilities associated with each of those roles.

== Roles ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background: skyblue"> '''Role'''
| '''Team member'''
| '''IRC handle'''
| '''Twitter username'''
| '''identi.ca username'''
|-
| Project manager
| PhilBull
| philbull
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/philipbull|philipbull]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/philbull|philbull]]</nowiki>
|-
| Editor
| DB Cummings
| badenochs_ghost
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/badenochs_ghost|badenochs_ghost]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/badenochsghost|badenochsghost]]</nowiki>
|-
| Writer 1
| AugustinaBlair
| missaugustina
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/mmmpork|mmmpork]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/missaugustina|missaugustina]]</nowiki>
|-
| Writer 2
| Avi Hein
| ?
| ?
| ?
|-
| Writer 3
| Kelvin Gardiner
| KelvinGardiner
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/KelvinGardiner|KelvinGardiner]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/KelvinGardiner|KelvinGardiner]]</nowiki>
|-
| Technical reviewer
| Adam Hathaway
| ahathaway21
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/ahathaway21|ahathaway21]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/ahathaway21|ahathaway21]]</nowiki>
|-
| User testing manager
| Nathan Handler
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/nathanhandler|nathanhandler]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/nhandler|nhandler]]</nowiki>
|}

There is a team on Launchpad for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-installation-guide|Installation Guide]]</nowiki>.

=== Project Manager ===

The project manager will be the one who is ultimately responsible for the project - if something goes wrong, it's their fault. Responsibilities include:

* All of the dirty work behind the scenes, such as setting up bzr branches, fixing up the toolchain and handling licensing.
* Liaising with other teams.
* Providing advice to any team member who wants it, on any topic.
* Setting deadlines and deciding on which features should be included.
* Providing feedback on the progress of the guide as it develops.
* Handling any concerns or grievances that any team members may have.

=== Editor ===

The editor is responsible for the quality and consistency of the content. Their responsibilities include:

* Selecting or writing a style guide, and ensuring that all material follows the style guide.
* Making sure that the material is written in good English - spelling, grammar and punctuation must be perfect, and material must be well-structured.
* Continually giving constructive feedback to the writers on their work.
* Reporting on the progress of the guide to the Doc team.
* Integrating the content into the structure, once it has been written.
* Making sure that the content follows the design specification and is targeted at the right difficulty level.

=== Writer (x3) ===

The writers are tasked with creating the content that users will actually read, based on the best information and advice handed to them by other team members.

One writer will work on the troubleshooting section, producing short, self-contained problem-solving topics. Two writers will work on the rest of the guide. Responsibilities include:

* Reading and following the style guide chosen by the editor.
* Working with other team members to decide what content should be written.
* Writing useful, relevant content, which is easy for users to understand and use.
* Marking-up content once it has been accepted by the editor.

=== Technical Reviewer ===

The technical reviewer is the master of all things quality-assurance. It's their job to make sure the released guide is perfect. Responsibilities include:

* Checking that every instruction is correct.
* Checking that there are no bugs in the guide, such as broken links and missing, stub or orphan sections.
* Making sure that the guide is suitable for its intended audiences (i.e. pitched at the right level, easy to read, containing useful information).
* Pointing out any errors, omissions or irrelevant content.
* Making sure that the guide is valid XML.
* Checking that the guide is culturally sensitive.
* Checking the formatting and layout for problems.

=== User Testing Manager ===

The user testing manager is our link to the people who will actually use the guide. It's their job to figure out who our users are and what they want from the guide, and to make sure that the finished product is actually helpful to our target audience. Responsibilities include:

* Observing users trying to install Ubuntu and reporting back on common problems and questions that they have.
* Developing user "personas" which are representative of the major user groups targeted by the guide.
* Providing information on the priorities of different tasks for different personas.
* Searching user assistance channels (e.g. mailing lists) looking for common problems that users are experiencing, and recommending which of these should be addressed in the guide.
* Finding out how users can make best use of the guide, in order to inform our choice of delivery method.
* Testing finished sections of the guide with different user groups to identify deficiencies and test its effectiveness.
* Making sure that the published guide is easy to access.
