{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Created''': 2014-06-26 -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki>  * '''Contributors''': `dholbach`
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

We would like to give teams the opportunity to give their events, stories and news more exposure. <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com|Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki> is a good place for this. It'll get more eyeballs on global activities and inspire others.

=== Rationale ===
Some teams don't have a blog registered on Planet Ubuntu, because some of their active team members aren't Ubuntu members yet or because they don't know how, etc.

=== Implementation ===
Currently the 
* homepage feed on <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/|LTP]]</nowiki> uses only hand-picked blogs, so we can export that to planet ubuntu and that should be enough oversight to keep inappropriate things out.
* team admins can manage their team's aggregation, but the homepage uses a separate selection.
* teams can add any feed they want to their team, but then the LoCo Council can tag a feed to appear on the homepage as well
* no teams can't add their RSS feeds rightnow, only LC can

Plan:
* No blogging is done on the LTP, but elsewhere.
* Aggregation happens within the LTP, aggregated LTP feed is then <nowiki>[[PlanetUbuntu#Adding_Your_Feed|added to Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.
* In this first iteration, we'd like to do simple aggregation and re-feeding to planet which wouldn't involve copying or editing.
* Optional: generate an RSS feed for events and meetings, that would automatically be published to planet.
** Feed shows any events or meetings that have already happened or are happening soon

==== UI Changes ====
Additional fields for feed(s) per team need to be added.

==== Code Changes ====
The items above should be filed as <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-team-portal|bugs on LTP]]</nowiki>. We will then schedule some hack days to work on this.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===
* Do at least a month of testing before adding it to Planet Ubuntu. We want to see how much traffic this is going to generate.

=== Unresolved issues ===
* Can we ensure that the Code of Conduct is observed? Are we just going to mention this in the UI somewhere and leave it to the LoCo contacts/admins' discretion?
* If we use one feed, will Planet understand that it's content from different authors?

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
<nowiki>[[irclogs.ubuntu.com-2014-06-20-%23ubuntu-meeting.html|Meeting log]]</nowiki>

Additional ideas:
* If content gets too much, maybe we could do a monthly digest.
* Split the planet in 2 tabs: Members | Teams. (Official team content vs. content from members of the team.)
* Can we enable team owners to moderate the content?
** team members could write up something and team contacts/admins could approve this as content which goes out to everyone? Harder to manage, as per-feed is easy, doing it per-post would require more work in LTP, because the aggregator library we're using doesn't give us access to the data easily.
* Give the user permissions to add other users based on request.
* As part of the copying that takes place as part of aggregation, we could probably add thing like
** jump marks (read more →here←) or 
** digests (weekly LoCo roundup or something)

----
CategorySpec
