{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-unr-karmic-wubi
* '''Created''': 2009-06-02
* '''Contributors''': Steve Kowalik, Agostino Russo
* '''Packages affected''': <code>livecd-rootfs</code>

=== Summary ===

This specification is to discuss how much work it is to include Wubi functionality into the UNR images so that users can use Wubi to install UNR on their netbooks.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu Netbook Remix can now be installed using the Wubi installer, allowing Windows users to try Ubuntu Netbook Remix.

=== Rationale ===

Wubi is a great way for people to install from Windows, and providing this functionality for UNR sounds like a good win.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

Due to other specifications, namely, building UNR as an ISO, this spec is much simpler.

<code>livecd-rootfs</code> requires modification to add casper-lupin to the LIVELIST, and the <code>netbook-remix</code> seed needs <code>lupin-support</code> added.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

UNR should be able to be installed from Windows.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* Target getting Wubi/UNR testable by Alpha 2

Now that we are using Ubuntu CD IMage build system, should be fairly close to 
being able to use wubi
1. Need casper-lupin added to LIVELIST
2. Need lupin-support added to the seed
3. .disk/info
4. metalink file on the server side
5. Swapfile (not partition) is needed
6. 7zip is needed to extract files in the initrd
   - simplifies things if we use an iso instead of image

If image can be loopback mounted, vfat image should be ok

Downloaded Wubi is different from the version that ships on cd, if UNR wants to 
be considered in the downloaded version of Wubi, it must be added to the list

Might consider using livecd image plus persistance
 - harder to migrate to the installed system if we do it this way though
 - uses more resources on the cdimage server, we are pretty constrained wrt.
   image size, only .img *or* .iso is an option atm.
   
Any issues with shipping on smaller devices?
1. fragmentation could be more common
   - Possibly recommend defragmentation to the user prior to install?
2. More swapping possibly, due to smaller ram
   - what about wearing out the SSD (in case the device uses one) if much 
     swapping occurs ?

Compatibility between Wubi and USB-creator
 - Bug that is preventing this right now
 - Works if ISO is kept intact rather than extracting
 - Look at using mtools to extract if on linux

Need to add test cases and mention to QA about Wubi 

Other considerations:
1. Will we produce .iso or .img for future UNR versions?

----
CategorySpec
