{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

what would make Ubuntu's life easier?

turn it round; what would make Python folks recommend Ubuntu?
* automatically build new Python modules from PyPI into "pyuniverse" (<nowiki>[[Spec/PyUniverse/PyUniverse]]</nowiki>)
** (or universe)
** packaging as much as possible is on the Ubuntu to-do list
** some automated tools for this available
* act like a Python equivalent of CPAN
* some kind of "trackback" equivalent so that distributions can notify PyPI when modules are packaged
* also build logs

discussion and demonstration of PyPI
* python-setup.py register

don't want distributions backporting features
* probably not a problem since we generally support multiple versions of python

having a distribution where all the Python modules you want are pre-packaged and just work is incredibly useful

possibly track release candidates (Debian do this already)
* mechanism to feed information on current packages back for publishing on python.org
* part of our python packaging release process?

query about uploading python bug-fix releases to stable-updates
* we don't do that with GNOME
* still a possibility? backport security fixes though

Zope has been the cause of many Python bug-fix releases

many changes in 3.0 will be in the area of imports
* provide solution to standard library versus external module conflict

Scott: is CamelCase standard in Python?
* answer seems to be generally "not particularly"

suggest Ubuntu put a Python style guide on the wiki
* we did this, there was a brief WikiWar

mdz: does it matter what Python modules in the default install?
* as long as the full standard library is there (and maybe the setuptools too), don't care
* setuptools will end up in distutils eventually

package up shtoom
* various other external dependencies which would be useful, such as pyalsa

Include ipython and have a link to it

----
CategoryArchive<<BR>>
CategorySpec
