{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-karmic-freescale-desktop
* '''Created''': June 23th, 2009
* '''Contributors''':  Michael Casadevall
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-desktop, ubuntu-cdimage

=== Summary ===

This specification tracks the status of support for the Freescale Babbage board for the Karmic 9.10 cycle.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu 9.10 has extended support to the Freescale Babbage2 Board. Babbage1 support has been dropped.

=== Rationale ===

The Babbage2 board is the next generation of the iMX51 platform, is the target hardware for FSL for this cycle.

=== Requirements for Implementation ===

* 2.6.31 series kernel for iMX51 Babbage2 lands in Ubuntu git tree
* redboot (or uboot) sources for the Babbage2 materialize, and are merged into the redboot-imx package in the archive.
* Additional hardware for testing and debugging becomes available

==== Code Changes ====

* ubuntu-cdimage
   - Needs to be updated to use need redboot-tools -OR- if we move to u-boot this cycle, modified to create uboot images
   - Descriptions need to be updated for TO2 support
* linux kernel
   - Current codedropped from FSL have support for 7 SoCs, we only support fo the iMX51
   - Latest kernel only 2.6.28, kernel team needs to fowardport to 2.6.31
* debian-installer/base-installer
   - Subarchitecture detection will have to be updated to detect the Babbage2's /proc/cpuinfo string
* flash-kernel
   - Subarchitecture detection will have to be updated to detect Babbage2 in addition to Babbage1
   - Will need update to new redboot-tools or uboot-tools depending on the state of bootloader support
* iso.qa.ubuntu.com
   - Will need to be updated for imx51 for karmic (requires RT ticket filed, should be done after we have images building)

==== Migration ====

* No migration will be supported from Babbage1 to Babbage2. Depending on kernel support, Babbage1 support may remain in 9.10 in an unsupported state

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Normal ARM/Desktop image test cases can be used to test image.

=== Unresolved issues ===

* Lack of development hardware for the team (total of four Babbage2's available)

----
CategorySpec
