{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Beyond Web Service Office Zoho ==

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+spec/arm-m-webservice-office-integration-part-2
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': JamieBennett
* '''Packages affected''': webservice-office-zoho

=== Summary ===

The need for a light-weight solution for office tasks is needed for people who simply do not what to use Open Office (or its alternatives) or where its use is too resource intensive. Providing a web-based solution is desirable.

Since the Lucid release there exists an initial implementation using Zoho's web services called webservice-office-zoho. Currently, webservice-office-zoho is integrated into the UX to allow users to open documents locally and remotely and also launch the service with an empty document (of type presentation, spreadsheet, text-based document). This implementation could be expanded to provide more functionality.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===
==== Useful links ====
* Zoho Viewer API - http://apihelp.wiki.zoho.com/Zoho-Viewer-APIs.html
* Zoho Remote Agent API - http://apihelp.wiki.zoho.com/Save-Document.html#RemoteAgent
* Google Docs API - http://code.google.com/apis/documents/overview.html

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== Discussion Points ====
* Web Services
** How can we improve Zoho's current implementation?
** Alternative services? (Google, others?)
* Enhancements
** Ubuntu One integration?
** Document back-up/save to.
** Share documents.
** Use Zoho's remote agent API?
** http://apihelp.wiki.zoho.com/Save-Document.html#RemoteAgent
* User Interface
** Custom browser to launch the services?
** Remove window chrome, just bare window.
** Stand-alone app with embedded webkit view?
 
----
CategorySpec
