{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:packaging-section-on-the-forum
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
The promotion of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=44|Package forum]]</nowiki> on the Ubuntu Forums with share support of this forum between MOTU and forum staff.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

* Packaging section is way more used than the mailing list

=== Use Cases ===
Forum user notatroll wants to learn to how to package softwareX.

=== Assumptions ===
* Any change in the forum structure needs to approved by the Forums Council.
 
=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===
* Possiblity of some approved MOTUs to moderate the packaging forum.
* Scott Ritchie (YokoZar) has volunteered to moderate the forum
* Provide a link to the forum in the MOTU IRC subject topic
 
==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== Meetings notes ====

 1. http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=44 (hidden section right now)
** use stickies on the wiki, mentioning:
** FAQ
** PackagingGuide
** Ubuntu Development
** Contributing patches
** how to become a MOTU
** mentors mailing list
** announcement of Q&A sessions
# proposal: make it part of the mentoring process to let motu hopefuls answer motu posts
# gateway: send stuff to motu mentors (currently ~90 messages per week)
* 
* 

----
CategorySpec
