{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:arm-library-optimization
* '''Created''': 2009-01-20
* '''Contributors''': Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''': TBD

=== Summary ===

There are significant improvements in performance for newer variants of the ARM instruction set: in order to ensure acceptable performance on newer hardware, core libraries must provide optimised code paths.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu ARM includes support for ARMv5t+ instruction sets, with optimisations available for ARMv6, ARMv7, and VFP routines where appropriate.

=== Rationale ===

Newer instruction sets include optimisations that significantly improve performance on newer chips.  To ensure the best possible user experience, Ubuntu should be optimised to ensure that executed routines are optimised for the installation platform.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
