{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-image-build-documentation
* '''Created''': 2011-04-22
* '''Contributors''': Michael Casadevall
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Provide meaningful and easy documentation on how to create new images using livecd-rootfs, debian-cd, and ubuntu-cdimage.

=== Release Note ===

No release note: this does not affect end-users in any way, and those few developers who are affected will need the information before the release, making the release note no longer necessary.

=== Rationale ===

These is no clear overview documentation of the image building system, causing confusion to each new person approaching it, and leading to frustration by people attempting to support new products.

=== User stories ===

jmarsden and gilir are the main developers behind Lubuntu, a new flavour of Ubuntu.  At present they have a hand-crafted shell script to build their ISO, which works for a 32bit LiveCD, but is a little awkward, and has issues with 64bit ISO generation, does not create alternate installer CDs, etc.  Lubuntu would much prefer to use official Ubuntu standard ISO build processes, but it is not clear how do to so, or how to learn how to do so.

(Note: This Lubuntu story is a '''real''' use case, and we will gladly help test this as the documentation process gets under way!)

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
