{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:qa-maverick-improve-iso-tracker
* '''Created''': 
* '''Contributors''': apulido 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Several activities require improvements to the ISO tracker. This specification is an umbrella for all those requirements. 

=== Release Note ===

TBD

=== Rationale ===

During UDS Maverick, several users of the QA tracker recommended a set of improvements to the tracker in order to be able to better perform this activities.

=== User stories ===

* Charlie is a regular contributor to ISO testing. Sometimes he mark a test as Started, and then realizes that it wasn't the one he wanted to start. There is no way to unmark a test.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

==== Admin interface ====

For <nowiki>[[Bug:436450]]</nowiki> we need a very basic interface. To begin with, it would be enough to have the ability to add new images and new testcases. The deletion and modification is currently out of scope and could be added in the future. 

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

* <nowiki>[[Bug:579155]]</nowiki>: In the result page, there is need of a new button "Delete result" to delete the user's result for that particular testcase.
* <nowiki>[[Bug:291089]]</nowiki>: A new filter "Not Completed" needs to be added to the web UI.

==== Code Changes ====

* <nowiki>[[Bug:579155]]</nowiki>: A "delete result" method needs to be added.
* <nowiki>[[Bug:578349]]</nowiki>: A small fix to trim spaces needs to be added.
* <nowiki>[[Bug:524368]]</nowiki>: A script needs to be written to generate the data.
* <nowiki>[[Bug:291089]]</nowiki>: qatracker_buildlist function needs to be changed to filter by "not completed"
* <nowiki>[[Bug:507950]]</nowiki>: qatracker_buildstat needs to distinguish between started and not started. The started ones need to be shown somehow.
* <nowiki>[[Bug:495373]]</nowiki>: The report needs to be updated to the new images and reflect optional testcases.

==== Data Changes ====

* <nowiki>[[Bug:582180]]</nowiki>: A small change in the database is needed. Filters are data based.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
