{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:improved-power-management
* '''Created''': ArnaudQuette
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

This specification deals with the Power Management in general for Jaunty.

Its focus is specifically on integrating and providing to the users the latest technologies in the field, still in the Ubuntu way (accessible, simple and powerful).

These technologies are:

* DeviceKit-power
* Network UPS Tools 2.4
* PowerMan

=== Release Note ===

TBD

=== Rationale ===

TBD

=== Use Cases ===

* Ethan is a Data Center admin. He is managing thousands boxes. He needs electrical reliability and manageability, so he uses Power Distribution Units (PDUs) to remotely power on or off the nodes, and cycle the frozen systems. His infrastructure also includes a big 200 KVA UPS, with a 2 communication links (1 USB, and 1 SNMP). He wants to be able to shutdown earlier a bunch of secondary systems, to gain more runtime for essential systems. He finally wants his systems to be shutdown cleanly upon UPS' Low Battery status, and to be powered on automatically when the power is restored.

* Benjamin is a home user: he owns a full set of home appliances, including a NAS, a PVR with network / DLNA capabilities, a communication module (router +DSL/cable...+wifi AP+...), a DLNA HD TV, ... all these are running an embedded Ubuntu system. He owns a small UPS, with USB communication, that powers these various devices. He simply wants to Plug the USB comm. cable into one of these devices, which will propagate the UPS service, and get everything working.

* Sooba is traveling a lot, and has an Ubuntu laptop. She wants improved runtime, reliable and cute hibernation, and fast boot/shutdown time. A simple intuitive UI is required to adjust the few behavior parameters.

* Jim has a desktop system, with a USB enabled UPS. He wants the same Integrated Power Managed as Sooba, with nothing to install or configure.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
