{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-unr-karmic-application-res
* '''Created''': 2009-06-05
* '''Contributors''': PaulLiu
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

<pre> comment/dotted
This should provide an overview of the issue/functionality/change proposed here. Focus here on what will actually be DONE, summarising that so that other people don't have to read the whole spec. See also CategorySpec for examples.
</pre>

There are some applications don't fit the screen of netbooks. We'd like to fix those applications to make them fit. Also we'd like to work with the upstream to reduce the future maintaining efforts for those applications.

=== Release Note ===

<pre> comment/dotted
This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.
</pre>

* Some UNR apps have been modified to better fit small screens.

=== Rationale ===

<pre> comment/dotted
This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.
</pre>

* If an application doesn't fit into screen, some buttons and/or text are not being seen. Then the users might think that application doesn't work.
* QA from OEM vendor also do test on usability test.
* Resolution bugs are not specific for this cycle. It's a long-term job because the applications are many and new applications are made.
* Application should be fit in 1024x576. Better to be fit in 640x480 which most Microsoft applications fit in that size. Also we might have 1280x525 LCD in the future.

=== User stories ===

* Alice bought a netbook from market and then she download and install Ubuntu UNR. Because Ubuntu UNR is already fix the resolution issues, so it fits better than other OS.
* Bob bought a netbook from brand and it is pre-installed Ubuntu UNR. He won't need to make phone calls complaining about the application resolution problem.

=== Assumptions ===

* Resolution issues are hidden in many applications, until we seen it, it is hard to be detected.
* Patch made for package maintainer and upstream should be different because the purpose is different. For package maintainer, the patch should be as small as possible because it's easier for update. For upstream, the patch should be good and without dirty hacks.
* Application should be fit in 1024x576 with 96 DPI. Hardware reports wrong or large DPI makes the application doesn't fit is not counted in this spec.
** We need an default DPI for measurement. Because large DPI value will result each characters in the application too large and no way to fit into the screen.
** 96 DPI is a good choice because many 1024x600 netbook LCD are physically 96 DPI. Some 1024x576 LCD are physically 72 DPI but the hardware vendor will set it to report 96 DPI to OS because 72 DPI font is too small which is unreadable.

=== Design ===

<pre> comment/dotted
You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.
</pre>

* There are already some patches made by OEM team.
** List of patches that should be take care: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/UNRKarmicApplicationResolution/UpstreamStatus|UpstreamStatus]]</nowiki>
** Refine it and send it back to the upstream.
* Find out more application resolution issues.
** <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-unr-karmic-compliance-autotesting|UNRKarmicComplianceAutotesting]]</nowiki> can be used to find out the resulution bugs.
** Fix it in Karmic.
** Report a bug on upstream.

=== Implementation ===

<pre> comment/dotted
This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:
</pre>

==== UI Changes ====

<pre> comment/dotted
Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this
</pre>

* Make changes to Ubuntu packages in Karmic UNR. (short-term)
** Only when we found an application in Karmic UNR which doesn't fit the small screen.
** We should avoid modifying glade files. UI changes are better to be in code for easier maintainance.
** Due to package maintainance issue, we can avoid too many delta by just adding simple scrolled bars.
** Scrolled bars should not be inside another scrolled bars.
** Patches to package should not interfere the original outfit for large resolution screens.
** Open a bug to notice upstream that the application has issues with the small screen.
* Send patches to upstream. (long-term)
** We should avoid just send the scrolled bar version to the upstream.
** Re-design the UI is better.
** Avoid code modification if that belongs to glade files.
** If necessary, we should discuss with UI design team.
** Refine the patches until upstream accepted.

==== Code Changes ====

<pre> comment/dotted
Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.
</pre>

* Make changes to Ubuntu packages. (short-term)
** Patches should be maintained by patch system, like quilt.
** Code example
<pre>
if (gdk_screen_get_default() != NULL &&
    gdk_screen_get_height(gdk_screen_get_default()) <= 600) {
  /* do some small resolution customization here */
}
</pre>
* Send patches to upstream. (long-term)
** Do any kind of patch. But the patch should be graceful, elegent and the upstream is happy to accept it.

==== Migration ====

<pre> comment/dotted
Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.
</pre>

* Old spec link: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/JauntyUNR|Specs/JauntyUNR]]</nowiki>

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

<pre> comment/dotted
It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.
</pre>

* For testing, we have another spec on how to test the application automatically. It's the mainly bug sources for this spec. https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-unr-karmic-compliance-autotesting

=== Unresolved issues ===

<pre> comment/dotted
This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.
</pre>

* Anjal, the GUI front-end for Evolution, is now in Karmic. We need testers to test it.
* Low-hanging fruits like Firefox/Thunderbird patches should be directly forwarded to upstream

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

In UNR Jaunty - there were patches for application resolution provided by OEM team
* Need to get upstream
** Prepare <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/UNRKarmicApplicationResolution/UpstreamStatus|list]]</nowiki> of patches, check if they are upstream
** Send them upstream if they are not
* See which applications in UNR still don't fit resolution requirements
** Firefox - get certificate dialog
* Create wiki page that shows screenshots about why it's important, examples of how to fix it properly, raise awareness to the problem
** not a one size fits all solution
** there are valid best practices that can be described though
* Evolution was patched in haste
** to do it right would be very complicated
** investigate Anjal as a better interface for UNR
* [action] write wiki page
* Low hanging fruit
** settings we can change for applications that will make that application fit better

----
CategorySpec
