{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:lubuntu-lucid-default-applications
* '''Created''': 2009-10-25
* '''Contributors''': Julien Lavergne
* '''Packages affected''': lubuntu-desktop

=== Summary ===

This spec is about updating default applications for Lubuntu.

=== Release Note ===

The update of default applications will affect users of Lubuntu Live-CD, and the applications installed by default when someone install Lubuntu on his disk.

=== Rationale ===

Since the last choice was done, programs changed and more people can give their opinion about applications by default. Also, with the release of the lubuntu-desktop package on Karmic, there will be additional feedback from the community and end-users.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== General plan ====
Current plan is to stay with the list we have in Karmic cycle. If application need to be changed, a discussion will be open to see if we need to change it and by which application. 

==== Plan ====
Action Items:
* Determine areas not currently covered in Karmic seed that still need to be addressed
** Image manip (gimp for ship cd)
** Scanner app (gscan2pdf for default apps? gimp recommends dependency)
** Image viewer (
** A splash before login manager (usplash or plymouth if ready)
** Tasks manager (LXtasks not in archive, use xfce one ?)
** Clipboard manager, C/P not possible if the application is closed (parcelitte ?)
** Language selector (existing language-selector need to be ported to not install GNOME stuff)
** Calendar support (for events)
* Add to seed: lxdm, lubuntu-artwork, lubuntu-default-settings
* Applications that need discussion :
** Office Suite (Open Office) (change to ship vs default)
** Browser (firefox)
*** heavy weight app
** Video Player (smplayer)
*** requires qt
** Connection Manager (wicd)
*** Like: verbose, clear about connection process & result, can do +1 user
** E-mail client (sylpheed)
** Instant messaging (pidgin - lots of gnome dependencies, maybe alternate build)
** Bluetooth (gnome stack vs lighter version)
* Vote on identified items, with discussion on mailing list/wiki page
* Make a IRC meeting to decide the applications list.
* Update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications and summarized explanation of some choices. The goal is to make a reference when people will say « I want this by default »
* Update the seed and upload to the archive.

==== UI Changes ====

No specific UI changes, except the changes of the applications.

==== Code Changes ====

* Update the seed (https://code.launchpad.net/~lubuntu-desktop/ubuntu-seeds/lubuntu.lucid)

==== Migration ====

First version of lubuntu-desktop was mostly a prototype, so any migration is not needed for Lubuntu Lucid.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

* Test cases will be part of the packaging policy spec.

=== Unresolved issues ===

Nothing for now (2009-10-25)

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

'''Items discussed during the UDS'''

'''Goal''': How to decide which applicaion will be installed by default

'''Criteria Suggested:'''
* pure gtk, not layered toolkits
* start from existing list of apps (from Karmic) and address as change request

'''Changes in seed:'''
* Determine areas not currently covered in Karmic seed that still need to be addressed
*** Image manip (gimp for ship cd)
*** Scanner app (gscan2pdf for default apps? gimp recommends dependency)
*** Image viewer (
* Add to seed: lxdm, lubuntu-artwork, lubuntu-default-settings
* Applications that need discussion :
*** Office Suite (Open Office) (change to ship vs default)
*** Browser (firefox)
*** heavy weight app
*** Video Player (smplayer)
*** requires qt
*** Connection Manager (wicd)
*** Like: verbose, clear about connection process & result, can do +1 user
*** E-mail client (sylpheed)
*** Instant messaging (pidgin - lots of gnome dependencies, maybe alternate build)
*** Bluetooth (gnome stack vs lighter version)
* Vote on identified items, with discussion on mailing list/wiki page
* Make a IRC meeting to decide the applications list.
* Update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Applications and summarized explanation of some choices. The goal is to make a reference when people will say « I want this by default »
* Update the seed and upload to the archive.

* Applications to install by default and application to ship on the CD (example OpenOffice)

'''Action Items'''
* Schedule IRC meeting regulary (1 a mounth)
* Next meeting : discuss about the application list
* Goal : have a seed ready for alpha 1 (approuval for Realease Team)

'''Criteria Suggested'''
* pure gtk, not layered toolkits
* start from existing list of apps (from Karmic) and address as change request

'''By default vs Shipped on the CD'''
* Applications to install by default and application to ship on the CD (example OpenOffice)

----
CategorySpec
