{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:qa-m-mago-simplification
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': jtatum
* '''Packages affected''': mago

=== Summary ===

Adding applications to the Mago library is cumbersome. To foster the creation of more test cases, we will discuss ways to make this easier.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* Eliminate the try/catch block around each LDTP call
** Improvements to logging
** Change to use a framework to assertions
* Mechanism for repeated test cases with random data

==== Gobby notes ====

Current problems

* Strings are part of the test (but this will be covered as part of mago-i18n)
* Exceptions
** Logs for mago:
** Fail: exception + screenshot
** Pass: it just shows "pass"
** Expand the logs with python logger to include more information (not only pass/fail)
** Change the stylesheet to add error/info/debug information
** Wrap LDTP:
*** It might add too many layers
*** Filing bugs against LDTP2 to fix wrong or useless messages
** XML is awful
** Getting rid of it
** Call a generic method within the py file, and have n tests calling the generic
** Configuration file tries to avoid duplication
** ACTION: move to a python testcase definition (jtatum)
** Assertion
** We should be using pyunit
** Or at least having some assert methods
** Everything is data driven
** We should allow writing simple tests
** We should take into account that a new library might get in
** Add "accerciser" as a suggested package of mago
  
  

----
CategorySpec
