{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-lucid-arm-webservice-for-office
* '''Created''': 2009-12-02
* '''Contributors''': David Sugar, Alexander Sack
* '''Packages affected''': openoffice.org, ubuntu-netbook-edition [arm], ubuntu-weboffice-wizard

=== Summary ===

This spec defines how google gdocs can be integrated on the default UNE install for ARM.  This is necessary because openoffice performs poorly on ARM for UNE (and desktop), and that there is no suitable alternative in the repository.  The user, on selecting office or opening an openoffice document for the first time, will be presented with the choice of installing either an openoffice application suitable for the document type (writer, presenter, etc) or to setup gdocs as a webservice.

=== Release Notes ===

The UNE image for arm now comes with out-of-the-box Google Docs integration.

=== Rational ===

On arm we often face performance and memory wise constraints that justifies reviewing applications for use cases supported by Ubuntu ARM live images. OpenOffice is one of those applications which is challenged on ARM.  Offering the option to select and integrate gdocs was considered an option for ARM UNE users at UDS.

=== Design ===

On first use, user will be presented a dialog to select either to install an openoffice module (based on the filetype selected) or enable gdocs integration.

If user selects gdocs, a mime handler that connects to gdocs applications will be installed.  Otherwise the specific openoffice application module will be installed, using apt-get, and used as normally.

=== Implementation ===

This may have an implementation similar to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/Mobile/Lucid/WebserviceIntegrationEmail.  It is currently proposed there would be a separate wizard for each major openoffice document type (spreadsheet, write, presentation), though a single chooser wizard could be used which offers all three choices, and gives the user the option to select openoffice and gdocs, or that does so for all three categories together.

The main challenge is if the user does choose gdocs, how do we handle mime integration and file browser launching.  Three possible solutions have been suggested:

* Let the user open gdocs when selecting the document, and have the user manually import and convert it. 

* Auto-import office documents when it is selected using libgdata, with the browser opened to the directory where the converted file lives and gdocs started, perhaps replacing the original document with a link to avoid having different versions that fall out of sync.

* import on first click to the mounted documents folder workspace.  Afterward the document would be opened through the browser from the import location and used there.  If the user clicks on the mounted documents folder, it would of course work there directly as well.

=== References ===
* gvfs prototype backend for libgdata (gdocs) git://github.com/thiblahute/gvfs.git
* bug about chromium html5 protocol hander integration (probably not needed, as this is a way for webapps to register themselves and we make this on a desktop/mime level) https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=29651
