{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/checkbox/+spec/qa-m-checkbox|qa-m-checkbox]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2010-04-20
* '''Contributors''': Marc Legris
* '''Packages affected''': checkbox, checkbox-editor

=== Summary ===

This spec is for testing improvements to make checkbox more robust and easier to use.

=== Release Note ===

End-users would have a testing adapted for different situations of laptop, netbook, nettop, and desktop testing with checkbox.

=== Rationale ===

Current users of checkbox are frustrated with some limitations in checkbox. The main drive behind this spec is to make a testers job easier and less time consuming.

==== UI Changes ====

===== Left hand pane addition =====
* contains a tree-like structure for displaying all test hierarchy (ie same as checkbox-editor)  
** tree item has indicator (pre-test): valid check (will the test be run/skipped? have all dependencies been met?)
** tree item has indicator (post-test): test status (pass, fail, N/A)

===== Menu additions =====
** import project plan
** bzr sync test cases, media and scripts from PPAs
** test cases would be combined with the default checkbox testcases
** open test cases, media and script directories

==== Expanding Checkbox ====

===== Tester Environment =====
* Addition of tester added variables (IE "desktop/laptop")
** Ability to use these variables for dependency checks in testcases

===== Pretest =====
* All automated test scripts that do not need user action
** After each test case, results would be saved
** Tester would be shown which automated test is running (not just "information gathering")

===== Test results =====
* After each test case, results would be saved
** If checkbox is restarted after a partial run, it should remember where the tester left off

===== Result submission =====
* Testers can review test cases, and log bugs at this point
* Offline option given (if user does not have connectivity, save results separately)
** On subsequent runs, if offline results are detected, give an option to send these results

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarizing what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

== UDS notes == 

offline reporting
improve algorithm n^2 for tests
command output to checkbox (overview of information gathering to user)
comments on bugs enhanced
----
CategorySpec
