{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-karmic-data-sync
* '''Created''': 2008-04-29
* '''Contributors''': Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''': TBD

=== Summary ===

As the Mobile flavours of Ubuntu are increasingly used by those with multiple computers, a convenient means to synchronise mail, RSS reader history, some documents, browser bookmarks, stored media, and other information should be available.  This ought be optimised with the expecation that a system with Ubuntu Desktop installed has greater available local storage than a system with a Mobile flavour installed.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu now supports synchronisation of mail, RSS reader history, browser bookmarks, and documents between multiple computers, for improved integration of the MID Edition and the Netbook Remix with an Ubuntu Desktop environment.

=== Rationale ===

Maintaining consistent data between multiple machines represents signficant overhead in user effort.  The provision of a data synchronisation service allows users to have a more seamless experience, and encorages use of Ubuntu on mobile devices for users of Ubuntu Desktop.

=== User stories ===

Alice is reading an RSS feed over breakfast on her laptop.  Before leaving for work, she syncs with her MID.  She is then able to continue reading on her MID on the train without needing to identify which articles she has already seen.

Bob spends much of his day away from his desk, and routinely checks mail on his Netbook.  When returning to his desk, he syncs with his workstation and and is able to use the larger screen without loss of context.

Chris discovers an exciting new website from a billboard, and previews it on a MID.  After returning home, the MID is synchronised with a workstation, and the website can be investigated in more depth.

=== Assumptions ===

* One of the sync frameworks already in Ubuntu is capable of host-to-host sync, rather than requiring a specific PDA- or phone- or media-player- interface.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
