{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-iso-images
* '''Created''': 2008-11-21
* '''Contributors''': Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu Mobile and Ubuntu MID currently provide USB images. WIth the advent of USB creator, and as some users have trouble with USB images, ISO images should be provided.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu MID and Ubuntu UMPC are now also available in .iso format.

=== Rationale ===

.img and .raw extensions are confusing to users, and require special documentation.  Further, the creation of such formats requires special workarounds in the image building scripts.  This adds to the maintenance overhead for image management.

=== Use Cases ===

* Alice wishes to hand out 100 copies of the Ubuntu MID installation.  She downloads the ISO file, and burns to CD, saving money on USB sticks.
* Bob's UMPC has an optical drive, but doesn't boot off USB.  Bob burns the iso file onto CD and installs.
* Chris needs to boot off USB to install Ubuntu MID, and uses the usb-creator program to generate a USB bootable installer from the ISO image.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
