{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-ubuntu-one-keyring-sync|lucid-ubuntu-one-keyring-sync]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Sync the browser's keyring with the gnome keyring, and sync the gnome keyring to other computers.

=== Release Note ===

This work allows users to have their passwords available on all their computers without having to enter them every time.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== gobby notes ===

* both the desktop keyring (gnome keyring, kwallet) and the firefox "keyring"
* using desktopcouch
* some keys can't be synced (such as the u1 auth token)
* if opt in, we lose users (end-users)
* if opt out, we lose users (corporate or security-enhanced users, but only if
   we replicate to ubuntu one)
* not for applications to use directly, apps should still use the keychains,
   and we pull from there

things we agree to:

* it's a very compelling idea
* we can't store it in plaintext
* we generate a random key, and then encrypt it multiple times with each of
   the machines login keys or whatever (especially whatever)
* pull out the keys into a file, encrypt the file, sync that
*** sync desktop keyring(s) and firefox passwords (and possibly public gpg and ssh keys)

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
