{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:ubuntutheproject-community-n-developer-advocacy
* '''Created''': -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dholbach]]</nowiki>  * '''Contributors''': dholbach, persia, jml, duanedesign, czajkowski, kate.stewart

=== Summary ===

=== Release Note ===
By creating presentation material and featuring common development use-cases we make it easier to reach out to new contributors interested in Ubuntu development.

=== Rationale ===
One piece of feedback we get from new contributors at events regularly is "If I had known that it was this easy, I would have got involved much earlier!". We want to create presentation material that makes a solid impression on new contributors and gets them excited.

=== User stories ===
Rick wants to give a presentation at a local event. He browses the list of presentations, reads the notes and is up and running quickly.

Daniel wants to give a presentation at a German global jam event. He finds a German presentation, quickly reviews it and is fully prepared.

=== Implementation ===
To create the material, we
* first figure out the plot for possible presentations
* identify necessary background material that should be explained
* update the presentations again with that material (UbuntuSpec:ubuntutheproject-community-n-development-outreach-resources should help with that)
* ask proof-readers to double-check
* talk to translators for feedback and translated versions
* will identify overlap between developers and !LoCo people and talk to the particular developers about the presentations
* will create a screencast

=== Test/Demo Plan ===
During the UDS session we identified proof-readers for the presentations, also will we ask translators for feedback.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
<pre>
Who is our audience?
* Developers new to Ubuntu?
* People new to development in general?

One suggestion:
** what is an ideal package?
*** we need to figure out what it is; we don't really have a shared 
      understanding
*** useful to show new Ubuntu developers
*** but maybe the wrong starting point

Common use cases:
* "I know some stuff, I want to help Ubuntu -- how do I start?"
* "I am a l33t programmer, how can I get my software packaged?"
* Ubuntu Development Beginnings wiki https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Devbeginnings
  On this wiki, cover/link to things like:
    - How to join Launchpad
    - How to create SSH & GPG keys
**** Quickly has work-in-progress to automate this
    - How to get source
    - How to submit a patch
*** how to push back to launchpad
*** How to use Launchpad to propose merging
    - Putting these steps together to fix a bug (ie. link to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToFix), build, test, submit bug fix
    - How to use Quickly
    - How to install Eclipse (and other IDEs)

Two parts:
* If you only had an hour to talk to someone who doesn't know *anything* about
   Ubuntu development, what would you say?
* Actively demonstrate how to fix a bug, or how to work on a package.
  - targetted to a more technical audience, people who roughly now how a 
    distribution works.

Demos:
 - grab source
 - build & run source (without breaking your system)
 - modify the source
 - propose fix for inclusion
 - test case
 
* GNOME/KDE Applet for clicking on a window and having the source downloaded?

introduction material:
 - basically just "how to fix a bug"

 - packages
   - source & binary
 - archive?
 - command line
 - editing text files

how to reach out:
 - put introductory text on ubuntu.com/developer
 - help people get the source and instructions (menu item?, applet?, link in launchpad bug?)
 - presentation material for loco sessions
 - identify overlap between ubuntu developers and loco people

Action items:
persia and jml to work on a demonstration script + notes
dholbach to identify necessary background material
duane to work on screencast
czajkowski to set up a frontdesk for loco + developer interaction
dholbach to work on presentation material
dholbach to ask translators
kate to do neutral read of documentation
</pre>
----
CategorySpec
