{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''(This is a draft ... for now)'''

This page is ment to provide a high level overview of the specs and features
owned by the ARM/Mobile Team for Lucid (Ubuntu 9.10). For a time based perspective on these targets/opportunities, please check out our <nowiki>[[Specs-Mobile-Lucid-Schedule]]</nowiki>.

=== Foundations (Performance etc.) ===

==== armv7 toolchain ====
In Lucid ubuntu will start optimizing code for the armv7 architecture. While this means
that older SoCs are then unsupported we expect this change is to have a considerable
impact on performance and resource consumption due to the improved instruction set
supported on those new arm boards.
** Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-gcc-v7-thumb2
** Prio: Essential

==== powermanagement per SoC ====
Powermanagement is a crucial feature for mobile devices, hence work is done on
improving powermanagement support for all supported SoC: TBD
** Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-per-soc-powermanagement
** Prio: High

==== boot time analysis/improvements ====
The mobile team also investigates opportunity for improving startup time. For that
there will be improvements to casper that will allow us to create bootcharts and
gather more detailed information about where time is lost during arm boot.
** Spec: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-une-casper-speedup
** Prio: Medium

=== Developer Tools ===
==== rootstock GUI ====
To improve the situation to build custom images using ubuntu as a foundations, we add a GUI to the
rootstock script we shipped in karmic. Customizing will also become easier/more flexible by adding
support for extra apt mirrors and injection of custom .deb packages during the rootfs creation.
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-rootstock-gui
* Prio: Medium

==== qemu-static for more architectures ====
Based on our experiences from allowing users to use qemu-arm-static to setup arm chroots and execute
binaries, there is work in progress to also ship this feature for other architectures.
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-multiarch-execution-environment
* Prio: Low
 

=== Imaging and Shipment ===
==== uboot ====
In Lucid timeframe we aim to unify our bootloader used across SoCs. For that we are
moving towards uboot by default, which was already used in karmic for the dove platform.
This will open up potential to unify the uboot code, getting one step closer to unified
image production for all supported SoC.
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-imx51-debian-cd-to-uboot
* Prio: Essential

==== device tree ====
An important opportunity this cycle is ongoing work for arm device-tree support in the kernel;
this would open up new ways of shipping unified single images for all SoCs - hence reducing
QA and customization efforts on the Ubuntu platform as well as OEM side.
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-device-tree-support
* Prio: High

==== alternate installer ====
Lucid will be the first release that ships a alternate installer based image for arm, while
improving the experience of our live image even further.
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-alternate-images
* Prio: High

==== ext2/3 filesystem support ====
Another opportunity investigated is to improve image creation utility to move towards
more modern filesystems in future. Currently investigated filesystem format is ext2/3
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-ext-images
* Prio: Medium

==== soft bootloader ====
Having a common softbootloader usable across SoCs will help unifying the image build process
even further. Hence, work is ongoing to make this happen. However, this potentially requires
coordination with multiple parties, which is why this is only tentatively targeted for Lucid
* Spec: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-softboot-loader
* Prio: Low

=== QA Efforts and Procedures ===
==== armv7 library testing ====
Due to the move towards armv7 we will establish a system to verify libraries produced by
our rebuilds. This will help us to spot regressions introduced by the switch of compiler
flags and might be handy for future release cycles too.
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-lib-tests
* Prio: High

==== stardardized bringup testing ====
Also work is done on standardizing the procedures for bringup testing of new hardware/mobile
products. Besides the general benefit for ubuntu QA processes, having this procedure in place
is also helpful in supporting communication with vendors about the features
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-bringup-testing
* Prio: High

==== suspend/resume QA ====
To ensure highest reliability for supported SoCs and products wrt to suspend-resume, work
is done on improving standard testcases for suspend/resume; automating or semi-automating
those in checkbox will probably also benefit other ubuntu products
* Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-suspend-resume-testplan
* Prio: High
 
==== all-pairs image testing ====
To achieve an overall higher test coverage work is done to extend the current image
testing procedures by adding a continuous effort to test image installs using
parameters generated using the all-pair method
* Spec: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-efficient-install-testing
* Prio: Medium

=== UNE and application choices on ARM ===
Our default image will come with an optimized set of applications to address resource,
performance and form factor constraints faced on our target devices.

Its important to mention that regardless of what changes we take for our default apps,
the previous apps will still be available for install and downstreams and OEMs can pick
them instead of our defaults.

==== 2D launcher ====
A new 2DLauncher will allow us to ship a high quality UNE experience by default for all supported
SoCs. This will redefine and help us to unify the user experience we can ship on arm out
of the box.
** Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-une-2d-launcher
** Prio: Essential

==== browser support ====
On the browser front we look at improving firefox performance by moving towards thumb2
and PGO optimized builds. The other browser we are actively trying to get integrated in
time for lucid is chromium-browser. Whether we switch to chromium-browser by default
will be decided based on performance comparisions as well as other factors defined in
the spec.
** Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-lightweightbrowser
** Prio: High

==== web service integration ====
On top of our browser efforts we are are actively exploring new ways of integrating
web services for mail and documents into the default UNE for ARM experience. In best
case this would allow us to get rid of heavy-weight applications openoffice and evolution.
Shipping Thunderbird-3 or a on-demand feature for mail and office applications is also
investigated. Decision pending for alpha-2
** Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-application-choices
** Prio: Medium

==== media playback ====
The other area where we are exploring is the current application for media playback; the main
target for reconsideration is rhythmbox and totem; suggested alternatives are banshee and
canola; we are exploring both options and will decide based on the results.
** Spec: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-arm-application-choices
** Prio: Medium

==== lxde support ====
lxde is a community effort to ship a real lightweight desktop image, which would
also be interesting for mobile devices and arm in particular
** Spec: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/mobile-lucid-lxde-goals
** Prio: Low
