{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:lubuntu-lucid-artwork
* '''Created''': 2009-10-25
* '''Contributors''': Julien Lavergne
* '''Packages affected''': lubuntu-default-settings, lubuntu-artwork ?

=== Summary ===

Actually, Lubuntu didn't have a specific artwork. This spec describe how to implement an original theme so Lubuntu can be visualy recognized.

=== Release Note ===

End-user can recognize Lubuntu with an original artwork. We will also try to improve the user experience by providing an artwork provided by the community. 

=== Rationale ===

Lubuntu need a visual identity, so people can recognize it easier. 

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

* Setup a wiki page for people who want to propose Artwork.
* Make some advertising about the need of an original artwork for Lubuntu on forums, blog posts etc ...
* Organize a vote/feedback.
* Around Artwork freeze, make an IRC meeting to decide which theme we take.
* Update the package and upload to the archive

==== Collect artworks ====

Set-up a page on the wiki so people can post their artwork, example https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Lucid

==== Advertising ====

Advertise the need of a good artwork :
* Ubuntu Forum : http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=16
* LXDE forum : http://forum.lxde.org/viewforum.php?f=13&start=0
* Art team mailing list : ubuntu-art@lists.ubuntu.com
* Planet Ubuntu (gilir will posted something about Lubuntu Lucid)

==== Code Changes ====

Update lubuntu-default-application, or split it in a lubuntu-artwork package. Settings and artwork are mixed together in lxde-common package, following the same policy artwork and default settings should be in the same package.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Usual testing, report bugs against lubuntu-default-settings or lubuntu-artwork.

=== Unresolved issues ===

Nothing for now (2009-10-25)

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

'''From UDS:''''

* Introduction of Lubuntu:
** Light-weight desktop environment
** based on LXDE components plus some apps to fulfill a desktop environment
* Currently Lubuntu wallpaper and artwork is not perfect.
* We should have a seperate package for artwork instead of patching existing LXDE packages. Work is already done, waiting to be publish on the archive
* Default LXDE theme is blue. We might want orange theme for Lubuntu. Possibly inherit Humanity icons from Ubuntu or Gnome-Colors Human?
* Learn from Kubuntu? Blue theme/icon theme
** Pick a suitable icon theme among existing icon themes. Suggesting Tango style icons.
* Part of the artwork from the upstream can be re-used.
* We need someone to lead the process of the artwork crafting.
* Ubuntu art community.
* We need gtk theme, icon theme, wallpapers, and usplash theme.
* Window manager is openbox. Many Beautiful themes exist. However, creating a new theme is desired. See CrunchBang and other Openbox artwork for the openbox part.
* What is inside lubuntu-artwork package? Wallpaper, icon-set.
** We can split the package for different kind of artwork.
 
'''Action Items'''

* add lubuntu artwork package to lubuntu seed once published
* See if we have already a complete artwork ready made by the community
* See all piece of artwork we need
* Get in touch with Ubuntu Art Community for advises
* Two Camps: Blue and Orange. Which one? Need to take decision before work start
----
CategorySpec
