{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-hardware-support
* '''Created''': 2008-11-21
* '''Contributors''': Emmet Hikory
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

The MID and UMPC images were originally targeted at specific hardware. As they have become more generalised, and gained more users, it is interesting to see what hardware runs these flavours, and what specific drivers appear to be missing for commonly available devices.

=== Release Note ===

No release note required: this is purely a discussion topic.

=== Rationale ===

There's a variety of subnotebooks, netbooks, UMPCs, MIDs, Mobile Internet Tools, Internet Tablets, and PDAs capable of running the UMPC and MID flavours.  By reviewing what people have, what devices are most common, and who can test what, we can better identify the set of hardware for which there are sufficient resources to provide first-class support.

=== Use Cases ===

N/A

=== Assumptions ===

Certain devices are more popular amoung users of the Mobile flavours than others.

=== Design ===

N/A

=== Implementation ===

Depending on the hardware showcased, and what devices are reported to work or not work, various actions will be taken, possibly including:

* Registration of test cases for milestone testing
* Kernel targets for hardware enablement
* Additional UI elements to support various hardware devices
* Bug filing against existing tools identifying discovered issues

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

No specific testing is mandated by the discussion.  If warranted, some hardware may generate milestone test cases to ensure functional support.

=== Unresolved issues ===

None

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
