{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/qa-maverick-laptop-testing|qa-maverick-laptop-testing]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': SergioZanchetta
* '''Contributors''': PaoloSammicheli
* '''Packages affected''': none
* '''Sprint''': UDS-M

=== Summary ===

"Laptop Testing" is a community-driven project started with Lucid Lynx Alpha 3.
Our goal is get Ubuntu working great on as many different makes and models of laptops as possible, mainly testing point releases of the development cycle.

This could be done both in all the Community and !LoCos, sharing hardware info about Laptops to avoid duplicates and trying to attract as many new contributors as possible.

Project has been started by the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-testing|Italian LoCo Testing]]</nowiki> team on launchpad.
It's organized at moment with <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest|Wiki pages]]</nowiki>, a <nowiki>[[http://liste.ubuntu-it.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/gruppo-test|Mailing List]]</nowiki> and an IRC channel #ubuntu-it-test.

In the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing|Testing Team Wiki page]]</nowiki> this project is reported under <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities|Activities]]</nowiki> along with an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop|English page]]</nowiki>.  

In this session we would like to discuss how to improve this project.

== AGENDA ==
=== Feedbacks from Italian Team, QA team and casual contributors ===
* laptop tested.
* how many people filed a report.
* how many of them have never contribuited before to Ubuntu
* how results have been reported.
* laptop reports using wiki.
** problems and limitations.

=== Suggestion to improve the project ===
  
** build a test tracker for laptops (?)
** use also checkbox to collect hardware data (synergy with hwdb) (?)
** queries and reports (per user, laptop model, components)
** a sort of "fuzzy" system (like translations) handling the same hardware(Vendor ID/Device ID) on different laptop.
** use of tags in bug reports
** add testcases and improve existing cases as well linking them to automated tests where possible.
** try to involve other !LoCos in the project.

== Gobby Notes ==
=== Information ===

* Home Page
** http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop

* Home Page (it)
** http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/GruppoTest/TestPortatili

* Test Cases
** http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Plans/LaptopTesting

* Template
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop/Reports/Template
** It is worth to have a look to hug-day (under ubuntu-qa-tools package or lp:ubuntu-qa-tools)

* Reports
** http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop/Reports

=== Feedbacks from Italian Team, QA team and casual contributors ===
* Started from Lucid Alpha 3
* Laptop tested.
** 49
* How many people filed a report:
** 40 people, 10 of them are from the Italian community and 7 of them are also active members of the Italian Testing Team.
* How many of Italian Testing Team members have never contributed before to Ubuntu:
** 3 people
* How results have been reported:
** 12 against Karmic, so not as requested.
** 37 against Lucid
** 17 of them useless (for various reasons: bugs not reported to Launchpad, not tested using milestone template etc.)
** 20 ok.

=== Laptop reports using wiki ===

* A lot of problems and limitations. (unstructured data, no data validation, difficulties in filling a report)

* Suggestion to improve the project
** We need a tool to automate reporting process:
** build a test tracker for laptops (?)
** Checkbox
** Reporting
** use also checkbox to collect hardware data (synergy with hwdb) (?)
** queries and reports (per user, laptop model, components)
** a sort of "fuzzy" system (like translations) handling the same hardware(Vendor ID/Device ID) on different laptop.
** use of tags in bug reports
** add testcases and improve existing cases as well linking them to automated tests where possible.
** try to involve other LoCos in the project.
	 
* There is no use of tags, and that could be a nice improvement
* Create a new set of tests (if necessary) and package into a PPA

=== Action Items ===
* Converting testcases into checkbox tests (jcollado) - (DONE) Script available in this launchpad <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~javier.collado/+junk/tc_import/|branch]]</nowiki>.
* Planning how to have users see and work with the data submitted
* Looking integration via isotracker via checkbox (Ara)

----
CategorySpec
