{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-lucid-lsb-compliance
* '''Created''': TobinDavis
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

This testing is to ensure that applications developed on other systems will function on Ubuntu without major changes.  Applications built towards the Linux Standards Base libraries should function similarly across all distributions without issues.

=== Release Note ===

This release of Ubuntu has been tested to meet most/all of the compliance requirements of the Linux Standards Base version 4.0, as defined by the Linux Foundation.  

=== Rationale ===

Third party applications are built against a standard set of libraries.  By testing to insure that Ubuntu releases are compliant with these standard libraries, we can validate to customers that their applications will work with minimal adjustment.

=== User stories ===

The Alpha Company has developed the greatest application for Linux ever.  They are using an in-house developed distribution to do all of their development work on.  To enable the world + dog to use their new application, they test it for LSB compliance and apply for certification from the Linux Foundation before releasing their product to the world.

Little Jimmy wants to run the new application from The Alpha Company, but doesn't use the distribution they used for development.  After reading that Ubuntu is certified to meet LSB compliance, he downloads and installs the new software package for his hardware, confident that it will run on his system.

=== Assumptions ===

This assumes that all drivers and libraries needed for the test systems will install without issue.  Issues with hardware drivers (i.e. Sound or Video) will cause some tests to fail (ex: OpenGL).

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

Two systems are currently setup to run as dedicated test platforms; one is running Ubuntu x86(IA32) Desktop, the other is running Ubuntu x86_64 (AMD64/EM64T) desktop.  Most of the testing is automated, and runs for >24 hours.  Only a handful of tests are manual, and don't need to be run until closer to release.

==== UI Changes ====

Only changes in the underlying api's should be required as the LSB specification doesn't cover full UI implementation.

==== Code Changes ====

Changes may include adding symbolic links to provide api compatibility with newer shipping libraries, or the ability to install older libraries in a non-conflicting maner.

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Following each iso release, testing for LSB compliance should happen within 24-48 hours, with the results posted to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/LSB4.0TestResults|LSB test results]]</nowiki> page as soon as they are ready.

Beta, RC, and Final testing should be done during ISO release testing, so that issues can be resolved prior to release.  Manual tests can be run at this time.

=== Unresolved issues ===

Full 4.0 compliance may not be achievable based solely on the test result data, as several libraries are newer than the spec and unresolved issues remain with in the spec tests   Due to this, compliance wavers for specific tests may be needed.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
