{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:mobile-unr-karmic-other-arches
* '''Created''': 2009-06-02
* '''Contributors''': Steve Kowalik, Loic Minier, David Mandala, Michael Casadevall
* '''Packages affected''': None, infrastructure only

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu Netbook Remix is currently only spun for i386; it is only installable on non-i386 by using a netboot installer and selecting it from the task list, or by installing the ubuntu-netbook-remix package on an already installed system.

=== Release Note ===

Ubuntu Netbook Remix is now available on all architectures in addition to i386.

=== Rationale ===

* Alpha is an end-user has a 64-bit capable netbook, and wishes to use Ubuntu Netbook Remix/amd64 on it
* Beta is an OEM, and wishes to ship an ARM based netbook
* Delta wishes to develop for UNR on his ia64 based desktop

=== User stories ===

=== Implementation ===

* livedcd-rootfs builder crontabs need to be modified to build on all architectures excluding lpia which is all but officially dead
* ubuntu-cdimage crontabs need to be modified to attempt to build UNR on all arches vs. i386 only

==== Migration ====

* No migration, this is new support

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

* Image to be added to the ISO tracker, and tested via normal UNR methods, plus any architecture specific methods.

=== Unresolved issues ===

* Is UNR and all its build dependencies available on all architectures?

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* No gobby doc found
----
CategorySpec
