{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:awn-integration
* '''Created''': 2008-08-22
* '''Contributors''': Julien Lavergne
* '''Packages affected''': avant-window-navigator, awn-extras-applets, human-icon-theme, evolution, firefox

=== Summary ===

Provide a better integration of avant-window-navigator (Awn) on Ubuntu, by installing plugins, theme and configure options to match Ubuntu default installation. Correct others package affecting the use of Awn (like icons themes).

=== Release Note ===

The user will have a better "out-of-the-box" installation of Awn on a default installation of Ubuntu. This include :
* Plugins which interact with the bar like changing the icon of Rhythmbox by the cover art, counting the number of unread mails etc ...
* Default installation including some launchers for default application, basic applets ...
* Svg icons for all default application because it's needed to display a nice icon on the bar.

=== Rationale ===

Awn have great possibilities to integrate nicely with GNOME desktop, but it's now not enable after the default installation. This could a better experience for users if some customization was done "out-of-the-box".

=== Use Cases ===
Neil have many cover art for his music and would like to see them on his Awn bar.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

There is 3 main parts :

==== Ubuntu Awn packaging ====
Action on the avant-window-navigator and awn-extras-applets package on Ubuntu.

* Provide a custom configuration to match Ubuntu default installation
** Launchers
** Applets
** Setting(s)
** Theme(s)

==== Other Ubuntu packaging (or Upstream) ====
Action on others package of Ubuntu.

* Provide all svg icons for default applications & applets : submit bug to human-icon-theme
** Launchers/Tasks
** gnome-app-install
** apps/system-file-manager
** Tracker
** software-properties
** ...
** Applets
** application-exit (for Quit applet)
** ...

* Submit plugins upstream and/or in Ubuntu packages
** Pidgin
** Rhythmbox

* Create new plugins and submit them upstream and/or in Ubuntu packages
** Evolution (python plugins possible : http://svn.gnome.org/viewvc/evolution/trunk/plugins/python/example/)
** Firefox

==== Upstream Awn ====
Action on upstream to add feature for the bar.

* Add system-wide theme installation (https://bugs.launchpad.net/awn/+bug/176923)
* Fix Dbus (menu stuff for plugins not work very well)
* Add support for packagekit in libawn
* Add support for Universal Applets (need some work on the Universal Applets part)

=== Test/Demo Plan ===
Most of these modifications can be tested one by one. 

=== Outstanding Issues ===

Which version of awn ?
Actual state (22/08/2008):
* 0.2.6 stable with less features
* trunk some testing done, some nice features (expand bar, change icons for applets, frame rate, alpha icon, detach (?) ...)
* 0.4 rewrite : some great improvement but still in developpement (and no ETA)

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
