{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-ubuntu-server-community-testing]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2009-11-20
* '''Contributors''': MarcTardif
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu

=== Summary ===

The Ubuntu Server would benefit from attracting more server testing during the development cycle in preparation for the Lucid release which happens to be LTS.

=== Rationale ===

The problem is that the Ubuntu Server community seems different from the typical Desktop community, so we need to find a way to attract this target audience.

=== User stories ===

* Samba should get tested with various Windows integration.

* Companies should feel compelled to test Lucid during the development in preparation for a migration.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.
