{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Created''': October 25th, 2011
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[Tle|Kenneth Nielsen]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

# Take a second look at the language pack release schedules to evaluate the timing the of the language packs
# Discuss the langauge pack release procedure to identify causes for delays and find ways to prevent them

=== Rationale ===

We have now run with a system of scheduled langauge pack updates for the last two releases and it is therefore about time to evaluate the process. In particular the following two subjects should be discussed:

1. The placement and number of language pack updates. The current schedule template calls for 6 updates after 2, 6, 12, 22, 34 and 42-46 weeks. How well does this number of updates and their placement work.
  a. We need to add "full" updates (that includes documentation translations) to the schedule. How many should we have and where should they be placed. It has been suggested to have 2 and for 11.10 they have been placed at lang pack 1 and 5.

1. Since we implemented a schedule for the language pack releases, we have had to many postponements, due to export breakdowns, communications breakdown, forgotten tasks etc. In order for this schedule to have intended effect, of offering the translators and testers planning possiblities, we need to be better at keeping the schedule. The following is a list of things that could be discussed to improve this.
  a. Communication pathways. We need to decide who asks who for what and when, and everyone involved needs to know about these decisions.
  a. Export stability. Is it possible to "baby sit" the exports so we don't loose so much time when they fail, or should we change it so that testing does not begin the same day the exports are supposed to be done, but a day after?

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
