{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
We could either use the 'insults' option of sudo to produce something like this:
<pre>
sudo echo 'hello'
Password:
It can only be attributed to human error.
Password:   
</pre>
This will get them thinking about it :-). Or by adding something like:
<pre>
passprompt="Password (not shown):"
</pre>
to the 'Defaults' line in /etc/sudoers

=== Rationale ===
Users are used to see stars or bullets when entering their passwords. sudo however disables echoing of passwords. We should educate users about that, since this problem pops up quite often. Here are three support requests showing the demand for this spec:
https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-terminal/+ticket/1945
https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-terminal/+ticket/1421
https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-terminal/+ticket/740

=== Use cases ===
Al got told to run a command using sudo in a terminal. He never used the command line before. As soon as entering the sudo command and pressing enter he thinks his computer just froze, because it does not react to input.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===
Change the default /etc/sudoers file to set a custom passpromt telling users that their password is not shown when typing it.

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
