{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:kernel-maverick-arm-single-zimage
* '''Created''': 2010-04-29
* '''Contributors''': EricMiao, NicolasPitre
* '''Packages affected''': kernel

=== Summary ===

We wish to provide the ability to build as many ARM platforms as
possible into a single kernel binary image.  This will greatly simplify
the archive packaging and maintenance effort by having only one kernel that
could be built and booted on multiple ARM targets.

=== Rationale ===

Unlike for X86, what we generally refer to when mentioning "ARM" is pretty
eclectic. While ARM Ltd has defined and standardized the ARM instruction set,
the ARM licensees (aka vendors i.e. those who actually produce chips) have
integrated that technology into wildly different SOCs. Therefore, there
isn't such thing as a "common ARM architecture" as we mean it when talking
about the "X86 architecture".

Those different ARM vendors have used their own set of IP blocks around the
ARM CPU core, such as timers, interrupt controllers, memory controllers,
IO peripherals, etc. Even the MMU architecture has seen some variations
between different vendors and different revisions of the ARM architecture.
There is some on-going work at ARM Ltd to standardize more pieces of an
ARM system into a common specification. But the ARM systems we have to deal
with today come from different vendors with considerable differences,
almost like different architectures when it comes to software support.

Due to the number of different ARM cores, and different ARM SoCs, it is
currently not possible to build all ARM platforms into a generic kernel
as can be done in the PC world.  The ARM support in the Linux kernel is
already structured to allow multiple machines based on the same SoC family
to coexist in the same compiled binary.  And to some extent, the support
for multiple CPU flavours may also be compiled in and selected at run time.
But the possible combinations still have significant limitations that
require multiple kernel binaries to be separately configured and built to
cover all the ARM platforms we want to support.

Lifting those limitations means we could have a single ARM kernel
configuration, a single kernel build, and a single kernel package
to carry in the Ubuntu distribution archive that would work for all the
platforms we wish to support.  This also means that fixes for generic kernel
bugs and the associated kernel update would have to be carried only once
instead of duplicating that work for each platform.

=== User stories ===

Bryan has implemented a new cool feature on Freescale i.MX51, and would
like to verify that feature on other ARM platforms, such as Marvell Dove.
Now he has to switch to another branch due to different config options,
upload, wait for the package to be built. Install that to Marvell Dove
platforms, and verify. Should there be a bug, now he also has to exclude
the cause due to different branches. And later he found bug in the
package, and fixed it for Dove, now he also has to provide a fix for
i.MX51 as well. This will be difficult to manage when the number of
platforms increases.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

What we already have:
* Structural directories (arch/arm/mach-*, arch/arm/plat-*).
* Support for platforms from the same ARM machine class can be built into
 the same kernel, and selected at run time through the machine_desc structure
 (see linux/arch/arm/include/asm/mach/arch.h).
* Multiple CPU core (MMU/TLB/cache) support can be built into the same
 kernel, and selected at run time through:
** struc processor (linux/arch/arm/include/asm/cpu-multi32.h),
** struct cpu_cache_fns (linux/arch/arm/include/asm/cacheflush.h), and
** struct cpu_tlb_fns (linux/arch/arm/include/asm/tlbflush.h).
* irq_chip, gpio_chip, …
* platform_device for most other peripherals.

What needs to be done:
* Runtime determined PHYS_OFFSET (where physical memory starts).
* Runtime determined TEXT_OFFSET (where the kernel is placed)
 [this might not be necessary?].
* A unified and optimized virt_to_phys()/phys_to_virt().
* Runtime selection of the appropriate hardware IRQ controller support.
* Removal of the build-time constant for total number of IRQs (NR_IRQS).
* Replacement of the machdirs and platdirs variables to allow multiple
 mach-* and plat-* directories to be built.
* Fix the symbol clashes between different machine classes, like duplicated
 defines with different values that would need to be runtime defined.
* Multiple clk API implementation and runtime selection.
* Handling of incompatible instruction set issues (maybe with runtime patching)
 [might be necessary for UP versus SMP].
* Other code abstraction and code re-structuring.

=== Implementation ===

==== What to do about ZRELADDR ====

There is a problematic relation between ZRELADDR and PHYS_OFFSET, especially
if we wish to make PHYS_OFFSET into something variable.

We could get rid of zreladdr entirely (and the various
Makefile.boot at the same time) as a nice cleanup, regardless of the
variable phys offset.  Instead of having boot/compressed/head.S load
zreladdr into r4, it could simply do:

`        @ determine final kernel image address ` <<BR>>
`        and     r4, pc, #0xf0000000            ` <<BR>>
`        add     r4, r4, #TEXT_OFFSET           ` <<BR>>

We need to find out what bits should be kept according to all the
PHYS_OFFSET definitions currently in the tree.  If anything, having a
CONFIG_ZRELADDR in the Kconfig system instead of having this ad-hoc
Makefile.boot would certainly be better.  Then

`#ifdef CONFIG_ZRELADDR                         ` <<BR>>
`        @ this is determined by Kconfig        ` <<BR>>
`        ldr     r4, =CONFIG_ZRELADDR           ` <<BR>>
`#else                                          ` <<BR>>
`        @ determine final kernel image address ` <<BR>>
`        and     r4, pc, #0xf0000000            ` <<BR>>
`        add     r4, r4, #TEXT_OFFSET           ` <<BR>>
`#endif                                         ` <<BR>>

And finally, the Kconfig rule could be:

`config DYNAMIC_PHYS_OFFSET                     ` <<BR>>
`        depends on !ZRELADDR                   ` <<BR>>

Then, any machine with special requirements (such as SA1100 with
neponset) could explicitly define ZRELADDR directly in the Kconfig file.

==== Optimized virt_to_phys() with a runtime determined PHYS_OFFSET ====

Currently we have

`#define __virt_to_phys(x)       ((x) - PAGE_OFFSET + PHYS_OFFSET)` <<BR>>

This normally translates into the following assembly instruction:

`        add     rx, rx, #(PHYS_OFFSET - PAGE_OFFSET)` <<BR>>

The immediate value of the add instruction is encoded in the low 12
bits, where 8 bits are used for the actual value, and 4 bits are used as
a shift value.  So you can effectively have a 8-bit value that may be
shifted/rotated to any even position within the 32 bit space.

In the context of virt_to_phys(), we can assume that the difference
between PHYS_OFFSET and PAGE_OFFSET will always fit into 8 bits shifted
to the MSBs.  This is like saying that phys and virt offsets will always
be at least 1 MB aligned which is a pretty safe assumption.

So the idea is to create a table of pointers to all those add
instructions, and have the early boot code to walk and patch up the 
referenced low 12 bits according to the actual PHYS - VIRT offset value.

This table can be created into a separate section, a bit like the .fixup
section used with the ldrt/strt instructions, but which gets discarded
with the rest of the _''''''_init stuff at the end of the boot.  The
_''''''_get_user_asm_word() macro is therefore a good example of how
_''''''_virt_to_phys() could be done.

In the Thumb2 case the fixup would be different as the add.w instruction
is encoded differently, but the idea is the same.  Ditto for phys_to_virt().

==== Runtime determined TEXT_OFFSET ====

That might not be worth trying to support a variable TEXT_OFFSET.
That would require building the whole kernel with -fPIC which is not
without any overhead.  Furthermore there are quite few platform needing
to change the location of the kernel in  virtual memory.

==== Runtime selected IRQ controller support code ====

Using an extra pointer in the machine_desc structure to replace the
get_irqnr_and_base macro should solve this issue.

==== Replacement of the machdirs and platdirs variables ====

In linux/arch/arm/Makefile, those variables are used to select which
directory is to be built depending on some CONFIG_ARCH_* and CONFIG_PLAT_*
config symbols.  The first step would be to convert those into standard Kbuild
rules like:

`obj-$(CONFIG_ARCH_FOO)          += mach-foo/        ` <<BR>>
`obj-$(CONFIG_PLAT_BAR)          += plat-bar/        ` <<BR>>

The next step is to change the "ARM system type" choice menu in
arch/arm/Kconfig so individual system types can be turned ON or OFF.

This is where the symbol clash party begins.

==== Header file dependency cleanup ====

Currently, machine specific header file could be included in a more
generic header file, and in turn included by other common code. This
prevents multiple machines being built together. It will be a massive
cleanup, a preliminary analysis is as below:

`    $ git grep "#include <mach" arch/arm/include/asm/` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/dma.h:#include <mach/isa-dma.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/floppy.h:#include <mach/floppy.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/gpio.h:#include <mach/gpio.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/dec21285.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/iop3xx-adma.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/iop3xx-gpio.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/sa1111.h:#include <mach/bitfield.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/io.h:#include <mach/io.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/irq.h:#include <mach/irqs.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/mc146818rtc.h:#include <mach/irqs.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/memory.h:#include <mach/memory.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/mmzone.h:#include <mach/memory.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/mtd-xip.h:#include <mach/mtd-xip.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/pci.h:#include <mach/hardware.h> /* for PCIBIOS_MIN_* */` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/pgtable.h:#include <mach/vmalloc.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/smp.h:#include <mach/smp.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/system.h:#include <mach/barriers.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/timex.h:#include <mach/timex.h>` <<BR>>
`    arch/arm/include/asm/vga.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>

** <mach/floppy.h> is no longer necessary

===== memory.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/memory.h:#include <mach/memory.h>`

1. PHYS_OFFSET

** can be ignored if RUNTIME_PHYS_OFFSET is doable
** should be removed from <mach/memory.h>
** but we need this somewhere to allow the usage of a hardcoded constant
  [a config option?]

1. ISA_DMA_THRESHOLD and DMA_MAX_ADDRESS

** make them into variables and encode them in machine_desc

1. arch_adjust_zones()

** can be moved into machine_desc
** this depends on CONFIG_ZONE_DMA
** what to do with CONFIG_ZONE_DMA?

1. NODE_MEM_SIZE_BITS, SECTION_SIZE_BITS, MAX_PHYSMEM_BITS, ...

1. CONFIG_SPARSEMEM

** N/A

===== dma.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/dma.h:#include <mach/isa-dma.h>`

** depends on CONFIG_ISA_DMA_API, which is only needed for floppy support and equally outdated drivers
** currently only the machines below:
*** arch/arm/mach-h720x/include/mach/isa-dma.h
*** arch/arm/mach-footbridge/include/mach/isa-dma.h
*** arch/arm/mach-shark/include/mach/isa-dma.h
*** arch/arm/mach-rpc/include/mach/isa-dma.h
** the most important definition is MAX_DMA_CHANNELS, which can be
  converted to a variable or just defined to the maximum (10) after trivial code changes.
** some other machine specific definitions, most of which can be moved into platform specific code.

===== gpio.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/gpio.h:#include <mach/gpio.h>`

** gpio_to_irq() and irq_to_gpio(), need to make this generic but
  could hurt performance
** inlined version of gpio_{get,set}_value(), gpio_direction_*()
  and others will conflict with each other, unless CONFIG_GPIOLIB is used
** some other definitions like GPIO registers

===== hardware.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/dec21285.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>
`arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/iop3xx-adma.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>
`arch/arm/include/asm/hardware/iop3xx-gpio.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>
`arch/arm/include/asm/vga.h:#include <mach/hardware.h>` <<BR>>

** <mach/hardware.h> is really machine specific and could possibly contain
  anything
** consider renaming them after the actual machine class
** some machines define different contents depending on CONFIG_* symbols, which might need to be turned into runtime options (e.g. arch/arm/mach-at91/include/mach/hardware.h)
** important definitions include
** * pcibios_assign_all_busses
** * PCIBIOS_MIN_IO/MEM

===== io.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/io.h:#include <mach/io.h>`

** IO_SPACE_LIMIT (actually IO_SPACE_LIMIT for _all_ machines are now
  0xffff_ffff), if no exception could just be removed and make it a
  default
** definitions of _''''''_io(), this is defined as _''''''_typesafe_io(a) on most
  platforms; on other platforms, it can be abstracted as <<BR>>
  `    ((void __iomem *)(BASE + (a)))` <<BR>>
  as long as we can make BASE a variable, this can be removed
** definitions of _''''''_mem_pci(a), defined as (a) on all platforms, can
  be removed and make a default
** ixp4xx is especially complex, depending on INDIRECT_PCI and PCI
** how to handle different definitions of {in,out}{b,w,l}()
** _''''''_arch_ioremap() and _''''''_arch_iounmap()

===== irqs.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/irq.h:#include <mach/irqs.h>`

** what <asm/irq.h> needs is NR_IRQS (can be solved by SPARSEIRQ)
** <mach/irqs.h> can be made internal to machine specific code _only_

===== mtd-xip.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/mtd-xip.h:#include <mach/mtd-xip.h>`

** currently, only omap1, pxa, sa1100 supports this
** a XIP kernel fundamentally cannot be multi machine class capable anyway,
  and even if it could that wouldn't make sense

===== pci.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/pci.h:#include <mach/hardware.h> /* for PCIBIOS_MIN_* */`

** need to make PCIBIOS_MIN_* variables

===== vmalloc.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/pgtable.h:#include <mach/vmalloc.h>`

** mainly for VMALLOC_END; could be made into a machine specific variable

===== smp.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/smp.h:#include <mach/smp.h>`

** smp_cross_call()
** hard_smp_processor_id()

===== barriers.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/system.h:#include <mach/barriers.h>`

** currently no machine defines barriers.h

===== timex.h =====

`arch/arm/include/asm/timex.h:#include <mach/timex.h>`

** CLOCK_TICK_RATE, can actually be removed, need to add common PIT_TICK_RATE to build tty code.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Find two or more platforms we are going to support, and have a single kernel
booting on both(all) of them.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

(from UDS-M by DaveMartin)

Need to look at:
* runtime determination of {PHYS,TEXT}_OFFEST
* handing of virt_to_phys and phys_to_virt
** sparsemem?

* IRQ numbering
** solvable with sparseirqs and dynamic irqs?

* build system
** no multiple machinedirs possible at the moment, this should be
    selectable via Kconfig instead

* instruction set issues
** dynamic patching?

* fixing symbol clashes
** more of an effort of turning macros into variables

* clock API
** expand on this at the DT session later today

* other code abstractions, code restructuring
** on an as-needed basis

Action Items:
* [ericm] look at the powerpc virq infrastructure
* [martinbogo] various macro-reduction efforts
* [nico] physical offset and text offset patches
* [nico] boot interface specification for decompressed kernel placement

----
CategorySpec
