{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:ubuntu-education-app-bundles
* '''Created''': December 07 2008
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

''Education Application Bundles''

Provide a way for the user to select a bundle of Education Applications which are appropriate for a particular education level:
** by school level option
** by age option

The requirement is in effect a simple way to do a "bulk selection of apps" for "bulk" installation from the application list available from the repository(ies)

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

Currently, the available education applications are not categorised or described in such a way that is is simple for the average:
** teacher
** school network admin
** home user student
** home user parent
to identify which applications are applicable / suitable for their requirements.

It would be useful to have the bundle selection available:
## in <code>Add/Remove</code> as selections under <code>{Education</code> category
## Included as an install option when using the Ubuntu Education CD

=== Use Cases ===

==== 1. Mr Jones : Parent ====

Mr Jones has installed Ubuntu on his home PC. He has a daughter who is 10 years old and attends school in Grade 4. He is aware of that the <code>Applications</code> menu has an <code>Education</code> category and decides to open <code>Applications</code> → <code>Add/Remove ...</code> to find and install more education applications. Inside <code>Add/Remove ... </code> he selects the <code>Education</code> category and finds 4 bundle options at the top of the list:
* Pre-School Bundle
* Primary Bundle
* Secondary Bundle
* Tertiary Bundle

He then:
## highlights <code>Primary Bundle</code> and reads the description, and finds that this best fits his daughter's profile.
## selects the <code>Primary Bundle</code> checkbox
## sees <code>Primary Bundle (community-supported</code> as he has "All available applications" selected and finds more suitable applications.
## selects the <code>Primary Bundle</code> checkbox
## clicks <code>Apply changes</code>
## is presented with a list of applications that are about to be installed as per his bundle selection.

==== 2. Ms Smith : Teacher ====

Ms Smith has Ubuntu installed on her school PCs. The school covers Grades 1-10. She is aware of that the <code>Applications</code> menu has an <code>Education</code> category and decides to open <code>Applications</code> → <code>Add/Remove ...</code> to find and install more education applications. Inside <code>Add/Remove ... </code> Se selects the <code>Education</code> category and finds 4 bundle options at the top of the list:
* Pre-School Bundle
* Primary Bundle
* Secondary Bundle
* Tertiary Bundle

She then:
## highlights <code>Primary Bundle</code> and reads the description, and finds that this partially fits the school profile.
## selects the <code>Primary Bundle</code> checkbox
## highlights <code>Seconday Bundle</code> and reads the description, and finds that this also partially fits the school profile.
## selects the <code>Seconday Bundle</code> checkbox
## clicks <code>Apply changes</code>
## is presented with a list of applications that are about to be installed as per his bundle selection.

* Note that there will be overlap of applications across Primary & Secondary
* Note that there may be applications in a bundle that are already previously installed

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

The following 8 bundle options are proposed:
* Pre-School
* Pre-School (community-supported)
* Primary
* Primary (community-supported)
* Secondary
* Secondary (community-supported)
* Tertiary
* Tertiary (community-supported)

The user would be able to choose one or more of these options, and this would select all the apps that match the level(s).

'''See attachment for categorisation of applications'''
<nowiki>[[attachment:Ubuntu-Edu-Apps-education-&-games.ods]]</nowiki>

''Requires a review of:''
# Any new Education applications for Jaunty
# Any removed Education applications for Jaunty
# A second eye to go over the School Classification levels to confirm 1st pass by RichEd
# A quality check to gauge which applications should be included or excluded

The current Edubuntu metapackage/seed structure will change as follows:
* edubuntu-addon-meta, along with the addon-kde, addon-legacy, addon-science, addon-young seeds we be deprecated and removed.
* ubuntu-edu-meta source package will be created in Main for Canonical-supported bundles: <code>ubuntu-edu-preschool</code>, <code>ubuntu-edu-primary</code>, <code>ubuntu-edu-secondary</code>, <code>ubuntu-edu-tertiary</code>
* edubuntu-bundles source package will be created in Universe for community-supported bundles: <code>edubuntu-preschool</code>, <code>edubuntu-primary</code>, <code>edubuntu-secondary</code>, and <code>edubuntu-tertiary</code>
* the <code>edubuntu-desktop</code> will depend on ubuntu-edu-* + additional misc. packages for a "full" educational desktop

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

In the <code>Education</code> category of the <code>Add/Remove</code> window:
## 8 new options available for selection
### '''Pre-School'''
### '''Pre-School (community-supported)'''
### '''Primary'''
### '''Primary (community-supported)'''
### '''Secondary'''
### '''Secondary (community-supported)'''
### '''Tertiary'''
### '''Tertiary (community-supported)'''
## The community-supported bundles will not appear if "Canonical-maintained applications" is selected. The community-supported bundles will be in the Universe repo.
## bundle options should appear at the top of the list
*** requires a new general description '''against all 4'''
#### what the concept of a bundle is
#### what a bundle selection will offer the user
*** requires a new specific description '''for each of the 4'''
#### what user school level this specific bundle is aimed at
#### what user age level this specific bundle is aimed at
*** '''note that school classification varies across countries ... needs to be general'''
 
==== Code Changes ====

Mvo is to make changes to gnome-app-install to make the bundles appear at the top of the Education menu. LaserJock and Edubuntu team are to create metapackages for the bundles including proper .desktop files for gnome-app-install.

==== Migration ====

* ''data migration''
** assumption is '''none'''
** get consensus
* ''redirects from old URLs to new ones''
** assumption is '''none'''
** get consensus
* ''how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things''
** requires user documentation on http://www.edubuntu.org
** suggested "feature offering" on http://www.ubuntu.com/education
** suggested "feature offering" on press release for Jaunty
** suggested "feature offering" on edubuntu mailing lists

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

----
CategorySpec CategoryEducation
