{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:loco-directory-development
* '''Created''': 2009-12-01
* '''Contributors''': popey, dholbach, czajkowski, doctormo, jonobacon, effie-jayx, and lots of others.
* Roadmap Entry: <nowiki>[[Roadmaps-Lucid-LocoDirectory]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===
The LoCo project needs a central place for its organisation. Team details and events are too intial targets for that.

=== Rationale ===
LoCoTeamsList is incredibly long and always outdated. We need a better way of tracking what's going on and how team details change. Team event information in a central place will make organisation and keeping track of events a lot easier.

=== User stories ===
* Alan wants to find out when the next reapprovals of teams are happening. He checks the reapproval list on the LoCo Directory.
* Didier plans a big event and puts the data into the LoCo Directory.
* Leia is team contact of an unapproved team. First she enters missing data into the LoCo Directory, then she documents events. When the team applies for approval or their LoCo, the LoCo Council can easily find out what all happened.

=== Design ===
# The 0.1.x versions aim to replace LoCoTeamsList.
# The 0.2.x versions aim to provide us with a simple event handling system.

=== Implementation ===
# The 0.1.0 release can almost be rolled out, there is only two blockers left (2009-12-01): https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+milestone/0.1.0
# From 0.1.1 we plan to have a beautified layout and more mugshots/logos.
** Regarding the events feature, we plan to keep only basic information in the LD for now: 
** Ability to add an event with the following attributes:
*** Event type (Jam, Presentation, Tutorial, Release Party, Installfest, Other)
*** Time
*** Location
*** Description
*** Name 
** Events are visible on LoCo pages and a master list of events. 
** Initial code for event handling is available. (Efrain)

==== Migration ====
Only team names, admins and owner information will be transferred from Launchpad.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

<pre>
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoDirectory

Actions completed since UDS Barcelona:

* Data migration
* Data availability XML
* launchpad integration
* Get code to an initial working state

preview available.

Events:
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-event-registration
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoDirectory/EventFeature
* Mailing loco members about upcoming events
* Social network event integration (facebook, twitter, identi.ca, et al)??? does this make sense?
* Data:
** Location, Description, Summary, Date and Time
** Links to announcements
** Links to Report, Pictures, etc.
** ?

Future development in Lucid
 
* Design of per-loco team page (doctormo)
* Calendaring/Events Something simple
* Map

LoCo Council Requirements:
* up and running
** store data about locos
** reapprovals
* TODO: Set all the aproved team's expiration dates
* New things
** Old and future events for review
  
LoCo Team Requirements:
* List of local teams for new people.
* Indervidualised page with photos and basic information
* Socialise editing of the added data into the directory
 
== Roadmap ==

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Improve visual design of the LoCo Directory team page.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': Enjoyable experience that teams are happy to point new users to.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Bringing in branding links from Launchpad (Martin Owens) (https://bugs.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+bug/474114)
** Icon development (Martin Owens)
** CSS improvements (Martin Owens)
** Admin mugshots (Dave Walker)
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-development
* '''DRIVER''': Martin Owens

* '''OBJECTIVE''': Implement an event handing feature.
* '''SUCCESS CRITERIA''': LoCo teams can add events to be displayed on their LoCo directory page and view event information.
* '''ACTIONS''':
** Review Efrain's code to determine if it can be used (Daniel Holbach)
** Development of the feature (Daniel Holbach)
** Ability to add an event with the following attributes:
*** Event type (Jam, Presentation, Tutorial, Release Party, Installfest, Other)
*** Time
*** Location
*** Description
*** Name
** Events are visible on LoCo pages and a master list of events.
** Deploy to the live site (Daniel Holbach + IS)
* '''BLUEPRINT''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-event-registration
* '''DRIVER''': Daniel Holbach

Agenda:

* Log re-approvals in the LoCo Directory.
* Change expiration date to next approval date.
 

Events in LoCo-Directory:

Blueprint:
https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-event-registration

Rationale for having events in LoCo Directory:
  
** Sharing event information
** Organizing events is separate in different places
** Attendance is mostly never recorded.
** Wiki is not easy to track, promote and organizing.
** it does not integrate well with social networks

Background:

Some code is in a separate project, vento, written by Efrain Valles. So it should be an easy implementation. http://launchpad.net/vento

New Ideas:

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/loco-directory/+spec/loco-directory-event-registration

Event Data:

* Title (0.2.0)
* Description  (0.2.0)
* When  (0.2.0)
** Time/Zone  (0.2.0)
** Starts  (0.2.0)
** Ends  (0.2.0)
* Location (0.2.0)
  - Title (string), eg. Foo Hotel
  - Long/Lat
* Reports  (0.2.1)
* event categories (check boxes)  (0.2.1)
* Meta Events ("container", ie: Global Jam)  (0.2.1)

* List of people participating / attending (second iteration)  (0.2.2)
* Location with link to map (0.2.2) 
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
