{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-checkbox-enhancements]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2009-11-06
* '''Contributors''': MarcTardif
* '''Packages affected''': checkbox

=== Summary ===

As Checkbox is being increasingly adopted for testing Ubuntu, it would benefit from further enhancements in order to increase its adoption.

=== Rationale ===

The ultimate objective is for Checkbox to be able to provide more flexibility when running tests.

=== User stories ===

* Tree hierarchy to improve test suite selection (jcollado): As test cases are being added to different test suites, the number of available test suites may grow considerably and their selection for execution becomes more difficult. Sometimes one test suite should be executed, while other times a set of related test suites should be executed. Unfortunately, the relationship between test suites cannot be stated in any way and they cannot be added to any group. To solve this problem, it would be nice to have a way to structure test suites in a tree hierarchy so that users may be able to decide which test suites to execute with different granularity level (indiviual test suite, group of test suites, group of groups, etc.).

* Individual test case selection for development purposes (jcollado): When adding a new test case to a test suite or when reviewing results from a previous test case execution, it's useful to launch the execution of just one test case to verify that it's working as expected under checkbox. However, since only test suite selection is currently supported, a fake test suite has to be created with just one test case for this purpose. The ability to select an individual test case for execution would be really useful in these cases to save time.

* Resume state between executions (jcollado): There are some test cases that require some operation such as reboot the machine to perform their operation. In this case, it would be really interesting to be able to save the state of the checkbox execution and be able to resume it the next time it's launched.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.
 
