{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

Summarize the change here.

If the specification is a long one, add a `` here too.

=== Release note ===

If the specification describes a major change between Ubuntu releases, summarize the change here in a way that would be useful for the sort of people who read release notes. Be as brief as possible, but include anything users might want to do before or after upgrading.

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== The rest of the specification ===

Replace that heading with headings for each thing you’re changing or specifying.

Checklist:

1. Have you reviewed the bug reports for the relevant package? (Yes, this may take an hour or two. But you might be able to fix multiple bugs with a well-designed change.)

1. If any user interface is involved, is it fully described? Include any wireframes or mockups.

1. Have you had any new user interface, or new visible text, reviewed by a designer? (Or if you are a designer, have you had it peer-reviewed?)

1. Is the change accessible? (For example, have you specified accessible labels for any graphic-only elements?)

1. How will users learn the new way of doing things? Describe any help pages required, and any changes to the Ubuntu Web site or installer slideshow.

1. Is any migration of data or settings required?

1. How will the feature be tested? Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

=== Unresolved issues ===

Highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

----
CategorySpec
