{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-arm/+spec/arm-m-soc-omap | Spec]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': Anmar Oueja
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': None

=== Summary ===

* Overview of OMAP3/4 Hardware and Software offering
** Current upstreaming state and explore some of the issues faced when pushing stuff upstream
** The closed and open source components availability and distribution model
** Pains maintaining the BSP and future direction in resolving them
* Ways the Ubuntu community can help
** How can we help you?

Chris Pearson, Product Manager and Open Source Zealot Advocate for
Texas Instruments, shared some good information on support for open
source and Ubuntu on OMAP, and opportunities for developers to use
their upcoming Panda''''''Board (OMAP4) and an updated Beagle''''''Board.

The slides Chris used, with block diagrams, time frames etc, are attached to this page as <nowiki>[[attachment:OMAP_Overview_UDS.pdf]]</nowiki>

The new Beagle''''''Board XM will have a 1 GHz ARM Cortex A8 and handles 720p encoding and decoding of H.264 or MPEG-4

The Panda''''''Board will be based on OMAP4 which includes two ARM Cortex A9's at 1 GHz.
It will handle 1080p Encode/Decode.

A public Technical Reference Manual for OMAP4 will be available soon.

The daily netbook live image for Texas Instruments OMAP is at
 http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-netbook/ports/daily-preinstalled/current/

OMAP Foundation software will be integrated into it by the end of July.

See these links for more information
* http://focus.ti.com/general/docs/wtbu/wtbugencontent.tsp?templateId=6 123&navigationId=11988&contentId=4638 
* http://www.elinux.org/OMAP
* http://www.omappedia.org
* http://www.beagleboard.org
* http://www.pandaboard.org
* http://www.gumstix.com
* http://www.tincantools.com
* http://www.digikey.com 10

Contact:
Chris Pearson
chris.pearson@ti.com
=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
Is there a better open source camera app than "cheese" to stress this sort of hardware for video conferencing etc?

----
CategorySpec
