{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-lucid-une
* '''Created''': 2009-11-05
* '''Contributors''': Steve Kowalik, 
* '''Packages affected''': ubuntu-netbook, ubuntu-netbook-default-settings, infrastructure changes

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu Netbook Remix has released twice, first in 9.04, and has moved beyond the name "Remix", since a "Remix" is an unofficial edition of Ubuntu that has been modified.

=== Release Note ===

Starting with 10.04, Ubuntu Netbook Remix is now called Ubuntu Netbook Edition, or UNE.

=== Rationale ===

A "Remix" is an unoffical edition of Ubuntu that has been modified, and UNR has been offical for the past two releases, so it's name should reflect that.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

The contents unr.lucid seed pod should get moved to a netbook.lucid seed pod, and tasksel and LP notified about the new task names.

cdimage infrastructure and surrounding parts (such as livecd-rootfs) will learn how to create an ubuntu-netbook CD.

The ubuntu-netbook-remix, and ubuntu-netbook-remix-default-settings packages should be renamed to drop the -remix.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

"Remix" is an unofficial edition of Ubuntu that has been modified; we're beyond that point and UNR is now official.

* Ubuntu Netbook Edition
* No longer a Remix; it's in the archive
* Has been supported; built for two releases now
* What do we need to do to make those changes
* Decision to change names has been made; this session is to decide how to do it

Spec (10,000 foot view) to talk about timeline, master Bug, then Bugs to show individual tasks

* Need milestones
** What happens immediately (packages, etc.)
** What can wait (Web site, etc.)

* UMR (Ubuntu Moblin Remix) is in a separate session (if both are going to be renamed, consider doing it in parallel, raise during UMR session)

=== Task Name ===

* ubuntu-netbook-remix task renamed to ubuntu-netbook
* seed pod (unr.<RELEASE>)
* Wiki pages
   - How do we track this?
* Various infrastructure changes, cdimage etc etc (301 redirect for existing URLs?)
* ubuntu-netbook-remix-default-settings
* UNR package descriptions, names, build changes to reflect new names
* Launchpad project/superproject (https://launchpad.net/unr)
* livecd-rootfs
* Documenting the processs itself
* Upgrades; make sure updating to new package names is smooth and transparent
* desktop-switcher already went away; Desktop/UNE look and feel now a session instead
* Visibilty about the rename itself
* How did this Remix become official? (document the process for other Remixes)
  - Decision process for this is out of scope

----
CategorySpec
