{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Contributors: '''<nowiki>[[http:shazkhan.wordpress.com | shazkhan]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://serg.imsciences.edu.pk | SERG]]</nowiki>'''

== Summary ==

Mandatory Access Control (MAC) will provide an isolation mechanism for stakeholder resources. This will prevent or reduce damage from buggy or malicious software. This is a proven technology with server and desktop computing but it is promising for the mobile business model as well. Hence we will provide ports of some MAC mechanisms like Tomoyo and SELinux for the mobile platform. Some initial tests have already done.  

== Rationale ==

Linux discretionary access control (DAC) is not sufficient for security as root can do anything and due to the reason that user as an owner decides the permissions on resources. Malicious code can easily take over the user resources once the user puts it in execution. Consider the problems with setuid scheme. Therefore MAC is provided as a scheme where a security administrator enforces a policy that takes care of the stakeholder rights. The best part is that DAC and MAC work together to provide stronger security for the system.

== Use Cases ==

Manufacturer, Operator and users are the stakeholders of the mobile platform in simple use-cases, while there can be use-cases where an enterprise will also be a stakeholder. Then we have third party service providers as stakeholders as well in the business model. Traditional MAC has one source of authority manifested in the security administrator, while the mobile platform is essentially a multi-stakeholder environment. Here the role played by security administrator is distributed among the stakeholders and the policy management needs to be dynamic rather than based on deployment time. We use this kind of approach with SELinux due to its powerful features.

A trivial use-case is one in which the manufacturer or the operator or an enterprise as the only/direct trusted manager of rights uses SELinux or Tomoyo to handle the MAC enforcement and policy on the device for all the stakeholders. This is something that we are expecting from <nowiki>[[http://meego.com | MeeGo]]</nowiki> as well in the shape of Aegis.

For a complete understanding of the problem refer to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/M/ARMTrustedComputingSupport | Trusted Computing Support]]</nowiki>.

== Design ==

The difficult part is to provide an example/reference policy. The rest is mainly available in kernel and we just enable it! Then we have the user-space libs and utils which need to be ported. This is a matter of a few days.

== Initial Targets ==

1. <nowiki>[[http://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux/ | Security Enhanced Linux]]</nowiki> for complex use-cases

2. <nowiki>[[http://tomoyo.sourceforge.jp/ | Tomoyo]]</nowiki> for simple use-cases

== Implementation ==
(SELinux)
Kernel, utilities and libraries available for arm920T, s3c2442. The reference policy for Linaro needs to be shaped for the Linaro software stack. This grows with more information available with time as the project matures. A base policy is being worked at at the moment for the kernel and we will have a system that can be booted in permissive mode. Enforcing will only be possible once the key software components of Linaro are clearly defined.

Apart from the base policy that handles mandatory stack of Linaro then we will have policy modules with each application, which will be handled by the developer/stakeholder FOR a system using SELinux for security reasons.

(Tomoyo)

In a while ...
