{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



* next meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110312|2011-03-26 22:00 - 23:00 UTC]]</nowiki>

=== Previous Meetings ===
* meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110319|2011-03-19 22:00 - 23:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* developers meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110312|2011-03-12 20:00 - 21:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110305|2011-03-05 19:00 - 21:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* developers meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110226|2011-02-26 19.00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110219|2011-02-19 19:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* developers meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110212|2011-02-12 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20110121|2011-01-21 20:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-meetings-20101229|2010-12-29 22:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20101228|2010-12-28 22:00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* first initial meeting: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20101218|2010-12-17 23.00 UTC]]</nowiki>
* Initial Project Chat: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-20101210|2010-12-10]]</nowiki>
* logs from previous channel: <nowiki>[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7607669/Ubuntu%20Servers-%23to-make-impossible-possible.log|%23to-make-impossible-possible.log]]</nowiki>
* project start: <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings-2010-12-10|2010-12-10]]</nowiki>

=== Natty Narwhal release plan ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 2010/12/02
| Alpha 1
|-
| 2010/12/30
| Debian Import Freeze
|-
| 2011/02/03
| Alpha 2
|-
| 2011/02/24
| Feature Freeze
|-
| 2011/03/03
| Alpha 3
|-
| 2011/03/24
| UI Freeze
|-
| 2011/03/31
| Beta
|-
| 2011/04/14
| Final Freeze
|-
| 2011/04/21
| Release Candidate
|-
| 2011/04/28
| Ubuntu 11.04
|}

=== Meeting agenda 2011-03-19 ===
==== inactivity ====
Recent inactivity of a lot of members means, we will have to re-assess who is involved.
This project is not going to die or fade away, it might take us a little longer to reach our goals, but that does not stop us.

==== Infrastructure ====
UndiFineD has been setting up a full infrastructure, great until he got hacked.
new infrastructure has to be setup again, this time without ssh access.

==== Google summer of code ====
For the 6th year in a row Google is having its summer of code event.
We have already been approached by interested students, we should sign-up.
Create a few small tasks to be done.

==== Blueprints ====
* openMary (libopenmary, gtk-mary, python-openmary)
** Work's coming to a close with openMary. The library (libopenmary) is near completion by integrating GStreamer and fleshing out the rest of the MARY TTS API.
** Possible work is:
*** Rewrite Java application to C/C++
*** Add audio output into the Java application
*** Integrate D-Bus support and a command line interface for the Java application
*** Possible packaging of MARY into the SpeechControl PPA
* uVRT (uvrt)
** Work's being done to finalize the ability to render sessions (read/write support of sessions is iffy)
** Audio control and cross audio server support is done using GStreamer
* Inferno (inferno-cli, inferno-bot)
* Browser plugin (browserspeak)
** Relies heavily on MARY to be running, otherwise uses the MARY TTS API to save audio to disk and output synthesized text.
** Work needs to be done to emulate libopenmary into jsOpenMary, to avoid having to use NPAPI.

=== Developers Meeting Agenda 2011-02-26 ===
* Joining the SII
Hajour has decided that any work on joining the SII is on hold. They have made an effort to define themselves, but this is not complete. This all had to be done in a flash of time, and so it is only logical it is not perfect. The content is also questionable and open for interpretation. She wants to see it mature a bit more.

* Blueprints
Jacky modified the blueprint pages to point to create a new page, I have reverted that, Jacky, could you explain why ? The blueprints need further ongoing definition.

* bugs focus group
It had been decided to put the bugs focus group creation on hold in the previous meeting. Although Such a team exists on Launchpad, its definition is still waiting.

* OpenMary
We have several projects around OpenMary. I hear ther are some latency issues, Which is understandable. In the future we should look into asynchronous communication.

* uVRT
Progress evaluation, what is needed ?

* Inferno
Inferno is to become a chat client plugin. Thanks to Jmarsden who found an abandoned project which can be reused. 

* Browser plugin
A plugin for the users browser must be secure. As such a plugin would have direct contact with the internet. It has to be split into a frontend and a backend that communicates with speech-dispatcher or SpeechControl deamon.

=== Meeting Agenda 2011-02-19 ===
Please add your topic to be discussed prior to the actual meeting.
If you cannot attend, please make a note here.
Information on meetings can be found <nowiki>[[Meetings|here]]</nowiki>.
 A. Recap of last meetingâ€™s topics [development]
** InfernoBot IRC bot to be discontinued (probably just a PM bot or a bot for channels like speechcontrol)
   a. Continued as a plugin for xChat
   a. Suggestion: also for Pidgin (also widely use app for IRC etc.)
** Chrome/Mozilla extension
   a. Progress 
    1. Need to write up blueprint for project
   a. Suggestions
    1. Open up Answer section on Launchpad  for question tracking 
** Speech Recognition
   a. progress
    1. VRT
   a. developers
* New ideas
  a. Ask

 A. Upstream Status
 A. Mentoring Program 
 A. Testing Team
** leoquant will try to "set-up" a testing-team
 A. Side projects
** VibraSound Equipment
   1. Explanation
   2. Equipment
   3. Volunteers
 A. Open Forums
 A. Next Meeting Date
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Person
| Reason
|-
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| Blueprints progress
|-
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| Vibrasound
|-
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| Bitesize projects
|}

==== Accessible discussion ====
* Via voice and irc chat Teamspeak / Skype / Mumble.
* This is still a work in progress, not surprising as this is hard

==== Blueprints ====
The same details are at <nowiki>[[ SpeechControl-Blueprints | the Blueprints page ]]</nowiki>

==== Progress ====
* Simon Listens - Extendability: API + documentation Scenarios <nowiki>[[bedahr | bedahr]]</nowiki>
* Julius - port patches + cmake? from simon listens <nowiki>[[RainCT | RainCT]]</nowiki>
* Sonic - speeds speech with openMary <nowiki>[[waywardgeek | waywardgeek]]</nowiki>
* IRC meeting talking bot <nowiki>[[MichealH | MichealH]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[Jasonodoom | josono]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Daniel0108|Daniel0108]]</nowiki>
* libOpenMary - library to connect with the openMary server <nowiki>[[jackyalcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Daniel0108|Daniel0108]]</nowiki>
* 

==== Any Other Business ====
