{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by UndiFineD at 22:02:40 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/speechcontrol/2010/speechcontrol.2010-12-28-22.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Accessible discussion

''ACTION:'' bedahr looks into voice accessible meeting possibility  (UndiFineD, 22:08:19)

''ACTION:'' ChrisDruif helps testing  voice accessible meeting possibility  (UndiFineD, 22:10:05)

* Signing the Code of Conduct

* Progress Simon Listens

* Artificial Intelligence

''LINK:'' http://www.codeproject.com/KB/recipes/HopfieldNeuralNetwork.aspx   (JackyAlcine, 22:44:26)

* Progress of Sonic

* Porting of Simon to GNOME (gSimon)?
''LINK:'' http://vinux-project.org/1x.wav   (ChrisDruif, 22:50:43)

''LINK:'' http://vinux-project.org/ola-hann   (waywardgeek, 22:55:11)

''LINK:'' http://vinux-project.org/ola-hann   (UndiFineD, 22:57:08)

''LINK:'' http://nepomuk.kde.org   (JackyAlcine, 23:04:32)

''LINK:'' http://www.semanticdesktop.org/   (UndiFineD, 23:04:55)

* any other business

* next dev meeting

''LINK:'' http://doodle.com/vqngp7bkxrtyyy2a (updated)  (JackyAlcine, 23:24:06)

Meeting ended at 22:44:13 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Developer of SpeechControl
   For: 4 Against: 1 Abstained: 0

* Who HAS signed the CoC
   For: 10 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* bedahr looks into voice accessible meeting possibility
* ChrisDruif helps testing  voice accessible meeting possibility

=== Action items, by person ===

* bedahr
* * bedahr looks into voice accessible meeting possibility
* ChrisDruif
* * ChrisDruif helps testing  voice accessible meeting possibility

=== People present (lines said) ===

* UndiFineD (98)
* JackyAlcine (97)
* bedahr (55)
* ChrisDruif (46)
* meetingology (44)
* phillw (27)
* hajour (33)
* MichealH-iPod (26)
* waywardgeek (18)
* RainCT (13)
* DragonEyes (8)
* AlanBell (7)
* leoquant (6)
* pedro3005 (4)
* ibuclaw (1)
* rx007 (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>
 22:02:40 <UndiFineD> #startmeeting
 22:02:40 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec 28 22:02:40 2010 UTC.  The chair is UndiFineD. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
 22:02:40 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.
 22:02:50 <ChrisDruif> Just in time :D
 22:02:50 <UndiFineD> #chair JackyAlcine
 22:02:50 <meetingology> Current chairs: JackyAlcine UndiFineD
 22:03:03 <bedahr> hi everybody
 22:03:14 <JackyAlcine> Good afternoon/evening everyone.
 22:03:15 <hajour> hai bedahr
 22:03:28 <JackyAlcine> This is our second meeting of SpeechControl.
 22:03:33 <MichealH> Okay, My iPod will take over
 22:03:34 <UndiFineD> hello all great to have you here
 22:03:35 <ChrisDruif> Good (UGT) morning everyone :)
 22:04:02 <hajour> happy you all are here for the meeting
 22:04:07 * phillw hiyas
 22:04:40 <UndiFineD> #topic Accessible discussion
 22:04:40 <meetingology> TOPIC: Accessible discussion
 22:04:58 <UndiFineD> no progress has been made here i think ?
 22:05:18 <JackyAlcine> From what I'm gathering, no.
 22:05:52 <JackyAlcine> I'm assuming that everyone has signed the CoC (Code of Conduct) upon of making their Launchpad?
 22:05:58 <UndiFineD> so who does want to get their hands dirty with that ?
 22:06:50 <bedahr> UndiFineD: does this mean that person has to his/her computer running all the time
 22:07:02 <UndiFineD> no, not perse
 22:07:08 <UndiFineD> just for the meeting
 22:07:10 <phillw> UndiFineD: I think most have signed the CoC
 22:07:35 <bedahr> ok, I could probably take a look then
 22:07:40 <phillw> it is a general thing we ask for cross team collabartion
 22:07:41 <bedahr> (if my bandwith can handle it)
 22:08:19 <UndiFineD> #action bedahr looks into voice accessible meeting possibility
 22:08:19 * meetingology bedahr looks into voice accessible meeting possibility
 22:08:37 <ChrisDruif> bedahr: If you need someone to work with/test...I could probably help
 22:08:37 <phillw> bedahr: signing the CoC is a one off event, you do not need continuous web access to sign it.
 22:08:46 <UndiFineD> bedahr, hajour and i have a lot of upload capability
 22:08:49 <JackyAlcine> Yup, it's a one-time thing. :D
 22:08:59 <bedahr> Nah I was talking about the voice chat thing
 22:09:01 <ChrisDruif> Like listen if I can hear you :)
 22:09:09 <bedahr> not the coc signing (I did that already)
 22:09:13 <bedahr> ChrisDruif: great, thanks
 22:09:20 <leoquant> hi all
 22:09:29 <ChrisDruif> Hai leoquant :)
 22:09:42 <leoquant> sorry i am late
 22:10:00 <MichealH-iPod> I am like a little busy at the mo so I will be with you ls in a minute or so
 22:10:05 <UndiFineD> #action ChrisDruif helps testing  voice accessible meeting possibility
 22:10:05 * meetingology ChrisDruif helps testing  voice accessible meeting possibility
 22:10:45 <UndiFineD> ok, next
 22:10:59 <hajour> np leoquant happy to see you here
 22:11:08 <UndiFineD> #topic Signing the Code of Conduct
 22:11:08 <meetingology> TOPIC: Signing the Code of Conduct
 22:11:15 <ChrisDruif> Done that
 22:11:23 <UndiFineD> Sign the CoC before 2011-01-01, else hajour will remove you from the team, new member that want to sign up, have to have the CoC signed before they join. This is to ensure the quality of our team and its products.
 22:11:37 <JackyAlcine> Yup.
 22:11:38 <phillw> +1
 22:11:42 <leoquant> +1
 22:11:44 <bedahr> already signed
 22:11:45 <hajour> +1
 22:11:46 <JackyAlcine> +1
 22:12:01 <UndiFineD> wow, +1 and not even voting yet
 22:12:16 <ChrisDruif> UndiFineD: To my done that ;)
 22:12:21 <JackyAlcine> vote Who HAS signed the CoC
 22:12:38 <JackyAlcine> Should we vote on it? or is that good enough?
 22:12:41 <UndiFineD> #vote Who HAS signed the CoC
 22:12:41 <meetingology> Please vote on: Who HAS signed the CoC
 22:12:41 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 22:12:45 <UndiFineD> +1
 22:12:45 <meetingology> +1 received from UndiFineD
 22:12:47 <ChrisDruif> +1
 22:12:47 <meetingology> +1 received from ChrisDruif
 22:12:47 <bedahr> +1
 22:12:47 <meetingology> +1 received from bedahr
 22:12:48 <JackyAlcine> +1
 22:12:48 <meetingology> +1 received from JackyAlcine
 22:12:49 <leoquant> +1
 22:12:49 <meetingology> +1 received from leoquant
 22:12:51 <phillw> +1
 22:12:51 <meetingology> +1 received from phillw
 22:13:44 * UndiFineD pokes RainCT pedro3005 jdeslaur ibuclaw
 22:13:50 <pedro3005> ohai
 22:13:54 <pedro3005> +1
 22:13:54 <meetingology> +1 received from pedro3005
 22:13:57 <ChrisDruif> ;invite pedro3005
 22:13:58 <JackyAlcine> lol, pedro3005 MADE a meeting :D
 22:13:59 <DragonEyes> ChrisDruif: You do not have a high enough user level and/or privleges in this channel to use that command!
 22:14:21 <MichealH> +1
 22:14:21 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH
 22:14:25 <ibuclaw> +1
 22:14:25 <meetingology> +1 received from ibuclaw
 22:14:39 <MichealH> I have signed the CoC on LP, Is that what we are on about?
 22:14:41 <hajour> +1
 22:14:41 <meetingology> +1 received from hajour
 22:14:49 <UndiFineD> #endvote
 22:14:49 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Who HAS signed the CoC
 22:14:49 <meetingology> Votes for:10 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0
 22:14:49 <meetingology> Motion carried
 22:14:55 <JackyAlcine> Yeah, MichealH
 22:15:04 <MichealH> Definate +1 :D
 22:15:18 <ChrisDruif> Vote ended MichealH;)
 22:15:45 <UndiFineD> ok great
 22:16:12 <JackyAlcine> Alright, another topic to address.
 22:16:16 <UndiFineD> #topic Progress Simon Listens
 22:16:16 <meetingology> TOPIC: Progress Simon Listens
 22:16:16 <JackyAlcine> But I need RainCT to be here.
 22:16:37 <ChrisDruif> RainCT is in...maybe afk?
 22:16:42 <hajour> RainCT, ping
 22:16:52 <UndiFineD> bedahr, how are things going ?
 22:17:05 <JackyAlcine> ;invite waywardgeek
 22:17:06 <DragonEyes> JackyAlcine: You do not have a high enough user level and/or privleges in this channel to use that command!
 22:17:15 <UndiFineD> ;invite waywardgeek
 22:17:16 <JackyAlcine> Someone invite waywardgeek, please
 22:17:17 <bedahr> UndiFineD: In what department
 22:17:19 <JackyAlcine> Thanks.
 22:17:30 <UndiFineD> License situation update is the deadline (feb 14th) feasible ?
 22:17:30 <UndiFineD> if license is possbile then Extendability: API + documentation Scenarios
 22:17:36 <bedahr> I already answered any questions that arose during the last meeting...
 22:17:37 <phillw> ;invite waywardgeek
 22:18:01 <UndiFineD> bedahr, I am talking of progress, not previous meeting :)
 22:18:09 <bedahr> yes, I read the agenda but I really don't know what to tell you; I can tell you everything about simons licensis and problems they might cause but ultimately is a packagers opinion that matters
 22:18:48 <UndiFineD> and such a person is RainCT
 22:18:53 <bedahr> if the current licenses are a problem than the february deadline might be hard to meet
 22:18:57 <bedahr> UndiFineD: excactly
 22:19:16 <phillw> I also think that the devs should have a session together, when they are available.
 22:19:25 <JackyAlcine> Our target release date should be aiming for 11.04
 22:19:27 <bedahr> phillw: +1
 22:19:46 <UndiFineD> and how about: Julius - port patches + cmake? from simon listens (RainCT)
 22:20:04 <phillw> JackyAlcine: realistically, I do not think that is possible.
 22:20:04 <hajour> yes i agree with phillw for a  dev meeting
 22:20:12 <RainCT> hey
 22:20:20 <leoquant> hi RainCT
 22:20:25 <hajour> glad you are here RainCT
 22:20:43 <JackyAlcine> Hey, RainCT.
 22:21:14 <JackyAlcine> phillw: 11.04? That's like a year and change from now, if my math's not acting up.
 22:21:16 <MichealH-iPod> We should all have a meeting AFTER the devs session
 22:21:18 <bedahr> RainCT: hi
 22:21:31 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine, your math is
 22:21:41 <JackyAlcine> lol.
 22:21:45 <phillw> JackyAlcine: 11.10 is an achievable goal, as the cut off of a few weeks is not really going to happen and we need possible goals.
 22:21:55 <JackyAlcine> Okay then.
 22:22:05 <MichealH-iPod> So we all have a meeting as devs then the rest have a meeting
 22:22:15 <UndiFineD> we need to know if we can get Simon Listens into debian by feb 1st, and that includes julius issues
 22:22:39 <JackyAlcine> So, all developers will speak with me on terms of short-term goals and possible target dates after this meeting.
 22:22:39 <ChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: 11.04 is a half year away...even less...repo close on 14th of February
 22:22:54 * JackyAlcine makes a note of this.
 22:23:41 <MichealH-iPod> That would mean 1 month of SOLID development
 22:23:42 * RainCT finishes reading the log
 22:24:05 <MichealH-iPod> Why not 11.10?
 22:24:17 <phillw> but, I'm only a wiki person. If the team wish to hold a vote I will support it, but as the MOTU's I know are really busy, I am wary of asking their good will to this project.
 22:24:18 <UndiFineD> bedahr, has a working julius with patches, I think it should be possible to have them integrated with official julius
 22:24:25 <JackyAlcine> Okay, so everyone that's a developer on this IRC needs to vote, so I can make a list of that.
 22:24:41 <JackyAlcine> #vote Developer of SpeechControl
 22:24:41 <meetingology> Please vote on: Developer of SpeechControl
 22:24:41 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 22:24:46 <JackyAlcine> +1
 22:24:46 <meetingology> +1 received from JackyAlcine
 22:24:47 <ChrisDruif> MichealH-iPod: We want is asap, so we're shooting for 11.04
 22:24:50 <UndiFineD> so if bedahr and RainCT solve this for feb 1st, there is one less issue for debian to trip over
 22:24:57 <phillw> -1
 22:24:57 <meetingology> -1 received from phillw
 22:25:05 <MichealH-iPod> Is his for the IRC part also?
 22:25:05 <bedahr> +1
 22:25:05 <meetingology> +1 received from bedahr
 22:25:11 <pedro3005> well I can help with python
 22:25:12 <pedro3005> +1
 22:25:12 <meetingology> +1 received from pedro3005
 22:25:14 <ChrisDruif> +0
 22:25:22 <UndiFineD> +0
 22:25:22 <RainCT> I'm unsure about the "external GPL code that Simon links to needs to have the same exception". Does Simon have any GPL (not LGPL) dependencies?
 22:25:22 <MichealH-iPod> +1
 22:25:22 <meetingology> +1 received from MichealH-iPod
 22:25:22 <leoquant> +0
 22:25:34 <bedahr> RainCT: yes, Julius
 22:25:35 <hajour> +0
 22:25:40 <JackyAlcine> RainCT: That's Julius.
 22:25:41 <ChrisDruif> +0 doesn't work?
 22:25:43 <MichealH-iPod> I am developing a section for the project
 22:25:53 <JackyAlcine> okay.
 22:25:54 <JackyAlcine> #endvote
 22:25:54 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Developer of SpeechControl
 22:25:54 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:1 Abstentions:0
 22:25:54 <meetingology> Motion carried
 22:25:58 <RainCT> +1 but I can't promise I'll have much time, so maybe +0
 22:26:01 <JackyAlcine> Thanks.
 22:26:03 <JackyAlcine> >_<
 22:26:04 <JackyAlcine> lol.
 22:26:17 <bedahr> err, Julius is BSD style, I mean; GPL dependencies... I think parts of kde are still GPL
 22:26:18 <JackyAlcine> I'll append you to the list with an asterisk, RainCT
 22:26:19 <RainCT> I mean other than Julius :)
 22:26:20 <bedahr> but I'm not sure
 22:26:33 <ChrisDruif> phillw: You need to look into voting ;)
 22:26:41 <JackyAlcine> Oh, I don't know off the top of my head RainCT.
 22:27:08 <hajour> ChrisDruif, you a programmer
 22:27:10 <RainCT> That's the only thing I'm concerned about, other than that there should be no problem getting Simon into contrib
 22:27:35 <MichealH-iPod> I am developing a IRC Bot for the SpeechControl to use so that would need to be 11.10 unfortunatly
 22:28:16 <MichealH-iPod> I would need to see the inners of the app to get it fully functioning with IRC
 22:31:29 <RainCT> bedahr: Yeah (help would be appreciated :))
 22:31:51 <UndiFineD> great :)
 22:32:07 <phillw> hajour: it is up to the devs, but python works across all flavours of ubuntu.
 22:32:22 <UndiFineD> I hope you two can manage this
 22:32:31 <MichealH-iPod> And most of us can Code in Python
 22:32:32 <hajour> yes thats why that is dev.meeting discusion
 22:32:34 <UndiFineD> that would be a big step
 22:32:54 <ChrisDruif> Hence I voted +0 ;)
 22:33:23 <ChrisDruif> Is the meeting going again?
 22:33:38 <MichealH-iPod> What we really need to do is learn of other peoples mistakes
 22:33:39 <ChrisDruif> Or do we need to restart it?
 22:33:54 <meetingology> phillw: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.
 22:33:59 <MichealH-iPod> Put some research into it
 22:34:11 <UndiFineD> #topic Artificial Intelligence
 22:34:11 <meetingology> TOPIC: Artificial Intelligence
 22:34:25 <MichealH-iPod> THEN we develop
 22:34:27 <phillw> ChrisDruif: it's a hardy robot :)
 22:34:54 <ChrisDruif> Indeed...
 22:34:57 <phillw> hi AlanBell
 22:35:05 <UndiFineD> AlanBell, :P wb with meetingology
 22:35:07 <hajour> wb AlanBell
 22:35:10 <ChrisDruif> AI, what can be said about it JackyAlcine?
 22:35:21 <MichealH-iPod> AlanBell: Our meeting is messed up?
 22:35:37 <hajour> UndiFineD> #topic Artificial Intelligence
 22:35:48 <ChrisDruif> MichealH-iPod: Just a bit I think...
 22:36:03 <MichealH-iPod> A little yeah
 22:36:06 <ChrisDruif> Back to topic...
 22:36:10 <hajour> can we stay by the topic?
 22:36:21 <AlanBell> MichealH-iPod: power went out here
 22:36:44 <ChrisDruif> Welcome waywardgeek :)
 22:36:47 <waywardgeek> Sorry I'm late!  Had to feed critters.
 22:36:50 <AlanBell> I *think* it will try to carry on
 22:36:51 <hajour> great you are here waywardgeek
 22:36:57 <waywardgeek> thx
 22:36:58 <JackyAlcine> Waywardgeek, please stick around for the development meeting.
 22:37:00 <phillw> there are some topics and areas for AI, the boys on ##devil are working on some stuff.
 22:37:07 <waywardgeek> ok
 22:37:11 <UndiFineD> Ok, I have spoken with some opensuse people, they will look if they have some interested people in this too. (google summer of code, NLP)
 22:37:30 <MichealH-iPod> I made a tiny bit of AI for my bot
 22:37:50 <MichealH-iPod> Ask IAmNotThatGuy about it
 22:38:08 <MichealH-iPod> He has implemented AI into DragonEyes
 22:38:10 <JackyAlcine> Could I see your bot during the development meeting, MichealH-iPod?
 22:38:37 <phillw> MichealH-iPod: he is the one I'm thinking about :) along with pedro3005
 22:38:47 <UndiFineD> also, I gave some links to JackyAlcine on this
 22:38:55 <bedahr> what about AIMLs? they are already pretty standard
 22:39:04 <JackyAlcine> ;gdefine AIML
 22:39:08 <DragonEyes> JackyAlcine: AIML, or Artificial Intelligence Markup Language, is an XML dialect for creating natural language software agents.
 22:39:14 <MichealH-iPod> JackyAcline, Yes but the bot AI is a little rusty ;) But I would be happy to boot it up
 22:39:24 <JackyAlcine> That's interesting, bedahr.
 22:39:34 <bedahr> there are some good libraries that implement AIML parsing; There is a simon plugin that can parse AIMLs
 22:39:37 <bedahr> (the AI plugin)
 22:39:59 <MichealH-iPod> Intresting
 22:40:00 <JackyAlcine> What's a good library, preferably in C++/C# that can parse AIML?
 22:40:04 <JackyAlcine> ^^ bedahr
 22:40:15 <UndiFineD> AIML is one thing, I am talking of actual AI, I dumped some links on how HTK / HMM is actually made
 22:40:33 <UndiFineD> so we could have an F/OSS version
 22:41:29 <JackyAlcine> a simple ANN could overlay dots on the wave form, and do recognition that way
 22:41:29 <JackyAlcine> something like this: http://www.codeproject.com/KB/recipes/HopfieldNeuralNetwork.aspx
 22:41:33 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: we use "aimlparser" (C++/Qt)
 22:41:43 * JackyAlcine makes another note.
 22:42:09 <bedahr> shouldn't we start with something simple before we go into full on ten-year-plan cutting edge research?
 22:42:10 <ChrisDruif> #link http://www.codeproject.com/KB/recipes/HopfieldNeuralNetwork.aspx
 22:42:45 <ChrisDruif> I agree bedahr :)
 22:42:57 <UndiFineD> true, one step at a time
 22:42:57 <JackyAlcine> Lol, yeahh bedahr.
 22:43:34 <ChrisDruif> meetingology  was from AlanBell right? I would like a confirmation if I add a link ;)
 22:43:34 <meetingology> ChrisDruif: Error: "was" is not a valid command.
 22:43:49 <UndiFineD> #link http://www.codeproject.com/KB/recipes/HopfieldNeuralNetwork.aspx
 22:43:52 <JackyAlcine> #link http://www.codeproject.com/KB/recipes/HopfieldNeuralNetwork.aspx
 22:43:59 <JackyAlcine> lol.
 22:44:02 <UndiFineD> bot aint listening
 22:44:05 <AlanBell> ChrisDruif: I am not sure if it is picking up the meeting where it left off or not
 22:44:17 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Dec 28 22:44:17 2010 UTC.  The chair is JackyAlcine. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
 22:44:17 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.
 22:44:21 <AlanBell> it was
 22:44:26 <JackyAlcine> #link http://www.codeproject.com/KB/recipes/HopfieldNeuralNetwork.aspx
 22:44:31 <AlanBell> it only speaks when it has something useful to say
 22:44:44 <AlanBell> repeating what you just said isn't useful so it doesn't
 22:44:55 <UndiFineD> #topic Progess Sonic
 22:45:00 <UndiFineD> waywardgeek, ?
 22:45:03 <waywardgeek> ok
 22:45:20 <JackyAlcine> I'm curious about your work with openMary.
 22:45:21 <AlanBell> UndiFineD: only the chair can do topics
 22:45:28 <waywardgeek> I've talked to the OpenMary developer, and I think I can integrate some good voices from OpenMary into speech-dispatcher.
 22:45:33 <ChrisDruif> BRB y'all..gotta test something already for bedahr ;)
 22:45:33 <JackyAlcine> and the Sonic integration.
 22:45:43 <JackyAlcine> #chair UndiFineD
 22:45:43 <meetingology> Current chairs: JackyAlcine UndiFineD
 22:45:51 <UndiFineD> #topic Progess Sonic
 22:45:51 <meetingology> TOPIC: Progess Sonic
 22:45:52 <JackyAlcine> #topic Progress of Sonic
 22:45:52 <meetingology> TOPIC: Progress of Sonic
 22:45:52 <waywardgeek> So the ball's in my court.  I also did some speed tests, and OpenMary sounds a lot better with sonic speed-up.
 22:46:17 <UndiFineD> great
 22:46:19 <waywardgeek> Sina was able to understand OpenMary at 6X speeds.
 22:46:27 <JackyAlcine> Could you record some audio or a screencast and upload so we can see such results?
 22:46:28 <waywardgeek> So, I'm pretty excited about it.
 22:46:45 <UndiFineD> *hear
 22:46:48 <waywardgeek> Sure... already have some samples, I'll go find them.
 22:47:27 <JackyAlcine> Awesome.
 22:48:17 <JackyAlcine> Now, another side-idea.
 22:48:29 <JackyAlcine> #topic Porting of Simon to GNOME (gSimon)?
 22:48:29 <meetingology> TOPIC: Porting of Simon to GNOME (gSimon)?
 22:49:03 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: didn't we already discuss this in the last meeting?
 22:49:32 <JackyAlcine> Yes, but did we come to an agreement on what we'd do about it?
 22:49:42 <waywardgeek> Got them uploaded.
 22:50:02 <UndiFineD> Simon is developed in Qt, which runs fine on gnome too
 22:50:14 <waywardgeek> Try http://vinux-project.org/1x.wav
 22:50:18 <waywardgeek> And 2x.wav
 22:50:19 * JackyAlcine smacks himself on shouder.
 22:50:22 <waywardgeek> 3x.wav, etc
 22:50:43 <ChrisDruif> #link http://vinux-project.org/1x.wav
 22:51:09 <UndiFineD> thanks waywardgeek
 22:51:13 <waywardgeek> yw
 22:51:37 <hajour> great to hear there is progress
 22:51:49 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: as far as I recall we did decide to keep the KDE app as is and additionally implement a minimal simon client
 22:52:03 * JackyAlcine makes a note.
 22:52:14 <waywardgeek> I think this voice sounds like she's holding her nose, but that's common for LPC compressed voice.
 22:52:16 <bedahr> (someone back me up on this, please)
 22:52:38 <JackyAlcine> Lol, waywardgeek. Have you tried the Spike german voice? Sounds natural with English.
 22:52:41 <UndiFineD> bedahr, yes i think we said so
 22:52:57 <hajour> agree bedahr
 22:53:41 <JackyAlcine> Alright, so what else do we need to address?
 22:54:39 <ChrisDruif> bedahr: It should be viewable in the notes of last meeting then ;)
 22:54:47 <waywardgeek> I made some progress on cleaning up speech signal
 22:55:11 <waywardgeek> http://vinux-project.org/ola-hann
 22:56:07 <RainCT> o_O /me doesn't understand a single word at 3x :P
 22:56:19 <bedahr> RainCT: +1
 22:56:29 <UndiFineD> waywardgeek, that is noice reduction right ?
 22:56:51 <waywardgeek> Yep
 22:56:58 <UndiFineD> wow, nice
 22:57:02 <hajour> great
 22:57:08 <UndiFineD> #link http://vinux-project.org/ola-hann
 22:57:24 <MichealH-iPod> So is there anything else we need to discuss?
 22:57:27 <JackyAlcine> How about natural language processing?
 22:57:46 <UndiFineD> yes, we need more people i think
 22:57:55 <UndiFineD> that cover that area
 22:58:07 <ChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: I think that is something for the developers meeting?
 22:58:16 <JackyAlcine> It is, ChrisDruif
 22:58:35 <bedahr> I'm not too sure
 22:58:45 <bedahr> are we out of the "get more people" stage already?
 22:58:56 <bedahr> (that is something non-techy)
 22:59:19 <UndiFineD> bedahr, I mean peopl that know NLP
 22:59:25 <bedahr> there were talks about a kde nlp framework called liquid but I don't know if something came of it
 22:59:32 <JackyAlcine> NLP is more of another wing of programming.
 22:59:42 <JackyAlcine> It's more of a proof-of-concept kind of proect
 22:59:51 <JackyAlcine> *project.
 23:00:18 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: hm... There also was some addition to nepomuk that did a bit of nlp
 23:00:25 <bedahr> like spot nouns in text, etc.
 23:00:48 <JackyAlcine> That's a project I'm working on for my personal improvement.
 23:00:57 <JackyAlcine> It's part of a larger project I've been working on.
 23:00:58 <UndiFineD> ~gdefine nepomuk
 23:01:12 <JackyAlcine> But all NLP stuff was under Taylor.Language.
 23:01:16 <JackyAlcine> ;gdefine nepomuk
 23:01:21 <DragonEyes> JackyAlcine: Nepomuk (; Pomuk) is a town in the Pilsen Region of the Czech Republic. It lies on the Mihovka River, some to the south-southwest from the region capital of Pilsen.
 23:01:28 <JackyAlcine> ;gdefine nepomuk 1
 23:01:35 <DragonEyes> Error.  The syntax for that command is: gdefine <phrase>
 23:01:45 <UndiFineD> lol
 23:01:50 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: http://nepomuk.kde.org/
 23:01:50 <JackyAlcine> ;gdefine 1 nepomuk
 23:01:52 <hajour> hehe
 23:01:56 <JackyAlcine> lol, that works bedahr
 23:01:57 <DragonEyes> Error.  The syntax for that command is: gdefine <phrase>
 23:02:06 <bedahr> it's part of the semantic desktop offering of KDE
 23:02:15 <bedahr> it was an EU project once
 23:03:35 <bedahr> also probably more than interested in the nlp part fo the project: http://www.semanticdesktop.org/
 23:04:18 <JackyAlcine> Interesting, bedahr. That's something that could and apparently is catching ground.
 23:04:29 <UndiFineD> ok that is new to me
 23:04:32 <JackyAlcine> #link http://nepomuk.kde.org
 23:04:55 <UndiFineD> #link http://www.semanticdesktop.org/
 23:04:58 <bedahr> nepomuk ships by default with KDE (enabled by default as well)
 23:05:06 <bedahr> sebastian trueg is probably the guy to talk to
 23:05:32 <UndiFineD> well, if you can, invite hime :)
 23:05:45 <JackyAlcine> Not now, of course. lol.
 23:07:24 <hajour> well before the dev. meeting it should be handy i think
 23:07:54 <UndiFineD> ok any other business topic now ?
 23:08:15 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine, ?
 23:08:42 <UndiFineD> #topic any other business
 23:08:42 <meetingology> TOPIC: any other business
 23:08:44 <JackyAlcine> None that I see so far, everything else is developer-orientated.
 23:09:24 <UndiFineD> hajour, is typing
 23:10:23 <hajour> in the dev. meeting there need to be clear who works on what for all programmers.and don't forget the mentees
 23:10:38 <UndiFineD> actionable items thus
 23:10:47 <UndiFineD> for all
 23:10:53 <JackyAlcine> Alright, then.
 23:11:19 <UndiFineD> #topic next dev meeting
 23:11:19 <meetingology> TOPIC: next dev meeting
 23:11:27 <UndiFineD> when ?
 23:11:55 <JackyAlcine> It could be at 2:00 UTC Dec 28, if that's not too early/late.
 23:11:59 <JackyAlcine> *Dec 29
 23:12:17 <bedahr> that would be 3:00 CET...
 23:12:24 <UndiFineD> tomorrow at 03.00 am in the morning ...
 23:12:28 <ChrisDruif> So in 3 hours?
 23:12:38 <bedahr> too late for me...
 23:12:41 <ChrisDruif> Today at 3am
 23:12:42 <hajour> mm its ight here
 23:12:45 <ChrisDruif> ;)
 23:12:46 <JackyAlcine> lol. >_<
 23:12:47 <hajour> night
 23:12:49 <DragonEyes> OMG! A wink!
 23:13:00 <UndiFineD> DragonEyes: hush
 23:13:03 <DragonEyes> UndiFineD: Not many people express themselves that way. What is your favorite movie?
 23:13:17 <JackyAlcine> Uhm, 20:00 Dec 29 then.
 23:13:20 <UndiFineD> ok.. some otherr time ....
 23:13:21 <ChrisDruif> Just let him go UndiFineD ;)
 23:13:34 <JackyAlcine> Time here in New York is so off compared to UTC time.
 23:13:35 <phillw> as you know, I'm a Lubutunteer, so all I ask is that we keep solutions available across the entire Ubuntu family, and hopefully Linux
 23:14:02 <UndiFineD> phillw, yes we all want that
 23:14:12 <bedahr> phillw: As I am using KDE/arch I agree :)
 23:14:13 <ChrisDruif> Agreed :)
 23:14:15 <phillw> JackyAlcine: You're about +5GMT from memory
 23:14:28 <JackyAlcine> -5 GMT.
 23:14:40 <JackyAlcine> it's only 6pm over here.
 23:14:43 <phillw> JackyAlcine: I was close :P
 23:14:49 <JackyAlcine> lol :D
 23:15:02 <UndiFineD> ok time!
 23:15:02 <ChrisDruif> phillw: Only 10 hours of :D
 23:15:31 <UndiFineD> tomorrow 20:00 UTC was propsed by JackyAlcine
 23:15:42 <UndiFineD> is that alright
 23:15:46 <phillw> ChrisDruif: I got the number correct,
 23:15:59 <ChrisDruif> Yeah O:-)
 23:16:08 <phillw> UndiFineD: is that for the devs?
 23:16:12 <UndiFineD> yes
 23:16:12 <hajour> yes
 23:16:44 <bedahr> -1... The earliest I can is probably 2. 1... But you don't need me for this anyways, right?
 23:16:48 <phillw> the devs meet up any time that they can :D
 23:17:12 <UndiFineD> bedahr, why not ?
 23:17:36 <UndiFineD> maybe you want to discuss some itmes with RainCT ?
 23:17:47 <bedahr> yes, probably
 23:18:03 <phillw> I am a lowly slave, who tries his best to translate dev speak into something I can document up :P
 23:18:12 <bedahr> RainCT: what time zone are you in / when do you usually have free time?
 23:18:21 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine, I think we need a doodle for this
 23:18:27 <JackyAlcine> yupp.
 23:18:30 <phillw> bedahr: RainCT is in France
 23:18:45 <bedahr> oh alright that's like right around the corner :)
 23:19:13 * UndiFineD looks around the corner
 23:19:39 <RainCT> bedahr: Barcelona, UTC+1
 23:19:46 <hajour> UndiFineD,  and i are from Netherland
 23:20:05 <phillw> bedahr: it is a very small world, I exchanged messages with him when he developed an GUI for espaeak.
 23:20:07 <JackyAlcine> http://doodle.com/vqngp7bkxrtyyy2a
 23:20:14 <UndiFineD> ehm, so some multiple days, time range 14:00 - 22:00 UTC
 23:20:25 <JackyAlcine> That link is the Doodle for scheduling times.
 23:21:06 <bedahr> phillw: I wasn't being sarcastic, he is in the same timezone
 23:21:40 <RainCT> Whom is that for? Anything 14-22 is fine with me
 23:21:47 <RainCT> Where are you from bedahr?
 23:21:53 <bedahr> RainCT: Austria
 23:21:57 <JackyAlcine> The developers, RainCT
 23:22:10 <bedahr> well during the day is fine tomorrow...
 23:22:11 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine, can you adjust it ?
 23:22:23 <JackyAlcine> How so?
 23:22:42 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: I just have plans in the evening...
 23:22:45 <RainCT> bedahr: Oh, great. Feel free to speak German then :p
 23:22:59 <UndiFineD> well, people have to work and times have to cooperate with GMT and gmt-5
 23:23:09 <bedahr> RainCT: you speak German?
 23:24:05 <RainCT> bedahr: Yup, I'm German (from my father's side, my mother is Catalan). Written I'm more fluent in English though.
 23:24:06 <JackyAlcine> http://doodle.com/vqngp7bkxrtyyy2a (updated)
 23:24:35 <UndiFineD> better :)
 23:25:00 <hajour> can everyone fill in the time on the doodle plz
 23:25:16 <ChrisDruif> hajour: Only devs right?
 23:25:19 <UndiFineD> yes
 23:25:30 <UndiFineD> I will be there too
 23:26:11 <ChrisDruif> Everyone who voted +1 in the dev vote should fill in the doodle @  http://doodle.com/vqngp7bkxrtyyy2a
 23:26:40 <UndiFineD> #link http://doodle.com/vqngp7bkxrtyyy2a
 23:26:46 <ChrisDruif> I will fill in as well...thou I'm not a programmer, I'd like to follow the discussion :)
 23:28:19 <bedahr> About my assignment from earlier: Does the accessible chat solution have to be free as in speech or is free as in beer sufficient (teamspeak, skype, etc.)
 23:28:21 <hajour> there i and UndiFineD  live in 1 house i watch on his screen. for the dev. meeting.
 23:28:41 <UndiFineD> bedahr, teamspeak or skype will be fine
 23:29:33 <UndiFineD> it is a mater of principle, making accessible meetings for accessible projects
 23:29:41 <bedahr> ok... Mumble works fine but ChrisDruif tells me the quality isn't quite good...
 23:29:52 <UndiFineD> yes
 23:30:07 <ChrisDruif> Well...it's good enough....but can be much better I think :)
 23:30:10 <hajour> i agree with ChrisDruif
 23:30:13 <phillw> hajour: I will try to attend if the meeting is outside of 16:00 - 20:00 GMT, else i can only log.
 23:30:33 <hajour> not good enough
 23:30:39 <JackyAlcine> It'll range the entire day; I'll do my best to carry information to and fro each session.
 23:31:03 <hajour> its not understandable mumble
 23:31:18 <JackyAlcine> Mumble's a lost cause, >_<
 23:31:24 <JackyAlcine> We'll use Skype or Teamspeak.
 23:31:46 <hajour> phillw, JackyAlcine  is for the dev.
 23:32:22 <UndiFineD> it is time to end this meeting i think
 23:32:44 <ChrisDruif> Agreed
 23:32:56 <hajour> Agreed
 23:33:02 <ChrisDruif> #endmeeting
 23:33:23 <UndiFineD> hey rx007
 23:33:26 <hajour> hai rx007
 23:33:35 <ChrisDruif> Hmmm...only chair can endmeeting I think ;)
 23:33:35 <UndiFineD> just in time to miss the meeting
 23:33:37 <rx007> hello everyone! :)
 23:33:45 <ChrisDruif> Hai rx007 :)
 23:33:48 <UndiFineD> #endmeeting
</pre>

Meeting ended at 23:33:48 UTC.

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
