{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by JackyAlcine at 22:01:19 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/speechcontrol/2010/speechcontrol.2010-12-30-22.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Introduction
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Meetings/20101228   (JackyAlcine, 22:04:37)

* Languages

* Developing and Testing

Meeting ended at 22:41:58 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

 22:10:32 <JackyAlcine> #note Mohi and pedro3005 are proficient in Python
 22:14:03 <JackyAlcine> #note Python & C++ bindings to openMary HTTP server.
 22:29:04 <JackyAlcine> #note 5 projects underway (python-openmary, c++-openmary, python-speech-dispatcher, speech-dispatcher-openmary)
 22:29:18 <JackyAlcine> #note cont. and simon-python
Edit .. ChrisDuff is going to investigate PPA stuff.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* JackyAlcine (87)
* UndiFineD (23)
* ChrisDruif (11)
* phillw (7)
* meetingology (7)
* pedro3005 (6)
* hajour (5)
* MichealH (1)
* DragonEyes (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>
 22:01:19 <JackyAlcine> #startmeeting
 22:01:19 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Dec 30 22:01:19 2010 UTC.  The chair is JackyAlcine. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
 22:01:19 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.
 22:01:23 <phillw> who is charing the meeting?
 22:01:28 <JackyAlcine> #chair JackyAlcine
 22:01:28 <meetingology> Current chairs: JackyAlcine
 22:01:40 * JackyAlcine now you know ;)
 22:01:53 <JackyAlcine> #topic Introduction
 22:01:53 <meetingology> TOPIC: Introduction
 22:02:07 <JackyAlcine> This is a developers' meeting for the SpeechControl team.
 22:02:40 <JackyAlcine> The sole purpose of this team is to get at least a calender of short-term goals to look to.
 22:03:10 <JackyAlcine> ;invite bedahr
 22:03:11 <DragonEyes> JackyAlcine: You do not have a high enough user level and/or privleges in this channel to use that command!
 22:03:16 <JackyAlcine> -_- right.
 22:03:28 <UndiFineD> ;invite bedahr
 22:03:32 <phillw> ;invite bedahr
 22:03:38 <UndiFineD> heh
 22:03:53 <pedro3005> well I might have some minutes more.
 22:04:32 <JackyAlcine> We addressed a few things related to development during our last meeting.
 22:04:37 <JackyAlcine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Meetings/20101228
 22:05:06 <JackyAlcine> This won't be long.
 22:05:24 <JackyAlcine> I just need to know who CAN do what, and who's willing to do WHAT for any given need
 22:05:39 <JackyAlcine> Now, for literal programmers.. what languages do we have?
 22:05:49 <JackyAlcine> And what would be our most preferred? (Python)
 22:06:16 * JackyAlcine looks around.
 22:06:40 <UndiFineD> I have always said, python would be our best bet regarding interfaces, and C/C++ for high speed internals
 22:06:49 <ChrisDruif> Silent suggestion, good job JackyAlcine ;)
 22:07:17 <JackyAlcine> lol. :D
 22:07:44 <ChrisDruif> Please continue, don't mind me :)
 22:07:47 <JackyAlcine> I've been spending time looking at the such and Python has exceeded the needs for flexibility, speed and RAD.
 22:08:00 <JackyAlcine> So that's down.
 22:08:08 <JackyAlcine> #topic Languages
 22:08:08 <meetingology> TOPIC: Languages
 22:08:48 <JackyAlcine> My question to you all is; who KNOWS Python? This way, assignments (when made available) can be quickly dished out.
 22:09:00 <JackyAlcine> I'm taking the liberty of self-teaching myself a bit of Python.
 22:09:09 <JackyAlcine> As well as hardening my C++ skills.
 22:09:34 * phillw stares at pedro3005
 22:09:37 <ChrisDruif> pedro3005 is your friend JackyAlcine ;)
 22:09:41 <UndiFineD> I am still learning
 22:09:52 <pedro3005> oh hey
 22:10:01 <phillw> mohi is possibly also available.
 22:10:11 <UndiFineD> mohi is sleeping
 22:10:25 <JackyAlcine> #NOTE Mohi and pedro3005 are proficient in Python
 22:10:27 <phillw> that does not stop him getting kidnapped
 22:10:32 <JackyAlcine> #note Mohi and pedro3005 are proficient in Python
 22:10:42 * JackyAlcine scratches head.
 22:10:53 <UndiFineD> meetingology is mostly silent
 22:10:53 <meetingology> UndiFineD: Error: "is" is not a valid command.
 22:11:03 <JackyAlcine> lol, oh yeah.
 22:11:55 <JackyAlcine> Okay, now as for
 22:12:02 <UndiFineD> MichealH: around ?
 22:12:17 <JackyAlcine> I just pinged him.
 22:12:34 <MichealH> UndiFineD: I am real busy GRR :rips out hair:
 22:12:47 <UndiFineD> sorry
 22:12:58 <JackyAlcine> There isn't much to address; due to the fact that we haven't gotten much to work with.
 22:13:06 <JackyAlcine> OH!
 22:13:19 <JackyAlcine> Python bindings to openMary!
 22:13:37 <JackyAlcine> I've been working to develop a C++ library that would communicate the openMary server.
 22:13:48 <JackyAlcine> But a Python binding would be handy as well.
 22:14:03 <JackyAlcine> #note Python & C++ bindings to openMary HTTP server.
 22:14:13 <ChrisDruif> Yes, if our primary language is going to be python, that should be very handy ;)
 22:15:17 * UndiFineD mumbles curl
 22:15:53 <JackyAlcine> I wish MichealH was around; but another thing is AI.
 22:16:21 <JackyAlcine> We can start working on the intelligence backend of the project at least via UML..
 22:17:44 <UndiFineD> well, as simon already does the things up to commanding
 22:18:03 <UndiFineD> we need some way to get output
 22:18:04 <JackyAlcine> Simon's more of a if X then Y kind of system.
 22:18:16 * JackyAlcine ducks if bedahr saw.
 22:18:23 <JackyAlcine> And yeah, true true..
 22:18:31 <JackyAlcine> It has to be S.I.M.P.L.E
 22:19:32 <hajour> o/
 22:20:01 <JackyAlcine> Since openMary uses HTTP as a communication port,
 22:20:04 <UndiFineD> so application so output work is getting to know what is done, and make some sensible wording for it
 22:20:50 <JackyAlcine> we can use SSML (Speech Synthesis Markup Langauge) since it understands that and just OOP it.
 22:20:55 <UndiFineD> sorry my mind is skipping
 22:20:57 <JackyAlcine> if you can OOP in Python.
 22:21:07 <pedro3005> of course you can OOP in python >.>
 22:23:18 <JackyAlcine> Lol, hey I'm naive when it comes to Python; still learning.
 22:24:11 <pedro3005> well I must go now
 22:24:16 <pedro3005> I"ll read the logs later
 22:24:17 <pedro3005> see ya
 22:24:21 <JackyAlcine> No problem.
 22:24:22 <JackyAlcine> o/
 22:24:32 <JackyAlcine> Okay, so that's settled.
 22:25:09 <JackyAlcine> waywardgeek's working on Sonic + openMary; maybe that can be tweaked a bit more as well.
 22:25:58 <JackyAlcine> Currently, one project's at end.
 22:26:09 <JackyAlcine> Well, two.
 22:26:15 <JackyAlcine> python-openmary
 22:26:17 <JackyAlcine> and
 22:26:25 <JackyAlcine> c++-openmary
 22:27:11 <UndiFineD> still need simon-python
 22:27:21 <JackyAlcine> Yes, totally forgot about that.
 22:27:35 <UndiFineD> and python-speech-dispatcher
 22:27:59 <UndiFineD> and speech-dispatcher-openmary
 22:28:19 * JackyAlcine rubs head. Got to sleep more often
 22:28:28 <UndiFineD> hehe
 22:28:29 <JackyAlcine> Alright, that makes 5 projects.
 22:28:31 <JackyAlcine> lol
 22:28:33 <hajour> hehe
 22:28:35 <UndiFineD> plenty to do
 22:29:04 <JackyAlcine> #note 5 projects underway (python-openmary, c++-openmary, python-speech-dispatcher, speech-dispatcher-openmary)
 22:29:18 <JackyAlcine> #note cont. and simon-python
 22:29:57 <JackyAlcine> Okay, so we have a handful of projects.
 22:30:07 <JackyAlcine> We can dish these projects out via voting.
 22:30:45 * JackyAlcine looks around.
 22:30:53 <hajour> mentees can voteto where they want to work on .learning while doing and looking
 22:31:00 <JackyAlcine> Okay then.
 22:31:00 <UndiFineD> well, it seems to me, we are already working on 2, lets do that and continue later
 22:31:27 <JackyAlcine> UndiFineD: the openMary extensions?
 22:31:33 * ChrisDruif wonders what JackyAlcine is looking for O:-)
 22:31:45 * JackyAlcine looks for more developers..
 22:31:59 * JackyAlcine realizes power is in quality, not number.
 22:32:39 <JackyAlcine> Alrighty then, I'll dedicate time and effort to the c++-openmary end, and I might throw in a mono-openmary for other developers that may want to use it.
 22:32:45 <ChrisDruif> Agreed...just look at the GIMP project....2,5 active devs :P
 22:32:49 <UndiFineD> it is a shame John from Janet has not been around yet
 22:33:13 <JackyAlcine> Is it possible to get the developers a sub-page on the team's wiki?
 22:33:53 <JackyAlcine> If so, I  can list all of the projects there and a detailed description, signup column and requirements for it there.
 22:34:13 <JackyAlcine> Now, for PPAs.
 22:34:24 <JackyAlcine> Although PPAs is more of a long term goal;
 22:34:52 <ChrisDruif> Why? It's very handy to have a testing PPA...
 22:35:11 <JackyAlcine> if we finish the python-openmary and c++-openmary soon enough; then it'd be beneficial to have it for testing.
 22:35:12 <JackyAlcine> lol
 22:35:19 <JackyAlcine> you got to it before me.
 22:35:47 <JackyAlcine> I don't see anything else to address..
 22:35:54 <phillw> JackyAlcine: I've been holding off on developing the wiki page too much, until acessibility decide whether to adopt us or not. But I can certainly put a sub section on for devs.
 22:36:07 <JackyAlcine> Alright then, phillw. Thank you.
 22:36:26 <ChrisDruif> We could even create 2 PPA's; one for testing and one for "stable"
 22:36:42 <UndiFineD> ;op UndiFineD
 22:36:51 <JackyAlcine> I don't know how to make PPA's, ChrisDruif.
 22:36:55 <JackyAlcine> Are you familiar with it?
 22:37:09 <JackyAlcine> #topic Developing and Testing
 22:37:09 <meetingology> TOPIC: Developing and Testing
 22:37:57 <ChrisDruif> I'm not familiar with packaging PPA's, but I'd sure like to dig into it :)
 22:38:28 <UndiFineD> how do I remove the 'f' flag from channel ?
 22:38:49 <phillw> UndiFineD: I can do that later if you wish.
 22:38:52 <JackyAlcine> Alright then, ChrisDruif.
 22:39:04 <JackyAlcine> Well, I guess that's about it.
 22:39:06 <UndiFineD> phillw: it is the reason john cannot enter
 22:39:07 <ChrisDruif> I might not going to be a active dev around here, but I want to find out for my own projects :)
 22:39:11 <hajour> undienz have say i would think about to help packaging
 22:39:12 <JackyAlcine> o.O
 22:39:35 <JackyAlcine> ChrisDruif: any WORK is plenty work. :D
 22:40:53 <JackyAlcine> undienz?
 22:41:09 <ChrisDruif> hajour: JackyAlcine: Just tell me if I need to help undienz...even if I don't know him
 22:41:30 <hajour> yes . i have talk to him a coulpe of time in ubuntu-beginners-team
 22:41:32 <JackyAlcine> lol, alright.
 22:41:44 <JackyAlcine> But for now, this meeting's adjourned..
 22:41:58 <JackyAlcine> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
