{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by UndiFineD at 23:02:18 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/speechcontrol/2010/speechcontrol.2010-12-17-23.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' http://robertfortner.posterous.com/the-unrecognized-death-of-speech-recognition   (UndiFineD, 23:19:13)
''LINK:'' getting Simon on board would be a great help, as to whether it is possible, that is different matter. I do, however think it is worth a try.  (UndiFineD, 23:29:32)
''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-mobile-voice-user-interface   (UndiFineD, 23:29:47)
''ACTION:'' RainCT patch julius with bedahr  (UndiFineD, 23:56:30)
''ACTION:'' waywardgeek looks at speeds speech with openMary  (UndiFineD, 00:28:48)
''LINK:'' http://www.cyber-byte.at/wiki/index.php/Licensing   (UndiFineD, 00:37:05)
''LINK:'' http://www.cyber-byte.at/wiki/index.php/Licensing   (UndiFineD, 00:37:10)

Meeting ended at 01:05:20 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* JackyAlcine for Development Coordinator
   For: 6 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* RainCT patch julius with bedahr
* waywardgeek looks at speeds speech with openMary

=== Action items, by person ===

* bedahr
* * RainCT patch julius with bedahr
* RainCT
* * RainCT patch julius with bedahr
* waywardgeek
* * waywardgeek looks at speeds speech with openMary

=== People present (lines said) ===

* UndiFineD (135)
* bedahr (97)
* JackyAlcine (88)
* waywardgeek (65)
* phillw (47)
* hajour (38)
* AlanBell (23)
* ChrisDruif (17)
* meetingology (16)
* DragonEyes (9)
* RainCT (7)
* pedro3005 (4)
* ibuclaw (2)
* Cheri703 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 23:02:18 <UndiFineD> #startmeeting

 23:02:18 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Dec 17 23:02:18 2010 UTC.  The chair is UndiFineD. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 23:02:18 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 23:02:33 <waywardgeek> bedahr: Hi, Peter.  Good to see you.

 23:02:47 <UndiFineD> I would like to welcome you all, it is an honour

 23:03:05 <UndiFineD> hajour is our leader

 23:03:17 <UndiFineD> but she is not a very fast typer

 23:04:11 <UndiFineD> We have quite some challenges ahead

 23:04:30 <UndiFineD> and we still have to decide on a full mission statement

 23:04:48 <UndiFineD> I like what you wrote JackyAlcine :)

 23:05:07 <JackyAlcine> :D Thank you.

 23:05:46 <UndiFineD> so maybe it is best to first introduce ourselves

 23:06:09 <phillw> ;phillw

 23:06:11 <DragonEyes> Hi, (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw) is an admin person, wiki stuff, tidying up stuff creating new entries. Passionate about Lubuntu (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu), Accessibility (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Team) and UBT (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam) Also familiar with LAMP and web stuff.

 23:06:22 <JackyAlcine> ;JackyAlcine

 23:06:27 <DragonEyes> the up-coming developer from New York that plans to bring about a new wave of computer science and information processing as we know yet. (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jackyalcine http://jdevelopthis.blogspot.com)

 23:06:38 <UndiFineD> I am UndiFineD (Keimpe de Jong) and I am supporting hajour in this project mostly

 23:06:45 <UndiFineD> ;UndiFineD

 23:06:46 <DragonEyes> (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UndiFineD) now belongs to pedro (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/pedro3005), please offer him every assistance. (His name is Keimpe)

 23:07:13 <bedahr> I don't think this will work for me so here I go: I am bedahr (Peter Grasch) and mainly work on the open source speech recognition solution simon

 23:07:49 <UndiFineD> ;hajour

 23:07:54 <DragonEyes> Manu√®la (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hajour), who is bringing in a whole load of accessibility knowledge to the (L)ubuntu project. Take the time to read her poems. phillw (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw) is proud to be her Mentor as a padawan for UBT (see ;padawan or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam).

 23:08:05 <AlanBell> I am AlanBell, an Ubuntu member and contributor to the Accessibility team

 23:08:15 <ChrisDruif> I am ChrisDruif. I'm mostly here out of general interest. Hope to be off help, but I'm not sure I can :)

 23:09:18 * RainCT is Siegfried Gevatter, Ubuntu/Debian/Zeitgeist Developer (maintaining the Julius package, for instance) and writing stupid stuff like espeak-gui :p

 23:10:00 <waywardgeek> waywardgeek: aka Bill Cox.  Big geek for waaay too long, losing central vision and motivated to help build tools I need to remain a Linux geek indefinately.

 23:10:00 <hajour> hai i am hajour leader of the team.my was told it was hard to build a program like this also impossible.i  thought it was possible.s i started this program 11dec 2010 and started to look for all the people wo ever have worked on the programs and i stil do to join. now we here to share the knowledge together on this first meeting

 23:10:19 <phillw> UndiFineD: I think that we can safely say, we have people in several teams, and I'd also like put on record our thanks for you showing interest is this team.

 23:10:28 <UndiFineD> Yorvyk ?

 23:10:35 * JackyAlcine claps in recognition.

 23:10:53 <UndiFineD> if only that would work :P

 23:11:41 <UndiFineD> We had some initial idea's like this:

 23:11:41 <UndiFineD> Keep effort to a minimum, re-use existing technology

 23:11:41 <UndiFineD> Solve potential issues

 23:11:41 <UndiFineD> Build an Accessible application to preform tasks by speech (or normal input)

 23:11:41 <UndiFineD> Have the results returned to the user (with information overload protection)

 23:11:42 <UndiFineD> Long term: startrek like communications, dictate a document

 23:12:10 <UndiFineD> but that is not a real mission ..

 23:12:42 <waywardgeek> UndifineD: I call it a "coversational interface".  Don't know if that's the right term, but I want to talk and listen to my computer.

 23:12:50 <UndiFineD> as JackyAlcine stated: Sorting out the programmers and logicians behind SpeechControl; flushing out the needed goals to accomplish, figuring out what has been done already and what to do from here.

 23:13:22 <UndiFineD> waywardgeek, that is the intention, but there more than one disabilities

 23:13:42 <UndiFineD> or handicaps

 23:13:55 <waywardgeek> UndiFinD: I think you'll find some people are very familiar with the current state.  Luke, for example.  I'm not too bad myself, but behind the guys who do this full time.

 23:14:23 <bedahr> is Luke here?

 23:14:47 <AlanBell> no

 23:14:54 <AlanBell> his nick is themuso

 23:14:59 <hajour> i dont think so bedahr

 23:15:13 <UndiFineD> so, we have a couple of works (programs) and I would like to see our efforts to be synchronized, and potential problems solved

 23:15:13 <hajour> i have invite him

 23:15:18 <bedahr> ok... I thought it might have been Yorvyk...

 23:15:40 <ibuclaw> Just thought I might chime in: http://robertfortner.posterous.com/the-unrecognized-death-of-speech-recognition

 23:16:04 <ibuclaw> I recall reading it back in May, it's likely still relevant today. =)

 23:16:35 <UndiFineD> initially, with the least amount of effort gain as much as possible

 23:16:48 <UndiFineD> RainCT, mentioned a deadline

 23:17:21 <UndiFineD> "The date to remember for Natty is Feb 24, that's feature freeze, so any new application should be in the archive by then, I'd suggest that he join the Debian accessibility team and try to push the package through, if there's no progress by mid january, feel free to ping RainCT and we'll take another look at itThe date to remember for Natty is Feb 24, that's feature freeze, so any new application should be in the archive by

 23:17:21 <UndiFineD> then, I'd suggest that he join the Debian accessibility team and try to push the package through, if there's no progress by mid january, feel free to ping RainCT and we'll take another look at it"

 23:17:34 <UndiFineD> oops double paste

 23:17:35 <phillw> bedahr: Yorvyk is steve. He's a Lubuteer, but also does get involved on other channesl. / teams.

 23:18:23 <hajour> we can look at the link from ibuclaw  later i think.

 23:18:33 <UndiFineD> next to this we have another 'dead' project on ubuntu: Voice Driven UI

 23:18:36 <bedahr> phillw: thanks

 23:18:51 <JackyAlcine> I'm examining it in a side window now, hajour; I'll PM (if needed) you some information on it as we go.

 23:18:54 <waywardgeek> ibuclaw: There are a ton of stories to tell about why accessibility progress has stalled in critical areas.  It's been something of a blood bath

 23:18:54 <UndiFineD> which has a blueprint which we might be able to take up upon

 23:19:13 <UndiFineD> #link http://robertfortner.posterous.com/the-unrecognized-death-of-speech-recognition

 23:19:20 <JackyAlcine> True, waywardgeek (+1 for wishful thinking)

 23:20:51 <JackyAlcine> * glances about.

 23:20:55 <UndiFineD> so with a little time pressure (2 months) I call for actionable items

 23:20:58 <ChrisDruif> Shouldn't meetingology confirm that a link has been added?

 23:21:10 <waywardgeek> So, here's a couple points.  I believe there are enough VI programmers out there to make incredible progress, but we don't have them organized.  The full time positions are too few to complete the job.

 23:21:12 <hajour> yes

 23:21:46 <AlanBell> ChrisDruif: it is quite a quiet bot

 23:21:46 <waywardgeek> Also, the organizations that currently lead accessibility are all handicapped in some ways.

 23:21:58 <phillw> As we are firstly seeking voice control of the Apps, gettig full dictation is the Holy Grail.

 23:22:19 <phillw> ChrisDruif: it has been added :)

 23:22:24 <JackyAlcine> phillw, that's a large-term goal; keep in mind.

 23:22:29 <ChrisDruif> Thanks phillw :)

 23:22:34 <waywardgeek> For example, FSF/GNU has an excellent effort, but they aren't able to endorse emacspeak, the most productive programming environment for the blind.

 23:23:13 <waywardgeek> We've also got the Gnome team, but they have little influence over the GTK+ team and aren't able to help KDE, for example.

 23:23:20 <phillw> Is why we must focus on what is currently possible.

 23:23:27 <JackyAlcine> Don't mind me asking, waywardgeek, is it a licensing disambiguation with emacspeak?

 23:23:29 <waywardgeek> I believe it is all posible.

 23:24:17 <ChrisDruif> But possibly not at this moment waywardgeek

 23:24:21 <waywardgeek> T.V. Raman uses commercial TTS, and for good reason: it makes him more productive.  Since emacspeak encourages users to use commercial TTS, it can't be supported by FSF.

 23:25:23 <waywardgeek> ChrisDruif: Not only is it all possible, though not instantly, I'm willing to tackle what I feel is the hardest code.  That's why I'm diving into SR and TTS.

 23:25:35 <UndiFineD> ok, what i read here is all good, things to think about, but I want action items for the next to months, what do you think is considered possible ?

 23:26:12 <AlanBell> is there an agenda for this meeting?

 23:26:19 <UndiFineD> bedahr, is it possible to port back the patches from your julius back into it, for example, so dabien likes you better

 23:26:22 <waywardgeek> Improving the install process for Ubuntu 11.04, making it more accessible, would be a fine goal.

 23:26:29 <UndiFineD> AlanBell, topic

 23:26:31 <JackyAlcine> >_<, that's what I forgot, AlanBell. Not really.

 23:26:34 <bedahr> UndiFineD: yes, probably

 23:26:49 <AlanBell> waywardgeek: that is out of the scope of this project

 23:26:57 <bedahr> I don't think this is the only problem tough concerning simon and licenses

 23:26:59 <AlanBell> waywardgeek: but very much in scope of the Accessibility team

 23:27:34 <bedahr> even tough it is not needed for usual use cases simon can use the HTK - which isn't free software

 23:27:37 <waywardgeek> AlanBell: Sorry for being a noob to the team... what is the scope of this project?

 23:27:39 <AlanBell> waywardgeek: however the focus for this cycle is getting unity accessibility fixed, there might be a little work on the installer if there is time

 23:27:50 <bedahr> so I don't expect the die hard debians to ever be really happy with the package to be honest

 23:28:02 <UndiFineD> the scope / mission has not been fully determined, which we should

 23:28:07 <AlanBell> waywardgeek: speech recognition and text to speech and integrating them together and with the desktop

 23:28:15 <phillw> I think getting Simon on board would be a great help, as to whether it is possible, that is different matter. I do, however think it is worth a try.

 23:28:28 <JackyAlcine> Then waywardgeek is on the right track, AlanBell.

 23:28:58 <bedahr> I mean I am of course heavily biased but I know that you could get pretty far quite fast by using simon

 23:28:58 <JackyAlcine> I think that Simon has to have a bit of more friendly API

 23:29:02 <waywardgeek> Getting Simon included would be outstanding, even with initial limitations.

 23:29:06 <UndiFineD> second to this, I would like us to take on the blueprint: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-mobile-voice-user-interface

 23:29:08 <JackyAlcine> so then it'd be easier to port from desktop environments.

 23:29:20 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: what exactly are you looking for?

 23:29:32 <UndiFineD> #link getting Simon on board would be a great help, as to whether it is possible, that is different matter. I do, however think it is worth a try.

 23:29:32 <UndiFineD> <JackyAlcine> Then waywardgeek is on the right track, AlanBell.

 23:29:32 <UndiFineD> <bedahr> I mean I am of course heavily

 23:29:47 <UndiFineD> #link https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntu-mobile-voice-user-interface

 23:30:16 <phillw> AlanBell: sorry, the rough agenda is at http://openetherpad.org/tGnASiT5le

 23:31:05 <bedahr> maybe we could do a rough breakdown and compare the status quo with the inital prototype targeted for Ubuntu 11.04?

 23:32:27 <JackyAlcine> bedahr, if you have more of a native, dare I say, set up for Simon, like simon, and then gsimon, and ksimon

 23:32:35 <phillw> bedahr: +1, I really do think that 11.1o is a realistic goal, there is so much going on and with an 8 week deadline, I really cannot see it happening in time.

 23:32:59 <waywardgeek> bedahr: How is the Debian packaging coming?  Is there a version I can put on Launchpad.net as a source package?

 23:33:19 <hajour> AlanBell, we have notify you on the etherpad earlier

 23:33:29 <bedahr> ok then lets focus on 11.10 from the start; Given we have unlimited resources, what would be the goal then?

 23:33:40 <bedahr> waywardgeek: There is a complete debian package of simon 0.3.0 on my launchpad account

 23:34:21 <waywardgeek> bedahr: sweet.  I'll contact you by e-mail for getting it to some users for testing.

 23:34:30 <JackyAlcine> I feel that since it's orientated for KDE; GTK+/GNOME developers are going to be reluctant to interact with it.

 23:34:37 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: We do provide a server / client infrastructure that does the "real work". The server links to KDE for the moment but just because I didn't have time to strip it everywhere; Porting it to Qt alone should be trivial

 23:35:08 <phillw> bedahr: something that companies with millions of dollars cannot acheve, we have to stay within the realms of what is possible.

 23:35:13 <AlanBell> I don't think the KDE dependency is a deal breaker

 23:35:19 <JackyAlcine> In that case, I guess so then bedahr.

 23:35:23 <bedahr> so you could write gsimon which is just another simon client; but I wouldn't really focus on it at the beginning to be honest...

 23:35:45 <waywardgeek> bedahr: I agree

 23:36:00 <AlanBell> current version works, just isn't in the repos

 23:36:12 <UndiFineD> and that is an issue

 23:36:13 <bedahr> phillw: true, but I'd suggest we go a bit crazy to get an overview of the "vision". Then we can start to be realistic and get a clear cut mission of what is actually possible. But thats just a suggestion, obviously

 23:36:14 <AlanBell> we can use it to develop scenarios

 23:36:40 <phillw> as I and a couple are from Lubuntu, lxde would be nice :D

 23:37:04 <AlanBell> the scenarios could then run on the current simon, a minimal gtk simon front end to simond or a full gnome simon client

 23:37:21 <AlanBell> but we don't need to wait before developing scenarios

 23:37:29 <phillw> I can go and quietly nag, for our devs to look further into it.

 23:37:54 <UndiFineD> bedahr, yes that is what we want, and if we stick to the deadline and our initial goal is to obtain the blueprint, that would help us a lot in the future, as we would be able to have an UDS session about it

 23:38:21 <AlanBell> UndiFineD: what do you mean by "obtain the blueprint"?

 23:38:33 <UndiFineD> make use of it

 23:38:46 <phillw> AlanBell: how long to the UDS- in budhappest?

 23:39:04 <AlanBell> UndiFineD: we can just start implementing it

 23:39:21 <AlanBell> phillw: next UDS is May 8th I think

 23:39:44 <JackyAlcine> I've began making my own scenario for Simon, it's supposed to interact with Pidgin via D-Bus.

 23:39:48 <bedahr> hm one problem: Scenarios involve the simon client; The actual plugins will run on the client (to launch applications, etc.)

 23:40:07 <phillw> That's a more realistic time scale than 14th Feb.

 23:40:12 <bedahr> so the gsimon client will differ from the ksimon client scenario wise

 23:40:12 <UndiFineD> for those who haven't, please read that blueprint, as it could help us in some sponsoring

 23:40:16 <bedahr> this shouldn't happen

 23:40:42 <bedahr> we should really make the plugin interface client agnostic; But this would involve restructuring simon itself a bit

 23:41:13 <JackyAlcine> How much work/elbow grease would that take, bedahr ?

 23:41:14 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: If you use the git version there is a dbus plugin for that

 23:41:27 <phillw> it's why I suggested using python and either c / C++.

 23:41:45 <bedahr> Hard to say really as I fully rely on the KDE plugin infrastructure; There are also plugins who interact with other parts of simon which are ofcourse KDE-styled as well

 23:41:45 <UndiFineD> phillw, the feb 24th deadline is to getting new packages in ubuntu

 23:42:04 <UndiFineD> like simon

 23:42:05 <phillw> piy, as I'm not a programmer these days, I can only throw ideas in to discuss.

 23:42:08 <bedahr> phillw: that wouldn't really change anything; With python I'd have used pykde4 :)

 23:42:58 <JackyAlcine> bedahr, yes, but it's faulty.

 23:43:00 <AlanBell> personally I am not bothered about desktop interfaces and toolkits and the religious wars about which to use

 23:43:06 <RainCT> bedahr: Can you give a quick summary of what features Simon (backend, not gui) provides?

 23:43:19 <bedahr> ok getting back to the mission, I'm still not quite certain of what should be achieved in time for 10.10; Voice controlling of applications is definitely a priority I guess. What about speech output?

 23:43:37 <phillw> bedahr: I'd have to check with the lubuntu devs, but as far as I know, they have not had problems with kde stuff.

 23:43:56 <bedahr> AlanBell: Agreed; Qt / KDE4 was just the pragmatically best choice for us when we started (past experience, etc.)

 23:44:03 <UndiFineD> bedahr, that would be speech dispatcher

 23:44:10 <bedahr> RainCT: sure;

 23:44:36 <AlanBell> it would be nice to get some additional speech engines nicely integrated with speech dispatcher

 23:44:41 <AlanBell> such as openMary

 23:44:47 <bedahr> RainCT: the backend is a TCP server with simple (sqlite based) user management; Multiple users can connect to one simond client; The server manages their speech model and the actual recognition

 23:44:54 <JackyAlcine> AlanBell, I've been looking at that.

 23:44:58 <UndiFineD> yes AlanBell

 23:44:59 <bedahr> AlanBell: libsimontts provides that :P

 23:45:48 <AlanBell> bedahr: does that help other apps that use speech dispatcher like orca?

 23:45:53 <bedahr> RainCT: the client just opens a TCP Stream to the server and comunicates with a custom protocol; The client is responsible for capturing audio from the input device and segmenting it (detecting silences); He then sends the raw sound data to the server which returns a recognition result

 23:45:56 <bedahr> (basically)

 23:46:34 <bedahr> AlanBell: no, it's just our internal abstraction layer for our tts output stuff; But you theoretically use it from orca as well, of course

 23:46:56 <RainCT> OK, I see

 23:47:00 <bedahr> at the moment it wraps speech-dispatcher, OpenMARY and plain wave files

 23:47:33 <AlanBell> bedahr: yeah, I read about that, cool stuff!

 23:47:41 <bedahr> the tts stuff is mainly for our dialog system (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3_RTJsq9m4I)

 23:47:51 <RainCT> bedahr: By the way, you said it should to put your julius patches into the Debian package, right? Will see if I can take a look at it during holidays

 23:48:31 <bedahr> yes I said that this would be a possibility...

 23:48:49 <bedahr> you'd probably have to clean them up a bit tough I guess

 23:49:04 <bedahr> we removed some stuff we don't need, etc.

 23:49:42 <bedahr> Also we use cmake as build system now to keep in line with the rest of simon; You'd have to adapt Julius build system to build dynamic libraries as well (atm it only builds static ones)

 23:50:25 <RainCT> Yeah, that's something I want to do anyway before I get it into Debian.

 23:50:38 <bedahr> great

 23:51:28 * RainCT is off to bed - cya

 23:51:34 <UndiFineD> ok so that is something you could action ?

 23:51:38 <bedahr> RainCT: bye

 23:51:49 <hajour> sleep wel RainCT

 23:51:52 <phillw> thanks RainCT

 23:52:05 * JackyAlcine salutes RainCT

 23:52:06 <ChrisDruif> Thanks and good night RainCT :)

 23:52:15 <UndiFineD> thank you RainCT

 23:52:21 <hajour> and thanks RainCT

 23:53:00 <RainCT> thanks :)

 23:53:13 <phillw> ;bye | RainCT

 23:53:15 <DragonEyes> RainCT: take care and ensure the penguin does not catch you :)

 23:55:01 <hajour> bedahr, so the endconlusion what will be done .can you tell that

 23:55:09 <UndiFineD> ok so we have some ideas

 23:55:34 <UndiFineD> I hope RainCT and bedahr can work julius stuff out

 23:55:39 <bedahr> hajour: To be honest I'm still trying to get an overview of the project

 23:55:48 <ChrisDruif> So RainCT is going to patch julius? That would help simon get into the repositories...

 23:56:05 <bedahr> yes that would probably be step one

 23:56:30 <bedahr> longer term I think we should think about finally porting simon to sphinx;

 23:56:30 <UndiFineD> #action RainCT patch julius with bedahr

 23:56:30 * meetingology RainCT patch julius with bedahr

 23:56:58 <hajour> maybe to take a 10 minutes to pause

 23:57:29 <JackyAlcine> yes, bedahr, but like CMU Sphinx needs voices

 23:57:39 <bedahr> Julius does too

 23:57:47 <bedahr> and there is a model converter HTK -> SPHINX

 23:58:05 <JackyAlcine> No, its standard voices are horrible.

 23:58:19 <JackyAlcine> but openMary's German Spike sounds pretty good.

 23:58:41 <waywardgeek> Can someone tell me where to find install instructions for openMary?

 23:58:53 <bedahr> waywardgeek: just download and run the .jar file

 23:59:05 <bedahr> the java installer is very easy and even downloads voices on the fly

 23:59:16 <hajour> attention :maybe it's good to have a short pause of 10 minutes

 23:59:28 <JackyAlcine> lol, bedahr took me 20 mins to figure that out.

 23:59:31 <UndiFineD> I think people would like to have both possibilities

 23:59:32 <JackyAlcine> and okay, hajour.

 23:59:40 <waywardgeek> bedahr: Just tried that... "java openmary-standalone-install-4.1.1.jar crashes"

 00:00:03 <bedahr> waywardgeek: hm... worked for me

 00:00:20 <waywardgeek> Getting further now... chmod +x on the jar file seems to help

 00:00:25 <bedahr> :)

 00:00:34 <bedahr> ok I think we have a break now?

 00:00:50 <UndiFineD> and also speech is not the only thing we are thinking of...

 00:01:17 <bedahr> break over? ^^

 00:01:24 <bedahr> UndiFineD: What do you mean?

 00:01:49 <JackyAlcine> recognition is what you're addressing UndiFineD .

 00:01:49 <UndiFineD> making use of speechdispatcher braille is also a wish

 00:02:03 <bedahr> oh ok

 00:02:26 <hajour> ok now break to let it in al the information

 00:02:36 <waywardgeek> Is no one working on openMary support in SD?

 00:03:11 <hajour> thhen all can think it over

 00:04:03 <hajour> 10 minutes

 00:04:23 * AlanBell goes to bed, night all o/

 00:04:30 <hajour> and maybe get a drink ore something

 00:04:32 <UndiFineD> good night AlanBell

 00:04:39 <hajour> good night AlanBell

 00:04:44 <bedahr> AlanBell: good night

 00:04:49 <waywardgeek> lage

 00:04:52 <waywardgeek> later

 00:08:30 <phillw> UndiFineD: Luke had it running in 9.10, http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-accessibility@lists.ubuntu.com/msg03740.html He'd be the one to ask.

 00:08:45 <phillw> thanks for your time AlanBell

 00:08:55 <UndiFineD> Ok so now we an idea what is going on, and have wishes

 00:08:55 <UndiFineD> what should fit our mission ?

 00:08:55 <UndiFineD> can we get programs like simon and sonic into debian / ubuntu by the 24th ?

 00:08:55 <UndiFineD> are there any remaining licencing issues?

 00:08:55 <UndiFineD> next meeting:

 00:09:11 <ChrisDruif> So....to get this right: not only do we want to make speech/voice control available in linux.....but we want to also convert text to braille?

 00:09:21 <JackyAlcine> I'm looking into openMary, waywardgeek.

 00:09:44 <JackyAlcine> And I sent an e-mail asking if I could re implement the code in C++.

 00:09:50 <hajour> ChrisDruif, its a wish.that means if it is possible

 00:10:01 <JackyAlcine> And possibly ChrisDruif, it's one of those +5 things.

 00:10:09 <UndiFineD> ChrisDruif, see the pre-meeting notes on what do we want to accomplish?

 00:10:28 <phillw> ChrisDruif: there has already been been work done on that, it is a target. But we need to priotise.

 00:10:30 <ChrisDruif> Well...it should be a small step from tts to ttb...

 00:10:51 <bedahr> Are we building a single application or are we trying to bring voice features to the default desktop?

 00:11:08 <UndiFineD> ChrisDruif, the speech dispatcher already offers it

 00:11:32 <UndiFineD> there are multiple disabilities and many combinations

 00:11:38 <JackyAlcine> bedahr, to be honest; I'm not sure anymore.

 00:11:49 <UndiFineD> What do we want to accomplish?

 00:11:49 <UndiFineD> Command

 00:11:49 <UndiFineD> Execute

 00:11:49 <UndiFineD> Return results

 00:11:49 <UndiFineD> Optional: Manage reptitive tasks (e-mail, scheduling, etc.) for enduser.

 00:12:10 <bedahr> well what exactly does "Return results" mean?

 00:12:14 <bedahr> return from where?

 00:12:29 <UndiFineD> bedahr, yes a single application for this all would be best, as it solves all issues people have

 00:12:45 <UndiFineD> except for note taking

 00:13:29 <UndiFineD> bedahr, startrek like: computer home many people are in this room ? there are 22 people in this room ?

 00:13:51 <phillw> ChrisDruif: it is all about scavenging about live, and resurrecting / re-invigourating teams that have given up. As ibuclaw said earlier, the road is littered with failed projects. We have to keep realistic short term goals, whilst aiming towards what is currently not fully possible.

 00:14:22 <ChrisDruif> bedahr: it means that StarTrek communication; when you say for instance "Open email"...the computer responds "Opening email" or "You have 192 unread emails"

 00:14:44 <UndiFineD> 192 ... that must be me

 00:14:59 <bedahr> ChrisDruif: That I know; I was asking about the "Return results" point in the list; Or is this the star trek thing?

 00:15:12 <UndiFineD> therefore we came to artificial intelligence

 00:15:24 <UndiFineD> as that gives interaction

 00:15:34 <ChrisDruif> UndiFineD: same minds come together ;)

 00:15:50 <UndiFineD> yup, we made sure of that

 00:16:25 <JackyAlcine> bedahr, "Return results" in the sense that desktop events and manipulations can be done with the desktop.

 00:16:34 <bedahr> ah ok

 00:16:51 <bedahr> so we will probably want to integrate with at-spi and the like

 00:16:55 <JackyAlcine> That room counting feature can be done via some OpenGL..

 00:17:01 <JackyAlcine> Yup. :D

 00:17:06 <UndiFineD> :)

 00:18:13 <UndiFineD> waywardgeek, also made something, without even listening, really cool, speed adjustment for the output voices, thruh sonic

 00:18:24 <bedahr> ok so summing up we'd have an application listening to voice input that is capable of launching executables (configurable), manages active windows / applications (at-spi) and provides simple dialogs (basic "ai")

 00:18:52 <bedahr> right?

 00:18:59 <UndiFineD> exactly

 00:19:26 <bedahr> oh and there will be a tts component as well - probably as separate entity (?) as we will probably just launch / depend on orca (?)

 00:19:33 <bedahr> (or Jovie on KDE obviously)

 00:20:12 <ChrisDruif> Might be a good idea...

 00:20:14 <UndiFineD> bedahr, I would depend on speechdispatcher as orca is too

 00:20:44 <UndiFineD> and that gives direct control over outputs

 00:21:22 <UndiFineD> waywardgeek, would you like to say something about sonic ?

 00:21:22 <bedahr> yes but do we need direct control?

 00:21:24 <JackyAlcine> bedahr, yes.

 00:21:44 <JackyAlcine> And if possible, it can narrate virtually any and every application on the desktop.

 00:21:50 <ChrisDruif> I know simon isn't appropriate for dictation....maybe a separate application is better at it and we should just execute it with simon

 00:21:52 <bedahr> what do we really need from the tts system that e.g. orca couldn't provide?

 00:22:24 <waywardgeek> Hi, guys... I'm back.  Just had to feed the kids

 00:22:27 * hajour gives the voice on waywardgeek  fot to tell about his program

 00:22:44 <hajour> wb waywardgeek

 00:22:50 <phillw> bedahr: there are people who hate orca voices with a passion :\

 00:22:50 <bedahr> ChrisDruif: It that separate dictation could do dictation, so could probably simon... The problem lies with free speech models not with the software (mostly)

 00:22:59 <JackyAlcine> waywardgeek, you made sonic?

 00:23:29 <waywardgeek> Yep.  It's a simple app to speed up speech.

 00:23:45 <bedahr> phillw: but orca just uses speech-dispatcher which supports a wide variety of backends, right? Even if we implemented our own tts system atop of speech-dispatcher we would share the same voices...

 00:23:50 <waywardgeek> It works pretty well when integrated into the TTS engine.  I'm just looking at Mary now.

 00:24:23 <JackyAlcine> yeah bedahr

 00:24:48 <JackyAlcine> that's why we could aim for attaching ourselves to SpeechDispatcher.

 00:24:49 <waywardgeek> While speech-dispatcher does, IMO, leave a lot to be desired in terms of ease of developing TTS interfaces, it works.

 00:25:08 <phillw> bedahr: RainCT: did some good work with espeak... http://forum.phillw.net/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=33 I do think it is worth having a look at.

 00:25:18 * hajour people can we let talk waywardgeek

 00:25:35 <waywardgeek> * waywardgeek may not have much to say :-)

 00:25:46 <JackyAlcine> I'm curious, how does sonic work?

 00:25:55 * JackyAlcine looks for source code and binaries to download.

 00:25:58 <UndiFineD> well 6x speed up aint nothing ...

 00:26:06 <hajour> maybe you can answer questions

 00:26:18 <UndiFineD> does it slow down too waywardgeek ?

 00:26:22 <waywardgeek> There's no magic.  All that's different is I had speed listeners involved, so the algorithms work well at far beyond 2X speed up.

 00:26:30 <waywardgeek> It slows down and also changes pitch.

 00:27:16 <waywardgeek> It's only purpose is to enable commercial and FOSS TTS engines, as well as audio book apps, support speeds required by blind speed listeners.

 00:27:33 <JackyAlcine> hmmm.

 00:27:34 <JackyAlcine> Okay.

 00:27:39 <waywardgeek> So, I'll check out openMarry. If it sucks at high speed like most of the others, I can fix that

 00:28:07 <UndiFineD> wonderful

 00:28:34 <ChrisDruif> Alright everyone...I'm off....tired as hell and tomorrow I'm working on my own project again together with my buddy :)

 00:28:36 <bedahr> Well the problem with openMary imho is - while the quality (at least for German voices) is excellent - it is really, really slow and being Java has some hefty dependencies as well

 00:28:48 <UndiFineD> #action waywardgeek looks at speeds speech with openMary

 00:28:48 * meetingology waywardgeek looks at speeds speech with openMary

 00:28:52 <phillw> by the way UndiFineD have you endedmeeting yet? :P

 00:28:55 <bedahr> ChrisDruif: ok good night

 00:29:03 <UndiFineD> nope

 00:29:11 <ChrisDruif> Thanks bedahr :)

 00:29:13 <JackyAlcine> night, ChrisDruif ; keep me posted!

 00:29:13 <JackyAlcine> :D

 00:29:18 <JackyAlcine> and use the webkit!

 00:29:22 <hajour> goodnight ChrisDruif

 00:29:23 <JackyAlcine> ill explain later.

 00:29:24 <UndiFineD> :)

 00:29:34 <ChrisDruif> Alright, will do :)

 00:29:35 <UndiFineD> good night ChrisDruif

 00:29:39 <phillw> ;bye | ChrisDruif

 00:29:40 <ChrisDruif> Webkit for what?

 00:29:40 <DragonEyes> ChrisDruif: take care and ensure the penguin does not catch you :)

 00:29:52 <JackyAlcine> webkit for HTML rendering.

 00:29:59 <JackyAlcine> instead of the generic isht Pidgin uses.

 00:30:02 <JackyAlcine> more cleaner. :D

 00:30:04 <JackyAlcine> but yeah.

 00:30:15 <JackyAlcine> I'll explain tomorroww :D

 00:30:19 <UndiFineD> ok next: what should fit our mission ?

 00:30:21 <ChrisDruif> Aha....I'll talk about it with my buddy :)

 00:30:32 <JackyAlcine> Probably next Tuesday.

 00:30:38 <JackyAlcine> I was thinking Friday.

 00:30:45 <JackyAlcine> but that seems busy..

 00:30:50 <JackyAlcine> isn't it Christmas then?

 00:30:50 <hajour> hajour ^^

 00:31:18 <waywardgeek> Ha!  I thought those HMM voices sounded MBROLA-ish.

 00:31:37 * JackyAlcine is confused by waywardgeek's discovery.

 00:31:49 <hajour> note UndiFineD> ok next: what should fit our mission ?

 00:31:52 <bedahr> waywardgeek: what? really? I don't know about the english ones but the German ones are awesome

 00:32:14 <waywardgeek> Some MBROLA voices are quite good

 00:32:34 <waywardgeek> But you can hear the distortion from the MBE/LPC encoding

 00:32:48 <bedahr> I tried those too (again, German) and they don't hold a candle to bits3-hmm

 00:33:05 <bedahr> actually, come to think of it I do know the English hmm voices and think they are quite good as well

 00:33:12 <UndiFineD> can our mission be to extend simon to become a full accessibilty application ?

 00:33:21 <bedahr> hey I'd like that :)

 00:33:33 <UndiFineD> it seems logical

 00:34:00 <bedahr> yeah it certainly provides a lot of what you are looking for

 00:34:15 <bedahr> also, it should be quite easily changable

 00:34:19 <UndiFineD> but is that compatible with lubuntu phillw  ?

 00:34:28 <phillw> UndiFineD: they would (simon) have to clarify the licence, and then it would be up to a MOTU to propose it.

 00:34:46 <JackyAlcine> who had a problem installing openMary?

 00:34:56 <JackyAlcine> Remember to chmod 755 it!

 00:34:58 <bedahr> phillw: what problems do you see with the license?

 00:35:13 <bedahr> or in other words: What should we do to "clarify" it?

 00:35:27 <phillw> UndiFineD: as long as is not gnome, it is not impossible.

 00:36:14 <UndiFineD> ok phillw

 00:37:05 <UndiFineD> http://www.cyber-byte.at/wiki/index.php/Licensing

 00:37:10 <UndiFineD> #link http://www.cyber-byte.at/wiki/index.php/Licensing

 00:37:38 <phillw> bedahr: http://www.voxforge.org/home/about/comments/simon-and-htk-licensing

 00:38:37 <bedahr> phillw: yes, if you read the full article at lwn.net (http://lwn.net/Articles/348267/) you can find quite a good discussion about simon and surrounding licenses

 00:38:39 <phillw> I recall it bringing been brought to my attention before, I believe Debian blocked it's adoption because of the ambiguities.

 00:38:51 <bedahr> this lead to the wiki article linked above

 00:38:52 <UndiFineD> that would mean each user, that needs HTK, would have to read the htk license agree to it and downlad it separate from within the application

 00:39:14 <JackyAlcine> Why is that a problem?

 00:39:16 <bedahr> yes using the HTK on the clients is definitely not an option

 00:39:34 <UndiFineD> unless done aas I just described bedahr

 00:39:52 <JackyAlcine> Wait, download ?? separately from the application?

 00:39:58 <phillw> I'm not even sure if they would agree to it in resrticted extras.

 00:40:01 <JackyAlcine> I want to understand this aspect..

 00:40:05 <UndiFineD> yup, that is in the htk license

 00:40:23 <bedahr> guys, don't forget that we really shouldn't need the HTK for what we are planning here

 00:40:33 <UndiFineD> yes, that would be best

 00:41:00 <waywardgeek> I think bedahr has already well covered the licence issues.  I was possibly the first person to get freaked out by it.  The answer to me is that short term you only ship HHM models, and long term we build a more complete solution.

 00:41:02 <phillw> if simon does not need htk, it is possible to get it through in time.

 00:41:43 <UndiFineD> phillw, why is that ?

 00:41:57 <bedahr> before we try to force people to install the HTK I say we port the simon training to SPHINX. I haven't had the time to start with it yet but if this project takes of this should certainly be doable...

 00:42:24 <waywardgeek> right

 00:42:38 <UndiFineD> sphinx is nice too, seen the vedics application screencasts ?

 00:42:41 <JackyAlcine> **HMM models.

 00:43:01 <phillw> UndiFineD: GPL Vs Restrictive licences with non GPL licences, FOS does like them.

 00:43:03 <UndiFineD> but sphinx 4 also has license issues i think ...

 00:43:19 <phillw> UndiFineD: are they all GPL?

 00:43:21 <waywardgeek> Here's my take on Simon.  It's the only speech control application in Linux that is even close to usable.  We need something usable ASAP.

 00:43:39 <waywardgeek> We can refine over time, but we need to have something out there.

 00:44:01 <phillw> waywardgeek: then we need to get hold of Luke and see if he can provide a fully GPL version.

 00:44:19 <bedahr> phillw: SPHINX is BSD as far as I know

 00:44:34 <JackyAlcine> it is =/

 00:44:38 <waywardgeek> Actually, I think bedahr is the expert there...

 00:44:46 <bedahr> huh?

 00:45:13 <UndiFineD> phillw, sphinx makes use of the bsd license

 00:45:19 <waywardgeek> bedahr, have you had time to factor out the HTK dependencies, so we can have a Debian/Ubuntu friendly package we can ship

 00:45:36 <waywardgeek> With the obvious limitations that implies.

 00:45:48 <bedahr> waywardgeek: they were never factored "in". You simply select a static base model during initial setup and off you go

 00:46:00 <bedahr> the HTK was never a build time dependency

 00:46:00 <waywardgeek> right, then.

 00:47:04 <waywardgeek> I've been off doing other stuff (like sonic), but I'll download Simon from launchpad tomorrow.

 00:47:23 <UndiFineD> :)

 00:47:36 <JackyAlcine> bedahr, do you have a CVS checkout or Bazaar for Simon?

 00:47:42 <JackyAlcine> I want to look at it a bit more.

 00:47:55 <bedahr> Git, yes

 00:48:00 <bedahr> sf.net/projects/speech2text

 00:48:00 <UndiFineD> so is sphinx a problem ?

 00:48:18 <bedahr> simon doesn't use sphinx atm

 00:48:36 <JackyAlcine> Sphinx's recognition is pretty bad.

 00:48:46 <JackyAlcine> AlanBell and I had fun testing it out.

 00:48:59 <UndiFineD> ok ...

 00:48:59 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: I don't know...

 00:49:10 <UndiFineD> screencasts were impresive though

 00:49:22 <JackyAlcine> did you hear the voices, though?

 00:49:23 <bedahr> SPHINX should be about on par with HTK/Julius

 00:49:37 <JackyAlcine> I had a few friends (American and Carribean accents) try.

 00:49:45 <JackyAlcine> and my mom's rough french/creole accent.

 00:49:53 <UndiFineD> ok :)

 00:49:58 <JackyAlcine> and only my friend from holland had some good results.

 00:49:58 <hajour> hehe

 00:49:59 <UndiFineD> how did that go

 00:49:59 <waywardgeek> I tried it, too.  I didn't have much luck with SPHINX.

 00:50:19 <JackyAlcine> it picks up Queensland English better.

 00:50:32 <JackyAlcine> Unless we build models; I'm not expecting much.

 00:50:44 <UndiFineD> ok, so sphinx is not of your liking ..

 00:50:54 <waywardgeek> I like th SPHINX license.

 00:51:02 <bedahr> waywardgeek: me too

 00:51:03 <phillw> Realistically, we have about 4 weeks to have a GPL version confirmed, else it will not be available for 11.04. As I think 11.10 is a more realistic target, we do not need to break our necks trying to rush something in.

 00:51:24 <UndiFineD> true phillw

 00:51:27 <JackyAlcine> True phillw

 00:51:35 <bedahr> phillw: Agreed; I say we try to fix the Julius fork and see what they say

 00:51:45 <JackyAlcine> But it wouldn't hurt to have an alpha.

 00:51:49 <JackyAlcine> Julius-NG?

 00:51:53 <waywardgeek> However, we can likely get it into Vinux 3.2, based on Ubuntu 11.04

 00:52:05 <waywardgeek> And get users to start playing with it

 00:52:20 <waywardgeek> That should help get it ready for Ubuntu 11.10

 00:52:30 <bedahr> waywardgeek: sounds good

 00:53:05 <JackyAlcine> Vinux?

 00:53:07 <waywardgeek> That's the primary goal of Vinux... you wont have to jump through hoops.  Guys there are anxious for anything you can give them, and they love testing.

 00:53:10 <phillw> you devs should have access to their ppa's - then you can sit down and discuss which is nearest. I think Simon is at present, but it depends on how much work the others will need.

 00:53:10 <JackyAlcine> ;gdefine Vinux

 00:53:12 <DragonEyes> Error.  The syntax for that command is: gdefine <phrase>

 00:53:23 <waywardgeek> Vinux = Linux for the visually impaird, build on Ubuntu.

 00:53:33 <JackyAlcine> Oh. okay.

 00:53:37 <waywardgeek> Luke works pretty closely with us on various bits of code.

 00:53:59 <phillw> ;add Vinux is Linux for the visually impaird, build on Ubuntu.

 00:54:00 <DragonEyes> Factoid Vinux was successfully added

 00:54:07 <waywardgeek> With Luke's prodding, we've been trying to expand to covering other disabilities.

 00:54:26 <UndiFineD> ok next:

 00:54:27 <phillw> ;add vinux is Linux for the visually impaird, build on Ubuntu.

 00:54:29 <DragonEyes> Factoid vinux was successfully added

 00:55:16 <waywardgeek> The main thing with Vinux is we can use it as a testing ground for unstable accessibility code.

 00:55:35 <JackyAlcine> Is there a place for me to download such a system?

 00:55:45 <waywardgeek> vinux.org.uk

 00:55:48 <JackyAlcine> I really love virtualization, fyi.

 00:55:52 <waywardgeek> :-)

 00:56:07 <hajour> i nominate JackyAlcine for Development Coordinator

 00:56:22 <waywardgeek> :-D

 00:56:25 <JackyAlcine> we started voting for positions already?

 00:56:44 <hajour> <UndiFineD> ok next:

 00:56:51 <hajour> yes

 00:57:17 <hajour> phillw,

 00:57:32 <hajour> voting

 00:58:12 <UndiFineD> #vote  JackyAlcine for Development Coordinator

 00:58:12 <meetingology> Please vote on: JackyAlcine for Development Coordinator

 00:58:12 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 00:58:12 <phillw> waywardgeek: that would be excellent, I'd prefer everyone to be under the #ubuntu-accessibility banner, as I'm hopeful to get it set up as a Focus Group, which would this sort of project on a more formal footing and allow the informal team interactions officially recognised.

 00:58:18 <phillw> +1

 00:58:18 <meetingology> +1 received from phillw

 00:58:19 <UndiFineD> +1

 00:58:19 <meetingology> +1 received from UndiFineD

 00:58:22 <hajour> +1

 00:58:22 <meetingology> +1 received from hajour

 00:58:38 <bedahr> +1

 00:58:38 <meetingology> +1 received from bedahr

 00:58:42 <hajour> vote s plz

 00:58:43 <waywardgeek> _1

 00:58:46 <waywardgeek> +1

 00:58:46 <meetingology> +1 received from waywardgeek

 00:58:52 <waywardgeek> correct

 00:59:00 <UndiFineD> anyone else ?

 00:59:01 <JackyAlcine> If only I could vote for myself.

 00:59:04 <JackyAlcine> lol.

 00:59:21 <JackyAlcine> there's Pendulum , jdeslaur , ibuclaw , Cheri703 and ...

 00:59:26 <JackyAlcine> me.

 00:59:39 <Cheri703> +1

 00:59:39 <meetingology> +1 received from Cheri703

 00:59:42 <UndiFineD> #voters

 00:59:42 <meetingology> Current voters:

 00:59:57 <UndiFineD> huh ?

 01:00:02 <UndiFineD> #agrees

 01:00:03 <UndiFineD> #agreed

 01:00:14 <phillw> try #endvote

 01:00:16 <UndiFineD> #agreed  JackyAlcine for Development Coordinator

 01:00:21 <UndiFineD> #endvote

 01:00:21 <meetingology> Voting ended on: JackyAlcine for Development Coordinator

 01:00:21 <meetingology> Votes for:6 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 01:00:21 <meetingology> Motion carried

 01:00:40 <JackyAlcine> Thank you, guys. :D

 01:00:57 <waywardgeek> So, Ubuntu-accessibility is a good banner.  I think better than GNU/FSF or Gnome.

 01:00:58 <hajour> ok thats set ackyAlcine is  Development Coordinator

 01:01:16 <phillw> next up.... poor harrassed soul for documentation.... which would be me.

 01:01:31 <UndiFineD> ok what would be a good date / time for next meeting ?

 01:01:31 <waywardgeek> Congrats, JackyAlcine!

 01:01:41 <hajour> lol phillw

 01:01:48 <UndiFineD> phillw, that is not a question :)

 01:01:51 <hajour> congrats JackyAlcine

 01:01:59 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: congratulations!

 01:02:12 <JackyAlcine> I'm for the 28th

 01:02:22 <UndiFineD> congrats JackyAlcine :)

 01:02:49 <phillw> 28th is okay with me.

 01:02:54 <UndiFineD> ok we will set up a doodle up and around the 28th

 01:02:55 <waywardgeek> Works here

 01:03:04 <bedahr> will probably work for me too

 01:03:09 <UndiFineD> # nextmeeting ?

 01:03:24 <phillw> UndiFineD: all one word :)

 01:03:40 <UndiFineD> #nextmeeting +- 28th of december

 01:03:52 <UndiFineD> hey pedro3005

 01:03:57 <UndiFineD> you missed it all

 01:04:04 <pedro3005> hey

 01:04:10 <pedro3005> yeah, but

 01:04:11 <hajour> hee pedro3005

 01:04:12 <pedro3005> I ate pizza

 01:04:57 <UndiFineD> thank you all for coming .. we will have to leave it here, enjoy christmas and play time

 01:04:58 <phillw> pedro3005: your punishment is reading two hours of logs... it was a long meeting :)

 01:05:03 <hajour> happy Christmas

 01:05:12 <hajour> lol

 01:05:12 <pedro3005> hey hajour

 01:05:20 <waywardgeek> merry xmas/holiday

 01:05:20 <UndiFineD> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
