{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== full log ===
<pre>
<UndiFineD> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Meetings
<UndiFineD> it is the proposed 22:00 UTC
* UndiFineD goes poking around
<UndiFineD> AndrewMC , CensoredBiscuit , Daniel0108 , hajour , ibuclaw , JanC , jdeslaur_ , MichealH , pedro3005 , RainCT , zkriesse 
<pedro3005> hello
<Daniel0108> hi
<UndiFineD> welcome :)
<hajour> now hoping more will come then last time by the meeting
<hajour> hi all who have come
* RainCT is off to bed, sorry (don't have anything new to report anyway.. i'll still be sticking around and try to get the debian/julius stuff done soon but feel free to not count me as not active)
<UndiFineD> on todays agenda: inactivity, Infrastructure, Google summer of code, Blueprints
<UndiFineD> thanks RainCT
<zkriesse> To all: I just finished cleaning my garage today so I'm going to take a shower and then rest
<RainCT> (*err count me as not active, without the double negation :P)
<zkriesse> As for AndrewMC he's out at camp
<UndiFineD> ok
<hajour> RainCT,  just resign in speechcontrol to let see you still want to work on speechcontrol
<hajour> count for whole the team btw
<Daniel0108> let's start the meeting? :)
<UndiFineD> yes
<Daniel0108> okay
</pre>
==== inactivity ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic inactivity
<hajour> chair is for UndiFineD
<RainCT> hajour: problem with leaving the team is I can't read the mailing list then
<UndiFineD> as we just touched
<hajour> RainCT,  see pm :)
<UndiFineD> we will make an announcement and ask those interested to re-join
* Daniel0108 is tired, lol, I slept from 4 AM to 9 AM :P
<UndiFineD> this to make sure that we are not just stuck with news gatherers
<UndiFineD> This project is not going to die or fade away, it might take us a little longer to reach our goals, but that does not stop us.
<UndiFineD> any questions ? / remarks ?
<Daniel0108> I just want to point out that Jacky and me are currently working hard on the sii :) and that's the reason why we don't have much time for speechcontrol
<UndiFineD> well I have looked at LP and have seen some activity :)
<UndiFineD> jacky and <omar-elmohandes> have been thinking of the part between Speech-Dispatcher and libopenmary
<UndiFineD> anyone else ?
<Daniel0108> we want to work on the chrome plugin Browserspeak after the release of the sii :)
<UndiFineD> great
<UndiFineD> ok, so re-assessment email is going to be very clear on the why and how
<UndiFineD> #topic Infrastructure
<UndiFineD> We have been asked to move upstream, for this we need some own infrastructure
<Daniel0108> I really have to go to bed... I'm fallin' asleep...
<UndiFineD> unfortunatly, after I had most of that setup I have been hacked and have to redo the whole thing
<hajour> i am saying things to UndiFineD  so he can type thats is faster and he write more understandable english then me
<Daniel0108> sorry ;) I'll leave now
<Daniel0108> bye
<UndiFineD> thanks Daniel0108 
<hajour> Daniel0108,  just read back meetinglogs plz
<Daniel0108> okay, of course
<hajour> fot to be up to date
<hajour> good night Daniel0108 :)
<Daniel0108> good night, hajour, UndiFineD :)
<hajour> next time plzz all fill in the doodle for put a time in you really can come
<UndiFineD> so .. with a bit more delay that will be re-done somewhere along the next meeting
</pre>
==== Google summer of code ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Google summer of code
<UndiFineD> For the 6th year in a row Google is having its summer of code event. We have already been approached by interested students, we should sign-up. Create a few small tasks to be done.
<hajour> i would suggest everyone give info he have on others from the team to get all again complete
<hajour> sorry cant type so fast
<UndiFineD> their students bring in the capability to boost any project
<hajour> thats good news
<UndiFineD> so if you feel like doing some work, focus on the blueprints
<UndiFineD> specifying what needs to be done and how
<hajour> suggestions are welcome
<hajour> don't be afraid to let hear your voice
<hajour> we get a little bit the feeling to be with only our 2 on the meeting this way honest say
<hajour> is MichealH  not around?
<hajour> who is still paying attention  here on the speechcontrol meeting?
</pre>
==== Blueprints - openMary ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Blueprints - openMary
<UndiFineD> Work's coming to a close with openMary. The library (libopenmary) is near completion by integrating GStreamer and fleshing out the rest of the MARY TTS API.
<UndiFineD> Possible work is:
<UndiFineD> Rewrite Java application to C/C++
<UndiFineD> Add audio output into the Java application
<UndiFineD> Integrate D-Bus support and a command line interface for the Java application
<UndiFineD> Possible packaging of MARY into the SpeechControl PPA
<hajour> RainCT,  and Jacky can packaging i not know who more can do that from the team
<hajour> pedro3005,  you still around?
<UndiFineD> to add a task of course is: the speech-dispatcher libopenmary bit
</pre>
==== Blueprints - uVRT ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Blueprints - uVRT
<UndiFineD> Work's being done to finalize the ability to render sessions (read/write support of sessions is iffy)
<UndiFineD> Audio control and cross audio server support is done using GStreamer
<UndiFineD> once audio output is properly there, I think we have a great goal achieved, making it easy to contribute speech better and free voice models
<UndiFineD> their models are as important as the fonts to read your screen
</pre>
==== Blueprints - Inferno ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Blueprints - Inferno
<UndiFineD> I have recieved no progress update here
<UndiFineD> so I think it is still at the same base as 2 weeks ago
<UndiFineD> having IRC talk to people with low / no vision would be a great addition
<pedro3005> hajour, sorry
<hajour> it would be nice we get any feedback in a meeting you see
<hajour> btw i see MichealH  not on away but he not say anything here
</pre>
==== Blueprints - Browser plugin ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Blueprints - Browser plugin
<hajour> pedro3005,  you now the progress frominferno?
<UndiFineD> Relies heavily on MARY to be running, otherwise uses the MARY TTS API to save audio to disk and output synthesized text.
<UndiFineD> Work needs to be done to emulate libopenmary into jsOpenMary, to avoid having to use NPAPI.
<pedro3005> hajour, no, I have not heard from it
<hajour> daniel sleeps but you also help by inferno pedro3005
<hajour> mm
<UndiFineD> work is planned to be done, so I am very exited to hear about that soon
<hajour> daniel if you read back.you work on sii but you are leader from inferno also MichealH  is head dev you to are resonsible to give tasks to inferno team members devs
</pre>
==== Blueprints ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Blueprints
<hajour> responsible i meant
<UndiFineD> Work I am missing is on Simon to command execution
<UndiFineD> we have not seen Bedahr in quite a while
<UndiFineD> so no idea how that is going now
<UndiFineD> wether he passed his exams or anything 
<hajour> i heard no one have get a warning mail that the resign from devel was meant to see who still want to work on speechcontrol
<hajour> from different people
<hajour> so i will put out a mail by speechcontrol team launchpad to inform them again
<UndiFineD> and another project I am missing is smart comprehend-able output
<UndiFineD> that reduces massive amount of command output to what the user needs
<hajour> if bedhar also not had that mail he not know why he is signed out from speechcontrol devs
<hajour> and i think that count for several devs
</pre>
==== Any other business ====
<pre>
<UndiFineD> #topic Any other business ?
<hajour> well i think not we will get response on that UndiFineD  several devs are not on the meeting also not our own head dev. and the owns who are here well i don't know what to think about that honest say
<UndiFineD> ok thanks for showing up people that signed the doodle
<UndiFineD> #endmeeting
</pre>
