{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


As we are moving into becoming an upstream project, we have been asked to join the SII.
They have made an initial draft:
* <nowiki>[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7607669/a/TheSIIdraft1.pdf]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7607669/a/TheSIIdraft2.pdf]]</nowiki>

== Policy  on joining the SII ==

=== SpeechControl desires for Code of Conduct ===

=== SpeechControl desires for Team Definition ===

=== SpeechControl desires for Project Definition ===

=== Comments ===

==== comments from phill ====
Basically, what has changed from the final draft to what is proposed is a council of three, instead of a 'director'. There will be myself, Jacky and Dante. Dante can interview and approve future members to the council, but please do take the time to read that NONE of your ownership rights of your own projects can be removed, and any person who wishes to claim their project is more important than the others will be swiftlty dealt with. As several teams share Dante, Jacky and myself - that is the final proposal.
 
Jacky and Dante have done an astounding job in such a short time, and I wish to put on record my gratitude to both of them. We were looking at doing at doing this over several months, not several days!
 
For those being feel we are being 'abandonded' by ubuntu as we move upstream, can I once again assure you that whilst it was done far more quickly than I would have liked, we have a new umbrella, commited to gpl v3. We will continue to work closely with ubuntu accessibilty and all of the ubuntu family, but we can now go out and kidnap more people ;) Practice your ninja kidnapping skills, all teams are still their own teams - we can now openly share people accross them. One small step for accesibility one massive step for AI. After decades and hundreds, if not thousands of projects that have faltered - We can do this.
 
Oh, and by the way - if you ask CensoredBiscuit, you can have a new kewl email account to link to your existing ones.... <your-name>@thesii.org (Us drones have been busy!)

Jacky will get the final draft out ready to be voted upon, but having gone through it myself - it is a great document and with the final edit I asked for I commend it to all teams.

==== comments from manuèla ====

i thought there would no pushing . this is the last i say about it till it is more finished and we go talk again about it .
i don't like to be as bad to push in a corner btw.
this is not really helping to resolve the issues to become agree.

1/ coc and open source
there is not yet a coc.

 2 / limited democracy
 your project is still yours but you’re given the privileges to call upon the resources of other projects in the community, given that said projects are willing to disseminate such projects.

line above means if you give your information.
and other team decide to give not then i not she a point that will be fair .

3/ when you deactivate your account the projects under these conditions belong to the sii, which seems wrong
given free access SII’s resources (unless a said project specifically wants to limit the amount of people using their resources for a valid reason)

You can deactivate your account by going to your account preferences and clicking “Deactivate My Account”. Although it’s deactivated, the account will remain on our system for approximately 90 days, and after then, the information will become unavailable and any projects that you own that you have under SII will be still under your name but inaccessible.

that means once you are involved  by SII
and there comes a disageement .
you lose totally voice to what happens to your own program.

so in that way its a kill contract.

i have let it read a lawyer.
so i am good informed.

last thing is this there is no where to find something from the financial part in the whole doucument.

but because it is not yet finished yet what jacky told me .
i will not yet decide something.
so i not have said no or either yes on that .
