{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== SpeechControl ==
''to make impossible '''possible'''''

==== Quick Summary ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Project Leader:
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hajour | hajour ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Development Coordinator
| <nowiki>[[jackyalcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki>
|-
| This team is tied to
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Team|Accessibility]]</nowiki>
|-
| Documention
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw | phillw]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UndiFineD | UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad:
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~speechcontrolteam|Speech Control Team]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC Room:
| 
| <nowiki>[[irc:--freenode.net-##SpeechControl|##SpeechControl]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Links ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Meetings:
| <nowiki>[[SpeechControl-Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki>
|-
| Initial Project Chat:
| <nowiki>[[http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/to-make-impossible-possible/2010/to-make-impossible-possible.2010-12-10-23.24.moin.txt | notes ]]</nowiki>
|}

----

=== Project Mission ===
SpeechControl is an application that is to be designed to eventually be integrated into any Ubuntu distro (and possibly into any Linux system). It is to incorporate another means of input for the end-user who may be one of a disability or medical ailment. Thus, SpeechControl is to be a powerful accessibility component for Linux systems.

SpeechControl will be able to accomplish the following:

 - '''Speech Synthesis''': More commonly known at TTS (Text-To-Speech), the voice that communicates with the end-user will be as natural and inviting as technology permits.

 - '''Speech recognition''': Using the available tools at our disposal, SpeechControl will be able to comprehend your spoken word. 

 - '''Virtual Assistant''': 

 - '''Preconfigured Command Execution'''

==== Target Systems ====
Our goal is to get this application working under <nowiki>[[http://www.lubuntu.net|(L)ubuntu]]</nowiki> and its sister projects. But with enough work and development, the long-term goal of this project is to have it reach across as many systems as possible.
----
CategoryAccessibility CategoryAccessibility
