{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Agenda: <nowiki>[[http://openetherpad.org/speechcontrol]]</nowiki>

=== Full log ===
<pre>
[20:01] <CensoredBiscuit> #startmeeting
[20:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 14:01. The chair is CensoredBiscuit.
[20:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[20:02] <CensoredBiscuit> Well,
[20:02] <CensoredBiscuit> First thing on the agenda is to vote to delay to 11.10
[20:02] <MrChrisDruif> hajour isn't even here...
[20:02] <JackyAlcine> Wait, true.
[20:02] <CensoredBiscuit> ;invite hajour
[20:02] <UndiFineD> hold a sec for her
[20:02] <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: DragonEyes isn't here, neither.
[20:03] <UndiFineD> she is having irc trouble
[20:04] <MrChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: DragonEyes isn't here because this is an official Ubuntu channel...
[20:04] <CensoredBiscuit> Welcome hajour
[20:05] <hajour> thank you sorry for delay.
[20:05] <DanteAshton> Hello everyone...
[20:05] <CensoredBiscuit> shall we continue now
[20:05] <techgeek_squared> Hello Dan
[20:05] <MrChrisDruif> Hai DanteAshton :)
[20:05] <UndiFineD> yes please
[20:05] <hajour> hai DanteAshton
[20:05] <MrChrisDruif> Please do CensoredBiscuit :)
[20:06] <CensoredBiscuit> very well
[20:06] <CensoredBiscuit> the first thing on the agenda is the vote to delay to 11.04
[20:06] <CensoredBiscuit> before heading to the vote is there any thoughts on this?
[20:06] <bedahr> CensoredBiscuit: yes, a quick one
[20:06] <UndiFineD> well, it is a bit short time to have a release ready for 11.04
[20:07] <bedahr> this is still all about the original speech-control plans, right? or has this already been "merged" with the wintremute project?
[20:07] <CensoredBiscuit> So you don't even think 11.04 is possible UndiFineD
[20:07] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: Not as of yet.
[20:07] <bedahr> (sorry if this is a dumb question)
[20:07] <bedahr> ok
[20:07] <bedahr> JackyAlcine: thanks
[20:07] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: No, I would have asked the same, I think I blurred it a bit too much.
[20:08] <JackyAlcine> I can see libopenmary being ready by mid-cycle of 11.04.
[20:08] <CensoredBiscuit> So if we merged with Wintermute it would take longer
[20:08] <tenach> Perhaps 11.10 release?
[20:08] <CensoredBiscuit> what about delaying to 11.10?
[20:08] <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: yes, A bit more.
[20:08] <phillw> I think 11.10 is a realistic target
[20:08] <JackyAlcine> Wintermute may not be avialable *officialy* for 11.04 or even 11.10, but there will be betas and alphas.
[20:09] <CensoredBiscuit> lets open the vote to 11.10?
[20:09] <UndiFineD> yes
[20:09] <JackyAlcine> Don't ask, do so; you're the chair.
[20:09] <phillw> yes
[20:09] <pedro3005> Isn't there another python programmer in the team? Kinda sucks to do it all alone
[20:09] <CensoredBiscuit> [vote] Delay release to be 11.10 not 11.04?
[20:09] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Delay release to be 11.10 not 11.04?.
[20:09] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[20:09] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[20:09] <JackyAlcine> pedro3005: I've been scraping up a bit of Python learning online.
[20:09] <UndiFineD> +1
[20:09] <MootBot> +1 received from UndiFineD. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[20:09] <JackyAlcine> +1
[20:09] <MootBot> +1 received from JackyAlcine. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[20:09] <CensoredBiscuit> +1
[20:09] <MootBot> +1 received from CensoredBiscuit. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[20:09] <phillw> +1
[20:09] <MootBot> +1 received from phillw. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[20:09] <hajour> +1
[20:09] <pedro3005> +1
[20:09] <MootBot> +1 received from hajour. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[20:09] <MootBot> +1 received from pedro3005. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[20:10] <bedahr> +1
[20:10] <MootBot> +1 received from bedahr. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[20:10] <MrChrisDruif> +0
[20:10] <MootBot> Abstention received from MrChrisDruif. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7
[20:10] <CensoredBiscuit> the voting has :30
[20:10] <CensoredBiscuit> [endvote]
[20:10] <MootBot> Final result is 7 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 7
[20:11] <CensoredBiscuit> let the record show development release is now set for 11.10
[20:11] <JackyAlcine> Alright, making a note of that.
[20:11] <phillw> pedro3005: I'll see if I can kidnap you another python programmer, but you will know more than I do.
[20:11] <pedro3005> JackyAlcine, I commend your effort.. I should do the same about C++
[20:11] <CensoredBiscuit> next on the agenda is a vote on the mentoring program
[20:11] <phillw> *more of them*
[20:12] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Mentoring program
[20:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Mentoring program
[20:12] <CensoredBiscuit> Who has information on this topic?
[20:12] <pedro3005> JackyAlcine, Do you think it would be best if I worked on learning C++ and we left python alone?
[20:12] <JackyAlcine> Hold on until the development section, pedro3005 or perhaps a PM.
[20:12] <pedro3005> ok, sorry.
[20:13] <CensoredBiscuit> thank you JackyAlcine
[20:13] <CensoredBiscuit> now we're discuissing the mentoring program
[20:13] <MrChrisDruif> What is this Mentoring Program about? Anyone?
[20:13] <CensoredBiscuit> I have no details on this program.
[20:13] <UndiFineD> noone knows ?
[20:13] <UndiFineD> then skip topic
[20:13] <phillw> MrChrisDruif: under the UBT realignment
[20:13] <CensoredBiscuit> very well
[20:13] <pedro3005> heh
[20:13] <CensoredBiscuit> next topic,
[20:13] <pedro3005> someone make something up on the spot
[20:14] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Cleaning up the speechcontrol wiki
[20:14] <MootBot> New Topic:  Cleaning up the speechcontrol wiki
[20:14] <phillw> people can become mentors when recommended by recognised team leaders.
[20:14] <hajour> i don't no wo have put it in.i was looking but with webbrowser my notebook screen freeze
[20:14] <phillw> oh, well, forget it, then :(
[20:14] <hajour> no phillw talk
[20:14] <UndiFineD> phillw: we move it to next meeting
[20:14] <CensoredBiscuit> The speechcontrols wiki is looking rather clustered and unupdated
[20:15] <UndiFineD> oh hajour :)
[20:15] <CensoredBiscuit> We need awesome admin people to keep on top of it
[20:15] <hajour> i am reeading go on phillw
[20:15] <DanteAshton> I'm awesome...but my admin skills are a bit rubbish :P
[20:15] <hajour> CensoredBiscuit, ^
[20:16] <phillw> In the speech control team we have mentors and masters from UBT, this will allow teams to work together
[20:16] <hajour> give phillw time to speak
[20:16] <CensoredBiscuit> So Lets attempt to get it cleaned up by next months meeting
[20:16] <CensoredBiscuit> Very well,
[20:16] <phillw> one easy example is that Daniel is now working with Daniel
[20:16] <CensoredBiscuit> do we need to back up topic-wise
[20:16] <pedro3005> we need to let phillw speak :p
[20:17] <MrChrisDruif> CensoredBiscuit: Maybe change the topic back?
[20:18] <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: I'm awaiting some time with cproffit to get the header altered on the page. We did have it scheduled, but there was an 'issue' with an ex admin from here.
[20:18] <MrChrisDruif> Is this about the wiki phillw?
[20:18] <CensoredBiscuit> Understood,
[20:18] <CensoredBiscuit> phillw, lets go back to the mentoring program
[20:19] <CensoredBiscuit> since I understand there was more to that
[20:19] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Mentoring Program
[20:19] <MootBot> New Topic:  Mentoring Program
[20:19] <UndiFineD> alright, so we can mentor some people, who is up for the task ?
[20:19] <phillw> he has made the three new headers that we need, but we have not had chance to get things progressed
[20:20] <JackyAlcine> Define 'mentoring'.
[20:20] <CensoredBiscuit> Mentoring of new members I imagine
[20:20] <CensoredBiscuit> kinda like UBT
[20:21] <CensoredBiscuit> since the same people who run UBT do speechcontrol, for the most part
[20:21] <phillw> UBT is an area where people who want to give something back to the Ubuntu family are given help to achieve it. Take a tour of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/MissionStatement and ask on here or #ubuntu-beginners-team for more information.
[20:21] <JackyAlcine> Not sure if I'm capable enough to mentor as of yet.
[20:21] <JackyAlcine> Still have things to learn.
[20:21] <MrChrisDruif> Mentor is someone who is skilled in a specific job (programming C++/Python, packaging or wiki work)
[20:21] <phillw> JackyAlcine: that is exactly why the mentoring process exists.
[20:22] <pedro3005> okay
[20:22] <CensoredBiscuit> So a programming mentorship?
[20:22] <pedro3005> is there anyone here who is capable of mentoring?
[20:22] <tenach> JackyAlcine: I'm a mentor and I've got a ways to learn myself.
[20:22]  * tenach is a mentor
[20:22] <phillw> hiyas tenach
[20:22] <tenach> Hello phillw
[20:22] <hajour> o/ tenach
[20:22] <tenach> o7 hajour
[20:22] <JackyAlcine> tenach: =] I guess I could bring people about Web programming, that I can teach confidiently. And C#.
[20:22] <CensoredBiscuit> I think we should at this time open a vote to start a speechcontrol mentorship program
[20:23] <UndiFineD> i have already taken on MrChrisDruif
[20:23] <pedro3005> wait, wait.
[20:23] <tenach> Hold on.
[20:23] <pedro3005> What exactly are we mentoring on?
[20:23] <hajour> first let phillw tell more
[20:23] <pedro3005> I suppose the objective of speech control mentoring is to mentor about development/maintaining speech control
[20:24] <phillw> the UBT council have said that accessibility and speechcontrol come under 'development' area
[20:24] <UndiFineD> i think that is right pedro3005
[20:24] <pedro3005> So general programming should be left to beginners-dev
[20:25] <CensoredBiscuit> So therefore what is there to mentor
[20:25] <phillw> by entering the UBT project, those wishing to learn more will have excellent people to help them.
[20:26] <hajour> i think to take skilled people into speechcontrol and students .but we already did only then its more official right?
[20:26] <phillw> including some scarily awesome programmers :)
[20:26] <CensoredBiscuit> but doesn't UBT have the whole mentring thing covered?
[20:27] <phillw> hajour: yes, it is a way of ensuring people think about accessibility as they learn.
[20:27] <pedro3005> exactly my point, this mentoring should be restricted to speech control topics.
[20:27] <UndiFineD> great plan :)
[20:27] <tenach> It makes more sense to me to have UBT take care of mentoring and have this as a project people can work on in that system..?
[20:27] <CensoredBiscuit> So are we ready to have a vote?
[20:27] <hajour> i think its a great plan
[20:27] <tenach> Scratch that, pedro3005 said it better. :)
[20:28] <CensoredBiscuit> [vote] Starting a speech control mentoring program
[20:28] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Starting a speech control mentoring program.
[20:28] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[20:28] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[20:28] <MrChrisDruif> I agree with pedro3005 and tenach :)
[20:28] <phillw> +1
[20:28] <MootBot> +1 received from phillw. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[20:28] <UndiFineD> +1
[20:28] <MootBot> +1 received from UndiFineD. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[20:28] <CensoredBiscuit> +0
[20:28] <MootBot> Abstention received from CensoredBiscuit. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[20:28] <pedro3005> +1
[20:28] <MootBot> +1 received from pedro3005. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[20:28] <MrChrisDruif> If it's going to be like those two said...
[20:28] <bedahr> +0
[20:28] <MootBot> Abstention received from bedahr. 3 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 3
[20:28] <MrChrisDruif> +1
[20:28] <MootBot> +1 received from MrChrisDruif. 4 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 4
[20:28] <JackyAlcine> +1
[20:28] <MootBot> +1 received from JackyAlcine. 5 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 5
[20:28] <hajour> i think  to and accessibility and speechcontrol because its both s
[20:29] <hajour> +1
[20:29] <MootBot> +1 received from hajour. 6 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[20:29] <CensoredBiscuit> :30 left on the vote
[20:30] <CensoredBiscuit> [endvote]
[20:30] <MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 6
[20:30] <MrChrisDruif> CensoredBiscuit: agreed ;) ?
[20:30] <phillw> As this is a young project, we can work on the details.
[20:30] <CensoredBiscuit> Let the record show the members have voted to start a mentor ship program
[20:31] <JackyAlcine> phillw, true enough.
[20:31] <CensoredBiscuit> should we discuss
[20:31] <CensoredBiscuit> who to put in charge of it next meeting
[20:31] <MrChrisDruif> CensoredBiscuit: Use [agreed] I think...
[20:31] <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: That's towards the end of the meeting.
[20:31] <hajour> but its volunteer its not something everyone must do from the team
[20:31] <CensoredBiscuit> very well
[20:32] <CensoredBiscuit> next topic
[20:32] <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: yeah [agreed] to soldify results.
[20:32] <hajour> only if the person self it wants
[20:32] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Licensing
[20:32] <MootBot> New Topic:  Licensing
[20:32] <RainCT> Hey
[20:32] <UndiFineD> hey RainCT
[20:32] <hajour> hai RainCT
[20:32] <phillw> hi RainCT
[20:33] <MrChrisDruif> So now we skip Documentation? :-/
[20:33] <RainCT> Sorry, just got home (well, actually I arrived 15 minutes ago but Debian decided it wants to check the disk for errors -.-. I should really disable those checks)
[20:33] <JackyAlcine> Well, someone's a celebrity. lol
[20:33] <CensoredBiscuit> We already discuiss documentation?
[20:33] <MrChrisDruif> CensoredBiscuit: Partly...
[20:33] <UndiFineD> documentation is already a W.I.P.
[20:33] <hajour> CensoredBiscuit, i  think some wants to tell more about documentation
[20:33] <JackyAlcine> Well, lol.
[20:33] <CensoredBiscuit> anways
[20:33] <CensoredBiscuit> lets go back
[20:34] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] documentation
[20:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  documentation
[20:34] <phillw> MrChrisDruif: when myself and cproffit get some quality time together, we will put the new headers on and start to split the pages.
[20:34] <phillw> he has already created them
[20:35] <MrChrisDruif> phillw: Alright, I didn't know that. I already started a bit on that :)
[20:35] <CensoredBiscuit> the pages do seem cluttered
[20:35] <UndiFineD> well we can split so topics from the current pages
[20:35] <UndiFineD> *some
[20:35] <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: that is because we have not had chance to start splitting them
[20:35] <UndiFineD> heh
[20:36] <CensoredBiscuit> very well.
[20:36] <JackyAlcine> How about a spot for blueprints?
[20:36] <JackyAlcine> Just a wish :)
[20:36] <CensoredBiscuit> there is the proposed adition of a developmental page
[20:36] <MrChrisDruif> phillw: Shall I continue with it or leave you and Charles to it?
[20:36] <UndiFineD> alright weÄºl make room for that
[20:37] <phillw> UndiFineD: exactly that, but Myself and cproffit need a bit of time to edit the current accessibility header into speechcontrol, we are making progress :)
[20:37] <UndiFineD> ok :)
[20:37] <CensoredBiscuit> the blueprints would be on the development page wouldn't it be?
[20:37] <phillw> MrChrisDruif: charles has already made the new headers.
[20:38] <UndiFineD> CensoredBiscuit: the blueprints are on LP
[20:38] <CensoredBiscuit> so then why do we need them on wiki?
[20:38] <JackyAlcine> They usually want a link to a Wiki with more information.
[20:38] <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: for the speechcontrol header :D
[20:38] <CensoredBiscuit> ahh so link the header to LP?
[20:39] <UndiFineD> so the wiki blueprints are for further details
[20:39] <JackyAlcine> Something like that.
[20:39] <CensoredBiscuit> very well,
[20:39] <JackyAlcine> ^^ yeah
[20:39] <CensoredBiscuit> now lets move to licensing?
[20:39] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Licensing in GPL
[20:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Licensing in GPL
[20:39] <UndiFineD> yes
[20:39] <hajour> so the bleuprints come on the wiki
[20:40] <CensoredBiscuit> We are going to license the project in GPL
[20:40] <UndiFineD> good choice which version ?
[20:40] <CensoredBiscuit> the agenda does not state
[20:40] <MrChrisDruif> 3
[20:40] <MrChrisDruif> It's on the wiki
[20:40] <CensoredBiscuit> verywell
[20:40] <phillw> hopefully this should be quick... As the licence is now on the speechcontrol wiki page, that allows the team to retain copyright, others to alter the code and commercial companies cannot steal it
[20:41] <MrChrisDruif> Atleast, the logo from 3 is on it...
[20:41] <JackyAlcine> We're licensing every bit of code that SpeechControl produces under the GPL3 license.
[20:41] <CensoredBiscuit> I think GPL 3 is indeed the way to go.
[20:41] <RainCT> GPLv3 or GPLv3+?
[20:41] <bedahr> the distribution restrictions on the development code only apply to wintermute, not speech-control, right?
[20:42] <CensoredBiscuit> I believe that is correct bedahr
[20:42] <phillw> RainCT: we're on GPLv3
[20:42] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: Define 'restrictions'.
[20:42] <strikeu> JackyAlcine: how about LGPL for libs ?
[20:43] <UndiFineD> strikeu: no, one licence
[20:43] <phillw> strikeu: the GPL people really do not like LGPL, it cuts down on collabaration.
[20:43] <CensoredBiscuit> one license would be a lot less work to implement
[20:44] <bedahr> JackyAlcine: your mail said that the code (for, I'm presuming, wintermute) was not to be made public
[20:44] <RainCT> CensoredBiscuit: Uhm, how so? It wouldn't make a difference.     I agree with GPL being better than LGPL though.
[20:44] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: In its intial stages, yes.
[20:44] <strikeu> heh
[20:44] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: That'll be explained.
[20:44] <hajour>  GPLv3 was good i have informed
[20:44] <CensoredBiscuit> Verywell
[20:45] <JackyAlcine> hajour decided.
[20:45] <CensoredBiscuit> lets move on to the listing of our projects
[20:45] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Listing Of Projects
[20:45] <MootBot> New Topic:  Listing Of Projects
[20:46] <JackyAlcine> Alright.
[20:46] <CensoredBiscuit> The current projects I know of are Simon Listens, Julius and Wintermute
[20:46] <CensoredBiscuit> but I'm probably going to let JackyAlcine have this part
[20:46] <JackyAlcine> So far, SpeechControl's primary concern has been getting the Java-based TTS engine, openMary to be more Linux-friendly.
[20:47] <bedahr> (For the record: The software project is called "simon" - "simon listens" is the non-profit organization behind it)
[20:47] <MrChrisDruif> Java based...yagh
[20:47] <JackyAlcine> that's under the libopenmary, python-openmary and speechcontrol-daemon
[20:48] <JackyAlcine> speechcontrol-daemon's a special project to be ventured because it'll intergrate voice recognition into the Linux Speech API.
[20:48] <CensoredBiscuit> So is there anyone here who can list the projects and there attendees?
[20:48] <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: I'm doing so.
[20:48] <CensoredBiscuit> okay then.
[20:48] <JackyAlcine> Wintermute's another project that'll be discussed in a few moments that'll will be one of the larger goals and pursuits of SpeechControl Developers.
[20:49] <phillw> we have 10 minutes left.....
[20:49] <JackyAlcine> We'll have to move it to #ubuntu-speechcontrol then.
[20:49] <JackyAlcine> BUT I'm done with this section.
[20:50] <CensoredBiscuit> Lets go to the progress on simon listens
[20:50] <CensoredBiscuit> or just sim
[20:50] <CensoredBiscuit> simon*
[20:50] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Simon
[20:50] <MootBot> New Topic:  Simon
[20:50] <UndiFineD> the suggestion to discuss winitermute in #ubuntu-speechcontrol seems fine :)
[20:50] <DanteAshton> *heads there*
[20:50] <CensoredBiscuit> are you wanting to further contine the meeting in speech control JackyAlcine
[20:50]  * techgeek_squared also heads there
[20:51] <JackyAlcine> Yes, CensoredBiscuit but after we end here.
[20:51] <CensoredBiscuit> very weel
[20:51] <CensoredBiscuit> anyone have any word on the development of Simon
[20:51] <UndiFineD> bedahr: ?
[20:51] <bedahr> yes
[20:51] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: I've been keeping up with your blog; congrats. :D
[20:52] <phillw> use the devs area while you people discuss dev issuues, It is why it is there :)
[20:52] <bedahr> well to be honest I have been pretty swamped this last couple of weeks (university) but I think it's RainCT who you want to talk to anyways
[20:52] <bedahr> RainCT: Was there any progress on the patches
[20:52] <RainCT> Not yet, I've just finished exams.
[20:53] <CensoredBiscuit> So not much progress on Simon?
[20:53] <CensoredBiscuit> anyways lets move on to Julius
[20:53] <bedahr> no but again, there aren't any real open todos on simon anyways in my opinion?
[20:54] <bedahr> aside from packaging I don't have anything on my todo list related to speechcontrol
[20:54] <bedahr> have I forgotten anything?
[20:54] <CensoredBiscuit> Nope
[20:54] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: Aside from that, no.
[20:54] <JackyAlcine> bedahr: You're clear ;]
[20:54] <CensoredBiscuit> okay lets move on to Julius
[20:54] <bedahr> JackyAlcine: :D
[20:55] <CensoredBiscuit> topic] Julius Development
[20:55] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] Julius Development
[20:55] <MootBot> New Topic:  Julius Development
[20:55] <CensoredBiscuit> any word on Julius?
[20:56] <JackyAlcine> I've taken a pick at the software; god do I regret doing that.
[20:56] <JackyAlcine> It's not too user-friendly upon install and first configuration.
[20:56] <JackyAlcine> And such issues can be fixed with approriate tools.
[20:56] <MrChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: So that would need to improve?
[20:57] <JackyAlcine> Greatly.
[20:57] <CensoredBiscuit> we're gonna need to move the meeting to #ubuntu-speechcontrol
[20:57] <CensoredBiscuit> but quickly before we do
[20:57] <MrChrisDruif> CensoredBiscuit: Suggestion: just go there?
[20:57] <UndiFineD> next meeting time and chair ?
[20:57] <CensoredBiscuit> would you all like to discuss the details of next meeting?
[20:57] <JackyAlcine> lol
[20:58] <CensoredBiscuit> [topic] next meeting
[20:58] <MootBot> New Topic:  next meeting
[20:58] <CensoredBiscuit> I think It should be a saturday
[20:58] <JackyAlcine> O.o THIS Saturday?
[20:58] <UndiFineD> no
[20:58] <UndiFineD> :)
[20:58] <JackyAlcine> *whew*
[20:58] <hajour> no not this Saturday
[20:58] <CensoredBiscuit> how about Feb 19  UTC 20:00
[20:58]  * strikeu this is madness
[20:59] <CensoredBiscuit> hows that?
[20:59] <JackyAlcine> In the DEV channel (#ubuntu-speechcontrol-devs); we're out of time.
[20:59] <CensoredBiscuit> end meeting?
[20:59] <strikeu> yeah I'm going play sc2
[20:59] <hajour> talking futher in #ubuntu-speechcontrol-devs
[20:59] <CensoredBiscuit> #endmeeting
[20:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 14:59.
[21:00] <hajour> thanks for doing the chair CensoredBiscuit
[21:00] <JackyAlcine> cheers to CensoredBiscuit. o/
</pre>

Meeting started by JackyAlcine at 21:02:02 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-speechcontrol-devs/2011/ubuntu-speechcontrol-devs.2011-01-21-21.02.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Julius patching for Linux

* Progress of Development

* Beta and Alpha Releases
''ACTION:'' Focus on libopenmary  (JackyAlcine, 21:26:41)

* Upcoming Projects: speechcontrol-daemon

* Upcoming Projects: Wintermute
''LINK:'' http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-5144094928842683632#   (JackyAlcine, 21:42:06)

Meeting ended at 22:05:40 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* Focus on libopenmary

=== People present (lines said) ===

* JackyAlcine (93)
* DanteAshton (55)
* techgeek_squared (43)
* bedahr (36)
* pedro3005 (20)
* meetingology (8)
* MrChrisDruif (8)
* RainCT (7)
* CensoredBiscuit (7)
* UndiFineD (7)
* hajour (4)
* tenach (3)
* phillw (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>
 21:02:02 <JackyAlcine> #startmeeting
 21:02:02 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Jan 21 21:02:02 2011 UTC.  The chair is JackyAlcine. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
 21:02:02 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.
 21:02:05 <bedahr> RainCT: The julius part should be up to date but I would prefer it if you use the git version...
 21:02:07 <CensoredBiscuit> neet go to to bathroom
 21:02:15 <JackyAlcine> #topic Julius patching for Linux
 21:02:15 <meetingology> TOPIC: Julius patching for Linux
 21:02:47 <JackyAlcine> So bedahr and RainCT, about that.
 21:02:48 <phillw> bless him, he was dead nervous about it... but it is a part of him learning admin stuff.
 21:03:12 <bedahr> RainCT: we could, if this would make things easier, patch simon to work around the Julius bugs
 21:03:29 <JackyAlcine> bedahr: Describe those bugs, if you can.
 21:03:32 <bedahr> the newest simon version uses much fewer functions of Julius so that would be an option
 21:03:52 <bedahr> Julius doesn't cope well with stopping and starting the recognition
 21:04:25 <bedahr> the simon patches are just fixes / workarounds to fix that; Stock Julius crashes / hangs on many code paths in this case
 21:04:54 <JackyAlcine> Wait, restarting or initial start?
 21:05:09 <bedahr> restarting
 21:05:16 <CensoredBiscuit> back
 21:05:33 <bedahr> Julius itself can't be "stopped" unless you stop the whole Julius application
 21:05:39 <JackyAlcine> Hmm.
 21:05:54 <JackyAlcine> That *is* an issue, and a bit of a silly one if you ask me.
 21:06:00 <bedahr> the re-factoring of Julius to libjulius included stop() methods but they were pretty much untested as far as I can tell as they didn't work at all
 21:06:25 <bedahr> it was a major problem in the development of simon 0.2 with early prototypes crashing all the time due to bugs in Julius
 21:06:49 <bedahr> however, since simon 0.3 we do file-based recognition by effectively streaming a wave file over the network (using our own voice activity code instead of using the Julius one as of simon 0.2)
 21:07:10 <bedahr> we _could_ modify simond to really start the stock julius executable on every utterance
 21:07:25 <JackyAlcine> bedahr: But would Julius load quickly enough?
 21:07:28 <bedahr> of course this has major performance implications (julius would need to parse the HMM for each recognition), etc.
 21:07:32 <bedahr> :)
 21:07:50 <bedahr> Answer: It doesn't once the model becomes large enough
 21:07:57 <RainCT> bedahr: I'll look into the patches, I'd be great if Julius in Debian could be fixed to behave properly as a library. But it's good to know there's also an emergency plan :)
 21:08:11 <bedahr> this would only be a stop-gap meassure if getting the patched Julius in the repository is proving difficult
 21:08:18 <JackyAlcine> Hm, is there a chance of perhaps turning Julius into a server system and have the client as a library?
 21:08:20 <bedahr> RainCT: exactly
 21:08:41 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: there is such a system; They call it "adinnet"
 21:09:00 <bedahr> we used it in simon 0.2
 21:09:06 <JackyAlcine> Hm, no good?
 21:09:10 * UndiFineD tickles TheMuso interest
 21:09:15 <bedahr> well it suffers from the same drawbacks
 21:09:15 <pedro3005> JackyAlcine, is it ok if I PM you with questions?
 21:09:23 <bedahr> the problem is in the core handling of the soundstream
 21:09:33 <JackyAlcine> pedro3005: Go aheadd.
 21:09:41 <bedahr> (the patched version works around those issues btw. so it's not like it's an unsolvable problem)
 21:10:25 <RainCT> bedahr: "using our own voice activity code instead of using the Julius one" - what does that code do?
 21:10:52 <bedahr> the patch isn't written that seriously, tough to be honest (I distinctly remember creating a variable this_is_sparta once but I think I cleaned that up afterwards)
 21:11:16 <RainCT> Haha. That's a good name for a variable :)
 21:11:23 <bedahr> RainCT: it's a simple level based VAD system that trys to detect voice (not recognize, just detect)
 21:12:17 <bedahr> RainCT: yes it had a codepath to the effect of (this_is_sparta) /* THIS IS MADNESS */ return error;
 21:12:47 <RainCT> Oh, nice. I'm wondering, is that something which could be interesting for SpeechControl (if it is freely available)?
 21:12:48 <RainCT> lol
 21:13:11 <bedahr> Well Julius does have it's own;
 21:13:34 <bedahr> also, the last time we talked speech-control was using a minimalized version of simon for the recognition so that would obviously be included...?
 21:13:42 <JackyAlcine> Yes.s
 21:13:47 <bedahr> great
 21:14:28 <RainCT> Okay
 21:14:29 <JackyAlcine> Alright, next topic, been prolonging for a while
 21:14:35 <JackyAlcine> #topic Progress of Development
 21:14:35 <meetingology> TOPIC: Progress of Development
 21:15:07 <JackyAlcine> Well, so far libopenmary is doing its best to make utilization of openMary as easy and comfortable for end developers.
 21:15:31 <JackyAlcine> So far, it can hypothetically synthesize text in two lines of code.
 21:15:41 <JackyAlcine> openMary::Engine theEngine
 21:15:53 <JackyAlcine> theEngine.sayText("Hello world.");
 21:16:13 <JackyAlcine> The library handles the encoding, parsing, locales, etc.
 21:16:33 <JackyAlcine> And there's means of changing the locale, voice and soon to be support for effects and features as well.
 21:16:49 <JackyAlcine> The code can be browsed at via Bazaar (lp:libopenmary)
 21:17:16 <JackyAlcine> python-openmary's essistantal the same.
 21:17:41 <JackyAlcine> But speechcontrol-daemon is going to be what handles the SpeechDispatcher connections for speech synthesis and voice recognition (perhaps).
 21:17:59 <JackyAlcine> A bit more investigation of integration with SpeechDispatcher is needed.
 21:18:01 <JackyAlcine> ??
 21:18:24 <bedahr> shouldn't the openmary be a backend to speech-dispatcher?
 21:18:33 <RainCT> I can't get speech dispatcher to work, by the way. Can someone later help me figuring out what's wrong?
 21:19:03 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: locale in, can differ from, locale out ?
 21:19:22 <JackyAlcine> bedahr: That's done by having the speechcontrol-daemon use the libopenmary library to work with speech-dispatcher.
 21:19:37 <JackyAlcine> UndiFineD: Hasn't been implemented yet, libopenmary doesn't offer translations.
 21:20:28 <bedahr> JackyAlcine: so the library isn't meant to be used direcly?
 21:20:39 <bedahr> *directly
 21:20:52 <JackyAlcine> bedahr: It *can* be, but it's a means of simplifying interactions with openMary for all.
 21:21:13 <bedahr> as I understand it all apps should use speech-dispatcher that in turn uses any backend it wants (including a possible openmary backend)
 21:22:25 <JackyAlcine> Yeah.
 21:22:31 <bedahr> I'm just asking...
 21:22:41 <JackyAlcine> No, it's a valid question, it's cool.
 21:23:08 <JackyAlcine> But like it's us implementing a means for *direct* interactions, in case someone prefers it over speech-dispatchers' API.
 21:23:46 <bedahr> yes but providing two different apis will ultimatily lead to more work maintaining the solution in my opinion
 21:24:24 <JackyAlcine> Hm, I understand. Well, the *primary* goal at the moment is to just get a library for openMary.
 21:24:36 <JackyAlcine> I guess it can be the *sole* goal if push comes to shove.
 21:24:59 <bedahr> ok
 21:25:27 <JackyAlcine> alright.
 21:25:41 <JackyAlcine> #topic Beta and Alpha Releases
 21:25:41 <meetingology> TOPIC: Beta and Alpha Releases
 21:25:53 <JackyAlcine> Well, this is the nitty-gritty part.
 21:25:57 <techgeek_squared> you probably want to warn potential users not to bake their code too hard
 21:26:19 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: That can be advised in its Doxygen, good suggestion.
 21:26:34 <MrChrisDruif> Ow...we first make beta release and than alpha? :P
 21:26:41 <JackyAlcine> #action Focus on libopenmary
 21:26:41 * meetingology Focus on libopenmary
 21:27:05 <JackyAlcine> Yup.
 21:27:31 <JackyAlcine> libopenmary comes with an application, openmary-cli, which is simply an applications that constantly pumps text to openMary and PulseAudio.

 21:28:06 <JackyAlcine> That being said, testing the software is available as soon as we get a .deb up in the teams' PPA.
 21:28:08 <JackyAlcine> Questions?
 21:28:16 <techgeek_squared> does it gracefully handle pulseaudio crashes/hangs and restarts?
 21:28:26 <techgeek_squared> I ask because in my experience pulse falls over quite a lot
 21:28:39 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: Does anything? smh. Not really and I've encountered it as well.
 21:28:40 <MrChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: ^
 21:28:54 <techgeek_squared> and it's annoying to have to restart every sound-using app every time it happens
 21:29:17 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: I was considering buffering empty sound to prevent it.
 21:29:31 <techgeek_squared> maybe if there's a way to make it re-init its pulse connection by sending it a signal
 21:29:32 <JackyAlcine> Unless anyone else has a cleverer idea.
 21:29:45 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: It creates a new connection each time.
 21:29:46 * techgeek_squared doesn't know enough about pulse's api
 21:30:18 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: Using the Simple API, it recreates and destroys the pa_simple();
 21:30:38 <techgeek_squared> right, I imagine then that that would start working again as soon as you restart pulse
 21:30:57 <JackyAlcine> Yup.
 21:30:59 <techgeek_squared> without having to restart openmary-cli
 21:31:01 <techgeek_squared> that's good
 21:31:19 <JackyAlcine> For now, hopefully people don't synthesize hours long of text.
 21:31:56 * DanteAshton puts his hopes of getting openMary to convert his e-books to audiobooks behind him...
 21:32:08 <techgeek_squared> maybe if you also have an option to send the output to stdout as wave data...
 21:32:15 <techgeek_squared> and not use pulse at all
 21:32:20 <techgeek_squared> (pipelines are good :))
 21:32:28 * DanteAshton reignites his hopes
 21:32:40 <hajour> i don't know all tenach can do but i know he works a lot with audio/sound from music
 21:32:42 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: Well, it does that. Before sending it to Pulse, it saves the audio to find and pumps it up back out.
 21:33:25 <JackyAlcine> alright.
 21:33:29 <JackyAlcine> That's about solved.
 21:33:31 <JackyAlcine> Now.
 21:33:44 <JackyAlcine> #topic Upcoming Projects: speechcontrol-daemon
 21:33:44 <meetingology> TOPIC: Upcoming Projects: speechcontrol-daemon
 21:34:07 <JackyAlcine> strikeu's a bit gifted with daemon constructing so any questions about this can be bounced to him.
 21:34:50 <JackyAlcine> Any or no?
 21:35:09 <JackyAlcine> Alright...
 21:35:10 <JackyAlcine> #topic Upcoming Projects: Wintermute
 21:35:10 <meetingology> TOPIC: Upcoming Projects: Wintermute
 21:35:40 <DanteAshton> Yay!
 21:35:57 <JackyAlcine> Now, I know I've badgered the idea of this project into the team's head via e-mail and what not.
 21:36:25 <JackyAlcine> I decided that each and every one of us here could contribute to such an idea (https://www.launchpad.net/wintermute)
 21:36:34 <JackyAlcine> because of our skills.
 21:36:47 <JackyAlcine> And not only programming, our personalities can help as well.
 21:36:50 <hajour> mm problem i cant come on my email at the moment i have to do tha so on UndiFineD  his pc
 21:37:29 <JackyAlcine> Wintermute's the brainchild of DanteAshton of implementing an open-source, GPL3, Artificial Intelligence system.
 21:37:40 <DanteAshton> Hello everyone.
 21:37:44 <DanteAshton> :)
 21:37:50 <hajour> so i could help in this to i understand
 21:37:57 <UndiFineD> amusing wordings :)
 21:38:16 <MrChrisDruif> Hai DanteAshton :)
 21:38:21 <JackyAlcine> :D DanteAshton, would you mind elaborating a bit more on Wintermute and its aspirations?
 21:38:26 <hajour> hai DanteAshton :)
 21:38:27 <DanteAshton> Indeedy
 21:38:38 <MrChrisDruif> My thoughts exactly :)
 21:38:40 <DanteAshton> Wintermute is an advanced AI. Highly advanced.
 21:39:00 <DanteAshton> the reason it exists is that there is almost no AI technology in FOSS
 21:39:09 <DanteAshton> not even a basic grammar checker.
 21:39:43 <DanteAshton> using my experience, we can build a system. Using the development model of F/OSS, it can be greater then it's closed source counterparts
 21:39:59 <UndiFineD> to make it a bit clear to anyone here, in my contract I must ask my boss if I may develop on anything in my spare time, so until that is clear I will not develop in my spare time, but I am free to document
 21:40:11 * JackyAlcine makes a note.
 21:40:24 <DanteAshton> Wintermute is designed to take natural langauge (like English) and understand it
 21:40:39 <DanteAshton> on one level, it could operate as a more natural way to use the terminal
 21:40:44 <DanteAshton> but it could be so much more then that
 21:41:01 <DanteAshton> I'd advise those interested to look up Apple's Knowledge Navigator concept
 21:41:24 <DanteAshton> with us today is techgeek_squared, who created Wintermute v1; whose name at the time was VIRGIL.
 21:41:34 <techgeek_squared> Hello.
 21:42:06 <JackyAlcine> #link http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-5144094928842683632#
 21:42:07 <DanteAshton> VIRGIL was a small breakthrough at the time, as techgeek_squared had a lovely little trick to avoid the computational requirements for neural networks
 21:42:11 <DanteAshton> thank you, Jacky.
 21:42:15 <techgeek_squared> If anyone is interested in finding out about VIRGIL, it currently lives on the IRC channel irc.newnet.net#virgil
 21:42:38 <DanteAshton> The system I intend to build will not only result in the creation of one of the most powerful systems ever created.
 21:42:41 <JackyAlcine> That link is a link to the Apple Knowledge Navigator, mentioned by Dante.
 21:43:10 <DanteAshton> it will also spawn mutiple smaller projects, to cover up F/OSS's holes in AI, such as the aforementioned grammar checker
 21:43:35 <DanteAshton> the design, inspired by Jacky, will also solve a number of problems that have been causing headaches in the field for the past 40 years
 21:43:59 <DanteAshton> I would do the whole thing by myself, but I'm heavily disabled, and may, in fact, be dead within five years.
 21:44:21 <DanteAshton> So, I request everyone's help. Help me help F/OSS. Help me bring Wintermute to life.
 21:44:27 <techgeek_squared> I should add that in many ways the original Virgil did not prove a great success; it tends to talk in a disjointed way, with no understanding of grammar or sentence structure.
 21:44:29 <DanteAshton> Thank you.
 21:45:03 <DanteAshton> a technical fault which my latest plans can solve.
 21:45:08 <techgeek_squared> This is mainly my own fault; I have next to no experience in AI programming and there were many flaws in Virgil's design.
 21:45:16 <DanteAshton> Any questions?
 21:45:22 <bedahr> yes
 21:45:52 <tenach> I am very interested to see what VIRGIL does as well as help out where I can with Wintermute.
 21:46:10 <MrChrisDruif> In what way can (even not programmers) help realize this program?
 21:46:21 <bedahr> I hate to be pragmatic but: Do we have the needed know-how? You reference your experience? What have you worked on in the past?
 21:46:25 <DanteAshton> Wintermute's design is unique
 21:46:48 <DanteAshton> I worked on a program called Jeeney; I can't say much about it due to legal restrictions
 21:47:10 <JackyAlcine> ChrisDruif: You can help fill its mind (https://www.launchpad.net/~wintermute-psych)
 21:47:12 <CensoredBiscuit> DanteAshton your the designer of wintermute?
 21:47:20 <DanteAshton> Yes.
 21:47:34 <DanteAshton> Wintermute needs a team of robopsychologists.
 21:47:57 <DanteAshton> This requires no programming knowledge; all that's needed is a good grasp of english and the abilty to think logically.
 21:47:57 <CensoredBiscuit> don't they need a college degree
 21:48:21 <DanteAshton> No, those wishing to apply will be tested with three simple questions.
 21:48:25 <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: Did your mother need one to tell you right from wrong? Or that food belongs in your mouth?
 21:48:41 <CensoredBiscuit> Oh
 21:48:45 <CensoredBiscuit> Heh
 21:48:47 <JackyAlcine> Lol, just a question. You'll be making the 'links' needed for it to make sense.
 21:48:54 <CensoredBiscuit> I should apply
 21:48:59 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: We have *so* much to discuss.
 21:49:14 <DanteAshton> Jacky, go easy on techgeek.
 21:49:31 <DanteAshton> I would suggest each applicant PM me on here.
 21:49:32 <JackyAlcine> BUT I have plans. We'll start working on probably the most pivotal part of Wintermute, comprehension.
 21:49:52 <pedro3005> Wintermute is developed with C++?
 21:49:58 <JackyAlcine> And that's where Panlingua came up from, thanks to waywardgeek (Bill Cox)
 21:50:01 <techgeek_squared> Jacky: it's ok, I'm happy to discuss plenty
 21:50:23 <DanteAshton> There are engineering concerns to consider and breakthrough as well; a very worthy challenge if I ever saw one
 21:50:29 <JackyAlcine> pedro3005: Primarly, although VIRGIL is coded in C.
 21:50:42 <pedro3005> what is VIRGIL?
 21:50:50 <MrChrisDruif> What was that Panlingua you were and are talking about?
 21:51:00 <JackyAlcine> lol, hold on guys.
 21:51:25 <DanteAshton> VIRGIL was an older attempt at recreating the Jeeney system
 21:51:35 <JackyAlcine> ^^ pedro3005
 21:51:45 <pedro3005> what is Jeeney?
 21:51:46 <pedro3005> :P
 21:51:48 <DanteAshton> although it did suffer from a few slight problems, the concept was sound.
 21:51:52 <DanteAshton> www.jeeney.com
 21:52:02 <pedro3005> and we are reusing this VIRGIL code?
 21:52:07 <techgeek_squared> In many ways VIRGIL was a playground for my ideas in scruffy AI and natural language processing.
 21:52:13 <DanteAshton> I would urge you not to contact her developer as I am under risk of legal persecurtion
 21:52:15 <JackyAlcine> pedro3005: More like improving.
 21:52:56 <JackyAlcine> and ChrisDruif: Panlingua's a theory by Chamount Devin that all languages have one underlying 'lingustic medium' and that this can be implemented by links and nodes.
 21:53:01 <techgeek_squared> There were many ideas (such as TAIL - Targets AI Language) which I never implemented; VIRGIL is an ongoing project for me which is entirely separate from Wintermute, but Wm is welcome to reuse any ideas or code considered worth having
 21:53:04 <pedro3005> and you guys are experienced in AI / NLP?
 21:53:18 <DanteAshton> I am, yes.
 21:53:37 <techgeek_squared> I'm really not - I'm a second year mathematics student and I've never taken any formal course in AI
 21:53:53 <DanteAshton> Neither have I; all I have is experience and a lot of contacts in the field..
 21:54:00 <techgeek_squared> I just got Dante to explain some basic concepts to me and I started coding...
 21:54:25 <techgeek_squared> Anyone interested in seeing Virgil in action should join #virgil on irc.newnet.net
 21:54:37 <DanteAshton> I must warn you, it's a bit stir-crazy
 21:54:46 <techgeek_squared> yeah I think I mentioned that already
 21:55:12 <pedro3005> how big is the code?
 21:55:13 <techgeek_squared> but sometimes it says things that are slightly eerie
 21:55:18 <JackyAlcine> It's about 300 lines.
 21:55:23 <JackyAlcine> give or take.
 21:55:44 <MrChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: ~300 =-O
 21:55:44 <DanteAshton> and quite light on the system...
 21:55:57 <UndiFineD> pedro3005: you did that amazing stuff on self rewriting code, did you have any teachings on this ?
 21:56:00 <pedro3005> 300 lines of C?
 21:56:02 <techgeek_squared> the code of the current version is 872 lines (including comments, blank lines, etc)
 21:56:05 <techgeek_squared> of C
 21:56:07 <JackyAlcine> pedro3005: yup.
 21:56:14 <pedro3005> I see techgeek_squared
 21:56:20 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: I didn't have any comments. =/
 21:56:24 <pedro3005> UndiFineD, it was more GA stuff
 21:56:35 <DanteAshton> Wintermute (and VIRGIL) are neural net based.
 21:56:38 <pedro3005> meaning I have basic experience in genetic programming
 21:56:42 <DanteAshton> this means we have to teach them
 21:56:42 <pedro3005> if that's worth anything
 21:56:48 <DanteAshton> very similar in the way we do to a small child
 21:56:52 <JackyAlcine> Oops, I lied, its 628 lines, the edition I have.
 21:57:06 <DanteAshton> pedro3005: We may be looking at GA soon
 21:57:09 <pedro3005> techgeek_squared, can I download it from somewhere or can you send it to me?
 21:57:12 <DanteAshton> still light...
 21:57:20 <techgeek_squared> however most of what makes Virgil who/what he is lives in the entirely self-generated 'net' file, which is about 19MB of neural network connection data
 21:57:36 <techgeek_squared> encoding a 65536-node net connected as an 8-dimensional hypercube
 21:57:57 <JackyAlcine> This 'neural net' is what makes VIRGIL and potentially Wintermute 'aware'.
 21:58:26 <DanteAshton> for a given definition of 'self-aware' yes
 21:58:37 <DanteAshton> it is possible both are capable of meta-cognition
 21:58:44 <pedro3005> what do you plan to solve using GAs, DanteAshton ?
 21:58:52 <techgeek_squared> One of the most important things about Virgil (I gather Wintermute is different in this respect) is that it has no hard-coded rules of sentence structure or grammar
 21:58:53 <UndiFineD> bravo for the hypercube !
 21:59:02 <JackyAlcine> But in order to reduce the load on the net, and prevent damage to it, I'm implementing code that uses a Interlinguish (Panlingua array) ontology to render speech.
 21:59:15 <DanteAshton> one possible design using neural networks use them as a way to generate multiple neural nets
 21:59:28 <DanteAshton> I'd also like to point out that a neural network as hypercube has never been done before.
 21:59:36 <DanteAshton> So techgeek here deserves praise for that
 21:59:53 <techgeek_squared> Frankly I got the idea from TMC's Connection Machine
 21:59:55 <pedro3005> how exactly is it implemented as a hypercube?
 21:59:59 <pedro3005> I have trouble imagining that
 22:00:00 * JackyAlcine appluades techgeek_squared
 22:00:08 <techgeek_squared> which is an idea from about 1990
 22:00:20 <techgeek_squared> pedro: each node is connected to 16 other nodes
 22:00:41 <techgeek_squared> as a matter of fact its topology is a toroidal hypercube
 22:01:16 <pedro3005> and (sorry about the ignorance) this network is what does the learning?
 22:01:20 <techgeek_squared> yes
 22:01:44 <techgeek_squared> the code I wrote has no intelligence at all and never changes itself, it merely alters synapse weightings
 22:01:53 <techgeek_squared> by a simple feedback function
 22:02:06 <techgeek_squared> technically Virgil has two nets, one produces text, the other rates text
 22:02:23 <DanteAshton> that was another flaw, the ratings net always defaulted to three, if I recall?
 22:02:28 <techgeek_squared> and the first gets its feedback from the ratings produced by the second
 22:02:38 <pedro3005> how does a neural network produce text? I just have no experience in neural networks
 22:02:41 <tenach> That is amazing. :D
 22:02:50 * tenach is excited
 22:03:04 <JackyAlcine> pedro3005: I was in your shoes, :D this is why I was ghosting in and out.
 22:03:04 <techgeek_squared> the second, in turn, learns by the assumption that anything said to it by the user must be good text
 22:03:08 <UndiFineD> I have an OLD book on parallel programming with an image of a hypercube
 22:03:20 <JackyAlcine> tenach: Wait until we start coding.
 22:03:28 <techgeek_squared> pedro: certain nodes are associated with words in its dictionary
 22:03:49 <DanteAshton> this 'learning' requires Wintermute be protected
 22:03:51 <pedro3005> so nodes are associated to similar words?
 22:03:56 <techgeek_squared> when you say a word, its node fires.  When Virgil fires a word's node, it appends that word to its output
 22:04:07 <DanteAshton> and why I must screen everyone, we can't just let anyone talk to it
 22:04:33 <JackyAlcine> techgeek_squared: Is the base node a lexicon and the sub nodes like forms of the lexicons?
 22:04:35 <techgeek_squared> any association between similar words results from Virgil associating their nodes by paths in its neural net
 22:04:45 <techgeek_squared> Jacky: nothing so structured
 22:05:04 <JackyAlcine> hm.
 22:05:09 <MrChrisDruif> This is all over my head :)
 22:05:17 <JackyAlcine> ChrisDruif: :p
 22:05:37 <JackyAlcine> Well, I can say this. This meeting has to end eventually, BUT we can continue talking.
 22:05:40 <JackyAlcine> #endmeeting
</pre>

Meeting started by JackyAlcine at 22:09:40 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/ubuntu-speechcontrol-devs/2011/ubuntu-speechcontrol-devs.2011-01-21-22.09.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===
Meeting ended at 22:15:37 UTC.

=== Votes ===
* Meeting for February 19, 2011 @ 20:00 UTC
   For: 8 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===
* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* meetingology (15)
* JackyAlcine (9)
* phillw (5)
* pedro3005 (4)
* hajour (4)
* RainCT (2)
* DanteAshton (2)
* UndiFineD (1)
* CensoredBiscuit (1)
* bedahr (1)
* tenach (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>
 22:09:40 <JackyAlcine> #startmeeting
 22:09:40 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Jan 21 22:09:40 2011 UTC.  The chair is JackyAlcine. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
 22:09:40 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.
 22:09:45 <hajour> mm i am learning python now .
 22:10:02 <JackyAlcine> #vote Meeting for February 19, 2011 @ 20:00 UTC
 22:10:02 <meetingology> Please vote on: Meeting for February 19, 2011 @ 20:00 UTC
 22:10:02 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 22:10:07 <phillw> +1
 22:10:07 <meetingology> +1 received from phillw
 22:10:09 <JackyAlcine> +1
 22:10:10 <meetingology> +1 received from JackyAlcine
 22:10:13 <hajour> +1
 22:10:13 <meetingology> +1 received from hajour
 22:10:21 <bedahr> +1
 22:10:21 <meetingology> +1 received from bedahr
 22:10:49 <phillw> any more votes?
 22:10:54 <pedro3005> +1
 22:10:54 <meetingology> +1 received from pedro3005
 22:11:02 <UndiFineD> +1
 22:11:02 <meetingology> +1 received from UndiFineD
 22:11:44 <phillw> tenach: and RainCT?
 22:12:20 <RainCT> +1
 22:12:20 <meetingology> +1 received from RainCT
 22:12:44 <RainCT> pedro3005: Pyyyython! \o/
 22:12:56 <pedro3005> Ok, 3 pythoners :D
 22:13:08 <phillw> paultag: are you okay with Please vote on: Meeting for February 19, 2011 @ 20:00 UTC
 22:13:54 <CensoredBiscuit> +1
 22:13:54 <meetingology> +1 received from CensoredBiscuit
 22:14:00 <hajour> and 1 python student here just begone
 22:14:06 <JackyAlcine> #endvote
 22:14:06 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Meeting for February 19, 2011 @ 20:00 UTC
 22:14:06 <meetingology> Votes for:8 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0
 22:14:06 <meetingology> Motion carried
 22:14:25 <JackyAlcine> I still feel Python will be needed.
 22:14:41 <tenach> paultag is afk
 22:14:49 <pedro3005> tenach, RainCT, you two gotta help me code python-openmary :P
 22:14:51 <JackyAlcine> But I have to depart guys, I have to head to a birthday thing of a friend of mines.
 22:15:02 <hajour> pedro3005, ^
 22:15:11 <DanteAshton> Toodles, Jacky.
 22:15:16 <pedro3005> you can help too hajour
 22:15:18 <JackyAlcine> Until 4:00 UTC.
 22:15:23 <phillw> JackyAlcine: can you endmeeting before you go :)
 22:15:24 <DanteAshton> oh :P
 22:15:35 <JackyAlcine> llol
 22:15:37 <JackyAlcine> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
