{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:speech-recognition
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''Also see''': <nowiki>[[GUI]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[SpeechMaker]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

A roadmap for providing speech recognition on Ubuntu (an informational spec).

=== Release Note ===

''[speech recognition will be a long project; this release notes blurb describes the first component likely to land]''. A speech recognition utility lets you control your computer with simple commands like 'Open Firefox'. A new user interface utilises existing voice recognition engines like Sphinx.

=== Rationale ===

Robust speech recognition will be useful for many groups for both dictation and navigation. There are currently no workable solutions available on Linux.

=== Use Cases ===

* Professionals who perform dictation
* Non-lating language input
* Mobility impaired
* Sufferers of RSI
* Domotic and remote control
* User Authentication?

=== Assumptions ===

Making a start on certain key bits of the stack will act as a catalyst to move development forward in the more technical aspecs.

=== Design ===

==== Front end ====

Technically, the front end is the easiest part of the puzzle, and traditionally this would be left for the end. However there are good reasons for developing a good GUI early in this case as it can act as a catalyst for the more low-level work. See: <nowiki>[[GUI]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[SpeechMaker]]</nowiki>.

==== Speech recognition engines ====

Teams like Julius and Sphinx are working on open source solutions, but are largely held back by the lack of good free voice models, which in turn requires a large body of free, high quality voice data. The Vox``Forge project has been set up to provide this through community contributions, but the project needs a larger volunteer base and better end-user tools.

The front end should provide a simple way to record voice data and submit it to the Vox``Forge site directly. This will facilitate a distributed effort to improve recognition results. I should also be able to work with proprietary engines to be more immediately useful, speeding up general uptake of speech recognition on Linux.

=== Implementation ===

The Google Summer of Code project <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomeVoiceControl|Gnome Voice Control]]</nowiki> created a UI for a simple command utility. It performs tasks like controlling windows, starting programs, moving through menus and simple text manipulation.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Comments ===

Moved to <nowiki>[[Comments]]</nowiki>
