{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Robb Munson ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~r.munson|r.munson]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| robb.munson@gmail.com
|-
| '''IRC''':
| robbmunson on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|Freenode IRC network]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://www.facebook.com/robbalanmunson
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| robb.munson@gmail.com
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=127564|speeddemon8803]]</nowiki>
|}

Hey everyone its Robb here. I am 22 years old and I am an Ubuntu forums Beginner team member and a member of the bugsquad team.  I spend most of my time in #ubuntuforums-beginners on freenode helping users get their bearings straight in how to accomplish goals they have set out.  I have helped a fellow member PaulTAG with Sabre, an Amarok script to control your pc with a bluetooth enabled device.  I also actively administrate the forums for this script at http://sabrescriptsupport.makeforums.org or the redirect at http://sabre.paultags.com. I am a VoteBot developer and administrator, if you wanna know, just click the name or click <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/votebot|here]]</nowiki> I enjoy being here and helping users, I feel like if I help give back to the community that helped me so much....I have done a great deed. I also love helping out in #ubuntu with any questions that users may have about getting things to work right though I am less active in there than the beginner team room.  I may have a small forum post count but my contributions I believe more than speak for themselves.  Thanks for coming to my little corner of the Wiki and I hope you learned a little more about me! 
=== Testimonials ===

<nowiki>[[Bodhi6| Bodhi.zazen]]</nowiki> Robb has been an active member of the Beginner team for almost a year now and it has been a pleasure working with him. I support his application for membership.

<nowiki>[[Old_soldier| Old_Soldier]]</nowiki> I met Robb shortly after beginning my involvement with the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team. During the time I have known him, he has shown a thoughtful, common sense approach to problem solving and conflict resolution. His contributions to Ubuntu and the ideals behind the name reflect great credit upon his nature as a human being, and show the depths of his desire to be a contributing member of our community. I would ask that you consider him favorably for Ubuntu membership.

<nowiki>[[Bhavani_Shankar| Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki> Robb Munson, I met robbmunson shortly after beginning my involvement with the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team. During the time I have known him, he has shown a thoughtful, common sense approach to problem solving and conflict resolution and also in a uncomplicated friendly manner. I respect him whole heartedly as a human being due to the fact that he has a tremendous zeal to contribute to the community despite of serious physical problems and limitations. I would support his membership application whole heartedly. Cheers and keep rocking Robb :)  
----
CategoryHomepage
