{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Meeting started by Daniel0108 at 19:00:00 UTC.

=== Meeting summary ===
* Inferno IRC Bot
* InfernoBot
* previous meeting recap
* Inferno IRC Bot
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Blueprints/cmusphinx-train   (JackyAlcine, 19:26:10)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Blueprints   (UndiFineD, 19:28:44)

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Meetings   (UndiFineD, 19:29:36)

* Mozilla/chrome plugin
''LINK:'' https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/text-to-voice/   (UndiFineD, 19:38:00)

''ACTION:'' JackyAlcine: is tasked with leading a team to document said plugin and come up with a security plan that will be on next meetings agenda  (CensoredBiscuit, 19:45:16)

* answer section on launchpad
''ACTION:'' open up answers section and being monitored by CensoredBiscuit  (UndiFineD, 19:50:46)

* Speech Recognition

* Answers section
''ACTION:'' put answers section on next months agenda  (CensoredBiscuit, 19:55:20)

''ACTION:'' next meeting progress update on the answers section  (UndiFineD, 19:55:21)

* testing team
''ACTION:'' leoquant is to lead and setup a testing team in which we will get a status update from next meeting  (CensoredBiscuit, 20:01:35)

* VibraSound Equipment
''ACTION:'' Puting VirbaSound Equipment on next months agenda to hear what the team has come up with in terms of hardware manufacturers  (CensoredBiscuit, 20:14:36)

* Speech Recognition
''ACTION:'' JackyAlcine will look into PulseAudio for Speech Recognition and give an update on findings next meeting  (CensoredBiscuit, 20:30:51)

* New Ideas
''ACTION:'' UndiFineD to look into schoolboards  (UndiFineD, 20:48:30)

* other ideas
''ACTION:'' Cheri703 resarch calendar/reminder applications and report back at next meeting  (JackyAlcine, 21:14:00)

* moving upstream

* Bitesize projects
''ACTION:'' JackyAlcine to make a list of students and programmers, and assign a small task to each of them  (UndiFineD, 21:55:50)

* , next meeting
''ACTION:'' next meeting march 5th 19.00 utc  (UndiFineD, 22:01:37)

* any other business

Meeting ended at 22:05:29 UTC.

=== Votes ===
* Pidgin plugin wanted?
   For: 4 Against: 2 Abstained: 7
* Inferno Bot(+1) or just plugin(-1)?
   For: 0 Against: 7 Abstained: 4

=== Action items ===
* JackyAlcine: is tasked with leading a team to document said plugin and come up with a security plan that will be on next meetings agenda
* open up answers section and being monitored by CensoredBiscuit
* put answers section on next months agenda
* next meeting progress update on the answers section
* leoquant is to lead and setup a testing team in which we will get a status update from next meeting
* Puting VirbaSound Equipment on next months agenda to hear what the team has come up with in terms of hardware manufacturers
* JackyAlcine will look into PulseAudio for Speech Recognition and give an update on findings next meeting
* UndiFineD to look into schoolboards
* Cheri703 resarch calendar/reminder applications and report back at next meeting
* JackyAlcine to make a list of students and programmers, and assign a small task to each of them
* next meeting march 5th 19.00 utc

=== Action items, by person ===
* CensoredBiscuit
* * open up answers section and being monitored by CensoredBiscuit
* Cheri703
* * Cheri703 resarch calendar/reminder applications and report back at next meeting
* JackyAlcine
* * JackyAlcine: is tasked with leading a team to document said plugin and come up with a security plan that will be on next meetings agenda
* * JackyAlcine will look into PulseAudio for Speech Recognition and give an update on findings next meeting
* * JackyAlcine to make a list of students and programmers, and assign a small task to each of them
* leoquant
* * leoquant is to lead and setup a testing team in which we will get a status update from next meeting
* UndiFineD
* * UndiFineD to look into schoolboards
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * put answers section on next months agenda
* * next meeting progress update on the answers section
* * Puting VirbaSound Equipment on next months agenda to hear what the team has come up with in terms of hardware manufacturers
* * next meeting march 5th 19.00 utc

=== People present (lines said) ===
* hajour (190)
* CensoredBiscuit (138)
* JackyAlcine (133)
* UndiFineD (126)
* meetingology (71)
* Daniel0108 (67)
* phillw (62)
* jmarsden (61)
* NRWlion (38)
* leoquant (35)
* Artir (14)
* Omega (10)
* nixeagle (9)
* Cheri703 (8)
* igii (7)
* popey (6)
* Ilidur (5)
* wolfpack (3)
* akshatj (3)
* AlanBell (2)
* DanteAshton (2)
* DragonEyes (1)

=== Full Log ===
<pre>
 19:00:00 <Daniel0108> #startmeeting
 19:00:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Sat Feb 19 19:00:00 2011 UTC.  The chair is Daniel0108. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.
 19:00:00 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.
 19:00:21 <hajour> i like it to see there many have come on the meeting
 19:00:29 <Daniel0108> #topic Inferno IRC Bot
 19:00:29 <meetingology> TOPIC: Inferno IRC Bot
 19:00:39 <JackyAlcine> Daniel0108, hold on.
 19:00:45 <JackyAlcine> Get a head count first.
 19:00:47 <Daniel0108> okay
 19:00:54 <Daniel0108> #chair JackyAlcine
 19:00:54 <meetingology> Current chairs: Daniel0108 JackyAlcine
 19:01:58 <igii> yes
 19:02:11 <leoquant> present
 19:02:11 <phillw> present
 19:02:17 <CensoredBiscuit> present
 19:02:30 <NRWlion> guest
 19:02:31 <JackyAlcine> Christmas present
 19:02:39 <Artir> *lurking mode*
 19:02:43 <hajour> present
 19:02:45 <igii> present
 19:02:46 <Artir> oh well, I joined this, so present
 19:03:02 <UndiFineD> present
 19:03:09 <Daniel0108> gift :D
 19:03:30 <JackyAlcine> Daniel0108: that's enough people, don't you think?
 19:03:32 * nixeagle waves
 19:03:35 <Ilidur> present :)
 19:03:38 <Daniel0108> yeah, it is :D
 19:03:42 <Daniel0108> let's start
 19:03:54 <Daniel0108> #topic InfernoBot
 19:03:54 <meetingology> TOPIC: InfernoBot
 19:03:57 <UndiFineD> hey NRWlion , great to see you here
 19:04:06 <Daniel0108> InfernoBot is going to be discontinued.
 19:04:12 <NRWlion> i was fored to be here by phil :D
 19:04:14 <UndiFineD> #chair hajour
 19:04:14 <jmarsden> o/
 19:04:17 <Daniel0108> We are not allowed to have a bot in # rooms
 19:04:30 <JackyAlcine> #chair UndiFineD hajour
 19:04:30 <meetingology> Current chairs: Daniel0108 JackyAlcine UndiFineD hajour
 19:04:30 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: ?
 19:04:38 <UndiFineD> thanks
 19:04:40 <Daniel0108> so we are going to continue with a xChat plugin
 19:04:40 * DanteAshton wonders what is going on
 19:04:47 <UndiFineD> meeting Daniel0108
 19:04:50 <UndiFineD> DanteAshton:
 19:04:53 <UndiFineD> :P
 19:05:12 <DanteAshton> Ahh, yes, but why summon a demi-god? :P
 19:05:22 <Daniel0108> probably we're adding a PM bot, or a bot like DragonEyes later.
 19:05:25 <phillw> would it be easier for me to give a statement?
 19:05:41 <UndiFineD> #topic previous meeting recap
 19:05:41 <meetingology> TOPIC: previous meeting recap
 19:05:52 <Daniel0108> UndiFineD: I already set the meeting topic ;)
 19:05:55 <UndiFineD> oh
 19:06:05 <UndiFineD> change it back then
</pre>

==== Inferno IRC Bot ====
<pre>
 19:06:05 <Daniel0108> #topic Inferno IRC Bot
 19:06:05 <meetingology> TOPIC: Inferno IRC Bot
 19:06:38 <Daniel0108> do we really need a PM bot, or just an xChat plugin for parsing and sending audio messages
 19:06:43 <Daniel0108> let's start a poll
 19:07:00 <Daniel0108> #vote Inferno Bot(+1) or just plugin(-1)?
 19:07:00 <meetingology> Please vote on: Inferno Bot(+1) or just plugin(-1)?
 19:07:00 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 19:07:09 <Daniel0108> +0
 19:07:10 <UndiFineD> -1
 19:07:10 <meetingology> -1 received from UndiFineD
 19:07:12 <CensoredBiscuit> -1
 19:07:12 <meetingology> -1 received from CensoredBiscuit
 19:07:14 <Artir> -1
 19:07:14 <meetingology> -1 received from Artir
 19:07:14 <leoquant> -1
 19:07:14 <meetingology> -1 received from leoquant
 19:07:15 <jmarsden> -1
 19:07:15 <meetingology> -1 received from jmarsden
 19:07:16 <hajour> -1
 19:07:16 <meetingology> -1 received from hajour
 19:07:18 <phillw> following conversations, and a great deal of help from jmarsden, there is a long dormant plugin
 19:07:25 <igii> -1
 19:07:25 <meetingology> -1 received from igii
 19:07:28 <Ilidur> +0
 19:07:38 <Ilidur> 0
 19:07:38 <meetingology> 0 received from Ilidur
 19:07:43 <Daniel0108> 0
 19:07:43 <meetingology> 0 received from Daniel0108
 19:07:49 <wolfpack> 0
 19:07:49 <meetingology> 0 received from wolfpack
 19:07:59 <phillw> Jezz, can I chat before you vote??
 19:07:59 <NRWlion> 0
 19:07:59 <meetingology> 0 received from NRWlion
 19:08:19 <UndiFineD> anyone else ?
 19:08:20 <Daniel0108> phillw: please ask after the poll ;)
 19:08:28 <Daniel0108> I think we can end the poll
 19:08:34 <UndiFineD> #endvote
 19:08:34 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Inferno Bot(+1) or just plugin(-1)?
 19:08:34 <meetingology> Votes for:0 Votes against:7 Abstentions:4
 19:08:34 <meetingology> Motion denied
 19:08:35 <jmarsden> phillw: Apparently not :)  Daniel0108 has chair status so if he calls a vote, it happens.
 19:08:43 <hajour> let phillw talk
 19:08:45 <Daniel0108> yes
 19:08:45 <phillw> No - I inform BEFORE the poll
 19:08:53 <Daniel0108> sorry phillw
 19:09:12 <UndiFineD> ok, phill, take the floor
 19:09:17 * phillw goes and takes a break if you do not wish to know what has been going on
 19:09:38 <Daniel0108> phillw, please tell us WHY we're not allowed to have a bot in # channels ;)
 19:10:09 <Daniel0108> btw: This vote was about a PM bot, not a channel bot ;)
 19:10:18 <hajour> i suggest to let phillw  take the floor and if necessary take the vote again
 19:10:38 <leoquant> go aheas phillw
 19:10:38 <leoquant> d
 19:10:48 <Daniel0108> hajour, I don't think we have to vote again, because the vote was about a PM bot, not a channel bot
 19:11:17 <JackyAlcine> Let phillw speak.
 19:11:17 <hajour> Daniel0108, let phillw talk first
 19:11:19 <JackyAlcine> Please.
 19:11:30 <Daniel0108> yes okay, phillw.
 19:11:34 <Omega> \o/
 19:11:38 <hajour> i reading phillw go ahead plz
 19:11:42 <hajour> i am
 19:12:16 <Daniel0108> hmm...
 19:12:24 <Daniel0108> phillw, are you around?
 19:12:31 <JackyAlcine> .....
 19:12:45 <Artir> phillw, Artir summons you
 19:12:58 <hajour> we do else first the other things and come back later on this subject
 19:12:59 <phillw> I made some enquiries, the verdict decided upon was to to update the plugin for x-chat and then port out to other IRC clients such as pidgin etc. Spending time on a PM bot is a waste of our limited resources that could be better used elsewhere
 19:13:06 <hajour> sorry
 19:13:13 <hajour> talked to fast
 19:13:36 <Daniel0108> yes, phillw, I agree.
 19:14:08 <UndiFineD> and I so like the idea, of the plugin which you can take with oyu into any room
 19:14:11 <Daniel0108> phillw, you finished?
 19:14:33 <hajour> we already talked phillw so you know we are on the same line for this thing
 19:14:54 <akshatj> aargh I fell asleep
 19:15:01 <Daniel0108> I want to start another poll: Is a Pidgin plugin needed? Or just a xChat plugin?
 19:15:04 <UndiFineD> morning akshatj
 19:15:09 <Daniel0108> #vote Pidgin plugin wanted?
 19:15:09 <meetingology> Please vote on: Pidgin plugin wanted?
 19:15:09 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
 19:15:16 <Ilidur> 1
 19:15:18 <akshatj> UndiFineD: Its 1 Am -.-
 19:15:18 <Daniel0108> morning akshatj, we're in a meeting
 19:15:20 <phillw> having to add a bot to each room a person is on is just not going to happen
 19:15:22 <Daniel0108> 0
 19:15:22 <meetingology> 0 received from Daniel0108
 19:15:27 <hajour> wait
 19:15:30 <CensoredBiscuit> +1
 19:15:30 <meetingology> +1 received from CensoredBiscuit
 19:15:32 <Ilidur> +1
 19:15:32 <meetingology> +1 received from Ilidur
 19:15:36 <akshatj> 0
 19:15:36 <meetingology> 0 received from akshatj
 19:15:37 <JackyAlcine> +1
 19:15:37 <meetingology> +1 received from JackyAlcine
 19:15:37 <phillw> +1
 19:15:37 <meetingology> +1 received from phillw
 19:15:39 <Daniel0108> hajour, please talk after the vote ;)
 19:15:39 <UndiFineD> 0
 19:15:39 <meetingology> 0 received from UndiFineD
 19:15:43 <NRWlion> -1
 19:15:43 <meetingology> -1 received from NRWlion
 19:15:45 <hajour> +1
 19:15:45 <meetingology> +1 received from hajour
 19:15:46 <jmarsden> +0
 19:15:49 <leoquant> phillw, were you ready?
 19:16:09 <UndiFineD> Daniel0108: not so fast with the fvoting
 19:16:14 * jmarsden thinks Daniel0108 is a little vote-happy :)
 19:16:16 <Daniel0108> okay, sorry ;)
 19:16:20 <wolfpack> 0
 19:16:20 <meetingology> 0 received from wolfpack
 19:16:22 <Daniel0108> jmarsden: I like votes :P
 19:16:23 <UndiFineD> let people ask about things if possible
 19:16:38 <UndiFineD> which is why I voted 0
 19:16:43 <hajour> Daniel0108, let people speak out first.we are not all very  fast with writhing
 19:16:45 <Daniel0108> UndiFineD: I always do: Topic, Poll, Questions
 19:17:06 <Artir> +0
 19:17:06 <UndiFineD> how can ask a question about the poll ?
 19:17:09 <Artir> 0
 19:17:09 <meetingology> 0 received from Artir
 19:17:22 <Daniel0108> UndiFineD: A question about the topic, but after the poll.
 19:17:29 <UndiFineD> no
 19:17:29 <hajour> no Daniel0108
 19:17:39 <hajour> first ask questions then vote
 19:17:41 <Daniel0108> okay, good, so I'll do Topic, Questions, Poll ;)
 19:17:43 <UndiFineD> i have to know what i am voting for
 19:17:46 <Daniel0108> thanks for the info :D
 19:17:47 <JackyAlcine> Are we voting over on what we just voted on?
 19:18:01 <leoquant> introduce a topic please: Topic: QUESTIONS: Vote
 19:18:04 <Daniel0108> JackyAlcine: Please vote on: Pidgin plugin wanted?
 19:18:11 <Daniel0108> leoquant, okay thanks
 19:18:14 <JackyAlcine> +1
 19:18:14 <meetingology> +1 received from JackyAlcine
 19:18:14 <phillw> Daniel0108: WE HAVE BEEN MOVED UP STREAM, the choices and decisions that are taken could well affect the whole Linux project.
 19:18:16 <igii> heeey whats pidgin
 19:18:28 <JackyAlcine> igii: http://www.pidgin.im
 19:18:30 <Daniel0108> phillw, I know
 19:18:57 <igii> cool
 19:19:04 <igii> 0
 19:19:04 <meetingology> 0 received from igii
 19:19:24 <Omega> 0
 19:19:24 <meetingology> 0 received from Omega
 19:19:40 <Omega> Actually
 19:19:41 <Omega> -1
 19:19:41 <meetingology> -1 received from Omega
 19:19:51 <UndiFineD> Daniel0108: you also seem to follow your own agenda
 19:19:52 <JackyAlcine> lol, I don't think you can change votes.
 19:20:00 <Omega> It counted it I think.
 19:20:03 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: You can, until the voting period is over
 19:20:03 <Daniel0108> UndiFineD: http://openetherpad.org/hA2ohjhEtb
 19:20:18 <Omega> pidgin isn't included in Ubuntu by default
 19:20:31 <leoquant> no irssi is
 19:20:34 <CensoredBiscuit> +0
 19:20:46 <CensoredBiscuit> 0
 19:20:46 <meetingology> 0 received from CensoredBiscuit
 19:20:53 <Omega> irssi isn't either
 19:21:01 <Omega> I have to install it every time :<
 19:21:04 <UndiFineD> #endvote
 19:21:04 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Pidgin plugin wanted?
 19:21:04 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:2 Abstentions:7
 19:21:04 <meetingology> Motion carried
 19:21:04 <leoquant> irssi for sure
 19:21:12 <Omega> leoquant: not installed
 19:21:16 <Omega> just in the repo
 19:21:16 <leoquant> ok
 19:21:27 <Daniel0108> any questions left?
 19:21:35 * jmarsden thinks all this voting is distracting the meeting and preventing or discouraging substantive discussion.
 19:21:54 <jmarsden> Is there a design doc listing needed features for the plugin/plugins ?  Should there be?
 19:21:59 <hajour> your right jmarsden
 19:22:08 <leoquant> i think jmarsden has a point here
 19:22:36 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: +1
 19:22:46 <Daniel0108> jmarsden: +1
 19:22:48 <JackyAlcine> And Daniel0108, ?
 19:23:07 <JackyAlcine> The blueprints, did you work on them?
 19:23:14 <Daniel0108> of Inferno?
 19:23:36 <UndiFineD> any Blueprints
 19:24:09 <Daniel0108> I worked on the extension for chrome. There are many python programmers working on  the Inferno plugin ;)
 19:24:22 * jmarsden would like to see use cases for the plugins, probably based on the accessibility personas...
 19:24:23 <UndiFineD> I would like to see bitesized projects, so , more people can contribute their little thing
 19:24:54 <jmarsden> Daniel0108: Where is the design document guiding all the work of these python programmers as they "work on the Inferno plugin" ?
 19:25:00 <hajour> jmarsden, the personas are not all complete yet
 19:25:15 <jmarsden> hajour: But they are better than nothing.  we need to use what we have.
 19:25:25 <Daniel0108> jmarsden: look on launchpad, there are blueprints
 19:25:26 <leoquant> but the guiding document hajour ?
 19:25:51 <hajour> thats why i had make a list on my subpage accessibility by my wiki
 19:26:02 <UndiFineD> leoquant: guiding docs are on the wiki
 19:26:07 <JackyAlcine> Daniel0108: The blueprints on Launchpad are shells for the blueprints to be written on the Wiki.
 19:26:10 <JackyAlcine> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Blueprints/cmusphinx-train
 19:26:12 <leoquant> ok thx
 19:26:18 <hajour> most of the personas comes from my information
 19:26:31 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: cmuysphix-train is not an IRC plugin... so I am confused.
 19:26:54 <jmarsden> Current meeting topic is the plugin.  as far as i know, anyway.
 19:27:07 <hajour> jmarsden, ^
 19:27:10 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: the irc plugin was started as an idea to accessible irc meetings
 19:27:11 <JackyAlcine> >_< indeed.
 19:27:53 <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: are you about?
 19:28:02 <CensoredBiscuit> yes
 19:28:07 <jmarsden> So (trying to restate my question clearly): where is the blueprint or design document for the proposed IRC plugin?
 19:28:27 <Daniel0108> jmarsden: there is only a blueprint on launchpad
 19:28:31 <hajour> leoquant, is your question already answered?
 19:28:36 <leoquant> yes
 19:28:44 <UndiFineD> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Blueprints
 19:28:55 <hajour> ok :)
 19:28:55 <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: would be kind enough to take the chair from Daniel0108, he's struggling a bit
 19:29:16 <CensoredBiscuit> I havent looked at the agenda
 19:29:23 <CensoredBiscuit> Can someone link me
 19:29:27 <Daniel0108> #chair CensoredBiscuit
 19:29:27 <meetingology> Current chairs: CensoredBiscuit Daniel0108 JackyAlcine UndiFineD hajour
 19:29:29 <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: http://openetherpad.org/hA2ohjhEtb
 19:29:36 <UndiFineD> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Meetings
 19:29:38 <Daniel0108> CensoredBiscuit: http://openetherpad.org/hA2ohjhEtb
 19:29:41 <Daniel0108> lol
 19:29:48 <hajour> other time if Daniel0108 have learned more he will get a other change to chair a meeting
 19:30:05 <Daniel0108> yeah, I need more experience ;)
 19:30:13 <hajour> chance /change ?
 19:30:42 <phillw> hajour: chairing meetings, especially dev meetings are scary.
 19:31:07 <CensoredBiscuit> Okay  so we're talking about the last meeting right
 19:31:13 <CensoredBiscuit> or have we completed that?
 19:31:33 <JackyAlcine> CensoredBiscuit: We're about to complete it.
 19:31:36 <hajour> i know phillw
 19:31:39 <CensoredBiscuit> Okay
 19:31:42 <CensoredBiscuit> Well
 19:31:56 * JackyAlcine notes that CensoredBiscuit is running the show. lol
 19:32:02 <CensoredBiscuit> I haven't heard any chat about a mozilla/chrome plugin
 19:32:11 <CensoredBiscuit> so I think we should begin there
 19:32:34 <UndiFineD> #topc
</pre>

==== Mozilla/chrome plugin ====
<pre>
 19:32:36 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic Mozilla/chrome plugin
 19:32:36 <meetingology> TOPIC: Mozilla/chrome plugin
 19:32:48 <jmarsden> UndiFineD: Thanks for the link.  Which item there is about the proposed plugin(s)?  the word plugin does not appear on that page.
 19:32:50 <CensoredBiscuit> Who here brought this on the agenda
 19:32:52 <Daniel0108> I'm currently working on this plugin with JackyAlcine.
 19:33:12 <JackyAlcine> o/ I'm working on the openMary integration.
 19:33:15 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: set as work to do :)
 19:33:17 <JackyAlcine> But I've run into a snag.
 19:33:41 <JackyAlcine> Apparently, in order to get *full* speech dispatcher support, Chromium has to allow NPAPI
 19:34:01 <JackyAlcine> this unsecure version of interaction with Chromium and its native environment.
 19:34:16 <JackyAlcine> If not properly coded, someone can use our plugin to compromise security.
 19:34:34 <UndiFineD> bravo JackyAlcine
 19:34:43 <hajour> good JackyAlcine
 19:34:58 <CensoredBiscuit> What are our options JackyAlcine
 19:35:07 <JackyAlcine> 1) Stick to openMary.
 19:35:07 <CensoredBiscuit> at this point anyways
 19:35:17 <UndiFineD> now, to solve this I think you need an input check
 19:35:50 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: have you looked at similar plugins ?
 19:35:51 <JackyAlcine> 2)  Build an daemon (ie: speechcontrol-daemon) to run locally and handle HTTP requests like openMary to manage Speech Disptacher.
 19:36:18 <JackyAlcine> UndiFineD: If someone swapped the library (ie: openmary.so) with their a hacked version, they could do anything.
 19:36:43 <CensoredBiscuit> So this is an important issue indeed
 19:36:59 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: then we could split that into 2 parts
 19:37:22 <UndiFineD> one being a plugin, and another plugin input check
 19:37:25 <JackyAlcine> Yup. And I haven't seen any other plugin like this, but I know there's this plugin that convert Chrome's desktop notifications to Notify OSD notifications but it uses NPAPI.
 19:37:51 <CensoredBiscuit> The chair is going to yield for five minutes of discussion on the issue
 19:38:00 <UndiFineD> https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/text-to-voice/
 19:38:06 <CensoredBiscuit> Unless it is not all needed
 19:38:15 <JackyAlcine> UndiFineD: Ah, like I called plugin.sayText("ddd"); there's no way for me to know that the loaded module is the same module we created.
 19:38:20 <JackyAlcine> I looked in Chrome's repos. =x
 19:39:02 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: public / private key
 19:39:41 <UndiFineD> I am done
 19:39:48 <CensoredBiscuit> Very well.
 19:39:55 <jmarsden> This all seems somewhat nuts to me.  We apparently have people coding and trying to discuss security issues for one form of the phugin, before we have *any* kind of specification for them to code to?  Is someone specific tasked with creating that design document?  Why is noone creating a #action to someone (or some subgroup) to create the plugin design doc?  THEN coders can start coding!
 19:40:51 * AlanBell suggests listening to jmarsden might be a good idea
 19:41:13 <Daniel0108> jmarsden: good idea
 19:41:22 <phillw> +1
 19:41:23 <CensoredBiscuit> Very well.
 19:41:33 <Daniel0108> but I don't like this designing stuff, it takes so much time ;)
 19:41:43 <UndiFineD> if you guys paid attention to the ageanda, you see it is being updated
 19:41:58 <JackyAlcine> I noticed.
 19:42:41 <CensoredBiscuit> Who here would like to lead a subgroup for documenting a plan and security options of a plugin
 19:43:02 * phillw kidnaps jmarsden
 19:43:22 <jmarsden> Ah, no.  I might be a part of the group, but respectfully decline to lead it.
 19:43:49 <JackyAlcine> I'll do it.
 19:43:55 <CensoredBiscuit> very well
 19:44:01 <NRWlion> what is meant by "leading"?
 19:44:17 <NRWlion> sorry 4 that rookie question :( *shame*
 19:44:35 <CensoredBiscuit> JackyAlcine: is tasked with leading a team to document said plugin and come up with a security plan that will be on next meetings agenda
 19:44:37 <phillw> thanks JackyAlcine, I'm just conerned about you taking too much stuff on.
 19:44:48 <UndiFineD> NRWlion: it ok I am glad people ask
 19:44:57 <jmarsden> CensoredBiscuit: use #action to make that formal, I suggest?
 19:45:00 <hajour> it is never wrong or stupid to ask questions NRWlion
 19:45:01 <JackyAlcine> phillw: Lol, technically, I've already started.
 19:45:16 <CensoredBiscuit> #action JackyAlcine: is tasked with leading a team to document said plugin and come up with a security plan that will be on next meetings agenda
 19:45:16 * meetingology JackyAlcine: is tasked with leading a team to document said plugin and come up with a security plan that will be on next meetings agenda
 19:45:30 <UndiFineD> true JackyAlcine, but I think more people should be involved in writing design
 19:45:38 <CensoredBiscuit> no futher discussion on the issue
 19:45:42 <CensoredBiscuit> for this meeting
 19:46:04 <JackyAlcine> =!
 19:46:06 <hajour> CensoredBiscuit,  let phillw and UndiFineD  and JackyAlcine  talk
 19:46:39 <UndiFineD> I am ok with the action item
 19:46:39 <hajour> and if others want to of cours
 19:46:44 <phillw> hajour: we will talk later
 19:46:44 <Daniel0108> CensoredBiscuit, I think you should ask Jacky before giving him this task ;)
 19:46:52 <hajour> ok phillw
 19:46:53 <CensoredBiscuit> He volunteered
 19:46:59 <CensoredBiscuit> <JackyAlcine> I'll do it.
 19:47:02 <JackyAlcine> lol
 19:47:11 <Daniel0108> lol
 19:47:13 <CensoredBiscuit> So therefore
</pre>

==== answer section on launchpad ====
<pre>
 19:47:27 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic answer section on launchpad
 19:47:27 <meetingology> TOPIC: answer section on launchpad
 19:47:35 <CensoredBiscuit> who brought this item on the agenda
 19:47:44 <JackyAlcine> o/
 19:47:52 <hajour> someone and i have filled in more
 19:48:34 <UndiFineD> Who is going to monitor it ?
 19:48:40 <hajour> is a good idea but the question is when to begin with it.
 19:48:52 <hajour> and see UndiFineD
 19:48:54 <CensoredBiscuit> It probably should be a tech and an admin person
 19:48:57 <CensoredBiscuit> (two people
 19:49:08 <Daniel0108> I have a question, which project?
 19:49:13 * phillw runs
 19:49:39 <JackyAlcine> Daniel0108: Shouldn't matter, all of the answers of our projects will have a common contact person.
 19:49:40 <CensoredBiscuit> I think its the speechcontrol in general
 19:49:42 * hajour pulls phillw  back
 19:49:48 <CensoredBiscuit> I'll do it
 19:49:49 <UndiFineD> Daniel0108: I guess that would be all related projects
 19:49:52 <Daniel0108> okay
 19:49:57 <Daniel0108> thanks
 19:50:02 <CensoredBiscuit> and get help from techies as i need
 19:50:17 <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: actually, as an admin person up for election, I'd suggest you for that
 19:50:35 <CensoredBiscuit> lets vote on it
 19:50:41 <hajour> not vote
 19:50:46 <UndiFineD> #action open up answers section and being monitored by CensoredBiscuit
 19:50:46 * meetingology open up answers section and being monitored by CensoredBiscuit
 19:50:53 <CensoredBiscuit> Or that
 19:50:59 * JackyAlcine pwned
 19:51:02 <hajour> thank you UndiFineD
 19:51:22 <UndiFineD> #topic
 19:51:22 <meetingology> TOPIC:
 19:51:23 <CensoredBiscuit> thats all she wrote.. next topic
 19:51:30 <hajour> JackyAlcine,  for the sec person
 19:51:34 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic Speech Recognition
 19:51:34 <meetingology> TOPIC: Speech Recognition
 19:51:43 <hajour> n o
 19:51:58 <hajour> not answered my question when to begin with
 19:52:08 <CensoredBiscuit> Very well
 19:52:21 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic Answers section
 19:52:21 <meetingology> TOPIC: Answers section
 19:52:46 <CensoredBiscuit> I'll yield for three minutes of relevant dicisiion
 19:52:48 <hajour> when would it be good to start it
 19:52:57 <CensoredBiscuit> Now, id say
 19:53:20 <jmarsden> CensoredBiscuit: Give yourself a little time :)  Are you OK with opening up an answers section within the next 7 days?
 19:53:31 <JackyAlcine> I know I'm not.
 19:53:31 <CensoredBiscuit> Yea
 19:53:42 <CensoredBiscuit> wait
 19:53:43 <CensoredBiscuit> no
 19:53:49 <CensoredBiscuit> nevermind
 19:53:59 <phillw> UndiFineD: fine by me, he's been an excellent padawan and is up for election as an admin guy next UBT meeting
 19:54:01 <hajour> you want to start right away JackyAlcine ?
 19:54:07 <CensoredBiscuit> I think this should resurface in next month agenda
 19:54:09 <UndiFineD> phillw: great
 19:54:17 <CensoredBiscuit> for a progress update
 19:54:37 <JackyAlcine> hajour: Nope, I'd wait until we have work that can be questioned.
 19:54:53 <CensoredBiscuit> That is a valid point JackyAlcine
 19:54:58 <hajour> ok then put it on the next agenda meeting
 19:55:20 <CensoredBiscuit> #action put answers section on next months agenda
 19:55:20 * meetingology put answers section on next months agenda
 19:55:21 <UndiFineD> #action next meeting progress update on the answers section
 19:55:21 * meetingology next meeting progress update on the answers section
 19:55:22 <leoquant> CensoredBiscuit, i have to leave.  but before that i want to say something bout the/a possible  testing team for the project before i go.....
 19:55:23 <UndiFineD> lol
 19:55:25 <igii> i bin aus soizburg
 19:55:51 <JackyAlcine> leoquant: Shoot.
</pre>

==== testing team ====
<pre>
 19:55:53 <UndiFineD> #topic testing team
 19:55:53 <meetingology> TOPIC: testing team
 19:55:59 <leoquant> thx
 19:56:04 <Artir> ohh testing
 19:56:13 <leoquant> I will try to “set-up” a testing team for the speechcontrol xhat plugin, and other stuff.
 19:56:27 <leoquant> This team has to be organized, that can be done via a mailinglist: so
 19:56:28 <leoquant> we need a launchpad team,
 19:56:29 <CensoredBiscuit> UndiFineD do you wanna chair? because me and you are having conflicting efforts
 19:56:38 <Daniel0108> UndiFineD is already a chair ;)
 19:56:39 <leoquant> r we get ourself organized via IRC in a Freenode channel
 19:56:39 <UndiFineD> CensoredBiscuit: no no, go ahead
 19:56:56 <hajour> ok leoquant
 19:56:58 <leoquant> with regular meetings and a team wiki would be needed.( to make ourselfs visible)
 19:56:59 <leoquant> persons joining this team must:
 19:57:03 <Artir> I can collaborate with that testing team
 19:57:10 <JackyAlcine> let leoquant speak.
 19:57:11 <leoquant> sign code of conduct
 19:57:25 <leoquant> be must aware of the speechcontrol project
 19:57:37 <leoquant> must be aware of bug handling, linkage to the/our ubuntu “bug wiki”
 19:57:44 <CensoredBiscuit> the floor will yield for relevant discussion
 19:57:48 <leoquant> 4 must spent a lot of time in writing clear, logical (bug)reports for our devs.
 19:58:06 <leoquant> 5 must be able to work together, because this team will contain more than 5 persons
 19:58:12 <hajour> leoquant,  can you put up that launchpad /team then?
 19:58:19 <leoquant> will try to contact people, joining the testing team, and i will report/introduce
 19:58:22 <leoquant> possible candidates in the next meeting. In other words give me some time, to structure and organize my thoughts and ideas. But do mind i take this serious.
 19:58:30 <Daniel0108> hajour, there is a bug squad team, we could use it! :)
 19:58:52 <phillw> //me ahh, wiki area is going to change as we are now upstream
 19:59:05 <leoquant> Daniel0108, i prefer short communication lines
 19:59:08 <hajour> leoquant,  means for testing with people who have issues to
 19:59:21 <leoquant> possible hajour
 19:59:25 <Daniel0108> oh okay
 19:59:43 <hajour> i want it test to with people with health issues
 19:59:58 <leoquant> but again the is a blueprint
 20:00:05 <hajour> they have to use it the most
 20:00:09 <CensoredBiscuit> I would be a token cripple if needed :)
 20:00:23 <phillw> i can also ask accessify people to help test
 20:00:24 <hajour> but i think leoquant  can do that very well
 20:00:26 <leoquant> do i get a go
 20:00:29 <hajour> to lead that
 20:00:52 <CensoredBiscuit> so
 20:00:59 <leoquant> hajour, time will tell.....
 20:01:01 <hajour> ok leoquant you want to take the task leoquant ?
 20:01:15 <hajour> others will help
 20:01:20 <leoquant> if the team is ok indeed hajour
 20:01:35 <CensoredBiscuit> #action leoquant is to lead and setup a testing team in which we will get a status update from next meeting
 20:01:35 * meetingology leoquant is to lead and setup a testing team in which we will get a status update from next meeting
 20:01:56 <hajour> good
 20:01:58 <CensoredBiscuit> any more relevant discussion
 20:02:10 <hajour> thank you leoquant  you have come
 20:02:33 <hajour> till later leoquant
 20:02:40 <leoquant> CensoredBiscuit, thx
</pre>

==== VibraSound Equipment ====
<pre>
 20:02:49 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic VibraSound Equipment
 20:02:49 <meetingology> TOPIC: VibraSound Equipment
 20:03:03 <hajour> i have filled that in
 20:03:09 <CensoredBiscuit> Who would like the floor for this item
 20:03:32 <hajour> look or it can be support by speechcontrol.
 20:03:32 <hajour> 
 20:03:32 <hajour> Explanation
 20:03:32 <hajour> An equipment that transforms sound to vibrations.
 20:03:32 <hajour> Think of mobile phones with vibration alarms.
 20:03:32 <hajour> This idea is called awesome and is now going to be looked into by university and deaf institutes.
 20:03:35 <hajour> To see if it can be made and if it can, how it will be made.
 20:03:37 <hajour> 
 20:03:39 <hajour> Equipment
 20:03:41 <hajour> I have talked with people who are going to use it if it will be made.
 20:03:43 <hajour> They don't like a headset also some have no arms enz.
 20:03:47 <hajour> Sugestion is to make a some band that can be weared around the neck area.
 20:03:49 <hajour> any other ideas are welcome.
 20:04:01 <phillw> ;flood
 20:04:03 <DragonEyes> Please use pastebin For posting multi-line texts into the channel, please use http://paste.ubuntu.com | To post screenshots use http://tinyurl.com/imagebin | pastebinit to paste directly from command line | Make sure you give us the URL for your paste - see also the channel topic.
 20:04:27 <CensoredBiscuit> phillw: I feel this flood is benifitial
 20:04:39 <hajour> better then say nothing or being to late to say it again
 20:04:41 <CensoredBiscuit> and ask that we allow it
 20:05:00 <JackyAlcine> Did we skip Speech Recognition?
 20:05:03 <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: I was having a joke wiith my boss :D
 20:05:19 <hajour> no JackyAlcine
 20:05:22 <CensoredBiscuit> Yea I had to rearrange the agenda
 20:05:26 <hajour> we will talk about it
 20:05:29 <CensoredBiscuit> we'll come back to it
 20:05:36 <JackyAlcine> ah.
 20:05:50 <CensoredBiscuit> now any discussion on this ViraSound Equipment
 20:06:19 <CensoredBiscuit> Personally I would like to see a little more thought on it
 20:06:30 <hajour> i like to hear the thoughts about it from others
 20:06:43 <jmarsden> Until such hardware exists, there is nothing this team can really do regarding Vibrasound, is there?  We are not a hardware design team.
 20:07:00 <CensoredBiscuit> and I would also like to note I think SpeechControl might be starting to spread itself thin
 20:07:00 <hajour> jmarsden,  i ust wanted to inform
 20:07:14 <hajour> just
 20:07:28 <CensoredBiscuit> And I wouldnt know where to begin on this one
 20:07:31 <hajour> it not yet exist yet
 20:07:36 <Artir> +1 CensoredBiscuit
 20:07:50 <CensoredBiscuit> accept praying some hardware company makes it
 20:07:54 <CensoredBiscuit> except
 20:08:04 <CensoredBiscuit> but I would like to note it is a good idea
 20:08:14 <UndiFineD> CensoredBiscuit: MrChrisDruif could not make it tonight
 20:08:26 <hajour> i have something in mind i can draw it but not with a pc program i thinking to draw it on paper and then make a picture of it
 20:08:29 <UndiFineD> so he asked me to speak for him
 20:08:42 <CensoredBiscuit> The floor will yeild to UndiFineD
 20:09:34 <UndiFineD> he has a clear vision on what it could be like and is gathering information on what is needed, hardware wise
 20:10:28 <UndiFineD> meanwhile charles profitt, is taking this the the university and a institute for the deaf
 20:12:09 <UndiFineD> if this succeeds, an input plugin may be needed
 20:12:19 <UndiFineD> as well as an output
 20:12:28 <CensoredBiscuit> UndiFineD: let me stop here if I may and just say, it sounds to me like the only #action we can do at this time is to get more information on the subject, while it is well-thought out. We need to get someone with hardware on board
 20:12:39 <hajour> that's why i have put it on the agenda
 20:12:41 <UndiFineD> exactly
 20:13:02 <CensoredBiscuit> So therefore slap it on the agenda next month
 20:13:07 <hajour> ok
 20:13:19 <CensoredBiscuit> and We'll vote on wether to pick it up right?
 20:13:35 <hajour> i am not a dev so i try to say it so clear as possible i am able to
 20:13:47 <hajour> no put it on the next agenda
 20:14:36 <CensoredBiscuit> #action Puting VirbaSound Equipment on next months agenda to hear what the team has come up with in terms of hardware manufacturers
 20:14:36 * meetingology Puting VirbaSound Equipment on next months agenda to hear what the team has come up with in terms of hardware manufacturers
 20:14:55 <jmarsden> UndiFineD: Comment: I am not sure how input from Vibrasound in IRC would be any different from input to other apps... so what would be needed is hardware drivers rather than an IRC input plugin, I would expect.
 20:14:56 <Artir> *Vibra
 20:15:38 <hajour> jmarsden,  you can say that to mrchrisdruif to
 20:15:38 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: this is more than irc alone
 20:15:57 <jmarsden> UndiFineD: You said "plugin", I thinught you meant IRC plugin... OK.
 20:16:00 <CensoredBiscuit> The floor needs more move on. Lets have further discussion next month when we know of hardware shall we?
 20:16:25 <UndiFineD> this was more of a plugin mentioning towards speech dispatcher
 20:16:48 <hajour> i suggest jmarsden  and UndiFineD  and mrchrisdruif can brainstorm about it later
</pre>

==== Speech Recognition ====
<pre>
 20:17:00 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic Speech Recognition
 20:17:00 <meetingology> TOPIC: Speech Recognition
 20:17:13 * JackyAlcine rubs hands.
 20:17:26 <CensoredBiscuit> Lets hear about progress from JackyAlcine
 20:17:47 <CensoredBiscuit> (aka the floor yields to JackyAlcine)
 20:17:49 <JackyAlcine> As you may already know, uVRT is aiming to be the GNU version of the HTK toolkit.
 20:18:11 <JackyAlcine> uVRT = Ubuntu Voice Recognition Toolkit.
 20:18:41 <JackyAlcine> There's an expected release, uVRT 0.3a "Talkie Talkie", although delayed (just one day) to the 22nd.
 20:19:10 <JackyAlcine> This alpha will allow you to record yourself citing text and save these sessions, but nothing more at the moment.
 20:19:23 <JackyAlcine> And the two other features, adapting and uploading will be disabled.
 20:19:37 <JackyAlcine> So far, I've been in contact with someone with Julius.
 20:19:59 <JackyAlcine> In a search to see if uVRT can work for Julius, and indeed (although via a complex route) it can.
 20:20:32 <JackyAlcine> Progress can be noted on the blueprint (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Blueprints/vrt-goals)
 20:20:47 <CensoredBiscuit> I thought we couldnt use Julius
 20:21:04 <UndiFineD> I think that is the complex route
 20:21:12 <JackyAlcine> We can, it's just that Julius *recommends* using the HTK toolkit.
 20:21:27 <JackyAlcine> For apdating/making it more accurate.
 20:21:30 <JackyAlcine> And that's not free.
 20:21:47 <Artir> And what about sphinx?
 20:22:00 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: Will uVRT have the same (binary compatible?) API as HTK?  If so, are there any legal issues involved there?
 20:22:19 <hajour> i am not ffor not open source projects what have to be payed for
 20:22:35 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: uVRT works *completely* different from the HTK.
 20:22:48 <JackyAlcine> HTK generates HTK models, while uVRT generates ARPA models.
 20:22:55 <jmarsden> Then I am confused, you just said: " uVRT is aiming to be the GNU version of the HTK toolkit."
 20:23:05 <jmarsden> OK.
 20:23:22 <CensoredBiscuit> Okay
 20:23:23 <JackyAlcine> ARPA models can work for CMU Sphinx  and Julius.
 20:23:40 <JackyAlcine> Besides that, there's not much to say besides *watch out, it's coming*.
 20:23:45 <CensoredBiscuit> JackyAlcine are we in a good place in development?
 20:23:58 <JackyAlcine> In general development?
 20:24:02 * NRWlion is still alive but afk for several minutes to get a drink
 20:24:03 <JackyAlcine> Or for uVRT?
 20:24:30 <CensoredBiscuit> uVRT
 20:24:53 <JackyAlcine> so-so; just playback is being a hassle, I switch from PortAudio to ALSA.
 20:25:05 <JackyAlcine> a/switch/ed
 20:25:59 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: Will that require all machines running uVRT to reconfigure their sound subsystem to be ALSA instead of PulseAudio?
 20:26:43 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: Perhaps, but PulseAudio support can be brought out in a later version; currently I'm working to implement the proof-of-concept.
 20:27:08 <CensoredBiscuit> Okay
 20:27:09 <JackyAlcine> I was considering adding JACK and PulseAudio support later, and have it detect which is used on a system.
 20:27:09 <jmarsden> Sigh... is there a spec for uVRT?  Does it specify which sound subsystem is being targetted?
 20:27:41 <JackyAlcine> I'm not sure if I mention it on the blueprint.
 20:28:20 <jmarsden> OK.  Forcing users to switch sound subsystems will not exactly make for easy installation :)
 20:28:41 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: Indeed, hence this alpha is meant only to prove the proof-of-concept.
 20:28:54 <CensoredBiscuit> JackyAlcine: your looking into Pulse Audio Right?
 20:29:17 <JackyAlcine> Looking into, yes. Implementing at the moment, no.
 20:29:35 <CensoredBiscuit> I'm comfortable with that personally
 20:29:58 <CensoredBiscuit> would you mind looking giving an update on that next meeting
 20:30:15 <JackyAlcine> Indeed I will.
 20:30:21 <hajour> my thoughts are it have to be made easy to instalate
 20:30:42 <JackyAlcine> hajour: I'll do my best.
 20:30:51 <hajour> i know JackyAlcine :)
 20:30:51 <CensoredBiscuit> #action JackyAlcine will look into PulseAudio for Speech Recognition and give an update on findings next meeting
 20:30:51 * meetingology JackyAlcine will look into PulseAudio for Speech Recognition and give an update on findings next meeting
 20:31:02 <JackyAlcine> Although packaging isn't one of my strong parts, RainCT's willing to help.
 20:31:12 <phillw> of that I have no doubt
 20:31:44 <phillw> JackyAlcine: jmarsden is also available
 20:31:45 <CensoredBiscuit> The floor will continue
 20:31:51 <CensoredBiscuit> if able
</pre>

==== New Ideas ====
<pre>
 20:32:23 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic New Ideas
 20:32:23 <meetingology> TOPIC: New Ideas
 20:33:08 <CensoredBiscuit> Now we have something on the agenda about smartboards
 20:33:12 <hajour> New ideas
 20:33:12 <hajour> Whether the SpeechControl programs can support smartboards.
 20:33:12 <hajour> These are electronic school boards who are attached on pc's.
 20:33:12 <hajour> This will make it possible to let people who are blind being a teacher or leading meetings in rl.
 20:33:37 <hajour> and with other issues of cours
 20:33:40 <hajour> course
 20:33:42 <phillw> I'm not sure is a new idea, maybe news
 20:34:03 <UndiFineD> non-existent atm
 20:34:15 <hajour> phillw, ^
 20:34:27 <phillw> UndiFineD: what I wish o say
 20:35:21 <CensoredBiscuit> The floor will yield for relevant discussion for no more then 10 minutes
 20:35:32 <JackyAlcine> Hm, this seems a bit selective.
 20:35:44 <JackyAlcine> Like it's targeting a subset of a subset.
 20:36:07 <UndiFineD> Hajour has found a few schools willing to transform to edubuntu
 20:36:10 <CensoredBiscuit> that is true
 20:36:32 <hajour> 18 schools
 20:36:35 <Artir> O.o
 20:36:37 <UndiFineD> as such they need electronic schoolboard support
 20:36:38 <JackyAlcine> That's not a few xD
 20:36:52 <JackyAlcine> They *need* or *have* electronic schoolboards?
 20:37:03 <phillw> hajour: awesome!
 20:37:10 <UndiFineD> need support, have the boards
 20:37:14 <jmarsden> Moving schools to edubuntu is great but not necessarily part of this project's goals/workload, is it?
 20:37:14 <hajour> they have electronic school boards
 20:37:17 <jmarsden> First step should probably be to check which smart whiteboards Ubuntu already supports (what drivers exist, are they in the repositories, etc) ; then work to make those speech-driven can be considered.  Who will research this and report to the group on the current state of electronic whiteboard support in Ubuntu?
 20:37:37 <hajour> thank you jmarsden
 20:38:04 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: Smartboards usually just work with a projector.
 20:38:09 <UndiFineD> exactly what hajour wanted to know jmarsden
 20:38:23 <JackyAlcine> I have one in every classroom at my school.
 20:38:27 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: Output only?? that is not "smart" is it?
 20:38:32 <JackyAlcine> Noo.
 20:38:35 <JackyAlcine> listen, lol.
 20:38:42 <JackyAlcine> The board itself is a touch surface.
 20:38:53 <hajour> thre one they use are not with a projector
 20:39:04 <CensoredBiscuit> with an image from a computer projected on it
 20:39:14 <JackyAlcine> Well, my teacher swaps with it, I'll find a link after the meeting.
 20:39:15 <CensoredBiscuit> from a projector
 20:39:22 <JackyAlcine> The board has a projecter.
 20:39:24 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: Right, so it needs drivers etc. for the input side of things.
 20:39:35 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: Indeed, you're right.
 20:39:40 <hajour> its like a big mmm screen monitor thing but white
 20:39:42 <CensoredBiscuit> Who wants to lead this effort
 20:39:46 <CensoredBiscuit> to find drivers?
 20:39:47 <jmarsden> So (as far as I know) only some boards will be supported in Ubuntu, so we need to know which ones...
 20:40:11 <nixeagle> how do you find this information out? just query the debian/ubuntu repositories?
 20:40:12 <JackyAlcine> hajour: And there's a long stick at the top?
 20:40:29 <JackyAlcine> With like a round thing at the end?
 20:40:51 <nixeagle> and CensoredBiscuit drivers would be in kernel land or user land?
 20:40:55 <phillw> can everyone quieten for minute please, hajour is not fast at typing, but will explain
 20:40:55 <hajour> i go look in my mail so and then give the name from the school boards they use
 20:41:06 <jmarsden> nixeagle: You'd have to be good at querying... maybe find out common makes and models of the boards, read manufacturer web sites, browse education mailing list archives where there is discussion on hwo to make them work with Linux...
 20:41:10 <UndiFineD> I am not sure, but I think they use logitech laserpointer mouses
 20:41:18 <NRWlion> jmarsden, should that information not be found at the manufacturers homepage or elsewhere ?
 20:41:42 <jmarsden> NRWlion: Yes, that's one place to start looking.  But for that we need make/model info :)
 20:41:52 <hajour> <hajour> i go look in my mail so and then give the name from the school boards they use
 20:41:53 <JackyAlcine> Well, we can't hypothesize, we need makes, models and possible computer and hardware specs.
 20:42:04 <CensoredBiscuit> My schools to broke to afford a smart boards we have projectors and just project onto a regular whiteboard
 20:42:07 <nixeagle> Also if there are drivers in the kernel, I'd imagine I could find them by poking at the make menuconfig dialog you get when you compile a custom kernel.
 20:42:52 <nixeagle> I guess I'm asking... is this something that some work has already been done or do working drivers have to be found?
 20:42:59 <UndiFineD> I thinks a proper action is to gather more information such hardware and capabilities
 20:43:00 <nixeagle> s/found/written/
 20:43:24 <JackyAlcine> UndiFineD: +1
 20:43:31 <NRWlion> +1
 20:43:34 <CensoredBiscuit> We need someone to do it
 20:43:38 <UndiFineD> also, think about posibilities
 20:43:39 <CensoredBiscuit> no volunteers
 20:43:49 * JackyAlcine puts his hand down.
 20:43:56 <hajour> nixeagle,  do you want to do this ?
 20:43:57 <UndiFineD> what if you had surround input from the class
 20:44:00 <nixeagle> I can't offer until I have a better clue as to what is expected
 20:44:29 <jmarsden> nixeagle: https://github.com/pnegre/python-whiteboard#readme is one example of some work on this in the open source world... googling ...
 20:44:43 <UndiFineD> what do you need to know nixeagle ?
 20:45:01 <hajour> i have the name from the school boards what they use in this schools but i need to look for it in my mail
 20:45:42 <hajour> i have contact with the director from the school about this
 20:45:48 <nixeagle> UndiFineD: specifically what qualifies as the subject area. I can't say I know much about this other then what I could pull up by poking around kernel sources if that is where these drivers ultimately wind up.
 20:46:30 * CensoredBiscuit is starting to spaz
 20:46:31 <nixeagle> I seriously doubt I can do what you guys want as I really don't understand what is even wanted other then drivers for whiteboards that I could locate in the kernel.
 20:46:32 <jmarsden> nixeagle: The group would be interested in higher level existing Ubuntu/Linux apps that use these whiteboards, too, I would expect.
 20:46:46 <hajour> i would prefer my name is come in the line if i get a answer.
 20:46:48 * JackyAlcine thinks this can be discussed outside the meeting?
 20:47:03 <AlanBell> wiimote whiteboard is in the repos, it works fine
 20:47:06 <UndiFineD> ok I volunteer
 20:47:08 <CensoredBiscuit> I need to go guies
 20:47:17 <NRWlion> JackyAlcine, +1
 20:47:22 <CensoredBiscuit> I'm starting to have a medical problem
 20:47:30 <UndiFineD> thanks AlanBell
 20:47:32 * NRWlion is a medic :D
 20:47:36 <JackyAlcine> No problem CensoredBiscuit.
 20:47:40 <hajour> AlanBell> wiimote whiteboard is in the repos, it works fine
 20:48:05 <CensoredBiscuit> I would like to talk about something before I leave
 20:48:10 <CensoredBiscuit> so can we move on
 20:48:15 <hajour> the boards are used in meetings /office ,hospitals/schools
 20:48:26 * jmarsden suggests #action hajour to determine make and model of whiteboards of interest for next meeting, then move on.
 20:48:30 <UndiFineD> #action UndiFineD to look into schoolboards
 20:48:30 * meetingology UndiFineD to look into schoolboards
 20:48:42 <CensoredBiscuit> Thanks
</pre>

==== other ideas ====
<pre>
 20:48:52 <CensoredBiscuit> #topic other ideas
 20:48:52 <meetingology> TOPIC: other ideas
 20:49:21 <hajour> a speaking alarm popup for by example to remember taking medicine
 20:49:21 <hajour> speaking agenda who look or the time what is necassery for by example a meeting can put in.
 20:49:37 <CensoredBiscuit> I had an idea for a medical reminder program
 20:49:41 <hajour> its both's related
 20:49:53 <JackyAlcine> the first one can be done using a GNOME alarm.
 20:49:54 <CensoredBiscuit> I don't know if thats the continuation of that
 20:49:57 <hajour> i listen CensoredBiscuit
 20:50:07 <UndiFineD> these seem very much the same to me, and I think should be expanding on existing applications in this area
 20:50:12 <CensoredBiscuit> I wanted something more then that
 20:50:28 <CensoredBiscuit> I wanted something that would manage my medical life
 20:50:33 <CensoredBiscuit> on the computer
 20:51:29 <CensoredBiscuit> essentially I have pills to take, 100 billion doctors appointments, glucose to check and record and blood pressure to record
 20:51:42 <CensoredBiscuit> Yes a calendar would work
 20:52:02 <hajour> i know CensoredBiscuit :)
 20:52:24 <CensoredBiscuit> but it wouldn't understand the correlation between glucose levels and be able to give that data to a doctor
 20:52:27 * jmarsden thinks... there are MANY alarm/reminder apps in the repos.  Adding audio output capability to one should not be hard if this team is doing audio output work anyway.  Checjk out remind, tkremind, xcal for some older ones, there are probably newer prettier GNOME/KDE ones too :)
 20:53:00 <CensoredBiscuit> I'm wanting something thats not just going to remind me of things
 20:53:05 <hajour> again gnome
 20:53:06 <CensoredBiscuit> I want something were I can go
 20:53:21 <hajour> gnome makes it heavy weighted or not?
 20:53:22 <NRWlion> CensoredBiscuit, question...?
 20:53:39 <hajour> just wondering
 20:53:40 <NRWlion> ? =!
 20:53:43 <jmarsden> hajour: remind and tkremind and xcal do not need GNOME, so try those if that is a problem.
 20:54:03 <hajour> ok thanks jmarsden
 20:54:12 <CensoredBiscuit> "Hey, I have this doctor today" I should go to this program and get my daily glucose records
 20:54:18 <hajour> for the information
 20:54:27 <CensoredBiscuit> theres no easy program to do that so far
 20:55:13 <UndiFineD> so we need to find which application is willing to expand
 20:55:15 <CensoredBiscuit> and it would be nice if it could remind me to fill scripts aswell
 20:55:15 <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: i use my mobile (cell) phone
 20:55:28 <CensoredBiscuit> Personally at this point I use my mother
 20:55:36 <jmarsden> CensoredBiscuit: If the program can provide output via a web server, or write files where a local web server can see them, then the calendar just includes a URL to that page in the event display... it pops up, and you click on the link.
 20:55:38 <CensoredBiscuit> but I cant to that forever
 20:56:03 <jmarsden> This should not need a special dedicated medical calendar program :)
 20:56:09 <hajour> i think jmarsden  have a good pint
 20:56:12 <hajour> point
 20:56:24 * NRWlion request permission to speak
 20:56:32 <hajour> about the link ect
 20:56:36 <UndiFineD> CensoredBiscuit: tried google calendar ?
 20:56:36 <CensoredBiscuit> NRWlion go ahead
 20:56:44 <hajour> NRWlion,  take the floor
 20:56:48 <CensoredBiscuit> Indeed UndiFineD
 20:57:03 <hajour> for info NRWlion  is a medic
 20:57:18 <NRWlion> CensoredBiscuit, if i got u right. u are looking for something that practically is your "nurse" right?
 20:57:40 <NRWlion> for me there is no need for a calendar programm...
 20:57:41 <CensoredBiscuit> kinda sorta yes
 20:57:49 * jmarsden thinks programming Ubuntu to give sponge baths is a bit advanced :)
 20:58:10 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: excellent idea!
 20:58:19 <NRWlion> documentations about medications - in my rookie opinion - can better be handled in a database locally
 20:58:20 * JackyAlcine thinks jmarsden is underestimating the power of Ubuntu.
 20:58:39 <Artir> Ubuntu is secretly Skyn..... can't say that..
 20:58:48 * NRWlion is thinking of a MySQL / PHP solution on a localhost
 20:59:12 <NRWlion> that makes us independant from any programms and free in choosing chapabilities
 20:59:21 <hajour> good suggestion NRWlion
 20:59:24 <UndiFineD> CensoredBiscuit: what kind of mobile do you have ?
 20:59:36 <CensoredBiscuit> UndiFineD:  a cheap nokia flip
 21:00:09 <NRWlion> wouldnt that be easier?
 21:00:10 <UndiFineD> ok, CensoredBiscuit I have a few more Q's
 21:00:20 <UndiFineD> but those can wait till after the meeting
 21:00:23 <NRWlion> and those "programs" are platform independent
 21:00:23 <phillw> NRWlion: between php and MySQL, this is possible.
 21:00:49 <CensoredBiscuit> I have limited knowledge of php and Mysql
 21:01:02 <NRWlion> i think of databases for apointments, medications and stuf
 21:01:03 <JackyAlcine> all hail PHP.
 21:01:09 <hajour> i think your idea is good CensoredBiscuit  compared on the more fill in from the others
 21:01:23 <UndiFineD> NRWlion: can you produce a list of medical information often requested ? for patients to bring in
 21:01:26 <NRWlion> CensoredBiscuit, why not developing that first as a normal OO Database?
 21:01:42 <phillw> CensoredBiscuit: yoe'ew not then one writing it :)
 21:01:57 <NRWlion> UndiFineD, that information depends on the illness of the people
 21:02:16 <NRWlion> but "normal" informations are: blood pressure, blood sugar
 21:02:37 <NRWlion> those informations give doctors lots of information
 21:02:37 <hajour> ect
 21:02:47 <UndiFineD> yes, but I was thinking of blood info, medication, etc
 21:03:00 <UndiFineD> I have no idea what commonly is asked of people
 21:03:04 <NRWlion> please specify... dont get you
 21:03:04 <hajour> there is a lot more then blood pressure and sucer
 21:03:08 <phillw> NRWlion: because I am I stict on on the project being able to run on lubuntu
 21:03:31 <JackyAlcine> We didn't hit 20 UTC yet? just asking.
 21:03:37 <JackyAlcine> ...
 21:03:40 <JackyAlcine> we're past no?
 21:03:53 <NRWlion> phillw, i suggest we should first develop a database in OO to get the info and structure
 21:03:57 * jmarsden remains unconvinced that anything needs to be 'written' for this. beyond finding ways to get the existing medical apps to output their info in a form a local web server can display.
 21:04:09 * JackyAlcine seconds jmarsden's motion.
 21:04:21 <jmarsden> JackyAlcine: It is now 21:03 UTC
 21:04:26 <phillw> JackyAlcine: I'm just waiting for the 'other information' section
 21:04:41 <JackyAlcine> Sam here, phillwster. :D
 21:04:42 <NRWlion> than we can transform it into Web databases
 21:04:50 <CensoredBiscuit> I was hoping another chair could take the reign
 21:04:56 <NRWlion> just my 5 cents
 21:05:12 <JackyAlcine> ah.
 21:05:15 <JackyAlcine> UndiFineD? :)
 21:05:16 <CensoredBiscuit> with my medical problem slowly getting worse
 21:05:24 <hajour> i want to kidnap NRWlion  for to join the team
 21:05:48 <CensoredBiscuit> If you have any questions/comments on the medical recording thing
 21:05:50 <CensoredBiscuit> pm me
 21:05:57 <NRWlion> i am already kidnapped by phillw for CensoredBiscuit to assist with HTML for Webpages
 21:06:01 <hajour> ok CensoredBiscuit :)
 21:06:17 <phillw> hajour: tool late, he's alread been kidnapped - I teach my padawans well :D
 21:06:27 <hajour> :(
 21:06:57 <hajour> he can give good information for some things i talk about it later
 21:06:59 <NRWlion> CensoredBiscuit, a word with you (when you're back)
 21:07:19 <CensoredBiscuit> pm me NRWlion
 21:07:20 <NRWlion> hajour, questions will always be answered by my office :D
 21:07:30 <NRWlion> you mean query?
 21:07:33 <phillw> JackyAlcine: are taking back over chair?
 21:07:50 <hajour> next topic plz
 21:07:53 <UndiFineD> who is going to look into the medical alarm thingy ?
 21:07:55 <JackyAlcine> Shall I or does someone want to volunteer?
 21:08:14 <hajour> is Cheri703  around
 21:08:22 <hajour> ?
 21:08:43 <Cheri703> yep
 21:08:47 <hajour> Cheri703,  is good in research
 21:09:20 <Cheri703> point me at it, and I can find out whatever info you need/is available :)
 21:09:20 * hajour wants to idnap you for to do research Cheri703 :)
 21:09:32 <phillw> JackyAlcine: I'll take it is required, but that would mean me not being able to quickly respond to pings from other teams.
 21:09:41 * CensoredBiscuit is awesome and medicated
 21:10:11 <phillw> *if it si*
 21:10:21 <jmarsden> Cheri703: Are you able to try out some of the existing calendar/reminder programs in Ubuntu along the lines of this discussion, and report back to the group at the next meeting on suitable ones for use by CensoredBiscuit and others with similar needs?
 21:10:22 <hajour> so are you take the task Cheri703 ?:)
 21:10:24 <phillw> gmmmm... if it is
 21:10:32 <JackyAlcine> phillw: Are you addressing the upstreaming?
 21:10:50 <Cheri703> jmarsden, hajour: are you both referring to the same project?
 21:10:55 <jmarsden> Yes
 21:10:57 <phillw> that is subject I ish to address
 21:10:59 <UndiFineD> yes Cheri703
 21:11:15 <hajour> yes
 21:11:16 <Cheri703> sure, do you have a list of software to try and a list of which needs need to be met?
 21:11:27 <JackyAlcine> phillw: you're on a oll, lol roll.
 21:11:43 <jmarsden> Cheri703: See earlier discussion and also do   apt-cache search reminder    for some possible programs to try.
 21:11:48 <Cheri703> ok
 21:11:48 <UndiFineD> Cheri703: you can ask CensoredBiscuit
 21:11:54 <Cheri703> I'll take a look
 21:12:02 <Cheri703> when is the next meeting? (so I know my time frame)
 21:12:35 <JackyAlcine> Cheri703: That should be addressed towards the end.
 21:12:35 <phillw> JackyAlcine: do you want say your bit, or do you want me to go 1st?
 21:12:49 <Cheri703> k
 21:12:49 <UndiFineD> Cheri703: we hope 2 weeks
 21:12:52 <JackyAlcine> Nope, it's less melodramatic when you go.
 21:12:54 <wolfpack> \Quit "Leaving "
 21:13:46 * jmarsden suggests #action Cheri703 resarch calendar/reminder applications and report back at next meeting
 21:13:56 * jmarsden suggests we then #topic and continue...
 21:14:00 <JackyAlcine> #action Cheri703 resarch calendar/reminder applications and report back at next meeting
 21:14:00 * meetingology Cheri703 resarch calendar/reminder applications and report back at next meeting
</pre>

==== moving upstream ====
<pre>
 21:14:55 <UndiFineD> #topic moving upstream
 21:14:55 <meetingology> TOPIC: moving upstream
 21:15:38 <phillw> JackyAlcine: do you wish to go 1st?, or me?
 21:15:48 <JackyAlcine> it's all yours.
 21:17:00 <hajour> phillw take the floor
 21:17:46 <phillw> well, for those who are not on mailing list, as the goal of both wintermute and speechcontrol are to be accessible accross all linuxes, both teams have been promoted to upstream status
 21:18:52 <phillw> ths means that whilst we still have full access to ubuntu, we now have access to every other dev on any flavour of linux.
 21:20:05 <phillw> as a part of this ##sii areas have been set up along with and ssi web area, this is outstanding progress
 21:20:55 <phillw> there will also be a web area for both SC and WC
 21:21:10 <phillw> as it will on the forum
 21:22:24 <JackyAlcine> SpeechControl's moving on UP.
 21:22:40 <phillw> a decisions has yet to made to move speech control channel under the ##ssi banner
 21:23:16 <hajour> what is that phillw
 21:23:19 <hajour> ?
 21:23:27 <UndiFineD> I would like to have a leaders meeting on that
 21:23:40 <phillw> things happened real quick, and us admins can only do so much at once :)
 21:24:49 <phillw> UndiFineD: indeed, they need to chat, as dante is wanting close ##wintermute and put us all under the sii banner.
 21:26:12 <JackyAlcine> Nothing to say?
 21:26:22 <phillw> UndiFineD: as I hopefully made clear in the email, we are still two seperate teams, but under a new banner
 21:26:49 <hajour> is it then stil open source i try to understand sorry for the many questions
 21:27:10 <JackyAlcine> Questions are what we need, lol.
 21:27:22 <UndiFineD> I would like the SII to be a proper organization for the protection of projects.
 21:27:27 <JackyAlcine> Open source it shall remain.
 21:27:39 <phillw> wintermute is gpl v3, just the same as speech control is.
 21:28:00 <UndiFineD> yep, but the license does not protect it :)
 21:28:15 <hajour> then we still can take padawans in correct?
 21:29:15 <phillw> UndiFineD: oh yes it does.... believe you me, they have sued MS an apple already and won, thsose companies know not to stealing.
 21:29:23 <hajour> with all the people with knowledge here this is a good project for students
 21:29:41 <UndiFineD> atm there is no organisation that will protect the projects
 21:30:21 <jmarsden> UndiFineD: EFF projects open source projects if they run into legal issues.
 21:30:26 <phillw> UndiFineD: hajour several of the sii rooms are password protected
 21:30:50 <JackyAlcine> hajour: Being that the SII is an institute, a wing of it can be dedicated to education, but we can't do that right now, we would NEED something to teach first. lol
 21:31:17 <hajour> ok i  hold you on that JackyAlcine
 21:31:19 * jmarsden thinks all this renaming and new organizations and logos and stuff is not necessarily terribly productive; open source software projects are measured primarily by their code ...
 21:31:47 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: it was somewhat forced upon us
 21:31:57 <hajour> i have to think it over first
 21:32:33 <jmarsden> UndiFineD: #ubuntu-speechcontrol is not forced to do anything at all, is it?  anyway, just my thoughts...
 21:32:38 <phillw> jmarsden: speech control has been moved to upstream, just as things like the chromium browser are.
 21:32:42 <hajour> i want first to be good informed about this in all aspects
 21:33:11 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: we were a part of #ubuntu-accessibility and #ubuntu-beginners-team
 21:33:18 <hajour> phillw,  jmarsden  JackyAlcine  Daniel0108 ^
 21:33:26 <hajour> DanteAshton, ^
 21:33:41 <hajour> sorry Daniel0108  wrong name
 21:33:50 <hajour> was meant for DanteAshton
 21:34:15 <phillw> it was made completely plain to me that we will retain our close links to ubuntu. I hope I explained that in the email I sent out
 21:34:34 <UndiFineD> phillw: quite clear to me
 21:35:38 <JackyAlcine> And to me as well.
 21:36:19 <phillw> jmarsden: it is right PITA moving house, but we got promoted and had to.
 21:36:56 <hajour> i want would like to discus this in a chat with jmarsden because he ask good questions.phillw because he knows a lot from all the irc things .ja and DanteAshton  to listen to there saying
 21:37:14 <hajour> and UndiFineD  to support me
 21:37:32 <JackyAlcine> we can do that in ##sii-general, I guess.
 21:37:38 <hajour> and JackyAlcine
 21:37:42 <hajour> ofcourse
 21:37:58 <jmarsden> phillw: I'm a bit unconvinced.  AFAIK, "moved to upstream" is not a commonly used phrase in open source software development.  All of this sounds like a lot of politics, and not real design and development happening, to me.  If this change actually gets the actual work the team set out to do done faster/better, great... if not, why is it happening?
 21:38:03 <hajour> ok what this the last topic or are there more?
 21:38:54 <phillw> hajour: the two teams are two tems, but both need eachother for this wonderful project to happen.
 21:38:59 <hajour> i not yet make decision because i know to little from it right now
 21:39:46 <hajour> have we more topics ore are we done ?
 21:40:11 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: Mainly because of the benefit of the resources, the project's being moved upstream.
 21:40:14 <UndiFineD> jmarsden: we are currently in an ubuntu channel,  but the community council decided we should go upstream
 21:40:59 <phillw> jmarsden: simply put, it means for us that we can pull in any dev from any flavour of lunux onto the team whilst retaining our close tie to ubuntu - I really do see it as a win-win for the teams.
 21:40:59 <UndiFineD> I suggest we finish this topic and move to the last one
 21:41:48 <JackyAlcine> Don't see any other comments...
 21:42:01 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: Bitesize projects
 21:42:27 <hajour> i don't knowe who that have filled in
 21:42:40 <UndiFineD> me
 21:42:57 <hajour> then UndiFineD  will take the floor
 21:43:03 <UndiFineD> can we move to next topic ?
 21:43:10 <hajour> yes
 21:43:15 <NRWlion> +1
 21:43:58 <hajour> note that decision will made later about the ##sii-general,
 21:44:11 <hajour> or what it is called
</pre>

==== Bitesize projects ====
<pre>
 21:44:15 <UndiFineD> #topic Bitesize projects
 21:44:15 <meetingology> TOPIC: Bitesize projects
 21:44:36 <popey> 21:40:13 < UndiFineD> jmarsden: we are currently in an ubuntu channel,  but the community council decided we should go upstream
 21:44:39 <popey> not true
 21:44:40 <popey> (for the record)
 21:45:17 <UndiFineD> I dont know exactly JackyAlcine but I have the feeling not everyone is working on development who have signed up for that
 21:45:43 <popey> (sorry, only just noticed what was said)
 21:45:45 <UndiFineD> and thus I like to see a few more smaller projects that people can work on
 21:45:55 <UndiFineD> thanks popey
 21:46:13 <hajour> popey,  i would get more info from that after the meeting
 21:46:21 <popey> sure, ping me after
 21:46:25 <JackyAlcine> I feel the same way, UndiFineD, and I don't know if I have the right to kick them from the development team; I have sent out projects and todos that could have been addressed.
 21:46:35 <popey> sorry to interrupt
 21:47:21 <hajour> i will do that popey  thank you :)
 21:47:26 <UndiFineD> so I suggest we make up for a few small classes to be programmed that you guys can use JackyAlcine
 21:48:06 <hajour> np popey :)
 21:48:13 <JackyAlcine> I have to find out what can code and who *needs* to be done; it looks like there's about 6 coders and 22 students. =/
 21:48:55 <hajour> just mail with the ask who are coders and who are students JackyAlcine
 21:49:17 <JackyAlcine> It's not even that, hajour, if I do; some will come, loiter and flutter off.
 21:49:17 <hajour> that's why i asked for a wiki with a table
 21:49:36 <JackyAlcine> IfBut as you wish.
 21:49:39 <hajour> so it will made more clear
 21:50:05 <hajour> make a note from who have done thins you soon will find out then
 21:50:12 <hajour> things
 21:50:45 <hajour> but note some are here for the later stadia in speechcontrol
 21:50:54 <hajour> JackyAlcine, ^
 21:51:17 <JackyAlcine> Hm.
 21:51:37 <hajour> thats why i asked for a table
 21:51:49 <UndiFineD> JackyAlcine: if what you say is true, and you have 22 coding students, make a list of classes to be made and what they should be able to do
 21:51:55 <hajour> with skills task  enz
 21:52:14 <UndiFineD> each one is assigned one
 21:52:22 <UndiFineD> and see how fast they produce
 21:52:40 <UndiFineD> ofcourse we are open for questions
 21:53:05 <JackyAlcine> Alrighty, not a bad idea, sounds like a term paper, but I'm up for it.
 21:53:11 <UndiFineD> some have accessibility issues, and are therefore a bit slower
 21:53:24 <UndiFineD> no reason to kick them
 21:54:05 <hajour> are you willing to do that to do research about it JackyAlcine ?
 21:54:16 <JackyAlcine> hajour: I am.
 21:54:30 <hajour> ok then JackyAlcine  get that task note it
 21:54:42 * JackyAlcine makes a note.
 21:54:49 * jmarsden thinks that the real issue seems to be a lack of willing and able coders, to move software development forward.  The project will need to decide how much it can afford to use scarce developer resources on training at this early stage, and still actually produce useful real software.
 21:55:07 <jmarsden> BTW we can use #action to "note" what Jacky has agreed to do :)
 21:55:26 <hajour> i just said that to UndiFineD  jmarsden  :)
 21:55:50 <UndiFineD> #action JackyAlcine to make a list of students and programmers, and assign a small task to each of them
 21:55:50 * meetingology JackyAlcine to make a list of students and programmers, and assign a small task to each of them
 21:56:09 <hajour> what means scarce jmarsden
 21:56:19 * NRWlion is a student assigned to work on HTML Jobs ^^ (for the record)
 21:56:26 <jmarsden> hajour: limited in quantity, rare, something you do not have enough of.
 21:56:26 <JackyAlcine> hajour: To have little of.
 21:57:09 <Artir> +1 to that ^^
 21:57:12 <hajour> ok thank you for the information
</pre>

==== next meeting ====
<pre>
 21:57:27 <UndiFineD> #topic, next meeting
 21:57:27 <meetingology> TOPIC: , next meeting
 21:57:28 <jmarsden> Jacky is being asked to be both a trainer/professor *and* lead developer... is that wise?  Will he burn out? :)
 21:57:50 <hajour> but i want to say i have seen people with no knowledge here now doing very good things
 21:58:02 <JackyAlcine> jmarsden: Oh, I won't teach. lol, not all, some of the able-boided ones liked pedro3005 will assit me.
 21:58:12 <jmarsden> OK.
 21:58:49 * JackyAlcine begins to wither away. lol
 21:58:52 <hajour> jmarsden, ^
 21:59:12 <UndiFineD> ok, next meeting
 21:59:29 <UndiFineD> as we have seen tonight, lots of things to discuss
 22:00:05 <UndiFineD> so next meeting should not be away for to long
 22:00:17 <jmarsden> IRC channel 'location' of next meeting may be unclear... suggest same time two weeks from today, 05 March 2011 ?
 22:00:21 <UndiFineD> I suggested earlier to have the next one in 2 weeks
 22:00:26 <hajour> i suggest to put the next meeting date in about 2 weeks .]
 22:00:29 <hajour> hehe
 22:00:42 <jmarsden> Looks like we have consensus :)
 22:00:51 <hajour> 1 day before my birthday :)
 22:01:12 <hajour> 5 march it will be
 22:01:12 <JackyAlcine> Really?
 22:01:18 <hajour> same time again?
 22:01:22 <JackyAlcine> Inded.
 22:01:37 <UndiFineD> #action next meeting march 5th 19.00 utc
 22:01:37 * meetingology next meeting march 5th 19.00 utc
</pre>

==== any other business ====
<pre>
 22:01:53 <UndiFineD> #topic any other business
 22:01:53 <meetingology> TOPIC: any other business
 22:02:17 <hajour> are there some who want to say something or ask ?
 22:03:10 <hajour> i see open forums have we had that already?
 22:03:40 <phillw> I've been 'quietly' advised that we move the channel to ##sii
 22:04:33 <hajour> ok meeting done then i think .then we can discus the ##sii
 22:04:56 <phillw> indeeed
 22:05:06 <UndiFineD> thanks everyone for being here so long
 22:05:10 <NRWlion> ok guys. i gotta need some sleep
 22:05:21 <NRWlion> its nearly midnight here ^^
 22:05:23 <hajour> i never have had so long meeting :)
 22:05:29 <UndiFineD> #endmeeting
</pre>

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
