{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

    My name is Spenser Gilliland.  I'm an undergraduate Electrical and Computer Engineering student at Baylor University.  I'm learning python, xml, css, c/c++, java, php etc.  I'm the creator of python-dhcpd-conf a library aimed at creating an object oriented abstraction of a dhcpd.conf file.

== Development Machines ==

=== Myth ===
  Myth TV server.  I do most of my development on this machine remotely using Xdmcp, SSH.
  AMD Dual-Core Proc, PCHDtv 5500, 2gb memory.

=== desktop ===
  Frontend to myth, also my router, sometimes.  It's my main interface.
  AMD 1.2ghz, 768mb ram.

=== tv ===
  This is just a computer using composite out that I have hooked up to the tv in my bedroom.  Runs    myth-frontend.
  AMD 1.1ghz, 512mb ram.

=== mac ===
  Powermac G5.  Runs well got it when my dad's company decided the motorola PPC boards were not the next hot new thing for embedded systems.
  Dual G5 1.6ghz, 1.25gb ram.

=== oldlap ===
  My laptop that broke at the hinges... sad death.  dismantled on my workbench learning jb weld.
  AMD 3200+, 1.2gb ram.  Yippee, I'm spoiled rotten and my dad offered to buy me a new computer.

== Embedded Systems ==

=== arm ===
  EP7312 ARM7 devel board.  Pretty neat haven't gotten it to boot yet but should get an EDK soon.

=== router ===
  the standard wrt54gs running OpenWRT.
