{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Who is spiderbatdad? ===

* My primary contributions to the community have been in the forums: over 5,000 posts. I have written 2 short how-tos. One concerning menu.lst, the other on preloading libv4l and making a launcher to do the same.

* On launchpad I am a Ubuntero, and have made a several bug reports and tried to follow up.

* On the help wiki I have done some small editing.

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~spiderbatdad (launchpad)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=55512|spiderbatdad (UbuntuForums)]]</nowiki>
* Email: spiderbatco@gmail.com 

Primarily an end-user, I love the Ubuntu operating system. I have been a member of the forums since Nov. 2005, and using Ubuntu since Breezy Badger. While I am not a good programmer, I have become a sufficient user. I keep an apache server online, use openssh, and maintain a mail server using courier-imap-ssl, postfix, squirrelmail, clamav, amavis, and shorewall. I have had some practice patching and compiling modules for webcams, and I continually take opportunities to install and configure new apps. I spend a good deal of time in the Ubuntu forums. I was not very active until about 2 years ago, because I had almost nothing to contribute. As I learned to use Linux, I found the forums a very satisfying way share what I had learned. I have shared Ubuntu with a number of friends and family members, and continue to mention it in circles where computer talk enters the conversation.

=== Wiki Efforts ===

'''Pages marked for: Deletion'''
* BreezyUpgrade
* BreezyUpgradeNotes 
* HoaryUpgradeNotes
* <nowiki>[[Installation-I386-510BreezyBadger]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu-Breezy]]</nowiki> 

'''Pages marked for: Cleanup '''
* AddingProgramToSessionStartup 
* AptMoveHowtoBreezy 
* <nowiki>[[Installation-I386]]</nowiki>

'''Currently Cleaning Up:'''
* AddingProgramToSessionStartup
* BasicTroubleshooting 

Where pages marked for deletion had parent pages, links have been removed from parents during the category change.

...

----
CategoryHomepage
