{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Omschrijf spraakherkenning in Ubuntu hier.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Project Leader:
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hajour | hajour ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Development Coordinator
| <nowiki>[[jackyalcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki>
|-
| This team is tied to
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Team|Accessibility]]</nowiki>
|-
| Documention
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw | phillw]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UndiFineD | UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad:
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~speechcontrolteam|Speech Control Team]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC Room:
| 
| <nowiki>[[irc:--freenode.net-##SpeechControl|##SpeechControl]]</nowiki>
|}

== Project Mission ==
To make the impossible '''possible'''.

SpeechControl is an application that is to be designed to eventually be integrated into any <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/ | Ubuntu distro]]</nowiki> (and possibly into any Linux system). It is to incorporate another means of input for the end-user who may be one of a disability or medical ailment. Thus, SpeechControl is to be a powerful accessibility component for Linux systems.

Keep effort to a minimum, re-use existing technology Solve potential issues Build an Accessible application to preform tasks by speech (or normal input) Have the results returned to the user (with information overload protection). 

Long term: startrek like communications, dictate a document etc.

SpeechControl will be able to accomplish the following:

* '''Speech Synthesis''': More commonly known at TTS (Text-To-Speech), the voice that communicates with the end-user will be as natural and inviting as technology permits.

* '''Speech recognition''': Using the available tools at our disposal, SpeechControl will be able to comprehend your spoken word. 

* '''Virtual Assistant''': 

* '''Preconfigured Command Execution'''

== Meetings ==
Can you all please enter your availability onto <nowiki>[[http://www.doodle.com/participation.html | Meeting time]]</nowiki> You can adjust it to your local time zone to see how it looks for you. We will ensure the meeting takes place when the most people are available, and if needed we will cycle meetings in order to allow everyone not having to be attending at 5AM local time.
 
=== Meeting Agenda ===

Please add your topic to be discussed prior to the actual meeting.

If you cannot attend, please make a note here.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Person
| Reason
|-
| JackyAlcine
| is away more often due to laptop problems
|}

==== Accessible discussion ====
* via voice and irc chat Teamspeak / Skype  / Mumble.
==== Code of Conduct ====
* Get all members to sign.
==== Simon ====
* License situation update is the deadline (feb 14th) feasible ?
* if license is possbile then Extendability: API + documentation Scenarios

==== What do we want to accomplish? ====
* Command
* Execute
* Return results
* Optional: Manage reptitive tasks (e-mail, scheduling, etc.) for enduser.

==== Components ====
* Pulse Audio
* Alsa
* OSS
* Dbus
* AT-SPI
* Simon Listens
* vedics
* Julius
* Sphinx
* Sonic
* speech-dispatcher
* espeak
* festival
* OpenMary
* High constrast themes

==== Artificial Intelligence ====
* compile a list of general commands
* lexicon breakdown
* command building
* language composition
* lexicon buildup
* Might be useful: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_language_processing

==== Across the Family ====
* The solutions should not overly dependent on only one flavour of the ubuntu family, and idealy available to Linux in general.

==== Who is willing to do what ====
* Leader: <nowiki>[[hajour|hajour]]</nowiki>
* Development Coordinator: <nowiki>[[JackyAlcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki>
* UI Gtk: <nowiki>[[JackyAlcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki>
* UI Qt: 
* Input Control: 
* Recognition: 
* Artificial Intelligence: <nowiki>[[JackyAlcine|JackyAlcine]]</nowiki>
* Output Control: 
* Documentation: <nowiki>[[Phillw|Phillw]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[UndiFineD|UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
* Promotion: <nowiki>[[hajour|hajour]]</nowiki>
* Communications:

==== Any Other Business ====

== Minutes From Last Meetings ==
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl/Meetings/20101218 |18th Dec 2010]]</nowiki>.

<nowiki>[[http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/to-make-impossible-possible/2010/to-make-impossible-possible.2010-12-10-23.24.moin.txt | Initial Project Chat.]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryAccessibility CategoryAccessibility
