{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

My name is Johannah "Hannah" Sprinz, also known as NeoTheThird. I study computer science and political science at <nowiki>[[https://www.lmu.de/|LMU]]</nowiki>. In the Ubuntu Community I nowadays mainly work in the <nowiki>[[https://ubports.com | UBports]]</nowiki> project to support the continued development of <nowiki>[[Touch | Ubuntu Touch]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Pronouns
| <nowiki>[[ https:--my.pronoun.is-she?or=they | she-they ]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[https://spri.nz | spri.nz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Location
| Munich, Germany
|-
| Languages
| German, English
|-
| Timezone
| CET/CEST
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~neothethird | ~neothethird]]</nowiki>
|-
| GitHub
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/neothethird | NeoTheThird]]</nowiki>
|-
| GitLab
| <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.com/neothethird | NeoTheThird]]</nowiki>
|-
| ORCID
| <nowiki>[[https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6425-7054 | 0000-0002-6425-7054]]</nowiki>
|-
| AskUbuntu
| <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/users/624521/neothethird | NeoTheThird]]</nowiki>
|-
| Personal Email
| neo at neothethird dot de
|-
| Telegram
| <nowiki>[[https://t.me/neothethird | @neothethird]]</nowiki>
|-
| Matrix
| <nowiki>[[https://matrix.to/#/@neothethird:matrix.org | @neothethird:matrix.org]]</nowiki>
|-
| Twitter
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/neothethird | @neothethird]]</nowiki>
|-
| Mastodon
| <nowiki>[[https://mastodon.social/@NeoTheThird | @neothethird@mastodon.social]]</nowiki>
|-
| Speakerdeck
| <nowiki>[[https://speakerdeck.com/neothethird/ | NeoTheThird]]</nowiki>
|-
| ResearchGate
| <nowiki>[[https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Johannah-Sprinz | Johannah Sprinz]]</nowiki>
|-
| Academia.edu
| <nowiki>[[https://lmu-munich.academia.edu/JohannahSprinz | Johannah Sprinz]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

'''UBports & Ubuntu Touch'''

* Joined UBports community in August 2016
* Member of the <nowiki>[[http://188.226.166.211/foundation/ubports-foundation/foundation-boardmembers | Board of Directors]]</nowiki> of the upcoming UBports Foundation
* Organizational work towards the endowment of UBports as a Foundation under German law (Write statutes, communication with government authorities, sponsor acquisition, etc.)
* Head of <nowiki>[[https://ubports.com/community/get-involved/quality-assurance-sc | QA]]</nowiki>; contributed Ubuntu Touch bug reports and tests since the Canonical days
* Maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubports/ubports-app | UBports app]]</nowiki> and co-maintainer of the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubports/ubports-installer | Installer]]</nowiki>
* Worked on moving, improving, creating and preserving <nowiki>[[https://docs.ubports.com | Ubuntu Touch documentation]]</nowiki>
* Worked on the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubports/ubports.com/commits/old | old UBports website]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubports/ubuntu-touch.io/tree/new-website | upcoming Ubuntu Touch website]]</nowiki> and associated infrastructure
* Regular appearances on the <nowiki>[[https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDGJ7jdEoOx6_o_GbkjFaBg | UBports Community Q&A]]</nowiki>
* Managing the <nowiki>[[https://patreon.com/ubports | UBports Patreon page]]</nowiki>
* Contributions in various other areas of the broader project

'''App development'''

* Created <nowiki>[[https://github.com/NeoTheThird/8192 | 8192]]</nowiki>, a clone of 2048.
* Took over <nowiki>[[https://github.com/NeoTheThird/Mines | Mines]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://github.com/NeoTheThird/Logviewer | Logviewer]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://github.com/NeoTheThird/uReadIt | uReadIt]]</nowiki> after they were abandoned.

'''Ubucon Europe Paris 2017'''

* Helped setting up various things around the venue
* <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/UBports/status/906549043572199424/photo/1 | Worked at the UBports booth]]</nowiki>
* Speaker

'''Ubuntu brand and community'''

* Throwing proverbial rotten eggs at Marius Quabeck for switching to Solus (probably my most valuable contribution)

'''Ubuntu Desktop'''

* Translations to German (less today)
* Bug reporting (less today)
* Support on <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/users/624521/neothethird | AskUbuntu]]</nowiki>

''While I'm not employed by the UBports Foundation, I'm sometimes reimbursed from community donations for parts of my expenses (eg. travel, accommodation, development hardware).''

=== Future Goals ===

Of course I want to keep up my contributions to Ubuntu Touch! The dream of convergence and being able to run the exact same code on your phone and laptop is still alive, so the desktop-side of Unity 8 is probably my next field of contribution. With Mir-Wayland support improving a lot in recent releases, being able to actually use it for production does not seem that far away any more. The Phone, Mir and Unity 8 team did so much amazing work, it would make me really happy to see it being used more widely!

I'd love to learn more about snaps. I'll try to snap my own apps soon to get some more experience. It's an exciting technology, especially since it could allow us to get more traditional desktop applications on Ubuntu Touch in the future...

Another big priority for me is to make sure, that the UBports community does not diverge too much from the general Ubuntu community. That's why I'm lobbying in various parts of the Ubuntu Community to acknowledge the existence and relevance of UBports, and I hope to see that situation improve.

In the long run, I would really like to get into low-level- and kernel development, but so far I have been lacking time to really dive into that topic.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

[Johannah] and I joined the UBports community around the same time in mid-2016. Since then, we've collaborated over various projects. Some of these include community management, the UBports blog, and UBports' move to GitHub. [They've] been integral to our <nowiki>[[https://docs.ubports.com|documentation]]</nowiki> and always [show] a desire to improve in [their] craft. The Ubuntu Touch website redesign that [they are] currently working on is simply amazing. I'm excited to continue to work with [Johannah] in the future. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:universalsuperbox]]</nowiki> 
[Johannah] is just all around a awesome person. [They're] super enthusiastic about Ubuntu and Ubuntu touch, and [they have] done amazing work helping doing the move of Ubuntu touch to UBports. [They are] also one of the core people in UBports, and [are] definitely one of the people responsible for UBports current success! Now [they are] also part of the Board of Directors at UBports. I really love working with [them], and looking forward working with [them] in the future!
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mariogrip]]</nowiki> 