{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Contact Via'''
| '''Contact Details'''
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~amachu/|amachu]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| amachu AT freenode Channel: #ubuntu-tam
|-
| '''Email''':
| amachu@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''Location''':
| Chennai, India
|-
| '''Ubuntu Tamil Team Mailing Lists'''
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-tam|l10n]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-tam|Tamil Nadu User's List]]</nowiki>
|}

=== At Ubuntu ===

<nowiki>[[attachment:Amachu]]</nowiki>

Board Member of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/AsiaOceania | Asia Oceania Membership Board]]</nowiki>

=== Free Software ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.srmuniv.ac.in/tamil_perayam.php?page=ldc-il | SRM Tamil Computational Linguistics event]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://titiandigital.blogspot.in/2011/09/ptd-discussion-with-open-source-experts.html | Titian Digital Event on Tamil Schools using Ubuntu LTSP, Malaysia]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2010-October/061606.html | Tamil Computing Kalasilangam University]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://lists.fedoraproject.org/pipermail/tamil-users/2010-August/000017.html | Yavarkkum & MIT meet on Tamil Computing]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-February/000784.html | Teerthamalai, Aroor]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/09/18/sfd-2008-special-free-software-philosophy-publication-in-tamil/ | Kattatra Menporul - Selected Essays of Richard M Stallman in Tamil]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/11/26/way-vision-journey-swadeshi-jagran-manch-talk-on-free-software/ | Swadeshi Jagran Manch - Way, Vision, Journey - Talk on Free Software & Tamil Computing Experiences]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-November/044818.html | Mayiladurai AVC FOSS Intro - Fedora Based]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://lists.debian.org/debian-user-tamil/ | Initiated Debian Tamil List]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Tamil Team ====

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2009/03/17/fossconf-2009-ubuntu-tamil-team/ | FOSS Conf 2009, Madurai]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-January/000783.html | Erode Nanda Arts College]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tam/2009-January/000779.html | Arunai Arts College, Tiruvannamalai]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/12/01/udhagmandalam-ubuntu/ | Intrepid Release event Udhagai]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/11/24/tiruppur-intrepid-lauch/ | Intrepid Release event Tiruppur]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-November/044583.html | National Conference on Free Software Cochin]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/11/10/intrepid-release-event-erode/ | Intrepid Release Event - Erode, Nov 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://kanimozhi.org.in/kanimozhi/?p=108 | Feel the Freedom - SASTRA, Sep 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/09/14/letters-to-be-made-better/ | Letters to be made better - Fonts workshop, Sep 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/insyder-2008-powered-by-free-software/ | Insider - 2008 - Rural development Conference at Arunai Engineering College - Thiruvannamalai, Aug 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/08/28/patent-manual-stake-holders-meet-chennai/ | Patent Manual Stake Holder's Meet - Chennai - 28 Aug 08]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/07/19/ubuntu-kaipidi-thozhargal-across-tamil-nadu/| Ubuntu kaippidi Thozargal - July 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://markmail.org/message/lvkt4oq3si5pi6l7|KDE 4.1 to have Tamil - May 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/04/24/guess-whatmmm-glad-to-share-with-you-all-that-we-are-going-to-have-two-new-team-leaders-for-ubuntu-tamil-team-its-thangamani-arun-httpswikiubuntucomthangam-from-chennai-india-who-will/| Successor Identification - April 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/01/11/ubuntu-cds-produced-locally/|Ubuntu CD Local Production - Jan 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2007/09/19/gnome-translations-upstream/|GNOME Translations Upstream - Sep 2008]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2007/06/29/vpp-services-now-available-from-ubuntu-tamil-team/|VPP Services for Ubuntu CD Distribution - June 2007]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2007/06/05/hello-world/|Initiated Ubuntu Tamil Team - June 2006]]</nowiki>

=== Sessions/ Events Conducted/ Participated ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.sarai.net/resolveuid/c2d0278ff08f68d18a2236781e726ad7 | Indlinux 2009 Meetup]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-March/040371.html | GNU/ Linux with Ubuntu Intro for http://cwdr.org.in members]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2008-February/039607.html | A day GNU/ Linux Intro with Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2008/02/04/foss-conf-rocked/ | FossConf, Chennai, India]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2007-September/036497.html | Manonmaniyam Sundaranar University, Thirunelveli, India]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2007-August/036388.html| SS Jain College, Chennai, India]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://www.ae.iitm.ac.in/pipermail/ilugc/2007-September/036409.html| St. Joseph Engineering College, Avadi, Chennai, India]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2007/08/05/ubuntu-tamil-team-chennai-valai-padivar-sandhippu/|Chennai Bloggers Meet, India]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2007/12/05/beyond-boundaries/| South Eastern University of Sri Lanka, Kalmunai, Sri Lanka]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.wordpress.com/2007/12/11/pudhucherry-bloggers-meet/|Puducherry Bloggers Meet, Puducherry, India]]</nowiki> 

=== Fedora ===

* Was a Fedora Ambassodor until recently
* [https://lists.fedoraproject.org/mailman/listinfo/tamil-users | Initiated & Administering the Tamil mailing list]

=== Translation Contribution/ Co-ordination ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-tam.org/avanam/nigazhchi/2008/feb/| Author & Maintainer of Ubuntu Basic Handbook in Tamil]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://l10n.kde.org/team-infos.php?teamcode=ta| KDE Translation Contributor/ Co-ordinator for Tamil]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/wwwta/|GNU Website translation Contributor/ Co-ordinator for Tamil]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/index.ta.html|Debian Website/ Documentation Translation Co-ordinator for Tamil]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://cvs.pgfoundry.org/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/pgtranslation/messages/ta/| Postgres Translation Co-ordinator for Tamil]]</nowiki> 

<nowiki>[[http://amachu.net/download/hacker_agarathi/hackers_new.csv| Hacker's dictionary English - Tamil Glossary of GNU/ Linux Terminologies]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.kanimozhi.kaniyam.com/01/ | Kanimozhi - Tamil Magazine to carry out FOSS News in Tamil]]</nowiki>, Now <nowiki>[[http://kaniyam.com | Kaniyam]]</nowiki>

=== Immediate Future? ===

* A Tamil distro based on Fedora & KDE.
* The distro to have Tamil Spell Checker in it & few new applications like Indic Onscreen keyboard for KDE, Tamil Dictionary.
* If somebody could work together, a Kubutu derivative can also be obtained.

=== At Press ===

* Wrote for Sify Tamil Online Magazine on Free Software Philosophy - The links are now extinct following its shutdown

=== Other Career/ Professional Info ===

In quest of doing Business with FOSS in TamilNadu. Started working/ searching with/ for like minded people. If you can do join me :-)

As Project Engineer of <nowiki>[[http://nrcfoss.org.in|NRCFOSS]]</nowiki> propagating Free and Open Source Software at Academic and other Levels in India for a year and two months.

Two-and-Half years at a IT Solutions Company - L&T Infotech as Software Engineer in developing/ maintaining/ supporting applications on Lotus Notes Technology for a Semiconductor Major.

Over half-an-year of Marketing Experience for Networking Solutions Provider - Precision Techserve Pvt Ltd.,.

A Bachelor of Engineering passing out of College in 2004 from Electronics and Communication discipline.

----
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| தேமதுரத் தமிழோசை உலகமெலாம் பரவும் வகை  செய்தல் வேண்டும்.
|}
----
CategoryHomepage
