{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== Introduction ==
This is a new activity section for <nowiki>[[StartUbuntu]]</nowiki> Project. We are trying to keep things fun and useful at the same time. Inspired by <nowiki>[[http://amjjawad.blogspot.com/2014/01/report-project-convert-my-neighbours-to.html | amjjawad's project]]</nowiki> to convert his neighbours (real life) from Windows XP to Ubuntu and its official variants, here is a nice competition that will definitely make things more interesting and motivate everyone involved with <nowiki>[[StartUbuntu]]</nowiki> to do the same. Also, it is great way to show to the world that we are so serious and we don't just ask people online to migrate to Ubuntu (and its variants) but do actually install that in real life for people to help them and make the migration process as smooth and easy as possible.

== Competition ==

* '''Please, edit this table by adding your name, number of machines you have converted and date of the last migration process. Also, try to keep this table updated by updating your record on regular basis.''' 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''No of converted machines'''
| '''Date of Last Convert'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[amjjawad]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://amjjawad.blogspot.com/2014/01/2014-report-project-convert-my.html | 62 + 2 machines]]</nowiki>
| 1-November-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[Robert Streeter 1]]</nowiki>
| 22 Machines
| 2-Jan-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[darktux]]</nowiki>
| 6 Machines
| 2-Sep-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[jeanmarc-gailis]]</nowiki>
| 5 Machines
| 25-Mar-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[Juan Carlos Vinet]]</nowiki>
| 29 Maquinas
| 12-Mar-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[brian-longoria]]</nowiki>
| 5 Machines
| 12-Mar-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[Na3iL]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://na3il.blogspot.com/2014/03/2014-report-project-convert-my.html|32 Machines]]</nowiki>
| 25-July-2015
|-
| <nowiki>[[es20490446e|Alberto Salvia Novella]]</nowiki>
| 1 machine (+massive marketing)
| 4-April-2014
|-
| Dennis Shimer
| 7 Machines
| 24-May-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.laketyersbeach.net.au/XP2XU.html | Rob Ward]]</nowiki>
| 4 Machines
| 25-June-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/kcbart | Jose Ahumada ]]</nowiki>
| 8 Machines
| 28-August-2014
|-
| <nowiki>[[nihil.enochian]]</nowiki>
| 18 Machines
| 8-Nov-2014
|}
<<BR>>

== Feedback or Question ==
If you have any feedback or any Question, please <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~startubuntu | Join StartUbuntu]]</nowiki> on Launchpad, <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/Teams/MailingLists#Subscribing | Subscribe to the mailing list]]</nowiki> and send us a email to the list :) 
