{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
<<BR>>
== VERY Important Note ==
Kindly be advised that this master plan has been set and proposed back in the days where StartUbuntu was a small project that hasn't yet started. Now, StartUbuntu has grown bigger and become well-known. Having that said, please '''focus more''' on the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/startubuntu | Blueprints]]</nowiki> since these will be up-to-date and more active for day-to-day activities. Our Strategies and plans will change depending on many situations and we have to be proactive and adopt the best approach as soon as possible. However, that does not mean we should get rid of this master plan or ignore it. As always, if you are in doubt, just ask :)
 

== Master Plan ==

To make life easier, this project will have different phases :)
In order to make it a successful project, we need to stick to the master plan! 

=== Phase 0 ===
Set a solid plan, set priorities, define our goals, explain what StartUbuntu is all about, highlight the important points, etc. All this will be done on this page and once this page is fully written and done, Phase 0 will be accomplished successfully.

=== Phase 1 ===
Build a Team. This is not going to be a one-man-job, this is going to be '''a massive community''' job ;)

=== Phase 2 ===
Once recruiting a team is done, this team needs to communicate and discuss all about this project:

* Join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~startubuntu | StartUbuntu Team]]</nowiki>.

* We can use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs#Live_Chat | IRC]]</nowiki> for Live Chat too (<nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=start-ubuntu | #start-ubuntu]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net | Freenode]]</nowiki>).

Communications Channels are very important to make this a successful project.

=== Phase 3 ===

Before we start anything, we must prepare something for the Windows XP Users in order to make life easier for them. Some or most if not all of them may never heard about Linux. Some of them think Linux is only for hackers, programmers and geeks. We need to explain to them what is Linux? we need to explain to them that <nowiki>[[http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/LNW.htm | Linux is not Windows]]</nowiki>. We need lots of efforts here. The most important technique is to be simple, plain and easy. No complications and no geeks stuff. '''Linux for a better easy life''', that is our motto.

For that, we need our own version of some kind of comparison between '''Ubuntu and its variants and Windows XP'''.

* Example that will make life easier - <nowiki>[[http://iamnewtolinux.blogspot.com/p/linux-vs-windows.html | Linux vs Windows]]</nowiki>.

One of the secret weapon will be Lubuntu 14.04. As per The Head of Lubuntu Developer, the plan is to make 14.04 an LTS Release. If that will become reality, this is a huge success itself. A great move and push for this project. Why? simply because most of Windows XP Users are running Windows XP on old machines. Chances are slim they are using it on the modern machines which are being solid with Windows 7 and Windows 8 these days. Unless of course they downgraded from Windows 7/Windows 8 to Windows XP. However, that does not mean Windows XP is being used right now ONLY on old machines. From the feedback of some Ubuntu Communities Users, Windows XP is being used on wide range of hardware. There are gamers, there are users who don't really care about updating their Windows XP system, there are many types of users. 

Not to worry, with the full set of Ubuntu Family; <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/derivatives | 8 options]]</nowiki> + 1 (Ubuntu) = 9 options ... Windows XP Users will be dazzled, no doubt about it :D

'''NOTE:'''
Dazzling them in the good way. I mean, we will NOT confuse them, we will make life easier for them. This is important to remember. Dazzling does not mean confusing - google it :)

=== Phase 4 ===

The actual action will start from this Phase. However, we are not yet ready to approach the users directly, there is a pre-step to that. In this Phase, we must approach as many projects, communities, organizations, websites, magazines, etc as possible. The more people know about this, the better. Using the Media is very important. Our voices must reach to the whole world. In order to achieve that, we must approach first some communities, etc.

See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StartUbuntu/Activities | StartUbuntu Activities]]</nowiki>

=== Phase 5 ===

After completing the previous four (4) Phases successfully, it is time to reach to Windows XP Users. If Phase 4 made a great success, other parties will play a great role to help us.

=== Phase 6 ===

The Second goal/aim of this project is to make the world a better place with Linux. Enlighten the world with Linux. People need to see the light eventually and these days, I've seen and heard that some companies are converting from Windows to Linux and go full Linux and this is a reality, not from our imagination :)

Having that said, and since Ubuntu and other family members (Lubuntu, Xubuntu, Kubuntu, etc) are Linux Distributions, our mission might not be limited to spread the word of Ubuntu, but also Linux in general ;)

So, in summary:
Phase A = Start Ubuntu - The current project
Phase B = Start Linux - The 2nd part of this project

'''HOWEVER, it is important to remember that it is TOO early to discuss or even think about that. Let's carry on and do what we like and love and success will follow eventually''' :)

=== Tip ===
The above Breakdown of The Phases is to explain in details about our plan and what we are doing or what we are up to. We don't have to follow the above steps in the same sequence or to be more accurate, we can be on more than one phase at the same time. Phases work in parallel not necessarily in sequence/order. Having that said, we can be on Phase 2, Phase 4 and Phase 5 at the very same time :) 

ALL Phases work in parallel simultaneously!
