{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Process for merge ==

1. Check MoM & DaD for merge<<BR>>
• Check nobody is assigned via comment on DaD and LP for open bug (you can check with uploader of package also)<<BR>>
2. Download the package with the corresponding grab-merge.sh script (i prefer MoM as it unpacks)<<BR>>
- Check the REPORT file and note the conflicts and also the build flag you should use<<BR>>
3. Change into directory & build the package with debuild -S -sa<<BR>>
4. Create the debdiff by diff debian.dsc ubuntu.dsc<<BR>>
• This is important that you say debian first then ubuntu<<BR>>
5. Check the debdiff file - changes with a<<BR>>
+ (added by ubuntu)<<BR>>
- (removed by ubuntu from debian package)<<BR>>
6. Check the debian/changelog to determine what the ubuntu* revisions have put into the debian revision<<BR>>
7. Check if these are still relevant (check the actual file you are patching!)<<BR>>
8. If relevant - include these in the changelog as carried across<<BR>>
9. Check if you are closing any existing LP bugs by this revision<<BR>>
10. debuild -S -v(version from REPORT)<<BR>>
11. debdiff again<<BR>>
12. sudo pbuilder build ubuntu.dsc<<BR>>
• check that it builds correctly! (read output carefully as it may fail and you wont notice (ok, maybe ive done that before))<<BR>>
13. Create a bug on LP for the merge<<BR>>
eg. Please merge name new version (universe) from Debian (unstable).<<BR>>
• paste your changelog into the bug<<BR>>
• submit the bug - record the bug number<<BR>>
14. Edit your debdiff to include the (LP: #bugnumber) to the changelog to automatically close the bug...<<BR>>
