{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Stefan Lesicnik, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Stefan Lesicnik
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~stefanlsd]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[stefanlsd]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a 28 year old male living in Johannesburg, South Africa.

I run a small Linux consulting company called LSD.<<BR>>
I enjoy learning and am currently taking German lessons. I am also working hard at improving my python skills.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've been involved with Linux since around 1996. After leaving school and doing an MCSE (sorry!), I knew I only wanted to work with Linux. My first distribution was Redhat 3.0.3 (Picasso). After using Gentoo for many years, i finally moved to Ubuntu Feisty.

I started contributing during the Intrepid cycle (20 uploads) and have continued to work during the Jaunty cycle (29 uploads).<<BR>>
I applied for <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/motu-council/2008-October/001743.html|UUC in October 2008]]</nowiki>

I worked a fair amount with the Ubuntu Security team during Intrepid and enjoyed my work there.

I feel that I still have a huge amount to learn, but also realise I am never going to know everything.

I am fairly active within my Loco and ran the Ubuntu Global Bugjam. <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-za.org/PackagingJam|PackageJam]]</nowiki> going to happen soon!

== My involvement ==

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stefanlsd/+related-software|Launchpad uploads]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?submitter=stefan@lsd.co.za|Patches forwarded to Debian]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

Ubuntu Security Team<<BR>>
Syncs / Merges<<BR>>
Packaging<<BR>>
General Bug work<<BR>>
FTBFS<<BR>>
NBS<<BR>>

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I was thinking that I hadn't done anything too remarkable, but doing some merges for Karmic, found myself thinking - 'Oh yeah, i remember that. That was pretty cool'. - So although I am not particularly proud of things i've done, here are some of the examples where I think i learnt the most.

* I wrote some documentation on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stefanlsd/dpkg-gensymbols|dpkg-gensymbols]]</nowiki>
* I packaged Google Gears for 32 & 64 bit Firefox as a Mozilla extension. (Currently in PPA but will be uploaded into REVU).
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/gutsy/+source/wireshark/+bug/290716|Wireshark security fix]]</nowiki> - Cherry picking from wireshark SVN to create security updates.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imview/+bug/306785|Imview FTBFS]]</nowiki> - Patch to properly use pkg-config (Learnt alot here)
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/300361|Btnx FTBFS]]</nowiki> - Jaunty uses -Werror which fails when writes returns aren't used.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gfax/+bug/332784|NBS Example]]</nowiki>

=== Things I could do better ===
There are sometimes some small problems in uploaded debdiffs. I think its a general problem and we need to make sure that we check everything before uploading.<<BR>>
I feel I have more to learn with regards to packaging. I learnt lots while packaging Google Gears, but often the depth of knowledge of the other MOTU's makes me feel like I hardly know anything.<<BR>>
Forwarding patches upstream and to Debian (although I feel I do this reasonably ok, there is always room for improvement).<<BR>>

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
My plans regardless of the outcome of this application are to continue working to make the Karmic release awesome. 

I have a bunch of merges I am responsible for.<<BR>>
I have started working on a merge notification system (python app) that would allow for an easy way to notify people of new merges and also offer them as a feel free to take. (Blueprint coming soon).<<BR>>
I would like to get more re-involved with the security team and work on getting more fixes into universe.<<BR>>
I would like to get more involved with the Ubuntu VCS initiatives that James Westby is working on.<<BR>>

I think MOTU is another step that will drive the learning process. I think communication is essential, and if not sure, I know I have the support of the whole team in fixing something the right way.

As a MOTU I would like to continue to learn and assist others. I would love to help with sponsorship work to encourage new contributors to keep at it.

So many people have helped me so far with sometimes silly questions, and I really do appreciate that.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Is this a trick question?  Ubuntu rocks!  

Seriously though, I think like with any large project there are some issues. I think we need more universe contributors and need to find a way to get and keep them. The OpenWeek and DeveloperWeek and Thursday sessions are great initiatives.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''
=== ScottKitterman ===
==== General feedback ====
My work with Stefan has been limited, but it's been very good.  He's jumped on one problem for me and solved it very nicely.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've used the dpkg-gensymbols wiki page that Stefan put together and found it quite helpful documentation.  I also asked for help updating an apparmor profile and even though he'd never done one before, he jumped in, learned how, and solved the problem.

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== James Westby ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored quite a lot of updates for Stefan, almost all without any problem whatsoever. When there have been issues they have been tricky things, in discussing solutions Stefan is quick to see the issues, and provides suggestions of his own as well as listening to mine.

I have been Stefan's mentor for the past few months, though I haven't been very good at it, and it's a bit silly anyway, as Stefan doesn't really need a mentor.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imview/+bug/306785 (This is the trickiest thing we worked on. There wasn't really a good solution, so after discussing it we went with the smallest changes for that upload).
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libev/+bug/315040 (Stefan can't really be criticised for the mistake that I made in the first place)
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libavg/+bug/315451
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gfax/+bug/332784
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wordpress/+bug/301340
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netenv/+bug/301350
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matchbox-window-manager/+bug/300435
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libev/+bug/315040

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I'm not sure there's anything in particular to improve on, Stefan just needs more practice at spotting the corner cases.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored around 5-10 packages maybe and I was very happy with the work that Stefan has been doing. He's quick to follow up on things and works well with the team. I did not work with him too closely, but what I've seen made me happy.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jspwiki/+bug/317147
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kiki/+bug/302016
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ncpfs/+bug/326893
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/curlftpfs/+bug/257618
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xtell/+bug/256584

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Just more experience.

=== Kees Cook (kees) ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored several of Stefan's security updates.  I've been very happy with his work.  I've found the changelogs appropriately verbose, the patches done well with minimal impact.  Exactly the kind of thing the Security Team likes to see.  :)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wireshark/+bug/290716
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mplayer/+bug/212601
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mplayer/+bug/279030
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bugzilla/+bug/281915

==== Areas of Improvement ====
No show-stoppers come to mind.  I would perhaps advice slightly more testing on stable releases when doing security updates.  Beyond that, I've been very happy with the quality of the work.

=== Jamie Strandboge (jdstrand) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored several of Stefan's security updates. He is thorough, responsive and learns quickly. Initial packaging needed work, but each time he has gotten better, so much so that I feel very good having him as a regular contributor for security updates. :) 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mon/+bug/285100
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lasso/+bug/317181
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sabre/+bug/283446
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mpg123/+bug/370031

==== Areas of Improvement ====
None that I can think of. Hopefully he will continue to help with universe security updates! :)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
