{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My name is Stefan Englert, CEO of intraDAT in Germany. We're doing Linux business since 1997 and established and developed VShop, a C++ based e-commerce suite for Linux.

Our Focus is setting up and running linuxbased webservers, supporting our customers running their own rootservers and developing web-applications.

We'll support you in any questions which are in our competences concerning Ubuntu Linux, don't hesitate to contact us.
Region Rheingau between Wiesbaden and Koblenz.

==== German translation: ====

Mein Name ist Stefan Englert, Geschäftsführer der intraDAT. Wir sind seit 1997 im Linuxumfeld tätig und sind Initiator und einer der Entwickler von VShop, einer E-Commerce Suite für Linux auf C++ basis.

Unser Fokus sind der Betrieb von Webservern auf linuxbasis, Support für unsere Kunden und Ihre Server im Serverbereich. In der Entwicklung sind wir auf die Erstellung von datenbankgestützten Webanwendungen spezialisiert.

Für Fragen rund um Ubuntu Linux einfach mit uns Kontakt aufnehmen. wir sind im Rheingau ansässig, zwischen Wiesbaden und Koblenz.

==== Contact: ====

Web: <nowiki>[[http://www.intradat.com/]]</nowiki> 

E-Mail: senglert@intradat.de

Phone: +49 (0) 6723 - 888 99 72
