{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

My name is Stefano Candori and I'm an italian Computer Engineering student and open-source enthusiast.
I'm also an agonist swimmer and in my sparetime when I don't hack on something I play the guitar or I ride my bike.
I use and promote Ubuntu from the 7.10 version.

== Contact ==

 {*} '''E-Mail:''' stefano dot candori at gmail.com or scandori at gnome.org

 {*} '''IRC:''' cando_

 {*} '''Website:''' http://devcando.wordpress.com

 {*} '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cando]]</nowiki>

 {*} '''Facebook:''' http://www.facebook.com/stefano.candori

 {*} '''Twitter:''' http://www.twitter.com/devcando

== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ==
My work and interests are mostly focused on the Unity project and on Ubuntu integration with Zeitgeist. 
 {*} Developer of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/activity-log-manager|Activity Log Manager]]</nowiki>

 {*} Unity testing, bug reporting and fixing (#688407,#683466,#692444,#703411,#718185 and others) and so I was an administrator of the old Unity bitesizers team in Launchpad!

 {*} Contributions to the MeMenu project (support for Emesene2 chat client).

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~cando|Translations]]</nowiki>

 {*} Support in <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/7254/stefano-candori|AskUbuntu]]</nowiki>

 {*} Support in irc channels and italian forums

==== Upstream ====

 
At the moment I'm the main developer and maintainer of Gnome Activity Journal. I'm one of the main developer behind the Zeitgeist Activity Log Manager project and I'm also an active developer of some of the Zeitgeist dataproviders. I'm a GNOME foundation member since March 2012.

Here's a list of all project i've worked for so far:

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gnome-activity-journal| Gnome-Activity-Journal]]</nowiki> Maintainer and Developer

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/activity-log-manager|Activity Log Manager]]</nowiki> Developer

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/zeitgeist-dataproviders| Zeitgeist Dataproviders]]</nowiki> Developer

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/emesene|Emesene]]</nowiki> Developer

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://github.com/emesene/emesene | Emesene2 ]]</nowiki> Developer
