{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Stefan Bader, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Stefan Bader
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~stefan-bader-canonical
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/StefanBader
|}

== Who I am ==
I currently live in Germany and am employed by Canonical as a Kernel Engineer. I am currently acting as the interface between the kernel and the server team and contact for all kernel (or related) issues that the server team brings up. Also, I am now doing all the Xen packaging for Ubuntu. Before that I was doing the maintenance of the released kernel trees. And before joining Canonical I was working for IBM as a kernel developer on the zSeries (S/390) architecture.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started with Linux around 1993 (version 0.99 patchlevel 14) with kernel compiles as sort of a requirement. After some less intense involvements on other UNIX platforms I joined the mainframe development in 2000. There the main distributions were Redhat and Novel/SUSE. I joined Canonical in January 2008 and have since then dived into the Ubuntu/Debian way of work.

=== My involvement ===
* Member of the Canonical Kernel Team since January 2008
* Coordination and maintenance of all stable kernel releases
* Working on server/cloud related issues and maintaining Xen in Ubuntu.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Kernel maintenance for Dapper, Gutsy, Hardy and Intrepid
* CVE triaging and upload preparations
* Working on kernel bugs
* Working with the kernel team community (IRC and mailing list)
* Helping in bringing back Xen host support into Ubuntu and ensuring Xen guest can be managed as simply as KVM guest from virt-manager.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Spend more time on open kernel bugs

== Plans for the future ==
* Try to reduce the delta we got for Xen between Debian and Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Having to say "won't-fix" in the knowledge of that sometimes being better than to regress for others.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
