{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Software in the main repository can only include build depends, depends and recommends on other software located in the main repository.<<BR>>
If it requires a some software located elsewhere, a MIR (MainInclusionRequest) must be filed, or the other software must be modified to not require that software.
You can use Suggests to suggest a package located in another repo (like universe) - as Suggests does not install automatically.

Currently LP has a problem with BZR stacked branches. The following steps can fix it.

<pre>
python
import bzrlib.branch
b = bzrlib.branch.Branch.open('bzr+ssh://bazaar.launchpad.net/~username/treename')
b.set_stacked_on_url('/~teamname/originaltreename')
</pre>

To check for a specifc Depend
<pre>
checkrdepends -b libcgi-pm-perl intrepid
</pre>

When building for PPA - use debuild -S -sa<<BR>>

In this example the "-" means ignore error. -$(MAKE) distclean (its generally better to trap specific error)<<BR>>
diff -Nurp when making patches<<BR>>

Pbuilder for me didnt show debconf questions when running it with --login.<<BR>>
I had to edit .pbuilderrc and add one of the following (dialog recommended)<<BR>>
<pre>
</pre>

==== SRU ====

Dont open a new bug for SRU requests - create an SRU request from an existing bug. Ensure that duplicates are linked to the master bug.<<BR>>

Ensure that you close the SRU request with the changelog - if done this way, it will close the original bug also!

Manually wget each portion of the source package (yuck), or you can use pull-lp-source (from the ubuntu-dev-tools binary package), or you can use dget (in devscripts) or dgetlp (in ubuntu-dev-tools)
if you have a deb-src line for jaunty universe, you can just `apt-get source package
