{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Stefan Bader, apply for per-package upload rights for virtualization related packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Stefan Bader
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~smb
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/StefanBader
|}

== Who I am ==
I currently live in Germany and am employed by Canonical as a Kernel Engineer. I am currently acting as the interface between the kernel and the server team and contact for all kernel (or related) issues that the server team brings up. Also, I am now doing all the Xen packaging for Ubuntu. Before that I was doing the maintenance of the released kernel trees. And before joining Canonical I was working for IBM as a kernel developer on the zSeries (S/390) architecture.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started with Linux around 1993 (version 0.99 patchlevel 14) with kernel compiles as sort of a requirement. After some less intense involvements on other UNIX platforms I joined the mainframe development in 2000. There the main distributions were Redhat and Novel/SUSE. I joined Canonical in January 2008 and have since then dived into the Ubuntu/Debian way of work.

=== My involvement ===
* Member of the Canonical Kernel Team since January 2008
* Coordination and maintenance of all stable kernel releases
* Working on server/cloud related issues and maintaining Xen in Ubuntu.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Kernel maintenance for Dapper, Gutsy, Hardy and Intrepid
* CVE triaging and upload preparations
* Working on kernel bugs
* Working with the kernel team community (IRC and mailing list)
* Helping in bringing back Xen host support into Ubuntu and ensuring Xen guest can be managed as simply as KVM guest from virt-manager.

=== Things I could do better ===
* Spend more time on open kernel bugs

== Plans for the future ==
* Try to reduce the delta we got for Xen between Debian and Ubuntu.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Having to say "won't-fix" in the knowledge of that sometimes being better than to regress for others.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Andy Whitcroft (~apw) ===

==== General feedback ====
I have worked with Stefan for a number of years on the kernel, he has
always proved to be reticent to take risks and quick to question both
others and himself; all of which is a positive when dealing with change
to core packages with high regression risk.

Over the last cycle or so he has been taking more and more responsibility
for xen and other virtualisation related packages.  This has included
taking on the CVE burden for these packages, including taking a request
for MRE for xen through the techboard to acceptace.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

His work has helped us achieve delivery of Xen 4.4 into 14.04 LTS
which will simply maintenance there.  During this work I have reviewed
and sponsored a number of Xen packages as well as ancillary packages
such as a libvirt.  I have found his work to be of high quality, and he
reponsive to criticisms of his work.  Recently these criticisms has these
have dropped to the level of nits.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Stefan tends to hold back when things are good enough, looking for
perfection.  He could do to trust himself more and push forward.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1
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=ii+B
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

=== Serge Hallyn (~serge-hallyn) ===

==== General Feedback ====

Stefan is knowledgeable, meticulous, very careful, happy to
seek and always quick to respond to feedback.

==== Specific examples of working together ====

I've worked with Stefan mainly on libvirt (where he has done
great work mainly with xen) and finding kernel bugs relating
to kvm and namespaces.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.14 (GNU/Linux)

iQEcBAEBAgAGBQJTb3gmAAoJEHmllQITXQdF6vsH/jI/XiFw+Xhc3p4hRS1eM/kW
xE5Wpdm0dcYUgeCnv4FOVdCa9Si5Qucfjiz2cBljH2GMnN1kksO+knADFc7TN2dM
ENSnZqD3i8zw9QB7LvSJ7b5sQ3Zq2u2GD9/I3ksnloIXL9glIgT0V3t7IGYADuVC
E8DAkewPYkq77lZjS3VPdGWS5ZY7fwD2k9PTlJE+Kn/fK3rIvn41pHw8jV/2o5+l
8AFpoucnknHCBYHcHsZ2HrYCsJr/7x2b+zmm2z3WclqKROiPjMJCfywWlyMw4HOp
DfFJ0L3knNh5X8J6P3bFX+9qD1ud3tiA0KshZpGmj/3Nmv7ZfiWUPztgF6iB2JI=
=ww4c
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Adam Conrad ===
==== General feedback ====
Rather than write my very own endorsement, I think I'll just say "ditto" to Andy's here.  We often tag-team on reviewing smb's uploads, and he's come a long way in the least few years.  The "Virt Packageset", rather than straight core-dev was partially my idea, as I'm not sure Stefan needs full core-dev to upload, essentially, the same five packages over and over, but from a skills perspective, I wouldn't hesitate to say he *could* be a core-dev, just that he doesn't need to be.  From that POV, I think the PPU rights for Xen/qemu/libvirt and other ancilliary bits that we find sit well in that packageset seems to be a slam-dunk to me.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
