{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Stefan Potyra ==

** Email:   * IRC-nick: sistpoty
** I'm a MOTU and core-dev (and sadly too inactive recently)

=== About me ===
I am 34 years old and am working at Elektrobit Automotive GmbH in Erlangen. My interests are games, music, linux, python and many more.
I've assembled some knowledge about compture architecture, hardware design and virtualisation techniques. Due to my work I also have good experience with operating systems in the automotive domain.

=== Experience with FOSS ===
I had first contacts with linux when I started university back in 1998. From then on I used different linux-distributions like suse, red hat, debian (which I used for a very long time) and now maverick (since breezy), again side-by-side installed with debian/unstable, as I'm active nowadays on both projects.

On my study thesis, my diploma thesis and now my PhD thesis as well, I have worked on the project <nowiki>[[http://www.faumachine.org|FAUmachine]]</nowiki>.

In the meantime, I hold PhD for computer science.

==== Packages by me ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Status
| Notes
|-
| min12xxw
| hardy/main
| I maintain it in Debian as well
|-
| trigger-rally
| hardy/universe
| maintained in Debian games team now
|-
| trigger-rally-data
| hardy/universe
| maintained in Debian games team now
|-
| faucc
| jaunty/universe
| also maintained in Debian, I'm part of upstream
|-
| fauhdlc
| jaunty/universe
| also maintained in Debian, I'm part of upstream (actually I wrote almost every loc, so blame me *g*)
|-
| faumachine
| jaunty/universe
| also maintained in Debian, I'm part of upstream
|}

==== Teams ====
** <nowiki>[[MOTUGames]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[MOTUUncommonProgrammingLanguages]]</nowiki>
** member of <nowiki>[[http://alioth.debian.org/projects/pkg-games/|Debian Games Team]]</nowiki>, it's always good to give back Ubuntu packages to Debian.
** former member of motu-sru team
** former member of motu-swat team
** former member of ubuntu-release
** for Debian, I have the status of Debian Maintainer

==== Other things ====
** I wrote <nowiki>[[REVU]]</nowiki> together with ReinhardTartler. Development gladly got picked up by <nowiki>[[RainCT]]</nowiki>.
** wrote a little tool to handle merges workflow using the MoM database. Luckily due to MoM improvements and nowadays bzr merges its no longer needed.

CategoryHomepage
