{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm an Ubuntu and Debian user, sysadmin, and developer.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/stefanor|Launchpad page]]</nowiki> (you can find contact details here)
* <nowiki>[[http://tumbleweed.org.za/|Home page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/StefanoRivera|Debian wiki page]]</nowiki>
* IRC: tumbleweed on freenode, oftc, and irc.atrum.org

I am a fairly inactive Ubuntu core-dev, and am a <nowiki>[[ReleaseTeam|Ubuntu Release Team]]</nowiki> member.
I can generally be found hanging out in #ubuntu-motu, but tend to mostly lurk, these days.
I have an interest in Python-related packages and thus experience with the related packaging tools.

Elsewhere in the distrosphere, I am a <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=stefanor&ubuntu=yes|Debian Developer]]</nowiki>.
In Debian, I mostly concentrate on Python-related packages, and am a member of the <nowiki>[[Debian-PythonModulesTeam|Debian Python Modules and Applications Teams]]</nowiki>.
I will happily sponsor uploads of Python Modules or Applications in Debian, for Ubuntu Developers (or non-Python packages, for that matter).
I also occasionally serve as an Application Manager for developers coming through the <nowiki>[[https://nm.debian.org/|New Maintainer process]]</nowiki>.

When I'm not playing with Linux distributions, I play as an upstream developer for <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/ibid|Ibid]]</nowiki> - a horrifically-overfeatured, but easy to write plugins for, IRC/Jabber/XMPP/etc bot.

If it matters, in the real world, I'm hacking on Deployment systems at <nowiki>[[http://yola.com/|a not quite so little any more start-up in Cape Town]]</nowiki>.
