{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/sheepeatingtaz/|Sheepeatingtaz]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''sheepeatingtaz''' on ''irc.freenode.net'' or ''irc.thisishull.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.sheepeatingtaz.co.uk/blog]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===

I'm a 23 year old from <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goole|Goole]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Riding_of_Yorkshire|East Riding]]</nowiki> in the   <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UK|UK]]</nowiki>. I've been an active user of FLOSS since Mid 2004, and have run a Linux desktop since Hoary, and help out testing new stuff whenever I can.

I'm currently running Ubuntu Gutsy on my laptop, and Ubuntu Feisty on my desktop.

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===

==== Support ====

* I try to help out with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+tickets|Support]]</nowiki> tickets. At the moment, I seem to be learning more than I'm passing on, but I hope to be able to pass on more as time goes on.
* A member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam|UK LoCo team]]</nowiki>. I'm active on the #ubuntu-uk irc channel, and try to help on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-uk|Ubuntu-uk Mailing List]]</nowiki> whenever I can.

==== External Stuff ====

* I host one of several mirrors for <nowiki>[[http://lugradio.org/|LugRadio]]</nowiki> - A fortnightly British radio show that takes a relaxed, humorous look at Linux and open source.(Note: language may offend some.) This isn't something I do for Ubuntu, but they do talk about it a lot :)

=== Future Work ===

* I would like to get to a situation where every computer I have to use runs Linux, and I try to get as many people who will listen to switch to Ubuntu.
