{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



==== ABOUT ME ====
My name is Stephen -- Hey y'all. 

I was first introduced to UNIX/Linux when I was a Junior attending a networking class using Sun Solaris UNIX at Northern Arizona University in 2011. I started using Ubuntu 10.4 soon after. I have taken classes at Mesa Community College to study Linux networking, system administration, and security. I am attending courses at LinuxAcademy.com to improve my understanding of Linux. I continue to volunteer my time with the local Linux groups. I currently use Ubuntu 14.04 in a virtual machine and also test Ubuntu 16.04.

==== CONTACT INFORMATION ====

* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~smelheim85

* Ubuntu Forums profile: https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1984400

* Ask Ubuntu profile: http://askubuntu.com/users/569893/stephen85

* GitHub account: https://github.com/search?q=smelheim85&type=Users&utf8=%E2%9C%93

==== CONTRIBUTIONS ====

* Member of the Ubuntu Arizona Local Community since 21 March 2015. (http://azloco.org/)
* Participates in the AZLOCO semi monthly install-fest.
* Attends the weekly AZLOCO IRC meetings. (#ubuntu-us-az on freenode.net)
* Research, organize, and present Linux and FOSS news at the weekly AZLOCO meetings.
* Organized AZLOCO's library on the Team server to be used by members of the LoCo and others.
* Translated Multi-System documentation from French to English for a re-spin project.

* Help install, setup, and promote the use of Ubuntu distributions in the local community.
* I assisted in setting up dual booting, Ubuntu, Mint and other distributions.

* Member of the Phoenix Linux User Group (PLUG) since 2011. (http://phxlinux.org)
* Attend monthly meetings
* Attend monthly Stammtisch and other social meetings hosted by PLUG
* Active on the IRC channel (#plugaz on freenode.net)

* Use Virtual Box to test different Linux operating systems and free and open source software.  

* I work for a VoIP provider and have a free account to use, I used Ekiga, an open source virtual phone applet based on the Ubuntu environment.  I was able to use open-source software for a on-line phone system and to make changes to that computer based phone system.

* Set up a Ubuntu server in my home to learn networking, Samba, and how to establish a VPN.

* Spend 4 hours a day on Ubuntu and AZLOCO IRC channels to provide assistance where I can.

* Participate on Ubuntu Forums when I can, on subjects that I know, to help other users and to learn more myself.

* I have developed an expertise Ubuntu and some of its distinct “flavors”  as well as in the following Linux Operating Systems:  Fedora 23, CentOS 5.6, 6, and 7.

==== FUTURE GOALS ====

* Continue to improve my knowledge of the differences between SystemD and StartUp.

* Continue to take on-line courses from LinuxAcademy.com to improve my knowledge of Linux.

* Continue to provide assistance during Team installfests and IRC meetings.

* Continue to live by the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.

==== TESTIMONIALS ====

