{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stevenmyers|Steven Myers]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=14347|XDevHald]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key''':
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x2FDCD0CA1C9280BCF396F81F224B009A59F239BA&op=index|stevenmyers]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| <nowiki>[[mailto:cauniversity@gmail.com|cauniversity@gmail.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| XDevHald on irc.freenode.net
|}

=== Summary ===

I started using Ubuntu when 4.10 first launched it's development. Been on the forums of Ubuntu since 2005 and loving the community a lot and support provided inside from each and every individual who performs their knowledge for others to feed from. My focus is to obtain information and provide at the best of my ability for the community whether it's through IRC or through the forums, or who knows maybe by word of mouth.

I report bugs when I get them and assist in general forum and IRC support to those who need it and enjoy the feeling at the end of accomplishment.

=== About Me ===

I am a 25 year old Married guy and blessed with a handsome 1 year old boy and residing in Charlotte, NC. I really enjoy linux and the Free Open Source it has to offer for those who want open doors to freedom with no registry keys attached. Most of my time is spent with my family and God, and the other is with of course my desktop (Ubuntu) which is constantly being updated and used for future developments by Ubuntu.

Love sports, Football, Ice & Street Hockey, Baseball, Swimming, Billiard Pool, Running, and general workouts daily to keep myself in shape. I have to stay busy because I get bored very easily and quickly but my wife and sone take care of that pretty well.

=== Participation ===

IRC, Wiki Development and Forum contribution is my main location of work and support given. Constantly working to do better and show my work to others on the web and world wide. The following places on Ubuntu Forums below is where you will find me and where I love to focus my attention on the most for Ubuntu lovers. To find me you can search on the IRC Free Node network in the #ubuntu+1, #ubuntu-beginners and #ubuntu-doc.

==== Community Forums ====

{*} '''Main Support Categories'''
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=331|General Help]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=333|Installation & Upgrades]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=329|Desktop Environments]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=336|Networking & Wireless]]</nowiki>

{*} '''Other Community Discussions'''
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100|Tutorials & Tips]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=13|Community Announcements & News]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=103|Ubuntu Testimonials & Experiences]]</nowiki>
 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11|The Community Cafe]]</nowiki>
