{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

Steven Harper has worked as an Application Developer since 1998, but first started writing code in 1985 when he was eight.

He lives in the UK, in Lancashire.

Steven spent four Years at Blackburn college and ended up (finally) with a Degree (1st) in Computer Science (BSC).

Since then he has worked for Freeserve/Wanadoo/Orange as a Developer/Senior/Principal Developer/Team Leader  working on many of the companies web based systems.

Steven currently resides in the Search team (http://search.orange.co.uk) and has done since about 2003.

Steven made his switch to Ubuntu in late 2006 and hasn't looked back

== Projects ==

When I first decided to start contributing back to Ubuntu, I read up on what was a good language to learn.  From this I decided that Python was the preferred programming language, hence my project being in Python.

I am dedicated to providing support for all my projects and still provide and check for Forum posts daily.

=== Easy Crypt ===

Steven is currently working on Easy Crypt a GUI for True Crypt, this has also been packaged by myself and has passed the REVU process by MOTU's and has been accepted onto Hardy Heron (8.04) - Easy Crypt is still in active development.

<nowiki>[[http://www.squeezedonkey.com/wiki/linux/index.php?title=EasyCrypt|Easy Crypt Wiki]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/easycrypt/0.2.1.14-0ubuntu1|Hardy Package on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stevenharperuk/+packages|Accepted Packages on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/easycrypt|Easy Crypt on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3598482|Ubuntu forum support Thread]]</nowiki>

=== USB Adsl Modem Manager ===

Modem Manager for Speedtouch (thomson) 330 modems: after setting up a few of these modems I realised they represent a huge portion of the ADSL modem used in the UK and Europe, I therefore choose to make a package to support this modem.  Because of license issues I am unable to submit the package to REVU, however the package has a large user-base and I see between 1 and 2 gigs of traffic to the DEB files each month.

<nowiki>[[http://www.squeezedonkey.com/wiki/linux/index.php?title=Main_Page|Modem Manager Wiki Page]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/usb-adsl-modem-manager|Project Page on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=585647|Ubuntu forum support Thread]]</nowiki>

=== Next Projects ===

I want to re-package True Crypt and submit it to REVU, this will enable me to give Easy Crypt a dependency on True Crypt, then it can be auto installed by Synaptic.  I am currently in talks with the the developers of True Crypt to confirm that they will be happy for me to do this; my goal is to get this past REVU well before Hardy.

I have had to learn Debian (Ubuntu) packaging to make my packages, there are very few complete, conclusive or entirely accurate guides (especially for Python packaging).  Maybe a set of webpages (or wiki pages) to take someone through the process, right from scratch, maybe  even to provide a skeleton of Python so its a full example. 

== Launchpad Teams ==

* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-universe-contributors|Contributors of packages for ubuntu universe]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~launchpad-beta-testers|Launchpad Beta Testers]]</nowiki>

== Skills ==

=== Operating Systems ===

* Solaris 7,8,9
* Linux Dsl
* Ubuntu & Xubuntu
* Windows 2000, Windows XP

=== Programming ===

* Java: J2EE, EJB, Struts, JSP, Log4J, Hibernate, JDBC, JSTL, JMS, Swing, Spring
* HTML, CSS, Javascript, Json, Ajax
* Ant, CVS, SVN, Eclipse
* Weblogic server 10, Jrun 3-4.1, Jetty, Tomcat, Apache, Glassfish
* Java, Python, PHP, Perl, Pascal, C, C++, Basic, Dbase, 6800 
* MYSQL, SQL2000, Oracle 9, Postgress
* Fast Datasearch 4, 4.5, 5
* Debian Packaging
* GTK+ coding
