{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

KDE PIM/Akonadi/Qt developer and Kubuntu user.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~steveire
|-
| IRC
| steveire
|-
| Email
| steveire@gmail.com
|-
| Website
| http://steveire.wordpress.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

Contributions to Ubuntu directly and indirectly have been made over several years. Primarily these contributions have been orientated towards making Kubuntu a first class development system for kde developers, improving the user experience with patches to KDE PIM and related technologies and with bug reports.

On KDE techbase I created Kubuntu specific documentation and maintained it for some time: http://techbase.kde.org/Getting_Started/Build/KDE4/Kubuntu_and_Debian

I also created the wiki page about how to use Project Neon to contribute to KDE: http://techbase.kde.org/Getting_Started/Using_Project_Neon_to_contribute_to_KDE

I delivered a session at UbuntuAppDeveloperWeek in October 2010 and blogged about it: http://steveire.wordpress.com/2010/10/05/grantlee-at-ubuntuappdeveloperweek/

As a KDE PIM developer I recommend KDE PIM patches for Kubuntu packages where relevant. I have also found/created several patches in other packages such as CMake.

I regularly file bug reports when I find them.     

=== Future Goals ===

Continue with making the Qt/C++ Developer experience better.

Continue recommending Kubuntu to others.

Quality testing for pending KDE PIM relevant releases/packages.

More new developer assistance through programs like developer week.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
