{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm a 22 year old male, living in Florida, (Soon to be North Carolina) and really enjoying Ubuntu Linux. I have used Ubuntu from it's second desktop release which is Hoary, and been using every version from there on up.

I enjoy helping users, solving issues as best as I can, though I may not be knowledgeable in areas others are, I do try to attend and help with as much knowledge I have to help better that user to help them get through the issue they're having.

I'm currently working on a way for myself to get more involved with the Ubuntu Community, such as launchpad.net and providing useful tools for the users in which will ease some stress from them knowing people are here to help and not just watch another bug get posted.

Ubuntu is deffinently a source to open source in all aspects of the network of users who define linux as a open project to a "Anything goes world". It's a free software distrobution and allows us linux lovers to enjoy what we know is best and simple for us, and that is "Free Software".

After runnin Ubuntu for a whole year as of January 22, 2006, I learned so much from network administration to backend administration on handling my box the way I want it. It's exciting everytime I go to run different codes and see how they process and what results I get, even if they aren't good.

Ubuntu has given me an open opportunity to see what it's like to have a free desktop of a world with no strings attached, and that's a great feeling to have when I login to my desktop.

Steve Myers
