{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Steve Stalcup
* vorian@ubuntu.com 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~vorian|Steve Stalcup LP profile]]</nowiki>

* Summary of your experience in Ubuntu:
** Started the Ohio LoCo team
** Staff on Ubuntu Forums for a while
** A founding member of the US Teams LoCo project
** Began contributing to development in 2007
** Became a MOTU in 2008
** Helped with several KDE releases 
** Active in sponsoring
** Focusing on REVU and Backports now
** Hope to become a Core-Dev soon

* What do you think you could bring to the Application Review Board?

I have been an Ubuntu user since early 2005.  I'll never forget having to jump through a few hoops just to get a proper firefox icon :)  Since that first installation, I still get excited every release cycle.  Even though I have been running the development version, it's still an awesome feeling to see the switch flip from developmental to stable.  

My journey over the past five years has given me a wide range of experience in many areas of the community.  I think that beyond the technical knowledge I have, or experience as a MOTU/Sponsor/Reviewer or whatever roll it is - I know how different areas of the community tick.  I think the community aspect would bring a very unique roll to the Application Review Board.
