{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== DRM updates for 2.6.32 kernel with drm from 2.6.33 ==

This page describes the history and methods of maintaining a continuing source of stable updates for the drm driver from the 2.6.33 kernel.

=== History ===

For the Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) release, the Ubuntu kernel team chose to release a hybrid kernel, consisting of the 2.6.32 kernel for everything except the drm drivers (/drivers/gpu/drm), and to backport the 2.6.33 drm drivers.

This was done in order to make use of many improvements in 2.6.33 drm, including support for Kernel Mode Setting and Intel Arrandale.

The Lucid release is a Long Term Support (LTS) release, which will be supported for three years from release. Other distributions made the same decision, and are using the same sort of combination with 2.6.33 drm drivers.

=== Upstream Stable status ===

The 2.6.32 kernel is being supported by Greg Kroah-Hartman as a long term stable kernel. Updates for this kernel will continue to be made available for some time.

The 2.6.33 kernel is not maintained as a long-term stable kernel by Greg, and has come to the end of support by him for stable updates.

=== Requirements ===

There is a need for Ubuntu and other distributions which still maintain kernels using the 2.6.33 drm drivers to have a source of updates which have been determined to be applicable.

=== Implementation ===

Stefan Bader of the Ubuntu kernel team <nowiki>[[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/smb/linux-2.6.32.y-drm33.z.git;a=summary|has set up a git repo]]</nowiki> which will serve as a continuing source of stable updates for the 2.6.32 kernel with 2.6.33 drm.  

This repo is made up of:

1. The upstream stable 2.6.32 tree
2. The upstream stable 2.6.33 drm subtree
3. Selective patches from upstream stable 2.6.34 drm subtree

Patches may be nominated for inclusion in this hybrid repo containing 2.6.33 drm stable updates. These patches must meet the criteria define here:

<pre>
NOTE
We need to define this - is it Greg's criteria or Ubuntu's kernel SRU policy? If it's Ubuntu's, does that place undue restrictions on submitters from other distros to create launchpad bugs and duplicate the problem in Ubuntu?

We also need to explain how to nominate patches for inclusion.
</pre>
