{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Steven Harms ==

Email: 
=== Ubuntu and I ===
I currently provide support on #ubuntu for a few hours a day, and triage a bunch of bugs (and submitted patches), and am working on becoming a member of MOTU.  Current launchpad karma is 96850 and rising (this is my testimonial).

Also have signed the Ubuntu Code of Conduct and am a Ubuntero.

=== My Launchpad Page ===
https://launchpad.net/people/sharms

=== MOTU Edgy Package Updates ===
* gpac
* motion
* ffmpeg2theora
* zsnes
* linphone
* moc
* dvr

=== MOTU Edgy Merges ===
* ccmalloc

=== Bugs ===
Work a lot on bug triage, and confirmation of bugs. (Moving bugs to need info, confirmed etc)

Submitted patches for bugs:
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/pilot-manager/+bug/35399
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/quarry/+bug/35772
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/pan/+bug/35360

Submitted usability issue that was fixed:
https://launchpad.net/products/gnome-volume-manager/+bug/32370

=== Wiki ===
Made corrections to Synaptics Touchpad

=== Forums ===
Posted guide for making back and forward mouse buttons work with Microsoft USB Explorer mouse 

=== IRC ===
Provide support to many people every day, while following the code of conduct

=== Plans and Ideas ===
I plan to get more involved in the packaging of software in the realm of MOTU as there is a good number of packages that need a caretaker.  Plan to keep the triage going as every bug I can prioritize means another dev can do something infinitely more important.

=== About Me ===
I am programmer and advocate of open source operating systems.  Graduated in August 2006 fron the University of Michigan.
...

----
CategoryHomepage
