{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This document assumes that you are working with and/or editing patches that
were saved to text files using "git format-patch"

=== The Header ===

The header contains:

''From lines''

''Date''

''Subject''

Of these, only the subject line should potentially require changes. It may have tags used for the mailing list in it, like [SRU][LUCID], etc.
remove those, but retain or add the following as appropriate

UBUNTU SAUCE:    This patch is never expected to go upstream

(pre-stable)     This is taken from the stable queue, and is expected to eventually be replaced by a patch from stable

(stable)         This patch comes from stable

An example is:

<pre>
From c01d47ae324bdec4a5ae279911518a9839c6d5c3 Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
From: Steve Conklin <sconklin@canonical.com>
Date: Thu, 29 Jul 2010 16:58:43 -0500
Subject: (pre-stable) drm/i915: make sure we shut off the panel in eDP configs
</pre>

=== BugLink ===

The buglink should be present, separated by an empty line before and after. The format is this:

<pre>
BugLink: http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/554569
</pre>

Note the capitalization of "BugLink", this must be correct. If there are more than one bug associated with this patch,
there should be a line for each one.

=== Explanation of any deviation from an upstream cherry-pick (if needed) ===

If the patch required backporting or changes, there should be a brief explanation here, seperated by empty lines before and after.

An example is:

<pre>
Small modifications needed because of a variable rename
</pre>

=== Free text ===

The free text is the text that was part of the original upstream commit. This shouldn't be changed.

=== History ===

At the end of the free text from the upstream commit will be any existing headers for ''Signed-off-by'', etc.
Headers should be added as needed to reflect the history of the patch for the Ubuntu kernel, along with
comments in parenthesis to describe the origin of the patch. These lines must be in chronological order.
''Acked-by'' and a final ''Signed-off-by'' are added
by the stable branch maintainer when committing to the Ubuntu tree.

The origin comment can be one of the following:

(cherry-picked from commit <sha1> <upstream repo name>)
(backported from commit <sha1> <upstream repo name>)

An example for a patch submitted to the ubuntu-kernel mailing list would be:

<pre>
Signed-off-by: Jesse Barnes <jbarnes@virtuousgeek.org>
Signed-off-by: Linus Torvalds <torvalds@linux-foundation.org>
(backported from commit 5620ae29f1eabe655f44335231b580a78c8364ea upstream)
Signed-off-by: Manoj Iyer <manoj.iyer@canonical.com>
</pre>

After acks on the ailing list, the stable maintainer will add the rest like this:

<pre>
Signed-off-by: Adam Jackson <ajax@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Eric Anholt <eric@anholt.net>
Signed-off-by: Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
(cherry-picked from commit d4e0018e3e4dd685af25d300fd26a0d5a984482e 2.6.34.y)
Signed-off-by: Manoj Iyer <manoj.iyer@canonical.com>
Acked-by: Tim Gardner <tim.gardner@canonical.com>
Acked-by: Brad Figg <brad.figg@canonical.com>
Acked-by: Steve Conklin <sconklin@canonical.com>
Signed-off-by: Steve Conklin <sconklin@canonical.com>
</pre>

The final Signed-off-by is by the person preparing it for commit it to the Ubuntu repo.

=== Complete Example ===

<pre>
From f71ea7e15129435a07c4e4d0bc08be19e2d0415c Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
From: Steve Conklin <sconklin@canonical.com>
Date: Thu, 29 Jul 2010 16:43:14 -0500
Subject: (pre-stable) drm/i915: make sure eDP panel is turned on

BugLink: http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/578673

Small modifications needed because of avariable rename.

When enabling the eDP port, we need to make sure the panel is turned on
after training the link.  If we don't, it likely won't come back after
suspend or may not come up at all.

For unknown reasons, unlocking the panel regs before initiating a power
on sequence is necessary.  There are known bugs in the PCH panel
sequencing logic, apparently this is one possible workaround.

Fixes https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=28739.

OriginalAuthor: Jesse Barnes <jbarnes@virtuousgeek.org>
Signed-off-by: Jesse Barnes <jbarnes@virtuousgeek.org>
Tested-by: "Paulo J. S. Silva" <pjssilva@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Eric Anholt <eric@anholt.net>
(backported from commit c9fcc5d269949a0fbd46ffbea6cc83741e61c05f upstream)
Acked-by: Brad Figg <brad.figg@canonical.com>
Acked-by: Steve Conklin <sconklin@canonical.com>
Signed-off-by: Steve Conklin <sconklin@canonical.com>
</pre>
