{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/scastle|scastle]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''xsc''' (''freenode'')
|-
| '''Email''':
| steve.castle@ub.untu.net
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hampton_Falls,_New_Hampshire|Hampton Falls, New Hampshire, USA]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
Senior at the University of New Hampshire Durham Campus.  

I'm obsessive about backing up everything and making sure that it is organized.

I'm a web application developer and use the following operating systems at work:
* Windows XP Professional
* Windows Server 2000
* Windows Small Business Server 2003
* Ubuntu 7.10
* Mac OS X (Tiger)

I use Ubuntu whenever possible ;)

=== Why Ubuntu? ===
I can thank McAffe for my transition to Linux, and specifically Ubuntu.  

I tried several LiveCDs (ranging from Slackware, PCLinuxOS, Fedora and Ubuntu).  I originally decided on Fedora Core 4.  Because the user interface seemed simple and it looked like it did everything I needed it to do.  Then an issue arose.  The very limited support on Fedora was the downfall.  I eventually wiped the hard disk clean (well, as clean as you can get a disk...), and installed Ubuntu 5.04.  I've been using Ubuntu ever since.

=== Ubuntu New Hampshire Team ===
The New Hampshire Ubuntu team started in August of 2007, with a collection of individuals from New Hampshire looking to get a LoCo team together.  All of us had various experience with Linux and computing in general, with the age range greater than I would have imagined (which is great!).

==== Personal Goals for the New Hampshire Team ====
* Start a Library (or other public meeting place) Series teaching programming using Linux
** I'd like people (other than those present) to be able to benefit from this series, so maybe something like ustream.tv (or an alternate technology) to be able to broadcast and archive for worldwide free use.
* Hold Ubuntu Info Sessions and InstallFests
* Support Linux in Educational Institutions
** The University of New Hampshire has a small desktop Linux offering (primarily Fedora Core 6), but most of the systems are Unix-based.
** I'd like to introduce Ubuntu at Lower-, Middle-, and High-School levels
* Support Programming in Educational Institutions
** Much like foreign languages are taught.
----
NewHampshireTeam
