{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Stéphane Graber ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Sherbrooke, QC, CA (EST)
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.stgraber.org]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~stgraber]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail:'''
| stgraber@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''Jabber:'''
| stgraber@stgraber.org
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| stgraber on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''GPG'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x64792D67&op=index|64792D67]]</nowiki>
|}

=== What do I do in Ubuntu? ===
 {*} Ubuntu/Canonical Foundations team member <<BR>>
 {*} Ubuntu Core Developer <<BR>>
 {*} Ubuntu Technical Board (TB) member <<BR>>
 {*} Ubuntu Developer Membership Board (DMB) member <<BR>>
 {*} Edubuntu Council member and one of the main developers <<BR>>
 {*} LTSP developer and maintainer in Ubuntu <<BR>>
 {*} Ubuntu Switzerland team leader (remotely as I now live in Canada) <<BR>>
 {*} Initial author and upstream for pastebinit, arkose, weblive and a few other projects <<BR>>
 {*} ... a few other things that you'll likely find on my LP page anyway ...

=== My work for Ubuntu ===
After almost 3 years working on deployment of Ubuntu in education and on LTSP at Revolution Linux, I joined Canonical to focus on Ubuntu even more. I'm now working as a Foundations team member on installer issues, networking (mostly IPv6), containers (LXC, arkose) and the installer (ubiquity, d-i). Recently I've also been involved in upstart and its related projects (libnih and mountall).
I'm also one of the two main Edubuntu contributors and an upstream developer of quite a few tools that we ship in Edubuntu (including LTSP).

Other than that I'm active in a few other teams as listed above.

An up to date list of projects I'm working on (most of them outside of my day to day work) can be found at: http://www.stgraber.org/projects/

=== Interests ===

When it comes to computer science I've got pretty varied interests and knowledges.
I'm initially a network guy who's been managing some pretty complex networks (think IPv6, BGP, IPSEC, dual-stack firewalls, high availability and clustering) but I've also been doing quite a lot of development over the years and am upstream to quite a few software.

I can just as well work on relatively low level stuff (plumbing) than on GUI (gtk/qt mostly) or web interfaces. A good example of a big mix of all of that is !WebLive as it's a service to offer full desktops over the network using containers, NX, custom GUIs and a service managing all the accounts and offering an API while having to scale quite well.

Over the last 3 years I grew an interest for application and system containers, initially using OpenVZ and then becoming involved with the LXC guys and working on tools to make them easier to use (arkose).

I also have quite a bit of interest for the use of Ubuntu in education through the work I do in maintaining Edubuntu and other tools that are heavily used in education such as LTSP and iTalc.

=== What else ? ===
I'm 23 (in 2013, in case I forget to update the page :)), living since August 2008 in Sherbrooke, QC, CA. I used to live in Bevaix, NE, CH and did my studies there before moving for work to Canada.

=== Contacting me ===
You can usually find me on irc.freenode.net as "stgraber" or mail me at one of the e-mails from my Launchpad profile.

=== Note ===
I tend to forget to update this page, if you thin it's completely outdated (it used to be), just poke me :)

Look at my Launchpad profile for fresher information.
