{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Stéphane Graber ==
=== Introduction ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Sherbrooke, QC, CA (EST)
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.stgraber.org]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~stgraber]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail:'''
| stgraber@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''Jabber:'''
| stgraber@stgraber.org
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| stgraber on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Linux UID#'''
| <nowiki>[[http://counter.li.org/cgi-bin/runscript/display-person.cgi?user=320369|320369]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x48C186EC&op=index|48C186EC]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Summary of your experience in Ubuntu ===
I've been an Ubuntu user almost since the beginning, starting with Warty Warthog. Then started contributing with Dapper mostly in the QA team.
I'm currently an Ubuntu Core Developer who's part of the EMEA membership board, the Developer Membership Board and I'm one of the two release managers of Edubuntu and part of the Edubuntu council.

Most of my work nowadays is maintaining LTSP in Ubuntu for which I'm both maintainer and upstream, working on Edubuntu to ensure we have something that works, looks good and works well. The rest of the time, I try to help wherever I can, mostly with testing and server bug fixing.

=== What do you think you could bring to the Application Review Board? ===
I believe I have a very good vision of the Ubuntu project, what we currently ship and what our users are using.
I have a quite good packaging experience as well as being upstream for a few projects and therefore having relatively decent programming skills that might be handy when checking what an application exactly does.

As part of the time I spend on Edubuntu, I have to review educative applications, choose what's good to include on our DVD and to have on all of our users' desktop, so I'm already a bit used to that process ;)

For more information on me, feel free to ping me on IRC and read my full Ubuntu wiki page (not too outdated hopefully): https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stgraber
