{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
<<BR>>
Hello, I'm a 21 years old student from Belgium. This year I will receive my Master of engineering at KAHO Sint-Lieven in Ghent. I will continue my studies at the University in Ghent for another two years to receive a complementary Master of engineering in computer science. 
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
I am very excited about Ubuntu and free software.
<<BR>>
I can't wait to help the community.
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Currently running Ubuntu Feisty Fawn on desktop and Xubuntu Feisty Fawn on laptop. 
<<BR>>

=== Experience ===
<<BR>>
Experience with JAVA, Assembler, XML, XSD, C#, Latex, relational databases, Debian GNU/Linux
<<BR>>
Already experimented with ftp, dns, mail, svn, wiki server on Ubuntu Edgy Edge Server edition.
<<BR>>
Basic experience with C, C++, Bash scripting, Suse...
<<BR>>

=== Current work ===
<<BR>>
Currently learning about packaging, patching, fixing bugs... with very good help of my mentor: Emmet Hikory. 
<<BR>>
Thanks for all of that, Emmet!!

=== Future work ===
<<BR>>
I hope I can do some good work for the community, but still to come.
<<BR>>
I would love to learn more about kernel development, kernel modules, drivers...

=== Special thanks ===
<<BR>>
Emmet Hikory at the 1st place
<<BR>>
Everyone on IRC that helped me out (more then once)
<<BR>>
All the other contributers
