{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Username:
| stratus_ss
|-
| Linkedin:
| <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/pub/steve-ovens/26/a43/42|Steve on LinkedIn]]</nowiki>
|-
| Google+:
| <nowiki>[[https://plus.google.com/u/0/104247526273344482469/posts|Steve's Google+]]</nowiki>
|-
| OCForums:
| <nowiki>[[http://www.overclockers.com/forums/member.php?u=64345| stratus_ss]]</nowiki>
|}
=== About Me ===

I am a 30 year old Linux System Administrator from Ontario, Canada. I have been using Linux on a daily basis since 2006. I started with Gentoo then moved on to Ubuntu after compiling Gnome took my computer 3 days. While I work with RHEL/CentOS professionally, I use Ubuntu/Mint, CentOS and Arch on a regular basis at home.

I am always on the lookout for new open source technologies, and I am an active senior member at <nowiki>[[http://www.overclockers.com/forums/forumdisplay.php?f=25| Overclockers.com]]</nowiki>, as well as semi-active on <nowiki>[[http://forums.linuxmint.com/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=86844|Linux Mint Forums]]</nowiki>.

I have been looking for a way to get more involved besides writing articles about <nowiki>[[http://www.overclockers.com/kickstarter-and-game-development-highlighting-games-coming-to-linux-part-1| gaming on linux]]</nowiki>, or answering questions. Both of these are important, but I am hoping to get more hands on and contribute in a more meaningful way

As an aside, I am an Ubuntu Certified Professional, Red Hat Certified Engineer and an LPI Level 1 graduate. I enjoy python scripting and light programming and I dabble in C and Java as well.
