{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Sometimes, a program starts behaving errantly.  It gives incorrect output on its input, it doesn't print anything at all, or even hangs.  Under a Linux-based system, every userspace process has to interact with its environment through the kernel.  And it does this by invoking system calls.

Strace is a utility that intercepts and logs these system calls.  In this way, you can watch how a program interacts with the system, which is useful for tracking down behavioural issues.

== Creating strace output ==

 1. Make sure strace is installed.  <pre>
apt-get install strace
</pre>
 1. Start the program under control of `strace`: <pre>
strace -Ff -tt <program> <arguments> 2>&1 | tee strace-<program>.log
</pre>
# The program will start.  Perform any actions necessary to reproduce the crash
# Attach the complete output from strace, contained in strace-<program>.log, in your bug report.

== Using strace with already running programs ==

You may want to run strace on an already running program.  This could be because strace logs too many things before you can reproduce a crash.  Or, it could be because you are trying to find out what a program is doing in an infinite loop.

 1. Make sure strace is installed.  <pre>
apt-get install strace
</pre>
 1. Find the process ID of <program>: <pre>
pidof <program>
</pre>
 1. Start strace with the process ID: <pre>
strace -Ff -tt -p <PID> 2>&1 | tee strace-<program>.log
</pre>
# Perform any actions necessary to reproduce the bug.
# You may have to hit Control-C to get strace to detach from a running program.
# Attach the complete output from strace, contained in strace-<program>.log, in your bug report.
----
CategoryDebugging CategoryBugSquad
