{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:strigi-integration
* '''Packages affected''': strigi-applet, strigi-client, strigi-daemon

=== Summary ===

Integrate Strigi desktop search into Kubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

Desktop search is a hot technology and with Strigi we have the opportunity to use one of the best.  Strigi will be integrated into KDE 4 by default so we should be an early adopter.

=== Use Cases ===

Kirsty wants to find the essay she wrote last week, she searches in strigi applet and it pops up the file ready to open.

Gregor wonders if he still has a copy of his holiday photos.  Locate does not find it but strigi knows it is inside a .zip file he was sent in his e-mail.

=== Scope ===

Updating packages, moving packages to main, slight UI improvements.

=== Design ===

Update the strigi package to the new 0.5 release.  Separate libstreamanalyser into its own package so that it can be adopted by other search engines such as Tracker.

Include strigi in main and add to desktop seed, this needs a main inclusion report for strigi, clucene-core and wv.

Upstream have agreed to make some changes to the strigi applet, it should be a systray with a popup text field rather than a text field directly in the panel.  The applet should be changed to search for file contents as well as file names.

Replace the locate ioslave in Kubuntu with the strigi ioslave, this should be made the default search for KDE in kubuntu-default-settings.

=== Development ===

We will work with upstream to fix the following areas during Gutsy release cycle:

Start the daemon from an autostart file on login.  Add a dbus interface to turn off or throttle the indexer and have power manager trigger this when the computer is running on battery.  Add an index for system files which is updated through cron.  Stop the indexer from running on NFS or SMB mounts unless explicitly requested.

The autostart file should be fixed to play nicely with the tracker daemon to stop the two deamons indexing at the same time.

----
CategorySpec
