{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~philip-stuphi|stuphi]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''stuphi''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://stuphi.co.uk/
|}
=== About Me ===

I'm an old married father of two living in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hampshire|Hampshire]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UK|UK]]</nowiki>. I've been using Linux on the desktop for years and run a mix of Ubuntu desktops, laptop and server at home. Unfortunately, at work I am only able to use Ubuntu within <nowiki>[[http://www.virtualbox.org/|VirtualBox]]</nowiki>.

I installed Ubuntu as I wanted a system as stable as <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/|Debian]]</nowiki> with more frequent releases. When Linux was new to me, it was fun fiddling around and working out how things worked. Installing a <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/|Linux system from scratch]]</nowiki> was a real education. More recently, having a system that is solid and stable so that it just works has been more important.

=== Things I do ===

* Participate on the <nowiki>[[http://www.hantslug.org.uk/|Hampshire LUG]]</nowiki> mailing list.
* Participate on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-uk.org/|Ubuntu-UK]]</nowiki> mailing list.
* Contribute to <nowiki>[[http://www.openstreetmap.org/|Openstreetmap.org]]</nowiki>.

=== Future Work ===

* Get involved in the effort to test ISO's for Ubuntu

=== Room for Improvement ===

* Write at least one application that performs a useful (to me at least) function in 'C'.
* Convert one other person to want to use Ubuntu, or any other FOSS software.
