{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== How do I get a GUI in Ubuntu server? ==

=== Introduction ===

On a server you might find a web-based management tool, like Webmin to be much more useful than having a full blown Desktop environment such as  XFCE/Gnome/KDE on it. Most DE's do not have administrative GUIs for Apache, Bind, MySQL, etc. Webmin does all this and quite a bit more.

Most people recommend using <nowiki>[[eBox]]</nowiki> instead but it doesn't do a lot of what Webmin can. (yet, but I'm sure it will in the future.) So for those of you who like to live dangerously - read on!

=== Disclaimer ===

''This information is provided without warranty. Some people do not recommend Webmin for Ubuntu, though I personally have found it managable as a convenient addition to manually editing config files, NOT as a total replacement. As always I suggest you pay close attention to what you're doing and be careful.''

Visit Webmin: http://www.webmin.com

''This tutorial assumes you're using Ubuntu Server with no X.''

=== Known Issues ===

The main issues you will encounter involve Webmin not knowing the correct location of configuration files. See the "Module Config" of each Webmin module to troubleshoot or verify the location of configuration files. See the <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/search/index.php?group_id=17457&form_submit=Search&search_subject=1&search_body=1&type_of_search=forums&all_words=ubuntu&exact_phrase=&some_word=&without_words=&posted_by=&posted_date_start=&posted_date_end=|Webmin Forums]]</nowiki> for more help on this. 

== How to Install Webmin ==

=== Get Dependencies ===
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libnet-ssleay-perl libmd5-perl libauthen-pam-perl libio-pty-perl
</pre>

=== Get Webmin from Sourceforge ===
<pre>
wget http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/webadmin/webmin_1.430_all.deb
</pre>
''Use the above as an example, you should make sure you are getting the latest Webmin release from http://www.webmin.com. Alternatively, after you log into Webmin you can update from the "Webmin Configuration" menu.''

=== Install the Webmin package ===
<pre>
sudo dpkg -i webmin_[VERSION]_all.deb
</pre>
(replace [VERSION] with the complete version number of Webmin. (ex: 1.430)

=== Log In to Webmin ===

''Now you can log in to your computer by going to:''<pre>
https://ip.address.of.server:10000
</pre>

Log in using the first account that you created on your system, then you can manage other Webmin users.
