{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Sudip Mukherjee, apply for SRU Developer upload rights.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Sudip Mukherjee
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sudipmuk
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/sudipmuk/SRUDeveloperApplication
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.  (Though I will still need to wait for sponsors if the development release needs to be fixed)
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

I am a Kernel Engineer at my $dayjob and maintain few drivers in upstream kernel. I am also a DD since 2020. I started using Linux with Ubuntu 10.04 when I was at my previous $dayjob. But being an enduser at that time I was fairly happy with what I had and never had to poke anything in the system. But with my current $dayjob I started using Debian and had to work with different parts of the system, and as a result started contributing to Debian.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Since I started my Linux use with Ubuntu, so I always wanted to contribute to Ubuntu after I started contributing to Debian. But I was always confused with Ubuntu contributions process. While in Ubuntu Summit 2023, few friends spent time explaining me the process and why Ubuntu has its own bug reports and why they need fixing. And that was the start, my first Ubuntu contribution (a SRU to one of my package in Debian) started in Riga.

I like working on all kind of bugs, and which is why I like contributing to Ubuntu as there is no maintainer concept here and every package is team maintained. So, I can choose any of the bugs reported by users (there are thousands of new bugs).

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=sudipm.mukherjee%40gmail.com&sponsoree_search=email|My Uploads (sponsored)]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~sudipmuk-+uploaded-packages  | Launchpad Uploaded Packages]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[ https:--bugs.launchpad.net-~sudipmuk-+commentedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=ubuntu-sponsors&field.structural_subscriber=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on | Packages in Sponsors Queue ]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[ https:--qa.debian.org-developer.php?email=sudipm.mukherjee%40gmail.com | Debian Packages overview ]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===

I usually look for bugs in "universe" which has been reported by users, which sometimes leads me to fix the bug in Upstream, Debian and current development relesse. And, occassionally I will also look for FTBFS bugs in development release and merges (which I find quite interesting and liked the git-ubuntu workflow).

=== Things I could do better ===

It will be a huge list. But if I have to consider the list for the context of this SRU Developer application then I think I should spend more time/effort for the SRU test plan. I tend to give testplan which tests only the bug I am fixing in the SRU. And example will be #2029924, Robie asked to do some extra test as part of the verification and that failed. So, testplan is definitely something I need to do better.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

Continue to fix bugs in Universe. And possibly do more for the development release.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I said (in My Ubuntu story) that I like the concept of team maintained packages. But ironically, that is the triggger for the thing I like least in Ubuntu. During the course of all my bug hunting and SRUs I felt that packages in main gets immediate attention for any bug report but bug reports for packages in universe are neglected and left to rot.

An example will be #1876597, reported by multiple users in 2020. Even though the bug was fixed in Debian by 2021, but the Ubuntu bug was not fixed which I think is a bad impression on Ubuntu users who have spent their time to report the bug. So, overall this bug spent 4 years in Confirmed state and then spent 20 days in sponsors queue.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
