{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Sudip Mukherjee, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Sudip Mukherjee
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~sudipmuk
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/sudipmuk/CoreDevApplication
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to help in the transitions of main packages also.
* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

I am a Kernel Engineer at my $dayjob and maintain few drivers in upstream kernel. I am also a DD since 2020 and a MOTU since June, 2024. I started using Linux with Ubuntu 10.04 when I was at my previous $dayjob. But being an enduser at that time I was fairly happy with what I had and never needed to poke anything in the system. But with my current $dayjob I started using Debian and had to work with different parts of the system, and as a result started contributing to Debian.

== My Ubuntu story ==

Since I started my Linux use with Ubuntu, so I always wanted to contribute to Ubuntu after I started contributing to Debian. But I was always confused with Ubuntu contributions process. While in Ubuntu Summit 2023, few friends spent time explaining me the process and why Ubuntu has its own bug reports and why they need fixing. And that was the start, my first Ubuntu contribution (a SRU to one of my package in Debian) started at Ubuntu Summit 2023.

I like working on all kind of bugs, and which is why I like contributing to Ubuntu as there is no maintainer concept here and every package is team maintained. So, I can choose any of the bugs reported by users (there are thousands of new bugs).

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=sudipm.mukherjee%40gmail.com&sponsoree_search=email|My Uploads (sponsored)]]</nowiki>.

* <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~sudipmuk-+uploaded-packages  | Launchpad Uploaded Packages]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[ https:--qa.debian.org-developer.php?email=sudipm.mukherjee%40gmail.com | Debian Packages overview ]]</nowiki>

====== Merges (after MOTU) ======
* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/libpam-ccreds/+git/libpam-ccreds/+merge/471023

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/libappimage/+git/libappimage/+merge/470581

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/gnome-calls/+git/gnome-calls/+merge/469056

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/tang/+git/tang/+merge/468870

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/heartbeat/+git/heartbeat/+merge/468857

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/libscrypt/+git/libscrypt/+merge/468811

======= Merges (after MOTU) for main: =======

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/qrtr/+git/qrtr/+merge/469425

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/usb-modeswitch/+git/usb-modeswitch/+merge/469423

======= Merges (after MOTU) for main in sponsors queue: =======

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/libtraceevent/+git/libtraceevent/+merge/475368

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/flashrom/+git/flashrom/+merge/475369

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/xdp-tools/+git/xdp-tools/+merge/475371

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/python-django-compressor/+git/python-django-compressor/+merge/475376

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/paramiko/+git/paramiko/+merge/475452

* https://code.launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/ubuntu/+source/libinih/+git/libinih/+merge/475455

====== Syncs (After MOTU) ======
* https://launchpad.net/~sudipmuk/+synchronised-packages

======= Syncs (After MOTU) for main in sponsors queue: =======

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/2084911

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/2084918

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/2084920

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/2084921

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/2085669

====== Transition ======
* ace

* dlib

* eclipse-jdt-core

* libplacebo

* mapnik

* openmm

* recode

* tidy-html5

* uhd

* gnuradio

* synfig

* miniupnpc

=== Areas of work ===

I usually look for bugs in "universe" which has been reported by users, which sometimes leads me to fix the bug in Upstream, Debian and current development release. And, occassionally I will also look for FTBFS bugs in development release and merges (which I find quite interesting and liked the git-ubuntu workflow).

And, after becoming MOTU I also started helping in transitions. With MOTU permissions I can only help in triggering a rebuild of the packages in universe. For main, I have to ask someone. This is a snippet from my irc log:

<pre>
Jul 30 10:17:46 <sudip> LocutusOfBorg: I was looking at the tidy-html5 transition. Can you do the rebuild of php8.3 please.. its in main.. also I have not done libhtml-tidy-perl and libhtml-tidy5-perl as my local build failed, will check.
Jul 30 10:22:49 <LocutusOfBorg> sudip, rebuild php8.3   "new libtidy58"
Jul 30 10:22:50 <LocutusOfBorg> . 
Jul 30 10:23:19 <sudip> thanks LocutusOfBorg
</pre>

=== Things I could do better ===

* While doing the "merges", I should try to find out the LP bug reference of the delta (if not mentioned) and mention it in the merge and maybe try to improve the DEP-3 headers of the patch (if needed).

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Continue to find and fix bugs.

* Try to get more involved with Ubuntu development.

* Try to get involved in a change of seeds and maybe a MIR process atleast once. But being a non-canonical volunteer I doubt I will ever get the time and chance to do it.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think I have to say about SRU review time here. Sometimes, SRU review takes awfully long time. I know SRU team members are doing their best and sometimes they have to attend something non-SRU but more urgent so I guess we have to live with it.

----
== Comments ==

I've known Sudip for many years (more than 5 at least), when I started pretty much mentoring him in Debian.  I consider him a person taking his job as an Ubuntu developer very seriously, who knows what he's doing when he does things.  He completely deserves being a core-dev!  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mapreri]]</nowiki> 

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
