{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== 50,000 feet ===
Content is king.  Success depends on achieving three goals:
1. Developing and Distributing activities is easy.
2. Creating and distributing content is easy.
3. Deploying and teaching with Ubuntu Sugar Remix is cost and time effective.

=== 40,000 feet ===
Making Sugar successful depends on creating an ecosystem of partners who benefit from and contribute to a Sugar ecosystem.

=== 30,000 feet ===
Developing this ecosystem depends on engaging and fostering three target customer groups:
1. Deployers - Organisations interesting in deploying Sugar.
2. Developers - Organisations interested in developing Sugar.
3. Authors - Organisations interested in creating content and curriculum based on sugar.

=== 20,000 feet ===
Ubuntu Sugar remix and Ubuntu Sugar Remix Live must 'just work' in common deployment scenarios.

=== 10,000 feet ===

=== Current ===
We have shifted all development to the upcoming 10.04.  This release is based on ubuntu 10.04 and Sugar 0.88.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Week'''
| '''Date'''
| '''Task'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> November 2009
|-
| 6
| December 10th
| 
| <#FFFFCC>
| '''Alpha 1
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> January 2010
|-
| 11
| January 14th
| 
| <#FFEBBB>
| '''Alpha 2'''
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> February 2010
|-
| 16
| February 18th
| <!> Upgrade Testing begins, <!> Rebuild Test
| <#FFCCCC> /!\ '''FeatureFreeze'''
| 
|-
| 17
| February 25th
| 
| <#FFCCCC>
| '''Alpha 3'''
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> March 2010
|-
| 20
| March 18th
| <!> Kernel/Userspace Sync Point
| <#E47A7A> /!\ '''Beta1Release'''
| '''Beta 1'''
|-
| 22
| April 1st
| 
| <#E47A7A> /!\ '''Beta2Freeze'''
| 
|-
| 23
| April 8th
| 
| <#E47A7A> /!\ '''Beta2Release'''
| '''Beta 2'''
|-
| 25
| April 22nd
| 
| <#E47A7A> /!\ '''ReleaseCandidate''', /!\ '''LanguagePackTranslationDeadline'''
| '''ReleaseCandidate'''
|-
| 26
| April 29th
| 
| <#E47A7A> /!\ '''FinalRelease'''
| {*} '''Ubuntu Sugar Remix 10.04'''
|}

=== Upstream Roadmap ===
The Sugar Labs roadmap is <nowiki>[[http://sugarlabs.org/go/ReleaseTeam/Roadmap|here]]</nowiki>.

The Ubuntu Road map is <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule|here]]</nowiki>
