{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Notice ===
As of 2013-03, Ubuntu does not have a stable version of Sugar in the Ubuntu repositories.
Until this is fixed, Sugar can be installed as follows:
1. use Sweets-distribution on Ubuntu, recommended for Ubuntu 
     http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Community/Distributions/Sweets#Ubuntu_and_its_derivates
2. use a -VirtualBox- virtual appliance, Ready to import into -VirtualBox-
     http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Creation_Kit/sck/Sugar-in-Virtualization
3. use the unstable version 0.90 of Sugar, from the Ubuntu repositories, compatible with any version of Ubuntu, see below,

=== Look at this First:Introduction to the sugar interface ===
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Creation_Kit/sck/Introduction_to_Sugar_Interface
An explanation of the Sugar Desktop via a linked set of wiki pages of annotated screen-shots.

==== Use sweets-distribution with Ubuntu ====
'''NEW''' 02/03/2011 alsroot and satellit

This is <nowiki>[[Dextrose]]</nowiki> , thus more than just Sugar 0.94, it contains several features that still are not committed to the trunk + bug fixes from 0.90+.

* Link :http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Ubuntu
Updated 03/23/2013

==== How to install Sugar 0.90 on Ubuntu 11.10 ====

*** click on Ubuntu Software Centre,
*** search for Sugar,
*** click on sugar-emulator-0.90,
*** click on Install, 

Sugar will be downloaded and installed.

To start Sugar, click on Dash, then search for Sugar.
[edit] How to install Sugar 0.90 on Ubuntu 11.04

*** click on Applications, then Ubuntu Software Centre,
*** search for Sugar,
*** click on Install, 

Sugar will be downloaded and installed.

To start Sugar, click on Applications, then Education, then Sugar.
[edit] 

=== Notes ===
To turn off screensaver and power management:

HINT:CAPS lock does not always work in sugar-terminal so use shift key to get lower case.

 terminal:
 xset s off
 xset -dpms

=== Getting Ubuntu Sugar Remix ===
Note: '''Remix is Depreciated''' 

'''Step 1''': Download Ubuntu Sugar Remix CD image

 The CD images are available from

 http://people.sugarlabs.org/dfarning/
  Latest:USR-i386-20100922.iso  Ubuntu 10.10  "Maverick Meerkat"  -09/24/2010

Hint; to pull in the latest updates including activities:

<ctrl> <alt> f5 will get terminal 

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade  

Use this browser '''Surf-115.xo''': http://people.sugarlabs.org/Tgillard/Surf-115.xo (sugar-browse does not work)

 Hint to install Surf: download Surf-115.xo to a USB (outside of sugar); Start USR Insert this USB and drag-drop it into the USR sugar-journal.
 
Sugar is available as menu item Education/Sugar;  but it is not full screen and not all of the Sugar screen is visible.

 For '''Full Screen''' right click on menu item and save to desktop, then open properties of icon on desktop and   

 change command to "sugar-emulator -f" (full screen option) Start Sugar from this icon...

'''Step 2''': Burn your Ubuntu Sugar Remix CD
 After the ISO file has finished downloading, you will have to burn the file to a CD. The ISO file will most likely require a special application to burn. Click the link below to find detailed instructions. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | How to burn a CD image]]</nowiki>.

'''Step 3a''': Install Ubuntu Sugar Remix
 When the CD is ready, simply put it in your CD drive, restart your computer and follow the instructions that will appear on your screen. Don't forget that you can create more copies and pass the CD to as many people as you like.

'''Step 3b''': For netbooks without a CD
 Use System/Administration/"USB Startup Disk Creator" in a Ubuntu Desktop to Make an Installer USB. Use this USB to install USR on your netbook.

=== Installing Ubuntu Sugar Remix on Ubuntu 10.10 ===
On Ubuntu 10.10, the ubuntu-sugar-remix package is available in Universe, so you do not need to add the apt repository to install it. Just:

<pre>
  sudo apt-get install ubuntu-sugar-remix
</pre>

and you're good to go.

=== Getting involved in Ubuntu Sugar Remix ===
Ubuntu Sugar Remix is Open Source Learning tool that is built by the <nowiki>[[UbuntuSugarRemix-GettingInolved|Ubuntu Sugar Remix]]</nowiki> (also <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sugarteam|launchpad team]]</nowiki>), <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>(TM), and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Welcome_to_the_Sugar_Labs_wiki|Sugar Labs]]</nowiki>^®^ communities.

We communicate primarily with this mailing list: ubuntu-sugarteam@lists.ubuntu.com

Join us!
=== What is Ubuntu Sugar Remix? ===
The vision for the Ubuntu Sugar Remix is to provide students preK to 12 with a learning platform.  We envision younger children using the Award wining <nowiki>[[http://www.sugarlabs.org | Sugar]]</nowiki> Learning Platform and allowing older students to move to a standard Ubuntu desktop as they become cognitively ready, with an easy settings change.

USR will work on a wide variety of hardware, either installed on the hard drive or on a portable storage device, such as a USB stick.  In our vision of the future USR will interact easily and seamlessly with an open source server environment (such as the XS project from Sugar) to provide backup and portfolio support (e.g. Mahara), collaboration, educational resources (e.g. local copies of Wikipedia) , Learning Management System (e.g. Moodle) and Student Information System (e.g. SchoolTool) types supports.

USR will allow students to assist students in accessing the internet and all its educational resources but will also allow them to work and learn in situations where they do not have internet access.
=== Using Ubuntu Sugar Remix ===

** <nowiki>[[USRjabberServer | Setting the jabber server]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Activities | List of Working - Non-working Activities]]</nowiki>

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
