{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Projects ===
Ubuntu Sugar Remix is a tightly focused project.  Our goal is to combine the work of two upstream projects into a single user friendly product that will be used and supported in schools around the world.  Please see the <nowiki>[[Sugar-Roadmap|road map]]</nowiki> for more details.

==== Join ====

The mailing list is: ubuntu-sugarteam@lists.ubuntu.com

You can try the latest (not stable build) here = ??

Yes, we want your help!

==== Process ====

The Ubuntu Sugar Remix Work flow is to:
* Import the Sugar packages from Debian and modify them as needed.
* Test USR on the hardware software platforms currently in use.
* Report problems and bugs to the bugtracker.
* Triage issues to insure that we have necessary information.
* Fix bugs and push them back upstream as necessary

==== Test ====
The  primary method for testing and reporting issues with Ubuntu Sugar Remix is by working through the Smoke Test on your hardware.  The <nowiki>[[Sugar-Test|Smoke Test]]</nowiki> provides a uniform method for determining what works and what does not work in the current release of USR.

==== Report ====
The bug <nowiki>[[Sugar-Report|report]]</nowiki> page contains information on how you can report bugs in a way that will help the team to process them more efficiently.

==== Triage ====
If you want to join the Sugar Team or just want to help out, triaging bugs is a fairly easy task that always needs to be done. Information on bug triaging can be found on <nowiki>[[Sugar-Bugs-Procedures|triage procedures]]</nowiki>.

==== Fix ====
The next step is fixing the properly triaged issue reports.  Information can be found at <nowiki>[[Sugar-Develop|development]]</nowiki>.

==== Package ====
Finally, for advanced developers, help packaging is all ways appreciated.    Information can be found at <nowiki>[[Sugar-Package|Package]]</nowiki>.

=== TODO list ===
* Blog on planet.u.c to announce team and project
* See what dependencies we have for activities - like abiword, evince - so we can see what activities we are able to package.
