{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Sugar Ubuntu Remix Packages ===
==== Ubuntu Sugar Remix ====
Ubuntu Sugar Remix is build like other standard flavours or remixes.  There are three packages which determine the USR experience.  
* ubuntu-sugar-remix-meta 
* ubuntu-sugar-remix-default-settings 
* ubuntu-sugar-remix-activity-pack 

These packages are currently available at https://launchpad.net/~sugarteam/+archive/ppa
 
===== TODO =====
* Move packages to Universe

==== Sugar ====
The core Sugar packages are synchronised and maintained in collaboration with <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Sugar| debian-olpc-devel]]</nowiki>.  These packages should require little if any modification within Ubuntu.

===== TODO =====

==== Dependencies ====
Sugar depends on several packages which must be adopted to run with Sugar.
* Xulrunner
* pyabiword

==== Activities ====
There are two methods for installing activities in USR, as Ubuntu packages or as Sugar activity bundles.  
Due to our very limited resources, Activity bundles are the preferred method.

=== Lucid ===

Lucid will be coming out around April 2010.

TO DO:
* Land latest upstream fructose packages
* * Done, pending upload: read
* * Need work: log, pippy, calculate - need FFE
* * Write still depends on the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abiword/+bug/320440|libabiword]]</nowiki> packaging - will need FFE
* Land latest upstream honey packages - will need FFE
* Update glucose packages to 0.83.6 (RC2) release
