{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Google's Summer of Code Tips ==

Google's Summer of Code is designed to introduce college students to the world of Open Source Software Development. Students whose proposals are accepted recieve a stipend; in exchange, they spend the summer implementing the project described in their proposal.

Google Summer of Code 2006 is now in progress no new applications are being considered.
The below show guidelines for applying and participating in the Summe rof Code.

* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/soc/student_step1.html|Google Summer of Code student signup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/soc|Google Summer of Code Home Page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/soc/studentfaq.html|Google SoC Student FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/soc/mentorfaq.html|Google SoC Mentor FAQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://drupal.org/node/59037|Drupal's How To Write A Summer of Code Application]]</nowiki> - very useful info, read it! Thanks to Drupal for compiling this**.
 
Here are a few suggestions for students interested in participating:

==== Things to consider: ====

* You should know how to progam already, preferably in python.
* You should at least have a working knowledge of Ubuntu, and knowing our community and it's working structure would be an advantage.
* Relative to the whole job market, not many people have the sorts of skills Ubuntu hacking will give you. Doing any serious work on Ubuntu will not only make you a more confident developer, it will look great on your CV/resume.

==== How to succeed: ====

 1. Don't overbook yourself. Working on your Summer of Code project should be your main activity for the entire summer.
 2. You must provide weekly status reports.
 3. You will be expected to learn how to do things the Ubuntu way - don;t worry your mentor will help you where necessary.
 4. Submit progress reports and patches early and often, so we can track your progress and we'll be able to help you much better if we can see regular progress. Also your mentor is more likely to accept smaller (more obviously correct) patches.
 5. You need submit a completed spec at the end of the project. It is best if you use the wiki as you go along, to make sure you capture as much relevant information as possible. See FeatureSpecification for details of how to write a good spec. If you project does not yet have a spec use the SpecTemplate to create one. Don't forget to make sure your spec is registered in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+addspec|Blueprint on Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

The most important item is #1. You'll have a lot to learn before you will get to the point where you can begin coding your project, and the projects are all non-trivial. We will provide you with amazing support from the mentors and community, but it is up to you to make sure that you can focus on your project

{i} Tip: Do not ask us what we want you to do; you need to be able to figure that out yourself.

{i} Tip: Don't feel you have to use one of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2006|listed ideas]]</nowiki>, or even that they're necessarily good projects to work on! People just add them as they think of good beginner projects. In fact, a custom project proposal is likely to be more impressive, as it shows you've put time into researching the project and getting familiar with its needs.

{i} Tip: Some things that look trivial may not be, and vice-versa. Investigate well! :)

==== Proposal suggestions: ====

** Write up your proposal simply, concisely, and in your own words
** Include some evidence that you are a good programmer
** If you have already submitted patches to Ubuntu implementing part of your project, please link to them from the proposal
** Where possible discuss your proposal in advance on our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/lists|mailing lists]]</nowiki> or on <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/irc|IRC]]</nowiki> to get feedback from the Ubuntu community

==== Ubuntu Projects ====

The lists of Ubuntu project Ideas for the 2006 Summer of Code are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2006|HERE]]</nowiki>

----

~- ** Note : 'Writing a Summer of Code Application ' is copyright by Angie Byron and Karoly Negyesi and available under a CC Attribution Share-Alike 2.0' -~
