{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== SuprEngr (suprengr) a.k.a Super Engineer. ==

*** Full name: SuperEngineer
*** Time zone: Europe/London

My Philosophy:
I have achieved many great & wonderful things in my life. Things that amaze & surprise many people, including myself. Yet there are so many others that have, and continue to, achieve so many greater & more wonderful things that ensure mine will always pale in comparison.

I am not ashamed of that.  I have achieved.  I am pleased that there are better.  
I stand only as an example of what can be achieved… as a springboard to greater achievements.  
The greatest achievement… understanding the above.

Other SuperEngineer links:
IRC [Freemode] SuperEngineer, 
https://launchpad.net/~suprengr  and  SuprEngr@twitter  [@SuprEngr]           (yes - that's me as well)

==== ================================ ====

=== World's shortest synopsis: ===

==== I have been: ====
*** a Unix admin.
*** a (Windoze) software engineer
*** a software implementation consultant
*** born on another planet

==== I am currently: ====
*** from another planet
*** a hardware [& some software] engineer (less stress)    
    
==== Currently installed distros: ====
*** Ubuntu 14.04 [main desktop]
*** Ubuntu Mate 14.04 [secondary desktop]
*** Xbuntu 14.04 [on HP Mini - portable desktop]
*** Lubuntu 14.04 [on Acer netbook - why not?]

==== Memberships: ====
*** Proud member of: Ubuntu-UK.
*** Inactive member of: Ubuntu-Users.

I come from another planet.

I also come from a background of using Unix before Linux.
I was then forced to be a Windows user due to work.
I am proudly a Linux user and only use Windows begrudingly.
I have no hope of becoming an "official" Ubuntu Community member...
I no longer code, but I do test and I do report bugs.
I feel that [very correctly] makes me a very minor member of the larger world of Ubuntu.

My main contributions:
- I provide a sense a humour [I hope]
- I am not afraid to step in and give a miscreant a "nudge" in the right direction on IRC if needed
- I do my best to be a "good" human being
- I am very proud to be part of the Ubuntu community
