{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Super Data Daemon Thing ==

=== What is it? ===

A collaboration between various open source developers to provide a common data access layer for the free desktop.

=== Who is involved? ===

In alphabetical order:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Project
| URL
| Developers
|-
| Conduit
| http://www.conduit-project.org/
| nzjrs, Jc2k
|-
| Gimmie
| http://www.beatniksoftware.com/gimmie/Main_Page
| einalex, orph, seiflotfy
|}

Projects we would especially like to involve:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Project
| URL
| Contact
| Why?
|-
| Beagle
| http://beagle-project.org/
| kkubasik
| If we are providing change notifications for stuff, we can fire it to beagle to index too
|-
| Cheese
| http://www.gnome.org/projects/cheese/
| _ke
| Cheese wants to do photo uploads
|-
| F-spot
| http://f-spot.org/
| sde
| F-spot does photo export, would be nice if we shared a backend
|-
| Tomboy
| http://www.gnome.org/projects/tomboy/
| sandy, boyd
| Even if Tomboy can't use Conduit for sync yet, using a common backend is a step in the right direction
|-
| Gnome-Do
| http://do.davebsd.com/
| daveux, DBO
| Gnome-Do is trying to implement webservices, why not fetch the items from one provider instead of async fetching
|}

=== Use Cases ===
* gimmie wants to receive a notification when something changes in a webservice or application
* tom has 3 applications that poll his S3 account, he wishes they all shared a connection so less bandwidth is used
* joe wants to upload his photo using {f-spot, nautilus, eog, cheese, conduit} to {flickr, smugmug, box.net, etc}
* boyd wants Tasky to have multiple backends {rtm, hiveminder, eds}
* john wants to plug in his phone and have his desktop react to it (e.g. automatic sync)

=== Design ===

==== Always up to date ====
* For some apps, the design of the getter should be similar to beagle. You ask for data and it gives you everything currently available. It will send you update events as data is added, changed or removed
* In the case of conduit (and opensync) we would only really want changes since the last request...

==== Caching ====
* Think caching should be at the dataprovider level, so it works for more than just HTTP based webservices
* We can provide a nice cache by setting up sync between the webservice and a local object store (sqlite?) The interface is the same whether the local data is used, or the online data is used. This could even be two-way sync so that offline changes can be pushed back to the webservice the next time NetworkManager reports its availability.

=== Implementation ===

=== Demo ===
* Build a random desktop background that can fetch pictures from {f-spot, flickr, smugmug, etc} without needing to know anything about how/where each service stores its data
