{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Raoul Snyman ==

=== About Me ===

My foray into Linux started a few years before Ubuntu. I was given a copy of SuSE, and spent as much time as I could in this operating system that I knew nothing about. Fast forward a few years and I had gotten involved with the Shuttleworth Foundation, putting thin-client networks into schools in disadvantaged areas around Cape Town. I suddenly was in contact with a whole lot of other Linux users, and I was overjoyed.

Toward the end of this time I heard about Ubuntu, and I eagerly installed it on my laptop. By Ubuntu 6.06, I had installed Ubuntu (or its sister, Kubuntu) on every computer I had.

When the South African Ubuntu !LoCo started up, I got wind of this, and I've been a part of it ever since.

I've been an Ubuntu Member since February 2015.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| superfly
|-
| Telegram
| superfly
|-
| Email
| raoul (a) snyman.info
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~raoul-snyman
|-
| Website
| http://christianoss.org
|}

=== Contributions ===

* '''Ubuntu-ZA !LoCo Member'''
   Officially a member since 2008, but I hung around in IRC from October 2006.
* '''#ubuntu-za IRC Support'''
   I hang around in #ubuntu-za IRC and help folks out. Recently I've started giving tutorials on using Bazaar, and other technical topics.
* '''Ubuntu-ZA Website'''
   I am the maintainer of the Ubuntu-ZA website. We're currently <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-za|overhauling the site]]</nowiki>, and hope to have it go live by the end of February.
* '''Open-source Developer'''
   I am an open-source developer, and the leader of the <nowiki>[[http://openlp.org/|OpenLP]]</nowiki> project, which has a PPA for Ubuntu.
* '''Debian and Ubuntu package maintainer'''
   I maintain the package in Debian (as an easy way to get it into both Debian and Ubuntu) for my OpenLP project. See the "openlp" package in <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/openlp|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://packages.debian.org/sid/openlp|Debian]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

With my open-source project, and my family, my time is limited. Having said that, my future goals are to continue contributing to Ubuntu and Ubuntu-ZA the way I have been doing for the last 5-10 years (through IRC, mailing lists and open source projects), and to help grow the Ubuntu-ZA community.

Having said that, I'm also keen to get hold of Ubuntu Phone and play around with it. I'm uncomfortable with how much of my data is stuck in Google, and would like another option.

=== Testimonials ===

Miles Sharpe (Kilos)

Since I first found Ubuntu back on 8.10 superfly has always been there for help, starting with mailing lists then teaching me how to setup and use IRC. He is a master at what he does and always has a friendly word of encouragement. especially for those who are new to the whole computer game. His patience and understanding in helping new comers is legend on our channel. Even with having to hold a baby on his lap while typing one handed he is always there for us all. Thank you Raoul. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:msdomdonner]]</nowiki>  

Wikus van Dyk ( mazal )

superfly has been on our support channels and mailing lists ever since I can remember. He helps and supports all
our members. He is highly skillfull and knowledgeable. He is a true asset to Ubuntu and it's users. - Wikus -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:wikus-s]]</nowiki>  

Greg Eames ( magespawn )

I first met superfly in the #ubuntu-za chat shortly after installing my first version of Ubuntu, in my first Internet Café. Needless to say I had lots of questions for which superfly was there to help. superfly has been one of the constants on the channel. superfly has also recently started to do short tutorials in channel for the rest of us. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:geames]]</nowiki> 
Graeme Donaldson ( thatgraemeguy )

I met Raoul in 2009, when I started a new job at a company where he had been working for a few months. At the time I had been a Windows sysadmin for several years and Raoul was one of a handful of people that contributed a great deal to polishing up my Linux skills which had laid dormant for several years. Raoul is helpful, friendly, patient and very knowledgeable across a variety of technologies. Raoul can often be seen in #ubuntu-za providing help and general advice and just generally being an asset to the channel. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:thatgraemeguy]]</nowiki> 
Maia Grotepass ( maiatoday )

I met superfly in the #ubuntu-za IRC channel and then I think I met him for the first time at the 10.10.10 Maverick Meerkat Release Party. Raoul has been an active voice in the community. He is always around on irc and ready to help people where he can. Raoul's work on the ubuntu-za website helps to keep the ubuntu-za presence on the web alive. I would not hesitate to recommend him as an ubuntu member. His consistent presence and activity in the community means he really understands what it means to be part of the ubuntu community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:maiatoday]]</nowiki> 
Neil Oosthuizen (nlsthzn)

Since I can remember (which means since I joined the LoCo) superfly has been in the channel giving solid advice on Ubuntu and FLOSS in general.  As busy as he has become (which is very busy) he is still constantly on IRC ready to lend support or just do a bit of community building while still maintaining infrastructure that keeps Ubuntu-ZA relevant (website etc).  I was surprised to learn that he wasn't already an Ubuntu Member and I am glad he is busy rectifying this oversight by applying now :)-- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nlsthzn]]</nowiki> 
Gustav H Meyer (inetpro)

Raoul is one of our senior and well respected members and was on the mailing list as well as on IRC since the early days even before we became a LoCo in 2006. He has always been ready with solid advice whether through correcting a spelling mistake or whether through posting a solid technical entry on his blog, he gets actively involved and gets the job done. Superfly should have been a Ubuntu Member a long time ago! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:inetpro]]</nowiki> 
Leon Marincowitz (Lionthinker) 

In South Africa we live far apart in a number of cities, so I've never met Raoul (superfly) but it feels like I have. He's one of the staples of the community always making on-line events and providing support, advice when needed. I would agree with previous comments that he is one of the senior persons of the community that provide stability and continuity which is incredible important to fulfil the spirit of the Ubuntu community. 
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lionthinker]]</nowiki> 
Stefano Rivera (stefanor)

Raoul has been a part of the local Ubuntu community for as long as I can remember. He is a helpful member of the mailing list, hangs out on IRC, and has designed and looked after the Loco website for the last few years (including a current in-progress redesign). I strongly endorse his application for Ubuntu membership. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:stefanor]]</nowiki> 
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
