{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About supermatt ===

* '''Main Wiki Page''': <nowiki>[[SuperMatt]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad Page''': <nowiki>[[http://www.launchpad.net/~SuperMatt/]]</nowiki>
* '''Freenode IRC Nick''': <nowiki>[[SuperMatt]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of Interest ===

I am interested in the following areas:

* Web Design & Development
* Artistic/Design
* UI/UX Development
* Web Hosting
* Application Development

=== Skills and Experience ===

I have extensive knowledge and experience in the following:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Python
| <#dddddd> Beginner
| 
|-
| PHP
| <#aaaaff> Average
| 
|-
| Gtk
| <#dddddd> Beginner
| 
|}

=== Other Examples ===

I currently work as a Linux Systems Administrator, and while I lack indepth knowledge of programming languages, I am able to pick them up quickly and hold my own. I have never really done any large scale development, though I do use programming languages for my own scripts, etc.

I am, however, a very avid user of Ubuntu, running it on all of my desktop PCs, my personal servers and many of the servers I use for work. I also spend a lot of time on Omg!Ubuntu! and reddit, answering questions for users and explaining features, as well as moderating the official Omg!Ubuntu! IRC channel. I feel that while I do lack in development skill, I do have a good grasp of the needs and desires of the Ubuntu comminity.

----
CategorySkunkWorksParticipation
