{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Dialup modem support in Ubuntu ==

=== Purchasing advice ===

If you are buying hardware for use with Ubuntu, and want to use a modem from a desktop computer: We recommend you purchase an external serial modem and connect it to a serial port on your computer.  External serial dialup modems should work without difficulty.  If your computer doesn't have serial ports (some modern systems don't) and has only USB instead then you will need a USB-to-serial converter.  USB serial converter gadgets are generally well-supported in Ubuntu.

If you are buying a laptop and want a built-in dialup modem for use with Ubuntu, you will unfortunately require proprietary closed-source drivers.  Some but not all of these drivers are included with Ubuntu; others are payware from third parties.  We recommend you test the laptop in question in the store, by booting an Ubuntu Desktop CD; then check for a modem supported by `sl-modem-daemon`, as described below.

Most USB-attached external modems, and many PCI card or laptop PC card internal modems, require unredistributable third-party closed source drivers - often payware drivers.  We do not recommend these devices.  A separate serial-attached modem used with a USB to serial adapter is a better choice, although it can be bulky for use with a laptop.

=== Serial-attached modems ===

Modems which attach to a genuine serial port are properly supported in Ubuntu.

Select the menu item System / Administration / Network, and use the configurator to set up the details for your modem and ISP.  You will need to enter or check values in all three of the tabs in the settings dialogue ("General", "Modem" and "Options").  The "Modem port" will usually be `/dev/ttyS0` for the first serial port, or `/dev/ttyS1` for the second.  "Dial prefix" can usually be left blank.

For modems attached via a serial port connected to a USB-to-serial converter, the "Modem port" to use will be `/dev/ttyUSB0` (or perhaps `USB1` or `USB2` etc., particularly if the serial converter was unplugged from its USB port on the computer and then plugged in again).

You can see what serial ports are detected on your system by opening a terminal window (Applications / Accessories / Terminal) and typing
  `ls /dev/tty*S*`

=== Modems supported by sl-modem-daemon ===

Some laptop builtin modems, and some PCI modems, are supported by the closed-source but zero-cost driver `sl-modem-daemon`, which is included on the Ubuntu CDs from gutsy onwards.

To determine whether your modem falls into this category, open a terminal window (Applications / Accessories / Terminal) and type
  `sudo modprobe snd-intel8x0m`
which will ask for your password, followed by
  `cat /proc/asound/cards`
The output should look something like this:
<pre>
  0 [ICH6           ]: ICH4 - Intel ICH6
                       Intel ICH6 with AD1981B at irq 22
  1 [Modem          ]: ICH-MODEM - Intel ICH6 Modem
                       Intel ICH6 Modem at irq 17
</pre>
If you see an entry marked "Modem" then your hardware should be supported.

To use the modem, you must install and configure the sl-modem-daemon driver package.  This is best done from the command line.  Open a terminal window and type these two commands:
<pre>
  sudo apt-get install sl-modem-daemon
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure sl-modem-daemon
</pre>

The first command should produce some reassuring output including things like this:
<pre>
  Starting SmartLink Modem driver for: modem:1.
  Creating /dev/modem symlink, pointing to: /dev/ttySL0.
</pre>

`dpkg-reconfigure` will ask you to specify which country you are in.  This is necessary because the phone systems in different countries are not identical; you may need to rerun this command if you travel.

When you've set this up successfully, you should be able to set up networking as if your modem is a serial-attached modem.  The modem device you should use is `/dev/ttySL0`, as shown in the output from installing sl-modem-daemon.

=== Other modems ===

There is a company called Linuxant providing payware drivers for some otherwise unsupported modems, mainly those using "Conexant" chips (also known as "HSF" modems).  This particularly includes the builtin modems in certain more recent laptops, and many USB-attached external modems.

For more information about these drivers see <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxant.com/drivers/|Linuxant's web site]]</nowiki>.  Please consult Linuxant for information about which modems are supported by their driver, installation instructions, pricing, and technical support.

For various older modems, there have sometimes been binary-only proprietary kernel drivers; unfortunately these drivers cannot be updated by Ubuntu for newer Linux kernel versions and are generally not supported in recent Ubuntu releases.

=== References ===

Various information is available which a determined user may be able to make use of in trying to get their hardware working.  The following are reasonable starting points:
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OutoftheboxWinmodem
The approaches recommended in those pages can be difficult and the information provided is complex.  We do not recommend them for the fainthearted.
