{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is this Ubuntu Help team? ==

Ubuntu Help Team is a team that takes care of free support in ubuntu excluding the ubuntu forums which is taken care by the <nowiki>[[ForumCouncil| Forum Council]]</nowiki>

== How do I get Into the team? ==

Please see <nowiki>[[SupportTeam/GettingInvolved| Getting Involved]]</nowiki> for more info

== What are the general guidelines to be followed while asking support? ==

There is no such thing as specific guidelines but these are the points to be kept in mind :

* Everything in the ubuntu community has been binded by a <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of conduct]]</nowiki> and we kindly request you to follow it at the foremost..

* If you have a question to ask and by chance if the question is answered please                       <nowiki>[[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/questions/|search]]</nowiki> the answer tracker before posting your question

* While asking a question please provide as much as information as possible, related to your problems so that it becomes possible for us to help you out better.

* Please be patient as the answer givers at the answer trackers are ''' VOLUNTEERS ''' all around the world and your question might be answered a bit late due to the differences in the time zones, If in case nobody knows an answer to your question, then your question will remain in open state for 15 days and then expire (which you can reopen at any stage if you desire.)

== I too am interested in giving support. Can you help me in doing so? ==
Yes, you are most welcome, As of now we have planned a support school to provide training to individuals interested in giving support. As planned now it will be for every 2 months on channel `#ubuntu-helpteam` on `irc.freenode.net`

== I too am a professional support personel. Can I join the team? ==
Yes, You are gladly welcome. Please see <nowiki>[[SupportTeam/GettingInvolved| Getting Involved]]</nowiki> for more info on joining the team.

== How do I contact the team members? ==
Subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-helpteam|Support team mailing list]]</nowiki> first and see 
<nowiki>[[SupportTeam/Contacts| here]]</nowiki> for more info..

== Can I put forward my ideas and discuss with the team? ==
Definitely, Subscribe to the mailing list given above and/or otherwise log on to our IRC channel `#ubuntu-helpteam` on `irc.freenode.net` and discuss openly with the team 

== Readers Comments: ==
  
      