{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Nick:
| Suzan
|-
| Gender:
| female
|-
| Real Name:
| Susanne Vestner-Ludwig
|-
| Date of birth:
| 06-May-1972
|-
| Location:
| Nuernberg, Germany
|-
| Jabber:
| Suzan@jabber.org
|-
| Languages:
| german, english
|-
| In love with Ubuntu since:
| 25-Sep-2004 (Warty 4.10 PR)
|-
| 
|-
| Ubuntu in use:
| '''Ubuntu Gutsy with GNOME'''
|}

=== Ubuntu Activities: ===

I am a member of the <nowiki>[[http://verein.ubuntu-de.org|german ubuntu association]]</nowiki>

=== My Webpages (all german language): ===

http://suzansworld.com

http://mylinux.suzansworld.com

=== My Hardware: ===

'''Laptop-System'''

* Dell Inspirion 6400
* CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo (1,83Ghz)
* RAM: 2 GB
* Harddisk: 160GB SATA
* Graphic: GeForce Go 7300 256MB (Turbo Cache)
* WLAN: Intel Pro Wireless 3945ABG
* Sound: onBoard Intel 82801G High Definition
* WXGA TFT 1280×800
* Cardreader: Ricoh R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro
* LAN: Broadcom BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX
* Bluetooth: Broadcom USB Wireless

The Dell Inspirion 6400 with nvidia-card is a very good linux-laptop. Graphic, WLAN, LAN, sound, cardreader, media-control-buttons worked out-of-the box with Ubuntu 7.04.

The bad things: microphone, suspend/hibernate doesn't work. 
Update: in Gutsy microphone works out-of-the box! :-)

Not tested: bluetooth, modem

'''Desktop-System'''

''All this hardware works flawlessly with Ubuntu out-of-the-box.''

'''hp pavilion K657.de desktop PC with'''

* AMD Athlon 64 3400+ processor
* 7-in-1 card reader
* nVidia GeForce FX 5700VE
* Sound onboard (VIA 82xx Audio)
* ethernet LAN 10/100 Mbit onboard

'''Additional PCI-Cards:'''

* Soundcard SB Live! (EMU10k1)

'''Additional Hardware:'''

* Printer HP PSC 1410 (printer/scanner/copier)
* Logitech ClickSmart 310 (gspca)
* Mobile HDD Trekstor USB-Storage 2.0, 80 GB
* iPod nano 2 GB
----
CategoryHomepage
