{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The Swedish LoCo was founded fall 2004. Until today we've had 16.000 registrations and have about 200 active members.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''2010-11-12'') (For use on 2010-11-16)
* '''Team Contact''' - Pontus Öhman <admin@id-10-t.se>
* '''Membership''' - Forum: 16005 registered users, IRC channel: ~125 users as of 6th November 2010
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-se on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-se on freenode
* '''Forum''' - http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/index.php

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* ''Improve our website'' - Ongoing upgrade of the community look and feel
* ''More meetings IRL'' - http://ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=64&t=49682
* ''Work on our Twitter and Youtube channel'' - http://twitter.com/ubuntu_se & http://www.youtube.com/user/UbuntuSverige

=== Experience ===

List here activities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

* ''Support thru the forum, IRC and mailinglist''
* ''Ubuntu days in Gothenburg''
  Summer 2008 we had a two day promotional / presentation campaign where we showed Ubuntu to the public.
  Text and pictures from the event: http://geraner.typepad.com/blog/2008/06/ubuntudagen-i-g%C3%B6teborg-del-1.html http://geraner.typepad.com/blog/2008/06/ubuntu-g%C3%B6teborgdagarna-del-2.html
* ''Release parties throughout Sweden''
** Ubuntu 9.10 in <nowiki>[[http://mikrofoncaught.blogspot.com/2009/10/livebloggande-fran-ostersunds-ubuntu.html|Östersund]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://breakthychains.blogspot.com/2009/11/en-synnerligen-lyckad-releasefest-den.html|Gothenburg]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=64&t=44176|Örebro]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 10.04 in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=64&t=47589|Stockholm]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?p=387452#p387452|Gothenburg]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://blogg.gp.se/teknik/2010/04/29/party-for-lucid-lynx/|with invited journalist]]</nowiki>)
** Ubuntu 10.10 in <nowiki>[[http://breakthychains.blogspot.com/2010/10/maverick-meerkat-efterfesten.html|Gothenburg]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=64&t=48433|Stockholm]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=64&t=50892|Örebro]]</nowiki> 
* ''Ubuntu News in Swedish''
  A news feed was launched on the 9th October 2010 with the purpose to provide Swedish Ubuntu users with news about Ubuntu written in Swedish.
  The editors write abstracts in Swedish and provides links to further information based on official sources such as Canonical Blog, Canonical Design, Mark Shuttleworth blog and jonobacon@home, as well as community sources such as Full Circle Magazine and OMG! Ubuntu!. The target is to publish at least one news item per day and for obvious reasons it has so far been much about the 10.10 release and UDS Natty outcomes.
  The news feed is a LoCo project and is published on a separate Wordpress site <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntunyheter.nu]]</nowiki> (which in Swedish can be read as "Ubuntunews.now"). The news feed is incorporated in the front page of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-se.org/|LoCo Drupal site]]</nowiki> and the plan is to make further technical integrations during the continous development of the LoCo site.
* ''Swedish translations for Ubuntu on launchpad'' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-sv
* ''Ubuntu Nordic Remix Edition" - an Ubuntu remix by Ubuntu-se member Daniel Nylander'' - http://home.danielnylander.se/ubuntu/

----
