{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page provides instructions of how to nominate yourself as a possible leader for the Swedish LoCo Team.

IMPORTANT: You can only nominate yourself as a leader. If you want to lead the ubuntu-se LoCo team, follow the instructions on this page. You should not nominate someone else!

Open a text editor and in it answer the following questions (keep the questions included) - you should write your answers in Swedish:

* Your name
* Your email address
* Your bio
* How will you would grow the team's membership?
* Where do you the future of the team?
* What leadership experience do you have?
* How would you deal with conflict and problems?
* How do you feel you would be the best leader?

'''Keep the text to under 700 words!'''

Here is an example:

<pre>
Your name: Dave Hame

Your email address: dave@bogodogosogos.com

Your bio? fd sdf f sd sd dsf f sdf sdfsdf sdf s sdf sd sdf dsf sdfdsf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf dsf sdf ds fsdff sd f dsf sd fsd sdf dsf dsf sd fsd.

How will you would grow the team's membership? fd sdf f sd sd dsf f sdf sdfsdf sdf s sdf sd sdf dsf sdfdsf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf dsf sdf ds fsdff sd f dsf sd fsd sdf dsf dsf sd fsd.

Where do you the future of the team? fd sdf f sd sd dsf f sdf sdfsdf sdf s sdf sd sdf dsf sdfdsf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf dsf sdf ds fsdff sd f dsf sd fsd sdf dsf dsf sd fsd.

What leadership experience do you have? fd sdf f sd sd dsf f sdf sdfsdf sdf s sdf sd sdf dsf sdfdsf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf dsf sdf ds fsdff sd f dsf sd fsd sdf dsf dsf sd fsd.

How would you deal with conflict and problems? fd sdf f sd sd dsf f sdf sdfsdf sdf s sdf sd sdf dsf sdfdsf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf dsf sdf ds fsdff sd f dsf sd fsd sdf dsf dsf sd fsd.

How do you feel you would be the best leader? fd sdf f sd sd dsf f sdf sdfsdf sdf s sdf sd sdf dsf sdfdsf sdf sdf sdf sdf ds sdf sdf sdf dsf sdf dsf sdf ds fsdff sd f dsf sd fsd sdf dsf dsf sd fsd.

</pre>

Send the text as an email (include it in the body of the email) to jono AT ubuntu DOT com and give it the subject line 'Swedish Nominations: <your name>'. For example:

<pre>
Swedish Nominations: Dave Hame
</pre>

All nominations should be submitted by '''2pm UTC March 1st 2007'''.
