{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
'''Svenska'''

Projekt med fokus på att bygga en LoCo-struktur från grunden inkl. organisatorisk modell baserad på grupper enl. Ubuntu's rekommendationer. Detta är ett fristående projekt men ämnat för medlemmarna i det Svenska Ubuntu-LoCo't.

Bas:

* Portal byggd i Wordpress med nyhetsflöde, twitter m.m. Struktur för f.a.q, guider, nedladdningssida, information om Ubuntu- och LoCo't.

* Planet för bloggar

* Ubuntu dokumentation/manual

* Forum byggt i phpBB bryggat mot Wordpress

* AjaxChat bryggat mot phpBB

* Chat-GUI för IRC

* Mobila teman för portal och forum

'''English'''

Project aimed to build a LoCo from scratch incl. an organization based on divisional structure as per Ubuntu LoCo guidelines. This is a stand alone project but intended for the members of the Swedish LoCo.

Base:

* Portal build on Wordpress with Ubuntu-news, latest tweets a.s.o. Structure for f.a.q, guides, downloads and information about Ubuntu and the LoCo.

* Planet for weblogs.

* Ubuntu documentation/manual.

* Forum built on phpBB bridged with Wordpress.

* AjaxChat bridged with phpBB.

* Chat-GUI for IRC

* Mobile interface for the portal and forum

== Contact ==
E-mail: gnuboxer@gmail.com (Farmfield)

== How to Contribute ==
Mer info inom kort!

== Projects ==
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-se-reboot

== Launchpad Membership Policy ==
Mer info inom kort!

== Meetings ==
Mer info inom kort!

----
'''Sub-pages :''' ----

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
