{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu in Switzerland ===

==== What is Ubuntu Linux ====

Ubuntu Linux is a free operating system developed by people all over the world. It is free to use, acquire, share and modify. Some developers are paid by the Ubuntu foundation or the company Canonical who also offers commercial support. For more information and how to get it, see www.ubuntu.com

==== Local community ====

Welcome to the Ubuntu community in Switzerland.

* If you are a Ubuntu user and would like to participate or follow in local Ubuntu community activities please come to our community wiki page
 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam

* If you would like to get help from someone near you, you can have a look at our list of local contact persons. They can help out with technical problems or give information on Ubuntu.

==== Help and support ====

If you have technical questions on Ubuntu Linux, please use the Ubuntu help sites in your preferred language:
** ubuntu-de for support in German
** ubuntu-fr.org for support in French
** ubuntu.it for support in Italian

==== Swiss Linux Sites ====

These sites or organisations are independent of the Ubuntu community, but we all cooperate to help Switzerland use free software:

** Swisslinux
** Wilhelm``Tux
** FSF
** LUGS

==== Commercial support ====
If you are looking for commercial support for Ubuntu Linux, please go to www.ubuntu.com and in particular:
* Ubuntu Marketplace for commercial support
where companies offering support are listed per country.

===== Something else =====
Were you actually looking for something else on this web site?

* ubuntu the UN project/site

===== Brought to you by =====
''SwissTeam - the Swiss Ubuntu community''
