{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Ubuntu Switzerland (ubuntu-ch) ==

The Ubuntu SwissTeam seeks to be recognized as the official Swiss Loco Team.

The team, which has been active for more than a year, consists of Ubuntu users from all over Switzerland. Our varied membership reflects the diversity of languages in Switzerland: French, German, Italian and Romansh.

For us, giving Ubuntu love and support doesn't stop at Switzerland's border. Many team members also participate in other groups on Launchpad such as Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu, Documentation Team, German, French and Italian Translators, BugSquad and so on. 

Of course, quite a few of us are active Ubuntu members.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - 29 May 2007
* '''Team Contact''' - Stéphane Graber <stgraber@ubuntu.com>
* '''Membership''' - 89 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-swiss-users/|launchpad members]]</nowiki> as of 28 May 2007
* '''Homepage''' - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-ch on lists.ubuntu.com (100 subscribers as of 28 May 2007)
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-ch on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

The Swiss Loco Team aims to promote Ubuntu and its flavors in Switzerland. This is done through:

* Install parties
* Stands at fairs
* Presentations and speeches at various events
* Regular meetings on IRC channel #ubuntu-ch
* Giving support, CDs and info in the various Swiss regions, in all Swiss languages + English. See also the list of local contact persons on the main page, grouped by location
* Active collaboration in translations into German, French, Italian and, hopefully soon also Romansh.

=== Experience ===

* We threw a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ReleasePartyFeisty|Feisty Fawn Relase Party]]</nowiki> on 21 April 2007 and made it into a local IT-paper: <nowiki>[[http://www.pctipp.ch/topthema/tt/36081.asp]]</nowiki> (article in German)
* The Open Expo 2007 in Bern 7-8 March 2007: Team representatives answered questions about Ubuntu and gave demonstrations at a stand. A poster featuring Ubuntu was also on display. For a complete overview, see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/OpenExpo/2007-Bern|OpenExpo2007-Bern]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu Install-Party in Luzern, 30 November 2006: Organized together with <nowiki>[[http://zentralschweiz.lugs.ch/|Zentralschweizer Linux-Treff]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy Release Party in Bern, 26 October 2006: See also EdgyReleaseParties
* Software Freedom Day Bern, 22 July 2006: In collaboration with the CCC in Zürich, handing out CDs
* Funduntu Lausanne, 1 June 2006: Celebration Dapper release around a Fondue trio: <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/37463250@N00/157906996/|Fondue for human beings]]</nowiki>.
* Install Party in Horw (Luzern), 18 May 2006
* Ubuntu presentation and installation at Journées du Libre, Geneva, 14 May 2006: <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-gull.ch/gull/evenements/installconfigparty/]]</nowiki>
* Swiss Ubuntu Users Meeting, Bern, 8 May 2006
* Ubuntu Bug Lounge Luzern, 21 April 2006
