{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Intrepid Ibex Release Party ==

Ubuntu 8.10, codename "Intrepid Ibex" will be released on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidReleaseSchedule/|30th October 2008]]</nowiki>. 

Detailed schedule information about the Swiss Release Party can be found <nowiki>[[Zurich|here]]</nowiki>

Use the present page or organisation meetings, brainstorming and ideas, the <nowiki>[[Zurich| Zurich page]]</nowiki> for agreed task and offical texts

=== Organisation ===

==== IRC Meetings ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Time'''
| '''Chan@Network'''
| '''Topics'''
|-
| July 24 2008
| 20:00 MESZ
| #ubuntu-ch @ irc.freenode.net
| Almost nobody showed up, no results
|-
| September 22 2008
| 19:00 MESZ
| #ubuntu-ch @ irc.freenode.net
| 8.10 RP ZH and Romandie, dates to be checked!
|-
| October 1st 2008
| 19:30 MESZ
| #ubuntu-ch @ irc.freenode.net
| 8.10 RP ZH and Romandie, further proceedings
|-
| October 7 2008 Tuesday
| 20:00 Swiss time
| #ubuntu-ch @ irc.freenode.net
| 8.10 RP ZH, finish program/invitation
|-
| October 28 200 Tuesday
| 19:30 Swiss time
| #ubuntu-ch @ irc.freenode.net
| final schedule, flyer, poster, invitation list, see below
|-
| October 30 2008 Thrusday
| 20:00 Swiss time
| #ubuntu-ch @ irc.freenode.net
| idem, addition meeting for those not able to attend the previous one
|}

==== Date and Location ====

November 15 2008, starting 15:00 in Zürich, ZhdK, Sihlquai 131

==== Material ====

* Official CD packs ordered --<nowiki>[[MyriamSchweingruber]]</nowiki>
* Daniel Stoni offers to sponsor the drinks

==== Ideas ====

===== Crew T-shirts =====

Would be nice if we could wear crew T-shirts so people know who to ask for questions etc. Another idea is a little "welcome desk" (maybe cooperated with the bar) to receive people who drop by and don't really know what's going on or what to do.
* Isn't this to short to organise? Would have loved to have an Ibex T-shirt. --<nowiki>[[MyriamSchweingruber]]</nowiki>

===== Posters / Fliers designs =====

We will use the nice picture Tribaal circulated on the mailing list. Please respect the authors copyright. Florian is working on a flyer and a poster, find the drafts <nowiki>[[SwissTeam-Artwork|here]]</nowiki>

==== Press and other contacts ====

* ubuntuusers.de, done by Moira
* Symlink, done by Axel
* The ZHdK's VMK blog (blog.vmk.zhdk.ch), done by Ramon
* Digitale Allmend
* gnupingu.ch ("Über Gnus und Pinguine"), done by Moira
* 20 Minuten, done, -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* Punkt CH (.ch), done, -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* Heute, done, -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* "Regionalredaktion ZH", done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* züritipp, done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* swisslinux.org, done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* Tagesanzeiger Digital, done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* PC Tipp online, done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>, and here is the result: <nowiki>[[http://www.pctipp.ch/news/betriebssysteme/45695/zuercher_ubuntu_810_party.html|PC Tipp article]]</nowiki>
* Computer World Schweiz, done -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki>
* Revamp-IT
* /ch/open
* Zentralschweizer LUGS, done d*mn late -- TormodVolden

=== Review RP ZH 8.04 ===

==== Was war gut? ====
* Many interesting talks, bar, perfect venue. --TormodVolden

==== Was hätte man deiner Meinung nach besser machen können ====
* Too many talks that did not concern the target audience. There were not many beginners. --PsyQ

==== Was hätte man deiner Meinung nach anders machen könne ====
* No talks longer than 30min --TormodVolden
* Some more "fun" in plenum activities, like the 7.04(?) quiz --TormodVolden

==== Was war nicht gut verlaufen? ====
* The talk schedule got totally broken --TormodVolden

=== Preview RP ZH 8.10 ===

==== Discussion and brainstorming ====

We are debating whether the 8.10 party should be an informational event aimed at newbies or simply a celebration, more or less for the team itself. --PsyQ

8.04 in ZH was an info day, but Zürich mainstream media ignores Linux and Ubuntu, so we didn't get the mainstream audience we hoped for. This is different in Lausanne. So it would be possible for the ZH RP to simply be a party/get-together "for us". If we do make the ZH RP into an info event, it needs to be done differently than 8.04: Less talks, and more interesting for Ubuntu veterans AS WELL as the newbies we won't get :) --PsyQ

===== Infoveranstaltung wie 8.04 =====

This section is for activities we could provide if we want the 8.04 party to be for the general public again. --PsyQ

* Less focus on "newbies". Newbies are welcome and will get help, but the talks should be different. Idea: No more than 3 talks: --PsyQ
## What is Ubuntu, how do I install it, how do I install software? (very brief, 20 mins)
## (Some current hot topic in Ubuntu-land). e.g. "WINE 1.0: Using Windows programs and games" (that's just an example) (30 mins) --PsyQ
## Ubuntu hardware: What you should know when you buy a new PC to get a 100% compatible machine. --PsyQ
* Few talks, but '''CLEARLY MARKED''' opportunities for people to talk to experts and ask their own free-form questions. --PsyQ
* A quiet area somewhere near the bar with network cables and power, in case anyone wants to install (experience shows that there are few installs at these parties) --PsyQ
* Demonstrations for Windows- and Mac-Users: How can I do e-mail with Ubuntu? What about office applications? Will Ubuntu fit in my Windows network? etc. --DirkDeimeke
* I would have the possibility to arrange an article about the RP in the "St. Galler Nachrichten" and eventually in other free newspapers for free to make some advertising.. --dei (--> cephos at gmail com)

===== LoCo Veranstaltung, einfach mal unter uns zusammen sitzen =====

This section is for activities in case we want to make the 8.10 party more of a celebration for us. Outsiders are welcome, of course. --PsyQ

* Must be made clear that the party is simply a celebration, not an informational event. Although SwissTeam members are happy to answer questions if outsiders show up. --PsyQ
* Small bar, chips, cake, beer, drinks --PsyQ
* Sofas or general hangout equipment like at the 8.04 party --PsyQ
* Some Internet access. --PsyQ
* Live video stream from and to Lausanne? (if we do both parties on the same day) --PsyQ
* A public machine that runs the video cam and an IRC session to #ubuntu-ch --PsyQ

That's probably all we need to have a party! --PsyQ
