{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Brainstorm at will here (and move established items to the main page):

* there will be a gradual devolution from technical workshops in the afternoon, to some organized non-technical later, into non-organized social during the evening

* we will send invitations to many lugs/floss/etc groups and MLs
** she-geeks
** GULL, they can forward the info to the rest of the French part of CH
** ''posted on <nowiki>[[http://www.symlink.ch/articles/07/04/11/2045205.shtml|symlink.ch]]</nowiki>''
** ''debian-zh has been invited''
** ''lugs.ch has been invited''
** ''zentralschweiz/lugs.ch has been invited''
** Wouldn't it be a good idea to announce it at ubuntuusers.de as well?

=== draft of schedule ===

* open doors from 14h
** we'll be let in at 12h by Lily to cable-up the network, electricity, server(s)
* workshops
** installing feisty
** new flyers (bigger, more info, no stupid ads)
** propaganda projects
** schools, demonstrating Edubuntu (ideally on LTSP)
** debugging X drivers --TormodVolden
** for the creatives: work on a Ubuntu SwissTeam logo 
** check what the Belgians did on their website: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-be.org|ubuntu-be]]</nowiki>, talk about that with Mark van Boerre in Brussels during FOSDEM
** an idea could be the Swiss flag in the middle of the Ubuntu circle (changing the square flag to a circle ;-) )  
** Networking 
** LAN file services: file sharing with Samba or NFS
** WWW serving with Apache
** NIC Bonding: eth0 + eth1 = bond0 

* official "party" start 17h
* welcomes, presentations 18h
* eating 19h30

* films 21h
* last tram home 2330
* some of us stay till we get kicked out
** can someone perhaps look for a place to sleep ( at least from the kicking out till the first train :-P)

=== presentations, talks ===
* welcome to the biggest Ubuntu release party in CH ever
* we are by then an official Ubuntu LoCo Team, so what does that mean?

=== plenum discussions ===
* brainstorm for activities summer/autumn
* anyone keen on making an official association?
** ''we could become an official association at the party (with a little bit preparation)''
** ''Personally, I don't like the idea too much, what with having to elect a Vorstand, do the annual Gerneralversammlung, someone having to look after the financial things etc. To me, being member of an association bears a hidden compulsion to participate in the activites, where I'd much prefer to base my involvement on free will and enthusiasm. My opinion - YMMV, of course!  However, if there are real benefits and there's a lot of things that can be handled with more comfort when acting as an association instead of a bunch of individuals, I won't oppose, of course.'' --<nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki>
** ''I mostly agree with Netztier. I would rather spend the energy on the two below points. But I would not stand in the way if someone wants to do this and promises to get more, not less, action done this way. It can be discussed at the party, but let's not spoil the party with administrativa.'' --TormodVolden
** ''I fully agree with the above! Thre already is enough structure like this, we certainly don't need to fall in the typical Swiss Trap: get 3 Swiss together and they found an association! We already have a very dynamic group, let's not spoil that.'' --MyriamSchweingruber
* work actively/officially with other LUGs/FSFE/etc --MyriamSchweingruber
* initiative to merge many of these associations
* total world domination ASAP but how
** ''First everybody has to use Ubuntu. And then we hack the package servers'' ;-)
** ''Ubunteros are not crackers! We are the saviours!''

=== games and entertainment ===
* ubuntu trivia

=== computer games ===
* Workshop about 3d modelling with Blender/leveldesign for Quake-based games
* Small Quake3/Open``Arena Lanparty 
** ''that would be a great idea. i will join it! what about Nexuiz?'' (Silvan)

=== films to choose from ===
* Trusted Computing, 3:24', a "must" about DRM
* The Corruptibles, 2'11, EFF animation about DRM, another "must"
* Codebreakers, 38', about Software Piracy
* Codename GNU/Linux, 50', "arte" documentary, unfortuately in german only
* Revolution OS, 1:24', the must
* Google behind the screen, 47', a dutch documentary about monopoly of the net

=== food and drinks ===
* Dock 18 sell drinks
* Pizza delivery: ''suggestion needed'' (In ZH there is a big Pizza``Blitz near the dock18) to be checked
* Thai food: ''suggestion needed''
* Chinese: ''suggestion needed''
* Vegan food: ''suggestion needed''
* check <nowiki>[[http://map.search.ch/zuerich/grubenstr.18.en.html]]</nowiki> and make sure to check "Gastronomy" in the column on the left. Along Uetlibergstrasse, there's a Vietnamese, two Italian a Spanish and a Thai restaurant, all within a 5min walk.

We need to discuss if we buy some other catering.

* catering or a mix of deliveries?
** let's print out the order forms of two or three delivery services, and everyone fills in his order by ~18:30. This will give them enough time to process the (possibly) large order and deliver it in one go.
Which delivery services? Links anyone?
* votes, preferences
** Tormod likes pizza and asian
** Erwin likes meat (and pizza)
** Netzier votes for asian food. Pizza will do, too.
** Myriam eats everything (well, close to, no caviar, blue cheese, brazil nuts, kiwis)
** Ruthenium likes pizza, asian food...
** Thomas likes pizza, asian (no fish)
** Carlos eats nearly everything
** Manuel likes pizza and asian
