{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Karmic Koala Release Party ==

Ubuntu 9.10, codename "Karmic Koala" has been released on  29th October 2009.  Let's party!!!

'''<nowiki>[[SwissTeam-ReleasePartyKarmic-Attendees|Attendees list]]</nowiki>'''

For helping out with organizing: '''<nowiki>[[SwissTeam-ReleasePartyKarmic-Orga|Orga]]</nowiki>'''

=== Date and Location ===

Saturday, 21. November 2009, starting from 14:00 till midnight.

The party will be held at the offices of Puzzle. ITC who will be our sponsor for that day.

Address: Eigerplatz 4, 3000 Bern

* CDs for 32bit computers will be available for Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Ubuntu Server

=== Schedule ===

To be announced. Several experts will be available to demonstrate the live system or help you install on your own computer.

=== Special thanks ===
The Ubuntu SwissTeam is very grateful to Puzzle ITC GmbH for supporting us. <nowiki>[[http://www.puzzle.ch|www.puzzle.ch]]</nowiki>

=== How to get there ===

By train (from Bern main station): 
* Tram number 3  direction Weissenbühl till Eigerplatz. Puzzle ist in the building adjacent to the tram stop in the fith floor (look for "Peugeot" in the ground floor).
* Tram Nr. 5 (direction ? ) till Eigerplatz (about 5 min.). 
* Bus number 10 direction Köniz Schliern till Eigerplatz
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&hl=en&geocode=7225723813451824152,46.947700,7.439980%3B12957183862851870419,46.945900,7.433530%3B535941294722099741,46.941580,7.430720&time=&date=&ttype=&saddr=1%2F12%2FBubenbergplatz+%4046.947700,+7.439980&daddr=46.94578,7.433538+to:Eigerplatz+%4046.941580,+7.430720&mra=dme&mrcr=0,1&mrsp=1&sz=15&sll=46.94634,7.43502&sspn=0.020479,0.031371&ie=UTF8&ll=46.945604,7.434998&spn=0.01024,0.015686&z=16&om=1|view map]]</nowiki>

By car (from the Bern Forsthaus highway exit): <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&hl=en&geocode=8450637284556751908,46.953840,7.417710%3B4785772582659660897,46.941240,7.430830&time=&date=&ttype=&saddr=Unknown+road+%4046.953840,+7.417710&daddr=46.941444,7.430727&mra=dme&mrcr=0&mrsp=1&sz=16&sll=46.942235,7.433109&sspn=0.01024,0.015686&ie=UTF8&ll=46.947215,7.434654&spn=0.081915,0.125484&z=13&om=1|view map]]</nowiki>

==== Car parking ====

There are NO car parking facilities at Eigerplatz. It's possible to un- and upload in front of the house, but please do not park your car there, especially not in front of the public transportation garages nearby. Please, use <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=City+West+Bern&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&um=1&sa=N&tab=wl|City West]]</nowiki> parking facilities nearby (roughly 400 m away).

By train (from Bern main station): 
* Tram number 3  direction Weissenbühl 
* Bus number 10 direction Köniz Schliern
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=d&hl=en&geocode=7225723813451824152,46.947700,7.439980%3B12957183862851870419,46.945900,7.433530%3B535941294722099741,46.941580,7.430720&time=&date=&ttype=&saddr=1%2F12%2FBubenbergplatz+%4046.947700,+7.439980&daddr=46.94578,7.433538+to:Eigerplatz+%4046.941580,+7.430720&mra=dme&mrcr=0,1&mrsp=1&sz=15&sll=46.94634,7.43502&sspn=0.020479,0.031371&ie=UTF8&ll=46.945604,7.434998&spn=0.01024,0.015686&z=16&om=1|view map]]</nowiki>
