{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Release Party Ubuntu 7.04 in Switzerland ==

=== Summary ===
The Ubuntu SwissTeam would like to throw a party to celebrate the Ubuntu 7.04 "Feisty Fawn" release, open for everybody interested. <<BR>>
The party will take place Saturday April 21st (two days after the <nowiki>[[FeistyReleaseSchedule|scheduled release]]</nowiki>).

=== Location ===
 {*} Dock18 http://www.dock18.ch <<BR>>
 {*} Address :<<BR>>
    Dock18 Raum für Medienkulturen<<BR>>
    Grubenstrasse 18<<BR>>
    8045 Zürich<<BR>>
 {*} getting there by public transport: from Hauptbahnhof, take the Uetliberg-Bahn S10 from Track 2 (underground, below track 3) until station '''Binz'''. You need a <nowiki>[[http://www.vbz.ch/|VBZ (Verkehrsbetriebe Zürich)]]</nowiki> ticket for '''Zone 10'''.<<BR>>
 {*} By car :<<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=Grubenstrasse+18+Zurich&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=26.062294,57.832031&layer=&ie=UTF8&om=1&z=16&iwloc=addr|Google Maps]]</nowiki>

=== Schedule ===
'''Here is the current schedule''' Please everybody write your ideas to the wiki page <nowiki>[[/Ideas]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time
| What
| Who
| Comments
|-
| 14:00
| Install Party
| SilvanGebhardt
| Installing Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) on everything we can find
|-
| 15:00
| 3D desktop effects
| TormodVolden
| a.k.a Xorg debugging session
|-
| 16:00
| Edubuntu demo
| StéphaneGraber
| Edubuntu Feisty 7.04 in a Thin Client environment
|-
| 18:00
| Talk
| MyriamSchweingruber
| "How``To help with Free Software"
|-
| 19:00
| Key Signing
| StéphaneGraber
| see Key Signing Details below
|-
| later
| Ubuntu Trivia
| RashundaTramble
| Possible prize : Posters from the OpenExpo, flyers, Ubuntu 4.10 CDs
|-
| even later
| Party!
| everyone
| have fun! (Watching movies/DVD)
|}

=== Unscheduled activities ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| What
| Who
| Comments
|-
| OpenSource games LAN Party
| Sindwiller and StéphaneGraber
| 
|-
| CAcert accreditation
| PierreGraber
| 
|-
| New flyers, Artwork
| 
| 
|-
| Blender/leveldesign for Quake-based games
| Sindwiller
| 
|-
| Networking
| <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki>
| File servers (NFS, Samba), WWW, NIC Bonding, Analysis with Wireshark
|}

=== Task coordination ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Task
| Group
| Head
| group members
|-
| Dock 18, key
| Dock 18
| Lily
| MyriamSchweingruber
|-
| Food
| ''Chefs''
| MyriamSchweingruber
| Ruthenium
|-
| Cleaning
| ''Underdogs''
| Emonkey
| MyriamSchweingruber
|-
| Network
| ''Netztier''
| Netztier
| pcdog
|-
| Key Signing
| "Key master"
| StéphaneGraber
| 
|}

=== Key signing details ===
If you want to take part of the key signing party, please me send your GPG key and fingerprint at stgraber_at_ubuntu_dot_com (You can simply send an e-mail containing the fingerprint signed by your key) and I'll add them to the list. <<BR>>

You'll then need to take at least a printed version of your fingerprint (to check that mine is correct), an ID card and a pencil with you. <<BR>>

I'll bring a printed list of all the GPG keys and fingerprints for each participant so that you only have to tick the ones that are correct and then sign them when you have some time (that could be right after the key signing party or at home once back). <<BR>>

I'll mainly follow this procedure for the keysigning : http://linuxreviews.org/howtos/gnupg/signingparty/ <<BR>>
You can find the current list here : <nowiki>[[http://www.stgraber.org/download/keysigning.html|keysigning.html]]</nowiki>

=== CAcert Accreditation details ===

''' What do I have to do prior the meeting? '''

You need to

* create your account at http://www.CAcert.org
* 'verify' your account by following the link in the ping-email (Beware of your spam-folder!)
* download and print the CAP (CAcert Assurance Program) Form. (See the sections below on how and where to download this form.

''' What do I have to bring to the meeting? '''

You need to bring 

* a signed copy of the CAP Form.
* You need to bring TWO pieces of ID like identity card, passport, driving licence, birth certificate, etc. At least ONE of them has to be a photo ID, both if possible.

''' Where do I get my personal CAP Form? '''

You can download the CAP Form ...

* pre-filled with your details:  <nowiki>[[https://www.cacert.org/wot.php]]</nowiki> - pick one of the WoT Forms in the navigation, after you have logged in.

''' How many Assurance Points will I get? '''

You will receive up to 35 Assurance Points.
 
 
== Infrastructure ==
=== Network ===
 {*} 48port gigabit switch for the wired part of the LAN.  -- <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} Mirror for Dapper, Edgy and Feisty (''deb'' only, no ''deb-src'') for i386, amd64, powerpc and sparc. I chose to leave hppa and ia64 out. -- <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} a box full of Cat5 cables, 5-7m maximum. Bring your own if you have a longer one. -- <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} a 802.11a/b/g WLAN Access Point to extend the LAN into the air -- <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} Cisco router to uplink to Dock18's LAN (optional) -- <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} two little 8 port Netgear Switches <nowiki>[[Emonkey]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} Several network cat5 cables <nowiki>[[Emonkey]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== Electricity ===
 {*} needed: a handful of power socket multipliers/power bars (aka "Steckdosen-Leisten")<<BR>>
   {*} I can bring one (x7) --TormodVolden<<BR>>
   {*} I can bring one too (5x) --Numer0bis<<BR>>
   {*} I can bring up to four power bars (4-6x) and one or two power cables. --<nowiki>[[Emonkey]]</nowiki><<BR>>
   {*} I can bring two (x6) and 2 power cables as well. --StéphaneGraber<<BR>>
   {*} two or three (x5) and a 25m cable reel -- <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== Other ===
 {*} nice to have: blackboard/whiteboard/flipchart if not provided by the facility we'll be using<<BR>>
 {*} Beamer --Lily<<BR>>
 {*} two more tables (provided by CCC ZH) --Lily<<BR>>
 {*} camping chairs (provided by CCC ZH !) I can bring some old and rusty ones too. --MyriamSchweingruber<<BR>>
 {*} money box for donations --MyriamSchweingruber<<BR>>
 {*} two 1GHz computers with 15''TFTs <nowiki>[[Emonkey]]</nowiki><<BR>>
 {*} a thinclient if i find it <nowiki>[[Emonkey]]</nowiki><<BR>>

== Food and drinks ==

Discussed on the <nowiki>[[/Ideas]]</nowiki> page for the moment.

== Attendees ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name / Wikiname'''
| '''Planned arrival time'''
| '''Planned departure time'''
| '''Means of transport'''
| '''Needs a lift'''
|-
| TormodVolden
| 12:00
| when Lily kicks us out
| train
| no
|-
| <nowiki>[[Netztier]]</nowiki>
| 12:00
| open end
| Car
| No, can give lift from Baden (1 person)
|-
| <nowiki>[[Emonkey]]</nowiki> +2
| ~15:00
| open end
| car
| no
|-
| ErwinHerrsche
| ~12:00
| open end
| train
| no
|-
| MyriamSchweingruber
| ~12:00
| open end
| car
| no, can give lifts from Bern
|-
| StéphaneGraber
| ~14:00
| ~22:00
| Car
| No
|-
| Pierre Graber
| ~14:00
| ~22:00
| Car
| No
|-
| ThomasBrunner
| ~14:00
| last train
| train
| no
|-
| Ruthenium
| ~15:00
| last train
| train
| no
|-
| AndrewLiyanage
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Lily
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| SilvanGebhardt
| ~12:00
| open end
| car (with MyriamSchweingruber)
| no
|-
| Dominik Zogg
| ~12:00
| open end
| car
| no
|-
| Otmar Hess
| ~12:00
| open end
| car
| no
|-
| Numer0bis + 6
| ~14:00
| ~22:00
| car
| no
|-
| Manuel Schmid
| 
| 
| train
| no
|-
| <nowiki>[[kiplantt]]</nowiki>
| ~13:00
| ~20:00
| Train
| From Lausanne
|-
| <nowiki>[[Sindwiller]]</nowiki>
| ~13:00
| ~22:00
| train or car
| Probably not, but my machine does :P
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.hagbart.com|Thomas Helfrich]]</nowiki>
| ~13.00
| open end
| car
| no, can give lifts from basel
|-
| Christian Folini
| 14.00
| open end
| unclear
| need a lift from Berne
|-
| RashundaTramble
| 19.00
| 22.00
| train/tram
| no
|}

'''If you plan to attend the release party, please add yourself to the list so we can organize for the best'''

== IRC meetings ==
 {*} (First meeting was April 2nd)<<BR>>
 {*} (Second meeting was April 5th)<<BR>>
 {*} (Third meeting was April 9th)<<BR>>
 {*} (Fourth meeting was April 10th)<<BR>>
 
== Comments ==
Please leave your comment below or on the brainstorming page here <nowiki>[[/Ideas]]</nowiki>

----
SwissTeam - for Ubuntu activities in Switzerland
