{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Natty Narwhal Release Party in Winterthur ===

The event took place at the 30th of April 2011 in Winterthur. The participants took the chance to get a surface impression of the new Unity desktop environment.

=== GNOME 3 Release Party in Zurich ===

To celebrate the release of GNOME 3 we organized a GNOME 3 launch party in Zurich. About 20 people met on Friday the 8th of April afternoon (3pm to 7pm) at the ETH in Zurich. Marcus Moeller gave a deep overview of the whole Gnome 3 desktop, with the strength and and possible weakness.

Afterwards there where some warm discussions about Canonicals decision to 'fork' GNOME and to deliver their own desktop environment '''Unity''' instead.

=== Ubuntu Global Jam Zurich 2011-04-01 ===

On 1st of April, we organized a Global Jam in Zurich. The main focus was to preview the Unity desktop environment (2D and 3D) and to find/report some bugs.

The event started at 3.00PM and ended at about 7.00PM. Besides ubuntu-ch members a few students showed up and activly took part.

We had several test machines, and also did test installs in virtual environments like VMWare Player / Virtualbox and reported a lot of bugs (~ 15). 
