{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== FLYER ===

* Work in progress
** suggestion for a one-side A6 (postcard) flyer
** using scribus-ng 1.3.3.4.dfsg-1
** <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-ch-flyer6.sla|ubuntu-ch-flyer6.sla source]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-ch-flyer6.pdf|ubuntu-ch-flyer6.pdf pdf]]</nowiki>

* printing instructions (in German) from <nowiki>[[http://www.flyerline.ch/upload/cms/user/Flyerline_Infoline_Datenanlieferung_02.20062.pdf|flyerline.ch]]</nowiki>

''Because of printing and/or shipping time the pdf should be sent by Febrary 23rd.''

* Task: Find prices for printing (->Bart: ''done'')
* Task: Ask www.ubuntu-fr.org if they already have flyers printed
      or if they have material pdf/etc we can use in French (->Antivirax) *1
* Task: Ask www.ubuntuusers.de if they have flyers printed
      or if they have material pdf/etc we can use in German

If printing is expensive, either we drop it, or we must find a sponsor.
The sponsor will be mentioned at the bottom of the flyer.

* Task: Find candidates for sponsors (e.g. at Ubuntu Marketplace)
* Task: (later) Ask the candidates

If ubuntu-fr and ubuntuusers.de can't help us, we just go on making our own.
There must be some already made flyers in e.g. English that we can translate,
or there are some short written presentations of Ubuntu we can use.

* Task: Find some flyers, or other texts presenting Ubuntu

Suggestion for flyer contents: (each point is one task)
* What is Ubuntu
* Why install Ubuntu
* How to get help
* Swiss Team contact persons on a map (->Rashunda: ''done'')
* Find logos/graphics to decorate

Final tasks
* Task: put the texts/graphics together into printable document
* Task: translate/clean up the French (->Antivirax: ''done'')
* Task: translate/clean up the German (->ErwinHerrsche: ''done'')
* Send to printing

===== Footnotes =====
* 1 Talk with Yann, leader of the Ubuntu-fr LoCo team.
