{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Swiss Team Header HOWTO ===

To increase the usability of complex wiki pages and sub-pages, one can include a header. This allows to show relevant and/or related links on top of a page in a table and makes the wiki browsable.
Other ways include a menu to be shown on the top right, recommended for long pages with many sections.

To make a header, use the following template:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:center; font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> {*} Item 1
| {*} Item 2
| {*} Item 3
| {*} Item 4
|}

If you want to emphasize, you can add an additional background color to the current Item:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:center; font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;">
| <style="background-color:#d9bb7a;"> {*} Current page
| {*} Link 1
| {*} Link 2
| {*} Link 3
|}
The latter of course only makes sense if you add background color to the other links in the relevant pge and keep the header content static.

One example can be found here: <nowiki>[[SwissTeam-Ideas-SwissPortal-Draft-Header|Swiss Portal Draft Header]]</nowiki>

Of course, we can also make additional design, but this should be discussed and agreed upon regarding the Swiss Team pages. --<nowiki>[[MyriamSchweingruber]]</nowiki>
