{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''TODO (wiki):'''
* Merge ideas from minutes into this page under "contributed ideas" (I started but I probably forgot / ommited lots - Tribaal)
* The minutes should remain a transcript of what was discussed (I know my ideas are merged with minutes, there should be put on this page too - Tribaal)
* Make a "Tasks" section, to see what people proposed to do, and merge from minutes (to prevent contacting the same group / newspaper twice and look like disorganised idiots :) )
* As usual, beautify everything

== List of meetings minutes ==
* <nowiki>[[SwissTeam/Meetings/15-01-2008]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SwissTeam/Meetings/23-01-2008]]</nowiki>

== Decisions ==
* Two parties
** One in '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ReleasePartyHardy/Lausanne|Lausanne]]</nowiki>''' on the '''17.05.2008'''
** One in '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ReleasePartyHardy/Zurich|Zürich]]</nowiki>''' on the '''24.05.2008'''

== Contributed ideas ==

=== Locations ===

* The ZHdK (Zurich University of the Arts) is sponsoring the use of one theory room and one hangout location (next to each other) at the Sihlquai 131 in Zürich, in the building currently serving the "Vertiefung Mediale Künste". Networking, fridge, coffee machine etc. are available.
* camptocamp is sponsoring a conference room (PSE-C) at EPFL. Networking and fridge available.

==== Zürich ====

* Parking spaces: http://map.search.ch/d/zy1njmzzw.en.html  (Only for Ubunteros, i.e. people who are part of the SwissTeam or speakers at the party. You need a special parking permit to park there. Contact <nowiki>[[PsyQ]]</nowiki> for one, they cost CHF 4.-- each and are valid for the whole day.)

=== Different contact groups: ===
* Digitale Allmend, "Freie Computer" (revamp-it.ch), Wilhelm Tux, SIUG, /ch/open, different LUG, GULL
* The Alternative (netztier: I've been with the people of The Alternative today. Their upcoming event will take place ''before'' the 8.04 Release, but we could market our release party as "next event for the infected", and do a bit of marketing for each other)
* piraten-partei.ch (we'll make an/some announcement on our homepage, as soon as dates and locations are fixed)
* ubuntuusers.de and kubuntu-de.org would probably make announcements too.
==== Lausanne announcements ====
* Le 24 heures (Emmanuel Barraud) '''done'''
* ATS-SDA (economie, online and lausanne) '''done'''
* le matin (Luc Petitfrère (technique)) '''done'''
* le matin bleu (Tristan Cerf) '''done'''
* nouvo TSR '''done'''
* Lausanne cités '''done'''
* 20 minutes (economie and vaud) '''done'''
* <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=214581|forum.ubuntu-fr.org]]</nowiki> + mail to admins '''<nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=214581|done]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org|ubuntu-party]]</nowiki> mail to admin (publication request) '''done'''
* Tink.ch ''Online Magazin from Young for Young'' '''Done'''
* Couleur 3 '''done'''
* RougeFM '''done'''
* Gnugeneration EPFL '''done'''
* Linuxfr.org '''<nowiki>[[http://linuxfr.org/2008/05/06/24035.html|done]]</nowiki>'''
* Association pour le Logiciel Libre de la HEIG-VD (all-eivd) '''done'''
* Swisslinux.org  '''<nowiki>[[http://forum.swisslinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=13354|done]]</nowiki>'''
* Tribune de Genève  '''done'''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.giti.ch/|GITI]]</nowiki> announcement '''done'''
* HEIG-VD students '''done'''
* Announcement on <nowiki>[[http://www.framasoft.net|framasoft.net]]</nowiki> '''<nowiki>[[http://forum.framasoft.org/viewtopic.php?t=29251|done]]</nowiki>'''
* Announcement on <nowiki>[[http://www.toolinux.com|toolinux.com]]</nowiki> ''' <nowiki>[[http://www.toolinux.com/news/communaute/la_fete_a_ubuntu_linux_le_17_mai_a_lausanne_ar10535.html|done]]</nowiki>'''
* News team at tsr <nowiki>[[http://www.tsrinfo.ch|tsrInfo]]</nowiki> '''done'''
* Announcement request sent to <nowiki>[[http://www.swissmedia.ch|swissmedia]]</nowiki> phone/mail '''done'''
* digg.com '''<nowiki>[[http://digg.com/linux_unix/SwissTeam_ReleasePartyHardy_Lausanne_wiki_ubuntu_com|done]]</nowiki>'''
* Announce-mailinglist of the GULL '''done'''
* Annoncement on http://planet.ubuntu-fr.org and http://www.planet-libre.org via '''<nowiki>[[http://achraf.cherti.name/blog/2008/05/07/annonce-ubuntu-804-hardy-heron-sera-fete-a-lausanne-en-suisse/|done]]</nowiki>'''

==== Zürich announcements ====

* ubuntuusers.de Opened a Thread, the Announce  i'll ask them to do it Monday the 19. May '''done'''
** Ikhaya will also publish this '''done''' <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuusers.de/ikhaya/1050/|announcement of the RP in Zurich]]</nowiki>
* The ZHdK's VMK blog (blog.vmk.zhdk.ch) '''done'''
* Digitale Allmend '''done'''
* gnupingu.ch ("Über Gnus und Pinguine") '''done'''
* 20 Minuten '''done'''
* Punkt CH (.ch) '''done'''
* Heute '''done'''
* Tink.ch (<nowiki>[[MoiraBrülisauer]]</nowiki>has done it) '''done''' (i sent it to the "Regionalredaktion ZH")
* züritipp '''done'''
* swisslinux.org
* Revamp-IT '''done'''
* /ch/open
* Live mention at <nowiki>[[http://www.ossanschulen.ch/|OSS an Schulen]]</nowiki> presentation on the same day '''done'''

=== Others ===
* There is a wiki page on organizing release parties here: BuildingCommunity/RunningReleaseParty
* The parties should be added to HardyReleaseParties as soon as the dates and locations are definitive. Done, -- MyriamSchweingruber 