{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== This is a minute of the #Ubuntu-ch meeting held on the 15th of Jan 2008. ==

Wiki-fairies, please make this beautiful and/or reorganise ;)

=== General management ===

	Meetings will be held every tuesdays from 21:00 CET until further notice.

=== Ubuntu Hardy release party: ===

==== 2 parties on each side of the « Röschtigraben » ====
* One west (Lausanne)
* One east (Zurich)
* proposed dates are 26.apr and 03.may – Dates ditribution TBD
* Timing: 15:00 to 21:00 for tech stuff. After 21:00: LAN and beers? (netztier: At ZHdK, there's technical staff and maybe also security people - and I think that 6hrs is enough)

==== Possible locations ====

* The ZHdK (Zurich University of the Arts) IT department would sponsor the use of their reasonably high-tech <nowiki>[[http://vortragssaal.zhdk.ch/|auditorium]]</nowiki>. It can acommodate 80 - 300 people depending on the furniture used. The IT center will cover any cost. Technicians to operate the light and audio system can be supplied. The room even has a 360° video projection system we could use to beam useful facts about Ubuntu at the walls in a slideshow (format 9952x768, use attached <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/ReleasePartyHardy/wings_template|template]]</nowiki>). Ask Ramon Cahenzli (ramon.cahenzli@zhdk.ch) if interested. '''Caveat: we need to book this room at least 2 months in advance''', otherwise it might already be taken.

==== Update website ====
* peppych proposed for the job! Thanks :)
* We need to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/Ideas/SwissPortal|brainstorm this]]</nowiki>
* Blog / news
* Contact
* Links to other ressources (wiki et al.)
==== Contact schools ====
* EPFL, ETH, HEIG-VD
==== Contact different groups: ====
* Digitale Allmend, "Freie Computer" (revamp-it.ch), Wilhelm Tux, SIUG, /ch/open, different LUG, GULL
* The Alternative (netztier: I've been with the people of The Alternative today. Their upcoming event will take place ''before'' the 8.04 Release, but we could market our release party as "next event for the infected", and do a bit of marketing for each other)
* ubuntuusers.de
* heise.de
* ubuntu-fr.org
* Swisslinux.org
* piraten-partei.ch (we'll make an/some announcement on our homepage, as soon as dates and locations are fixed)
==== Focus: ====
* This year we decided to focus on total newcomers to the linux world.
* Less focused on install party (but there should be the opportunity)
==== More demos of things you can do with Ubuntu ====
* Email
* Photo management
* Music collection sharing
* Nifty little apps (tomboy...)
* Digital camera (plug and play)
* printing/scanning
* Compiz/Fusion of course!
* Voip
* Video conf. (even from two demo machines sitting next to each other)
* Watching a DVD
* KDE 4! :)
* LTSP (this is more technical)
* Edubuntu (let's try to get a younger audience too?)
* Encrypted filesystems (USB keys). workshop?
* Using synaptic for system management (netztier: aka... "how can I install software?")
* World of Warcraft with WINE (for the WOW! effect :) )  (Needs fast nVidia graphics card. And also show Half-Life 2 if possible. Volunteers?)
* More speeches (Introduction to Ubuntu, what is free software, etc...)
** See with the FSF for material and tutorials on evangelizing
* Free software LAN party at the end (the very end):
** We dont' want only geeks but:
** We want to show that GNU/Linux can be a gaming platform)
** OpenArena (but let's make sure the nice new version is in Hardy repos first)
** UT as proprietary example?
** Tremulous?
** Battle for weshnot?
** Other games?
==== Proposed activities / Workshops / Speeches: ====
* Encrypted filesystem (WORKSHOP)
* Installation (of course, if needed) (WORKSHOP)
* Benefits of a 64bits system (SPEECH – stgraber/Tribaal)
* Would be nice to have a small business using only free software doing a case study speech? (SPEECH)
* What is PGP signing / encryption (SPEECH)
* Key signing party (Must include a key generation part, AND burning the cert to a CD) (WORKSHOP)
* What are the new features? (SPEECH)
* Lightning talks (SPEECH) Maybe this time one part of the speeches should be registered to speed things up? But people should be able to register on the spot)
==== Catch phrases for marketing: ====
* "You are bored of Vista, want better graphic effects, want something smoother, just give Ubuntu a try !!!"
* "You've heard about it. You've read about it. Now see it live and in Colour!"
==== Media to contact ====
* Matin bleu
* 20minutes
* pctipp
* Paid advertisement in matin bleu and 20 minutes (Tribaal will get a quote from them. But expect it to be extremely expensive.)
==== Radios (student radios from ETH / EPFL)? ====
==== Educate media of our existense ====
* like http://www.rsr.ch/la-1ere/on-en-parle/selectedDate/28/3/2006#mardi for example.
==== We need Cds to distribute! Lots of Cds! Tons of them! More Cds! AAAAAARG! ====
* See with canonical for Cds
* See with /ch/open for Swiss remixes? They were very welcome by users last time! The custom local flavor is a big marketing force :)
==== A united Ubuntu-ch t-shrit ====
* looks cool
* newbies will spot us more easily when looking for someone to talk to 
* All the same, or customized with our nicks? More expensive but looks cooler :)
==== Next meeting: Jan 22 ====

=== What wasn't discussed - or not enough – and should be in the next meeting: ===

The places :) 
we need to know for sure where the party is going to be held.
The scale of the event (50 persons per party of more like 500?)
