{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.25em;"><<BR>>
|}

=== Ubuntu Media ===

If you are in need of Ubuntu-Install-Media e.g. for an event, please get in touch with us. We offer a limited amount of LTS Media.

=== Marketing Material ===

We also have a small number of marketing material for events. You are able to request some of these goodies, by sending us an eMail, describing the event you are planning to attend. The exact number of goodies that we might give away for your event is decided by us, afterwards.

This is what we currently have in stock:

==== Items that can be hand out ====

* 2 x Meerkat Shirts XL/XXL
* 1 x Ubuntu-USB-Key in Creditcard form factor
* 27 x Lanyards
* 8 x Mixed Stickers
* 2 x The Official ubuntu Book

==== Items that need to be returned after the event ====

* 1 x large orange plane with the Ubuntu logo on it

==== Items that has ordered for a special event ====

* 1 x conf pack [April 2013]
* 150 Desktop + 25 Server CDs LTS (12.04) [April 2013]

==== Resources for printing ====

You will find different resources for printing on the <nowiki>[[SwissTeam-Artwork|Artwork]]</nowiki> wiki page.

==== Contact ====

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~waver|Hassan El Jacifi]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~liohmoeller|Lioh Moeller]]</nowiki> are responsible for the LoCo media management. To request media for an event or another reason, please join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-swiss-users|Ubuntu Swiss Team]]</nowiki> and send your request to the Ubuntu Switzerland <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ch|mailing list]]</nowiki>.
