{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu 18.04 release party in Bern ==

Let's get together and celebrate the next LTS release!

* <nowiki>[[https://www.puzzle.ch/blog/articles/2018/03/26/releaseparty-ubuntu-18-04-lts|Informationen in Deutsch im Blog von Puzzle ITC ]]</nowiki>

=== Date ===

* 26th of April 2018
* Program: 
** 17:30 Opening, Beer & Snacks
** 18:00 Presentations
** 19:00 Apéro riche/Pizza (offered by <nowiki>[[https://www.puzzle.ch|Puzzle ITC]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://www.adfinis-sygroup.ch|Adfinis SyGroup]]</nowiki>)

=== Location ===

* Puzzle ITC Office, Belpstrasse 37, 3007 Bern 
* <nowiki>[[https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=46.943593&mlon=7.43270#map=18/46.94358/7.43226|Location on OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki>

=== Talks and Presentations ===

Start: 18:00

==== Worldwide Solution for managing Ubuntu Desktops ====
* Topic: Global Solution for managing Ubuntu Desktops at <nowiki>[[https://www.roche.ch/standorte/rotkreuz.htm|Roche Diagnostics international AG]]</nowiki>
* Speaker: Eric Keller, Roche & <nowiki>[[https://www.adfinis-sygroup.ch|Adfinis SyGroup]]</nowiki>
* Content: At Roche Diagnostics international AG, the development environment for the instrument control layer is based on Linux. Starting with Ubuntu 8.04, to the upcoming 18.04 LTS, I would like to present the transition from a local (Rotkreuz) to a global (worldwide) solution. What where the challenges? How did we create a modern development environment based on Ubuntu Linux.

==== Hardware Evaluation of Notebooks and Dockingstations ====
* Topic: Hardware Evaluation of Notebooks and Dockingstations for the Standard Workstation at <nowiki>[[https://www.puzzle.ch|Puzzle ITC]]</nowiki>
* Speaker: Tim Herren, <nowiki>[[https://www.puzzle.ch|Puzzle ITC]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Touch on Phones ====
* Topic: Ubuntu Touch on Phones <nowiki>[[https://ubports.com/|UBports]]</nowiki>
* Speaker: Andreas Zuber, <nowiki>[[https://www.puzzle.ch|Puzzle ITC]]</nowiki>

==== LXD - The Comfort of VMs with the speed of Containers ====
* Topic: Demonstration of <nowiki>[[https://linuxcontainers.org/lxd/introduction/|LXD]]</nowiki> - The Comfort of VMs with the speed of Containers. 
* Speaker: Philipp Gassmann, <nowiki>[[https://www.puzzle.ch|Puzzle ITC]]</nowiki>

=== Who is invited? ===

* Ubuntu users of Switzerland. 

Especially welcome are:

* User Groups and Open Source and Free Software Groups 
   LugBE, FSFE, Parldigi, CH Open, Gul, swisslinux, why!, debian.ch
* Developer Companies that use Ubuntu for Software Development/Deployment

=== Registration ===

The event is open to all, but a short notification to the <nowiki>[[mailto:backoffice@puzzle.ch|Puzzle ITC Backoffice (backoffice@puzzle.ch)]]</nowiki> will help us organise enough food and seats.

=== ------------------------- ===

==== (Planning) Ideas ====

Following topics were discussed at the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/20180216Meetup|February Meetup]]</nowiki>

As discussed on the mailling list and at the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/20180216Meetup|February Meetup]]</nowiki>
Puzzle ITC suggested they could host the release party again in Bern, as they did 10 years ago!

* Apéro and Beer offered by Puzzle ITC
* Short Presentations, Lightning Talks (topics tbd. )
   topic Ideas:
** Gaming on Ubuntu (steam)
** ... (present a cool app, share something you learned or discovered about Ubuntu)

* Selling Ubuntu T-Shirts etc?
* Distribute Ubuntu Goodies
* Install café?
* Video-Connection to another Ubuntu Party in some country?
* Keysigning Party (if enough are interested)
* Ubuntu Gaming Showcase Computer for hands-on.
