{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Maverick Meercat Release Parties ==

=== Organisation ===

==== IRC Meetings ====

==== Date and Locations ====

Autumn, TBA, several locations all over Switzerland.

==== Ideas ====

Since the release is in Autumn, this would be the occasion to organize several small parties in Universities and High Schools, or in venues close to and invite students specifically.

===== Material =====

CDs if necessary, we can hand out the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SwissTeam/UbuntuSwissRemix|SwissRemix]]</nowiki> with the possibility (and instructions how) to upgrade easily.

===== Crew T-shirts =====

How about creating Team T-Shirts for those interested? It would of course need a minimum to print to reduce the price, but would be a very nice addition and contribute to the team building.

===== Posters / Flyers designs =====

Ask Iris if she can create a poster/flyer.

===== Flyer "Why to use Ubuntu" =====

Maybe we could hand out a flyer together with the Ubuntu CDs, on which some reasons are stated why to use Ubuntu, targeted primarily at non-Linux users. This could be a good source for ideas: http://www.whylinuxisbetter.net/

Also, another Flyer (or a section on the same one) with a collection of places to search help with Ubuntu (LUGs, Forums, Websites, IRC, Mailinglists etc) would be great.

==== Press and other contacts ====

Please add all Press contacts and other contacts through which we can spread invitations. For press contacts please specify if it is a local or a Swiss wide contact.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Contact name
| Mail or link
| Regional/Switzerland wide?
| Who contacts them?
| Contact made
|}
