{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== keysigning party details ====

* ''What to do:''
  1. Bring with you several[1] copies[2] of your GPG key signature. Your printout should look something like this: {{{
--------------------------------------------------------
stgraber@laptop:~$ gpg --list-keys --fingerprint stgraber@ubuntu.com
pub   1024D/48C186EC 2007-01-02
      Key fingerprint = 5137 F453 26D1 DE6E 9C64  8829 8F1C 9FAA 48C1 86EC
uid                  Stéphane Graber <stgraber@stgraber.org>
uid                  Stéphane Graber <stgraber@ubuntu.com>
sub   2048g/64BA7B67 2007-01-02
--------------------------------------------------------}}}
## Bring with you the strongest form of photo identification[3] that you have available.
## You will receive further instructions at the keysigning.
## Once at home, or after the party use caff from the signing-party package to sign the keys and send them by mail (require a working "sendmail" command on your local system)

[1] You will need one printout of your fingerprint for every person you want to sign your key. Somewhere between 20-30 copies may be reasonable.

[2] I'm not sure if whether or not we'll have access to a laser printer, so please think of printing your fingerprint at home.

[3] At the keysigning you will choose what types of ID you consider acceptable, so (for example) a passport is better than a driver's license because more people are likely to accept it and agree to sign your key.
