{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Notes from UDS Lucid discussion:

== Symbolic icons ==

In karmic, we used '-panel' to signify icons meant for 'symbolic' icons (monochrome)

Other places we want simple, mostly-monochrome icons:
* Software Center search magnifying glass icons (vs. more complex search icon elsewhere)
* Clear-text-field icon (vs. more colorful, 3-D clear icon in toolbars etc)
* List-view header icons (?)
* Either side of a slider (e.g. Zoom Out / Zoom In in F-Spot)
* Chromium uses all custom icons by default just so that its toolbar can be all monochrome
* etc

Proposal is to use a -symbolic namespace
* themes can support it if they want to, otherwise it will fall back to the non-symbolic version

What about icons working on both white and black backgrounds?
* A separate namespace means that toolkits can treat the icon colors differently.
** But applications don't always know what the background color is

Solved for text by using (e.g.) text[NORMAL] or fg[NORMAL].
When drawing icons with code, we can use cairo with foreground color.

=== Actions ===

* Need to define certain names that will be colored by renderers
** Define a name for say, the red in the battery icon (a 'warning' color), that can be passed into rsvg
* implement named color handling in rsvg
* Make sure that panel-theme inheritance works correctly (some themes theme the panel differently, like Dust)
* Add (Single-paragraph?) addendum to the icon naming specification
* Write a reference on how to create SVGs that use the named color

perl script in icon-flow to replace a certain color with text[NORMAL]

== Animations ==

We don't have a good story for it
* apng doesn't have good tools
* mng isn't well supported

Need some way of animating SVGs
* could be slices like the faux-animated PNGs we use now

== FDO ==
http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/SymbolicIcons
