{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/synaptic-packages-descriptions-localisation
* '''Created''':  by Tenshu
* '''Contributors''': Tenshu
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Find a way to support localisation for packages descriptions in Synaptic.
=== Rationale ===
Ubuntu slogan is "Linux for human beings",
We all know that all human beings aren't speaking english.
Therefore they can encounter difficulties using synaptic.
=== Use cases ===
* Takumi a young Japanese don't know anything about English. He is thinking that Synaptic is not really efficient and/or user friedly.
* Alexandre a French student - studying english at school but not fluent - misunderstood the description of a package. And finally install the wrong one.
* Rafa a young Spanish experienced linux user wants to introduce his old parents to Ubuntu. The system of his father is localised in Spanish, and his mother system in Catalan... but both of them get very confused when they want to install software with synaptic because, despite this is very easy, they don't know which are the "key" words they have to use to find the software they want. They will never imagine that "browser" is "navegador" (Browser sounds more like the Super Mario final boss :P).
=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

On debian it's called DDTP : http://ddtp.debian.org (Phlogistique)
----
CategorySpec
