{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/knownpackagesinstallation
* '''Created''':  by AlexanderDomanski
* '''Contributors''': AlexanderDomanski
* '''Packages affected''': synaptic

=== Summary ===
We should provide a simple dialog in Synaptic where you can enter the packages to install. Atm Synaptic ist not very  convenient if you want to install packages you know the name of. A simple dialog with only a text box could make stuff easier and faster.

=== Use cases ===
Many people prefer the command line utilities to install a few packages with known names as it is faster. A small dialog in Synaptic and standalone would make such things easier for newbies as they often get to install »hjhflk dfhjlk owzpoz fdhjklhf oifhjwhfn izqwphdw oqienf sahjla-dev jhdlkas wljkhad and hlkjdnhkjql«. Searching all these in Synaptic is time taking. It would be easier to copy & paste the package names and click »install«. Also a small standalone script would be nice for the people who usually use the command line.  

=== Design ===
Synaptic integrated:
1. Edit->Mark a list of packages
2. A small dialog opens and one enters or copies the names of the packages
3. One clicks on »Mark for installation« or »Mark for removal« and then continues as usual.

Standalone (not to be in the menu!):
1. Press ALT+F2 to open the GNOME minicli
2. Enter »gcapt packagename packagename packagename packagename«
3. A window opens and aks for the password.
4. If the password was correct another window opens and asks if the packages should be installed or removed.
5. Packages get installed/removed using the Synaptic backend (as in update-manager).
----
CategorySpec
