{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

SynCE framework makes possible synchronization between linux and hand-held/mobiles with Windows CE/Mobile.

=== Release Note ===

SynCE 0.10 provides Windows Mobile 5 synchronization. Ubuntu should update to synCE 0.10.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu should provide synchronization support with most of the mobiles/hand-helds.

=== Use Cases ===

* Carlos wants to copy a photo that he shot from his Windows Mobile 5 Smartphone. He plugs the cell phone at usb and Ubuntu mounts the folder.
* Joana wants to backup her contacts from her hand-held. She plugs it at usb port and Ubuntu gives her an option to synchronize with evolution.

=== Assumptions ===

After synce would be nice to update opensync.

=== Design ===

We should provide out-of-box support with most of the mobiles.

=== Implementation ===

We will bring every synce component and make it easy to use.
Initial packaging at http://jonnylamb.com/debian/

Base libs:

* librapi2 (upgrade)
    Make RAPI calls to a Windows Mobile device, runtime libraries
    This library is equivalent to rapi.dll on a Windows machine. It allows you
    to make remote calls to your Windows Mobile device.

    REVU: http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=5699

* libsynce (upgrade)
    Helper library for SynCE, a tool to sync Windows Mobile devices
    The purpose of the SynCE project is to provide a means of communication with
    a Windows Mobile, or Windows CE, device from a computer running Linux,
    FreeBSD or a similar operating system.

    REVU: http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=5239

* librra (upgrade)
    Library for synchronisation with Windows Mobile devices
    rra provides the necessary low level magic to synchronise intelligently
    with Windows Mobile devices, allowing you to tell what's been
    created/changed/deleted since the last time the device was contacted.

    REVU: http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=5698

Tools:

* odccm (new)

* synce-serial (upgrade)

* vdccm (upgrade)

Other libs:

* librtfcomp (new)

* pywbxml (new)

* synce-gnome (new)

* synce-sync-engine (new)

* wbxml2 (new)

* synce-gnomevfs (new)

Kernel modules:

* synce-usb-rndis-lite (new)
    Could be replaced with a little kernel patch.

* synce-usb-rndis-ng (new)

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

Kernel 2.6.22rc3 needs a little patch to support Windows Mobile 5 out-of-box.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
