{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:sysadmin-framework-eval-criteria
* '''Created''': 2007-06-04 by MathiasGug

=== Summary ===
There are a lot of system administration frameworks out there. This spec defines common criteria to evaluate and compare them.

'''''IT DOESN'T COVER THE ACTUAL COMPARISON OF PRODUCTS. This is done in SysAdminFrameworkEvaluation.'''''

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu tries to simplify the end user experience. In order to simplify the administration of Ubuntu servers a system administration framework should be provided. There are a lot of products there - thus the need to compare them against common criteria.

=== Use Cases ===
* Alice has discovered a new system management framework and wants to compare it to others.
* Bob was asked by management if he could look into the product super-admin-framework to see if it can be integrated as a management tool into Ubuntu server. 

=== Design ===

Define a list of criteria that should be evaluated.

Provide a common place to summarize the evaluation of the different frameworks and compare them.

=== Implementation ===

==== List of criteria ====

* Overview :
** In which language(s) is the product written ?
     Ex: python, perl, ruby, c, java.
** Which other components/products/packages are needed ?
     Ex: mysql, postgresql, ldap, an xml parser.
** Which platform is targeted ?
     Ex: linux, debian.
** Which license is used ?
     Ex: GPL, BSD, Commercial.

* Packaging :
** How does upstream distribute the product ?
     Ex: a tar file.
** Does upstream provide packages ?
     Ex: package for debian, ubuntu.

* Frontend :
** What type of frontend is provided ? 
*** Web interface:
***** Is it possible to modify the look'n'feel of the interface ? How ?
          Ex: change the css file in the template directory.
*** Graphical UI:
***** Which environment is used ?
          Ex: gnome, kde, gtk, qt, Xlib.
*** Console UI:
***** Which environment is used ?
          Ex: ncurses.
*** Command line interface:
          Ex: via bash script, perl script.
** How is user management handled ?
*** What type of user authentication is supported ?
       Ex: ldap, password file.
*** Does it support access control ?
       Ex: Alice can configure service A and B. Bob can only configure B.

* Backend :
** Is there a clear separation of the backend and the frontend ? How ?
     Ex: Uses a client/server model.
** Is it possible to have multiple frontends ?
** How does the framework handle configuration modifications done in other ways?
     Ex: the dhcpd.conf file has been edited by hand. Will the framework overwrite it ? How will the framework react ?
** How is the configuration stored ?
     Ex: xml file, directly in the configuration files.
** How are the local configuration files generated ?
     Ex: template engine (which one).

* Other features:
** Does the framework support multiple server management ?
*** Which protocol is used to communicate between servers ?
** Does the framework support rollback to previous configurations ?
** Is it possible to view changes between two configurations ?
** Is it possible to view which modifications are going to be applied before committing them ?
** Is there an auditing system that logs which actions have been done by whom ?
** How can a new service be added to the framework ?

==== Evaluation summary location ====

A wiki page : SysAdminFrameworkEvaluation.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
'''DO NOT LIST PRODUCTS THAT SHOULD BE EVALUATED. USE THE WIKI PAGE SysAdminFrameworkEvaluation TO DO THAT.'''''

----
CategorySpec
