{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:sysklogd-to-rsyslog
* '''Created''': NickBarcet
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': sysklogd, ryslog

=== Summary ===

Should <nowiki>[[http://www.rsyslog.com/|rsyslog]]</nowiki> replace sysklogd in main and as default for new installation?

=== Release Note ===

Rsyslog now replaces sysklogd on new installations in ubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

* Corporate usage of of centralized logging often requires:
** Guaranteed delivery of event: events should not be lost because of some TCP/UDP failure. Sysklogd does not provide this.
** Secured delivery of events: events can contain sensitive information so should be encrypted when sent over the network, sysklogd does not provide this.
** Event analysis framework: Central syslog server should be able to send email alerts on some conditions, sysklogd does not support this
** Database backend: in order to perform rapid searches, a database backend is crucial

* sysklogd Upstream seems weak, if not dead

* Other distros have already made this choice:
** Fedora has led the way of distributions in this sense and was the first to do the <nowiki>[[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/FeatureRsyslog|switch to rsyslog]]</nowiki>.
** Debian has made the <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/linux.debian.bugs.dist/browse_thread/thread/c26b7f36b4f54caa/7a18c76338e9fdc6?lnk=gst&q=rsyslog+sysklogd#7a18c76338e9fdc6|same choice in lenny]]</nowiki>.

=== Use Cases ===

* Clara needs a central syslog server that does not lose events to be compliant with industry policies
* Edward is afraid that events sent to his central syslog server may be sniffed and disclose confidential company information
* Ray needs to audit events occurring in his company and craves for indexes searches to do so

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
