{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Szilveszter Farkas (aka. phanatic) ===

==== Contact ====

* Email:  * Blog (in Hungarian): http://phanatic.hu/ in English: http://phanatic.hu/archives/category/english/
* IRC: phanatic @ irc.freenode.net (#ubuntu-hu, #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-devel and #bzr)
* ICQ: 119118300
* MSN: info AT psoftwares DOT hu
* Jabber (Google Talk): szilveszter DOT farkas AT gmail DOT com
* Skype: phanatic86 (rarely available)
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/phanatic|phanatic]]</nowiki>

==== Contributions to OSS in the past ====
* <nowiki>[[http://nanoweb.si.kz/|Nanoweb]]</nowiki>: PostgreSQL authentication module, unofficial Debian packages (see <nowiki>[[http://linux.psoftwares.hu/nanoweb/|here]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.blackpanther.hu/|blackPanther OS]]</nowiki>: Hungarian Linux distribution, some little hacks on scripts written in Perl
* <nowiki>[[http://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/nanoftpd/|nanoFTPd]]</nowiki>: FTP server written in PHP, more like a PoC than a serious thing, needs time to enhance features, but no time for it now :)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.xams.org/|XAMS]]</nowiki>: first unofficial Debian packages (see <nowiki>[[http://rpmseek.com/rpm-pl/xams.html?hl=com&cx=857:X:0|here]]</nowiki>), Hungarian translation
* <nowiki>[[http://gtk2-perl.sourceforge.net/|Gtk2-Perl]]</nowiki>: first unofficial Debian packages (see <nowiki>[[http://mail.gnome.org/archives/gtk-perl-list/2003-March/msg00045.html|here]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/gbzr|gbzr]]</nowiki>: Bazaar-NG GUI wriitten in GTK2-Perl

==== Contributions to Ubuntu ====

* Organizer of the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/545|Hungarian Ubuntu Conference 2006]]</nowiki>.
* Google SummerofCode2006 student (proposal title: ''Graphical User Interface for Bazaar-NG version control system (bzr-gui)''). Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/olive/+spec/bzr-ui|spec]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/olive/|product]]</nowiki> page. <nowiki>[[http://bazaar-vcs.org/Olive|Homepage of Olive.]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Member (since 7th March 2006)
* Hungarian translations (member of HungarianTeam)
* Comment on bug <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=11813|#11813]]</nowiki>
* Reported bugs: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/launchpad/+bug/3617|#3617]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/products/launchpad/+bug/3618|#3618]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/debconf/+bug/28609|#28609]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/libgtk2-perl/+bug/28719|#28719]]</nowiki>
* Bugs fixed: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/openntpd/+bug/34890|#34890]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/pureadmin/+bug/43451|#43451]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/podbrowser/+bug/43454|#43454]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/perlpanel/+bug/43456|#43456]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/potracegui/+bug/43524|#43524]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/oooqs/+bug/43527|#43527]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/psi/+bug/43534|#43534]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/perlpanel/+bug/43673|#43673]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/mateedit/+bug/43859|#43859]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/labplot/+bug/43865|#43865]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/swscanner/+bug/43874|#43874]]</nowiki>
* Launched the Hungarian Ubuntu Linux Community site: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu|ubuntu.hu]]</nowiki> - it provides informations in many topics (mainly based on the Hungarian translation of the Ubuntu Guide, but extended), such as howtos, faqs, and install instructions for laptops (wiki-style, and a forum is also available).
* Helped to organize the first Hungarian Ubuntu Translation Weekend (2006-02-11/12) - since then we have Translation Weekends every month.
* Presenting Ubuntu on local TV (<nowiki>[[http://www.fixtv.hu|fix.tv]]</nowiki>, Linuxport치l live show): Introduction (2006-02-01), Installing and Updating (2006-02-08), Settings (2006-02-22), Multimedia (2006-03-01)
* Talked about Ubuntu on local radio (<nowiki>[[http://www.fikszradio.hu|Fikszr치di칩]]</nowiki>, Linuxport치l, 2006-02-13)
* Package(s) in REVU: <nowiki>[[http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=1705|ubuntu-grub-splashimages]]</nowiki>
* Package(s) in universe: <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/utils/gnome-rdp|gnome-rdp]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/search_packages.pl?searchon=names&version=all&exact=0&keywords=nanoweb|nanoweb]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/utils/sysinfo|sysinfo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/perl/libgtk2-sourceview-perl|libgtk2-sourceview-perl]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/devel/olive|olive]]</nowiki>

==== Planned contributions to Ubuntu ====

* MOTU packaging
* Community related stuff

==== About me ====

I'm a 20-year-old student from Hungary. I'm spending my second year at the Technical University of Budapest (nowadays called Budapest University of Technology and Economics). I installed my first Linux distro (Debian) about 6 years ago. Then I used SuSE, Mandrake and Red Hat before sticking to Debian again (suited the most for me). Since Hoary do I use Ubuntu, and I'm very satisfied with it so far (that's why I decided to contribute in some way: I began with translating into Hungarian - GaborKelemen: thanks for your support). In the future I'd like to contribute more: packaging, testing, and some community related stuff.

----
CategoryHomepage
