{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Contact information ==

'''Name''': Søren Bredlund Caspersen

'''Nationality''': Danish

'''Location''': Copenhagen, Denmark

'''Email''': soeren-b-c@ubuntu.com

'''IRC''': sbc @ freenode.net

'''Launchpad page''': https://launchpad.net/~soeren-b-c

'''Web site''': http://compadre.dk/blog/

=== Project Involvement ===

Editor of the 'Projekt: Ubuntu' part of the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum/viewforum.php?f=16&st=0&sk=t&sd=d&start=0|Danish forum]]</nowiki>.

Have served several times as the chair of the monthly IRC meetings of the DanishTeam and done the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minutes|minutes]]</nowiki> after meetings. (Minutes: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2007-May/000418.html|meeting 2]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2007-July/000461.html|meeting 3]]</nowiki><nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2007-October/000650.html|meeting 6]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2007-December/000769.html|meeting 8]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2008-January/000811.html|meeting 9]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2008-March/000845.html|meeting 11]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-dk/2008-May/000931.html|meeting 13]]</nowiki>)

Part of the group that put together the Danish <nowiki>[[DanishTeam-Arrangementer-HardyReleaseParty|HardyReleaseParty]]</nowiki> in Århus. (Event with approximately 45-50 participants. <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/dk_spook/sets/72157604740751047/|Pictures]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.modspil.dk/nyheder/ubuntu_8_04_release_party_1.html|and]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.bagkameraet.dk/2008/04/26/ubuntu-804-lts-release-party/|blog]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://martinpihl.dk/words/succesfuldt-804-lts-release-party|posts]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://compadre.dk/blog/2008/04/27/hardy-heron-release-party-i-arhus/|here]]</nowiki> - all blog posts in Danish.)

Member of 'Styregruppen' (the steering group) of the DanishTeam: September 2007 - present

Working on turning the DanishTeam into a Forening (association). Progress <nowiki>[[DanishTeam-Møder-UbuntuDKsomForening|here]]</nowiki> (in Danish).

Part of the group to organize the coming <nowiki>[[DanishTeam-Arrangementer-IntrepidReleaseParty|IntrepidReleaseParty]]</nowiki> in Copenhagen.

Bug reports get filed when ever an application crashes. General advocating of FOSS software.

=== Plans for Ubuntu in the future ===

I hope to involve myself in the MarketingTeam and the new <nowiki>[[Nordic|Nordic]]</nowiki> team.

=== Support for membership ===

MartinPihl (Ubuntu member):
Søren has indeed been a great asset to the Danish LoCo team. His LoCo work cannot be underestimated and his Project Involvement list does not make justice to the the actual work he has been putting in the the Danish LoCo team for a quite a while. It is not an exaggeration to say, that the Danish LoCo team would have been much smaller and much less coherent without Sørens hard work on activities which binds the Team together - such as coordinating much of the activities. I certainly support Sørens membership, because such stable, dedicated and long-term commitment to Ubuntu should be rewarded. Søren will make a fine example for others to follow.

----
CategoryHomepage
