{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Methods ===

From easier (1) to the more difficult (4):

* 1)  Click on System > Administration > Update Manager > Click on Check button > Apply all updates including kernel.
* 2) Use <nowiki>[[Synaptic]]</nowiki>, search for linux-image and select the generic kernel version you want to install (i.e. linux-image-2.6.xx-yy-generic). 
* 3) <nowiki>[[Kernel-Compile|Compile the kernel]]</nowiki>.
* 4) Run the following Terminal commands to install a new 32-bit Ubuntu kernel from http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/ 

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install python-bs4
</pre>
<pre>
cd /tmp
</pre>
<pre>
rm -rf medigeek-kmp*
</pre>
<pre>
wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/medigeek/kmp-downloader/tarball/master -O kmpd.tar.gz
</pre>
<pre>
tar xzf kmpd.tar.gz
</pre>
<pre>
cd medigeek-*
</pre>
<pre>
python kmpd.py -d
</pre>

The script at https://github.com/medigeek/kmp-downloader/ does not seem to allow choosing amd64 (64-bit) architecture. It only allows installing i386 (32-bit) architecture. This seems like a bug to me. Just press <ENTER> instead of a number if you get stuck on a certain question in the python script.

=== Roll-back and uninstallation ===
You can roll back by selecting the previous (old) kernel at the boot menu and then uninstall the (new) not working kernel.

With <nowiki>[[Synaptic]]</nowiki> you can uninstall previously installed kernel packages.

=== See also ===
* <nowiki>[[Kernel]]</nowiki>

-----
CategoryKernel 
