{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== KeyTouch - The easy way to enable multimedia-keys! ===

This guide will explain the installation and configuration of the two basic KeyTouch tools. Keytouch allows the selection of profiles to select your keyboard model from a list in its database. If your keyboard is not present, you can "train" it by starting up keytouch editor and pressing the relevant keys whilst identifying them.  

It comprises of two tools:
* '''KeyTouch''' - The tool to setup a keyboard that is already in the database. Currently supported models are listed in a table at the bottom of this page.

* '''KeyTouch-Editor''' - The tool to setup your keyboard by teaching it. You select your multimedia keyboards input, then press keys and identify them from a drop down list. Save the configuration file when your done and simply import into Keytouch itself^.

=== Installing KeyTouch & KeyTouch Editor ===

Open a terminal and enter these commands:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install keytouch keytouch-editor
</pre>

=== Using KeyTouch ===

You should now be able to find '''KeyTouch''' under System > Administration.

On initial startup, you'll be asked for the model of your keyboard. Select from the list of supported models and click "OK". You'll then be taken to the ''Key settings'' tab where some keys will be filled in with default values. You can switch these around or enter custom program launchers or common actions (e.g. Copy, Paste, Redo, Close Window, etc). Extra plugins with actions for specific programs are available in the ''Preferences'' tab. In the ''Keyboard'' tab you can switch your selected keyboard (requires a program restart).

=== Using KeyTouch-Editor ===

You can find '''KeyTouch-Editor''' under System > Administration.

In Ubuntu 8.10 the '''KeyTouch-Editor''' launcher is found under System > Preferences.

On initial startup, you'll be asked to choose from a list of inputs, KeyTouch will name them. Try all of the inputs which look similarly named to your device, as often you have more than one listed (Extra function keys are usually listed on the second input, while your main keyboard will use the first input, both should be similarly named). After you select an input it will ask you to push all of the multimedia keys, until one is detected, just to make sure you have indeed selected the right input.  You'll then be taken to the ''Key settings'' tab where you can add keys, simply by pressing them and identifying them. Some keys will be filled in with default values (Information is gleaned from inputs manufacturers have named). You can switch these around or enter custom program launchers or common actions (e.g. Copy, Paste, Redo, Close Window, etc). Extra plugins with actions for specific programs (eg. Amarok Music Player) can be used.When its done and you have configured all the buttons Keytouch can detect, simply save it to your desktop. Then open up Keytouch and click import, find that file on your desktop and import it. Then select your keyboard model on the list (the one you have now added!) and you can now use keytouch to configure/change what the keys do.

=== Getting help ===

See the KeyTouch project page for the latest full documentation: http://keytouch.sourceforge.net/doc.php
PDF Manual: http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/keytouch/keytouch-2.2-user_manual.pdf?download
HTML Manual: http://keytouch.sourceforge.net/user_manual/user_manual.html

=== Supported Keyboard Models ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Manufacturer'''
| '''Model'''
|-
| A4 Tech
| KL-23MU
|-
| A4 Tech
| iKeyWorks Office (KB-8)
|-
| Acer
| Aspire 1360
|-
| Acer
| Aspire 1520
|-
| Acer
| Aspire 3500
|-
| Acer
| TravelMate 290
|-
| Acer
| TravelMate 4100
|-
| BTC
| 8193
|-
| BTC
| 9000A
|-
| BTC
| 9116
|-
| Cherry
| CyMotion Expert
|-
| Cherry
| CyMotion Master Linux
|-
| Cherry
| CyMotion Master Solar
|-
| Cherry
| CyMotion Master Xpress
|-
| Cherry
| CyMotion PRO keyboard
|-
| Cherry
| CyMotion Plus9
|-
| Cherry
| Cybo@rd G83-13000
|-
| Compaq
| KB-0133
|-
| Compaq
| PS2 home professional keyboard
|-
| Compaq
| v4000T
|-
| Dell
| Inspiron 2500
|-
| Dell
| Inspiron 4000
|-
| Dell
| Inspiron 6000
|-
| Dell
| Latitude D505
|-
| Dell
| Latitude D800
|-
| Dell
| Precision M70
|-
| EzKey
| Smart Keyboard Ez-3000
|-
| EzKey
| Smart Keyboard Ez-9900
|-
| Fujitsu-Siemens
| Amilo 1437
|-
| Fujitsu-Siemens
| Amilo 2030
|-
| Genius
| Comfy KB-09e (KB-0138)
|-
| Genius
| Comfy KB-21e (KL-0210)
|-
| Genius
| K361 & KB-18M
|-
| Genius
| KB-0210
|-
| Genius
| KKB-2050 SlimStar
|-
| HP
| H7630
|-
| HP
| Omnibook XE3
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV1000
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV4335
|-
| HP
| Pavilion ZE2000
|-
| HP
| Pavilion ZV5000
|-
| HP
| SK-2511A
|-
| Labtec
| Internet Keyboard
|-
| Labtec
| Media Wireless Desktop (Y-RAE68)
|-
| Labtec
| Wireless Desktop Edge
|-
| Logitech
| Access Keyboard
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Access Keyboard
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Desktop Express
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Desktop LX 500
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Desktop LX 501
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Desktop LX 700
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Desktop MX 5000 (USB)
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless DEsktop Optical (Y-RK56A
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Desktop Pro
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Keyboard (Y-RE20
|-
| Logitech
| Cordless Navigator
|-
| Logitech
| Deluxe Access
|-
| Logitech
| Deluxe Plus
|-
| Logitech
| EX110
|-
| Logitech
| Internet Keyboard
|-
| Logitech
| Internet Keyboard (Y-ST39
|-
| Logitech
| Internet Navigator
|-
| Logitech
| MX3100 (Y-RR54 RT7R33)
|-
| Logitech
| MX 3000
|-
| Logitech
| Media Keyboard (LX 300)
|-
| Logitech
| Media Keyboard Elite
|-
| Logitech
| Office Comfort Keyboard
|-
| Logitech
| Office Pro Keyboard (Y-SAB59)
|-
| Logitech
| UltraX (Y-SX49
|-
| Logitech
| Y-RK49
|-
| Logitech
| diNovo Cordless Desktop for Notebooks
|-
| Manta
| MM909
|-
| Microsoft
| Comfort Curve Keyboard
|-
| Microsoft
| Digital Media Keyboard
|-
| Microsoft
| Internet Keyboard
|-
| Microsoft
| Multimedia Keyboard 1.0
|-
| Microsoft
| Natural Multimedia Keyboard
|-
| Microsoft
| Office Keyboard
|-
| Microsoft
| Wireless Comfort Keyboard 1.0
|-
| Microsoft
| Wireless Desktop Elite Keyboard
|-
| Microsoft
| Wireless Multimedia Keyboard 1.0
|-
| Nec
| Versa P550
|-
| Promedion
| D47K
|-
| Samsung
| SDM4500P
|-
| Samsung
| SDR4000
|-
| Samsung
| SDR5000
|-
| Sony
| PCVA-KB1P
|-
| Sony
| TX1HP - AV Mode
|-
| Speed Link
| Illuminated Metall (SL-6466) (USB)
|-
| Sweex
| SW-23
|-
| Toshiba
| Satellite 2430
|-
| Trust
| 3011A Wireless Optical Desktop
|-
| Trust
| KB-2100E
|-
| Turbo-Media
| KB-9801R+
|}
