{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Is there a quick way to turn Ubuntu Linux on a multimedia kiosk terminal. <<BR>>
A terminal is not only run a browser in full screen, but should contain much more than that. <<BR>> <<BR>>
Used to secure public access to libraries, bookstores, universities, schools, hotels, airports and terminals during events. <<BR>>
Even better if you can use a browser that is constantly updated. Here we highlight the Firefox browser for Ubuntu Linux. Simply install it, an additional plugin and ready! The name of this plugin is mKiosk. <<BR>>
Public Firefox Kiosk Mode with optional Tabs Guides for Access Point. Complete solution. Block downloads/addon, bookmarks, reset kiosk inactivity, retry on errors, restricted interface, show favorites as buttons and more! USERS ONLY ADMINISTRATORS! <<BR>>
See this in: https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/mkiosk/ <<BR>>
All latest version download: https://addons.mozilla.org/addon/mkiosk/versions/ <<BR>>
Firefox in full screen mode (Firefox Kiosk Mode), containing: <<BR>>
- To set the mKiosk F1, F2 to configure Firefox, F11 to Exit Full Screen, F12 to exit <<BR>>
- Optionally Displays Tabs / Guides <<BR>>
- Optionally displays the address bar <<BR>>
- Print button, optional leisure time to warm printers. View optional print. <<BR>>
- Reset button, time without use of terminal and internal protective screen <<BR>>
- Automatically retries in case of DNS failures <<BR>>
- Option Proxy differentiated to full screen (limited users) or common screen (Administrators), avoiding mistakes proxy <<BR>>
- Optionally blocks output by F1, F2, F11 or F12 keys. Returns only running Firefox in safe mode. <<BR>>
- Compatible with Touch Screen / Keyboard / Mouse <<BR>>
- Bookmarks shaped buttons <<BR>>
- Blocking downloads unknown files or installing plugins <<BR>>
- Displays PDF or Flash (if there are active plugins, install plugins before) <<BR>>
- Addon FxKeyboard compatible <<BR>>
- CAUTION: Deletes history, saved passwords, form data and all the cache maintaining user privacy kiosk. CAREFUL NOT TO INSTALLING THIS SUPPLEMENT BY MISTAKE WITHOUT KNOWING THIS INFORMATION. UP FOR SAFETY ISSUE, AS USUALLY THERE SEEKING SUCH DATA. <<BR>>
----
CategorySecurity
