{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

Setting up Kmail to use Groupware folders on a IMAP server. There are complications with different versions of Kmail reaching from 1.9.0 to 1.9.6. 

== Setup ==

According to the BUG <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdepim/+bug/139433]]</nowiki> the Groupware functionality with Imap accounts doesn't work out of the box. What you need to do is the following:

* "enable Groupware" in your Kmail Settings -> Misc -> Groupware 
* select the folder where the groupware folders are supposed to be. Please keep in mind, that it has to be on a cached Imap account. 
* close Kmail and open <code>~/.kde/share/config/kmailrc</code> with an editor
* search for the [Account X] section, that matches the cachedimap account and copy id in ID=id
* search for <code>TheIMAPResourceEnabled</code> and make sure it is true
* add in this section: <code>TheImapResourceAccount=id</code> where id is the ID of the account identified before
* start kmail again and enjoy

BEFORE you do that - please backup your kmailrc file !!!
Go to your all! accounts (via web panel) which are      
linked to Kmail and change options to "leave copy of    
messages on the server" In case that tutorial won't work
for you (like for me) reverse settings and follow:      
Settings: Turn off groupware from MISC, check accounts  
if they're back to old (working) settings). Delete all  
that has been received during different settings. Turn  
off Kmail. Back to Accounts via webpage. Untick leaving 
copy on server. Turn on Kmail. Shall be fine.           
(added by birkopf from kubuntuforums.net)                 

== Configuration example ==
Excerpt of <code>~/.kde/share/config/kmailrc</code>
<pre>
[Account 1]
0=""
Folder=380361337
Id=380361337 <--- You need this
Name=Contacts
Namespace:=.
Type=cachedimap  <--- type must be cached imap
auth=*
host=youhost
login=youlogin

...

[IMAP Resource]
HideGroupwareFolders=false
TheIMAPResourceEnabled=true           <-- make sure this is true
TheIMAPResourceFolderParent=380361337 <-- this must be an id of a folder on the cached imap server
TheIMAPResourceAccount=380361337      <-- insert here the number from above
</pre>
