{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Note:This How To is completely untested and may break your system'''
English will append later.

1. adsl connecting
<pre>
## sudo pppoeconf
</pre>
   (if you use hanaro for example, input username with userid@hanaro format and input passwd with any letter)

2. enable root su commmand
   In Menu, Applications -> System tools -> Root Terminal
<pre>
## passwd
   (enter and confirm your new password)
</pre>

3. Install Korean X input method 
   Append your source list
<pre>
   $ sudo vi /etc/apt/sources.list 
     deb http://ftp.kr.debian.org/debian/ unstable main
   $ sudo apt-get update
   $ sudo apt-get install nabi
</pre>   
   Then, remove deb http://ftp.kr.debian.org/debian/ unstable main in your source list
   and apt-get update again to refresh source list
<pre>
   $ cd
   $ vi .gnomerc
     export XMODIFIERS="@im=nabi"
     export GTK_IM_MODULE=xim
</pre>
   registering nabi with session
   In menu, Computer -> Desktop Preferences -> Sessions
   Select Startup Program Tab, press Add button and type /usr/bin/nabi
   Q: Is this effected to all of the users? - Hwasung
<pre>
   $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales 
</pre>
   To use English but enable Korean input, select en_US.UTF-8 UTF-8
   To get Korean menu, messages, etc., select ko_KR.EUC-KR EUC-KR or ko_KR.UTF-8 UTF-8 (UTF-8 means Unicode)
   
4. registering Korean font
   download hanyang fonts like MS Windows Gulim, Dotum and Batang fonts.
   (ttf-baekmuk is installed by default; is that not good enough? --ColinWatson)
<pre>
   $ cd
   $ wget -c ftp://ftp.haansoftlinux.com/pub/haansoftlinux/OS/2005/Workstation/RPMS/hanyang-ttf-2.0-2hs.noarch.rpm
</pre>   
   extract only *.ttf fonts.
   In menu, Computer -> Home -> double click hanyang-ttf-2.0-1hl.noarch.rpm with your mouse
   In File-roller Window, input Extract Group ->  Files *.ttf, uncheck Re-create folder in Action Group
** .ttf fonts will be extracted in your home directory.
<pre>
   $ cd /usr/share/fonts/truetype
   $ sudo mkdir hanyang
   $ cd hanyang
   $ sudo mv ~/*.ttf .
   $ sudo chown root.root *.ttf
   $ sudo mkfontdir
   $ cd ..
   $ pwd
   /usr/share/fonts/truetype
   $ sudo vi font.cache-1
     "hanyang" 0 ".dir"
   $ sudo fc-cache
</pre>   
   Now, Computer -> Desktop Preferences -> Font, You can see Gulim, Dotum, Batang Fonts.

------
Korean Language

1. adsl 연결하기
<pre>
   
### sudo pppoeconf 
   (하나로의 경우 userid@hanaro, 암호는 아무것이나 넣고 나머지 값을들 그냥 엔터키로 넘어가면 됩니다)
</pre>
2. root 비밀번호 설정으로 su 활성화하기
   메뉴에서 Applications -> System tools -> Root Terminal 을 선택합니다.
<pre>
## passwd 
   (등록할 암호를 만들때 두번의 확인을 거칩니다)
</pre>
3. 나비(XIM 한글 입력기) 설치
   소스리스트에 데비안 unstable 주소를 하나 넣습니다.
<pre>
   $ sudo vi /etc/apt/sources.list 
     deb http://ftp.kr.debian.org/debian/ unstable main
   
   $ sudo apt-get update
   $ sudo apt-get install nabi
</pre>   
   앞의 deb http://ftp.kr.debian.org/debian/ unstable main를 소스리스트에서 제거하고 
   갱신하기 위해서 apt-get update를 한번더 실행합니다.
<pre>
   $ cd
   $ vi .gnomerc
     export XMODIFIERS="@im=nabi"
     export GTK_IM_MODULE=xim
</pre>
   세션에서 나비가 자동실행되게 등록합니다.
   메뉴에서 Computer -> Desktop Preferences -> Sessions
   Startup Program 탭에서 Add 버튼을 누르고 /usr/bin/nabi 를 등록합니다.
<pre>
   $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales 
</pre>
   이곳에서 영문메뉴에서 입력만 한글로 사용할려면 en_US.UTF-8 UTF-8 를 선택하고,
   모든 메뉴를 한글로 할려면 ko_KR.EUC-KR EUC-KR, ko_KR.UTF-8 UTF-8 를 선택합니다.
   UTF-8은 유니코드이고 개인적으로 이것을 추천합니다.   
   
4. 한글폰트 등록
   먼저 윈도우에서 사용된 같은 폰트인 굴림,바탕,돋움 폰트를 다운받습니다.
<pre>
   $ cd
   $ wget -c ftp://ftp.haansoftlinux.com/pub/haansoftlinux/OS/2005/Workstation/RPMS/hanyang-ttf-2.0-2hs.noarch.rpm  
</pre>   
** .ttf 폰트만 압축을 풉니다.
   메뉴에서 Computer -> Home -> 마우스로 hanyang-ttf-2.0-1hl.noarch.rpm 더블클릭
   File-roller에서 Extract 선택 ->  Files 선택해서 *.ttf 입력하고, 오른쪽의 Actions 에서 Re-crate folder 선택해제하면
   홈디렉토리에 *.ttf만 풀립니다.
<pre>
   $ cd /usr/share/fonts/truetype
   $ sudo mkdir hanyang
   $ cd hanyang
   $ sudo mv ~/*.ttf .
   $ sudo chown root.root *.ttf
   $ sudo mkfontdir
   $ cd ..
   $ pwd
   /usr/share/fonts/truetype
   $ sudo vi font.cache-1
     "hanyang" 0 ".dir" 추가
   $ sudo fc-cache
</pre>   
   이제 메뉴에서 Computer -> Desktop Preferences -> Font 를 선택하면 Gulim, Dotum, Batang 폰트를 볼 수 있습니다.

   (나머진 나중에 입력하겠습니다. 양이 생각보다 많은 것 같습니다)
----

From JeckPixelbrei Wed Nov 17 14:51:48 +0000 2004
From: Jeck Pixelbrei
Date: Wed, 17 Nov 2004 14:51:48 +0000
Subject: $ sudo vi font.cache-1
Message-ID: <20041117145148+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

On my system this file is named fonts.cache-1

From Strongberry Sun Mar 6 04:11:07 +0000 2005
From: Strongberry
Date: Sun, 06 Mar 2005 04:11:07 +0000
Subject: 3. Install Korean X input method => problem :)
Message-ID: <20050306041107+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I've can't connect to http://ftp.kr.debian.org/debian/ on 6th Mar. 2005.
So I confused while I don'e know how to install nabi.
At last, I've found a way to install Nabi on official way.

just add below url to /etc/apt/sources.list

deb http://mirror.isp.net.au/ftp/pub/ubuntu warty universe

and then apt-get process can find nabi.

thanks to Jeck Pixelbrei for this manual, it give a good chance. :)
