{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This may occur to you that you return back to KDM just after entering your credentials (username and password).<<BR>>
Login loop may be caused due to:
* Full filesystem
* Broken graphics driver installation
* Root privileges assigned to files in /home directory

== Free disk space ==

You can free up disk space in order to resolve the Infinite Loop problem. There are a couple of tools that might come handy:

=== Command Line ===

==== df ====
<pre>
NAME
       df - report file system disk space usage

SYNOPSIS
       df [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  documents  the  GNU version of df.  df displays the
       amount of disk space available on the file system containing each  file
       name  argument.   If  no file name is given, the space available on all
       currently mounted file systems is shown.
</pre>

Examples:
<pre>
:~$ df
</pre>
or
<pre>
:~$ df -h -T
</pre>
<pre>
       -h, --human-readable
              print sizes in human readable format (e.g., 1K 234M 2G)

       -T, --print-type
              print file system type
</pre>

==== du ====
<pre>
NAME
       du - estimate file space usage

SYNOPSIS
       du [OPTION]... [FILE]...
       du [OPTION]... --files0-from=F

DESCRIPTION
       Summarize disk usage of each FILE, recursively for directories.
</pre>
Examples:
<pre>
:~$ du
</pre>
or
<pre>
:~$ du -h 
</pre>
<pre>
       -h, --human-readable
              print sizes in human readable format (e.g., 1K 234M 2G)
</pre>

=== GUI Tools ===

==== Filelight ====
It is like a pie-chart, but the segments nest, allowing you to see not only which directories take up all your space, but which directories and files inside those directories are the real culprits.

==== xdiskusage ====
xdiskusage is a user-friendly program to show you what is using up
all your disk space. It is based on the design of the "xdu" program
written by Phillip C. Dykstra. Changes have been made so it runs "du"
for you, and can display the free space left on the disk, and produce
a PostScript version of the display.

==== KDirStat ====
KDirStat (KDE Directory Statistics) is a small utility program that sums up
disk usage for direcory trees, very much like the Unix 'du' command. It
displays the disk space used up by a directory tree, both numerically and
graphically.

==== kdf ====
KDiskFree displays the available file devices (hard drive partitions, floppy and CD drives, etc.) along with information on their capacity, free space, type and mount point. It also allows you to mount and unmount drives and view them in a file manager.

== Start KDE from terminal ==
1. Go to a virtual terminal by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F1
2. Log in
3. Kill KDM 
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm stop
</pre>
4. Launch kde
<pre>
startkde
</pre>

== Reset config files ==
Launch the Kubuntu '''Recovery Mode''' from GRUB menu.
Once loaded, type in:
<pre>
cd /home/<your user name>
mv .kde .kde_old
reboot
</pre>

== External Links ==
You may want to take a look at these threads:<<BR>>
http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=9765 <<BR>>
http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3088389 <<BR>>
http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3096050 <<BR>>
http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3097104 <<BR>>
