{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Much of the documentation available at <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/]]</nowiki> will work just as well for Kubuntu as it does for Ubuntu. This is because Kubuntu is made up of Ubuntu's base plus KDE. Kubuntu users get a suite of free software from KDE. Since some of this software differs from that available by default in Ubuntu, Kubuntu-specific instructions will sometimes be needed. This page seeks to direct users to pages written specifically for Kubuntu.

== Appearance ==
You can <nowiki>[[CustomizeKubuntu|customize]]</nowiki> the appearance of your desktop by tweaking the KDE settings. Most these settings can be reached through Appearance options of Kubuntu's System Settings.

== Get Kubuntu ==
* <nowiki>[[https://kubuntu.org/getkubuntu|Get Kubuntu]]</nowiki>

== Installation Of Software ==
=== About Repositories ===
* <nowiki>[[Repositories-Kubuntu]]</nowiki>

=== Install Languages In Kubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[KubuntuLanguage]]</nowiki>

=== Install SKIM In Kubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[SCIM-Kubuntu]]</nowiki>

== Launch Applications On Startup ==
* <nowiki>[[KubuntuAutostart]]</nowiki>

== Network ==
=== Enable WPA In Kubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-WPAHowTo-Kubuntu]]</nowiki>

== Optimization ==
For users with older, slower computers, <nowiki>[[KubuntuOptimization|optimize]]</nowiki> Kubuntu to get the most performance out of your machine.

== Switch To Kubuntu ==
* <nowiki>[[FromUbuntuToKubuntu|From Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FromGentooToKubuntu|From Gentoo]]</nowiki>

== Upgrade ==
* <nowiki>[[MaverickUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 10.04 to 10.10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[NattyUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 10.10 to 11.04]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[OneiricUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 11.04 to 11.10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PreciseUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 11.10 to 12.04]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 12.04 to 12.10]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[RaringUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 12.10 to 13.04]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SaucyUpgrades-Kubuntu|Kubuntu 13.04 to 13.10]]</nowiki>

== Putting Kubuntu on a Flash Drive ==

* <nowiki>[[PuttingKubuntuOnAFlashDrive]]</nowiki>

== Help Write This Page ==
Help make this page better by adding to it, reorganizing the information in it, or correcting it. See the <nowiki>[[WikiGuide]]</nowiki> to get you started.

== See Also ==
* <nowiki>[[https://www.kubuntuforums.net/]]</nowiki> - Kubuntu forums.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org]]</nowiki> - Kubuntu home page.
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users]]</nowiki> - kubuntu-users mailing list.

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://kde.org/]]</nowiki> - KDE home page.

----
CategoryKubuntu
