{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
If you would like to add an application to the KDE startup executions, this is the guide! It's just like creating a link on the desktop, just in another folder. These instructions will work on Kubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) LTS.

== Launch Konqueror ==
1. Open the '''KDE''' menu.

2. Choose '''Run command...'''

3. Type '''konqueror''' into the box.

== Navigate To The Autostart Folder ==

1. Open the '''Home Folder'''.

2. Open the '''View''' menu.

3. Choose '''Show Hidden Files''' from the menu.

4. Open the '''.kde''' folder.

5. Open the '''Autostart''' folder.

== Create A Shortcut ==

1. Right-click on the white space in the folder.

2. Choose '''"Create New"'''

3. Choose '''"Link to Application..."'''
 
4. Replace the '''"Link to Application"''' text with an appropriate name for the shortcut.

5. Click on the '''Application''' tab.
 
6. Click the '''Browse...''' button.

7. Browse to the file you'd like to launch when Kubuntu starts.

8. Select the file.

9. Click the '''Open''' button.

10. Click the '''Advanced options''' button.

11. Unmark the '''Enable launch feedback''' check box.

12. Click the '''OK''' button.

13. Click the '''OK''' button.

If any questions, mail me on: danielklejnstrup@gmail.com
----
<nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page.]]</nowiki>
