{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

You can create, delete, run, stop, and manage your virtual machines from the command line, using a tool called ''virsh''.  ''Virsh'' is particularly useful for advanced Linux administrators, interested in script or automating some aspects of managing their virtual machines 

==== Installing ====
Install ''virsh'':
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libvirt-bin
</pre>

==== Connecting ====
Connect to your hypervisor.  This can be local, or even remote.  In most cases, if you want to manage VMs running on the local hypervisor:
<pre>
$ virsh connect qemu:///system
Connecting to uri: qemu:///system
</pre>

==== Listing VMs ====
<pre>
$ virsh list
 Id Name                 State
----------------------------------
  1 foo                  running
</pre>

==== Creating a Virtual Machine ====
Virtual Machines managed by ''virsh'' are created by describing the virtual machine in a ''libvirt'' XML file, and importing that XML file into ''virsh''.

You can export the XML of an existing virtual machine:
<pre>
$ virsh dumpxml foo > /tmp/foo.xml
Connecting to uri: qemu:///system
</pre>

And then edit <code>/tmp/foo.xml</code>, which should be rather straightforward.  For more information about ''libvirt'' XML format, see:
* http://libvirt.org/format.html

Once you have an XML file describing the new virtual machine you want to create, import it into virsh, and run it immediately:
<pre>
$ virsh create /tmp/foo_new.xml 
Connecting to uri: qemu:///system
Domain foo_new created from /tmp/foo_new.xml
$ virsh list
Connecting to uri: qemu:///system
 Id Name                 State
----------------------------------
  3 foo_new              running
</pre>

Alternatively, if you want to define it, but not run it, you could have used:
<pre>
$ virsh define /tmp/foo_new.xml
</pre>

==== Working with a Running Virtual Machine ====

Once a virtual machine is running, you can manage it in many different ways, such as:
<pre>
$ virsh start foo
</pre>
<pre>
$ virsh reboot foo
</pre>
<pre>
$ virsh shutdown foo
</pre>
<pre>
$ virsh suspend foo
</pre>
<pre>
$ virsh resume foo
</pre>

You can also affect the memory, dynamically attach devices, interfaces, modify the networking configuration, etc.  This guide in this wiki page is clearly not comprehensive.  For a complete description of ''virsh'' commands, see:
<pre>
$ man virsh
</pre>

===== Console =====
Sometimes, it's useful to attach to the console of a running VM, to obtain debugging information, etc.
<pre>
$ virsh console foo
Connected to domain foo
Escape character is ^]
</pre>

===== Details =====
To view the details about a particular virtual machine:
<pre>
$ virsh dumpxml foo
</pre>

These can be saved to a file, modified, and imported again using:
<pre>
$ virsh define foo
</pre>

==== Deleting a Virtual Machine ====
To delete a virtual machine, first terminate it (if running), and then undefine it:
<pre>
$ virsh destroy foo_new
$ virsh undefine foo_new
</pre>

==== More Information ====
For more complete documentation on ''virsh'', see:
* http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/karmic/en/man1/virsh.1.html
