{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

List of uploads which should (and should not) happen at the start of the P-Series release cycle. This is in addition to the opening process for a new release as described in NewReleaseCycleProcess.

=== Packages to upload ===

1. Toolchain updates (minor, update to the binutils 2.22 branch and the GCC 4.6 branch, Linaro update). (set, doko, ubuntu-toolchain-r PPA)

1. autotools updates (set, just libtool, Matthias Klose).

1. Update linux-libc-dev (set, kernel team)

1. Merge dpkg, keep the compiler flags in the environment for the P-series. (set, Colin Watson)

1. Drop python2.6 as a supported python version (set, Matthias Klose).

1. Bump swig from version 1.3 to version 2.0 (available in Debian unstable). (set, Matthias Klose)

# Merge cdbs (set, Martin Pitt; in precise)
# Merge debhelper (set, Martin Pitt; in precise)
# jpeg8/jpeg62. Start with libjpeg-dev provided by jpeg8 (set, Matthias Klose).

=== Library packages to upload ===

=== Things to avoid ===

1. perl-5.14 (not yet in Debian). (proposed).

=== Library updates to avoid ===

1. Don't sync libraries from unstable which are just converted to multiarch; these conversions may cause build breakage, which is not yet fixed in unstable.

1. don't bump boost beyond 1.46.x
