{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Following WhatWindowsUsersWant, this document attempts to look at the options for P2P file sharing on Ubuntu. With over 377 million downloads on downloads.com, this is a key reason for many people to use the internet and choose an operating system. Good P2P support should be a cornerstone of Ubuntu. Also see <nowiki>[[P2PHowTo]]</nowiki> for installation instructions.

=== Key Protocols and Clients (Windows and Linux) ===

==== BitTorrent ====
BitTorrent is one of the most popular and well-known protocols at the moment: 
* Decentralized network - instead of having one single person uploading to another person, all involved computers share with each other - even if they haven't fully completed the download yet.
* Generally very fast transfer rates (but it still depends on the number of people downloading/uploading as well as their connection speed)
* No integrated search function. In order to download, users must first download a "torrent"  (file ending in .torrent) from the Internet, and then open it with a BitTorrent Client. E.g. Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04/|can be downloaded]]</nowiki> using BitTorrent (by downloading the corresponding .torrent-file and then opening it with a BitTorrent Client.
* Already implemented in Ubuntu - Ubuntu is shipped with the GNOME BitTorrent, and has several other clients in the official repositories.

===== Clients =====
Among the most used BitTorrent clients are Azureus, KTorrent (the KDE equivalent of GNOME BitTorrent), MLDonkey and BitTornado. Of these, '''Azureus''' is often considered the most beginner-friendly and flexible client. For more info about how to install and configure Azureus, see AzureusHowTo.

==== DirectConnect ====
Direct``Connect is another example of a well-known file-sharing protocol. Among the supported clients are:
* valknut (KDE-native client)
* dc_gui2 (available from universe)
* MLDonkey (not fully supported - available from universe)

==== EDonkey 2000 ====

The E``Donkey network (abbr. ed2k) is a decentralized, server-based network mainly used to share audio, video and software.
Ubuntu supports several ed2k clients, among them MLDonkey, aMule and xMule. 
* Both aMule and MLDonkey can be found in the Universe repository.

==== FastTrack ====
Fast``Track was perhaps one of the first networks to become 'famous' because of the success of one it its clients: Kazaa. While Fast``Track was one of the first large networks, today it consists mostly of corrupted files, virii and malware, and therefor it is not recommended to use it for anything - unless you want to test the security of Ubuntu :)
Still, should anyone consider using Fast``Track, Ubuntu supports a couple of clients:
* <nowiki>[[http://apollon.sourceforge.net/index.html|apollon]]</nowiki> (multi-protocol client)
* MLDonkey
* giFT also has <nowiki>[[http://gift-fasttrack.berlios.de|a FastTrack plugin]]</nowiki> available

==== OpenFT ====
Open``FT is a file-sharing protocol developed by the guys over at the giFT project. giFT is the major client on this network.

==== Freenet ====
<nowiki>[[http://freenetproject.org/|Freenet]]</nowiki> is a protocol which differs from most other protocols in the sense that it has focus on anonymity rather than efficiency.
* Absolute anonymity ensuring that nobody is able to track what a given user is sharing or downloading
* VERY slow connections because data is routed back and forth between several computers to ensure anonymity
* Not very many users (est. ~5000)
* Still in early stages of development (0.7)

==== Gnutella ====

{i} gtk-gnutella in the repositories is very old, requires updating and may not work. PhilWyett (2008-07-08).

Gnutella is seen by many as the successor to Fast``Track. Its userbase is larger than 1.2 million users.
* Easy to use
* Mostly used to download audio, video, small software and other small (< 1 GB) files
* Supported clients include gtk-gnutella (included in universe), <nowiki>[[http://www.limewire.com|LimeWire]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.frostwire.com/|FrostWire]]</nowiki>, MLDonkey, apollon and gnewtellium.

==== Gnutella2 ====
Gnutella2 is a protocol developed by the Shareaza Project - the only Linux client known to support it is MLDonkey (included in universe).

=== Table of comparison ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Network Protocol'''
| '''Average # of Online Users'''
| '''Windows Clients'''
| '''Ubuntu Universe Clients'''
| '''Other Linux Clients'''
| '''Comments'''
|-
| BitTorrent
| 30% of internet traffic
| Bit``Torrent, Bit``Tornado, Azureus, Bit``Comet, Shareaza, MLDonkey, Morpheus, others
| Bit``Torrent, Gnome BitTorrent, MLDonkey, BitTornado
| <nowiki>[[AzureusHowTo|Azureus]]</nowiki>, BT++, Flash! Torrent, Yet ABC
| Downloading from several users gives fast transfer rates, already integrated (Gnome Bit``Torrent is included in Ubuntu from <nowiki>[[Hoary]]</nowiki> and onwards), no integrated search-function - relies on external websites. <nowiki>[[AzureusHowTo|Azureus]]</nowiki> is a good complement to Gnome Bit``Torrent.
|-
| ed2k
| 3 million +
| eDonkey2000, eDonkey, eMule, Shareaza, lphant, Morpheus, Xolox
| MLDonkey, aMule, xMule
| eDonkey
| 
|-
| FastTrack
| 2.4m+
| Kazaa, Kazaa Lite K++, iMesh, Grokster, Xolox
| apollon, MLDonkey
| There is a fastTrack plugin for gift : /
| p2p pioneer, carries many fakes
|-
| OpenFT (FastTrack)
| ?
| KCeasy, giFT
| giFT
| 
| 
|-
| Freenet
| 5000
| Freenet
| 
| http://freenet.sourceforge.net/
| anonymous, secure, slow
|-
| Gnutella
| 1.2m+
| LimeWire, BearShare, Shareaza, XoloX, Morpheus
| MLDonkey, apollon, gtk-gnutella
| LimeWire, FrostWire, gnewtellium
| gtk-gnutella works great for rare songs. FrostWire is an open source alternative of LimeWire
|-
| Gnutella2
| ?
| Shareaza, Nucleus, Morpheus
| MLDonkey
| 
| 
|-
| DirectConnect
| 0.7m+
| DirectConnect, DC++
| dcgui-qt, MLDonkey (alpha), valknut,
| Linux DC++
| Linux DC++ can be installed from the <nowiki>[[P2PHowTo]]</nowiki> page
|-
| OpenNap
| ?
| WinMX, XNap, Lopster, SlavaNap
| kNapster2, OpenNap, MLDonkey (alpha)
| GnomeNapster, XNap, Lopster, SlavaNap
| 
|-
| Ares
| ?
| Ares Galaxy, Warex P2P, FileCroc
| 
| 
| 
|-
| MP2P/Manolito
| 0.2m+
| Piolet, Blubster
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Soulseek
| ?
| Soulseek
| Nicotine, MLDonkey (alpha)
| 
| great for special music files.
|-
| Overnet
| ?ed2k
| eDonkey,  eDonkeyHybrid, MLDonkey, Morpheus
| MLDonkey
| eDonkey
| no servers, direct p2p, closed protocol kademlia implementation
|-
| MP2P/Manolito
| 0.2m+
| Piolet, Blubster
| 
| 
| 
|-
| eXeem
| ?
| eXeem, eXeem Lite
| 
| 
| 
|-
| WPNP
| ?
| WinMX
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Hotline
| ?
| Hotline
| fidelio
| 
| 
|}
