{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 <<BR>>

This page describes how the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~packaging-training-coordinators|Packaging Training Coordinators]]</nowiki> coordinate the planning of the next sessions.

== General ==
Tips for planning new sessions

* Encourage developers to just prepare 15-20 minutes of content. It's not too much, especially with lots of questions that get asked.
* If somebody explained in a normal conversation something really well, ask them to give a session about it.

== Session Ideas ==
* <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training-Suggestions]]</nowiki>
* Development Q&A sessions (easy to do, make sure you invite folks from IRC to help out.)
* Code Review session.
* Adhoc Sessions (come with your problem and a developer will help you sort it out)
* Get questions from the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=44|Packaging forums]]</nowiki>
* Investigate "Beginner's Programming Challenge" ##These have primarily been focused on actual programming, not packaging (as creativity and trying out new languages is a big part of it. I'm not sure how much we could do with this.

== Additional ideas ==
* Should presenters give "homework"?
* Ask presenters to let you know if their session needs some kind of preparation.

== Announce ==
* Update <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training]]</nowiki>
* Update <nowiki>[[MOTU-Headers-NextPackagingTraining]]</nowiki>
* Ensure session is on the <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html|calendar]]</nowiki> (contact nhandler or someone in #ubuntu-classroom-backstage if you don't have access)
* Send mail to `ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com`
* Blog at http://ubuntuclassroom.wordpress.com/ (contact nhandler or someone in #ubuntu-classroom-backstage if you don't have access)
* Post at http://www.facebook.com/pages/Ubuntu-Development/141173545934275
* Announce on #ubuntu, #ubuntu-bugs, #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-motu (and elsewhere) a few minutes before we start.
* Get on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=44|Packaging forums]]</nowiki>.
* Get on development testing forum (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394|current]]</nowiki>).

=== Afterwards ===
* Add log to <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training-Logs]]</nowiki>.
* Update <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training]]</nowiki>
* Update <nowiki>[[MOTU-Headers-NextPackagingTraining]]</nowiki>

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[Packaging]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
CategoryPackaging
