{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Suggestions ==
'''Are there any topics that you'd like to see covered in future sessions?'''
'''A list of <nowiki>[[MOTU-School|MOTU School]]</nowiki> session requests can be found <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-Requests|here]]</nowiki>.'''

* Two things I'd like to be taught is bash-scripting and how to be a productive memeber of bugsquad, that is triaging, bugreporting and so on, along with some examples and excersises. even though the wiki pages are good in showing this, documentation isnt always a sufficient method of teaching. <nowiki>[[KhaaL]]</nowiki>
* Getting new software packaged and into Ubuntu and/or Debian.  
* Getting new software into Ubuntu and/or Debian doesn't just involve packaging and uploading the software, but it also involves a certain degree of responsibility for maintaining the software and responding to bug reports once the software is in the repos. I would like someone to give a talk on the processes involved in getting new software into repositories, as well as discuss the responsibilities that come along with getting new software into the repos. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:j1mc]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
* From http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=427
** Getting Started.
** Finding things that need to get done.
** The path from hello.py to hello.deb
** How to distribute my brand-new little app to lots of Ubuntu users, targeting Hardy, Intrepid, and Jaunty
** Packaging DocBook help for use with PyGTK Gnome apps
* From http://daniel.holba.ch/blog/?p=818
** building multiple-binaries packages
** contributing upstream
** Packaging for Debian, then sync/merge into Ubuntu
** when to split out library files
** (A system of online workshops you could follow in your own time)
** A guide for someone switching from Windows development
* From <nowiki>[[MOTU-Videos]]</nowiki>
** Life Cycle of a Bug
* From <nowiki>[[MOTU-School-Requests]]</nowiki>
** What do I have to do, if I maintain a package?
** Cool things to do with python-apt.
** Uploading a clean source package on REVU
** Dealing with hideously packaged packages
** Integrating packages with Gnome
** read MoM outputs
** How to package a php web app 
** How are 'Mobile' Apps special?
** How do Debian Packaging Teams work?
** How do I make good use of Upstream Version Control Systems?
** Managing packages and patches with git-buildpackage?
** The misteries of gcc, ld, make and autotools 
** Ways to contribute back to Debian 
** How to be a patch pilot
* ''<your idea> (please sign your idea with `@``SIG``@`)''

== Comments ==
* ''<your comment> (please sign your idea with `@``SIG``@`)'' 

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[Packaging]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
CategoryPackaging
