{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
[13:01] <geser> Hello
[13:01] <geser> Welcome to the "Q&A session about the DMB work"
[13:02] <geser> My name is Michael Bienia and I'm one of the seven DMB members and leading you now through this session
[13:05] <geser> Before I start a small disclaimer: although the DMB has ca common understanding we are all still human and each DMB member has his own opionon and interpretation of some parts. So this session might get biased by my own opinion.
[13:05] <geser> Let's us come to the first topic: What tasks does the DMB have?
[13:06] <geser> Mostly we have to deal with applications for ubuntu-contributors, Per-package upload access (PPU), MOTU, core-devs and upload permissions for non-delegated package sets
[13:07] <geser> The differences between those is as follows:
[13:09] <geser> - ubuntu-contributors: This just gives Ubuntu membership but though development contributions (the other kind of contributions are still handled by the other boards)
[13:09] <geser> It gives no upload rights of any kind or any special status, just Ubuntu membership
[13:10] <geser> and can be understood as a reward for those on their road to upload permissions
[13:11] <geser> the requirements for ubuntu-contributors are the same as for ubuntu-members: "sustained and significant contributions"
[13:11] <geser> The first upload rights come through PPU
[13:12] <geser> This gives someone upload rights to one package (or a small set of packages).
[13:13] <geser> It is expected that the applicant knows the packaging of those package (easily shown with sponsored uploads of those)
[13:13] <geser> and it is good to know some basic Ubuntu policies (as far as they are related to that package)
[13:14] <geser> PPU is for person who care about one or two (or some more) packages
[13:16] <geser> It shouldn't be understood as a general path for broader upload permissions (but as the interests might broaden over time one can apply for more upload right later)
[13:18] <geser> For the most was the next step in the past after ubuntu-contributors to apply for MOTU. With the still ongoing archive reorganisation this has lead to some more options: MOTU and upload rights for a package sets.
[13:19] <geser> Some package sets (like ubuntu-desktop, kubuntu, edubuntu) have a delegated body processing the applications for those and are not handled by the DMB
[13:21] <geser> Upload rights for MOTU and a package sets don't differ much. The biggest difference is the focus of contributions.
[13:22] <geser> While for a package set the focus is on the packages in this set, MOTU has a more general focus set on the unseeded packages.
[13:23] <geser> For both a broad set of package skills and knowledge of the Ubuntu policies is expected.
[13:24] <geser> A guideline is to contribute for around one release cycle to have participated once in each phase of development.
[13:25] <geser> And the last team for which DMB handles the application is "core-dev".
[13:26] <geser> core-devs are like MOTUs generalists but they can upload nearly everything
[13:27] <geser> They take of those packages which are currently in the "main" component
[13:28] <geser> Therefore they are expected to have good packaging skills, knowlegde of the Ubuntu policies and a good judgement on the changes they apply as they might affect a good basis of the Ubuntu users.
[13:29] <geser> So the next questions is: How do I apply?
[13:31] <geser> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperMembershipBoard/ApplicationProcess describes the process of how to apply and links to a template (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopment/DeveloperApplicationTemplate)
[13:32] <geser> This template is a guide for how an application should look like
[13:33] <geser> A good application should have around 3-5 endorsements. But his depends on the team one applies to.
[13:34] <geser> The more endorsements one gets the better as they show a good integration into the current team
[13:34] <geser> So what does the DMB look at when processing an application?
[13:35] <geser> First we look at the application page, so it should contain all relevant links which might benefit your application
[13:37] <geser> We also look at your contributions as linked in your application or LP page (if sponsored uploads don't linked to you on LP because your sponsor added his own changes to this upload, please link those uploads in your application page)
[13:39] <geser> We also check the quality of your contributions. The amount of contributions doesn't really matter but a certain amount is excepted to be able to judge your packaging skills.
[13:40] <geser> And of course the more complicated ones are of more interest than the easy one, so list them in your application page.
[13:41] <geser> We also look at how you handled bug reports.
[13:41] <geser> And as we can't monitor everything an applicant did (or not did), we rely on the endorsements from others.
[13:42] <geser> The last step is to appear on a DMB meeting where we ask you some questions.
[13:43] <geser> Those questions are mostly related to parts of your application page or packages you worked on (nothing to worry about).
[13:44] <geser> When we are done, the DMB votes on your application and you see the result (assuming the vote reached quorum).
[13:44] <geser> Quesions? Comments?
[13:49] <geser> Doesn't look like there are any questions left.
[13:50] <ClassBot> There are are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[13:50] <geser> Thanks to everybody who attended (or not attended).
</pre>

----
CategoryPackaging
