{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
[00:59] <jawnsy> Hi everyone
[00:59] <jawnsy> It looks like it's about time for the Packaging Perl Modules session
[01:00] <jawnsy> Hopefully some of you are here for the talk, or gwolf and I will be talking to ourselves :-)
[01:00] <gwolf> Yup - 2:00AM according to me, so we are ready to start!
[01:00] <jawnsy> If you've got a question, feel free to ask whenever. I only ask that you try to keep questions relevant to the thing currently being discussed, just so the logs don't get too confusing
[01:00] <gwolf> nhandler: So, you are the guy who invited us. Should we expect anything from you?
[01:00] <gwolf> or should we just address The Audience?
[01:00] <maddeth> 1am by me :p but dont know how long I will be here
[01:01] <nhandler> gwolf: You guys are in charge now ;) I'm just here for the show now
[01:01] <gwolf> good :)
[01:01] <jawnsy> Okay, so a quick introduction
[01:01] <gwolf> ok, so lets al just welcome and listen to jawnsy
[01:01] <ajmitch> most people will probably remain quiet :)
[01:01] <gwolf> I have this (annoying?) tendency of having a hard time to sit and listen at an audience, I always end up interrupting
[01:01] <jawnsy> gwolf and myself are members of the Debian pkg-perl team, gwolf is a Debian Developer, and I am not
[01:01] <gwolf> so I'd rather interrupt jawnsy rather than myself ;-)
[01:02] <jawnsy> We're going to do this talk under the assumption of no previous knowledge making any packages, either for Ubuntu or for Debian
[01:02] <jawnsy> Luckily, packaging Perl modules is pretty gentle. A few tools you will need frequently are: dh-make-perl, lintian
[01:03] <gwolf> That's basically thanks to that the Perl modules all share a basic infrastructure
[01:03] <jawnsy> I'm going to go through packaging a small module from CPAN, we'll discuss what commands you can use to do it
[01:03] <jawnsy> first of all, in order to follow along you'll need to apt-get install the aforementioned tools
[01:03] <gwolf> ...And that's also the main reason we (a group of ~15 people at most) can keep up with ~1300 packages in a reliable way!
[01:04] <maddeth> aptitude installing now :)
[01:04] <jawnsy> Another useful package is devscripts, which contains "debuild" -- a command we'll be looking at later
[01:05] <jawnsy> While everyone's installing that stuff, is there a particular module anyone would be interested in using as an example?
[01:05] <gwolf> jawnsy: oh, catalyst could be a good example
[01:05] <jawnsy> Otherwise I'll just pick one at random
[01:05] <gwolf> (of something you want to avoid ;-) )
[01:06] <gwolf> lets start simple, with something not dependency-rich
[01:06] <Ryan52> Locale-Msgfmt
[01:06] <Ryan52> no dependencies other than Perl core, and it should "just work".
[01:07] <jawnsy> okay
[01:07] <jawnsy> So, make a directory and change into it (the build process might clutter your directory with some files, so it's best to put it somewhere). I usually make a bunch of directories like 'tmp'
[01:08] <jawnsy> the first command you want to run is: dh-make-perl --cpan Locale::Msgfmt
[01:08] <gwolf> jawnsy: Let me fill in a minute please :)
[01:08] <jawnsy> Hopefully you have CPAN configured, otherwise it might ask you to configure it. Usually just hitting enter all the way down will be OK
[01:09] <gwolf> I think we have a bit different approaches - I think it's a bit better to first introduce what is _about to_ happen ;-)
[01:09] <gwolf> But anyway - Yes, dh-make-perl is a magic script
[01:09] <gwolf> ... In preparing Debian packages, you will see lots and lots of dh_* calls - To the debhelper scripts
[01:10] <gwolf> dh-make-perl is _NOT_ part of debhelper, but extensively uses i
[01:10] <gwolf> it
[01:10] <gwolf> ...Anyway... Ok, I agree with jawnsy's reasoning (which was sent to me out of band)...
[01:10] <gwolf> ...so I'll let him continue with the demonstration
[01:10] <gwolf> we can later talk about pedagogy ;-)
[01:11] <jawnsy> debhelper, as you may or may not know, is a collection of scripts that Debian uses to build and install packages
[01:11] <jawnsy> prior to debhelper, we were using huge makefiles.. which, as you can imagine, gets pretty hard to maintain and debug
[01:12] <jawnsy> Once you do dh-make-perl --cpan Locale::Msgfmt, you should see a bunch of text scroll by your screen, how it's unpacking a tarball
[01:12] <jawnsy> Most importantly, at the end, you should get a line that says "--- Done" which meant everything went OK
[01:12] <jawnsy> For those following along with this, please confirm that you can build using dh-make-perl. If not, mention any problems you are having in #ubuntu-classroom-chat
[01:13] <jawnsy> Okay. So, it did a bunch of magic. Let's look at what it created.
[01:14] <jawnsy> cd into Locale-Msgfmt-0.14, and list the directory's contents
[01:14] <jawnsy> Everything in that directory is from the tarball we just downloaded from CPAN
[01:15] <jawnsy> what is important to note for us is the files in debian/, which basically tell our installer (debhelper) how to do its magic. It also contains metadata files that tell Aptitude how to resolve dependencies, for example
[01:15] <jawnsy> I'll go through these files (in debian/) file-by-file so we can look at what they are for.
[01:16] <jawnsy> While dh-make-perl is great at its magic, it's also not perfect. So we have to manually check that everything is OK and makes sense.
[01:16] <gwolf> Just as a sidemark - often, dh-make-perl's generated files are good enough for straight _local_ use
[01:17] <gwolf> that means, if you just install them, you can basically trust they will not eat your hard disk, and will even behave
[01:17] <jawnsy> Oh, yes. If you are building Perl modules for your own consumption, they are often good enough to install right away. You can use: dh-make-perl --install --cpan Locale::Msgfmt for that purpose
[01:17] <gwolf> of course, if you are interested in contributing Debian or Ubuntu, a human should check it!
=== they is now known as vorian
[01:18] <jawnsy> Often doing this is better than using the CPAN shell to do installs, because this way you can remove packages easily
[01:18] <jawnsy> the debian/compat file just contains the version of debhelper that the module is built for, in this case it should just contain "7" on its own line, which means it's designed for the debhelper 7 series
[01:19] <gwolf> And IIRC, dh-make-perl will not by default work on modules that are marked as unstable by their authors, just on the highest official release (which can be otherwise using the CPAN shell)
[01:19] <maddeth> cat compat
[01:19] <maddeth> lol
[01:19] <jawnsy> yep, it's small :-)
[01:19] <maddeth> oops ;)
[01:19] <gwolf> maddeth: Yup - debhelper uses lots of small files. You will find several such files with minor indications
[01:19] <jawnsy> Now, look inside the 'control' file
[01:20] <jawnsy> I'll briefly discuss some important points, but to get the full idea of what's going on, reading the Debian Policy Manual is the best way
[01:21] <gwolf> right - we got reminded that you might be looking at some possibly different things
[01:21] <gwolf> i.e. if you are running the latest stable versions, or even more if you are using the LTS releases, you will -of course- face older results. Specially LTS will generate a _very_ different set of results (although should be equally usable)
[01:22] <gwolf> but anyway, please ignore such small inconsistencies
[01:23] <jawnsy> Mhm. Basically, this d/control file is what tells aptitude/synaptic various things which you might see as familiar. This is where a package description is defined, among other things
[01:24] <gwolf> debian/control basically lays out all the metainformation - What packages does this one depend on? What is it about? Who created it? ± when? (while it does not contain the dates, as we will go over that soon, it has a rough indication on when it was last updated: its standards-version)
[01:24] <gwolf> ..and several other, less interesting details
[01:25] <gwolf> Note that even if you are working with Ubuntu... at the package source level, keep in mind it will always be debian/*
[01:25] <jawnsy> oh, when I say d/control, I should note that it's a short form (in discussion) for saying debian/control
[01:26] <jawnsy> we get used to that slang a lot in pkg-perl
[01:26] <gwolf> For this module (or package, depending on which side of reality you are standing), the information in debian/control is quite minimal - but were you to build a more involved package, it can... grow quite a bit
=== Pici` is now known as Pici
[01:26] <gwolf> heh, in Debian in general, and I guess it also happens in Ubuntu :)
[01:26] <jawnsy> Yes, right now, it only contains two sections (things separated by a newline)
[01:27] <jawnsy> the top part refers to the "source package", the second part refers to binaries generated from the source package. None of that matters right now, so don't worry about it
[01:27] <jawnsy> Okay, onto the next file. You should see a file called: liblocale-msgfmt-perl.docs
[01:27] <jawnsy> and a similar one with the extension .examples
[01:27] <jawnsy> cat these and take a look at them. You'll notice it's just a line-separated list of filenames and paths
[01:28] <gwolf> some of this files might not exist under some circumstances - they depend on what is included on each of the modules you work on
[01:28] <jawnsy> These are magical files, and they trigger debuild to "install" them. Note that anything listed in these files will be installed on Ubuntu and Debian systems which install your package.
[01:28] <jawnsy> Basically, .docs is a way of listing some files which are useful for users to read, so they'll be installed on your system.
[01:29] <gwolf> And, of course, they are autogenerated - so it is possible you will find some examples or files missing. Feel free to just create them with the filenames (relative to the source package's root) for whatever files you want treated as such.
[01:29] <jawnsy> It should list a single file, README, for this package
[01:29] <jawnsy> take a look at the contents of README. you'll notice that it doesn't really say anything interesting.
[01:30] <jawnsy> just the usual stuff like how to install the package manually. this sort of thing isn't tremendously useful to our users, so you can remove the README entry from the .docs file
[01:30] <jawnsy> now, it's no use keeping an empty .docs file around, so since there's nothing we need to install, you may simply rm the .docs file
[01:30] <gwolf> In fact, it could be (and was, several releases ago) simpler: debhelper is quite flexible. here, the filenames are prepended by the package name (liblocale-msgfmt-perl.docs i.e.) - If you were to add other binary packages generated by the same source, they would not be included. you could just name them "docs" and "examples", and the results would end up in all generated files.
[01:30] <gwolf> sorry, all generated binary packages
[01:31] <jawnsy> Is everyone following with us here?
[01:31] <maddeth> could you just remove the *.docs file altogether? or is it a requirment?
[01:31] <jawnsy> You can remove the .docs file if it's empty
[01:31] <gwolf> You can of course remove it if there are no docs to install
[01:31] <jawnsy> And you should.
[01:32] <jawnsy> Okay, the next file to look at is 'rules'
[01:32] <jawnsy> Some of you in the audience might notice that it looks an awful lot like a makefile.
[01:32] <jawnsy> Well, it is :-)
[01:32] <jawnsy> (and is in fact processed by GNU make)
[01:32] <gwolf> Documentation is usually installed to /usr/share/doc/<pkgname>, and examples /usr/share/doc/<pkgname>/examples.
[01:33] <gwolf> jawnsy: In fact, there was a discussion some months (years?) ago in Debian, as to whether debian/rules needed to be a Makefile or could be something else
[01:33] <gwolf> in theory it would work just if it had the proper shebang to anything other than make
[01:33] <gwolf> in the end it was left as a GNU make file fo... consistency
[01:34] <jawnsy> syntactically, makefiles are pretty easy to work with. there's not too much you need to know to work with a makefile.
[01:34] <gwolf> heh, at first sight don't try to make _much_ sense out of debian/rules
[01:34] <jawnsy> depending on the version of dh-make-perl you have installed, you might get files of various length.
[01:34] <gwolf> It basically means: "For every target, call the suitable dh helpers"
[01:34] <gwolf> oh, right!
[01:34] <gwolf> Well, for the latest versions, using the short DH7 variant, it basically says:
[01:34] <jawnsy> Just remember that the rules file you have is what tells debhelper how to build and install your package, and how to clean up after itself
[01:34] <gwolf> #!/usr/bin/make -f
[01:34] <gwolf> %:
[01:34] <gwolf> 	dh $@
[01:35] <gwolf> But we used to generate a ~50 line debian/rules until recently.
[01:35] <jawnsy> that's a new shorthand debhelper has, which makes working with and maintaining packages that much easier, especially Perl ones
[01:35] <jawnsy> the last file we haven't looked at yet is watch
[01:36] <jawnsy> you don't need to care that much about that one. It's just a way for Ubuntu and Debian to automatically look for new upstream versions
[01:36] <jawnsy> because everything is on the CPAN, dh-make-perl sets that up for us :-)
[01:36] <gwolf> it basically consists of an URL and a pattern to look for in its webpage
[01:36] <jawnsy> this way, some commands that use it, such as uscan (in package devscripts, which you should've installed by now)
[01:37] <jawnsy> can make use of the information therein. It doesn't really matter for now :-)
[01:37] <jawnsy> okay, so, now that we know what all these control files are doing, change back to Locale-Msgfmt-0.14 (the root of your package)
[01:37] <gwolf> but you can try, just for the sake of it: Run "uscan --verbose"
[01:38] <jawnsy> ah, good point gwolf :-)
[01:38] <gwolf> :)
[01:38] <jawnsy> okay, now, to actually build this package into the binary .deb files we are used to seeing
[01:38] <gwolf> anyway, jawnsy... you were picking up your magic wand
[01:38] <gwolf> please perform the trick
[01:38] <gwolf> note that I have my hands firmly tied behind my back and cannot move.
[01:39] <jawnsy> Make sure you have the 'dpkg-dev' package installed
[01:40] <jawnsy> this is a collection of programs you'll need to build .deb binaries
[01:40] <jawnsy> there are two commands we can use to start the build, either debuild or dpkg-buildpackage
[01:41] <jawnsy> it will display a lot of output. if you've ever installed a CPAN module in the past, you'll note that the output looks mostly the same
[01:41] <jawnsy> this is because the debhelper process is actually running the Perl build system -- that is, running Makefile.PL or Build.PL
[01:42] <jawnsy> Is anyone having problems with the build?
[01:42] <jawnsy> if you do a ls of your current working directory, you'll note that there are some intermediate build files. this is because debhelper built the module and hasn't cleaned up after itself
[01:43] <jawnsy> in order to restore everything back to the "clean" state, run the command: debian/rules clean
[01:43] <jawnsy> or 'debclean'
[01:43] <maddeth> sorry jawnsy where do we run dpkj-buildpackage? the debian directory?
[01:43] <gwolf> you can run it from the base package directory
[01:43] <jawnsy> you want to run it in the root directory of the module, so in this case, Locale-Msgfmt-0.14
[01:43] <maddeth> thankyou
[01:44] <gwolf> (you will notice my hands have been untied and you have some shiny new packages ready!)
[01:44] <jawnsy> the reason for that is that dpkg-buildpackage looks for files in debian/* under the base directory
[01:44] <jawnsy> once you have done the build, change to the directory *above* the base directory (this is why I told you to make a temporary directory at the beginning)
[01:45] <jawnsy> you should notice a bunch of files there. Most importantly to this process is the .deb file, which was magically built for you by dpkg-buildpackage
[01:45] <gwolf> In fact, we could have got to this precise place even in a more automated way to begin with :-) If we had specified the command «dh-make-perl --build --cpan Locale-Msgfmt», the package would have been built and left in our currently working directory. Many times I have done that.
[01:45] <jawnsy> if you so desire, you can install it on your system using: sudo dpkg --install liblocale-msgfmt-perl_0.14-1_all.deb
[01:46] <jawnsy> but, how do we know what it's going to install? how can I be sure it won't overwrite some really important files?
[01:46] <gwolf> Well, to begin with... The dpkg package management system would refuse!
[01:46] <dam> gwolf: but you would miss the cleanup of .docs
[01:46] <jawnsy> quite conveniently, dpkg provides a "--contents" command
[01:46] <gwolf> dam: Of course. But for local builds, that's often enough :)
[01:46] <jawnsy> so that we can basically list the files inside our binary, and more importantly see *where* files will be installed
[01:47] <gwolf> (you'd even miss the warm feeling from having a human look at it)
[01:47] <jawnsy> ok, so now, please find the .deb file which was built
[01:47] <jawnsy> and execute the command: dpkg --contents *deb
[01:47] <jawnsy> you should get a listing of files which looks a lot like some 'ls' output
[01:48] <jawnsy> this way, you can see exactly where things will install, without actually installing the binary. note that this works with any Debian (or Ubuntu) package :-)
[01:48] <gwolf> ...or, conveniently, just debc *deb
[01:48] <jawnsy> the Debian Perl philosophy is very much like the Perl philosophy -- there's more than one way to do it!
[01:49] <jawnsy> So at this time we'd like to ask the floor for any questions they might have
[01:49] <jawnsy> by now you've packaged your first Perl module, and I bet you're thinking, wow, that was easy :-)
[01:49] <gwolf> agree :)
[01:50] <jawnsy> in the Debian pkg-perl team we have more scripts which help us with this sort of thing, but right now you've got enough know-how to build Perl modules on your local machine
[01:50] <gwolf> ..and soon afterwards, we will stat talking about how to do this in a better organized way, how to contribute to your distribution, and how to be rich and famous! (or at least, how to get to travel quite a bit)
[01:50] <nhandler> How would I go about getting this module uploaded to Debian and maintained by pkg-perl ?
[01:50] <nhandler> ;)
[01:50] <jawnsy> That, is quite a good question.
[01:51] <jawnsy> OKay let me dispel some myths first of all
[01:51] <jawnsy> Many people seem to think that in order to contribute to Debian or Ubuntu, you've got to be a Debian Developer, or a Ubuntu Developer
[01:51] <jawnsy> the pkg-perl team is a great way to get involved in both Debian and Ubuntu
[01:51] <gwolf> good!
[01:52] <jawnsy> and best of all, you don't need to be a full-fleged Developer
[01:52] <gwolf> In fact, it is a great way to check how your packaging is, and have other people do the heavy lifting
[01:52] <gwolf> ...Our team, as I said earlier, has around 15 active members (from a much larger list).
[01:52] <jawnsy> Basically, under the pkg-perl team, we maintain all our packages as a group
[01:53] <jawnsy> It's nice because if you ever get stuck, you have a great support network of people to ask for help
[01:53] <gwolf> Of course, to be able to become active in it, you should at least know the basics of Perl and Debian packaging, and be interested and willing to work on any potential bugs
[01:53] <jawnsy> And, more importantly, it's never hard finding a sponsor -- many Ubuntu and Debian developers are part of the group :-)
[01:53] <gwolf> (hold a second for me, we are being moved to a different laboratory)
[01:53] <jawnsy> maddeth: how did your build go?
[01:53] <maddeth> flawlessly thankyou
[01:54] <maddeth> just running a few things through my head :)
[01:54] <jawnsy> Please folks, if you have questions, feel free to ask. And if you're packaging something for your own use later and you come across something else, feel free to join our group channel and ask us
[01:54] <jawnsy> the pkg-perl group sits on IRC at irc.debian.org (OFTC) #debian-perl
[01:55] <gwolf> ready
[01:55] <jawnsy> If you're looking for a way to really make your mark on Debian or Ubuntu, please join the group. You don't need any prior experience to join the group
[01:55] <gwolf> ok... So in order to work on this group, there is a couple of things to add to your skillset
[01:55] <gwolf> First of all, as I said, we collectively maintain ~1300 packages
[01:56] <gwolf> The best (only?) way we can do this is to coordinate it via a version control system
[01:56] <gwolf> that ensures we all share each other's package modifications - And we use SVN (Subversion) for it
[01:57] <gwolf> Before anybody asks - there has been talk regarding how to move our workflow towards the much more agile and flexible Git
[01:57] <gwolf> ..We will get to it, sooner or later.
[01:57] <jawnsy> having things in subversion or any VCS really.. is indispensible
[01:57] <jawnsy> for example I could ask gwolf to take a look at something for me and help me figure out why it's not building
[01:57] <gwolf> And taht also allows us to do transversal, large-scale updates
[01:58] <gwolf> i.e. if we were to decide to, say, change some part of our build process, we could run it from one single place, for all of our packages
[01:59] <gwolf> of course, we would have to do each change separately (i.e. via a script), but it would be grouped into one logical entity - into a single commit.
[01:59] <gwolf> Anyway - where to look for this information?
[01:59] <jawnsy> Seriously, if you've got some free time and a passion to learn something new, I would really recommend joining the group
[02:00] <gwolf> Well, the main pointer holder is at the group's (very basic!) page: http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/
[02:00] <gwolf> This page just holds pointers to our inside bits
[02:00] <gwolf> I would read them (and refer to them) in +- the following order:
[02:00] <jawnsy> The great thing about Open Source is that if you want something, you can just dive in and do it yourself
[02:01] <jawnsy> I myself have 91 packages in Debian's main repository, and like I said, I'm not a Debian Developer :-)
[02:01] <gwolf> - How does this group use Subversion? http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/subversion.html   (includes a short guide on a great tool we have, which is indispensable for our work: svn-buildpackage)
[02:01] <jawnsy> it's a great way to get some experience working on Debian and Ubuntu. It's a great way to enhance your system
[02:01] <jawnsy> actually being part of the group, I come across a lot of really neat modules while packaging them
[02:01] <jawnsy> so it's useful in that sense too
[02:02] <gwolf> - The Perl packaging policy: http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/policy.html
[02:02] <gwolf> jawnsy: That's really true. And you never know who will be the next person to show you something new
[02:02] <jawnsy> plus, I've met some really nice people in the pkg-perl group that I am honoured to call my friends
[02:03] <gwolf> - General tips and tricks: http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/tips.html
[02:03] <jawnsy> joining the group is a huge plus if you're looking to get some experience coding
[02:03] <jawnsy> we do a lot of things in the group which are transferable skills
[02:03] <jawnsy> for example managing the bug system, dealing with other people, discussing new ideas
[02:03] <maddeth> thankyou for the tutorial, I need my sleep now :)
[02:04] <gwolf> http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/pet.cgi - possibly the best reference point we have towards the current status of all of our packages
[02:04] <gwolf> (looking for quilt's...)
[02:04] <gwolf> http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/howto/quilt.html
[02:05] <gwolf> This last one: Not very often, we will have to patch (modify) the author's code in order to route around a problem
[02:05] <gwolf> The best way to do so, keeping everything most traceable, is using the Quilt patch management system.
[02:06] <gwolf> jawnsy: dam (in #debian-perl) is most right! We forgot one of the most important files to check: debian/copyright
[02:06] <jawnsy> I thought that'd be a bit too much for a gentle introduction
[02:06] <gwolf> debian, and Ubuntu (although to a smaller degree) really base their work on respect to Free Software
[02:07] <gwolf> in order for a package to be built (and yes, this time it _is_ a requirement), it has to list its copyright information
[02:07] <gwolf> debian/copyright is a human-readable (and increasingly, machine-readable - but that's not necessarily yet a given) file explaining which licensing scheme does this particular package follow
[02:08] <gwolf> Most usually, Perl modules are licensed "under the same terms of Perl itself"
[02:08] <gwolf> that means, under the GNU GPL 1 or any posterior version or under the Artistic license, at your choice
[02:08] <gwolf> so, yes, this has to be listed in debian/copyright
[02:09] <gwolf> jawnsy: so... where should we go from here? At 03:10, my brain is drying, and I think I'd appreciate some Q&A
[02:09] <jawnsy> increasingly a lot of companes are working with Debian and Ubuntu
[02:09] <jawnsy> so joining the group and learning the ins and outs of maintaining packages could very well help you land a sysadmin-type job
[02:10] <gwolf> of course - it is highly visible, permanent professional information you can talk about
[02:10] <jawnsy> a lot of companies use locally build packages for distributing and updating even internal packages for distribution to their production servers
[02:11] <jawnsy> but yes, I'd like to open the floor to any questions
[02:11] <gwolf> so, people... is there any of you awake+online? :-}
[02:11] <gwolf> Are there any questions?
[02:11] <gwolf> There is a lot of where to go on... but I think we have mostly covered the basics
[02:12] <nhandler> So if I am not a Debian Developer, how could I get my package uploaded? Would I need to go through mentors.debian.net ?
[02:12] <jawnsy> If you are reading the log of this talk later on, and you have questions, feel free to come on irc.debian.org #debian-perl and ask :-)
[02:12] <jawnsy> That is a very good question :-)
[02:12] <gwolf> nhandler: no, not necessarily
[02:12] <jawnsy> just by joining the pkg-perl team, you can skip the mentors process if you desire
[02:12] <gwolf> nhandler: If the package is a Perl one, going through mentors would certainly be among the slowest ways possible
[02:12] <gwolf> The first thing to do is to get an Alioth account
[02:13] <jawnsy> personally, like I say I'm not a DD, I've never uploaded a package through a mentor
[02:13] <jawnsy> the purpose of a mentor is to review your package and help you with building it, fixing up the necessary control files, and uploading it
[02:13] <gwolf> Alioth (http://alioth.debian.org) is Debian's online collaboration subsystem, it is a GForge-derived site
[02:13] <jawnsy> thankfully, the DD sponsors in our group serve the same purpose
[02:14] <gwolf> Alioth is open to DDs and non-DDs, with the sole difference that you will have '-guest' appended to your login in case you are not a DD (yet?)
[02:14] <jawnsy> they also teach newcomers how to build Debian Perl packages (similar to what we've discussed here today, but also covering some rarer cases)
[02:14] <gwolf> But yes, it is common to find a newbie in the #debian-perl group asking how to join and what to do
[02:14] <jawnsy> we are a rather informal group.. more of a collection of friendly people
[02:15] <gwolf> nhandler: So, to round your question: You request an Alioth account and svn-inject your package
[02:15] <gwolf> nhandler: ...We will notice it and build it, usually soon
[02:16] <jawnsy> working with our SVN workflow is a totally different lecture for a different day, but it's not hard. we have tools, like svn-inject as gwolf mentioned, that help us do it
[02:16] <gwolf> oh, of course, you have to request to join the pkg-perl group once you have your Alioth account
[02:16] <jawnsy> anyway, barring any other questions, it looks like we can draw this talk to a close
[02:17] <nhandler> You mentioned that you maintain ~1300 packages. How do you keep track of which ones need to be updated, and which have bugs?
[02:17] <jawnsy> We have a tool (yay, another tool) called the Package Entropy Tracker
[02:17] <gwolf>  http://pkg-perl.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/pet.cgi
[02:17] <jawnsy> ah I was finding the link, beat me to it gwolf :-)
[02:17] <gwolf> :)
[02:18] <jawnsy> as you can see from the page, it lets us know what we need to fix -- packages with really important bugs, packages with new upstream versions (that's what the watch file was about)
[02:18] <jawnsy> and it allows us to collaborate as a group -- so for example I don't do something to a package gwolf is working on
[02:18] <jawnsy> (otherwise one of us would be doing double work)
[02:19] <gwolf> The IRC channel is a great place to hang out (and I very seldom join any IRC channels - But this one is actually productive!)
[02:19] <nhandler> So does that mean that I can work on any package maintained by pkg-perl? Even if someone else packaged it?
[02:19] <jawnsy> generally, yes it does. If you want to dive in, feel free to do so!
[02:19] <gwolf> Of course. Every now and then people appear. And some others disappear
[02:19] <gwolf> And even if no one does - If I find a package that needs love, and have love to give, I will work on it
[02:20] <jawnsy> it's a really great way to get experience working with Perl modules, but in a less aggressive way than writing ones for CPAN
[02:20] <gwolf> Usually, whenever you update a package, you will add yourself as an uploader to it (which means, claim responsablity for its maintenance)
[02:20] <jawnsy> for example we do a lot of Quality Assurance stuff, like fix outstanding bugs
[02:20] <jawnsy> one great thing about our package system, and as gwolf mentioned earlier, quilt... is that we can ensure good QA
[02:20] <jawnsy> by fixing modules ourselves if necessary.
[02:21] <gwolf> ...and more easily push the changes up to the authors
[02:21] <jawnsy> so let's say there's a serious security issue with a package. well, in Debian we can just patch it ourselves, and push out a new release, while simultaneously working with the upstream author to resolve the issue
[02:21] <jawnsy> in that way, Debian and Ubuntu users are safe, even if the Upstream maintainer doesn't know about or doesn't fix a package
[02:22] <jawnsy> actually a lot of upstream CPAN authors sort of just abandon their stuff, so the pkg-perl team takes care of its long-term maintenance
[02:22]  * gwolf yawns
[02:22] <gwolf> people, any questions?
[02:22] <jawnsy> it's something I think is tremendously useful experience
[02:22] <jawnsy> just how to debug things, how to work with bug systems
[02:22] <gwolf> If you don't fire...I'll go to sleep!
[02:22] <jawnsy> these are things you often won't learn in school, but that can make all the difference in your career
[02:22] <jawnsy> whether you hit the ground running or whether you'll have to start crawling ;-)
[02:22] <gwolf> I completely agree with jawnsy
[02:23] <gwolf> Anyway... jawnsy: I think we should call this as done
[02:23] <jawnsy> yep. thanks everyone for listening, I hope it's been a good experience for everyone
[02:23] <gwolf> jawnsy: nhandler says the logs will be available
=== jawnsy changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Ubuntu Classroom || https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training || Upcoming: July 30 @ 06:00 UTC: Mozilla packaging techniques (extensions, patchsystems, bzr) || Run 'date -u' in a terminal to find out the UTC time
[02:24] <gwolf> I hope you found this interesting, and hope to have you on board on the team!
[02:24] <nhandler> Logs will be at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training/Logs/2009-07-23
[02:24] <nhandler> Thank you jawnsy and gwolf for leading this session
[02:24] <porthose> jawnsy gwolf, thx  great session
[02:24] <gwolf> thank you for inviting!
[02:24] <nhandler> Remember, if you have and questions, the pkg-perl team is in #debian-perl on irc.debian.org
[02:24] <jawnsy> and if you're at DebConf you can have a beer with gwolf :-)
[02:25] <jawnsy> thanks to the Ubuntu community for having us, and for working so closely with Debian to the benefit of both communities
[02:25] <gwolf> jawnsy: And with dam, and with gregoa, and with diocles!
[02:25] <gwolf> Thank you all, even if you removed our Op modes ;-)
[02:26] <jawnsy> I really hope you all take the opportunity to be a bit social.. feel free to drop by just to say hi, even :-)
[02:26] <jawnsy> the Ubuntu and Debian projects are both highly social, so I hope you all take the chance to participate everywhere you can, when you can
[02:26] <gwolf> jawnsy: And by all means, specifically you, try to join a DebConf in the future!
[02:26] <gwolf> Anyway, I'm heading off
[02:26] <gwolf> nice being here, hope to see you in our little channel!
</pre>
----
CategoryPackaging
