{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 <<BR>>

== Packaging Training ==
Based on the success of the past MOTU Q&A sessions and UbuntuDeveloperWeek and UbuntuOpenWeek sessions, regularly scheduled '''Packaging Training''' sessions are being planned. These weekly one-hour sessions in <nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/#ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki> on Libera.chat will consist of short demonstrations and offer plenty of time to ask all kind of questions.

=== Upcoming sessions ===
Mark the times in your calendar!

* TBD…

Future Packaging Training Sessions can also be found on <nowiki>[[Classroom|Ubuntu Classroom]]</nowiki> Calendar <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~nhandler/classroom.html|online]]</nowiki>, and in <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/feeds/canonical.com_qg6t4s8i7mg8d4lgfu9f93qid4%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic|XML]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/ical/canonical.com_qg6t4s8i7mg8d4lgfu9f93qid4%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics|iCal]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=canonical.com_qg6t4s8i7mg8d4lgfu9f93qid4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=UTC|HTML]]</nowiki> formats.

* Stay on top of things and subscribe to the RSS feed of http://ubuntuclassroom.wordpress.com/
* Note: For help on time equivalents around the world, visit <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/|Time and Date World Clock]]</nowiki>

If you are interested in leading a session, and none of these times will work for you, please contact one of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~packaging-training-coordinators/+members|Packaging Training Coordinators]]</nowiki>.

=== Multi-lingual? ===
When possible multilingual developers will be available in `#ubuntu-classroom-chat-{de,es,fr,it,..}` who can answer questions for those newcomers that are not too familiar with the English language yet.

Want to get started with Ubuntu development and packaging? Come to the next session! Is there a specific topic you want to learn about? Leave a suggestion! Do you have packaging techniques you think other developers should know about? Schedule a session! '''Short presentations are absolutely OK. A 15 minute demo is exactly what we're aiming for to allow enough time for questions afterward.'''

=== Regularity ===
We are going to try hard to maintain a regular schedule and plan to have sessions always at these times:
* 1st Thursday of the month,  6:00 UTC
* 2nd Thursday of the month, 12:00 UTC
* 3rd Thursday of the month, 18:00 UTC
* 4th Thursday of the month,  0:00 UTC
* (5th Thursday of the month, 6:00 UTC)

Of course these times are not set in stone, so if you should only be able to give a session at a certain time, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~packaging-training-coordinators/+members|talk to us]]</nowiki>, we'll sort something out.

=== Resources ===
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-GettingStarted]]</nowiki> - Take the first steps in becoming a Master Of The Universe!
* <nowiki>[[MOTU-Videos]]</nowiki> - Links to MOTU video tutorials and interviews
* <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-HandsOn]]</nowiki> - Some hands on packaging tutorials.
* <nowiki>[[https://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/|The Ubuntu Packaging Guide]]</nowiki> - The complete guide to packaging for Ubuntu.
----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[Packaging]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
CategoryPackaging
