{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
[12:33] <valsum> here is our instructor, hey daniel
[13:00] <dholbach> WELCOME EVERYBODY TO THIS SESSION!
[13:00] <dholbach> Who do we have here for Patch Reviewing and Operation Cleansweep today?
[13:00] <revolverXD> me
[13:00] <paultag> dholbach, I'll be in and out, but I'd love to help you guys.
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi || Questions in #ubuntu-classroom-chat || Current Session: Packaging Training: Patch Review and Operation Cleansweep - Instructor: dholbach
[13:01] <dholbach> who else? come on, don't be shy :)
[13:01] <norax> me
[13:01] <dholbach> Awesome!
[13:01] <dholbach> Most importantly, read and bookmark this page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReviewersTeam/ReviewGuide
=== devildante is now known as devildante-busy-
[13:02] <dholbach> The reason we're working on Operation Cleansweep is simple: we have quite a bunch of bugs with attached patches in Launchpad
=== devildante-busy- is now known as devildante
[13:02] <dholbach> The reason for that is simple too: there were times when we are all were very busy, or it was about packages that nobody knew much about, or sometimes "patches" would get attached that weren't really patches, or didn't apply, etc.
[13:03] <dholbach> there's lots of reasons why we're sitting on this big pile of patches and need to do something about them now
[13:03] <dholbach> nigelb and others thought long about the problem and came up with the process described on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReviewersTeam/ReviewGuide
[13:03] <dholbach> basically it works like this:
[13:03] <dholbach>  - try to reproduce the problem
[13:03] <dholbach>  - test patch
[13:04] <dholbach>  - if urgent: get into distro
[13:04] <dholbach>  - forward upstream if applicable
[13:04] <dholbach>  - forward to debian if applicable
[13:04] <dholbach> if it's not so urgent, we can wait for it to get to us via upstream
[13:05] <dholbach> it's good to get an opinion from somebody who maintains the package either as the software author or as the debian maintainer
[13:05] <dholbach> are there any questions up until here? :)
[13:05] <dholbach> all clear? :)
[13:05] <paultag> dholbach, you might be covering this -- but is there an easy way to search LP for patches that are "unaswered" ?
[13:05] <dholbach> yes, I'll cover that in a sec :)
[13:06] <paultag> unanswered *
[13:06] <dholbach> alright
[13:06] <dholbach> let's get into patches :)
[13:06] <dholbach> erm
[13:06] <dholbach> into bug tags :)
[13:07] <dholbach> we have a script that tagged lots of bugs with 'patch' to indicate that it's in our queue
[13:07] <dholbach> if you find out that the patch does not apply or not work or not make sense, use patch-needswork
[13:07] <dholbach> once you forwarded it upstream and / or debian, use patch-forwarded-upstream and patch-forwarded-debian
[13:07] <dholbach> once it was accepted there, use patch-accepted-upstream (or patch-accepted-debian)
[13:08] <dholbach> (that gives a nice todo list for people who want to integrate it into Ubuntu then)
[13:08] <dholbach> if it gets rejected there, use patch-rejected-upstream (or patch-rejected-debian)
[13:09] <dholbach> If the patch is unnecessary or addresses something that does not need to be fixed, add tag patch-rejected, give reason in the comments, and if required close the bug to Won't Fix.
[13:09] <dholbach> paultag: so all patches that weren't answered yet, don't have one of these tags :)
[13:10] <dholbach> paultag: we have a query for that and it's on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperationCleansweep
[13:10] <paultag> Ah, awesome.
[13:10] <paultag> I was just putting one together :P
[13:10] <dholbach> also do we put together http://daniel.holba.ch/review/example.html :-D
[13:10] <dholbach> if you want to put that on your webpage, that'd be nice :)
[13:11] <dholbach> does the process generally make sense? or are there any questions about it?
[13:12] <dholbach> some people wondered why we used so many tags - it's simply because we want to make a statement about all these patches - right now it just looks like there's 2000 patches dangling there
[13:12] <dholbach> but we don't know much about the individual statuses
[13:13] <dholbach> I realise that some of the points I mentioned above sound easy but can be hairy
[13:13] <dholbach> for example "test the patch"
[13:13] <dholbach> or "forward upstream"
[13:13] <dholbach> or "if applicable"
[13:13] <norax> how long do we have to wait to upstream? or how do you define urgent?.
[13:13] <dholbach> norax: exactly :)
[13:13] <dholbach> for that reason we set up https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReviewersTeam/KnowledgeBase - it has short articles on almost all of these questions
[13:14] <dholbach> norax: your questions are tough :)
[13:14] <dholbach> obviously it's all about striking the balance between "getting important information from upstream" vs "getting the fix into Ubuntu because it fixes a real problem"
[13:15] <dholbach> it goes without saying that the closer we are to upstream the better for everybody
[13:15] <dholbach> but you know, there's release deadlines, there's people going on holidays, and sometimes there's thousands of users bitten by the bug
[13:15] <dholbach> on the other hand there's patches that are huge and don't make sense to you or make integral changes
[13:16] <dholbach> if you're unsure, ask somebody else
[13:16] <dholbach> if the patch really needs to go into Ubuntu (while being discussed upstream), make use of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SponsorshipProcess
[13:17] <dholbach> norax: I know this was hand-wavy, but does it answer the question somewhat?
[13:17] <norax> yes, thx
[13:17] <dholbach> if you have an obvious fix that fixes a HUGE and IMMEDIATE problem, forward it upstream and get it into Ubuntu ASAP :)
[13:18] <dholbach> I realise that sometimes it's a bit harder to say :)
[13:18] <dholbach> are there any more questions?
[13:19] <devildante> Can we sponsorship a patch that is not ours?
[13:19] <dholbach> sure
[13:20] <dholbach> it's important the patch was tested and makes sense
[13:21] <dholbach> the easier for the sponsors the patch is, the better
[13:21] <dholbach> :)
[13:22] <dholbach> if there are no more questions, we could just all go and join #ubuntu-reviews and work on a few patches and bugs together
[13:22] <dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperationCleansweep has the link you need in bright yellow
[13:23] <dholbach> was there anything else that seemed unclear or whooly?
[13:24] <revolverXD> i guess is should not try that if im quite a new user to linux?
[13:25] <dholbach> revolverXD: if you're not afraid of playing around with patches and trying things out, then it should be fine
[13:25] <dholbach> any other questions?
[13:25] <rsajdok> dholbach: you might be covering this "once you forwarded it upstream and / or debian"
[13:26] <dholbach> rsajdok: what is your question? how to forward something to debian or upstream?
[13:27] <dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Debian/Bugs for example explains how to forward bugs and patches to debian
[13:27] <dholbach> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Upstream/GNOME does the same thing for gnome
[13:27] <rsajdok> dholbach: yes, how to forward patch to upstream?
[13:27] <dholbach> plus there's always people in #ubuntu-bugs or #ubuntu-reviews who can help you with that
[13:28] <dholbach> it makes sense to have a look for existing bugs already that discuss the problem
[13:28] <rsajdok> dholbach: ok, thanks
[13:28] <dholbach> in the case of debian you send an email
[13:28] <dholbach> in the case of gnome (and lots of others), you need a login for their bugtracker
[13:28] <dholbach> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libpcap/+bug/523349 is an example of that
[13:28] <ubot2> Ubuntu bug 523349 in libpcap (Debian) (and 1 other project) "Bad /sys path to text-based usbmon (affects: 2) (dups: 1) (heat: 29)" [Unknown,Fix released]
[13:29] <dholbach> as you can see the bug is in ubuntu and debian
[13:29] <dholbach> so Launchpad can (once you
[13:29] <dholbach> forward the bug/patch and added that info to the bug in LP)
[13:29] <dholbach> keep track of the bug report
[13:29] <dholbach> and give you updates about the status
[13:30] <dholbach> does it all make sense so far? :)
[13:31] <dholbach> if not, you can all complain to nigelb
[13:32] <dholbach> alright - I suggest we all hang out in #ubuntu-reviews now and each pick a few bugs off the list of https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperationCleansweep
[13:32] <rsajdok> dholbach: ok:)
[13:32] <dholbach> if there's any questions coming up, we can have a look at them together
[13:32] <dholbach> thanks a lot for all the good questions so far
[13:51] <ClassBot> There are are 10 minutes remaining in the current session.
[13:53] <norax> when you submit a path to debian, I suppose that you send them the debdiff. But what is the standard type of file to be submitted upstream?
[13:54] <dholbach> norax: just a diff -    diff -ruN old-directory new-directory > patch     should normally do
[13:56] <ClassBot> There are are 5 minutes remaining in the current session.
[13:56] <dholbach> (or: diff -u old-file new-file)
[14:00] <norax> thanks. It seems that session is finishing so thanks for your speech.
[14:00] <dholbach> thanks norax
=== ChanServ changed the topic of #ubuntu-classroom to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Classroom - http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom || Support in #ubuntu || Upcoming Schedule: http://is.gd/8rtIi
[14:01] <paultag> thanks dholbach!
[14:01] <devildante> thanks dholbach :)
[14:01] <dholbach> let's continue in #ubuntu-reviews
[14:01] <nigelb> thanks dholbach
[14:01]  * nigelb hugs dholbach :)
</pre>
