{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Plan to develop automatic package creation from PyPI ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/pypi|PyPI]]</nowiki>

Author: VincenzoDiMassa

==== Introduction ====

This wikipage describes the ongoing effort to develop an auto package builder for python modules.
The auto package builder will be able to create packages by:
 1. downloading the package distribuntion from <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/pypi|PyPI]]</nowiki>
 2. downloading and building the package source distribuntion from <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/pypi|PyPI]]</nowiki>
 3. using the setup.py of a modules's source distribution
<<BR>>
'''WARNING''': the structure of the created package will be compatible with the goals of PythonModulePackaging: a single package of each module will be installed and will work with all python implementaions ubuntu supports.

==== SetupTools ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/pypi/setuptools/|SetupTools]]</nowiki> can download a module from PyPI, create an egg (a sort of python callable package) and install it.<<BR>>
It requires a modificaion to the .pth file in site-packages to make the python eggs available on sys.path.<<BR>>
A python-egg can be considered as a directory containing a module and its packaging related files ( EGG-INFO/PKG-INFO ~= debian/control ).

==== Planned usage of Setuptools ====

Because Setuptools:
 1. can already download and install packages from PyPI
 2. is actively developed
 3. exists 
I think using them would be a good idea. (thanks Matthias)<<BR>>
My plan is:
 1. create a <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/pypi/setuptools/|SetupTools]]</nowiki> updated debian package
 2. provide an <nowiki>[[#AddonModule|addon module]]</nowiki> that can generate an ubuntu package using SetupTools]
 3. <nowiki>[[#Warining|After step 2]]</nowiki> actually generate the pakage

===== Addon Module =====
The addon module will just be a script like easy_install.py which will create a python module debian package of the module specified as argument.<<BR>>
For example to create the debian package for the graph module:
<pre>
$ easy_install_deb graph
$ ls 
...
...
graph_x.y.z-1_noarch.deb
...
...
$
</pre>

=== Problems ===
I'm actually understanding what requirements are unmet as of now:
* ''Build Dependencies'' which are not python modules:
** Big problem: dependencies should be read PyPI but must refer to something that can be converted into debian packages. <<BR>>
     We need a convension to refer to common depencies between debian/ubuntu/python. <<BR>>
     PyPI uses a ''first came wins'' policy for the external dependency specification.
** '''I am Ignoring this problem''' since I can't find a solution <code>(gurun_meditation_mode(true); open_for_suggestions(true);)</code>
