{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

As a bug triager or developer, bug status is an important tool to categorize bugs and have a good overview of the state of packages and software.

Here's a brief list and explanation of the various statuses:

* '''Unconfirmed:''' Bugs start with this status. Bugs marked Unconfirmed sometimes lack information, are not ready, or are not confirmed yet. Most of them have not yet been triaged.
* '''Incomplete:''' If you have to ask the reporter questions, please set this bug to "Incomplete". A regular task for "Incomplete" bugs is to follow up with the reporter. If there are no answers after a reasonable period, close them saying "If you have more information on this bug, please reopen."
* '''Invalid:''' Bugs marked as "Invalid" are closed. Be sure to triple-check a bug before you invalidate it.
* '''Confirmed:''' Confirmed bugs require somebody else to confirm. Please don't confirm your own bugs.
* '''In Progress:''' If you start working on a bug, set it to In Progress so people know someone is working on the bug.
* '''Fix Committed:''' For upstream projects this means the fix is in CVS/SVN/bzr or committed somewhere. For package maintainers it means that the changes are pending and to be uploaded soon (it is what PENDINGUPLOAD is in Bugzilla)
* '''Fix Released:''' For upstream projects this means that a release tarball was announced and is publicly available. For package maintainers this means that a fix was uploaded. Please don't be hesitant to add a changelog as a comment, so people know which changes affect their bug(s).

