{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:package-supportedness-ui
* '''Contributors''': MichaelVogt
* '''Packages affected''': synaptic

=== Summary ===

There are multiple levels of support in the package archive. Packages that are part of ubuntu server are supported for 5 years on LTS releases, packages of ubuntu desktop are supported 3 years for LTS and other packages in main are supported for 18 months on a LTS. This is currently not reflected in the packaging tools UI in hardy. We need to rovide a UI that shows what package has what support status in hardy.

=== Rationale ===

The support level is very important information to our users and we currently do not have a way to present it in hardy.

=== Design ===

Synaptic supports a filter that is based on a static package name list. We use that to add three new preset filters to synaptic:
<pre>
Supported for 5 years
Supported for 3 years
Supported for 18 months
</pre>

The static list of package names is build based on the seeds list and reviewed by Colin Watson.

=== Implementation ===

The implementation for this spec is done in the http://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/synaptic/hardy

The list of packages with the different support statues needs to be agreed upon and added, otherwise the package is ready for hardy-updates.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Test:

# Install the new synaptic
# Start it via System/Administration/Synaptic Package Manager
# Click on "Custom Filters" and there on "Supported for 5 years"

=== Outstanding Issues ===

The list of packages with the various support statuses need to be provided

---
CategorySpec
