{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:45%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|-
| '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pak33m|pak33m]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| '''pak33m'''
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''pak33m'''
|-
| '''Email''':
| harris[dot]jimmy[at]gmail[dot]com <<BR>> pak33m[at]ubuntu[dot]com
|}

== About ==

My name is Jimmy Harris.  I am an Application Engineer for a company that distributes management software for school districts within the US and Canada.  Most of my job involves systems administration, project management and writing technical documentation.

I live in Orlando, Florida. I enjoy spending all of the time I can with my two sweet baby girls.  Other than that I am busy with Ubuntu, music and exploring great wine.
 
I have been using Ubuntu since the release of 5.04 Hoary Hedgehog. Since then I have truly made Ubuntu an undeniable part of my life.  I am committed to the Ubuntu Community at large and advocating the use of Ubuntu within my community.

== Involvement ==

=== Official ===

* Joined and became a member of the Ubuntu FloridaTeam in March 2006.
* Volunteered as Meeting Moderator, Minutes Recorder and and Reporter for the Ubuntu FloridaTeam.
* Volunteered on the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Wiki|Wiki]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/MeetTeam|Meeting]]</nowiki> sub-teams for the Ubuntu FloridaTeam.
* Helped get the Ubuntu FloridaTeam to be an approved Ubuntu LoCo Team.
* Volunteered as Meeting Moderator, Minutes Recorder and Reporter for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams|USTeams]]</nowiki>.
* Helped with the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams|USTeams]]</nowiki> goal of getting an Ubuntu LoCo Team in all 50 states by the end of 2007. 
* Volunteered as Minutes Recorder and Reporter for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/IRC|Ubuntu Mentor Project]]</nowiki>
* Volunteered as a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams|USTeams]]</nowiki> Mentor for the Ubuntu AlaskaTeam.
* Coordinated Ubuntu Gutsy, Feisty, Hardy, Intrepid and Jaunty ReleaseParties for the Ubuntu FloridaTeam.
* Coordinated reoccurring BugJams for the Ubuntu FloridaTeam.
* Represented the Ubuntu FloridaTeam at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulive.com|Ubuntu Live]]</nowiki> in July 2007. 
* Represented the Ubuntu FloridaTeam at the FloridaLinuxShow Jacksonville for two years both as a team member and DJ for the event.
* Represented the Ubuntu FloridaTeam at the SouthEastLinuxfest South Carolina both as a team member and DJ for the event in June 2009.
* Participated in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day|5-A-Day]]</nowiki> project as part of a reoccurring BugJam for the Ubuntu FlordiaTeam.
* Participated in the continuation of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/5-A-Day|5-A-Day]]</nowiki> project as a part of my personal involvement in triaging bugs.  
* Participate in reoccurring BugJam for the Ubuntu FlordiaTeam.
* Participate in reoccurring PackagingJam for the Ubuntu FlordiaTeam.
* Participated in reoccurring UbuntuOpenWeek sessions as a part of my personal involvement in Ubuntu Community.  
* Created the Ubuntu FloridaTeam <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects|Projects]]</nowiki> wiki page to manage team events.
 
=== Non-Official ===

* In pursuit of the LPI and UCP certifications.
* Self study many other system administration and some programming technologies. 

=== Member Of ===

{*} Ubuntu FloridaTeam

{*} Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams|US Teams Mentor]]</nowiki>

{*} Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|Member]]</nowiki>

=== Goals ===

* Mentor more Ubuntu LoCo Teams.
* Get more in touch with and advocate to the the Ubuntu user base through the Ubuntu FloridaTeam and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams|US Teams]]</nowiki>.
* Coordinate more events for the Ubuntu FloridaTeam.
* Become an Ubuntu Member.

==== Testimonials ====
Jimmy Harris is a great asset for Ubuntu and the Florida Local Community Team. He has been the Team Contact and organizer for all events the Florida Team has taken part of in Orlando. He has made a great effort to attend every team meeting we've had since the begining, and has provided the team with very good ideas on how and where we can make improvements. He has not done this in a critical way, but genuinely in efforts to help improve the team overall. He is involved with other Ubuntu Projects and is a great contributor for all of those other teams. Another really cool thing about Jimmy, He is Florida Team's resident DJ, and represented the Team DJ'ing for the Florida Linux Show earlier this year. With outstanding members like Jimmy it's no wonder LoCo's Rule! I would highly recommend Jimmy as an Ubuntu Member, without hesitation. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> ----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
