{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Welcome ===

This is the Official wiki page of the Pakistan Local Community Team and is updated frequently to reflect the team's work. Ubuntu Pakistan provides free community support to users of all flavours of Ubuntu Linux as well as advocates the use of Ubuntu for adoption and widespread usage by individuals and organisations alike throughout Pakistan. 

* The Ubuntu Pakistan community and memberships is available 24/7 online on Facebook at: <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=27138955736]]</nowiki>. 

Members are free to organize Ubuntu Meet-ups for Ubuntu users in their regions around Pakistan as well as keeping in touch via our active mailing list. Don't forget to update the Facebook page about any events you are holding around Ubuntu or simply join the active discussions underway. Members can make their own groups, install festivals, conferences etc.

=== Who is this group for? ===

This group is for anyone in Pakistan who uses or is interested any flavour of Ubuntu, whether it's Ubuntu, Kubuntu or any other. Even if you want to learn about Ubuntu, this is the place to start. Simply said, the Ubuntu Pakistan Community is for Pakistani's of all technical abilities from I've-never-heard-of-linux all the way to I'm-an-Ubuntu-Guru.

=== How do I join? ===

* There is no official process to join, just join our Ubuntu Pakistan Team Facebook Group at <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=27138955736]]</nowiki> or 

* sign up to our <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-pk|Mailing List]]</nowiki> or 

* you can request to chat in our Internet Relay Chat (IRC) chatroom (#ubuntu-pk on irc.freenode.net). 

* You can also add yourself to the list of current members in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-pk|launchpad]]</nowiki>. 

* If you are interested in contributing to Ubuntu-Linux Development activities, you can do so through Translating Ubuntu into Urdu language and you can sign up at [ubuntu-l10n-urd@lists.ubuntu.com l10n Urdu Translation Mailing List] and

* add yourself to the current members list at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-ur|launchpad]]</nowiki>.

=== News ===

* Pakistan Team  at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-pk|Launchpad]]</nowiki> created by Fouad Riaz Bajwa in early 2005.
* Half a million Pakistani citizens have received Free Ubuntu CDs and made aware about Ubuntu Linux.
* 4800 Ubuntu Linux Users from 506 companies and organizations trained and certified free of charge.
* l10n Urdu Translation Team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-ur|Launchpad]]</nowiki> created by Noumaan Yaqoob, Team Lead l10n Urdu Translation Team and Project. 
* Ubuntu-Linux hits mainstream media, Cover Stories by Ubuntu-Pk members in <nowiki>[[http://www.spider.tm|SPIDER Magazine]]</nowiki>.
* My Ubuntu experience, by <nowiki>[[#NoumaanYaqoob|Noumaan Yaqoob]]</nowiki>: A computer user explains his reasons for switching from the near-ubiquitous Windows operating system to a user-friendly   version of Linux called Ubuntu. <nowiki>[[http://www.spider.tm/sep2006/cstory3.html|Read the Story]]</nowiki>  
* Tune your brains, by <nowiki>[[#FouadRiazBajwa|Fouad Riaz Bajwa]]</nowiki>: Open source software has gradually made its way across the shores to Pakistan. It is not only major organisations but alsointerested individuals that can benefit massively from its arrival. <nowiki>[[http://www.spider.tm/sep2006/cstory1.html|Read the Story]]</nowiki>  

=== Support ===

If you need help with anything, you can ask a Pakistan environment specific Ubuntu Linux question on the Ubuntu Pakistan Facebook Group Wall at <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=27138955736]]</nowiki> or  simply post to the Ubuntu Pakistan mailing list <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-pk|mailing list]]</nowiki>. You can also ask on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> although it's not Pakistan specific.  

=== Free Ubuntu-Linux CDs ===

* Order Free Ubuntu Desktop and Server CDs/DVDs from <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|ShipIt]]</nowiki>.  

=== Meetings ===

Ubuntu Pakistan Team Volunteers actively organise face-to-face meetings so members of the team or those interested in being part of the team in their regions can meet and exchange their knowledge, ideas and thoughts on the team/future direction etc. Meetings are organized in offices, colleges, universities or exhibitions as deemed necessary by Ubuntu Pakistan Team volunteers and members.

* Kindly post all meeting reports to Ubuntu Pakistan Team's Facebook Group at <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=27138955736]]</nowiki>

=== Projects ===

This is a list of proposed projects/sub-teams for further development, listed in alphabetical order.  Please add your name to the list as a member if you would like to get involved.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Project'''
| <#f0f5fa>'''Brief'''
| <#f0f5fa>'''To Do '''
| <#f0f5fa>'''Status'''
| <#f0f5fa>'''Members'''
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Ubuntu Localization into Urdu Language'''
| <#f0f5fa>Ubuntu Urdu Translators work with the translation of Ubuntu releases into Urdu.
| <#f0f5fa> An on-going activity. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuUrduTranslators|Ubuntu Urdu Translators Wiki]]</nowiki>
| <#0cb13e>Active
| <#f0f5fa><nowiki>[[#NoumaanYaqoob|Noumaan Yaqoob]]</nowiki> Team Lead l10n Urdu Translation Team is leading the project with the following <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-ur|members]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Ubuntu Help Documentation Localization into Urdu Language'''
| <#f0f5fa>Translation of Ubuntu Help Documentation into Urdu.
| <#f0f5fa>Working on Desktop and Server Documents.
| <#0cb13e>Active
| <#f0f5fa><nowiki>[[#WaqasToor|Waqas Toor]]</nowiki> Team Lead Documentation Localization Team
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Ubuntu Linux Meetups'''
| <#f0f5fa>Meet-ups across Pakistan.
| <#f0f5fa>Members across Pakistan are being encouraged to organize Launch Parties and Ubuntu Meetups upon suitability.
| <#0cb13e>Active
| <#f0f5fa><nowiki>[[#FouadRiazBajwa|Fouad Riaz Bajwa]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Ubuntu Linux Across Public and Academic Sectors'''
| <#f0f5fa>Supporting Governments to introduce Ubuntu Linux throughout government offices and public sector schools in Pakistan
| <#f0f5fa>Progress has been made and details have been shared with Canonical Ltd.
| <#0cb13e>Active
| <#f0f5fa><nowiki>[[#FouadRiazBajwa|Fouad Riaz Bajwa]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Seminar Series'''
| <#f0f5fa>Planning Seminars to introduce various FOSS Models and Ubuntu-Linux for 2011
| <#f0f5fa>Official partner for ICOSST'2010 in December. Participated and gave lecture at UET Lahore Open Source Conference Event.
| <#fdfa03>Getting Started
| <#f0f5fa><nowiki>[[#FouadRiazBajwa| Co-ordination-Fouad Riaz Bajwa]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#f0f5fa>'''Ubuntu-Linux Awareness'''
| <#f0f5fa>Continuously in co-ordination with the government to introduce Linux in both Public Sector Organizations, Universities and Business & Industry
| <#f0f5fa>Work has been underway.
| <#0cb13e>Active
| <#f0f5fa>Volunteers
|}

If you have an idea for a project, please add it here or talk to other Pakistan Team people about it!

Guidelines for Project Illustration

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-8 : #f0f5fa tablewidth="44%"> '''Status Indicators'''
|-
| <#b9c9e3>Help Wanted
| <#fdfa03>WIP
| <#ed3232>Deferred
| <#68d056>Awaiting Review
| <#3bff85>In Reviewing
| <#0cb13e>Finished
|}

All tasks/projects have been started as status Help Wanted. Please update this if you're one of the people currently doing it.
 
* '''Help Wanted''' - default state. Please update ASAP with current status.
* '''WIP''' - Work In Progress. Development of the document is currently taking place.
* '''Deferred''' - Document is postponed or cancelled for this release.
* '''Awaiting Review''' - Document is up for review by the DocumentationTeam.
* '''In Review''' - Document is undergoing review by the DocumentationTeam before release.
* '''Finished''' - Document has been reviewed and approved for release.

=== Pakistani Team Members ===

* <nowiki>[[#FouadRiazBajwa|Fouad Riaz Bajwa]]</nowiki> Team Lead Ubuntu Pakistan Team
* <nowiki>[[#NoumaanYaqoob|Noumaan Yaqoob]]</nowiki> Team Lead l10n Urdu Translation Team 
* <nowiki>[[#WaqasToor|Waqas Toor]]</nowiki> Team Lead Documentation Localization Team
* Feel free to take up a leadership role within the community and forward your name to be included in this list or edit this list and add your wiki name.

You may also view Pakistan Team Members at:

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-pk|Ubuntu Pakistan at Launchpad]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-ur|l10n Urdu Translation Team at Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Future Plans ===

Availability of Ubuntu in Urdu Language.

Ubuntu Circles - Community groups to promote the use and adoption of Ubuntu across the country within the social sector.

Promote the use of Ubuntu-Linux by home users and offices to combat software piracy.

Promote the use of Ubuntu-Linux by Government of Pakistan and member educational and research centers of the Higher Education Commission.

Promote the use of Ubuntu-Linux in Telecenters in Pakistan.

The team should continue to organize community events through out the country to spread the spirit of Ubuntu.

=== Ubuntu Pakistani Team Official Online Discussion Forum and Community ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=27138955736|Visit Us Now!]]</nowiki>

=== Contact ===

* '''Ubuntu Pakistan Team Facebook Group''' <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=27138955736]]</nowiki>

* '''Mailing list:''' <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-pk|ubuntu-pk]]</nowiki><<BR>>

* '''Internet Relay Chat (IRC):''' #ubuntu-pk on irc.freenode.net (On prior request only)

----

CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryMarketing CategoryUbuntuTeams
