{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Paolettopn ==

== Name, age, address ==

Paolo, 46 years old 

Friuli Venezia Giulia, Italy

== Ubuntu Stuff ==
* Use Ubuntu from April 2004
* Joined italian Ubuntu member on June 2007 
* FCM Editor since April 2007
* FCM Translator and beta tester since Ago 2007
* Newsletter editor only in the 2008 -2009
* Ham radio project editor on italian wiki since 2010 
 

=== Italian Testing Team ===
* I run private tests since warty.
* Cases Adopted: Ubuntu32desktop.
* My bugs are <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~paolettopn|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu Italian Relators Team ===

* Joined the Italian Relators from october 2009. 

=== Translation group ===
* I would to participate in some work groups and I am now happy for my italian Ubuntu membership.
* I translated some few strings in launchpad for the It localization in some last releases.
* I provide to paginate the italian Full Circle Magazine articles.
* Some years ago we was create a special branch on LP for the FCM Scribus files.
* Other translation on launchpad <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~paolettopn|here]]</nowiki> .

=== My Blog ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.paolettopn.it | News and info and other of Paolettopn]]</nowiki>

=== Why using Ubuntu? ===
Because it is open source software and I love it. 
I use it for all my  works and hobbyes.
It is free, and I.. too.  
So many reasons...
First of all a my personal allergy to blue screen of death (BSOD) and the viruses damages.

=== About me ===
My name is Paolo Garbin, alias "paolettopn", I am born in 1966 and I live in Friuli Venezia Giulia, in Pordenone. My city is Trieste.

My nickname in all internet connections and social networks is ever '''paolettopn'''

My Ubuntu projects and collaborations are: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Fcm|italian FCM edition]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Radioamatori|Radioamatori]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Fcm/Accomplishments|FCM Accomplishment]]</nowiki>

My international ham call are: IV3BVK and K1BVK 

my-mail : , 
IRC: paolettopn on irc.freenode.net channel ubuntu-it-doc, ubuntu-it-trad, ubuntu-it-promo, ubuntu-it-fcm

Jabber: paolettopn on jabber.linux.it

Skype: paolettopn

Facebook and Twitter: Paolo Garbin

Other my personal info, on the ubuntu italian wiki. <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/PaoloGarbin]]</nowiki>
 
----

CategoryHomepage
