{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Partitioning and resizing mockups ==

Based on sketches by MatthewPaulThomas in 2002. May be of interest to the GraphicalPartitioningTool and InstallerSimpleResize <nowiki>[[BOFs]]</nowiki>.

=== Another system on this disk ===
(Appears if one other system detected on the chosen disk)

<pre>
It looks like the Seagate 18.2 GB hard disk has another system, "Windows 98",
on it already. What do you want to do with "Windows 98"?

(*) Leave it there, and choose another disk for Ubuntu
    To choose another disk, click "Go Back".

( ) Put Ubuntu alongside, so you choose a system on each startup
    If you choose this option, you'll need to decide how much space
    should be reserved for each system.

( ) Erase it, and replace it with Ubuntu
    Warning: This will delete all documents, programs, and other
    files on the disk.
</pre>

=== Other systems on this disk ===
(Appears if more than one other system detected on the chosen disk)

<pre>
It looks like the Seagate 18.2 GB hard disk has three other systems
on it already: "Mac OS", "Mac OS X", and "DebianPPC". What do you
want to do with them?

(*) Leave them there, and choose another disk for Ubuntu
    To choose another disk, click "Go Back".

( ) Put Ubuntu alongside, so you choose a system on each startup
    If you choose this option, you'll need to decide how much space
    should be reserved for each system.

( ) Erase them all, and replace them with Ubuntu
    Warning: This will delete all documents, programs, and other
    files on the disk.

( ) Erase just these ones, and replace them with Ubuntu:
    +-----------------------------+-+
    |                             |A|
    |                             |:|
    |                             |V|
    +-----------------------------+-+
</pre>

=== Partition the disk ===
(Appears if dual-/multiple-booting)

<pre>
Once Ubuntu is added to the disk "Seagate HD", there will be 4.8 GB left
for documents and other files you add later. How much of this space do
you want to allocate for each system?

      Ubuntu: [ 2.4]H GB =====V=====
  Windows 98: [ 2.4]H GB =====V=====
Leave unused: [   0]H GB V==========
       Total:   4.9   GB
</pre>
