{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Profile ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| My contact details:
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~partisanentity|PartisanEntity]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=192328|PartisanEntity]]</nowiki>
|}

=== My contribution to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Support & Community ====
** Ubuntu Forums Membership: Since 2006.
** Launchpad Membership and signed CoC: Since 2007.
** Ubuntu Forum Staff: I was a member of the forum moderation team for +/- 2-3 years and helped to regulate the smooth operation of the forums.
** I was a member of the Absolute Beginners Team on Ubuntu Forums helping new users with Ubuntu.
** I Frequently assist users throughout Ubuntu forums.

==== Development & Bug Reporting ====
* I have assisted in testing and bug reporting for the <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phatch]]</nowiki> project.
* Bug Reporting - I have filed several bug reports on Launchpad.

==== Local Community ====
* I have assisted several friends and relatives to make a switch to Ubuntu and continue to maintain their systems for them.
* On several occasions I have recommended open source software, including Ubuntu at my places of work, in situations where I think they constitute viable alternatives to proprietary solutions. 

==== Plans & Ideas for the Future ====
* I would like to continue being an active member of the Ubuntu family and community.
* My intention is continue spreading awareness about Ubuntu, and the Ubuntu eco-system, as a viable alternative platform.

=== Testimonials ===
* Comments and messages from other community members are welcomed!
