{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:35%;  margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"#ffce70 > '''Ubuntu Forums:'''
| 
| <#f4efa2 > <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=221279|PartyBoi2]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#ffce70 >'''Launchpad:'''
| 
| <#f4efa2 > <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~partyboi2|Karl.Mo]]</nowiki>
|-
| <#ffce70 > '''GPG Key:'''
| 
| <#f4efa2 > 5F264440
|-
| <#ffce70 > '''Email:'''
| 
| <#f4efa2 > partyboi2@yahoo.com.au
|-
| <#ffce70 > '''IRC:'''
| 
| <#f4efa2 > PartyBoi2 on network irc.freenode.net
|}
{{http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=62&pictureid=2246}}

=== About Me ===

My name is Karl, and I am a part time nerd, a kiwi (New Zealander) living in Melbourne Australia. I love a challenge and enjoy tinkering with computers. About 2007 I started to look for an alternative to windows I tried a few different linux flavours  till I found Ubuntu which had a very active community with friendly support. 
Most of what I have learned about Ubuntu has been from googling, experimenting  and being involved with helping others out in the forums. 
You can  normally find me on the Ubuntu forums and irc in #ubuntuforums-unanswered, #ubuntuforums-beginners and ##beginners-help
=== Involvement ===

Actively giving support in the Ubuntu Forum Community mainly in the Installation and Upgrades section on the Ubuntu forums as well as irc (##beginners-help)
I also became a member in 2008 of the Unanswered Posts Team tackling the 0 reply posts on the Ubuntu Forums. Also in 2008 I became a member of the Beginners Team.

=== Future Plans ===

I am keen to learn more about Debian packaging and how to fix bugs.
----
CategoryHomepage
