{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Elfy'''
** Discuss.
* '''Jackson Doak'''
** Some games are important, but one is enough.
* '''Dave'''
** One or two are fine.
* '''David Pires'''
** Drop games.
** Most people game with emulators, consoles and in the web.
* '''Frostsongr'''
** Just have the basics, like solitaire, minesweeper, chess, etc.
* '''Thomas Molloy'''
** Basics are nice to pass time during installation, but not really needed.
* '''Taras Bazyshyn'''
** Drop games.
** Gamers will use Steam.
* '''Dave'''
** Drop the games.
** Everybody knows how to install.
* '''PK'''
** Ship some games.
** Games make Xubuntu look friendly and less nerdy.
** Size isn't a problem.
* '''Lutz Andersohn'''
** We don't need games.
* '''Bruno Benitez'''
** Not installing games makes Xubuntu look more dry and less friendly.
** Good for passing time.
** Don't drop the games.
* '''Ince, Wilbur'''
** Games take space, but not installing them makes Xubuntu look cheap and flimsy.
** Allow a user to choose if he wants games installed during installation.
** Add launchers to install games on the menu.
* '''Peter Rauhut'''
** Games have a very small impact on ISO size.
** They are something familiar for new users and helps them connect and feel comfortable with Xubuntu and learn about it.
* '''Bruno Augusto Clemente de Assis'''
** We need to keep one or two games.
** People still play desktop games.
** Games are good for passing time.
* '''XbrandoX'''
** Non-developers look for games.
* '''A Blesius'''
** Some basic games are good, and helps Xubuntu not look boring.
* '''Elizabeth K. Joseph'''
** Agree with other pro-default-games comments.
* '''PK'''
** Games offer simple amusement for many.
* '''Toni Sissala'''
** Install 2-4 generic games, like minesweeper and solitaire.
** Add a launcher to Software Center to install more games, where they are well represented.
** Games are a good way to start the Linux adventure.
* '''Sean Davis'''
** Games makes Xubuntu feel more human-oriented.
** Users can install games if they want, but small games are supposed to be quick diversions.
