{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: none !important; margin-left: 0px !important; width: 100%;" style="border: none; padding: 0.75em; border-radius: 1em; " #eeeeee> ''' NOTE: ''' ''This is a copy of my wikipage as of March 2009 when I applied for the Ubuntu membership. Outdated information is striked out. <<BR>> Source: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PasiLallinaho?action=recall&rev=8|My wikipage, revision 8, 2009-03-01]]</nowiki>.''
|}

=== Who am I? ===

I'm Pasi Lallinaho, a geek from Helsinki, Finland. I'm the Xubuntu Marketing Lead, working with all things from websites and artwork to global TV advertising (not really, but would like). In addition to that, I'm also helping the Kubuntu and Ubuntu teams in some website and graphics related things.

I'm obsessed to open source, CSS, web standards, music, ...

=== My work ===

==== Before Ubuntu ====

I previously worked with the Amarok project for about two years. I started to help the project by giving end user help but later on joined Rokymotion, the promotion team. My work there included many little things to keep the projects promotion going on. I also made a new theme for the Amarok website, which is yet to be published.

==== Ubuntu ====

On September 2008 I joined the Xubuntu project to promote my own personal favorite flavor of Ubuntu. I worked on the new Xubuntu website from the start - it was made public parallel with Intrepid Ibex release. (See xubuntu.org) The next big project to be done is the artwork guidelines for Xubuntu and to migrate all existing artwork to comply with it. Also the work with artwork for Xubuntu Jaunty is beginning soon. One big part of my work for Xubuntu is working with and by the specification to grow the Xubuntu community.

==== Other ====

Apart from working with open source projects, I run my own IT services company in Finland named Alshain.

=== My goals ===

As I previously stated, my goal is to promote Xubuntu by various means. Also I'm interested in promoting open source in general. I'm also interested to make the complete Ubuntu community work even more productive and cooperative.

''Whatever I do, I do with full heart.''

=== Contact info ===

* '''IRC:''' knome @ irc.freenode.net
* --( '''E-mail:''' open@knome.fi )--
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~knome/
* --( '''Playground for open source things:''' http://emonk.fi/open/ )--

=== Testimonials of others ===

* knome is a dedicated individual who is working hard to make Xubuntu better. He is often in #xubuntu and #xubuntu-devel assisting others with solid knowledge. He is always considerate of others and willing to help. knome's work in Xubuntu artwork is being used in Jaunty 9.04. As Xubuntu Marketing Lead, his attempts to bring together the Ubuntu alternatives as a working discussion group are commendable. An outstanding individual and a pleasure to have on the team. --~charlie-tca
