{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Standard ==
The standard Ubuntu PATH for interactive usage, in most cases is:
<pre>
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/snap/bin"
</pre>
The above is preferred hardcoded `PATH` for kernel, libc, shells, and similar use cases.
For example, this is the built-in path that should be used by `/bin/sh`, if `PATH` is not already set in the environment.

=== Standard snap-less ===
If `snapd` is not installed on a classic system; container; chroot; the `PATH` can also be snap-less as typically `snapd` is responsible for appending `/snap/bin`:
<pre>
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin"
</pre>

== System managed non-interactive ==
System built-ins, daemons, system utilities, and upgrade scripts may use local-less `PATH` (optionally snap-less too):
<pre>
PATH="/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/snap/bin"
</pre>

This is to ensure that binaries in `/usr/local` do not hinder apt upgrades (including deb2snap conversions).

Examples of system-managed software: `initramfs-tools`, `dracut`, `finalrd`, `dpkg` maintainer script, `do-release-upgrade`, `subiquity`, `curtin`, `d-i`.

== No Games ==
The `games` path is deprecated and should be removed from `PATH`. For reference, it used to look like this:
<pre>
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin"
</pre>

== No Reordering ==
Reordering `PATH` components is '''not allowed''' - real location lead, symlinked locations follow; then `sbin` leads, and `bin` follows.

If sbin-merge is implemented, ensure that `/usr/bin` (real directory) is ahead of `/usr/sbin` (symlink). As of April 2025, there are no current plans to implement sbin-merge in Debian/Ubuntu.

== No ~/bin ==
Logged-in user's path should '''not''' be automatically mangled to inject `~/bin`, or `~/.local/bin` or similar variants of thereof.

== No PWD ==
Present working directory is '''not''' in `PATH`. Neither `::` nor `:.:` should be in `PATH`, both of these values mean present working directory.

== No changes with usr-merge ==
`/bin` and `sbin` will '''not''' be dropped from `PATH` in case of a `usr-merged` system. (Or vice vera `/usr/[s]bin` will not be dropped either).
