{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~patrickmwright
|-
| IRC
| patrickmw
|-
| Email
| patrick.wright@canonical.com
|}

=== Goals ===
My passion in software is testing infrastructure.  Tasks like automating deployments and installs, designing testing frameworks and automated reporting.  I get great satisfaction by taking the labor out of repetitive tasks allowing testers to put more energy and effort towards designing tests rather than running them manually. Elegant, low-overhead tools also entice developers to test as well!  I want to help make Ubuntu releases as stable as possible by creating tools and frameworks to add and edit tests with ease.  Its a vision of mine to have thousands of tests running and reporting on iterations of Ubuntu to catch (and fix) more regressions before they reach the community.

==== A short missive ====
My belief is that testing does '''not''' directly improve the quality of any product.  Meaning literally, you can not ''test'' quality into software, you ''build'' quality from the beginning.  But, continuous integration testing provides a heavy impact to get us there.  More testing, more often creates the feedback loop required to improve software.  Better testing practices hold us more accountable.
