{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Amaturer Radio is a worldwide organisation of technically skilled people.  Debian/Ubuntu should be their first-choice for computer-based HAM use.

Goal: employ the Ubuntu "just works" mantra with Debian-packaged pre-installability.

One application per task: Make a firm choice about the best application in each case, promote that as the preferred solution and focus bug fixing and QA around that one package.

Plug-and-play: by focusing on hardware that can be automatically enumerated (reliable USB ID).

Standardise HAM configuration schema: the user should only need to enter their callsign and position once.  All HAM applications should use the same configuration.

Frequency bands: extend the Central Regulatory Domain Agent, allowing licensed HAMs to broadcast at their allowed power settings.  (Regardless of power, the operator must be responsible and not cause interference).

Websdr equivalent: out-of-the-box open-source websdr equivalent that can be deployed directly (eg. juju).

Focus on real-world use-cases:

* a tutorial event must allow multiple operators to easily switch callsign identities as students swap around.
* Marine AIS (location beacon) decoding
* Automatically load list of repeaters based on geographic location

Primary hardware compatibility: RX-only:

* FUNcube Dongle Pro `04d8:fb56` `iManufacturer="Hanlincrest Ltd.         "` `iProduct="FUNcube Dongle V1.0  " (yes, exactly that many spaces)
* Softrock `16c0:05dc` (shared ID, identify properly from ''textual'' strings).  See http://code.google.com/p/visualkitchen/source/browse/trunk/hardware/vmix/firmware_w_presets/master/usbdrv/USB-IDs-for-free.txt?spec=svn50&r=50 manufacturer/Product
