{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''MOTU Application'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| PaulLiu
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paulliu]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| PaulLiu
|}

== Who I am ==
I work for Canonical as a Solution Engineer in OEM team. I'm an open source developer, focusing on LXDE and some replacement of non-free softwares. I become DD for several months.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===

I've used Ubuntu since Hardy. Mainly use Ubuntu on OEM machines. I also taking care of the packages I maintained and fixing any bugs that happened.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
* Ubuntu Karmic Remix

=== Areas of work ===

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
