{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Current Server Guide ===

The following are notes on the existing server guide:

==== ServerGuide Wiki Page ====

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerGuide

Update Release target to Gutsy Gibbon.

==== Chapter 1: Introduction ====

Comment on where to find HTML/PDF versions needs to be changed as
links go around in a loop.

==== Chapter 2: Installation ====

===== Preparing to Install =====
** Does Ubuntu server really still support '''powerpc'''? I don't see any powerpc images on the release testing site - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/gutsy/tribe-5/
** Under backing up, do we need the comments about multi-boot? Production servers are generally single OS systems.
  
==== Chapter 3: Package Management ====

** Do we need to mention the '''simple graphical interface which is easy to use by those new to Ubuntu.''' when we are installing a server?
** The software packages used by Ubuntu are the same across all of the Ubuntu products, so a package that is installed in '''Ubuntu''' can also be installed on a '''Ubuntu Server''' system.   

===== Introduction =====

** Ubuntu's package management system is the same system used by the Debian GNU/Linux distribution (not just 'derived from').

===== Apt-Get =====

** No comment

===== Configuration =====

** Shouldn't removing the requirement on having the CDROM/DVD repository be something that is done automatically during the install process?
** Example needs to be updated to reflect '''Gutsy''' details.

===== Extra Repositories =====

** Example needs to be updated to reflect '''Gutsy''' details.
** Some explaination should be added for:
*** gutsy-security
*** gutsy-updates
*** gutsy-backports
*** gutsy commertial

=== Chapter 4: Networking === 

** Why should I care about graphical configuration tools?

===== Ethernet =====

** What about an adding the '''ip''' command to the list of low level options?

====== Managing DNS Entries ======

** Another option are the tools for automatically updating the '''resolv.conf''' file. (Can't for the life of me remember what they are called right now, but there is a Ubuntu specification for porting software that plays with resolv.conf file to use the new system.)

====== Managing Hosts ======

** Something about how a server name need to be added to '''/etc/hosts''', otherwise apache2 will complain at startup (as an example).
** Remove comment about playing with '''/etc/nsswitch''' at your peril - is it really needed? Is it a useful comment?

===== TCP/IP =====

====== TCP/IP Configuration ======

** Good introduction
** Should '''interfaces''' and '''resolv.conf''' discussion be deleted/merged into previous section?

====== IP Routing ======

** Need example on how to view '''routing tables''' with '''route''' and '''ip route'''.

====== TCP and UDP ======

** No comment at this stage.

====== ICMP ======

** No comment at this stage.

====== Daemons ======

** Give an example of showing how to find out what ports are being listened on using '''netstat'''.

===== Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) =====

** Should title be changed to '''Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) Server'''?
** Configuration of:
*** IP-Address and Netmask for the local network
*** DNS server details (IP address) and local domain 
*** WINS server details
*** Client hostname
*** Default network gateway
*** Time server
*** Print server
** '''dhclient''' is installed by default.

====== Installation ======

** ... of DHCP Server
** Assign an IP address randomly, or from a pool?
** What about the configuration options for the options mentioned in the previous section?
*** Client hostname
*** Time server
*** Print server

====== References ======

** Need to fix this section.

===== OpenSSH Server =====

** The '''openssh-client''' package is installed by default.
** Installation can be done with '''apt-get install ssh'''.

====== Configuration ======

** '''ssh_config''' or '''sshd_config''' - There seems to be some confusion.
