{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Aim ==
When: May 14-15 2007 

Web: http://connectingup.cisa.asn.au

CISA runs a conference for people involved in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in the Not-for-profit and Community sector. The program emphasises the management and administration of ICT resources in these organisations.

See: PaulSchulz/ConnectingUp06 for last years report.

Linux Australia has sponsored a booth at the event.
 
== Program ==

See the website for program details.

== Opportunity ==

This was an ideal opportunity to promote Ubuntu and other related projects:

* Ubuntu
* Software Freedom Day - September 15, 2007
* Linux Australia

== Actions ==

* [Done] Register for confernce and book booth.
* [Done] Discuss at AustraliaTeam meeting (8 May 2007) 
* [Done] Sponsorship from Linux Australia sponsorship for booth/attendance.
* Make contact with
** Other FLOSS minded people who may be going, to let them know we'll be there.
** Local volunteers through LinuxSA
** Conference Speakers (or their offices)
* Booth
** Organise furniture.. card-table and monitor stand.
** Prepare display material.

== Brochure ==

Welcome to ConnectingUp07

Linux Australia would like to welcome delegates to ConnectingUp07 -
'We can do IT'.

We would like to think that Linux and associated Free and Open Source
software offers a solution to the problems that Not-for-profit
orgisations face daily.

Linux Australia is .... (sponsors speil)

Applications

Everything that a computer is used for todays office can be done with
Free and Open Source software.

Linux productivity software includes web browsers, email, word
processors, spreadsheets, printing and document handing, desktop
publishing, photo editing and storage, accounting and to help relax, a
wide selection of games.

The benefits of Free and Open Source software include:

- Written by developers in the community, for themselves and others,
  and shared with the community. Contributors come from all over the
  world and the contributions that they make go all around the world.

- Built and designed for interoperability, based on international standards.

- Continiously developed and improved, and massively peer
  reviewed. Decades of open development have established a base of
  software that is robust, well written and well maintained.

- Used and supported by the computer industry. The computer industry
  has recognised the success of Free and Open Source software, and
  is increasing its support as customer demand grows.  

- No built-in limitations, license restrictions or usage
  conditions. Use the software the way you want need.

- Help others. Be able to freely distribute any of the software that you
  use to others will also find it useful. 

Modern Linux is distributed in an easy to install CDRom, and can be
installed on individual computers, or distributed easily to an entire
network. It is even possible to run Linux from a CDRom itself, so that
is can be 'tried out' without interfering an existing installed
system. Such a disk can also be used to rescue data from a system that
otherwise won't boot.

== Observations ==

=== Other Suggestions ===

== Conclusions ==
