{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am from New Mexico, and have been environmentally friendly/conscious from childhood, when my grandmother gave me an "Ecology" sticker book, followed up with a subscription to Ranger Rick.

I have a degree in Computer Science from the University of New Mexico (1991) and 16 years of work experience at Nokia (in varying positions).  I have lived in Finland for 20ish years.

In 2010 I decided to finally try a long-time business idea -- simply to refurbish old computers, install Linux on them, and sell them cheaply to those in need of a good, reliable computer. Wanting to bolster my skills in the area I spent the summer of 2011 in Portland, Oregon as a full-time volunteer at <nowiki>[[http://www.freegeek.org|Free Geek]]</nowiki>. Slightly side-tracked, it took me til 6/2012 to register "Koneet Kiertoon" ('Cycled Computers, as a rough translation) as a secondary name for a local co-op. The following December I rented permanent space in downtown Tampere (pop. about 220k) and have been promoting Linux and open source since.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| FrozenZia
|-
| Email
| 
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://www.koneetkiertoon.fi|www.koneetkiertoon.fi]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~frozenzia|frozenzia]]</nowiki>
|}
=== Contributions ===

* OpenOffice advocate at workplace (Päivölä adult education center) 2008-2010.
* Converted PC lab to Ubuntu in Päivölä.
* Helped organize <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-fi.org/LTSP5_Ty%C3%B6paja_2010|LTSP Workshop]]</nowiki> in Päivölä (2010).
* Full-time volunteer <nowiki>[[http://www.freegeek.org|Free Geek]]</nowiki> (Portland) summer of 2011.
* I have been building and selling used computers installed with Ubuntu, Lubuntu and most recently Ubuntu MATE since roughly 1/2013.
* Sponsored Ubuntu Global Jam in 9/2014
* Currently about 50% of <nowiki>[[https://codeclubworld.org/|Code Club World]]</nowiki>'s 1st year's material translated into Finnish
* Significant update to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/QuickStartGuide/StartingTranslate|Ubuntu translation instructions]]</nowiki> to include screenshot of licensing dialog.

=== Future Goals ===

Hoping to continue selling refurbished, Linux-installed computers, "spreading the word" about Linux and open source in general.  My hope is to help create not only a supply of Linux computers, but also a demand for Linux-savvy tech people AND help in educating said tech people.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:elias-aarnio]]</nowiki>  I have been following Paul's activities and been in occasional personal contact for years. I admire his determination in what he has been doing with FLOSS software. His model of refurbishing old hardware is a very good way to broaden the user base of Ubuntu and its' derivatives. In his case there is an economically viable business model that also ensures that the less computer literate can get help from the same physical location they bought the PC from. It is important to notice that this fraction of consumers would probably already have started using GNU/Linux if they could have achieved it themselves with help of Internet community. They simply need the help by a real person in flesh. That's what I think Paul's shop is all about. 
