{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Background ==

I started using GNU/Linux with Slackware distribution about 4 years. After that I use Redhat with 2 years. And sticking with Debian in 2000. Currently, I'm using Debian testing to develop softwares and advocate Ubuntu to friends and families.

== About Me ==

I come from Taiwan R.O.C and born in 1979.

I got Bachelor's degree in Computer and Information Science at National Chiao-Tung University in 2001 and Master's degree in Computer Science and Information Engineering at National Chiao-Tung University in 2003.

== Skills ==

=== Programming ===

* C/C++
* Java
* Python
* Pike

=== Computer Science ===

* Quantum Computation
* Algorithms
* Complexity
* Cryptography

=== Writing Documentation ===

* latex
* SGML
* lilypond (contributor of Mutopia project)

=== Artwork ===

* inkscape (contributor of Openclipart library)
* gimp

== Future Goals for Ubuntu ==

* Become MOTU
* Make Ubuntu as free as possible

== Ubuntu Contributions ==

=== Package Maintaining ===

As a Debian developer, I fix the bugs or add features for Ubuntu by directly uploading packages to Debian. Here's the list of my packages.

https://launchpad.net/~paulliu/+packages

http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=paulliu

=== Free Software Projects ===

To replace non-free softwares, I write free replacements.

* <nowiki>[[https://gna.org/projects/unrar/|unrar-free]]</nowiki> project member
* <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/jlhafrontend/|jlha-utils]]</nowiki> project admin

== Other Contributions ==

Only habits, but they are all free software.

* <nowiki>[[http://rt.openfoundry.org/Foundry/Project/index.html?Queue=753|darnwdl]]</nowiki> project admin
* contribute to free games (AVGMaker, ninix-aya, macopix, ...)
* successfully advocate Ubuntu to > 5 friends

== Contact Information ==

* E-mail address: paulliu@debian.org
* Homepage: <nowiki>[[http://about.me/grandpaul|paulliu]]</nowiki>
