{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi,

I'm Paul, late 40s at the time of writing, have lived in the UK in Glasgow, London, Exeter, and in France in Toulouse, the Aveyron and Nièvre "départements", and am now close to Clermont-Ferrand.

Basically, I'm totally clueless about a computer or software, but I'm working hard to get to grips with them ! It's just an amateur thing as I don't go anywhere near a PC in my work as a printer. Well, not in the way most people mean that !

I tried first for a few years with ... damn, I forgot their name, but you can probably guess because there's a lot of them around, a bit like fast-food restaurant chains ... and about as good too !

Anyway, I surfed a lot and heard of Linux and felt I wanted to give it a try. Then after various different attempts I heard about Ubuntu.

I won't say it was love at first sight, but there was so much feeling about it and the community spirit, like the forum, was excellent ... so 2 years later I'm still with Ubuntu and very, very happy, especially when I can contribute.

As a "bilingual", I do my best with the translation into French (Weekly Letter, Full Circle & Ubuntu Docs) and also help in the French Forum, helping out newbies essentially or anyone else I feel I can help via my little experience.

That's the fun part of Ubuntu : the others !
