{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Paul Hummer, apply for upload rights for package Tahoe-LAFS.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Paul Hummer
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~rockstar
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/PaulHummer
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Paul. I like to write code. And I like to break code.  I worked a lot on Launchpad, but I'm currently working on Ubuntu One.

I'm all over the place with contributions.  If I enjoy projects, I'll often explore the developer culture by contributing patches, and if I like my experience, I'll continue working with the community.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I've wanted to get into packaging many times, but my brain doesn't like wikis, especially not once they have grown to the magnitude that the Ubuntu wiki has. I wanted to contribute to Tahoe, and they needed a packager, so I found myself a mentor (maco) and that's how I got here.

=== My involvement ===
I'd like to be involved more.  I think getting less friction in uploading Tahoe will be a good gateway to other things.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Uh, just Tahoe right now.  I'm working through getting daily builds working for Tahoe, so they can test the packages regularly with their buildbots.  It was being blocked by a bug in bzr-builder that didn't support quilt packages, but it seems that bug is either fixed, or close to being fixed now.

=== Areas of work ===
I've mostly been working with maco to get Tahoe uploaded.  At one point, I sought the help of dholbach, and he obliged, but I have to assume he's really busy.  :)

=== Things I could do better ===
Well, so most of my packaging experience in general has been python apps.  I'd like to learn the greater packaging story.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I'd like to explore getting node.js and it's libraries packaged into Ubuntu, but I'm going to have to learn a bunch more about packaging before I'm ready to take that on, methinks.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Well, I'm generally a "glass is probably slightly more than half full" kind of guy.  One thing I don't much care for is the "Choose Your Own Adventure" book that is the Ubuntu Wiki.  I often feel like it takes me a few hours just to figure out where I need to go on the wiki, and I can spend a lot of time reading things that aren't very relevant.

== Comments ==

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
