{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Aim ==
When: May 1-2 2006 

Web: http://connectingup.cisa.asn.au

The South Australian State Government runs a conference for people involved in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in the Not-for-profit and Community sector. The program emphasises the management and administration of ICT resources in these organisations.
 
== Program ==
The program of speakers included:

* Hon Jay Weatherill, SA Minister for Families and Communities – The SA Government’s role in ICT in the delivery of community services
* Nicola Thompson, General Manager, ICT Hub, London
* Joe Baker, Executive Director, Nonprofit Technology Network (NTEN http://www.nten.org ), US
* David Barnard, Executive Director, South African Non-Government Organisations Network (SANGONet) http://www.sangonet.org.za
* Dr Simon Davey, Managing Director, Omega Alpha Limited (http://www.omega-alpha.com), Managing Associate, preponderate network (http://www.preponderate.net).
* Amith Nagarajan, CEO, Aptify Corporation, US.

This was an ideal opportunty to promote Ubuntu and other related projects:

* Ubuntu
* Software Freedom Day - September
* Linux Australia

== Actions ==
* [Done] Register for confernce and book booth.
* [Done] Requested 320 CDROMs from ShipIT. (26 Mar)
** [Confirmed] Shipit CD's have been sent (29 Mar)
** [Arrived] Wahoo! (8 Apr)
* [Done] Discuss at AustraliaTeam meeting (4 Apr 2006) 
* [Done] Seeking sponsorship from Linux Australia sponsorship for booth/attendance.
** [Done] Sponsorship confirmed (6 Apr)
** [Done] Receive funds
** [Done] Pay for registration and booth
* '''Report to AustralianTeam meeting on 11 Apr 2006''' (AustraliaTeam/Meetings)
* [Done] Prepare an A4 promotional speil for conference handbook (was due two  weeks before).
* Make contact with
** Other FLOSS minded people who may be going, to let them know we'll be there.
** [Done] Local volunteers through LinuxSA
** [Not done] Conference Speakers (or their offices)
* Booth
** [Done] Organise furnature.. card-table and monitor stand.
** [Done] Prepare display material.

== Observations ==

* This is an annual conference, and I only thought of going quite late. It would be good to think about what can be done for future years, and start planning. eg. Contacting the organisers about getting a speaker from Ubuntu/Canonical or Lunux Australia and the LUG's

* It costs AU$250 to put something into the delegate package... not in the budget, maybe next year.

=== Other Suggestions ===
* Have a visitors book at the booth.
** Arrange for followups.
* Blog the event - particularly if it can be done live.
* Show how Free and Open Source software can save organisations real money. (Who in Adelaide had Ubuntu partner points?)
** Case studies.
** Examples of how Ubuntu can be used in an organisations ICT strategy.

== Conclusions ==
* Overall, the conference was well worth attending.

* There was quite a bit of the 'not-ready-yet' message coming from the podium on using FLOSS software in not-for-profit and NGO organisations. The event did have major sponsorship from Microsoft, so this was not completely unexpected.  

* Over half of the visitors to the booth were already using Open Office, and everyone went away with a Ubuntu 5.10 CD set, with instructions on how to install OpenOffice from the LiveCD. Over 100 CD set's were given away, with a conference attendance of 250 people.
