{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page contains notes on possible promotopn ideas for Dapper.

Some previous Ubuntu press releases and marketing information:
* TechPressTeam - Needs updating for Dapper.
* MarketingTeam

=== Local Launch Party Invite ===

On 1 May Ubuntu will be releasing their latest version of their 
GNU/Linux operating system, 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake).

The Ubuntu Australia Team would like to invite you to the local
launch party for this release. Come and hear about how Ubuntu and
Linux is being used to solve real problems for real people in your
local area.

=== Advertisement for Consumer Market ===
(eg. Weekend papers)

On 1 May Ubuntu will be releasing their latest version of their 
GNU/Linux operating system, 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake).

This release is the forth for Ubuntu, and can be used on Intel (32 and 64 bit)
and Mac (Intel and PowerPC) systems, and comes with versions for Education,
Servers, as well as two desktop varieties. All the software is freely available
with 3 years of security support and updates.

The system includes a fully functional office suite (Open Office)
along with all of the familar free Internet software available under 
Microsift Windows (FireFox,Thunderbird). 

There is also a LiveCD version which will allow you run the software on your
computer without having to install anything. It runs directly from the CDROM,
so you can try everything out first.. 

Available for download from www.ubuntu.com
or a local computer group near you.

Rock On!
