{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Who I am ==

I work on the Launchpad Code team.

== Contact Information ==

** `rockstar` on freenode
** https://launchpad.net/~rockstar
** Read http://theironlion.net

== Ubuntu work I've done recently ==

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/devweek0901/BzrAndLp
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/devweek0909/LP_CodeHosting
* Karmic testing and bug filing
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/399543
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/console-setup/+bug/399510
** https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-motd/+bug/400462
* Changes to http://summit.ubuntu.com for Ubuntu 10.04 UDS
* Working locally with rural area school districts to bring Edubuntu and open source to classrooms.

==== MOTU work ====

* Packaged Tahoe 1.6 for Lucid - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tahoe-lafs/+bug/516744
* Packaged Tahoe 1.7.1 for Maverick - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tahoe-lafs/+bug/609755

== Goals for the future ==

* Conduct an after school program to teach youth about Linux and open source.
* Become a MOTU
* Contribute to Edubuntu

== Endorsements ==

* Paul has been really instrumental in getting the summit system fixed up to make UDS a better experience for people attending. He's one of those behind-the-scene kind of you guys you never hear about but is always around to help. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jorge]]</nowiki> 
* Paul has made some significant contributions to the way Ubuntu developers will use bzr and Launchpad code hosting. He's always been super helpful when I've been trying to use bzr with packaging and would be a valuable asset as an Ubuntu Member. He is a low-key, behind-the-scenes guy but he's a future Ubuntu rockstar, IMO. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:laserjock]]</nowiki>

* Paul helped package Tahoe-LAFS for Ubuntu -- I'm a Tahoe-LAFS developer not an Ubuntu developer -- and was friendly and encouraging and made some good suggestions for how to improve our tools to make it easier to package future versions of Tahoe-LAFS for future versions of Ubuntu. He's currently listed as the contact person for Ubuntu on the Tahoe-LAFS packaging page: http://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/wiki/OSPackages . I'm looking forward to cooperating with him in the future. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:zooko]]</nowiki> 