{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== This page was aimed at some who had issues booting 5.10 ====
==== Should not apply where Ubuntu is version 6.06 or later ====
There are times when hotplug does strange things on first boot up in Ubuntu, I don't know the answer as to why this is. However I have found that this information _can_ be useful, it seems to work in most cases.

The method of solving it is a simple reinstall, but not the same as the initial one. :-)

The steps are:
Install the server version.
Build the rest of the machine.

This is a simple process.

To install the server version put the install CD in as before, and boot.
When the install pauses for the first time the text on the screen says something about typing the word server to do a server install.
At the boot prompt type server.

When the server install is complete you will have a login prompt in front of you.

Using the name and password you choose in the install log in.
The password you are requested is the first users password see note below*.

At the prompt type this:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

If you want to use kubuntu then type this:

sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop

If you have a low spec machine then type this:

sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop gdm

When you are finished this one more command and you can reboot to see the machine in all its glory.

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

sudo reboot

If you want to install all these go for it, to change from one to another run this command in a terminal:

sudo update-alternatives --all

Choose the settings you want.

If you have come to ubuntu from another distro have a look at RootSudo use it for a week and you will not look back.
The most important thing here is the following word: Enjoy.
