{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Contributions to the Community ==

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

 {*} Member of the Ubuntu Forum's Beginner's Team, where we take the time to walk new users through their new Linux Desktop or Laptop since 2007.

 {*} Restructured the Ubuntu Beginners Team into what it is today with the help of a few other senior members back in the summer of 2008. We worked through the growing pains, and now have a structure to handle a very large volume of members.

 {*} Council Member Emeritus of the Beginners Team

 {*} Past Head of the IRC UBT Focus Group. Our role is to moderate the channels under our control, and provide support in #ubuntu-beginners-help. 

 {*} Past head of the Development UBT Focus Group ( 2008 - 2010 ). We help new users begin to code. We also try to create code that will be useful to a more wide user base. Example projects that have come from this are an IRC Bot, Wiimote bindings for D, Perl and C++. I stepped down due to a lack of time in February 2010. 

 {*} Created the Education UBT Focus Group, now a flourishing team in the community. Our Focus Group is working very closely with the Ubuntu Learning team, and Ubuntu Classroom.

=== LoCo Involvement ===

 {*} LoCo Council Member

 {*} Ohio LoCo Team contact Emeritus. Currently working to get the Community to an active state by holding events, parties, and a healthy dose of local activism.

 {*} Founder of the North East branch of the Ohio LoCo, where we work to enhance the Ohio LoCo's footprint in the Cleveland+ Area. Currently a great success, and turning out to be one of the more active LoCos.

 {*} Helped represent the Ohio LoCo at Ohio Linux Fest 2009, or OLF. I talked with those who attended, as well as running the booth.

 {*} Active Ohio LoCo member, and coordinator of the 2009 October Bug Jam.

 {*} Part of the Mass LoCo team, although currently inactive, as I have been at school in Ohio. I plan to become more involved locally post College. 

 {*} Local activist, getting friends and family to try and keep using Ubuntu, through support.

 {*} Installed a set of two Linux servers, configured them to work with the Design and Technology center in my hometown's High School, controlling a domain of 14 Windows computers, loaded with Architecture software, as well as providing remote filesystem space through Samba. Then took a role as the System Administrator, and maintained them for 3 years.
