{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Information to include (in bugs/reports) ===

Please always report version numbers of the software you use, the version of Ubuntu you use, etc.

=== Getting PDA/handheld computer devices to work out-of-the-box with Ubuntu ===

We would like to get all existing, functional PDA (Personal Digital Assistant)/handheld software well-integrated and working in Ubuntu out of the box. For this to be possible, we need to identify which devices currently work without (or with very little) configuration with relevant synchronization software, and those that don't work at all. <nowiki>[[PDADeviceList]]</nowiki> should form a list of devices, sync software used and current status. From this list we can then choose which devices and software to target for improvement with the aim that it works out-of-the-box in future Ubuntu releases.

All existing PDA-related wiki entries will be reparented to this page so that we will have a single point of reference for PDA matters. We encourage would-be PDA-related wiki authors to parent their entries to this page.

The following criteria has been considered to define PDA Support for Breezy.

==== Synchronization of PIM data ====

All devices have PIM functionality that MUST sync data to the relevant software installed in the Ubuntu desktop and back. The system must be able to identify and resolve data conflicts between device and host machine when it happens. This is the most basic functionality that needs to run for out-of-the-box PDA support to happen in Ubuntu.

==== Installation of PDA software from Ubuntu desktop ====

The PDA sync software installed in the Ubuntu desktop should be able to install applications to the PDA device.

==== Sync online information (AvantGo, Mobipocket, etc.) ====

If possible, (depending on sofware available) the PDA should be able to sync to online information providers like AvantGo. 

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPDA]]</nowiki><<BR>><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategorySpec]]</nowiki>
