{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Application of Jaw Crusher is one of the most popular stone-crushing equipments in the world, Jaw Crusher is ideally suitable for primary and secondary crushing. The highest anti-pressure strength of crushed material is 320MPa. It is widely used in mining, metallurgy, construction, highway, railroad, and chemistry industries and etc. Many models are available according to your different fineness requirements.   Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST  
Advantage: provide reasonable product selection and design,scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements, strict production process,on time delivery  

The Crushing form of this series Jaw Crusher is driven-squeezing style. Its working principle is: Motor drives belt and belt pulley, makes moving jaw up and down through eccentric shaft. When the moving jaw is up, the angle between lining plate and moving jaw becomes large, and this will push moving jaw plate close to the fixed jaw plate. During this process, the material is crushed and ground, thus the crushing will be done. When the moving jaw is down, the angle between lining plate and moving jaw becomes small, the moving jaw plate will leave the fixed jaw plate on account of the effect of pulling bar and spring, and then the crushed material will be discharged from the lower opening of the crushing room. With the motor continuously rotating and the material periodically crushed and discharged by the crusher, the mass production can be realized. 

Web:
http://www.vipeakmill.com
http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
