{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Overview ===

Pecha Publisher aims to be a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pecha|pecha]]</nowiki> typesetting and desktop publishing tool. In one sense, we're starting from scratch:
* no legacy code base
* no open source siblings to provide insights and a baseline
* [AnticipatedTech all new technology]

But in another way, we've got the excellent lineage of !PechaMaker's community, complete with suggestions from its current developer as well as feature requests from its user base.

For a visual overview, be sure to check out the ScreenShots.

=== Project Links on LaunchPad ===

* Pecha Publisher project - https://launchpad.net/pecha-pub
* Trunk - https://code.launchpad.net/~pecha-pub-devs/pecha-pub/trunk
* Code browser - http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~pecha-pub-devs/pecha-pub/trunk/files
* Blueprints (feature planning) - https://blueprints.launchpad.net/pecha-pub
* Tickets - https://bugs.launchpad.net/pecha-pub

==== Documentation ====

* UserGuide
* !DeveloperGuide
** DevelopmentDependences
** ContributorGuide
** CodingStandard
* ProjectCredits

===== Design Documents =====

* PechaBasics
* AnticipatedTech
* ProposedFeatures
* Architecture
** [ComponentArchitecture Software Components] - how all the software pieces and parts connect to each other
** [UserInterfaceLayoutPlan User Interface/Layout Plan] - what it's going to look like, how one will use it
** [InformationArchitecture Information Architecture] - menus and their organization
* Specifications - feature development plans
** SpecTerminology - the terms used in the user interface, documentation, and code should be consistent, and this spec defines said terms
** SpecGettextBasedTranslations
** SpecFileFormat - includes directory layout definition
** SpecDocumnentMetadata - 
** SpecFileLocking - 
** SpecProjectBackup - how backups work for .ppf files
** SpecDocumnentBackup - how backups and undo work for changes in the individual files that comprise a project
** SpecImportExport
** SpecDataModel - database tables and relationships needed for all possible data and metadata for a PechaPublisher file
** SpecConfigurationData
** SpecSessionData
** SpecAnnotationData
** SpecLayoutData
** SpecSchemaMigration

===== Project Management Docs =====

* RoadMap (here's the plan, Stan)
* AreasOfExpertise (who's good at what; loosely mapped to "who's responsible for what")

==== More to Come ====

As content is added to this wiki, we will update this page with links and information. Stay tuned!
