{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Pedro Fragoso, apply for MOTU'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Pedro Fragoso
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ember/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PedroFragoso
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a 23 years student of System Administration and Computer Science in UAL Lisbon.

About my Linux profile, I started using Linux with Red Hat 6 but was Slackware that i really got into the opensource world and contribuing (GNOME for Slackware gware.org). I've used gentoo and archlinux along with Debian, but ended up using Ubuntu in Gutsy because of all it's community and good integration for the Gnome folks.

Along the way i've gained some knowledge as an user an as a programmer ( like Bash/C/Python/GTK/autofoo etc).

== My involvement ==

** Started using Ubuntu in Gutsy. 
** Started contributing in Hardy.
** Become Ubuntu Contributor in 2008-06-23

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
In Debian i currently maintain hamster-applet (which is part of gnome), brasero (pkg-gnome), and evolution-rss(pkg-evolution).

In Ubuntu i have like 320 uploads since Hardy which include Gnome updates, bugfixes, merges and even LPI changes

* brasero <nowiki>[[http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/main/b/brasero/brasero_2.26.0-0ubuntu1/changelog|changelog]]</nowiki>
* sound-juicer <nowiki>[[http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/universe/s/sound-juicer/sound-juicer_2.26.0-0ubuntu/changelog|changelog]]</nowiki>
* vinagre LPI <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vinagre/+bug/260550|260550]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
Mainly GNOME related stuffs.

Touching some ally packages and some pets packages in universe like irssi,sound-juicer etc.

=== Things I could do better ===
One i things i should really have another look is to clean more bugs.

I'm in the 5-a-day but every time i triage a bug i feel i can do more.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

Keep doing GNOME updates and packaging new stuff GNOME related.

Try to gain more experience and knowledge at GUI program to start contributing some code to Ubuntu and upstream.

Also try to be active cleaning the sponsoring queue and also helping other contributors.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Sebastien Bacher (seb128) ===
==== General feedback ====
Pedro is around for a while now and worked on quite some upgrades for debian and ubuntu, his upgrades are usually good to be uploaded without changes nowadays

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

No specific updates to list there right now but bugs are in launchpad

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Extra testing and not rushing into tasks would be better sometime though he's doing a better job on that now, could also contribute to motu transitions etc

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Pedro has put a lot of work into the Ubuntu Desktop. He worked on tens of dozens of updates (at least that's what it felt like to me) and I sponsored a lot of them. In the beginning Pedro ran into smaller issues and every now and then into coordination issues with the team. I'm happy to say that he has greatly improved there and I'd trust him to be a good MOTU now. I'm also happy that he stepped up to work on some universe packages too.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hamster-applet/+bug/337058
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sound-juicer/+bug/340084
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools/+bug/344359
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-themes/+bug/319089 - my fault :-)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tomboy/+bug/308669 - oversight, quickly fixed
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-pyrss2gen/+bug/268171
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dvdauthor/+bug/262485
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bitlbee/+bug/262288

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Maybe work some more with the MOTU team. Give sessions about being a Desktop Team contributor! :-)

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored a bunch of gnome releated package updates for Pedro in the past (both in bzr and as debdiffs). He did a good job with the updates and I think he will make a good motu.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* vte: LP: #344049
* brasero: LP: #343468
* gnome-terminal: LP: #343715
* gimp: LP: #331306
* (70 sponsored uploads in total)

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Sometimes a little bit more focus on details, I remember a forgoten "bzr add". But that is details, Pedro is doing a good job and understand packaging well.

=== Luke Yelavich (TheMuso) ===
==== General feedback ====
Pedro helped me update various GNOME accessibility related packages through intrepid and jaunty. I also sponsored a few universe uploads for other GNOME packages he worked on. Overall his work was consistant, and his changelog entries were clear as to the changes that were made.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Cannot pinpoint any at the moment, but one can look back through the at-spi and gnome-orca packages on Launchpad for some examples.
==== Areas of Improvement ====
Since I haven't sponsored any work for Pedro in a while, I can't really comment, however with some of the uploads I did sponsor, I felt he did rush things somewhat, however thats likely been resolved, going by the comments above.

=== Martin Pitt (pitti) ===
==== General feedback ====
Pedro has become a very active and appreciated member of the community desktop team, helping with packaging new GNOME releases. 

I have not worked on differently enough packages with him to be able to judge the extent of his packaging skills, but he knows the basic things well enough. He is active on the IRC channel, and should just ask if he encounters a new problem.

I would welcome him to become a MOTU.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I sponsored in the order of 10 GNOME packages for Pedro. I do not remember any serious problems with them, I could upload all of them by and large unchanged.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I have too little work experience with him to be able to say.

=== Emilio Pozuelo Monfort (pochu) ===
==== General feedback ====
I haven't sponsored many uploads for Pedro, but for those I've uploaded, most were fine and I could upload them directly, but one was problematic. He fixed it quickly and I believe he has learnt to test his changes since then (it was half a year ago).

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

==== Areas of Improvement ====
As long as Pedro throughly tests his changes now, he's all good to become a MOTU!

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
