{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Although aware of Linux's existence by 2000, my first actual exposure to using Linux was Red Hat (not sure which) in the fall of 2004 when taking a class on Java at uni. I didn't become an actual Linux user really, however, until July 2007 when I first started using Ubuntu 7.04. Since then I've used a mix of Ubuntu and MacOS with a little bit of Fedora (again for a class at uni). I have been an Ubuntu Member since 26 February 2010.

Despite having taken a couple programming classes at uni (C & Java), I'm not actually a programmer and not hugely technical. My actual degree is in English. I always say "if I had 6 months to sit down and review and focus on nothing else" I'd get back into programming, but as that's unlikely to happen for right now I'm mostly sticking with involvement in community and not directly technical bits of Ubuntu, although I have submitted a patch to Summit and intend to do more work on it in the future.

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Penelope Stowe
|-
| '''E-Mail'''
| pendulum@ubuntu.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| Pendulum
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~pendulum/
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://pendulumtech.wordpress.com
|}

=== Activities ===

==== Present ====

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Team|Ubuntu Accessibility Team]]</nowiki> Leader 

* Americas Regional Membership Board member

* Involved in organizing <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam|Ubuntu User Days]]</nowiki>

* Remotely participated in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-L|UDS Lucid]]</nowiki> and sponsored to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-M|UDS Maverick]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N|UDS Natty]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-P|UDS Precise]]</nowiki>. 

* Involved in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-women.org|Ubuntu Women]]</nowiki>

* Member of the Ubuntu Classroom Team

* Submitted a patch to <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/|Summit]]</nowiki>

==== Past ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-women.org|Ubuntu Women]]</nowiki> interviews for Full Circle Magazine 

* Advocacy contact and co-coordinator with <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/czajkowski|czajkowski]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NGO/Advocacy|Ubuntu NGO]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

* Increase awareness and activities of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Accessibility/Team|Ubuntu Accessibility Team]]</nowiki>
* Get involved with documentation for Ubuntu

=== Testimonials ===

==== Ubuntu Membership ====

* I have been working with Penelope on the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam|Ubuntu User Days]]</nowiki> project since UDS. She has proved to be an wonderful asset to the team, providing assistance in any way that she can. She has been extremely helpful to many members of the community and would make a great addition to the Ubuntu Community! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>  * I have known Penelope for a while and have been working on starting the AAC project with her. In addition to this, she has been active in the Ubuntu UK IRC channel, not just with transcribing the podcast. She is invariably kind, helpful, considerate and supportive in all her activities and will not hesitate to go out of her way to help wherever she can. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mgdm]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* I've known Pen for some time, but it wasn't till I asked Pen to join the #ubuntu-women channel we really got to work on projects together.  I saw her jump straight in and take part in topics and discussions. Not only did she actively take part remotely at UDS Lucid, but also voluntered herself to take on tasks.  She then went and jumped on board the new project of Ubuntu User Days and it was a great success. She is helpful and kind and is always there to help anyone should they need it. She is part of the Ubuntu community. <nowiki>[[czajkowski]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
* Penelope works hard and successfully on a wide variety of Ubuntu projects. She is kind and considerate of others and is a great asset to the Ubuntu community. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alanbell]]</nowiki>  * I taught a session in the first Ubuntu User Day, which Penelope was instrumental in organizing and running.  I was impressed by the amount of effort and dedication she put into make the event such a success, both for participants and those of us teaching.  I look forward to working with her on future User Days, and any other project. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * Having Penelope as an Ubuntu Woman Project team member with her insight, dedication, willingness to help, is a great asset.  Penelope would be a great addition to any team that she chooses to become a member of. Penelope is one of those folks who attract people to participate in projects with her willingness not only learn something new, but to also pass on that knowledge, with a firmness in her convictions she is determined and dedicated to those projects as well.  +1 for membership from me and I look forward to working with Penelope on future projects. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:akgraner]]</nowiki>  * When I wanted help with voice overs for a screencast, Penelope was among the first to volunteer to help me with it. Even though we couldn't get it done, I loved the enthusiasm she had to help me out. Her enthusiasm for free software and the Ubuntu Community is commendable along with her amazing patience. Later on, I worked with her for Ubuntu User Days, I came to know more about her and would certainly recommend her for Ubuntu Membership  -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nigelbabu]]</nowiki> 
==== Americas RMB ====

* Penelope already reads the membership applications submitted to the Americas RMB regularly and knows very well what the requirements are for membership.  She has a very good track record of predicting membership meeting outcomes, which shows she is on the same wavelength as the rest of the board and would fit well in it. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:maco.m]]</nowiki> 
* Penelope would make an excellent candidate for the Americans RMB as she already attends most of the membership boards anyway and follows closely how the possible candidates do.  I would recommend her for this position.  <nowiki>[[czajkowski]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>

* I would have no hesitation recommending Penelope for the Americas RMB she understands exactly what makes a good member and would provide constructive suggestions for those not yet ready. She has my full support. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alanbell]]</nowiki> 
----
CategoryHomepage
