{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Install-Fest June 2, 2007 ===

'''You may have heard about Ubuntu.  You wanted to try it but didn't know where to begin.  Are you sick of computer viruses, malware, spyware, and constant hardware upgrades?  Come to our install-fest and let our volunteers help you become a part of this amazing computing phenomenon by installing Ubuntu Linux on your PC.'''

'''Ubuntu is a community developed Linux-based operating system that is perfect for laptops, desktops, or servers. When you install Ubuntu, you have access to thousands of open source software packages which cost you nothing! Whether you want to surf the web, listen to music, watch a movie, or create a presentation, you can do it with Ubuntu! Whether it is for home or office, Ubuntu can do it all.'''

'''This free service is provide by Philadelphia's local community of Ubuntu users and NTR's gracious use of their warehouse.  There is a limited amount of space so make sure to register at meetlinux.com for one of our sessions!'''
----
'''Where:''' Nonprofit Technology Resources, 1524 Brandywine Street, Philadelphia PA 19130
----
'''When:''' June 2, 2007, three 2 hr sessions: 10am -12pm; 12:30pm-2:30pm; 3pm-5pm
----
'''How:''' Go to '''<nowiki>[[http://www.meetlinux.com/register.php|Meetlinux.com]]</nowiki>''' for attendee registration.
----
=== LoCo Team Members and Volunteers Please Sign Up Here ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Team Member Name'''
| '''Sessions'''
| '''Comments'''
|-
| Kevin Valentine
| 1,2,3
| I'll bring my LTSP demo system and perhaps the media changer
|-
| Jim Fisher
| 1,2
| G3 macs for $45 and PC's from $89 available from NTR
|-
| Andrew Keyes
| 1,2,3
| 
|-
| Ian Richmond
| 1,2,3
| 
|-
| Alex Launi
| 1,2,3
| Bringing the local repo mirror to save NTR some bandwidth
|-
| Gabby Eisenhower
| 1,2,3
| Working the door and checking people in.
|}
