{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu GNU/Linux Install-Fest Disclaimer ==

This Ubuntu installation festival (install-fest) is an opportunity to learn how to install the Ubuntu Linux operation system under the guidance of the Ubuntu LoCo team members (members of the "US Pennsylvania Ubuntu Local Community Team", hereinafter referred to as Installers).

* Attempting to install and configure the GNU/Linux operating system to work on your computer may result in the loss of some or all of the data stored on your hard drive.  '''You are advised to back up all important data before attempting to install the GNU/Linux operating system on your computer.'''  The Installer will not be held responsible for any data loss or corruption.

* At the install-fest, you are responsible for the security of your property.  '''The Installer will not be held responsible for any lost or stolen items.'''

* '''You should not bring a computer which is critical to your studies or your work.  We will not take responsibility for any mistakes made or problems created during the install-fest.'''

* The installation and configuration of the GNU/Linux operating system may give the user access to software that potentially violates software patent laws.  The Installer will not be held responsible for any/all legal issues that may arise from use use of such software.

* You hereby forever release the Installers from any legal liability they might have arising from the attempt to install and/or configure the GNU/Linux operating system on your computer.
