{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Harrisburg, York, and Lancaster Area SubTeam ==

=== Subteam Contact ===
Subteam Leader is Bret Fledderjohn - freelancer317 on the freenode IRC. Email is freelancer317 AT gmail DOT com

=== Projects ===
Jim Capp with Anteil Inc. is running a computer donation program for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America in Harrisburg.<<BR>>
He has been installing Ubuntu on the machines, and we have been providing cds for additional installs. <<BR>>

=== Events ===
===== CPOSC 2010 =====
The Pennsylvania LoCo Team is going to be at  CPOSC again this year! I have sent out a couple of emails on the email list, but have been so far behind due to work and school, that I haven’t had a chance to post it as I would have liked to.   The Central PA Open Source Conference is back again (3rd Annual) at Harrisburg University. Below are the details, there are still tickets available, and once again, I am asking for help (both financial and feet on the ground). It’s going to cost us $100, and I think this is a really valuable venue for promoting Ubuntu and the Pennsylvania LoCo Team. Last year we really had fun and met a lot of very friendly people.

I’ve posted a PayPal button on <nowiki>[[http://breadthofreality.blogspot.com|my blog]]</nowiki> to help raise the money. I already have a  $25 dollar donation , and any other amounts would be appreciate (no amount too small, every dollar helps).  I (Bret) will cover whatever we can’t raise.

A LoCo Team conference pack has arrived, so we'll have some nice loot to distribute. And I hope to see quite a few teammates there. INCLUDING Brian Stempin and Chris Teodorski who will be giving talks (congratulations guys!). Last year Lyz presented and made us all very proud, so this continues to show how our members are on the cutting edge of open source in Pennsylvania!

Anyone wanting to get together afterward or before, shoot me an email at freelancer317 AT gmail Dot com Last year we got together at ABC (Appalachian Brewing Company a local brewpub/restaurant) afterwards and had a great time (and pretty good beer for the beer drinkers).

I really look forward to meeting as many of you as possible!
<<BR>>

=== Previous Events ===
====== Social/Planning Meeting ======
08/08/09 1pm <<BR>>
Cornerstone Coffee House <<BR>>
3315 Market St. <<BR>>
Camp Hill, PA 17011 <<BR>>

<nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-080809SCPA]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

Joint Project with the Central Pennsylvania LUG - May 19th there was an Installfest/New User Meeting at ITT Tech in Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania

Here are the Details:

What: InstallFest / New User Meeting

When: Sat May 19th, 10am - 6pm

Where: ITT Tech<<BR>>
Room Theory #3<<BR>>
5020 Louise Drive<<BR>>
Mechanicsburg, PA 17055

What to bring: Laptop or PC (you can bring a PC, but you’ll need to
have all your cables with you!)

Wired and wireless Internet will be available.

<nowiki>[[http://www.cplug.net/wiki/Installfest_2007|CPLUG's Announcement]]</nowiki>
