{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MythTV Seminar and Installations by Matt Mossholder ==

{*} '''Date''': Saturday, June 21st 2008

{*} '''Time''': 1PM-5PM

{*} '''Location''': <nowiki>[[http://www.theatsgroup.com/|The ATS Group]]</nowiki>, 1200 Atwater Drive, Suite 170, Malvern, PA 19355

** <nowiki>[[http://www.theatsgroup.com/contact.htm|Directions]]</nowiki>
** Our site contact is Jonathan Simpson. The doors should be unlocked, but if not you can give him a call to be let in: ''484-467-9965''

{*} '''Refreshments''': Snacks, coffee, and soda will be provided

{*} '''Details''': Join us for a hands on seminar, where we will build and configure a MythTV Home Theater PC (HTPC) based upon Ubuntu and Mythbuntu.

The topics to be covered include:
* MythTV Overview
** Master Backend
** Slave Backends
** Frontends
** Alternatives
* Component selection
** Video Capture devices
** Processor
** Hard Drives
** Remote Controls
** Video Cards (nVidia, ATI, Intel, VIA)
* Design Decisions
** Combined Frontend/Backend, or separate components?
** Disk based or Diskless?
** Wired or Wireless?
** Standard Definition or High Definition?
** RAID?

After we have completed the initial session, we will then go hands on, walk through the process of building a MythTV system. To keep things manageable, only the first 10 people to register are eligible to participate in building systems, but all are welcome to attend.

'''If you would like to attend or assist''', please contact Matt Mossholder via matt AT mossholder DOT com and Elizabeth Bevilacqua via lyz AT ubuntu DOT com, or enter yourself in one of the tables below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Builder Registration
|-
| Name
| Email
|-
| Drew Lehman
| dlehman _At_ 4bts.com
|-
| Troy Sorzano
| tsorzano -aT- expertta.com
|-
| Kevin Kulp
| Lyz has address
|-
| James Bowman
| jim <at> drexel <.> edu
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Non-Builder Atendees
|-
| Name
| Email
|-
| Stephen Nicols
| Lyz has address
|-
| George McNeal
| Lyz has address
|-
| Daniel Friedman
| Lyz has address
|-
| Nick Cosmo
| Drew has address
|-
| Amul Shah
| Lyz had address
|-
| Daniel Friedman
| dfried =At= comcast.net
|-
| Charlie Yocum
| Lyz has address
|-
| Peter Thomas
| Lyz has address
|}

'''UPDATE:''' The two presentations from the seminar are located here:

http://www.mossholder.com/MythTV_101.odp

and

http://www.mossholder.com/MythTV_Build_Seminar.odp
