{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Philly / Southeastern Team LAN Party Info & Signup Page ==

February 16, 2008: 2PM - whenever

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Pleia2|Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>'s House:

94 Woodland Ave<<BR>>
Schwenksville, PA 19473

<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=94+Woodland+Ave,+Schwenksville,+PA+19473,+USA|Google Map]]</nowiki>

=== Attendees ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Attendee'''
| '''Body Count'''<<BR>>(as in attendees, wait for the FPSs for the other kind!)
|-
| Elizabeth Bevilacqua
| 1
|-
| Brian Stempin
| 1
|-
| Mike Edwards
| 1
|-
| Brent Saner
| 1
|-
| Randy Gold
| 1
|-
| Teddy d'Bear
| 1
|-
| John Kirk
| 1
|-
| Karen Israel
| 1
|-
| Matthew Rosewarne
| 1
|-
| Bryan Quigley
| 1
|-
| Michael Bevilacqua
| 1
|}

=== Supply List ===

You don't actually have to bring anything aside from computer supplies (including ethernet cord), we'll be ordering pizza. But if you want to bring snacks, soda, beer, etc - sign up:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Attendee'''
| '''Items'''
|-
| Brian Stempin
| Possibly beer
|-
| Brent Saner
| Whiskey, some chairs
|-
| Randy Gold
| Soda,Water,Popcorn
|-
| Teddy d'Bear
| Teddy Bear Treats
|}
=== Game Suggestions ===
Visit <nowiki>[[http://www.happypenguin.org/|The Linux Game Tome]]</nowiki> if you are short on ideas.
==== FPS ====
* <nowiki>[[http://armagetronad.net/|Armagetron]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://urbanterror.net/|Urban Terror]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://openarena.ws/?|OpenArena]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.sauerbraten.org/|Sauerbraten/Cube 2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.warsow.net/|Warsow]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.alientrap.org/nexuiz/|Nexuiz]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.alienarena.org/|Alien Arena]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://tremulous.net/|Tremulous]]</nowiki> (FPS/Strategy combined)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.worldofpadman.com/|World of Padman]]</nowiki>

==== RTS/Board Games ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.boswars.org/|Bos Wars]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.wesnoth.org/|Battle for Wesnoth]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pio.sourceforge.net/|Pioneers]]</nowiki>
* Conquest (no url found; should be in repositories)

=== Questions ===

1. Q. What sort of server(s) will we have; which hardware specs? (I have a couple extra boxes lying around that we can use if they would be needed.) -bts, 31.01.2008 2324EST 

A1. I have a couple 700mhz machines (probably 128-256M ram, it's been a while...), one running Ubuntu and one Debian that can be used as game servers. If others have games that require more power than that they're welcome to bring them. -<nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>, 01.02.2008 0746EST

A2.  I have a machine that I use as a server running Xen.  I could set up a few images and run all of the game servers from the same box.  In order to do this, I would need to know the game list by 8FEB2008. -bstempi 01.02.2008 0940EST

2. Q. Will we be doing any installs? Should I burn some *buntu discs? -bts, 31.01.2008 2324EST 

A1. Doubtful. We can do issue debugging if someone has a problem with something and wants some help, but I think we want to avoid full install sessions unless there is specific interest. -<nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>, 01.02.2008 0746EST

3.  Any size limitations for PC's being carted along to the LAN?  I would plan to bring my full PC, but if space is an issue I can bring a laptop instead. -James Stewart, 12.2.2008 2023EST

A1. There will be room for several full PCs, so feel free to bring your whole setup. -<nowiki>[[Pleia2|Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>, 13.2.2008 0809EST
