{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

''''' We're an approved team so this page is not kept up to date! It is kept as reference for ourselves and other teams looking for approval application examples :) '''''

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - June 22^nd^ 2007
* '''Team Contact''' - Bret Fledderjohn <freelancer317@gmail.com>
* '''Membership''' - 54 as of 11th June 2007
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-us-pa on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-pennsylvania on Freenode
* '''Forum''' - <nowiki>[[http://pennsylvania.ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki>
* '''Website''' - <nowiki>[[http://www.meetlinux.com]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

 {*} '''''Events across Pennsylvania'''''
** Active Event Locations
*** Philadelphia
*** Harrisburg/York/Lancaster
*** Susquehanna County
** Target Areas for future development
*** Lehigh Valley
*** Pittsburgh
*** Erie
*** Scranton Wilkes-Barre
*** State College
*** Williamsport

 {*} '''''Free (as in freedom) BBQ'''''
** A barbecue with free food for people! Less technical and more social. Will have flyers and cds but the primary goal of this will just be to schmooze and hopefully some of the events we've had will come and join the team.

 {*} '''''Free Software Day Extravaganza Saturday, September 15, 2007'''''
** PACS (Philly / Southeastern Team)
*** Establish speaker for Main Presentation on FOSS
*** Assist all special interest groups with demonstrating FOSS software specific to their SIG
*** <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/PA/Phila_Area_Computer_Society]]</nowiki>
** Pacs Linux (Philly / Southeastern Team)
*** Provide demonstration support of Ubuntu, both PC and PPC (And even Windows via      the OpenCD)
*** <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/PA/pacslinux]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=470859|Initial forum thread for philly FSD event]]</nowiki>
** Put together events across the state
*** All posted on the website calendar, supported by local LUGs whenever possible, and publicized through the Media

 {*} '''''Mt. Airy Learning Tree'''''
** Setup downstairs classroom with an LTSP server
** Setup a PC that can act as a server for mass imaging
** Work with Wynne to build contacts with schools for Ubuntu installations
** Teach classes through MALT on Ubuntu installation / configuration

 {*} '''''Nonprofit Technology Resources'''''
** Continue work with the Linux laptop project.  Possibly branch out to installing Ubuntu on higher end desktops.
** Provide a Ubuntu installation option at all of NTR's workshops

 {*} '''''Open Borders Project'''''
** Setup ESL classrooms with LTSP so they can learn OO on Ubuntu

 {*} '''''Girls Inc'''''
** Provide follow-up support at either MALT or NTR

 {*} '''''Media Action Team Plan'''''
** Develop a media action team
** Develop a media action plan
** Develop a complete media contact list for the state
*** Newspapers across the state
*** Television stations
*** Radio stations
*** Local Internet sights
*** Library contact lists

 {*} '''''Afterschool Edubuntu Labs Program'''''
*** Solicit Computer Donations
*** Put together Computer labs at churches and community centers for "at risk" kids by economically challenged demographic areas 
 {*} '''''Boy/Girl Scouts Computer Merit Badge Counseling'''''
*** Register in local councils as computer merit badge counselor(s)
*** Teach scouts the required computer skills using Ubuntu

=== Experience ===

List here acivities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

 {*} '''''20070428: Ubuntu LoCo PA Team Meeting (Philly)'''''
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=414341|Forum Thread discussing Organizational Meeting 20070428]]</nowiki> (including photos!)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PennsylvaniaTeam/Philly/MeetingMinutes|Minutes from Meeting]]</nowiki>
 {*} '''''20070517: Ubuntu Release Party, Montrose, Susquehanna County'''''
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=413229|Forum Thread Discussing Event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://gbztechnology.com/dgurp/feistyfawnimpress.odp|Slides from Presentation Given]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://flickr.com/search/?q=dgurp|Event Photos]]</nowiki>
 {*} '''''20070519: Philadelphia Area Computer Society (PACS) Install-Fest Promo'''''
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=449039|Forum Thread discussing event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/pacs/|Photos from Joe Terranova and Christina Eater]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://meetlinux.com/images/20070519_pacs/|Photos from Elizabeth Bevilacqua]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/2007/05/22/pacs-presentation-pa-loco-team/|Joe Terranova Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://jedijf.blogspot.com/2007/05/pacs-meeting-success.html|Jim Fisher Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://princessleia2.livejournal.com/333193.html|Elizabeth Bevilacqua Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
 {*} '''''20070519: Central PA LUG Installfest/New user Meeting'''''
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=420619|Forum Thread Announcing Event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=449911|Forum Thread Announcing Success!]]</nowiki>
 {*} '''''20070602: Ubuntu Install-Fest at Nonprofit Technology Resources (NTR)'''''
*** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=429143|Forum Thread Discussion Event Plans and "Action Items"]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=462693|Forum Thread Discussing Success!]]</nowiki>
** Mailinglist threads:
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-May/000024.html|Action Items]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-May/000032.html|Install-fest saturday -- plans?]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-June/000064.html|Install-Fest at NTR - success!]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://jedijf.blogspot.com/2007/06/amazing-installfest.html|Jim Fisher Blog Entry]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://joeterranova.net/photos/PhillyJuneInstallfest/|Joe Terranova's photos]]</nowiki>
 {*} '''''20070609: Dual-Boot PC Donation to Girls Inc'''''
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=465276|Forum Thread Discussing Event]]</nowiki>
** Several Mailinglist threads:
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-May/000010.html|Dual boot setup fro Girls, Inc. computers]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-May/000016.html|Girls Inc date shifted to June 9th]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-June/000068.html|Event: Girls Inc]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-June/000089.html|Girls Inc splashimage]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-June/000098.html|Girls Inc disk images]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.joeterranova.net/photos/girls_inc/|Photos from Joe Terranova]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://meetlinux.com/images/20070609_girlsinc/|Photos from Kevin Valentine]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://princessleia2.livejournal.com/336325.html|Elizabeth Bevilacqua Blog Entry]]</nowiki> (+photos)
** <nowiki>[[http://phillychix.org/meetings/060907.php|PhillyChix.org page about the event]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-pa/2007-June/000141.html|"Thank You" letter from Girls Inc]]</nowiki>
