{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== DSL Linux Resources ===

These laptops and desktops come 'as is'.  There is NO and will NOT be any support from NTR.

Please look to the GNU/Linux community for support.

NTR has graciously allowed the local GNU/Linux community to install a Linux operating system on these devices so that the community has a chance to experience this innovative operating system, and to show how it can be utilized on devices which may be considered as 'low resource' machines.

=== What is GNU/Linux? ===

Linux is a free Unix-type operating system originally created by Linus Torvalds with the assistance of developers around the world. Developed under the GNU General Public License , the source code for Linux is freely available to everyone. <<BR>>
When you get a distribution of GNU/Linux, you also get the freedom to study, copy, change, and redistribute it – that's what makes it truly free software. <<BR>>

=== What Software does it have? ===

Word Processor - AbiWord <<BR>>
Spreadsheet - Gnumeric <<BR>>
Internet - Firefox, Dillo <<BR>>
and many more !! <<BR>><<BR>>
All of which are compatible with software by other manufacturers. <<BR>>

== I NEED HELP ==

=== DSL Linux Help ===

* http://damnsmalllinux.org/
* http://damnsmalllinux.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page

=== Local Linux HELP ===

* http://www.meetlinux.com/
* http://www.phillylinux.org/

== Welcome and have fun !! ==
