{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Philly / Southeast REGION Geeknic 2009 ==
 

=== Date : Sunday April 19, 2009 ===

=== Time : 1:00 pm - 6:00 pm ===

=== Location : Betzwood Park ===

West Norriton, PA

=== Map ===
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=40.109639,+-75.420469&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=48.909425,114.257812&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=16&iwloc=addr| Map ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.geocities.com/runfasttracks/vfpark.html | Directions]]</nowiki>

=== Public Transportation Info ===
<nowiki>[[http://airs1.septa.org/bin/query.exe/en? | SEPTA Planner]]</nowiki>

=== What is a 'Geeknic' ? ===
A picnic for Geeks!

Our geeknic.org announcement here: <nowiki>[[http://geeknic.org/?p=16|http://geeknic.org/?p=16]]</nowiki>

This is not restricted to just Ubuntu folks. Anyone calling themselves a geek is welcome to attend. Sign up below to bring something along.

This event is taking place at Betzwood Park, easily accessible from rt 422. There are trails for hiking if people choose to, and there are grills and tables that we'll be using for the core picnic. There is also water nearby, anyone have a boat? :)

Minors are welcome, but are encouraged to bring a Parent or Guardian to accompany them throughout the event.

=== Signup ===

Thinking of coming? Sign up here, or drop a note to lyz@ubuntu.com to let us know, who/if anyone else is coming with you, and what you're bringing for our picnic potluck :)

Not sure what to bring? We'd like to have: Salads, desserts, rolls for hamburgers, hotdogs & rolls, plates, utensils

Please do not bring alcoholic beverages, they are not permitted at the park.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Who'''
| '''Plus?'''
| '''What'''
|-
| Elizabeth Krumbach
| 
| cups, 12 hamburgers, charcoal
|-
| Jonathan Simpson
| 2 kids
| 20 hamburgers, cookies
|-
| Robin
| 
| hotdogs
|-
| David A. Harding
| 
| Baked Mac & Cheese, utensils
|-
| Jim Fisher (in abstentia)
| 
| Hamburger/Hot Dog Rolls  & Oreo Cake
|-
| Connor Imes
| 
| plates, chips and salsa
|-
| Randy Gold
| 
| Soda, Water and Jim's stuff
|-
| Teddy d'Bear
| 
| My way cute self and teddy bear treats
|-
| Sam
| wife, 2 kids
| desserts
|-
| Temple ACM (contact Brian Stempin)
| 5 total
| cupcakes, devilled eggs (more to come), brownies, utensils, misc munchies
|-
| Joel
| 
| an assortment of vegetables
|-
| Russ
| 
| misc munchies
|-
| Andrew Keyes
| 
| ketchup, mustard, mayo
|-
| Matt Mossholder
| 4 kids, 1 adult
| potato salad and hot dogs
|-
| Danita
| sister
| napkins, soda
|-
| Benjamin
| 
| hotdogs, possibly bratwurst
|-
| Bryan Quigley
| 
| brownies
|-
| Andrew
| 
| Potatoe chips apparently
|-
| Joe Terranova
| Christina
| More brownies, whatever I see in a walk through Wegmans
|-
| Alex Launi
| 
| Macaroni salad
|}
