{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu GNU/Linux Install-Fest Waiver ==
'''Please don't print or use this yet!!!  It is still being modified and reviewed'''

By signing this waiver between you and the group holding the installfest (members of the '''US Pennsylvania Ubuntu Local Community Team''', hereinafter referred to as Installers), you give up certain legal rights. Therefore, you should read the agreement carefully. If you have any questions about the legal effect of this agreement, you should consult an attorney and not any of the Installers. Please be aware that you may not participate in the installfest event unless you have signed this agreement. By signing this waiver, you acknowledge the following:

 0. That Installers do not promise that the work done on your computer equipment will be successful. An Installer will help you attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the GNU/Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment. However, because of possible defects in computer software or computer hardware, including improperly configured computer hardware, not every attempt is successful.

 0. That the attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the GNU/Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment has inherent dangers that no amount of care, caution, instruction, or expertise can eliminate.

 0. That any attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the GNU/Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment, especially including any attempt to partition or re-partition your computer's hard drive, may result in the loss of some or all of the data stored on that hard drive. That you are hereby advised that you should back up all important data before the attempt to install, configure or otherwise get the GNU/Linux operating system to work on your computer equipment.

 0. That an installfest is an inherently chaotic event at which many computer components, peripherals and systems are present; therefore, you are responsible for the security of your property.

 0. You hereby forever release the Installers from any legal liability they might have arising from the attempt to install, configure, or otherwise get the GNU/Linux operating system to run on your computer equipment. That this waiver includes, but is not limited to, any losses caused by the negligence of any Installer who attempts to install, configure or otherwise get the GNU/Linux operating system to work on your computer. 

By signing below, you agree that you understand the terms above:

I _______________________________ acknowledge that I am participating in the Ubuntu GNU/Linux Install Festival entirely at my own risk. I assume responsibility for the integrity of the data on my computer system, have backed up all important data, and I will hold the volunteer helpers blameless for any damage to my computer system, to my data, or any other damages or liability that may result through my participation in this event. I further agree to be responsible for any licensing fees, shareware registrations, or other licensing requirements that may apply to the software I will receive. The purpose of this event is to distribute software packages that are Open Source, legally distributable with no charge to the user.

Every reasonable effort will be made to ensure that my system operates correctly before and after the installation, but I recognize that, because the software installed at this event is licensed free of charge, the copyright holder(s) and volunteer helpers and/or other parties provide this material "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of this software, and the accuracy of its associated documentation, is with me. Should this software or its associated documentation prove defective, I assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair, or correction.

Signature: __________________________________  Date: _____________
