{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Mythbuntu Installfest/Jam ==

{*} '''Date''': Saturday, October 3, 2009

{*} '''Time''': 1-5PM

 {*} Location:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.rhd.org|Resources for Human Development (RHD)]]</nowiki>, 4700 Wissahickon Ave., Philadelphia, PA 19144
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntupennsylvania.org/download/DirectionsToRHDCentralOffice.pdf|Site-Specific Directions (pdf)]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.alexion.com/rhd-directions|Aerial View w/ notes]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=4700+Wissahickon+Ave,+Philadelphia,+PA+19144&sll=40.232292,-75.639189&sspn=0.004636,0.013797&ie=UTF8&ll=40.026431,-75.161419&spn=0.0186,0.055189&z=14&iwloc=addr|Google Map]]</nowiki>
 {*} Call Lyz @ 610-952-7370 if you have trouble finding it

 {*} Please arrive before 2PM if you need help installing MythTV as installation can take awhile.

{*} '''Refreshments''': Pizza, snacks, coffee, and soda will be provided

{*} '''Details''': As a follow-up to our <nowiki>[[PennsylvaniaTeam-EventsTeam-PhillySFD2009|Software Freedom Day event at PACS]]</nowiki> where David Harding presented on MythTV, this event is being hosted so you can get help with your Mythbuntu machine - or even build one!

 At the event there will be myth demos with a variety of input sources, building of mythbuntu boxes using jaunty (9.04) and karmic (9.10) beta, and debugging of existing myth configurations (your myth box's remote stopped working? bring it out!). In addition to Myth stuff, if you have other Ubuntu-related issues please feel free to bring your laptops/desktops. We'll also be doing some general Ubuntu work, bug squashing, documentation work, there will be something for everyone!

{*} Can't make it to the actual event? Participate remotely in the <nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[USTeams-Events-WikiDocDay2009|WikiDocDay]]</nowiki>!

=== What hardware should I have for Myth? ===

You '''must''' bring a computer, a supported video capture card, a keyboard, a mouse, and a monitor, plus any necessary cords.  

Although not required, we can help you set up an infrared receiver and remote control, an infrared transmitter (blaster), a Linux-compatible TV-out graphics card, or a sound card.  Feel free to bring any hardware you own even if you don't know whether it's Linux-compatible.  (But we suggest you don't buy expensive new hardware without ensuring it's Linux-compatible.)

{*} '''<nowiki>[[http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Video_capture_card#Capture_Card_Matrix|Supported Video Cards List]]</nowiki>'''

Please send hardware questions to the <nowiki>[[http://mythtv.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mythtv-users|MythTV Users]]</nowiki> mailing list.  Please send questions about the Philly Myth Jam to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-pa|our mailing list]]</nowiki>.

=== Event Sign-up ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Who'''
| '''Email'''
| '''What'''
| '''Hardware?'''
|-
| Ms. Example
| example at gmail dot com
| Myth, Doc Day
| Yes, tower-style computer w/ Hauppauge card to install Myth on
|-
| <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki>
| lyz at ubuntu dot com
| Doc Day, Bugs
| No
|-
| Nick Atzert
| tlkg.me at gmail dot com
| 
| tower computer, no tuner, wifi card
|-
| Ryan
| ryanfauth at gmail dot com
| 
| antec case + intel board, hauppauge card, remote not working
|-
| Stephen Nichols
| chinnodog at lonesheep dot net
| 
| No
|}

* EMAIL required for verification of attendance.

=== Volunteer Sign-up ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Who'''
| '''Expertise'''
|-
| Art Alexion
| Site host
|-
| <nowiki>[[lyz|Elizabeth Krumbach]]</nowiki>
| Doc Day, Bugs
|-
| Matt Mossholder
| Myth
|-
| David A. Harding
| Myth
|-
| <nowiki>[[rhpot1991|John Baab]]</nowiki>
| Mythbuntu
|}
