{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Mt Airy Learning Tree Computer Volunteer Group LTSP Project ==
=== Team Members (please add your name) ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kejava|Kevin Valentine]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jedijf|Jim Fisher]]</nowiki> Contact # (636) 2-JEDI-JF (253-3453)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~randyg|Randy Gold]]</nowiki>

=== Project Overview ===

# To establish a fully functional Linux Terminal Server 'Classroom' style working DEMO
# Train the MALT Computer Volunteer Group how to operate and administer the LTSP.
# Conduct Monthly meetings on the LAST WEDNESDAY of EVERY MONTH.
# Take on 'Other Projects' as requested by the Volunteer Group.

=== Location and Information ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.mtairylearningtree.org/|Mt. Airy Learning Tree Website ]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

New Home:
6757 Greene St
Philadelphia, PA 19119

<nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?q=6757+Greene+St,+Philadelphia,+PA|Map to NEW location ]]</nowiki> <<BR>>

http://sp4.thischurch.org/

=== Next Meeting ===
'''Date:''' June 25, 2008 <<BR>>
'''Time:''' 7pm to 9pm <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' ''Coop Project (School District of Phila. / Weavers Way)'' <<BR>>

Current Project Status: <<BR>>

1. Demonstrate the various working models for the project.<<BR>>
2. Pick one or more variations to proceed with.<<BR>>
3. Install as needed to the 6 laptops<<BR>>
4. Discuss Training Plan.<<BR>>

=== Past Meetings ===
'''Date:''' August 8, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' ''Install Ubuntu and Intro to LTSP'' <<BR>>

The volunteers were walked through the Ubuntu installation process.  Halfway through an LTSP demonstration was provided.

'''Date:''' August 29, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' ''Exploring Ubuntu Linux via Thin Clients'' <<BR>>

Allow them to explore freely from 7:15 to 8:30 and take questions from 8:30 to 9:00.

'''Date:''' September 26, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' ''Complete YOUR own task'' <<BR>>

The volunteers will EACH pick a task that they currently perform with another OS and complete
the same task with Ubuntu.  Examples include presentations, drawing, graphics, instant messaging, photo and audio editing.

'''Date:''' October 24, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' ''Finding HELP for Ubuntu Issues'' <<BR>>

The numerous ways to find help for Ubuntu will be explored and utilized by participants.  

'''Date:''' November 3, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' Mini-Installfest <<BR>>

The Build-a-Computer Workshop students would like us to instruct/oversee their installation of a dual boot system featuring Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon.

'''Date:''' November 28, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' IRC <<BR>>

The MALT participants will be shown how to utilize the various IRC clients available in Ubuntu.  Channels that offer HELP and ASSISTANCE will be featured.

'''Date:''' December 19, 2007 <<BR>>
'''Topic:''' Begin Coop Project (Weavers Way/School District of Philadelphia) <<BR>>

1. Install  DSL to Compact Flash for use with CF to IDE adapter.<<BR>>
2. Test this installation on two of the laptops.<<BR>>
3. Verify that the spreadsheet works well with Gnumeric application.<<BR>>
4. If 1-3 are good, purchase 6 CF cards and adapters from Microcenter
and eBay, respectively.<<BR>>
5. Install to rest of laptops at next meeting with MALT CVG classroom on 1/30/2008.<<BR>>
