{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MythTV Seminar and Installations by Matt Mossholder ==

{*} '''Date''': Saturday, September 22nd 2007

{*} '''Time''': Noon-5PM

{*} '''Location''': <nowiki>[[http://www.theatsgroup.com/|The ATS Group]]</nowiki>, 1200 Atwater Drive, Suite 170, Malvern, PA 19355

** <nowiki>[[http://www.theatsgroup.com/contact.htm|Directions]]</nowiki>
** Our site contact is Jonathan Simpson. The doors should be unlocked, but if not you can give him a call to be let in: ''phone number removed following event''

{*} '''Refreshments''': Snacks, coffee, and soda will be provided

{*} '''Details''': Join us for a hands on seminar, where we will build and configure a MythTV Home Theater PC (HTPC) based upon Ubuntu and Mythbuntu.

The topics to be covered include:
* MythTV Overview
** Master Backend
** Slave Backends
** Frontends
** Alternatives
* Component selection
** Video Capture devices
** Processor
** Hard Drives
** Remote Controls
** Video Cards (nVidia, ATI, Intel, VIA)
* Design Decisions
** Combined Frontend/Backend, or separate components?
** Disk based or Diskless?
** Wired or Wireless?
** Standard Definition or High Definition?
** RAID?

After we have completed the initial session, we will then go hands on, walk through the process of building a MythTV system. To keep things manageable, only the first 10 people to register are eligible to participate in building systems, but all are welcome to attend.

'''If you would like to attend or assist''', please contact Matt Mossholder via matt AT mossholder DOT com, or enter yourself in one of the tables below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Builder Registration
|-
| Name
| Email
|-
| Jeff Bade
| jbade85 AT gmail DOT com
|-
| K.S. Bhaskar
| bhaskar at bhaskars dot com
|-
| Danita Fries
| nita AT digitalsylph dOt com
|-
| David Reese
| dreeseonon AT comcast d0t net>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Non-Builder Atendees
|-
| Name
| Email
|-
| Doug Snell
| dougsnell at comcast DOT net
|-
| Andrew Oswald
| andrew.oswald aT gmail dOt com
|-
| Venkat Bhamidipati
| venkat.bhamidipati@gmail.com
|-
| Amul Shah
| tuskentower At gMail Dot coM
|-
| Troy Sorzano
| tsorzano At rippletech DoT com
|-
| JP Vossen
| jp{at}jpsdomain{dot}org
|-
| Kevin Valentine
| kevin dot valentine at gmail dot com
|-
| Michael Buce
| jedimike at spamex.com
|}

* Suggested equipment for builders:
** PC, 512MB memory, 500Mhz min
** Capture card (if analog capture, increase PC speed to ~700Mhz min)
** Remote control
** Hard Disk (the larger the better)
** Keyboard
** Mouse
** Network interface
** Monitor

These are the presentations for the Seminar:
* MythTV 101 <nowiki>[[http://www.mossholder.com/MythTV_101.odp]]</nowiki>
* MythTV Build Seminar <nowiki>[[http://www.mossholder.com/MythTV_Build_Seminar]]</nowiki>
