{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
== South Central PA Social/Planning Meeting ==
Date: 08/08/09 <<BR>>
Time: 1:00pm(EDT) <<BR>>
Where: Cornerstone Coffee House - Camp Hill, PA <<BR>>
Coordinator: Bret Fledderjohn  <<BR>>
email: freelancer317 AT verizon DOT net  <<BR>>

=== The first of many ===
This is the first of regular meetings to get the group more organized in the South Central Pennsylvania area.
Have a cup of coffee with other members, talk, network, and let us plan some exciting events!
This is open to everyone (I made this a coffee location instead of a pub so that underage or alcohol opposed folk won't be left out),
so let's have a good one. <<BR>>
<<BR>>
This will be a very informal start to let everyone get to know one another.  Below is a very loose agenda, and if anyone has anything to add, please do so!<<BR>>
<<BR>>
If you are coming please list your name below.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
I hope to see you there!<<BR>>
<<BR>>
=== Agenda ===

* Meet and Greet <<BR>>
* Software Freedom Day <<BR>>
* CPOSC <<BR>>
* Millersville U. ("Remix the Future" university theme events) <<BR>>
* Elizabethtown U. <<BR>>
* HACC <<BR>>
* Brain Storming <<BR>>

==== Attendees ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name / IRC Nick
| Email (in case of changes)
|-
| Bret Fledderjohn - freelancer317
| freelancer317 AT verizon DOT net
|-
| Bryan Behrenshausen - semioticrobotic
| behrenshausen AT gmail DOT com
|}
