{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== DSL Frugal Install ==

-Download boot floppy image and CD .iso.  Burn these as described elsewhere. You may not need the floppy, I did.
 
-boot onto floppy/CD and enter<<BR>><<BR>>
>dsl 2<<BR>><<BR>>
at prompt to boot into text mode.  <<BR>>

-run cfdisk and prepare partitions.  I used:<<BR>>
- /dev/hda1 - 128M for swap (set type to 82!)<<BR>>
- /dev/hda2 - 75M for image, set as bootable<<BR>>
- /dev/hda3 - rest of drive for /home, mydsl, and backup/restore.<<BR>>

-write partitions and exit cfdisk.<<BR>>

-Prepare partitions:<<BR>>

>mke2fs /dev/hda2<<BR>><<BR>>
>mke2fs /dev/hda3<<BR>><<BR>>
>mkswap /dev/hda1<<BR>><<BR>>
>swapon /dev/hda1<<BR>><<BR>>

-reboot with floppy/CD into level 5 (just let it boot)<<BR>>

-right-click on desktop and select APPS>TOOLS>FRUGAL INSTALL>FRUGAL GRUB INSTALL<<BR>><<BR>>
at image partition, enter >hda2(or the appropriate)<<BR>><<BR>>
at install from, enter> l (that's L for Live CD)<<BR>><<BR>>
at format question, enter >y<<BR>><<BR>>

-when install completes, remove floppy/CD and reboot. Select one of the grub menu items.<<BR>><<BR>>

- Hopefully, now we're successfully running off our HD install.  <<BR>><<BR>>

-Now, we'll edit the grub menu.  Open a terminal window:<<BR>>
>sudo su<<BR>><<BR>>
>mount /mnt/hda2<<BR>><<BR>>
>nano /mnt/hda2/boot/grub/menu.lst <<BR>><<BR>> 
Comment out the undesired three line sets.  <<BR>>

I edited the middle line here as follows (your partitions may be different than mine):<<BR>>
>make sure that opt=hda3 home=hda3 mydsl=hda3<<BR>><<BR>>
>now add dsl in front of mydsl=hda3<<BR>><<BR>>
the entire line looks like this:<<BR>><<BR>>

kernel /boot/linux24 root=/dev/hda2 quiet vga=normal noacpi noapm noscsi frugal dma  home=hda3 opt=hda3 host=DSL1 dsl mydsl=hda3<<BR>><<BR>>

Note that the extensions don't seem to re-install without the dsl in front of mydsl=hda3.<<BR>>

-save, exit and reboot. <<BR>><<BR>> 

-Hopefully, we successfully rebooted. <<BR>> <<BR>>

-Now we'll create the folder for optional myDSL extensions.  These will NOT automatically install, but will be options on the myDSL (right-click) menu.
Open a terminal window.
>sudo /mount/hda3<<BR>><<BR>>
>sudo mkdir /mnt/hda3/optional<<BR>><<BR>>
>sudo chown dsl /mnt/hda3/optional<<BR>><<BR>>
Close the window. <<BR>> 

-Now to install extensions.  This is what works for me, there may be better ways.  I install each to /tmp.  Then if I want it to be optional (not installed, but available), I move it to /mnt/hda3/optional.  If I want it to install automatically, I move it to /mnt/hda3.  I do this manually after mounting hda3 first. <<BR>> 

- Hope this helps. enjoy!WOW!!!
