{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rpereira|rpereira]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''rpereira''' (''freenode'')
|-
| '''Email''':
| rpereira at server gmail.com
|-
| '''Homepage'''
| http://blog.rpereira.org
|-
| '''Wiki'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Pereira
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| rpereira at server gmail.com
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zürich|Zürich]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</nowiki>
|}

== About Me ==

Hi, I'm a System Administrator at Google Switzerland GmbH (Zurich) (moved a couple months ago from Brazil to Switzerland). Some months ago I was a SysAdmin on Google Brazil Ltda and one year ago a University Professor (I have a Master Degree in Computer Science) at Belo Horizonte - MG - Brazil. My disciplines were: Operating Systems, Algorithms, Mobile Computing and Distributed Systems.

I use GNU/Linux since 1998 and now my distribution is Ubuntu Hardy. I'm actually a member of Free Software Foundation and create Ubuntu/Debian packages for utilization inside Google Inc.

I coordinate a project to create telecenters in a lower class neighborhood in Brazil. The first telecenter is on a neighborhood called ''Bairro das Indústrias'' in Belo Horizonte (capital of Minas Gerais state on Brazil) and uses Edubuntu.

I organized an Ubuntu Day on the University taught joint with LoCo Team. This Ubuntu Day was: Some lectures from LoCo team, a install fest and CD/DVD distribution with 80-100 students participation.

'''''I'm already an Ubuntu member in Brazil, but would like to be a present member in EMEA now that I moved to Zurich :).'''''

More info on my publications <nowiki>[[http://buscatextual.cnpq.br/buscatextual/visualizacv.jsp?id=K4762689D7|curriculum]]</nowiki> (pt-BR).

== Why am I an Ubuntero? ==
I've already contributed with Ubuntu:
* some wiki pages (Portuguese and English):
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/ToshibaSatelliteM105|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-br.org/LucentWinmodem/Dapper|Lucent WinModem HowTo]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-br.org/ThinClientHowto|LTSP HowTo]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SyncEvolution|SyncEvolution]]</nowiki> (en) and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-br.org/SyncEvolution|SyncEvolution]]</nowiki> (pt-BR)
* tutoring new users on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-br|Ubuntu-BR]]</nowiki> (Brazilian e-mail list) and <nowiki>[[http://listas.ubuntubrasil.org/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-mg|Ubuntu-MG]]</nowiki> (my state e-mail list)
* requested to install Ubuntu/Kubuntu for computer related courses on my University (now 5 of 7 classes only uses Ubuntu) (when I was a university professor)
* evangelist for Ubuntu every one of my 150 students each semester :-) (when I was a university professor)
* contributed with some bugs:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~rpereira/+reportedbugs|reported]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~rpereira/+subscribedbugs|subscribed]]</nowiki>
* packaged <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/strongswan/4.1.9-0ubuntu1|strongswan]]</nowiki> for Hardy
* packaging StrongSwan 4.2.10 for Jaunty
* help on bug triage <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gnome-volume-manager/+bugs|gnome-volume-manager]]</nowiki> and some itens on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bugs|linux-source-2.6.17]]</nowiki> (mainly on tifm module)
* Mentor application on Google Summer of Code for Ubuntu (before joining Google) for two projects: 
* and some few <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/people/rpereira/+translations|translations]]</nowiki>

=== What do I want to do in Ubuntu? ===

* Become a Ubuntu Member (Done)
* Become a Ubuntu Member in Europe :)
* Become a MOTU Developer
* Become a Core Developer
* Work in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-server|Ubuntu Server Team]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials ===

==== Mario Meyer ====

"I can testify that Pereira has helped a lot in conferences and events. He stood with us on the stands, helped new users, debugged stuff on the stand, distributed media and lots more. He has done also a good job taking Ubuntu to the academic sphere of his job, an attitude that helps disseminating Ubuntu among a important critical mass that is being formed in the Brazilian university. Thus, I would recommend him being approved for membership for his strong advocating and helping." -- MarioMeyer

----
CategoryHomepage
