{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Persian Translation ==

=== About the Team ===

'''Ubuntu Persian Translation (UPT)''' team is a group of translators, which like to translate Ubuntu into Persian.  If you are interested, follow on to see how you can help us.

Please note that we are ''only'' a translation team.  Many people involved in Persian translation projects don't live in Iran, or don't have enough spare time to attend local meetings, help end-users, etc.  Please just focus on translation issues in this team.

Fortunately, ubuntu-ir, the Ubuntu Iranian Local Community team has been set up, and their website is <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ir/|ubuntu.ir]]</nowiki>.  Please help the Iranian Local Team to attract end-users, set up local events, etc.  Find more information at IranianTeam page.

* We are going to translate Ubuntu distributions.  You can find more info here: https://launchpad.net/rosetta
* We don't want to translate Gnome or Mozilla packages for now, as they won't be accepted upstream.  So please just focus on non-Gnome and non-Mozilla packages.
* Here are the lists of packages on Persian locale on which we want to do the translation:
** '''Yakkety''': https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+lang/fa

=== How to Contact Us ===

* '''UPT Mailing List''': https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-fas
** Archives: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-l10n-fas

* '''Ubuntu-IR IRC channel on freenode''': irc://irc.freenode.net/#ubuntu-ir

* '''Persian IRC channel on freenode''': irc://irc.freenode.net/##persian

=== Team SubPages ===

* <nowiki>[[TeamRules]]</nowiki>: Proposed team rules and policies.
* <nowiki>[[Glossary]]</nowiki>: Proposed translation glossary.
* <nowiki>[[Packages]]</nowiki>: A package translation maintenance approach.

=== How to do Translation ===

* Please first read TeamRules carefully.
* Then join the Contributors team at https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-l10n-fa-contributors/
* Start the translation at https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+lang/fa

=== TODO ===

* Creating a '''general glossary''', based on translation of other FOSS projects:
** Gnome: http://l10n-status.gnome.org/gnome-2.16/fa/index.html
** KDE: http://l10n.kde.org/team-infos.php?teamcode=fa
** Mozilla: http://lxr.mozilla.org/l10n/source/fa/

* Create a list of high priority packages, to prioritize finishing their translations

----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
