{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''This is a draft.  If you have any suggestion and/or objection please discuss it at team's mailing list first.'''

PersianTranslationTeam

=== Team Rules ===

If you want to help this team, please follow the following basic rules:

==== Name of the Language ====

The native name of the language is '''فارسی''' ''/fâr-sii/'' (not ''پارسی'' /pâr-sii/)

The English name of the language is '''Persian''' (not ''Parsi'', not ''Farsi'').

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iranian_Constitution#Chapter_II_.5BArticle_15_to_18.5D:__Official_Language.2C_Script.2C_Calendar.2C_.26_Flag_of_Country|Iranian Constitution, Article 15]]</nowiki> (English Wikipedia)

* <nowiki>[[http://fa.wikisource.org/wiki/%D9%82%D8%A7%D9%86%D9%88%D9%86_%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%A7%D8%B3%DB%8C_%D8%AC%D9%85%D9%87%D9%88%D8%B1%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D8%B3%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%DB%8C%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%86#.D8.A7.D8.B5.D9.84_.DB.B1.DB.B5|Iranian Constitution, Article 15]]</nowiki> (Persian Wikisource)

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes

==== Keyboard Layout ====

You probably need to get the '''Iranian Standard''' keyboard layout, so you can type Persian characters correctly and easily.

* http://www.farsiweb.ir/wiki/Standard_Persian_keyboard

==== Script Guideline ====

'''Academy of Persian Language and Literature''' is a body presiding over the use of the Persian language in Iran and other Persian speaking countries.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.persianacademy.ir/fa/das.aspx|Persian Script Guideline (دستور خطّ فارسى)]]</nowiki> (Persian)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.persianacademy.ir/fa/wordspdf.aspx|Persian Academy Glossary (واژه‌های مصوّب)]]</nowiki> (Persian)
** You can buy the printed version from their bookstore on ''3rd avenue, Bokharest St., Tehran''.

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academy_of_Persian_Language_and_Literature

==== Zero-Width Non-Joiner ====

Also known as ''Nim fāseleh'', ''Fāseleh-ye majāzi'', ''Fāseleh-ye sefr'', ''Pseudo-space''.

It's wrong to use ''SPACE'' in the middle of a word to break the joining.  You should use '''ZWNJ''' in this cases.

* You can type this character by pressing:
** Windows:
*** '''Shift+B''' (On Iranian standard keyboard layout)
*** (FIXME: How to type ZWNJ on Microsoft keyboard layout?)
** Linux: '''Shift+Space''' or '''Shift+B'''

Examples:

* Correct form with ZWNJ: می‌خواهم
* Incorrect (with space): می خواهم
* Incorrect (joined)    : میخواهم

Find out more on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-width_non-joiner and http://www.laits.utexas.edu/rfpit/persianword/zwnj.htm

==== Glossary ====

Please use <nowiki>[[..-Glossary]]</nowiki>.  You can use <nowiki>[[http://farsilookup.com/e2p/?lang=fa|farsilookup.com]]</nowiki> for other works that do not exist in the Glossaries, but Please don't forget to add it to the glossary.
