{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Summary ===
Since 2007 I have been (and am the current) administrative editor for:

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.dyndns.info|Ubuntuguide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntuguide.info|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntudoctorsguild.org|Ubuntu Doctors Guild]]</nowiki>

(with the help of the excellent contributions by the users who add them). 

I wrote the (K)Ubuntu installation instructions on the DaviCal and Moodle websites, and contributed extensively to the wikis of Drupal and Mediawiki regarding (K)Ubuntu installation. I contribute extensively to the Ubuntu Community Documentation and have written approximately 50 articles there, often copying text from Kubuntuguide and Ubuntuguide (which I had previously written on those sites).  

My launchpad account is at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~perspectoff|Launchpad: Perspectoff]]</nowiki>.

I am a regular participant on both Kubuntu Forums and Ubuntu Forums. (Kubuntuguide is the top ranked site at Kubuntu Forums).

=== Details ===
I am currently interested in distributed networks ("cloud computing") using Debian/Ubuntu/Kubuntu, especially using the Logical Volume Manager, RAID, and datacenter management tools that are useful for small and medium size businesses.

I am an advocate for open-source (GPL-licensed) software solutions in health care, as a basis for a United States national health care system. I have served on a national standards committee regarding Health Information Technology in the US. I created and installed a (K)Ubuntu-derived <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/ubuntu-med/|Ubuntu-Med]]</nowiki> system. I write wikis for EMRs, especially for Debian/(K)Ubuntu installations. 

=== Background ===
I originally wrote software and software documentation for a large aerospace project and then for several military projects.

I was a UNIX and VMS user in the 1980s and networked two large organizations during the network protocol (TCP/IP) standardization period of the late 80s. I then made a detour to MS Windows for 10 years. Recently I have used Debian/(K)ubuntu over the past 4 years, on a network of triple boot systems (which includes multiple Windows-based boxes).

My home is wired using LinuxMCE (Media Center Edition) 7.10 running on Kubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy), X10 controllers, surveillance cameras and motion detectors, and distributed multimedia.

My medium-large organization (which is healthcare-related) uses Ubuntu servers with Kolab for groupware and WebDAV-enabled storage, Drupal for collaborative web content, MediaWiki as a wiki, and WorldVistA as an electronic medical record system. We have also used DAViCal as a group calendar server, with Mozilla Thunderbird/Lightning and Sunbird as clients. I have a medical degree and advanced medical certifications, as well as several other advanced degrees. I regularly collaborate with state and national governmental agencies (in the US) regarding health information technology.

I also regularly contribute to Wikipedia, especially on specialized software topics, including electronic medical records.

Most of my philosophy in life comes from <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntudoctorsguild.org/public/index.php/Buckaroo_Banzai_quotes|Buckaroo Banzai]]</nowiki>.
----
CategoryHomepage
