{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Prepping for a demo consists of two steps. First, install a customized image, second do any post-processing required. This page is laid out accordingly.

== Installing Customized Images ==

=== Sevile Row ===

<pre>
phablet-flash ubuntu-system --channel devel-customized --no-backup
</pre>

To install the proposed image, which usually leads daily by 1-5 days
<pre>
phablet-flash ubuntu-system --channel devel-proposed-customized --no-backup
</pre>

=== Adding Fake Contacts ===
<pre>
phablet-demo-setup
</pre>

This will also include sample Pictures and Conversations.  To only include contacts:
<pre>
phablet-demo-setup --disable-fake-messages --disable-fake-pictures
</pre>

=== Fixing the Timezone ===
<pre>
phablet-config timezone <timezone>
</pre>

=== Installing an unsigned image ===

To install an unsigned recovery image, a custom version of the recovery image must be installed.  This recovery image skips the signature verification, and SHOULD NOT BE USED FOR DAILY USERS.  It is only to be used for testing an unreleased recovery image.

Download the recovery images and ubuntu_command from here:

http://people.canonical.com/~cwayne/touch/custom-recovery/

To install the recovery: 
<pre>
adb reboot bootloader
fastboot flash recovery /path/to/downloaded/recovery.img
fastboot reboot
</pre>

Now to install the customization (make sure that you have the ubuntu_command from the above link!):
<pre>
adb push custom.tar.xz /cache/recovery
adb push /path/to/ubuntu_command /cache/recovery
adb reboot recovery
</pre>
