{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Welome to peter.ahlgren's place on wiki.ubuntu.com!
-------

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~peter.ahlgren|peter.ahlgren]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| 62497826
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=228510|imagecko]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| fr33r1d3 on freenode
|-
| '''Email''':
| <nowiki>[[mailto:ahlgren1234@gmail.com|ahlgren1234@gmail.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://peterahlgren.com|peterahlgren.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
Hello. I'm Peter Ahlgren, and I'm a Ubuntu user from Sweden. I work as a freelancing webdeveloper / programmer. The first time I installed Ubuntu was during the ver 5.04-time. Nowadays Ubuntu is my first choice OS on all my computers (and phone).

In my spare time I'm running, and try to spend as much time as possible with my wife and my four kids.

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
My future plans in the world of Ubuntu is to learn as much as I can, and trying to be as valuable member as possible in the Ubuntu community.

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} Becoming a member of the Beginners Team.

 {*} Chasing bugs in Ubuntu and its software.

 {*} Doing translation work for different software on Launchpad.

 {*} Write some nice (FOSS) software for Ubuntu OS.

 {*} In the future, becoming a MOTU. 

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

==== Support ====
 {*} On Ubuntu Forums (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=228510|My account]]</nowiki>) as, I try to help in the beginners and programming parts of the forums.

 {*} On Ubuntu-beginners IRC-channel on Freenode as I try to answer as many beginners questions as possible.

==== Forum Guides: ====
 {*} Coming soon.

==== Locally: ====
 {*} I try to spread the knowledge about Ubuntu to as many persons as possible.

 {*} I'm active in my local usergroup.

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://peterahlgren.com|My blog]]</nowiki> is on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-se.org/planet/|Swedish Ubuntu Planet]]</nowiki>.

 {*} 2013: I'm the Team Leader for the Swedish Ubuntu Loco.

 {*} 2013: Leader of the Swedish translation group.

 {*} 2013: Organizing events at Software Freedom Day and Ubuntu Global Jam.

== Testimonials ==

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment below. 
----
CategoryHomepage
