{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Peter Chynoweth ===

Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada

=== About Me ===

I've been using Ubuntu since 8.04 (?) and I like it very much. It doesn't always work right "out-of-the-box" on this laptop, but there usually is help to be found to get around the problems. The glitches are almost always related to drivers for such things as wireless, modems, and sound that one has little freedom to choose when it is a laptop.

I always look for an open source software alternative and usually end up with something much nicer and better than a proprietary and closed and expensive option.

=== Experience ===

I was a programmer in a previous career, and I still tinker, but I don't have enough free time to do any real dedicated programming anymore. I can get around in C/C++, PHP, HTML, Python, Javascript and would be much better at it with more time to devote.

=== Hardware ===

==== Laptop ====
Acer Aspire 5520-5277 - AMD Turion Processor nvidiA GeForce 7000M / Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope) AMD64

==== Desktop ====
Box / Brand New / Dell Inspiron 545 with Intel Quad Core Q9400 / 1 TB Disk /6 GB Memory / Ubuntu not installed yet - coming soon

----
CategoryHomepage
