{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I want to add to the ubuntu experience.  To do this I intend to add/modify/delete packages for the ubuntu universe.  In other words I would like to become a MOTU.

To do this I am going to have to have some help.  Many of you would have noticed my feable attempts at asking questions.  For example I found a bounty to incorporate vtiger into ubuntu.  Not knowing what vtiger was I went through the whole bounty to find that someone had done it.  My question was where is it in the Repositories?

I really want to know how you have a package accepted into the universe, or do you simply put it there.  If it is the latter, how do you do this?

Now about me:

My name is Peter Norman Greenfield.  I am currently a student at the University of Newcastle where I am hoping to get a software engineering degree (spec. Bachelor of Engineering (Software Engineering)).  My main interests are tenpin bowling, reading, and computer games.

I already have an Associate Diploma in Business (Microcomputer Systems) that I obtained from Hunter Institute of Technology.

I have worked at the University of Newcastle as a statistical programmer before I went for the degree.  I have also worked in a direct marketting firm, simply as a database programmer.

I prefer to use C++, although I can use Java.  I have used Basic and Pascal.  Currently I will be learning two new languages Prolog and LISP.  The lisp will be scheme.

I have tried to find out how you make changes to the repositories.  If this is not possible, who do I talk to if a program can be in the repository?
