{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/me is Peter Savage, 24 year old IT Manager currently working in a school in Southampton UK.  Have been using linux for about 2 years in various forms and recently moved to Ubuntu.  Run a small LUG at the school called YouthLUG, where we teach Ubuntu to the pupils.  I started contributing to Ubuntu/Edubuntu at the beginning of April.  Spearheading Ubuntu advocacy at the school, giving out ShipIt CD's.

Been working heavily on documentation recently, creating SchoolsAdvocacy page, eventually hoping to be a printed pamphlet to send to schools.  Wrote LTSP man pages, and LTSP DHCP and multi boot docs.  Perform testing on Edubuntu CD's, whenever required.  Working on the edubuntu testing plans and report templates.  Reporting bugs, submitting fixes wherever possible.  Offering support whenever I can to the #edubuntu channel.

I hope to push Edubuntu to schools more and more.  Would love to showcase Edubuntu at the BETT show in London next year.  More testing.  Organise a team to write an edubuntu book for school administrators.  Get involved with getting better Active Directory integration for easier migration for schools.  More bug fixing, learning python and contributing to the LTSP manager package.  Aim to be come a MOTU.
