{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''PAGE UNDER CONSTRUCTION''

== One user's quest for (computer) freedom ==
I am a professional computer user with a heavy investment in Windows (time, training, work habits, and data) and a strong desire to move to a FLOSS OS (refer to ''Motivation'', below). By "professional computer user" I mean this computer is the single most important tool to my day-to-day work, to my living as a security and privacy consultant. Research, preparation of reports, customer communication, financial management, and, yes, taking breaks here and there: All depend on a computer, and for the last five years, all have happened on 'this' computer.

Since everything "just works" and works well under Windows, I am stubborn enough and cheap enough to believe everything should just work and work equally well under Ubuntu. I accept that I may have to learn new ways of doing things, but they should be minor, like the difference between changing cars: Controls for the windshield wiper and the headlights may be in slightly difference places, but the basics, the biggest part of the user experience, is - or should be - the same.

In this page I'll attempt to document my experience migrating from Windows and bringing my data and ways of working with me. The page will be part manifesto, part motivation, part project plan, part "as it happens" log, and part ''post mortem'' report.

=== About ''this'' computer ===
A 1999 vintage IBM Thinkpad A20m (refer to LaptopTestingTeam/ThinkpadA20m), 700MHz P3 with 256 MB RAM and an 11GB disk. Supporting devices are a Palm V, also vintage 1999, with a serial-port cradle, and an el-cheapo Logitech USB mouse connected via a 4-port LinXCel USB hub (the Thinkpad has a single USB port, the hub is handy for connecting my Sandisk Cruzer Mini 512 MB USB drive). Most of the time, the built-in 10/100 Mbps NIC connects me to the world; from time to time, an Asus Spacelink 802.11b PC Card stands in, e.g., when I want to surf from the living.

All of which works very, very well under Windows 2000 and always has: I can email, surf the web, prepare client deliverables, bill my clients, manage my contacts, sync my Palm, even play tunes.

== Migration (IMHO, YMMV) ==

A number of contributors have developed helpful pages concerning the differences between Windows and Ubuntu, how to move from Windows to Ubuntu, how to install a dual boot system, how to make Ubuntu mimic the Windows GUI and user experience, etc.

None of these pages address '''migrating''' from Windows to Ubuntu.

Migrating isn't about switching operating systems or making Ubuntu look like Windows: It's about preserving one's data, preserving one's investments, and continuing to do the things the computer is used for every day. At worst, migration should have no net effects, should leave the user no better off, no worse off. At best, the person should benefit from the migration.

Consider this analogy (and I'm the first to admit my analogies are often weak)....

Switching operating systems is like switching cars: You stop driving the old one and start driving the new one. That's it. You bring with you your ability to drive, your coffee mug, and your CD collection. The only "parts" of the old car that come with you are your experiences and memories, good and bad. All of the real "parts" of the car, the things you interacted with every time you got in, stay there. You may need to learn a few new things to continue doing what you did with the old car - Are the windshield wiper controls in the same place? The shifter? The radio controls? - but by and large the act of driving is the same, even though the experience might be very different.

Migrating operating systems is like moving: When you leave your old place, you your stuff with you. You interact with the place, but it is the people and your stuff that make it ''your'' place. Like the old and new car, the interactions with the new place may be slightly different than the old - different entrance, different kitchen, different rooms - but these are small things you adjust to quickly. Especially if you have your people and your stuff with you! Unless the move is forced, it should be, overall, a pleasant experience, and you should be able to continue to enjoy and benefit from life and your people and your stuff. Your move should only have positive effects on these interactions.

I cannot just switch, I cannot just "cut and run". I have to migrate, to bring years of data and ways of working with me, preferably without requiring new hardware, and if at all possible without having to pay for new software. After all, if I am moving to a FLOSS system, one would think I should be able to make the moving investing only my time and effort.

For me, this means having access under Ubuntu to all of same data and to all of the same external tools and services I used under Windows. Whether I need to learn new ways of doing things is almost beside the point (as is whether it is a few things or many that need to be learned): I have the same computer, I have the same ISP, I have the same PDA, and I have the same need to use all of these things. As a self-employed consultant, productivity and data accessibility are fundamentally important; any impacts to my productivity and any lost data could impact my wallet!

I should be able to accomplish this move investing only my time and energy, and then only a "reasonable" amount of each. At least that's my hope.
