{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Info ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Links'''
|-
| NewJerseyTeam<<BR>><nowiki>[[USTeams]]</nowiki><<BR>><nowiki>[[ServerTeam| Serverteam]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Real Name:'''
| Peter van der Does
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~petervanderdoes|petervanderdoes]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''Email:'''
| 
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| Ganseki on irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''IM Jabber:'''
| pvanderdoes (@) gmail.com
|-
| '''IM AIM:'''
| petervanderdoes
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=371637|Ganseki]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Public key:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xE77E8E98&op=index|E77E8E98]]</nowiki>
|}

Feel free to contact me.

=== About Me ===

I was born in 1970 in the Netherlands but I immigrated to the US in 2004 after marrying an American girl. I live in New Jersey, Middlesex county. I used to be a Systems Administrator, about 6 years doing Novell Netware and then about 4 years Unix/Linux (HPUX, Redhat, SuSe, Fedora, CentOS, Mandrake). I never really administrated Linux on desktops, just servers and besides the operating system it also involved application administration, like Apache, MySQL etc.
Right now I'm a stay home dad, taking care of our two girls.

=== Ubuntu ===

I started looking at a variety of distro's as I needed to run Linux on my laptop to remotely support the company I was working for. As I was used to RPM based distro's those were the first ones I looked into. It came down to two choices, Fedora or Suse. I never tried Suse as, even if it is RPM based it's more BSD as System V. After installing Fedora I didn't like it, it was just a little bit to much work to get it running on my laptop. After a couple of months using Fedora I decided to look into Ubuntu. I had time enough as I quit my job to become a stay home dad. I started the CD and low and behold everything just worked, my widescreen, my wireless. This was halfway 2006 and Ubuntu has been on my laptop since.

==== Memberships ====
* August 2007 - <nowiki>[[http://www.getdeb.net|GetDeb.net]]</nowiki>
* August 2007 - <nowiki>[[NewJerseyTeam| New Jersey Loco Team]]</nowiki>
* September 2007 - <nowiki>[[ServerTeam| Server team]]</nowiki>

=== Interests ===
* My major interest is computers: From systems administration to programming to web design I like it. Next to the technical aspects of computers I also like the business side, how to implement the right use of a system for a company.

* Photography: I have a Nikon D50 with two lenses at the moment. I shoot a variety of subjects, my family being number one.

* Golf: Unfortunately I can't seem to have the time to play.

=== Accomplishments in Ubuntu Community ===
==== GetDeb ====
I had a list of packages that I build but that was to much of a pain to keep updated :)

I tend to avoid creating the following kind packages:
* Games: It's not really my interest and there for I can't really get myself to work on it.
* Software that use the QT library: I just don't like the look of these programs and again I can't get motivated to created the package.
* Non-Gnome: I run Gnome myself and therefor am not interested in other desktops.

I don't mind creating non-desktop packages, like git the SCM software I use myself, but it seems there are never requests at Getdeb for that kind of software.

==== NJ LoCo Team ====
* Wiki changes

==== Server Team ====
* None yet

=== Goals ===
I don't have many goals as I rather live day by day but here are a few that I could think of.

==== Personal Goals ====
* Get healthier. I have some health issues I want to overcome.
* Become an American citizen
* Learn Python
* Read more books

==== Ubuntu Goals ====
* Create a package from scratch.
* Do more for the NJ LoCo
* Make www.getdeb.net the place to go to for software you want.
* See if I can help out the ServerTeam
