{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My name is Peter Dedecker.  I studied Computer Science Engineering, graduated in 2006.  Now I'm doing research at the <nowiki>[[http://www.ibcn.intec.ugent.be/|IBCN Research Group]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.intec.ugent.be/|Department of Information Technology (INTEC)]]</nowiki> of <nowiki>[[http://www.ugent.be|Ghent University]]</nowiki>.  In the past I was active as a student representative and as board member of the Flemish Technical Board (<nowiki>[[http://www.vtk.ugent.be|VTK]]</nowiki>), the organisation of the engineering students in Ghent.  I also founded the <nowiki>[[http://www.vtk.UGent.be/wvs|VTK Workgroup Free Software]]</nowiki> which tries to promote free software at the engineering students and teachers.  I founded and still manage the website <nowiki>[[http://LaTeX.UGent.be|LaTeX.UGent.be]]</nowiki>.

I'm using Linux since 2003.  I started with Mandrake Linux, switched to Gentoo Linux where I learned a lot about Linux, but switched again to Ubuntu in 2006 because I installed it on my girlfriends computer and was pretty amazed about it.  Previous to Ubuntu, she used SuSE but now she's mostly using Windows again, mostly for her job :-(  I also use Ubuntu at my work because that works a lot more comfortable for me and we also develop a lot on Linux there.

I really love Ubuntu and want to spread the word, as I am already doing a lot in student environments.

=== Contact ===

E-mail: 
Jabber: Peter DOT Dedecker AT jabber DOT belnet DOT be

Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/peter-dedecker]]</nowiki>
