{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Below are the items that were marked as Pending. I believe few members would still want to see this pushed through. Since we've lost all the data hosted on ServerPronto Mekong, all the items listed below was recalled from memory.

=== ubuntu-ph.org Email Address / Redirect ===

I believe this is plausible since the Korea Team has received favorable response (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2009-March/002887.html | thread]]</nowiki>). So the only thing we need to worry about is hosting.

* Google Apps for Domain may be able to help us, however, we're limited to 50 email accounts and every email we sent contains text ads.
* DaxSolomonUmaming - I may be able to spare some bandwidth for redirects. However, I don't think I can handle 100+ users, so I may lay down some conditions - probably depending on a users' tenure or the amount of contributions.

=== Multi-Blog Application ===

If I remember correctly, this was marked as rejected since almost every member has their own blog and aggregated in Planet``Planet. Having a Multi-Blog for Ubuntu-PH members seems too redundant.

However, some might disagree, I'd like to open a discussion regarding this issue.

=== Picture Gallery ===

If allowed by Canonical Sys``Admins, we may be able to use Gallery2 Module for Drupal. This module would allow users to easily upload and manage images we care to share to the community.
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
