{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu Documentation - Getting Started

=== Introduction ===

Ubuntu is all about community collaboration and the work we do together in order to produce a reliable world-class operating system. The same standards that apply to contributing to Ubuntu generally apply to contributing to Ubuntu Documentation.

Ubuntu Documentation is maintained by the Ubuntu Documentation Contributors Team with commit rights and administration by the Documentation Committers team and this page describes how you can start the journey of contributing to Ubuntu Documentation.

=== Tools for Ubuntu Documentation Work Flow ===

To be able to contribute to Ubuntu Documentation some tools will be required. So we will start by installing the following:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install gnupg bzr docbook docbook-xsl xsltproc libxml2-utils yelp-tools yelp-xsl
</pre>

The command will install the following software:
* gnupg – GNU Privacy Guard contains tools you will need to create a cryptographic key with which you will sign files you want to upload to Launchpad.
* bzr – distributed version control. Bazaar, a new way of working with packages for Ubuntu that will make it easy for many developers to collaborate and work on the same code while keeping it trivial to merge each other’s work.
* docbook - not sure if needed for desktop stuff. Needed for serverguide.
* docbook-xsl - not sure if needed for desktop stuff. Needed for serverguide.
* xsltproc - not sure if needed for desktop stuff. Needed for serverguide.
* libxml2-utils - not sure if needed for desktop stuff. Needed for serverguide.
* yelp-tools - Yelp documentation tools.
* yelp-xsl - XSL stylesheets for the yelp help browser.

==== Create your GPG key ====
GPG stands for GNU Privacy Guard and it implements the OpenPGP standard which allows you to sign and encrypt messages and files. This is useful for a number of purposes. In our case, it is important that you can sign files with your key so they can be identified as something that you worked on. If you upload a source package to Launchpad, it will only accept the package if it can absolutely determine who uploaded the package.

===== Generate a New GPG Key =====
Run:
<pre>
gpg --gen-key
</pre>
GPG will first ask you which kind of key you want to generate. Choosing the default (RSA and DSA) is fine. Next it will ask you about the key size. The default (currently 2048) is fine, but 4096 is more secure. Afterwards, it will ask you if you want it to expire the key at some stage. It is safe to say “0”, which means the key will never expire. The last questions will be about your name and email address. Just pick the ones you are going to use for Ubuntu development here, you can add additional email addresses later on. Adding a comment is not necessary. Then you will have to set a pass-phrase, choose a safe one (a pass-phrase is just a password which is allowed to include spaces).
Now GPG will create a key for you, which can take a little bit of time; it needs random bytes, so if you give the system some work to do it will be just fine. Move the cursor around, type some paragraphs of random text, load some web page.
Once this is done, you will get a message similar to this one:
<pre>
pub   4096R/43CDE61D 2010-12-06
      Key fingerprint = 5C28 0144 FB08 91C0 2CF3  37AC 6F0B F90F 43CD E61D
uid                  Benjamin Kerensa <bk@mailemfoo.us>
sub   4096R/51FBE68C 2010-12-06
</pre>
In this case 43CDE61D is the key ID.

===== Upload your GPG Key =====
Next, you need to upload the public part of your key to a key-server so the world can identify messages and files as yours. To do so, enter:
<pre>
gpg --send-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com <KEY ID>
</pre>
This will send your key to the Ubuntu key server, but a network of key servers will automatically sync the key between themselves. Once this syncing is complete, your signed public key will be ready to verify your contributions around the world.

==== Create your SSH key ====
SSH stands for Secure Shell, and it is a protocol that allows you to exchange data in a secure way over a network. It is common to use SSH to access and open a shell on another computer, and to use it to securely transfer files. For our purposes, we will mainly be using SSH to securely upload source packages to Launchpad.

To generate an SSH key, enter:
<pre>
ssh-keygen -t rsa
</pre>
The default file name usually makes sense, so you can just leave it as it is. For security purposes, it is highly recommended that you use a pass-phrase.

=== Get set up to work with Launchpad ===
With a basic local configuration in place, your next step will be to configure your system to work with Launchpad. This section will focus on the following topics:
What Launchpad is and creating a Launchpad account
Uploading your GPG and SSH keys to Launchpad
Configuring Bazaar to work with Launchpad
Configuring Bash to work with Bazaar

==== About Launchpad ====
Launchpad is the central piece of infrastructure we use in Ubuntu. It not only stores our packages and our code, but also things like translations, bug reports, and information about the people who work on Ubuntu and their team memberships. You will also use Launchpad to publish your proposed fixes, and get other Ubuntu developers to review and sponsor them.
You will need to register with Launchpad and provide a minimal amount of information. This will allow you to download and upload code, submit bug reports, and more. Besides hosting Ubuntu, Launchpad can host any Free Software project. For more information see the Launchpad Help wiki.

==== Get a Launchpad account ====
If you don’t already have a Launchpad account, you can easily create one. If you have a Launchpad account but cannot remember your Launchpad id, you can find this out by going to https://launchpad.net/~ and looking for the part after the ~ in the URL. Launchpad’s registration process will ask you to choose a display name. It is encouraged for you to use your real name here so that your Ubuntu developer colleagues will be able to get to know you better. When you register a new account, Launchpad will send you an email with a link you need to open in your browser in order to verify your email address. If you don’t receive it, check in your spam folder.
The new account help page on Launchpad has more information about the process and additional settings you can change.

==== Upload your GPG key to Launchpad ====
To find about your GPG fingerprint, run:
<pre>
gpg --fingerprint email@address.com
</pre>
and it will print out something like:
<pre>
pub   4096R/43CDE61D 2010-12-06
      Key fingerprint = 5C28 0144 FB08 91C0 2CF3  37AC 6F0B F90F 43CD E61D
uid                  Benjamin Kerensa <bk@mailemfoo.us>
sub   4096R/51FBE68C 2010-12-06
</pre>

Head to 
* https://launchpad.net/~/+editpgpkeys 
and copy the “Key fingerprint” into the text box. In the case above this would be 
* 5C28 0144 FB08 91C0 2CF3  37AC 6F0B F90F 43CD E61D 
Now click on “Import Key”. Launchpad will use the fingerprint to check the Ubuntu key-server for your key and, if successful, send you an encrypted email asking you to confirm the key import. Check your email account and read the email that Launchpad sent you. If your email-client supports OpenPGP encryption, it will prompt you for the password you chose for the key when GPG generated it. Enter the password, then click the link to confirm that the key is yours.
Launchpad encrypts the email, using your public key, so that it can be sure that the key is yours. If you are using Thunderbird, the default Ubuntu email client, you can install the Enigmail plug-in to easily decrypt the message. If your email software does not support OpenPGP encryption, copy the encrypted email’s contents, type gpg in your terminal, then paste the email contents into your terminal window.
Back on the Launchpad website, use the Confirm button and Launchpad will complete the import of your OpenPGP key.
Find more information at 
* https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/ImportingYourPGPKey

==== Upload your SSH key to Launchpad ====
Open https://launchpad.net/~/+editsshkeys in a web browser, also open ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub in a text editor. This is the public part of your SSH key, so it is safe to share it with Launchpad. Copy the contents of the file and paste them into the text box on the web page that says “Add an SSH key”. Now click “Import Public Key”.
For more information on this process, visit the creating an SSH keypair page on Launchpad.

=== Configure Bazaar ===
Bazaar is the tool we use to store code changes in a logical way, to exchange proposed changes and merge them, even if development is done concurrently. It is used for the new Ubuntu Distributed Development method of working with Ubuntu packages.
To tell Bazaar who you are, simply run:
<pre>
bzr whoami "Bob Dobbs <subgenius@example.com>"
bzr launchpad-login subgenius
</pre>
whoami will tell Bazaar which name and email address it should use for your commit messages. With launchpad-login you set your Launchpad ID. This way code that you publish in Launchpad will be associated with you.
Note: If you can not remember the ID, go to https://launchpad.net/~ and see where it redirects you. The part after the “~” in the URL is your Launchpad ID.)

=== Configure your shell ===
Similar to Bazaar, the Debian/Ubuntu packaging tools need to learn about you as well. Simply open your ~/.bashrc in a text editor and add something like this to the bottom of it:
<pre>
export DEBFULLNAME="Bob Dobbs"
export DEBEMAIL="subgenius@example.com"
</pre>

Now save the file and either restart your terminal or run:
<pre>
source ~/.bashrc
</pre>
(If you do not use the default shell, which is bash, please edit the configuration file for that shell accordingly.)

=== Getting Started with Ubuntu Documentation ===

Ubuntu Documentation uses the Mallard markup language for its offline documentation that ships with each release of Ubuntu. Mallard makes contributing to Ubuntu Documentation easy for almost anyone to dive into.

==== Getting a copy of the documentation development branch ====

The first step you will want to take to begin working on Ubuntu Documentation is to download a copy of the development branch of Ubuntu Documentation using Bazaar:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:ubuntu-docs
</pre>

Now that you have a local copy of Ubuntu Documentation you will want to become familiar with the anatomy of the Ubuntu Documentation branch. Mallard files will always be found in the path 
<pre>
~/ubuntu-docs/ubuntu-help/C.
</pre>

??? Add more

==== Editing Documentation Files ====

Improving Ubuntu Documentation is often as simple as opening the Mallard files in a command-line based text editor and reviewing them for minor changes like updating version numbers to the upcoming release number or checking for spelling and grammar.

In other cases for topic-oriented pages, it may be necessary to ensure that features have not significantly changed and if they have then update the documentation accordingly to reflect those changes.

==== Updating the changelog ====

Every time you make even a single change you should be sure that you document them by updating the change log which can be done by running the following command:

<pre>
dch -i
</pre>

An entry might look something like this:
ubuntu-docs (13.04.1) raring; urgency=low

  [ Jeremy Bicha ]
** Correct links to renamed menu bar page (LP: #1064559)
** Fix "valuable" typo (LP: #1061512)
** Add missing breadcrumbs to lens pages (LP: #1066482)

  [ Benjamin Kerensa ]
** Merged updated gnome-docs
** Bumped version numbers on the "What's new in Ubuntu 13.04?" page

  [Kevin Godby]
** Capitalized Dash and Launcher consistently

 -- Benjamin Kerensa <bk@mailemfoo.us>  Mon, 15 Apr 2013 19:33:07 -0700

==== Submit your changes for review ====

The next step you will want to take is to commit your changes using Bazaar by running the following commands:

<pre>
bzr commit -m 'Brief one sentence summary of change goes here'
</pre>

or if there is a related launchpad bug it can be linked in also:

<pre>
bzr commit --fixes lp:123456 -m 'Brief one sentence summary of change goes here; LP: #123456'
</pre>

Then you will want to use Bazaar to push your changes to Launchpad:

<pre>
bzr push lp:~bkerensa/ubuntu/saucy/ubuntu-doc/fix-for-foo
</pre>

(fix-for-foo can also be fix-for-bugnumber if related to a bug or something else)

Finally, you can propose your changes for merging by going to the Code section of your Launchpad account, select the appropriate branch, and submit a merge proposal ("Propose for merging"), or by running:

<pre>
bzr lp-propose
</pre>

(This command will open your default web-browser and if you have granted Bazaar permission to interact with Launchpad it will complete the propose of opening a Merge Proposal that Ubuntu Documentation Committers can review)

=== What's next ===

This documentation is intended to be introductory but you can learn much more about Mallard through their own tutorials. You can always ask for help on Ubuntu Documentation Team’s mailing list or on #ubuntu-doc on Freenode IRC.

We look forward to seeing your contributions to Ubuntu Documentation and answering any questions that you may have.
