{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{i} This is a trial programme and is not currently live for requests. The hardware listed is on offer but not yet. ;-)

== Introduction ==

In an effort to recycle hardware in good working order but is no longer wanted by members. This project space has been created to list hardware members wish to pass on and for members looking to pick up some hardware for their Ubuntu and general setups.

{i} This service is open to UKTeam members living in the United Kingdom only.

{i} Please do not just apply for hardware for the sake of it or for resale. This service is intended to help your fellow Ubuntu UKTeam members.

=== How It Works ===

* Member lists a piece of hardware they wish to offer on the list below.
* Member wanting a piece of hardware listed will email the offering member requesting that item of hardware. Please use the subject line '''UKTeam Parts Exchange Request''' when emailing.
* Member offering hardware allocates the item of hardware offered on a first requested first served basis.
* Member offering hardware emails successful member by return email requesting a mailing address.
* Successful member supplies a UK mailing address by return email.
* Member offering hardware despatches the item to the successful member by preferred postal method. See info section below regarding shipping costs.
* Member offering hardware marks the hardware item as '''YES''' in the '''Despatched''' section to confirm despatch.
* Once received. The successful member should mark the hardware item as '''YES''' in the '''Received''' section to confirm receipt of the hardware item.

{i} Shipping costs are the sole responsibility of the member offering hardware and no request for payment of any type should be made to another member. Having this in mind. Please do not offer hardware of a size you cannot afford to ship UK wide.

=== Parts For Offer ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a"> '''Name and Email'''
| '''Item Type'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Available'''
| '''Despatched'''
| '''Received'''
|-
| PhilWyett -
| Graphics Card
| Inno3D Geforce 5500 (AGP) with 256MB of RAM plus CRT and DVI.
| YES
| BLANK
| BLANK
|-
| PhilWyett -
| HDD Cooler
| Twin fan Evercool hard disk cooler. Screws to base of 3.5" HDD.
| YES
| BLANK
| BLANK
|-
| PhilWyett -
| PCI Sound Card
| Sound card. Creative ES1370 chip.
| YES
| BLANK
| BLANK
|-
| PhilWyett -
| PCI SATA/RAID Card
| Add two SATA drives. Silicon Image chipset.
| YES
| BLANK
| BLANK
|}

=== Extra Information, Questions and Answers ===

* Hardware is passed on with no warranty.
* Support for supplied hardware should be made through normal support channels and not directly to member who supplied it.

=== Contact ===

If you have any issues, questions or require assistance. Please email .
