{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Preparing for the session ==
* Talk to others knowledgeable in the subject area for feedback, help, ideas and what's new
* Layout a basic agenda for what you want to cover during your session -- feel free to share this with others for feedback
* Remember you don't have to type out everything you want to say beforehand. See below about leveraging the wiki. It is helpful to have a few sentences or important points laid out as part of your agenda however so you don't forget to mention or make those points during your session.
* Read over <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/Guidelines|the classroom guidelines]]</nowiki> page as well as the information on using the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom/ClassBot|classbot]]</nowiki>.

== Best practices ==
* Ensure all of the content you will use for teaching is a part of the ubuntu wiki. Leverage that content as much as possible. 
** This will make sure others can learn from your instructions -- even if they can't make the session.
** If there are no pages with good information on your subject, make some! Or alternatively if the pages that exist are old or incorrect, fix them and update them properly to reflect the current knowledge
* Keep your sessions short when possible. If your content is available on a wiki page, that's less you have to type directly, and more Q & A you can do to provide individual help and explanation.
* Pictures and media are great, but don't overload. A small prepared video demo (which you can link to from the wiki to share with everyone forever) and nice screenshots help people understand and stay engaged.
** On this note, don't be afraid to incorporate screensharing or livestreams as part of the session if it would be helpful to you and the audience.
