{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Philip Muskovac, apply for kubuntu-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Philip Muskovac
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~yofel
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.kubuntu.org/PhilipMuskovac
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm a 24 years old student from Stuttgart, Southwest Germany.

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I've been using Linux since around 2005 starting with Suse and later Debian. In 2007 I then switched to Ubuntu Gutsy.<<BR>>
I started testing the development releases of Ubuntu around mid-2008 and became part of the bugsquad early 2009 doing a lot of triage work and helping with the devel-release testing. I later started doing various packaging tasks and small bug fixes and after switching to Kubuntu end of 2009 and hanging around in #kubuntu-devel I started packaging for Kubuntu and have been working on the Kubuntu release packages as a Kubuntu Ninja since mid 2010. After doing a lot of work for the 4.6 packages and for Project Neon I became a Kubuntu Member in January 2011.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
 
* Release packaging of KDE since 4.5 (https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde4libs/4:4.6.90-0ubuntu1 for example)
* Successfully resurrecting Project Neon together with Rohan and Michal and maintaining it.
* Merging KDE packages from debian. (https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdeplasma-addons/4:4.6.3-1ubuntu1 for exmaple)
* Getting upstream copyrights fixed during 4.7 split as most upstream maintainers forgot to fix that during the git move.
* Wrote <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~kubuntu-packagers/kubuntu-dev-tools/trunk/view/head:/bin/kopypackages|kopypackages]]</nowiki> to work around launchpad's inability to copy more than one package at once between PPAs.

=== Areas of work ===

* Packaging new KDE SC releases:
  Getting the newest KDE software releases into Kubuntu ASAP together with the rest of the Ninjas and the other kubuntu-devs.
* Testing alpha releases:
  I'm usually using the devel release as my main environment to notice regressions as quickly as possible.
* Co-maintaining Project Neon:
  Making sure current KDE svn trunk / git master builds on kubuntu and notifying upstream developers if something got broken on their side.
* Managing the KDE SC packaging of the ninjas:
  Informing people what work is to be done, coordinating it and keeping track of what the debian-qt-kde team does so we keep duplicating work to a minimum.
* Full list of my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~yofel/+uploaded-packages|package uploads]]</nowiki>:
  What of the work I've done so far ended up in the archive.

=== Things I could do better ===
Remember to add proper breaks/replaces when I move files between packages.
Do better at reviewing/dropping patches.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* Work close with the debian-qt-kde team.
* Keep providing excellent KDE packaging for Kubuntu.
* Do more universe work and become a MOTU

=== Ninjas ===

* Become better at management (being kubuntu-dev would be helpful ;) )
* Write more scripts for kubuntu-dev-tools to make the ninjas life easier. The LP UI is horrible at scaling for PPAs with many packages.
* Bring the Ninjas wiki pages back into shape, esp. the information for new minions is rather outdated looking at our current processes. (The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/Kubuntu/Ninjas/BuildEnvironment|build environment]]</nowiki> page still mentions the batscript for example)
* Think of something to make our dep-graph usable again, it's an unreadable mess currently.
* Find more minions. With even more package splits on the horizon we'll have plenty of work for not enough ninjas.
* Invent something that auto-generates debug packages for packages with no -dbg packages in the PPA since we have no -dbgsym packages there.

=== What I like least in Kubuntu ===
* missing Ubuntu ONE client (couldn't resist :P)
 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
