{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the '''community documentation''' pages, created by Ubuntu users just like you! You can edit the pages on this site yourself, but please follow the <nowiki>[[WikiGuide|Wiki Guide]]</nowiki> before making any changes.

Documentation is also available in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/support/local|other languages]]</nowiki>.

== Get Help with Ubuntu ==

* <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com|Official Documentation]]</nowiki> - A collection of official guides on various aspects of using Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[CommonQuestions|Common Questions]]</nowiki> - Answers to common questions from new Ubuntu users 
* <nowiki>[[HowToGetHelp|Other Places to Get Help]]</nowiki> - Support resources for Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[TroubleShootingGuide|Troubleshooting guides]]</nowiki> - Solving troubles with configurations and software.
* <nowiki>[[Glossary]]</nowiki> - Glossary of commonly used terms.

== Installing or Upgrading Ubuntu ==

* <nowiki>[[Installation]]</nowiki> - Basic and advanced methods of installing Ubuntu, and information about supported hardware.
* <nowiki>[[ProcessorArch|Which Ubuntu CD to get]]</nowiki> - Which Ubuntu CD is appropriate for your computer.
* <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes| Upgrading Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Information on how to upgrade from older versions of Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/releasenotes|Release Notes]]</nowiki> - Information on new features and help specific to each Ubuntu release.
* Switching to Ubuntu from <nowiki>[[SwitchingToUbuntu/FromWindows|Windows]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[SwitchingToUbuntu/FromMacOSX|Mac OS X]]</nowiki> or another <nowiki>[[SwitchingToUbuntu/FromLinux|Linux distribution]]</nowiki> - Information and tips on how to switch from other operating systems to Ubuntu.

== Using and Customizing Ubuntu ==

* <nowiki>[[SoftwareManagement|Installing Software]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Applications]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Software]]</nowiki> - How to find, install and use different types of software available with Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[Multimedia]]</nowiki> - Playing MP3, DVD and other popular sound and video formats.
* <nowiki>[[InternetAndNetworking|Internet & Networking]]</nowiki> - Connecting to the Internet as well as your home or office network.
* <nowiki>[[CustomizeUbuntu|Customizing Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Change the way that Ubuntu looks and works
* <nowiki>[[Accessibility/doc/Guide|Accessibility]]</nowiki> - Making Ubuntu easier to use for those with physical or visual challenges.

== Advanced Topics and System Administration ==

* <nowiki>[[Programming]]</nowiki> - Information on creating software using Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[SoftwareFromOtherOperatingSystems|Software from other Operating Systems]]</nowiki> - Running other operating systems and their software (including Windows and Windows apps) in Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[SystemAdministration|System Administration]]</nowiki> - Maintaining your computer.
* <nowiki>[[Security]]</nowiki> - Keeping your computer safe.

== Connecting and Configuring Hardware ==

* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:HardwareSupport|Hardware Support]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing]]</nowiki> - Check if your desktop, laptop and hardware is compatible with Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[DrivesAndPartitions|Drives and Partitions]]</nowiki> - Adding storage, partitioning, accessing your Windows files, and more.
* <nowiki>[[Peripherals|Keyboard and Mouse]]</nowiki> - Setting up your keyboard and mouse.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkDevices|Network devices]]</nowiki> - Help with setting up networking & Internet devices.
* <nowiki>[[Printers]]</nowiki> - Setting up and using your printer.
* <nowiki>[[Sound]]</nowiki> - Setting up and using sound cards, speakers, and musical instruments.
* <nowiki>[[Video]]</nowiki> - Setting up graphics hardware.
* <nowiki>[[PortableDevices|Portable Gadgets]]</nowiki> - Syncing and transferring files from PDAs, audio players, mobile phones, and cameras.

== Servers and Large Deployments ==

* <nowiki>[[Servers]]</nowiki> - Setting up web servers, file servers, and more.
* <nowiki>[[CorporateUbuntu|Business Environment]]</nowiki> - Configuring Ubuntu for use in business environments.
* <nowiki>[[ThinClients|Thin Clients]]</nowiki> - Setting up and using thin clients.

== Can't Find What You're Looking For? ==

* <nowiki>[[TitleIndex|Index of all available pages]]</nowiki> - List of all community documentation pages.
