{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Desktop Documentation ==

* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/newtoubuntu/C/index.html|New to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS?]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/add-applications/C/index.html|Adding and Removing Software]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/add-applications/C/extra-repositories-adding.html|Adding extra repositories]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Applications]]</nowiki> - Guides to the different types of applications found on Ubuntu, help with finding applications.
** <nowiki>[[FreeSoftwareAlternatives]]</nowiki> - Free Software alternatives available on Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[SoftwareManagement|Installing Software]]</nowiki> - Finding, installing, and updating software.
** <nowiki>[[RecommendedApplications|Recommended Applications]]</nowiki> - A list of less well-known applications recommended by Ubuntu users.
** <nowiki>[[Software|Software]]</nowiki> - Information about software available for Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[SoftwareFromOtherOperatingSystems|Software From Other Operating Systems]]</nowiki> - Running other operating systems and their software, including Windows and Windows apps, in Ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[SoftwareAlphabeticIndex|Software List]]</nowiki> - Lists many of the applications you can install on Ubuntu.
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/files-and-docs/C/index.html|Files, Folders and Documents]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/config-desktop/C/index.html|Customising Your Desktop]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/internet/C/index.html|Internet]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/musicvideophotos/C/index.html|Music, Video and Photos]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/musicvideophotos/C/video.html#video-dvd|Playing DVDs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Multimedia]]</nowiki> - Playing and editing sound and video.
** <nowiki>[[Photos]]</nowiki> - Viewing and editing photos.
* '''<nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/users/gnome-access-guide/stable/|Assistive Tools]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[Accessibility]]</nowiki> - Make Ubuntu easier to use for those with physical or visual challenges.
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/keeping-safe/C/index.html|Keeping Your Computer Safe]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/printing/C/index.html|Printing and Faxing]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/advanced-topics/C/index.html|Advanced Topics]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[Programming]]</nowiki> - Creating software.
** <nowiki>[[UsingTheTerminal]]</nowiki> - Learn how to use the command line.

== Other Documentation ==

* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/about-ubuntu/C/index.html|About Ubuntu]]</nowiki>'''
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/index.html|Ubuntu Server Guide]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[Servers]]</nowiki> - Setting up web servers, file servers, and more.
** <nowiki>[[Security]]</nowiki> - Keeping your computer safe.
** <nowiki>[[SystemAdministration|System Administration]]</nowiki> - Maintaining your computer.
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/switching/index.html|Switching from Windows]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[SwitchingToUbuntu-FromWindows|Switching from Windows]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[SwitchingToUbuntu-FromMacOSX|Switching from Mac OS X]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[SwitchingToUbuntu-FromLinux|Switching from another Linux distribution]]</nowiki> 
* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/installation-guide/i386/index.html|Installation]]</nowiki>'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/releasenotes|Release Notes]]</nowiki> - Information on new features and help specific to each Ubuntu release.
** <nowiki>[[Installation]]</nowiki> - Basic and advanced methods of installing Ubuntu, and information about supported hardware.
** <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes| Upgrading Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Information on how to upgrade from older versions of Ubuntu.
