{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Jaunty Release Party ==

=== Planning Stages ===

* '''Date''': April 25, 2009
* '''Time''': 6:00PM / 1800H
* '''Venue''': Unit 207 Strata 2000 F. Ortigas Jr. (Emerald) Ave., Ortigas Center, Pasig 
* '''Note''': tell the guard you're going to Mobiliance.  Btw, on Saturday afternoons the entrance is at the back (Garnet Road).

==== Burnfest ====

* Dong Calmada to bring a Laptop with a CD burner
* DaxSolomonUmaming to provide the ISO (if released early) and 10-20 blank CD-Rs

==== List of Attendees ====

* DaxSolomonUmaming (daxumaming)
* <nowiki>[[Jucato | Juan Carlos Torres]]</nowiki> (jucato)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wersdaluv | Allan Caeg]]</nowiki> (wersdaluv)
* <nowiki>[[nhatz | Natali Rico Diocades]]</nowiki> (nhatz)
* <nowiki>[[dungkal | Dong Calmada]]</nowiki> (dungkal)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laibcoms | JC John Sese Cuneta]]</nowiki> (laibcoms)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~drakefrego | Francis Marvin Cruz]]</nowiki> (dodimar)
* Mark Christian D. Lopez (hk2999)
* VirilCalimlim (virilc)
* Johann Tagle (johanntagle)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lim-troy | Troy Frederick Lim]]</nowiki> (chewbacca22)
* Gener Luis Morada (G.ho.st)
* Mark Edward Avila <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kaiaphas | (Lord Kaiaphas)]]</nowiki>
* Orlando Pasion Jr <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~orlandopasionjr-live | (orlandopasionjr)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kabotage | kabotage]]</nowiki> (kabotage)
* Erle Czar Mantos (emantos)

==== Miscellaneous ====

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1107039 | Discussion Thread]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ph/2009-April/001776.html | List Announcement]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1128634 | Forum Announcement]]</nowiki>

=== Conclusion ===

==== Those who were able to attend ====

* DaxSolomonUmaming (daxumaming)
* <nowiki>[[Jucato | Juan Carlos Torres]]</nowiki> (jucato)
* Johann Tagle (johanntagle)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wersdaluv | Allan Caeg]]</nowiki> (wersdaluv)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laibcoms | JC John Sese Cuneta]]</nowiki> (laibcoms)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lim-troy | Troy Frederick Lim]]</nowiki> (chewbacca22)
* Gener Luis Morada (G.ho.st)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kabotage | kabotage]]</nowiki> (kabotage)
* Rochelle Derilo
* Frederick Bamm Gabriena
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kabotage | kabotage]]</nowiki> (kabotage)
* Dr. Pablo Manalastas
* Mr. Chin Wong

==== Blogs and Albums ====

* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/kabotage/sets/72157617302946214/ | Jay's Flickr]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://laibcoms.asia/blog/labox/gnulinux5/philippine-ubuntu-9-04-release-party | JC's Blog]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/laibcoms/GNULinuxUbuntu?feat=directlink# | JC's Photos]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://pmana.multiply.com/photos/album/6/Ubuntu-PH_Jaunty_Launch_Party | Doc Mana's Multiply]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.chinwong.com/index.php?/site/comments/linux_for_real_people/ | Chin's Blog]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://blog.knightlust.com/?p=120 | Dax's Blog]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.manilastandardtoday.com/?page=business6_april28_2009 | Manila Standard Today's Article]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
