{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Welcome to the '''Ubuntu Team Wiki''', a place for the Ubuntu community to discuss ideas and store team-related information.

You can edit almost all of the pages on this site. For more information on editing, see <nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing|Help on Editing]]</nowiki>. Please observe the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> at all times.

== Resources ==

* <nowiki>[[HowToGetHelp|How to Get Help]]</nowiki> - Get help with Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter|Weekly News]]</nowiki> - Weekly news from the Ubuntu community.
* <nowiki>[[EngineerCertification|Engineer Certification]]</nowiki> - Get involved in Ubuntu's new project aimed at creating the ''Ubuntu Engineer'' certification.

=== Software Developers ===

The software development teams work on the full range software which goes into Ubuntu. Whether its patching bugs or developing entirely new applications, one of the dev teams will be able to help.

* Documentation for developers can be found at <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment|Ubuntu Development]]</nowiki>
* The <nowiki>[[DesktopTeam|Desktop Team]]</nowiki> handles all of the packages which go into the Ubuntu desktop installation
* The <nowiki>[[InstallerTeam|Installer Team]]</nowiki> looks after the Ubuntu installer
* The <nowiki>[[KernelTeam|Kernel Team]]</nowiki> is tasked with maintaining the Linux kernel in Ubuntu
* The <nowiki>[[ServerTeam|Server Team]]</nowiki> is working to make Ubuntu the best Linux server platform on the planet
* The <nowiki>[[EmbeddedTeam|Embedded Team]]</nowiki> is working on making Ubuntu suitable for embedded hardware devices
* The <nowiki>[[Kubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Edubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Xubuntu]]</nowiki> projects all have their own development teams

=== Quality Assurance and Packaging ===

The quality assurance teams are tasked with organising and prioritising the hundreds of bugs which get reported against Ubuntu packages each week. The packaging teams are here to get new packages into Ubuntu and update older ones.

* The <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> heroically handles the stream of bugs reported by Ubuntu users
* <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> (the Ubuntu Universe packaging team) packages and maintains Ubuntu's massive collection of community-supported software packages
* The <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio/PackagingTeam|Ubuntu Studio packaging team]]</nowiki> packages multimedia applications for the Ubuntu Studio project
* The <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki> checks the hardware compatibility of Ubuntu with laptops

=== Marketing and Advocacy ===

The marketing and advocacy teams are here to spread the word about Ubuntu. From organising promotional events to preparing presentation materials, they are here to get Ubuntu noticed.

* Promotional material for Ubuntu is available from the <nowiki>[[Presentations]]</nowiki> page
* The <nowiki>[[MarketingTeam|Marketing Team]]</nowiki> directs the marketing and promotion of Ubuntu
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuLove|Ubuntu Love]]</nowiki> aims to get ''you'' involved with the Ubuntu project

=== Support and Documentation ===

The support and documentation teams aim to help users get to grips with Ubuntu. Whether it's writing system documentation or helping out on IRC support chat, the support and documentation teams are there to help you get the most out of Ubuntu.

* The <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team]]</nowiki> writes and maintains the core documentation for Ubuntu, including the system documentation and the help wiki

=== Accessibility ===

* The <nowiki>[[AccessibilityTeam|Accessibility Team]]</nowiki> is here to help improve the accessibility technologies available with Ubuntu.

=== Artwork ===

* The <nowiki>[[Artwork|Ubuntu Artwork Team]]</nowiki> works on artwork and graphics for many different parts of the Ubuntu project.

=== Localisation and International Users ===

* A map of Ubuntu Users throughout the world is available at <nowiki>[[UbuntuWorldWide|Ubuntu Worldwide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|List of LoCo Teams]]</nowiki>
* The <nowiki>[[TranslationTeam|Translation Team]]</nowiki> co-ordinates the translation of Ubuntu into many languages

== Community ==

* <nowiki>[[TheUbuntuCommunity| Ubuntu Community]]</nowiki> - Where the community comes together. Lists Local Community Teams, Ubuntu Development teams, and other teams, to find out how to get involved in the Ubuntu Community and spread the Ubuntu love!
* Among many other things in these pages you can find:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|How to Participate]]</nowiki> - '''Help the Ubuntu Community!'''
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|New Member Process]]</nowiki> - Become an Ubuntu member!

=== Community Councils and Boards ===

** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/techboard|Ubuntu Technical Board]]</nowiki> meets twice a month, see its next <nowiki>[[TechnicalBoardAgenda|Technical Board Agenda]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/council|Ubuntu Community Council]]</nowiki> meets twice a month, see its next <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncilAgenda|Community Council Agenda]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=198|Forum Council]]</nowiki> meets monthly, see its next <nowiki>[[ForumCouncilAgenda|Forum Council Agenda]]</nowiki>

== Events ==

The Ubuntu community participates in many events each year, from planning and team meetings to major industry conferences and shows.

* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/event|Ubuntu Calendar of Events]]</nowiki> on the <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com|Fridge]]</nowiki> - lists team meetings.
* 2007 Ubuntu events
** <nowiki>[[UES-Sevilla]]</nowiki> May 3-4, 2007 in Sevilla, Spain
** <nowiki>[[UbuconSevilla|Ubucon Sevilla]]</nowiki> May 5, 2007 in Sevilla, Spain
** <nowiki>[[UDS-Sevilla]]</nowiki> May 6-11, 2007 in Sevilla, Spain
* List of <nowiki>[[PastEvents|past events]]</nowiki> from 2004-2006
* <nowiki>[[ConferenceAppearances|Conference Appearances]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[ImportantEvents|Important Events]]</nowiki> at which Ubuntu should be represented.
** See <nowiki>[[UbuntuAtConferences|Ubuntu at Conferences]]</nowiki> for information on how to help.

== Releases ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Release'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Release Date'''
| '''Support Date'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn|Feisty Fawn]]</nowiki>
| Version 7.04
| Released April 19, 2007
| Supported until October 2008
|-
| <nowiki>[[EdgyEft|Edgy Eft]]</nowiki>
| Version 6.10
| Released October 26, 2006
| Supported until April 2008
|-
| <nowiki>[[DapperDrake|Dapper Drake]]</nowiki>
| Version 6.06
| Released June 1, 2006
| Supported until June 2009
|-
| <nowiki>[[BreezyBadger|Breezy Badger]]</nowiki>
| Version 5.10
| Released October 13, 2005
| Unsupported as of April 2007
|-
| <nowiki>[[HoaryHedgehog|Hoary Hedgehog]]</nowiki>
| Version 5.04
| Released April 8, 2005
| Unsupported as of October 2006
|-
| <nowiki>[[WartyWarthog|Warty Warthog]]</nowiki>
| Version 4.10
| Released October 20, 2004
| Unsupported as of April 2006
|}

For more information, please see <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki>.
