{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Documentation guy, wiki editor, Mallard evangelist, DocBook wrangler, former bug triager, occasional en_GB translator, erstwhile .desktop file meddler, and Ubuntu user (of course). My interests are in documentation, user assistance, and usability.

I graduated with a Masters' in Physics with Astrophysics from the <nowiki>[[http://www.physics.manchester.ac.uk/|University of Manchester]]</nowiki>, UK, in July 2010 and I'm going on to study for a DPhil (PhD) in Theoretical Cosmology at the <nowiki>[[http://www-astro.physics.ox.ac.uk/|University of Oxford]]</nowiki>, UK. I'm interested in dark energy, and will be looking at inhomogeneous (non-FRW) cosmologies which reproduce the observational effects associated with dark energy.

=== Book ===

I co-authored the 4th edition of ''<nowiki>[[http://nostarch.com/ubuntu4.htm|Ubuntu for Non-Geeks]]</nowiki>'', with Rickford Grant. It was published by <nowiki>[[http://nostarch.com|No Starch Press]]</nowiki> in July 2010, and is available from all good bookstores!

You can find out more about the book (including details of parts of it that I released under a Creative Commons license) in <nowiki>[[http://philbull.livejournal.com/55089.html|this blog post]]</nowiki>.

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/philbull|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.livejournal.com/users/philbull|LiveJournal]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/philbull/|Flickr]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.last.fm/user/pjbull/|Last.fm]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/philipbull|philipbull on Twitter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/philbull|philbull on Identi.ca]]</nowiki>

=== Documentation ===

I'm an active member of the Doc Team, and spend most of my Ubuntu-time committing patches, closing bugs and helping-out mentoring students. I also work with the <nowiki>[[http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gdp/|GNOME Documentation Project]]</nowiki>, and am a member of its Steering Committee.

=== Bugs ===

I was a member of the bugsquad, but haven't been very active recently.

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/philbull/+subscribedbugs?field.searchtext=&search=Search+bugs+Phil+Bull+is+Cc%27d+to&orderby=-priority%2C-severity&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Rejected&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=|Bugs I'm subscribed to]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/philbull/+reportedbugs?field.searchtext=&search=Search+bugs+reported+by+Phil+Bull&orderby=-priority%2C-severity&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Rejected&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=|Bugs I've reported.]]</nowiki>

=== Responsibilities ===

* Currently a member of the <nowiki>[[http://mail.gnome.org/archives/gnome-doc-list/2009-June/msg00009.html |GNOME Documentation Team Steering Committee]]</nowiki>.
* I'm a maintainer of the Ubuntu documentation and member of the documentation committers  team.
* I greet new members of the documentation team and help them find tasks.

=== Current Projects ===

* Writing and editing the new GNOME desktop help
* Planning for the coming renaissance in the GNOME developer documentation
* Numerous GNOME application manuals (Evolution, Evince, GNOME Color Manager)
* Working on the system documentation and TopicBasedHelp
* Helping out with <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/ProjectMallard|Project Mallard]]</nowiki>
* Analysing IRC logs, forum posts and website statistics to try and gauge the demand for certain documentation

=== Past Projects ===

* '''MOTU Science .desktop files'''
** <nowiki>[[http://tauware.de/pipermail/ubuntu-science/2006-March/000101.html|ubuntu-science Completion announcement]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2006-March/000875.html|ubuntu-art request for icons]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://philbull.googlepages.com/ubuntuscience|Project files and icons]]</nowiki>
* '''Switching from Windows guide'''
** <nowiki>[[SFWGuide]]</nowiki>
* '''System documentation'''
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>
** System -> Help and Support
* '''GNOME manuals'''
** Substantial updates to the GNOME <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/users/user-guide/stable/|User Guide]]</nowiki>
** Coordinating the writing or updating of several GNOME manuals
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2008-March/010477.html|Empathy]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2007-October/009734.html|Deskbar-Applet]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2009-January/012345.html|Rhythmbox]]</nowiki>
* '''DocuMENTORS'''
** Worked on setting-up the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Mentoring|DocuMENTORS]]</nowiki> programme
** Mentoring new contributors
* '''Welcome Centre'''
** Playing with the <nowiki>[[http://philbull.livejournal.com/43421.html|Welcome Centre]]</nowiki> concept (it never came to anything)

=== Testing ===

Some pages I'm using to test new ideas:

 
----
CategoryHomepage
