{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== April 10, 2014 at 6:00PM PHT onwards ===

If you add items to the agenda, please follow the example below-
If you put an item on the agenda, you will have to show up.
Otherwise the item may be deleted from the agenda. Please add
your name to items you add and invite any interested people to
the meeting. Please don't add items to the list on the day before a meeting.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| kidsodateless
| 14.04 LTS Release Party Planning and Team Reports
|}

{{{#!IRC
[03:19] <LauLau> hello everyone
=== Jucato_ is now known as Jucato
=== suodla_ is now known as suodla
[09:58] <kidsodateless_> Hi all
[09:58] <kidsodateless_> :)
[10:06] <kidsodateless_> mukhang busy ata ang lahat
[10:10] <kidsodateless_> I proposed to have a meeting today for the release party planning and  team reporting
[10:10] <kidsodateless_> this could be also our first activity of the month
=== tisza_ is now known as tisza
[10:20] <kidsodateless_> Hi tisza, jerrytgarcia are you here to attend the meeting? :)
[10:21] <kidsodateless_> Hi all, sobrang busy nyo parin hanggang ngayon hehe 
[10:22] <kidsodateless_> **yung iba siguro pauwi palang galing work 
[10:23]  * kidsodateless mic test
[10:25] <kidsodateless_> hi loell
[10:25] <kidsodateless_> :D
[10:25] <loell> kidsodateless_: wee! huli na ba ako :P
[10:26] <kidsodateless_> loell di pa nag-start hehe
[10:26] <loell> ahh heheh
[10:27] <kidsodateless_> attendance muna tayo: 1. kidsodateless (Efren Montales Jr.)
[10:29] <loell> 2. Loell.. well.. :D
[10:34] <kidsodateless_> tatlo palang tayo so far :D
[10:34] <kidsodateless_> hi tisza, you there?
[10:35] <tisza> present :D
[10:35] <kidsodateless_> yeah
[10:35] <tisza> pangit ang connection ko, hayz
[10:35] <loell> hello tisza :)
[10:36] <tisza> hello po
[10:36] <loell> hi jucato! hehehe
[10:38] <kidsodateless_> hi din kina Knightlust, zakame :D
[10:38] <kidsodateless_> let's start the meeting in a few minutes 
[10:39] <kidsodateless_> will give the plot then let's move the discussion on FB dahil tayong tatlo palang ang nanditong gising hehe
[10:40] <loell> alright, yeah good idea.
[10:42] <loell> so we will delete the May 1 event? at facebook?
[10:43] <kidsodateless_> yup delete na natin, April 30 nalang daw sabi ni Smart diba?
[10:43] <kidsodateless_> Topic:  14.04 LTS Release Party 
[10:44] <loell> yes
[10:44] <kidsodateless_> so final date na natin ang April 30 right?. 
[10:45] <loell> yes definitely, for the smart venue that is.
[10:46] <loell> oh, can you create another event that's April 30?
[10:47] <kidsodateless_> yup, or update the existing event page
[10:47] <loell> we need to make a call for speakers and topics (light technical & non-technical) para di naman matulog yung aatend. :D
[10:48] <loell> tisza might have some topic(s) in mind? :)
[10:48] <kidsodateless_> +1 yun we really need help for that
[10:49] <kidsodateless_> or may kilala ka tisza? :)
[10:49] <kidsodateless_> **Final date and Venue:  The final date is on April 30, The venue is on  Ortigas, will announce the exact location on FB group and update it on our event page or create a new one. 
[10:50] <loell> alright! thanks!
=== tisza__ is now known as tisza
[10:50] <kidsodateless_> ping tisza
[10:51] <kidsodateless_>  Since i posted the discussion about release party planning on FB group- i do not have the much in my mind to make a formal presentation and the like. But then dahil may Smart peeps we should have at least an informal presentation man lang. (We need help here) 
[10:52] <kidsodateless_> **Programme: 
[10:53] <kidsodateless_> -Brief introduction about our Local Community
[10:53] <kidsodateless_> -Demo of 14.04 LTS/ new features
[10:53] <kidsodateless_> -Socials /drinking session :D
[10:55] <kidsodateless_> We will ask who would like to present and add, tulad ng sabi mo baka matulog yung mga aattend hehe
[10:56] <loell> yes, probably also inlude an Ubuntu touch topic, it's current status and efforts.
[10:56] <loell> that will align with smarts Ubuntu phones offerings
=== tisza_ is now known as tisza
=== tisza_ is now known as tisza
[11:02] <kidsodateless> sorry na dc ako
[11:03] <tisza> ako rin
[11:04] <loell> so tisza baka may idea ka sa topic? di kailangan complicated, kahit ano pwede, heheh
[11:04] <kidsodateless_> so yun, let's ask kung sino pwede mag talks about ubuntu touch
[11:05] <kidsodateless_> ** Food and drink sponsorship:   We have a fellow member who would love to donate 5 bottles of Bacardi, madadagdagan pa daw depende sa sa dami ng 'going' sa FB event.  
[11:06] <kidsodateless_> (kung pwede sa venue)
[11:06] <kidsodateless_> so Food nalang ang kulang
=== tisza_ is now known as tisza
[11:08] <kidsodateless_> yun palang naman ang meron tayo for planning, and we are still welcome for more suggestions. :)
[11:09] <kidsodateless_> Anything you would like to discuss pa? :)
[11:10] <loell> that's it muna, i think we've covered the basic.
[11:10] <loell> oh wee need to have the draft soon
[11:10] <loell> so we can give it to marics
[11:11] <kidsodateless_> kaya nga
[11:11] <kidsodateless_> Will announce this to our mailling list
[11:11] <kidsodateless_> Let's move to second Agenda: Team Reporting
[11:15] <kidsodateless_>  Our teamReport page is now updated,   and we have reports from 2005 to 2012
[11:15] <kidsodateless_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PhilippineTeam/TeamReports
[11:17] <kidsodateless_> We need to ask kung sino sa mga member natin ang may napuntahang event, nag-organize, talks related to Ubuntu
[11:17] <kidsodateless_> We need to collect  pictures, blogs about the event, para sa report ng 2013
[11:17] <kidsodateless_> :)
[11:22] <loell> after the release party we'll raise this up, sana nga maka ipon tayo ng "ibidinsiya" :)
[11:23] <kidsodateless_> oo nga, hehe 
[11:23] <kidsodateless_> wala talaga tayong ibidinsiya nung 2013
[11:24] <kidsodateless_> kahit ako,  more on outdoor activities last year
[11:24]  * kidsodateless_ #endmeeting
[11:25] <kidsodateless_> Sobrang salamat sa time, loell, tisza 
[11:25] <kidsodateless_> bye for now
[11:26] <tisza> okay, thanks :D
[11:26] <loell> bye kidsodateless_  nice to meet tisza , see you around guys!
[11:40] <Knightlust> sorry i wasn't able to attend guys. night shift duty, was too exhausted.

}}}
