{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Creating Digital Video From A Still Image ==

This section details the basic steps of creating a layered image, through saving as a flat raw still image and finally converting the result into a specific frame length of Digital Video.

=== Prerequisites ===

This author assumes the reader is familiar with using GNU Linux and Ubuntu applications and is capable of performing basic tasks without in-depth explanation.

=== Required Applications ===

* '''GIMP''' - Installed by default as part of an Ubuntu Desktop install.
* ''encodedv'' - Part of package '''libdv-bin'''.

=== Creating The Still Image In The GIMP ===

This is entirely up to you but for this session we will use: <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu_logo_text_strapline_pal.xcf]]</nowiki>

{i} The example image is a simple two layer image, a background layer that is white and a foreground layer that is the Ubuntu logo. The image is saved in the '''GIMP''' XCF format.

=== Save As A Flat RAW Image In The GIMP ===

Once happy with an image it needs to be saved in a format ready for conversion. The authors preference is to save as a '''.ppm''' file and when prompted by the '''GIMP''' selecting the '''RAW''' format.

File: <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu_logo_text_strapline_pal.ppm]]</nowiki>

{i} Other file types and formats may be equally suited to this task - Experimenting is learning! :-)

=== Creating The Digital Video File ===

Open the '''Terminal''' and navigate to the location of ''ubuntu_logo_text_strapline_pal.ppm'' and enter the command below.

<pre>
encodedv -e 100 ubuntu_logo_text_strapline_pal.ppm > ubuntu_logo_text_strapline_pal.dv
</pre>

''encodedv'' will take the input file and convert it to Digital Video for you. Your only real concern is the command switch '''-e''' which specifies the end frame. A film seen at the cinema is normally produced at 25 frames per second... So a project that uses 25 frames per second; in the example above using the switch and value '''-e 100''' the author has created a 100 frames/4 seconds of Digital Video.

{i} Screen casts are normally recorded at 15 frames per second.

=== What Now ??? ===

Once the Digital Video file has been created it can be imported into video editors like '''Kino''' or '''LIVES''' and be used as part of a larger project and saved in any particular format the reader wishes or a particular video editor is capable of.

As an example the author has taken the end result Digital Video file and used '''ffmpeg2theora''' to create a playable '''theora''' encoded video file within '''Totem'''.

File: <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu_logo_text_strapline_pal.ogm]]</nowiki>

----
