{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



* '''Name      :''' Philip R Whitaker
* '''Location  :''' East Midlands, United Kingdom
* '''E-mail    :''' phil@beardygnome.co.uk
* '''Launchpad :''' https://launchpad.net/~beardygnome
* '''IRC       :''' beardygnome @ irc.freenode.net
* '''Website   :''' http://beardygnome.co.uk
* '''Distro    :''' Xubuntu
* '''Teams     :''' https://launchpad.net/~beardygnome/+participation

=== About me ===

I am a data analyst who has been working with computers since the early 1990s, when my family bought an Acorn Archimedes.  From there, I progressed through Windows 95, 98, 2000, NT4 and XP (at home and since starting work).  I was introduced to Linux and Ubuntu by a colleague in 2008, when Ubuntu 8.04 was released, but found that my (then) 1 GB of RAM did not run the GNOME desktop as well as I would have liked, so switched to Xfce and Xubuntu and have not looked back.  I also run Debian Testing an a couple of SheevaPlugs, using one for backup, torrents and media / file sharing and the other for offsite backup.

In my professional life, I'm very much Windows based, using Microsoft technologies such as SQL Server and .NET.  I am proficient in Transact-SQL and have a reasonable grasp of the Windows Scripting technologies JScript and VBScript, along with a knowledge of VB.NET and C# basics.

Away from work, I have dabbled with Arch Linux (briefly!), C++, Java, Vala, XHTML, JavaScript, PHP, WordPress, MySQL and Sqlite.  I try to keep my Linux and (X)Ubuntu knowledge current by listening to podcasts, participating in mailing lists and IRC channels and attending the weekly Xubuntu Meetings.

=== Contributions ===

==== Xubuntu 11.04 ====

* I attended and participated in most of the Xubuntu team meetings leading up to the 11.04 release.
* I reviewed the documentation for 11.04 and made numerous suggestions for updates and improvements.

==== Xubuntu 11.10 ====
