{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==
I am a Kernel Engineer on the <nowiki>[[KernelTeam|Ubuntu Kernel Team]]</nowiki> at Canonical. 

I was first introduced to Linux back in the early 90's when a high school teacher lent me his copy of Slackware.  It was on thirty-three 3.5" disks, and it was quite the chore to get it running on my 486 at the time. 

I remember the process of downloading a new kernel tarball, and planning an evening or two to configure and compile the kernel.  I also remember how much effort it was to manually calculate the modelines to get XFree86 running.

My first contribution to open source software happened while I was at university, <nowiki>[[https://github.com/UweOhse/lrzsz/blob/master/THANKS|in the lrzsz software package]]</nowiki>.  

When I graduated from University, I spent about a decade working on various other Unix's. I worked on network protocols, filesystems, and memory management systems.

One day, I asked a friend about was a good Linux distribution would be for me to install as I needed to run some things on my home computer.  He recommended Ubuntu.  It blew me away how much the installation process had changed and how user friendly it had become. 

I ended up switching jobs, and I ended up working on device drivers for Linux from 2010 until 2021. My distribution of choice has remained an Ubuntu based distribution.

== What I do ==
I joined Canonical in 2021, and I am on the kernel team. So, I work on Ubuntu kernels.  But more specifically, I am responsible for the Ubuntu kernels for Intel systems.

== Links ==
* Launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~philcox
* Email: philip.cox@canonical.com
* IRC: philcox

== Activity ==
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~philcox

== Sponsoring ==
My application for Ubuntu kernel upload rights <nowiki>[[PhilipCox-KernelUploadsApplication]]</nowiki>
