{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==
I am a Kernel Engineer on the <nowiki>[[KernelTeam|Ubuntu Kernel Team]]</nowiki> at Canonical. 

I was first introduced to Linux back in the early 90's when a high school teacher lent me his copy of Slackware.  It was on thirty-three 3.5" disks, and it was quite the chore to get it running on my 486 at the time. 

I remember the process of downloading a new kernel tarball, and planning an evening or two to configure and compile the kernel.  I also remember how much effort it was to manually calculate the modelines to get XFree86 running.

My first contribution to open source software happened while I was at university, <nowiki>[[https://github.com/UweOhse/lrzsz/blob/master/THANKS|in the lrzsz software package]]</nowiki>.  

When I graduated from University, I spent about a decade working on various other Unix's. I worked on network protocols, filesystems, and memory management systems.

One day, I asked a friend about was a good Linux distribution would be for me to install as I needed to run some things on my home computer.  He recommended Ubuntu.  It blew me away how much the installation process had changed and how user friendly it had become. 

I ended up switching jobs, and I ended up working on device drivers for Linux from 2010 until 2021. My distribution of choice has remained an Ubuntu based distribution.

== What I do ==
I joined Canonical in 2021, and I am on the kernel team. So, I work on Ubuntu kernels.  But more specifically, I am responsible for the Ubuntu kernels for Intel IOTG systems.

== Links ==
* Launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~philcox
* Email: philip.cox@canonical.com
* IRC: philcox

== Activity ==
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~philcox

== Sponsoring ==

Here is a table of packages I've had sponsored.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Date  '''
| ''' Sponsor  '''
| ''' Sponsoree  '''
| ''' Package  '''
| ''' Version  '''
| ''' Distribution  '''
|-
| 2021-11-16 16:19
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-azure
| 5.11.0-1022.23
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-11-16 16:52
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-azure
| 5.11.0.1022.23
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-11-16 16:52
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-azure
| 5.11.0-1022.23
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-11-16 16:53
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-azure
| 5.11.0-1022.23
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-11-16 16:53
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-azure
| 5.11.0-1022.23
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-11-18 19:41
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-azure-5.11
| 5.11.0-1022.23~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-11-18 19:58
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-azure-5.11
| 5.11.0.1022.23~20.04.22
| focal
|-
| 2021-11-18 19:59
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-azure-5.11
| 5.11.0-1022.23~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-11-18 20:00
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.11
| 5.11.0-1022.23~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-11-18 20:00
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-azure-5.11
| 5.11.0-1022.23~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-12-01 20:29
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-oracle
| 5.11.0-1023.24
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-12-01 21:08
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-oracle
| 5.11.0.1023.24
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-12-01 21:09
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-oracle
| 5.11.0-1023.24
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-12-01 21:09
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle
| 5.11.0-1023.24
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-12-01 21:09
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-oracle
| 5.11.0-1023.24
| hirsute
|-
| 2021-12-02 16:22
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1023.24~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-12-02 17:00
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0.1023.24~20.04.16
| focal
|-
| 2021-12-02 17:01
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1023.24~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-12-02 17:01
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1023.24~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2021-12-02 17:01
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1023.24~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-01-25 19:11
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1028.31~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-01-25 19:39
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0.1028.31~20.04.20
| focal
|-
| 2022-01-25 19:39
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1028.31~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-01-25 19:40
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1028.31~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-01-25 19:40
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-5.11
| 5.11.0-1028.31~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-09 14:22
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1003.5
| jammy
|-
| 2022-03-09 14:55
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0.1003.5
| jammy
|-
| 2022-03-09 14:56
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1003.5
| jammy
|-
| 2022-03-09 14:56
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1003.5
| jammy
|-
| 2022-03-09 14:56
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1003.5
| jammy
|-
| 2022-03-09 15:24
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1003.5~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-09 16:12
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0.1003.5~20.04.4
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-09 16:12
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1003.5~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-09 16:13
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1003.5~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-09 16:13
| Marcelo Cerri
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1003.5~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-10 14:50
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-gke
| 5.4.0-1066.69
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-10 15:17
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-gke
| 5.4.0.1066.76
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-10 15:18
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-gke
| 5.4.0-1066.69
| focal
|-
| 2022-03-11 17:04
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-gke-5.4
| 5.4.0-1066.69~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2022-03-11 17:34
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-gke-5.4
| 5.4.0.1066.69~18.04.30
| bionic
|-
| 2022-03-11 17:35
| Kleber Sacilotto de Souza
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-gke-5.4
| 5.4.0-1066.69~18.04.1
| bionic
|-
| 2022-04-07 18:19
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1004.6
| jammy
|-
| 2022-05-30 17:31
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0.1006.8
| jammy
|-
| 2022-05-30 17:31
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1006.8
| jammy
|-
| 2022-05-30 17:33
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1006.8
| jammy
|-
| 2022-05-30 17:33
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1006.8
| jammy
|-
| 2022-05-30 17:46
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1006.8
| jammy
|-
| 2022-05-31 20:12
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1006.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-05-31 20:30
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0.1006.8~20.04.6
| focal
|-
| 2022-05-31 20:32
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1006.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-05-31 20:33
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1006.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-05-31 20:33
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1006.8~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-08-31 14:25
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1015.20
| jammy
|-
| 2022-08-31 19:45
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0.1015.16
| jammy
|-
| 2022-08-31 19:45
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1015.20
| jammy
|-
| 2022-08-31 19:45
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1015.20
| jammy
|-
| 2022-08-31 19:45
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1015.20
| jammy
|-
| 2022-09-02 12:44
| Stefan Bader
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0.1015.20~20.04.10
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-06 14:48
| Tim Gardner
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1015.20~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-06 16:41
| Tim Gardner
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1015.20~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-06 16:43
| Tim Gardner
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1015.20~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-06 16:43
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1015.20~20.04.2
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-13 12:25
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1016.21
| jammy
|-
| 2022-09-13 14:10
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0.1016.17
| jammy
|-
| 2022-09-13 14:13
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1016.21
| jammy
|-
| 2022-09-13 14:16
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1016.21
| jammy
|-
| 2022-09-13 14:16
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg
| 5.15.0-1016.21
| jammy
|-
| 2022-09-13 17:06
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1016.21~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-13 17:28
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-meta-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0.1016.21~20.04.11
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-13 17:28
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-signed-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1016.21~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-13 17:29
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-signatures-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1016.21~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2022-09-13 17:29
| Khaled El Mously
| Philip Cox
| linux-restricted-modules-intel-iotg-5.15
| 5.15.0-1016.21~20.04.1
| focal
|}

Source: <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=philip.cox%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|Ubuntu Sponsorship Miner]]</nowiki>

== Upload Rights ==

I am requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which include all of the “linux*” packages.

== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader (smb) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I have been reviewing a bunch of kernels for Philip and beside
the generic rant below I did not find anything to complain.
Any minor issues in the beginning were quickly resolved and what
I can remember, if there was anything unclear it got addressed
immediately. I also would trust Philip to carefully consider
what he will be doing. So I am recommending Philip to receive the
PPU rights for kernel packages.

==== Suggestions for Improvement ====

When producing kernels I would appreciate a little more thoughtfulness
(this is not limited to Philip, I just want to start putting more
emphasis on it) when it comes to the changelog. Too often I see entries
like "[Config] Updateconfigs for foo" which are meaningless. Was the
option enabled, disabled, dropped? If someone reads this in the
changelog it is like saying "Mehmeh, I changed something but I don't
tell you what".
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=lHzQ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== Tim Gardner (rtg) ===

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

I've reviewed a number of kernels and dependent packages produced by Phil.
Once the initial learning curve mistakes were made, Phil has produced
packages without error. I am sure Phil will carefully consider what he
is uploading. I am recommending Phil to receive PPU upload rights for
kernel and dependent packages.

Tim Gardner Oct 19, 2022
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=idx8
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Marcelo Cerri (mhcerri) ===

==== General Feedback ====

I have reviewed kernels and dependents packages prepared by Phil and I
trust his skills to prepare, update and fix kernel packages as he has
shown very capable in those tasks. He is also very cautious, asking
questions and looking for advice when necessary. Phil has my
endorsement for his kernel package upload rights.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=26gH
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
