{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~corenominal|corenominal]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''corenominal''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://corenominal.org/
|-
| '''Identica''':
| http://identi.ca/corenominal
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/corenominal
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&time=&date=&ttype=&q=lincoln,+england+uk&ie=UTF8&ll=53.238921,-0.549316&spn=8.817437,20.566406&z=6&iwloc=addr&om=1|Lincoln, England, UK]]</nowiki>
|}
=== About Me ===

I'm a 30 something year old web developer and GNU/Linux enthusiast. When I'm not in the "zone" and geeking out with computers I can be found hanging out with my wife Becky and <nowiki>[[http://corenominal.org/daisy/|Daisy the dog]]</nowiki>.

I began experimenting with Linux on the desktop in 1999 when I purchased a packaged copy of SuSE 6.3. I ordered it from a local retailer as downloading it via a dial-up connection was not an option. The distribution came on 6 CD-ROMs and I remember being totally amazed by the sheer amount of free programs it included.

The next distribution I encountered was Caldera's O''''''penLinux 2.4. After that I took a break from using Linux on the desktop until Fedora Core was released in 2003. I continued to use Fedora as my main OS and upgraded as new versions were released. Then in 2004 I happened across Ubuntu and I adopted it as my main OS. These days I can mainly be found using <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/|Debian GNU/Linux]]</nowiki>, or my own derivative of Debian, <nowiki>[[http://crunchbanglinux.org|CrunchBang]]</nowiki>.
