{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Who is phineas?
Where does he come from?
What does he do? 
These questions are irrelevant to the matter at hand, however I shall answer them because I'm in the position to. Phineas, is me, I am him. Phineas comes from Nigeria, that's right, I'm nigerian. I'm a student, I don't do much, however but I run linux. I love ubuntu because of it's ease of use, it's simplicity with the most complex of computations. 
Unfortunately my life has taken a turn, of which has spun me 360 degrees, I don't do much yet I'm always occupied. I like the C programming language, I'm learning it, I must admit for a learner to programming as a whole, I'm slightly becoming efficent at it. There's not much to my story, what can I say, I'm a geek. :)
== More about me ==

I'm 18.

I'm a guy.

I've been running ubuntu for about a year.

I live and originate from Nigeria.

I'm a geek, and love everything tech.

== Projects ==
I hope to start a project regarding ubuntu in yoruba, hausa and igbo. The three major Nigerian languages. Unfortunately I haven't really got many people along side me. However, with time all things are possible.

====== More soon ======
----
CategoryHomepage
