{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

I was born in a small town on beautiful Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia, Canada. I have always been very interested in technology but only since discovering Linux in June 2005, have I taken a hands on approach.

My first experience with computers was in the late 80's with the TI 99/4A. My favorite game was "Tunnels of Doom". At age 8 or 9, I got a few programming books from the local library and did a little minor game programming but quickly fell out of that with the relocation of my family and loss of constant computer access. It wasn't until about 1996 that my family got their first real PC. Once I hit university, I became more interested in computers and I learned here and there. In 2002 I bought my first and only computer and am now looking to get a laptop to make a primary, portable, sole Ubuntu.

My love of technology is second only to my love of acting(and maybe music ;). I began my "career" when I was 10. At that point living in Toronto with my family before a job change for my father moved us back to our home town. I didn't get back into it until I was 15. I have done numerous voluteer plays with local community and university theatre groups as well as a tad of tv/cinema.

In 2000 I decided to move back to Toronto and with a little acting work there, and a "new" career in Print Production, I stayed until returing back to "The Cape" in March of 2005.

=== My Early Ubuntu Experience ===

There isn't much to say about my Ubuntu experience except to say that it has been fantasic. After a failed attempt at a SuSE live cd, I thought my Linux days were over until I caught wind, and large recommendation from a long time friend, of the Ubuntu distribution. Since then, I haven't looked back. The people on both IRC and the Fourms have been very helpful in my Ubuntu integration. I look forward to a long and happy relationship with Ubuntu/Linux and wish to do anything I can to help such a great distro with such a comforting philosophy.

That was then, this is now....

You can usually find me hanging out in #kubuntu-offtopic but I help out in #ubuntu and #kubuntu in any way I can (that's irc.freenode.net of course). I've also been known to make a post or two in the forums to help there as well. I am an avid supporter of Ubuntu and especially its philosophy and I hand out cd's and praise anytime I can. 

Thanx for all the fantasic work everyone =)
