{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Created BY Makra(mattias@makra.org).
I have copyed much of the text from the http://php-java-bridge.sourceforge.net page.

This tutorial is for the persons that needs to run java code in there php pages. This is an explanation how I did to get it up and running.

PHP and Apache needs to be installed.

Installation on Ubuntu 6.06:

 1. apt-get install sun-java5-jdk
 2. dpkg -i php-java-bridge_3.1.1-1-php5.1.X_i386.deb (PHP 5.1)
 3. dpkg -i php-java-bridge-standalone_3.1.1-1_i386.deb

php-java-bridge_3.1.1-1-php5.1.X_i386.deb is intended for PHP 5.1 or PHP 6.X I have run it on my PHP 5.1.2. The file was repakaged by me with the help of alien. Have repacaged the two other files for PHP 5.0 and PHP 4.3.2 and grater. but not tested to install. this is the links to the files.

* http://www.mazk0.com/php-java-bridge/php-java-bridge_3.1.1-1-php5.1.X_i386.deb (PHP 5.1 or PHP 6.x)
* http://www.mazk0.com/php-java-bridge/php-java-bridge_3.1.1-1-php5.0.X_i386.deb (PHP 5.0.x)
* http://www.mazk0.com/php-java-bridge/php-java-bridge_3.0.8-1-php4.3.2_i386.deb (PHP 4 (>= 4.3.2))
* http://www.mazk0.com/php-java-bridge/php-java-bridge-standalone_3.1.1-1_i386.deb

after this has been done you have to edit the php.ini file. At the end add "extension = java.so"

Known Issues:
If you have the php extensions in a directory like /user/lib/php5/20051025 you have to compy the java.so, JavaBridge.jar, libnatcjavaBridge.so and RunJavaBridge here from the /usr/lib/php/modules folder.

Please coment if something is not working.
