{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/php5-universe
* '''Created''':  by LucaFalavigna
* '''Contributors''': LucaFalavigna, CarlosBriosso
* '''Packages affected''': php5

=== Summary ===

Debian provides a source package called php5 which includes, among others, three binary packages: ''php5-imap'', ''php5-interbase'' and ''php5-mcrypt''. They are non provided in Ubuntu's php5 since they build-depend on packages which lie in Universe component (''libc-client-dev'', ''firebird2-dev'' and ''libmcrypt-dev'' respectively), while php5 lies in Main component.

=== Rationale ===

There are several packages which depend on those packages and can not be installed. Here they are:

* Unmetdeps for php5-imap
** phpgroupware
** egroupware-felamimail
** twig
** gosa
** imp4

* Unmetdeps for php5-interbase
** ibwebadmin

* Unmetdeps for php5-mcrypt
** phpmyadmin

Ubuntu changelog states separate php-{imap,interbase,mcrypt} are present into archives:

<pre>
   - debian/control, debian/rules: Disable a few build dependencies and
     accompanying binary packages which we do not want to support in main:
     + firebird2-dev/php5-interbase (we have a separate php-interbase source)
     + libc-client-dev/php5-imap (we have a separate php-imap source)
     + libmcrypt-dev/php5-mcrypt (separate php-mcrypt source)
</pre>

but a quick look at http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/removals.txt shows that:

<pre>
=========================================================================  ==
=========================================================================  ==
[Date: Mon, 27 Nov 2006 14:47:44 +0000] [ftpmaster: Launchpad Archive Manager]
Removed the following packages from feisty:

php-interbase |    5.1.2-1 | source
php4-interbase |  4:5.1.2-1 | amd64, i386
php5-interbase |    5.1.2-1 | amd64, i386

------------------- Reason -------------------
(From Debian) [auto-cruft] obsolete source package

----------------------------------------------
=========================================================================  ==
=========================================================================  ==
[Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2007 14:17:49 +0100] [ftpmaster: Launchpad Archive Manager]
Removed the following packages from gutsy:

  php-imap | 5.1.2-1ubuntu1 | source
 php5-imap |    5.1.2-1 | hppa
 php5-imap | 5.1.2-1ubuntu1 | amd64, i386, ia64, powerpc, sparc

------------------- Reason -------------------
(From Debian) [auto-cruft] obsolete source package

----------------------------------------------
=========================================================================  ==
=========================================================================  ==
[Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2007 14:18:00 +0100] [ftpmaster: Launchpad Archive Manager]
Removed the following packages from gutsy:

php-mcrypt | 5.1.2-1ubuntu1 | source
php5-mcrypt |    5.1.2-1 | hppa
php5-mcrypt | 5.1.2-1ubuntu1 | amd64, i386, ia64, powerpc, sparc

------------------- Reason -------------------
(From Debian) [auto-cruft] obsolete source package

----------------------------------------------
=========================================================================  ==
=========================================================================  ==
</pre>

As you can see, these packages never reached Gutsy.

=== Use cases ===

* Martin is an Ubuntu user which does use phpmyadmin to manage his databases on an AMD64 platform. He is unable to use it without php5-mcrypt due to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/phpmyadmin/+bug/114044|bug #114044]]</nowiki>.

* Andrew is an Ubuntu user. He uses phpgroupware to manage his activities and he is unable to run it anymore.

=== Scope ===

This specification is meant to provide ''php5-imap'', ''php5-interbase'' and ''php5-mcrypt'' packages in Gutsy and keep them up-to-date with php5 source package in order to avoid versioning conflicts and compatibility issues.

=== Design ===

We should provide those packages using a single source package (named ''php5-universe'', for instance) which groups these three binary packages. This way it is sufficient to upload only a source package when there is need to instead of having multiple uploads.

In order to keep it synced as much as possible with upstream source package, we should define a strategy which can easily merge changes in.

=== Implementation ===

We have ready for test and revision, the first version of '''php5-universe sources''': http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=5701

To keep php5-universe up-to-date, we could create a new Launchpad team whose members have upload rights to a bzr branch which contains the files needed. When a new version of php5 is released, we can merge it with our branch, purge unneeded files and release a updated package. This should be done in a few days after a php5 release.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
