{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Pierre Kilchenmann ==

=== Occupation - Beschäftigung -  Occupation ===

* FR -- Il y deux ans encore, mon rôle dans la communauté se réduisait à l’administration de Debian sur des serveurs web. Actuellement, je travaille à une thèse dans le domaine des systèmes d'information administratifs à l'Université de Lausanne. Demain, j’espère  accompagner Ubuntu dans les foyers, les administrations et partout ailleurs.
* DE -- Vor zwei Jahren beschränkte sich meine Rolle in der Gemeinschaft auf Debianserveradministration. Heute arbeite ich an einer These im Bereich der administrativen Informationssysteme. Morgen wünschte ich Ubuntu in Haushalte, Verwaltungen und überall zu begleiten.
* EN -- Two years ago, I was contributing in the community as a Debian Server Administrator. Today, I am working on a thesis about public Information Systems. Tomorrow, I wish to follow Ubuntu in households, public administration and everywhere. 

=== Motivations - Motivationen - Motivations ===

* FR -- De toutes les distributions que RetoSchafer et moi avons essayées, Ubuntu est la distribution la plus simple et stable. Afin de faire connaitre cette distribution au grand public en Suisse, nous  avons initié le SwissTeam.
* DE -- Von allen Distributionen, welche RetoSchafer und ich ausprobiert haben, ist Ubuntu die einfachste und stabilste. Um diese Distribution in der Schweiz bekannt zu machen, haben wir entschieden das SwissTeam zu initiieren.
* EN -- Out of all the distribution RetoSchafer and I tested; Ubuntu is the one which persuaded us through simplicity and stability. To promote this distribution in Switzerland , we initiated the SwissTeam.

=== Contact - Kontakt - Contact ===

pierre@ubuntulinux.ch
----
CategoryHomepage
