{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''DRAFT:  for discussion'''

If an update makes it into the archive that will break those individuals doing daily updates, please help us contain the damage until a fix can be found and applied.   After an update and if you notice an issue:
** please let the PlusOneMaintenanceTeam know you're seeing an issue (#ubuntu+1-maint on Freenode).
** if no PlusOneMaintenanceTeam members are around, post on #ubuntu-release and let a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-release|release team member]]</nowiki> know that an issue has being seen.

Once a bug is confirmed,  a '''bug number''' for tracking should be established.  PlusOneMaintenanceTeam member or release team member will notify the appropriate development team (ideally the development lead and/or the defect analyst).

Based on the severity of symptoms shown,  wider communication to let folks know to hold off on doing upgrades for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Importance|critical bugs]]</nowiki> may be appropriate until the issue can be resolved through either a package rollback or fix.  If the bug is of critical severity,  PlusOneMaintenanceTeam member or <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-release|release team member]]</nowiki> should:
** post in #ubuntu+1 the bug number of known issue,  topic should be updated to reflect known problem.
** Make sure appropriate team lead and/or defect analyst for the team is notified and aware of bug number by posting in #ubuntu-devel.
** decide if notification up on http://identi.ca/ubuntustatus is appropriate, and work with release team member to get posted if necessary.

PlusOneMaintenanceTeam should work with development team to resolve in the archive, and release team to respin daily images if necessary.

When issue has been resolved, and updates are safe again.
** clear notification from topic of #ubuntu+1 channel.
** if http://identi.ca/ubuntustatus was used,  please post that the daily images are safe to upgrade from.
