{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== +1 Maintenance Status ==

=== Proposed Migration ===

* https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/proposed-migration/update_excuses.html

* https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/proposed-migration/update_output.txt

* Build failures: http://qa.ubuntuwire.com/ftbfs/

* Last test rebuild (may be out of date): https://people.canonical.com/~doko/ftbfs-report/test-rebuild-20200327-focal-focal.html

=== Known issues ===

=== In progress ===

Items that are being actively worked on. Please always mention the name / irc nick, who is working on that.

* [rbalint] Switch Britney hints to git <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~rbalint/britney/hints-ubuntu-bzr-to-git/+merge/386139|review]]</nowiki>

=== Things to pick from ===

These are issues that are not yet done, after somebody's rotation/shift ended.
Or someone has spotted them but had no chance to work on it.
If someone trying to pick them realized that it was resolved by time/someone-else please be so kind and remove the related entries.

* Ongoing transitions
** there are plenty of rust packages stuck in -proposed.  Unfortunately the rust packages we sync from Debian are not generally in a consistent state allowing migration (to Debian testing or to the Ubuntu release).  If  someone takes a look at these, they will probably want to recommend removals of various leaf packages blocking transitions.
** rust-* some test and many "unsatisfiable depends", one needs to check how this was meant to work ...
*** the rust packages only build if uploaded in a very precise order, which they were to debian but the debian import freeze messes this up for us
*** it's not clear that any of these packages help users of Ubuntu at all, so putting effort into these packages has a low ROI IMO (I == mwhudson)
** autopkgtest for r-cran-* is in excuses quite often, this needs to be checked and probably custom test triggers (there also is a whopping 1.8k r-cran-* tests in http://autopkgtest.ubuntu.com/running atm)
** perl micro update 5.30.3 - On Monday there was another upload of 5.30.3-4 and someone overzealously removed all perl tests. Cpaelzer/xnox/Laney re-triggered the tests the results ahve to be re-checked.

* Not ready yet
