{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Peter Matulis ==
=== About me ===

I live in Montreal, Canada and I am mostly interested in Server applications and Server documentation.  I can usually be found on the following IRC channels:

* #ubuntu-server
* #ubuntu-doc

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''IRC'''
| pmatulis
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:petermatulis]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

===== IRC operator on #ubuntu-server =====

I became an IRC operator on #ubuntu-server in September 2011.

===== Member of Ubuntu Documentation Committers team =====

I became a member of ubuntu-core-doc in November 2011.

===== Ubuntu Server Guide =====

* I have been the driver for the Ubuntu Server Guide project since the Ubuntu 12.04 cycle (leadership, promotion)
* I review contributions and commit code changes to the master branches (since 2011)
* I triage Guide bugs and actively contribute to the Guide (since 2011)

===== help.ubuntu.om =====

I sometimes assist with making changes on help.ubuntu.com infrastructure pages but most of my work on help is publishing the Server Guide.

=== Links ===

<nowiki>[[pmatulis-testimonials | Testimonials]]</nowiki> for the different Ubuntu thingies I have requested to be a part of.
