{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


 ''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:pm-utils-integration
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Notes ===

''Notes from meeting at UDS-Boston 2007-10-30 chaired by mjg59.''

Current Ubuntu infrastructure:
* acpi-support "bunch of shell scripts"
** downside: files live in /etc/acpi-support/* so are conf files
** Suspend/Hibernate regressions per release

Current Fedora infrastructure:
* pm-utils: HAL/FDI file based
** Can download files from a website that might fix your machine
* Already in Debian and synced over.

Plan:
* Port `acpi-supports` quirks over to `pm-utils`
* Release-note change-over for those running funky (eg. server-only)
* pm-utils to be included in main
* HAL scripts to be updated to call pm-utils (may already be done)
* fix up `pmi` (powermanager-interface) for backwards compatibility
* Replace acpi-support conffiles with empty stubs "This doesn't do anything"
* acpi-support will still be around for sending key events

Why:
* Use the same "standardised" infrastructure as Fedora.
** More testing. 

Dependancies:
* Change Ubuntu-base to bring in `pm-utils`.
* `acpi-support` will stick around.
* `acpi-support` needs to depend on `pm-utils` to carry on providing equivalent functionality.

Future:
* ACPI->keycode mapping will be done in-kernel in the future.
* rf_kill being moved to mixture of kernel and network-manager.
* Docking handled in kernel
* Brightness handled by gnome-power-manager/KDE equivalent.
* Tablet rotation, kernel event (KEY_ROTATE) and gnome-settings-daemon

Other:
* Needs hotplug PNP support (serial port on docking station for X60s)
* Video switching: gnome-settings-daemon -> xrandr --auto (RANDR 2.0).
* Define extra kernel keycodes (eg. Trackpad toggle)

=== Summary ===

This should provide an overview of the issue/functionality/change proposed here. Focus here on what will actually be DONE, summarising that so that other people don't have to read the whole spec.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
