{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Project Name ==

== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' Closed

 '''Type:''' Approved

 '''Last updated on:''' Monday, June 25th, 2007

 '''Location:''' Old Town Pizza

 '''Links:''' http://oldtownpizza.com/ 

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
Team building, socializing not to mention just plain old good manners (being hospitable).

=== Mission ===
Advocacy

=== Objectives ===
* Have fun
* Eat Pizza
* Meet people
* Have fun
* Eat Pizza

=== Communication Plan ===
Email Loco teams list, PDX, PLUG, PNW, Oregon, and Washington team lists.

 '''Project Lead:''' ''DanShufelt''

 '''Project Team:''' ''Place your name here and contact the team lead to get involved''

 '''Meeting Details:''' ''July 23rd @ ~5:40 PM – Whenever''

=== Quality Management Plan ===
Pizza will under go regression and ad-hock testing by trained professionals

== Project Outline and Scope ==
* Plan
* Project kickoff
** Order Pizza
** Commence pre-release regression testing of pizza
*** Document results
*** Discuss findings
** Ad-hock testing of pizza
*** Document results
*** Discuss findings
** Make minor adjustments to order
*** Re-run tests
*** Document results
*** Discuss findings

== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| Complete
| Create Flier
| DanShufelt
| Monday, June 25th, 2007
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PNWTeam/projects/ULPizzaSocial?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=flier.odt|Flier]]</nowiki>
|-
| Complete
| Send Notification
| DanShufelt
| Monday, June 25th, 2007
| email addresses sent to
|-
| Complete
| Make Reservations
| DanShufelt
| Monday, July 10th, 2007
| ''(503)222-9999''
|-
| Complete
| Start the party
| Group Effort Needed
| Monday, July 23rd, 2007
| Participation needed
|}

== Notes ==
We had a good pizza eating time!  About with 7 attendees, 4 large pizzas, a few pitchers of root beer and a few pitchers of real beer.

There was some awesome conversation about community development!

== Issues ==
Free Pizza does not much of a competition for free beer...  A free beer/free speech event was announced Monday afternoon.

Reservations were botched but Old Town Pizza made everything work with out any trouble.

The font Comic Sans was used on the flier...  Apparently this is not well accepted by the community (see videos of keynote speakers for further details).

== Postmortem ==
Over all a great time thanks to the attendees.  In the future perhaps we should look at adding such events to some sort of official announcement board.  Also, remembering to confirm reservations are set correctly will be essential going forward.
