{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Project Name ==

== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' New

 '''Type:''' Proposed

 '''Last updated on:''' May 20th, 2007

 '''Location:''' Shoreline Library

 '''Links:'''

  <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=36|Project discussion and feedback]]</nowiki>

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
We want to help people install and configure Free/ Opensource software, and promote its use.(especially Ubuntu)

=== Mission ===
This is inline with our team goals because we are helping users install and configure ubuntu as well as telling people about what Ubuntu is.

=== Objectives ===
* Spread ubuntu...

=== Communication Plan ===
Team will utilize our mailing list ''(ubuntu-us-pnw@lists.ubuntu.com)'' and associated <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=36|forum site]]</nowiki> for communication.  PNW team meeting can be called if needed.

 '''Project Lead:''' ''Paul Bartell''

 '''Project Team:''' ''..''

 '''Meeting Details:''' ''Not scheduled yet''

=== Quality Management Plan ===
Then general consensus of the PNWTeam will have to approve of the changes before this project is closed. 

== Project Outline and Scope ==
Something will go here soon.
  
== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| ''Done'
| ''Find a place to have the fest''
| ''Paul Bartell''
| ''May 25th, 2007''
| ''Submitted a request for the "large meeting room" at the Shoreline KCLS library. currently waiting for confirmation email (will be sent in 3 buisness days) EDIT, we got it approved.'
|-
| Not started
| track equipment
| Please assume ownership
| ~ June 16
| 
|-
| complete
| Flyer
| Many team members
| now
| the flyer is at the following places: <nowiki>[[http://paulbartell.com/mirror/UbuntuInstallFestSeattle.pdf|PDF]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://paulbartell.com/mirror/UbuntuInstallFestSeattle.odt|ODT]]</nowiki>
|}

== Notes ==
''None at ths time''

== Issues ==
''None at this time''

== Postmortem ==
''Pending''
