{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== GSLUG Revival Meeting ==

== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' New

 '''Type:''' Proposed

 '''Last updated on:''' June 25th, 2007

 '''Location:''' Suzzallo Library, UW campus

 '''Links:'''
  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PNWTeam/projects/GSLUGMeeting/Agenda|Agenda]]</nowiki> | 
  <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=245|Project discussion and feedback]]</nowiki>

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
We want to help get the GSLUG back on its feet after nearly a year of inactivity.

=== Mission ===
To help spread the interest in Linux and have a group were people can come and learn more/get help with it.

=== Objectives ===
* Restart GSLUG

=== Communication Plan ===
Team will utilize our mailing list ''(ubuntu-us-pnw@lists.ubuntu.com)'' and associated <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=245|forum site]]</nowiki> for communication.  PNW team meeting can be called if needed.

 '''Project Lead:''' ''William Hale''

 '''Project Team:''' ''..''

 '''Details:''' ''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PNWTeam/projects/GSLUGMeeting/Agenda|Meeting Agenda]]</nowiki>''

=== Quality Management Plan ===
Then general consensus of the PNWTeam will have to approve of the changes before this project is closed. 

== Project Outline and Scope ==
Something will go here soon.
  
== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| ''Complete'
| ''Find a place to have the fest''
| ''William Hale''
| ''June 22, 2007''
| ''Submitted a request for the "large study room" at the Suzzallo library.''
|}

== Notes ==
''None at ths time''

== Issues ==
''None at this time''

== Postmortem ==
''Pending''
