{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== User Support Project Overview ==
So far all members of the PNWTeam have expressed an interest in providing user support.  This is a place where we can jot down how we would like to go about providing support as a team.

=== Problem Statement ===
The PNWTeam would like to provide support to Ubuntu users.

=== Mission ===
Create a web based user friendly method for users to submit and track requests for support

=== Objectives ===
* Gather user contact information and issue description
* Provide a way for team members to add notes regarding the issue
* Design an escalation path
* Confirm issue resolution

== Project Scope ==
* User Input Form
** Name, email, Ubuntu Version, and Issue Description
* Provide a status method
** New, Escalated, Pending, Resolved, and Work-In-Progress
* Provide a way of looking up the issue (a method for users to see issue status / progress)
* Issue owner
** Team Member or Unassigned
* Track Escalation progress (associated URL or ID number?)
* Summarize the solution for reporting / statistical information

== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Description
| Owner
| Estimated Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| Research Possibilities
| DanShufelt
| 10/30/2006
| Decided a forum such as PHPBB would be an easy solution.
|-
| Draft a Process Flow Chart
| DanShufelt
| 08/30/2006
| Assistance will be offered through forum when requested
|-
| Choose Best Method
| PNWTeam
| 12/31/2006
| The entire team should have a voice in this
|}

== Project Notes / Ideas ==
* It's up and appears to be running.  If you have ideas please email the team or post them in the forum for further discussion.
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
