{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Related'''<<BR>>
|}

== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' Work in progress

 '''Type:''' Ongoing

 '''Last updated on:''' February 16th, 2007

 '''Location:''' <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum]]</nowiki>

 '''Links:'''

  <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=7|Project discussion and feedback]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://www.phpbb.com/|PHP Bulletin Board Homepage]]</nowiki>

  <nowiki>[[http://www.phpbb.com/mods/|PHPBB Mods]]</nowiki>

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
Leverage forum software to provide better user support and project discussion.

=== Mission ===
Supplement team wiki pages.

=== Objectives ===
* Improve site appearance
* Improve usability
* Analise current and possible Mods

=== Communication Plan ===
Team will utilize our mailing list ''(ubuntu-us-pnw@lists.ubuntu.com)'' and associated <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=7|forum site]]</nowiki> for for communication.  PNW team meeting can be called if needed.

 '''Project Lead:''' DanShufelt

 '''Project Team:''' ''..''

 '''Meeting Details:''' There are no project meetings scheduled at this time.

=== Quality Management Plan ===
Then general consensus of the PNWTeam will have to approve of the changes before this project is closed. 

== Project Outline and Scope ==
* Improve Appearance
** Change Logo
** Add links to key PNW wiki pages and mailing list 
** Create theme

* Improve Usability
** Add Avatar feature
** Implement RSS feature
** Analise currently installed features and modifications
** Analise available features and modifications

* Project closing
** Verify team approval
** Postmortem documentation
** Send closing email
  
== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| Completed
| Change Logo
| DanShufelt
| February 16th, 2007
| Switch PHPBB logo to PNWTeam logo.
|-
| Pending
| Add resource links
| DanShufelt
| Estimated completion date March 10th, 2007
| Add link to PNWTeam Homepage and wiki.
|-
| Pending
| Update forum's theme
| ''Place name here''
| Pending
| Create a PHPBB theme that matches our <nowiki>[[http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org/|website's theme]]</nowiki>.
|-
| Complete
| Turn on Avatar feature
| DanShufelt
| February 16th, 2007
| Enabled an avatar archive...  Users now have avatars to choose from and can upload personal avatars if desired.
|-
| Pending
| Implement RSS feature ''(if available)''
| DanShufelt
| Estimated completion date March 10th, 2007
| Install and enable an RSS feature if available.
|-
| Complete
| Analyze currently installed features
| DanShufelt/Paul Bartell
| March 10th, 2007
| <nowiki>[[http://www.SpellCow.com]]</nowiki> add-on was modified so it stops automatically running spell check.
|-
| Pending
| Analyze available modifications and features
| ''Place name here''
| Pending
| This task would be best carried out by several people.
|}

== Notes ==
Running phpBB 2.0.21 with Easy Admin
Only <nowiki>[[http://www.SpellCow.com]]</nowiki> add-on is installed as of February 16th, 2007

''<<< Mail message snippet >>>''

'''From:''' 	Paul David Bartell <paul.bartell@gmail.com>

'''To:''' 	dshufelt@gmail.com

'''Subject:''' 	Re: Ubuntu PNW Foum

'''Date:''' 	Thu, 31 Aug 2006 12:03:50 -0700

there is also a calender mod at

http://www.phpbb.com/phpBB/viewtopic.php?t=150857

''<<< End of snippet >>>''

== Issues ==
''None at this time''

== Postmortem ==
''Pending''
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
