{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Related'''<<BR>>
|}

== Web Page Project Overview ==
This page was created to encourage participation by allowing anyone to quickly view the project status and outstanding tasks.  At this point in time feel free to add ideas, tasks or anything else you think may be useful.

If we incorporate as many ideas as possible, I think we'll all have a better chance of making something we are all excited to be a part of.

=== Problem Statement ===
The PNWTeam needs a homepage that will generate excitement about the teams’ activities and spread the spirit of Ubuntu.

=== Mission ===
Give the PNWTeam a face to show the world by making a homepage with a great look and feel.

=== Objectives ===
* Provides a user friendly look and feel 
* Generate a method for users to request and track support from team members
* Include information such as scheduled meetings and events

== Project Scope ==
* Main page
** Team calendar
** Team events
** General team information

* Support (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PNWTeam-UserSupport|Associated Project Details]]</nowiki>)
** User help request form
** User confirmation / tracking method
** Team member update / collaboration

* Team forum
** Message Board / Forum for team to keep on going discussions about projects, concerns and events

* Team Project Board
** Devise some method or process to track current project status' by listing project information as well as the teams plan of attack and a task / owner / estimated delivery date

== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Description
| Owner
| Estimated Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| Create PNWTeam Logo
| <nowiki>[[mailto:mike@midcolumbia.net|Mike Nelson]]</nowiki>
| 12/30/2006
| complete! Thanks to Mike this was delivered 8/2006
|-
| Get Domain Name
| DanShufelt
| 07/26/2006
| complete! pnw.ubuntu-us.org
|-
| Choose Site Infrastructure
| DanShufelt
| 07/26/2006
| complete! 500MB of diskspace, cgi, mysql, php
|-
| Secure Permanente Webhosting
| DanShufelt
| 07/26/2006
| complete! hosting provided by Ubuntu
|-
| Create Temp Homepage
| Dan Shufelt
| 08/15/2006
| Completed back in August but short lived
|-
| Create/Find Site artwork
| none
| 12/30/2006
| Closed task as it is unnecessary.  The current page looks good.
|-
| Site Style Sheet
| Paul Bartell
| 12/30/2006
| Completed for http://pnw.ubuntu-us.org
|-
| Create Permanent Homepage
| Paul Bartell
| 10/31/2006
| This task will likely need to be divided in to several other tasks after the team has a chance to discuss the page and features that will be available, Update:The Website is done, im sure we could add many more feature if they will be used.
|}

== Project Notes / Ideas ==
* Get more ideas and initiate team collaboration
----
CategoryLoCoTeams
