{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Approval Application for Polish Team (ubuntu-pl) ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.85em; border: none; width: 100%; background-color: #f1f1ed; font-weight: bold;"> <nowiki>[[LoCoTeams|Home]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamList|Teams List]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamJoining|Join a Team]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamHowto|Start a LoCo Team!]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamMentoring|Team Mentoring]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoFAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[LoCoTeamContacts|Contacts]]</nowiki>
|}

The Polish Team can be currently seen as not very active. Reasons of this situation were sent by email to Nick Ali & loco-council and will not be discussed here because of privacy reasons. Most of the time we are organizing events as part of Polish Linux Users Group (or it's divisions - like Cracow Linux Users Group and others). We are doing this to avoid duplicate efforts and to integrate the Linux community further instead of dividing it because of the distros used by users.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - ''23th June 2008''
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DariuszDuma|Dariusz Duma]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AzraelNightwalker|Przemysław Kulczycki]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership''' - 458 @ lists.ubuntu.com, 56 @ google groups, currently 10 active
* '''Mailing List''' - <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-pl|ubuntu-pl on lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.pl/group/ubuntu-pl-loco/|ubuntu-pl-loco at googlegroups.com]]</nowiki> (first is used for support, second for Ubuntu marketing talk)
* '''IRC''' - used to be #ubuntu.pl on Freenode, now unused
* '''Wiki''' - PolishTeam, PolishDocumentation
* '''Launchpad page''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-pl

=== Roadmap ===

* Further collaboration with Polish Linux Users Group - http://www.linux.org.pl

=== Experience ===

Our activities:

* ''Software Freedom Day 2009'' - 17th of October 2009 - http://clug.org.pl/sfd2009/
* Sent over 200 Ubuntu CDs to various Polish LUGs to support their efforts in 2008.
* Software Freedom Day 2008 - 18th Oct 2008
** http://picasaweb.google.pl/przemekkulczycki/SFD2008 http://krakow.sfd.org.pl/
* A stall and a presentation at <nowiki>[[http://sfi.org.pl/|Academic IT Festival]]</nowiki> in Cracow - 6-8th March 2008
** photos: http://picasaweb.google.pl/przemekkulczycki/SFI2008
* <nowiki>[[http://krakow.sfd.org.pl|Software Freedom Day 2007]]</nowiki> - 15th September 2007
** photos: http://picasaweb.google.pl/przemekkulczycki/SFD2007
* We've sent ~600 Ubuntu CDs (6.10, 7.04, 7.10) to <nowiki>[[http://fwioo.pl|Free and Open Software Foundation]]</nowiki> to help their <nowiki>[[http://wioowszkole.org/|Free Software in Schools]]</nowiki> project - March, October 2007
* We've distributed ~300 Ubuntu CDs (5.10, 6.06) to students of University of Economics in Cracow - October 2006
** photos: http://picasaweb.google.pl/przemekkulczycki/UbuntuAtAE
