{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Poom Kongniratsaikul ===
* '''Location''': Germany and Thailand
* '''Blog''': http://www.longspine.com
* '''Interest''': Robotics, Reliability, Mechatronics Dependability
* '''Email/Jabber''': poomkongniratsaikul@gmail.com

==== 2007 ====
Hi, I'm a programmer living in Thailand. I have a plan to continue my study abroad in the field of Robotics and Automations. Ubuntu has shown me that it's one of the best distros for robotics development. However all of my project partners prefer WindowsXP and Visual Studio.NET. Most of our works were based on proprietary software and hardware.

Those software and hardware caused us many problems, especially when we were trying to use a video capture device to get vision data but it appeared that the capture card didn't support OpenCV (or even DirectX) but their own software. Buying a new industrial-grade product could sometimes help us to continue our research. However that approach is impossible for researches that have low budget.

I believe that open standard and OSS would solve these problems. Therefore encouraging people to use free software is important. A local Thai ubuntu community, <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuclub.com|ubuntuclub]]</nowiki> is one of the strongest linux communities and it has been promoting Ubuntu to Thai people for quite some time. It would be great if it could be promoted as an approved <nowiki>[[LoCo]]</nowiki>.

==== 2011 ====
<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuclub.com|ubuntuclub]]</nowiki> has been promoted to an approved <nowiki>[[LoCo]]</nowiki> since a while and now the wiki has a prettier interface. Sadly that now I'm working in Germany and are note active in the community at all. 

Ubuntu has been improved A LOT since the last few years, especially in the interfaces and compatibility. But still there's one thing that is not yet solved, is the localisation issue. There are still issues that some apps always choose US English first, and sometimes they even crash if US English is not set as one of the system languages. Some programs do not accept comma (',') as a decimal symbol instead of decimal point ('.'), etc. These kinds of problems cannot be solved by any single LoCo team, but has to be executed by a well-planned policy and some bravery to deal with other communities. The recent collision between Ubuntu Unity and the Gnome community did show us some good promises.
