{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/portable-gfxboot
* '''Created''':  by ColinWatson
* '''Contributors''': ColinWatson
* '''Packages affected''': gfxboot, syslinux?, grub?, lilo?, yaboot?

=== Summary ===

Make `gfxboot` portable to non-x86 architectures and to modern x86 systems with limited BIOS compatibility.

=== Rationale ===

In Dapper, we added gfxboot to our amd64 and i386 CD images, providing a friendly graphical boot menu as the first thing users see when booting Ubuntu CD images on those architectures. Unfortunately, gfxboot is currently a huge pile of x86 assembly, and cannot be ported to other architectures (such as powerpc) without a total rewrite; furthermore it relies on the x86 BIOS and VGA so it won't work on Intel-based Macs without Boot Camp. The assembly aspect also makes it hard to add new features such as different behaviour on laptops and desktops.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

Research the feasibility of gradually rewriting the architecture-independent parts of gfxboot, chiefly the language interpreter, in C, preferably with the co-operation of upstream (Su``SE). It will then be possible to support other systems with a much smaller amount of work.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
