{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Portia Stephen, apply for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Portia Stephens
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://www.launchpad.net/~portias
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/portias
|}

== Who I Am ==
My name is Portia Stephens and I'm a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team. I help maintain a variety of Ubuntu kernels and related packages in accordance with our <nowiki>[[StableReleaseUpdates|Stable Release Updates Cycle]]</nowiki>. I maintain the linux-xilinx-zynqmp stable kernels as well as working with Xilinx to enable new platforms. I also contribute to stable upstream updates to the -generic kernels.

== My Ubuntu Story ==
My first experience with Linux and Ubuntu was in University around 2010 on my Dell XPS. Out of the box, the screen flickered and the trackpad didn't work and I had my first experience with Nvidia linux drivers :) Since then I have always used some flavor of Linux for my personal computer, including a system 76 machine for a period of time.

I have spent my career working on bare-metal and embedded Linux for automotive and medical devices before joining Canonical. 

=== My Involvement ===
During my time at Canonical, I've worked in a variety of areas including: hardware enablement and stable upstream updates. I have worked with Xilinx to enable Kria and ZCU platforms in the linux-xilinx-zynqmp kernel for Focal, Jammy, and Noble (in progress). I am the maintainer for all linux-xilinx kernels. I have been responsible for about half of the stable upstream updates since January `24 and have sent updates to Focal, Jammy, and Mantic. 

=== Activity ===
https://bugs.launchpad.net/~portias

=== Sponsoring ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Date'''
| '''Sponsor'''
| '''Sponsoree'''
| '''Package'''
| '''Version'''
| '''Distribution'''
|-
| 2023-07-17 00:49
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Portia Stephens
| linux-kvm
| 5.15.0-1038.43
| jammy
|-
| 2023-07-17 01:03
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.15.0.1038.34
| jammy
|-
| 2023-07-17 01:04
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.15.0-1038.43
| jammy
|-
| 2023-11-27 02:53
| Dimitri John Ledkov
| Portia Stephens
| linux-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0-1047.51~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2023-11-27 06:01
| Dimitri John Ledkov
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-riscv-5.15
| 5.15.0.1047.51~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-01-16 05:44
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-gke
| 5.15.0-1049.54
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-16 05:48
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-gke
| 5.15.0-1049.54
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-16 05:49
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-gke
| 5.15.0.1049.48
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-18 23:50
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-gke
| 5.15.0-1050.55
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-18 23:54
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-gke
| 5.15.0.1050.49
| jammy
|-
| 2024-01-18 23:56
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-gke
| 5.15.0-1050.55
| jammy
|-
| 2022-11-15 23:37
| Jesse Sung
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1019.22
| focal
|-
| 2022-11-16 05:21
| Jesse Sung
| Portia Stephens
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1019.22
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 01:26
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Portia Stephens
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1095.101
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 02:28
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1095.90
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-13 02:30
| Luke Nowakowski-Krijger
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1095.101
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-25 04:44
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-kvm
| 5.4.0-1096.102
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-25 05:04
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-kvm
| 5.4.0.1096.91
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-25 05:05
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-kvm
| 5.4.0-1096.102
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-27 19:30
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1027.31
| focal
|-
| 2023-07-27 19:38
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1027.29
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 02:45
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-aws
| 5.4.0-1119.129
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 03:12
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-aws
| 5.4.0.1119.116
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 03:14
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-aws
| 5.4.0-1119.129
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 03:15
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-restricted-modules-aws
| 5.4.0-1119.129
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 03:15
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Portia Stephens
| linux-restricted-signatures-aws
| 5.4.0-1119.129
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 04:22
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-ibm
| 5.4.0-1066.71
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 05:04
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.4.0.1066.95
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-12 05:05
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.4.0-1066.71
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-15 04:01
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-iot
| 5.4.0-1031.32
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-15 04:18
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-iot
| 5.4.0.1031.29
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-15 04:19
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-iot
| 5.4.0-1031.32
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-20 05:54
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-ibm
| 5.4.0-1067.72
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-20 05:56
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-ibm
| 5.4.0.1067.96
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-20 05:58
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-ibm
| 5.4.0-1067.72
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-20 23:32
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-aws
| 5.4.0-1120.130
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-21 00:30
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-aws
| 5.4.0.1120.117
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-21 00:31
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-aws
| 5.4.0-1120.130
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-21 00:32
| Ubuntu Kernel Ancillary Bot
| Portia Stephens
| linux-restricted-signatures-aws
| 5.4.0-1120.130
| focal
|-
| 2024-02-21 00:31
| Philip Cox
| Portia Stephens
| linux-restricted-modules-aws
| 5.4.0-1120.130
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-12 04:20
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1040.44
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-12 04:29
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1040.40
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 05:41
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Portia Stephens
| linux-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1054.60~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 05:56
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0.1054.60~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 22:21
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1054.60~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-19 22:24
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Portia Stephens
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1054.60~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-21 22:57
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0-1041.45
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-22 03:56
| Manuel Diewald
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-xilinx-zynqmp
| 5.4.0.1041.41
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-25 23:43
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.61~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-26 00:28
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-meta-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0.1055.61~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-26 00:29
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.61~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2024-03-26 00:30
| Roxana Nicolescu
| Portia Stephens
| linux-signed-oracle-5.15
| 5.15.0-1055.61~20.04.1
| focal
|}

                                                                                                                                                                  

                                                                                                  
=== Upload Rights ===
I'm requesting upload rights for the kernel package set for all active series, which includes all the "linux*" packages.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

== Endorsements ==

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Philip Cox ===
==== General feedback ====

I have reviewed a small number of kernel cranks by Portia, which included a security cycle, and a regular cycle.  The cranks were correct, and were well done.  Even though I've only reviewed a small number of kernel cranks by Portia, from the ones I have reviewed, I would trust her to know when to seek guidance on trickeier cranks, and be able to handle the remaining of them on her own correctly.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

None that I can think of.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=MVtW
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Roxana Nicolescu (roxanan) ===
==== General feedback ====
Portia has been preparing kernels for a few cycles now (both security and sru). She came with a lot of knowledge from her experience developing and maintaining hwe kernels (xilinx) and that for sure helped her quickly learn how to prepare public kernels for our cycles. She's been doing a great job and I fully trust she is gonna continue to do so.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=WqF5
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Manuel Diewald (diewald) ===
==== General feedback ====
I have reviewed some of the kernel packages that Portia prepared for regular SRU as well as security cycles. All of the packages had been prepared properly and carefully. I am confident that Portia will continue to produce correct kernel packages and to have gathered enough experience to be able to judge when to reach out for feedback on a particular crank. Therefore, I trust Portia to upload kernel packages directly to the archive.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQIzBAEBCgAdFiEEfiwIK8Bxx+qw8pSyuvL3+R/lFUsFAmX9fUcACgkQuvL3+R/l
FUu6/A//Q8x0pBRa3ziKPgMgS96U6NVWgz3gZktiNi+DpzoKnlwuw14iCS/1bk49
ePfHQk6sH2vP5hB9btw/kW4CmBpLGo3gbJuqCzDMqOfE2vqJNCbZ3+edmY5XeQIR
p+yvQszwZDmI8+iYSUIdtfbxigm1Whqmf43gnWIEPk42C1sbfTh7udOLdQ6mUThd
xBSpLakyB6vViHGnIRYN+X/QLA/8qQSnhoeijIC3HxCppC2AUWgG/Pz+3Z7KsWu+
ARtg4sDv/nSGF7S0NtqOjicBqQVgRWcBBYD3mtL8VPtzwoJ4z8nUGe/SEnjPVyZK
yn8OyJexia1kUVyeF4j9paLRdN6ha/qB15nur9/x8OqDtcNwNmZfeaWzrZo9XzxJ
713+g/9dom4xXDfSA2Vs/Oh9wPJiV+5y2++2v1o2UID70do9hJOKl5UQRfcNpUkw
frAFXQ9UqdVAiCnZF6XsoCCNmEhtW0mzuSuiLz+WbnOkKxo69dLzqXdlzxffWMNk
4TM1w/srhHr/UvCCIUvIelU+Y3xt1e+pucT80JAate99CXXLRhFvkma8ic6v+lgw
PVmiNwKHgFUw68c9KuA7Skv09Fx2p8pQb827Or0r9sA9BzeQ6BvQl1YnKMxx3p00
PJVWakKTGxjQYC16ggl/m3AUi3qNeQPauPqRz35F/RCMM/5Hi3Y=
=BSOR
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
