{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Install the PostgreSQL server and database schema ====

Even if you have multiple users, you only need to install the PostgreSQL server on one machine.  You can install the PostgreSQL server on a proper server or you can even run it on a desktop or laptop machine.

<pre>
## apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib
</pre>

Choose one of the schema packages and install with apt-get

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks-schema-quickstart|postbooks-schema-quickstart]]</nowiki> (Recommended)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks-schema-empty|postbooks-schema-empty]]</nowiki>
** requires a lot of manual data entry to get started, but useful if you already have a lot of things like chart of accounts in a CSV file and you want to customize everything
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks-schema-demo|postbooks-schema-demo]]</nowiki>
** contains sample data, use this to explore the features of PostBooks before making any commitment to use it with your own business data

<pre>
## apt-get install postbooks-schema-quickstart
</pre>

Follow the instructions in the /usr/share/doc/postbooks-schema-quickstart/README.Debian file to load the schema into your database server.

==== Install the PostBooks GUI ====

<pre>
## apt-get install postbooks
</pre>

==== Run it for the first time ====

Launch the GUI from your menu system or using the shell:

<pre>
   $ postbooks
</pre>

See <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.org/docs/admin-and-setup|this page on the upstream web site]]</nowiki> to start configuring it.

==== Getting help ====

Functional/business issues can be discussed through the <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.org/forum|xTuple web forum]]</nowiki> as they are not specific to Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[http://xtupleuniversity.com/|xTuple University]]</nowiki> includes an extensive library of videos and other materials for getting started, tips & tricks, and more.

A wide range of <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.org/docs/product-guides|product guides]]</nowiki> is also available. Of these, the <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.org/sites/default/files/refguide/current/index.html|xTuple ERP Reference Guide]]</nowiki> is the most comprehensive, as it provides a field-level reference to the 650+ user interface screens in the xTuple client application.

For those needing <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.com/support-options|commercial support]]</nowiki>, this is available either directly from xTuple or through its <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.com/about/solutionproviders|extended partner network]]</nowiki>. A <nowiki>[[http://www.xtuple.com/cloud/|cloud hosting]]</nowiki> option is also available.
