{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Application Review Board Applications ==

The goal of this page is to provide a place where Ubuntu community members can apply to be a member of the new Application Review Board; a community-driven governance board that reviews new applications submitted. Details of the process are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PostReleaseApps/Process

Applicants of the board should possess some of the following skills:

* Strong experience of the Ubuntu platform and the desktop.
* Knowledge of packaging to effectively assess other people's packaging work for quality.
* Enough free time to commit to reviewing the applications and providing timely feedback.

As a bonus:

* You would be a core-dev or MOTU.
* A knowledge of programming, so as to perform a code review.

=== Applying For a Position On The Board ===

To apply to join the Application Review Board, please prepare a wiki page with your application with the following details:

<pre>

* Your Name: 
* Your Email: 
* Your Launchpad Profile: 

* Summary of your experience in Ubuntu:
** Experience
** Experience
** . . .

* What do you think you could bring to the Application Review Board?

</pre>

Now link your page below:

* YOUR NAME - Wiki Page
* Elliot Murphy - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElliotMurphy/ARB|application]]</nowiki>
* Shane Fagan - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/shanepatrickfagan/ARB|application]]</nowiki>
* Stéphane Graber - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stgraber/ARB|application]]</nowiki>
* Allison Randal - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AllisonRandal/ARB|application]]</nowiki>
* Andrew Mitchell - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndrewMitchell/ARB|application]]</nowiki>

The deadline for submissions is '''31st Aug 2010'''.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PostReleaseApps/Process
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PostReleaseApps/Process#Application%20Review%20Board%20Codification
