{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== 1st Meeting of the Ubuntu Power User Community ==
=== Meeting Time ===
The date for the meeting was <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20110526T17|Thursday, May 26, 2011 at 17:00:00 UTC]]</nowiki> in <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-meeting|#ubuntu-meeting]]</nowiki> in the Freenode IRC Network.

=== Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#d9bb7a; font-weight: bold">Who
| What
| When
|-
| <nowiki>[[MikeBasinger|Technoviking]]</nowiki>
| Organization of the team (Set a meeting time, etc...)
| 26 May
|-
| <nowiki>[[MikeBasinger|Technoviking]]</nowiki>
| Team Logo/Branding
| 26 May
|-
| <nowiki>[[MikeBasinger|Technoviking]]</nowiki>
| Overall team goals and purpose
| 26 May
|-
| <nowiki>[[MikeBasinger|Technoviking]]</nowiki>
| Long Term Goals
| 26 May
|-
| <nowiki>[[MikeBasinger|Technoviking]]</nowiki>
| Goals for Oneiric Cycle
| 26 May
|}

=== Log ===
<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/26/%23ubuntu-meeting.html|Full log of the meeting]]</nowiki>

== Meeting Summary ==
=== Vision ===
Our goal is to help power users to get the most out of Ubuntu. We want to provide a place for power users to communicate, document configuration functionality, and provide tools for tweaking the system. Basically, we want to give users the power to expand, adjust, and tweak their system.

=== Goals ===
Documentation of Tweaks and useful tools, with a mind toward safety. We don't want to suggest tweaks that could cause issues for a user and can not be backed out of.

=== Actionable items ===
==== Tools ====
We will focus on making Ubuntu Tweak ready for Oneiric, and push it into the repositories. The next version of Ubuntu Tweak will have a plugin feature, so the problematic PPA part of the program can be a separate install in the next version. First we need to focus on getting the code in shape. It needs some analysis for safety and stability. The packaging will fall into place pretty easily once that is done.

==== Documentation ====
A good set of documentation on Unity would be great. Keyboard shortcuts, what options exist and what they actually do. We already have many information on Ask Ubuntu, but Ask Ubuntu is not a documentation source. The power user wiki is a good place to centralize the docs, maybe get it into help.ubuntu.com at a later date. We want to make a https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerUsers/Documentation/UnityGuide page, to organize just the Unity info and make it an easy link to share.

==== Next Meeting ====
xdatap1 will set up a poll in doodle for checking in which timezone lives most of the members. The next meeting will be about in a month at #ubuntu-meeting.
