{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Since 7.04 Ubuntu, <nowiki>[[PowerPC]]</nowiki> downloads of Ubuntu are not available on all Ubuntu mirrors. Below you'll find links to the ISOs on the main Ubuntu server, as well as, help on finding mirrors.

{i} Please review the <nowiki>[[PowerPCFAQ|PowerPC FAQ]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[PowerPCKnownIssues|PowerPC Known Issues]]</nowiki> pages before installing.  All the information you need for a successful install should be in those pages, so make sure you check them out first before wasting your time and effort on needless internet searches. Please do tell somebody on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328|Apple forum]]</nowiki> if you think the instructions are unclear or are missing something, but it would be great if you could make the improvement yourself!

You may also wish to read the general <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

== Long-term support releases ==
=== 14.04 Trusty Tahr ===

==== Lubuntu (LTS, 3 years) ====
Desktop live install CD, alternate install CD

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/trusty/release/

==== Server (LTS, 5 years) ====

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/trusty/release/

==== Netboot/mini ====

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/trusty/

=== 12.04 Precise Pangolin ===

==== Ubuntu (LTS, 5 years) ====
Desktop live install CD, server install CD, alternate install CD, and preinstalled desktop image for various platforms

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/precise/release/

==== Kubuntu (LTS, 5 years) ====

Desktop live install CD, alternate install CD
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/precise/release/

==== Lubuntu ====
Desktop live install CD, alternate install CD

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/precise/release/

==== Xubuntu (LTS, 3 years) ====
Install via the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD|mini]]</nowiki>/alternate CDs following the instructions in the <nowiki>[[PowerPCFAQ|PowerPC FAQ]]</nowiki>.  

==== Netboot/mini ====

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/precise/

==== Netboot/mini ====

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/lucid/

== Other releases ==

==== Lubuntu ====
Desktop live install CD, alternate install CD

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/

==== Kubuntu ====
Desktop live install CD

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/

==== Server ====

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/

==== Netboot/mini ====

** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/

== Daily build of the current Ubuntu development release ==

The following iso's are available for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Procedures|testing]]</nowiki>.  In order for an iso to be released it must complete a series of test cases - volunteers are needed for this!  Please also <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs]]</nowiki> so that they get fixed prior to release.

==== Ubuntu MATE ====
** Live CD - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-mate/daily-live/current/

==== Lubuntu ====
** Live CD - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/
** Alternate CD - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily/current/

==== Ubuntu-Server ====
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/

==== Netboot/Mini ====
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/

== Old Releases ==

** http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/releases/

More specifically

** http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/releases/ports/releases/

== Mirrors ==

This is not an complete list (please add to it).  Using the list of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+cdmirrors|official CD mirrors]]</nowiki> and a bit of ingenuity traversing the mirror directory structures (for example, click on the <code>Parent Directory/</code> or <code>../</code> link) you can probably find more mirrors that contain PowerPC releases.  Most PowerPC ISOs are in a <code>ports</code> directory, but for others (e.g. 12.04) you can find them in the <code>releases</code> directory.  Daily development builds can be found with other architectures in the <code>daily/</code> (Alternate CD) or <code>daily-live/</code> (Desktop CD) directories.

Academic Computer Club, Umeå University, Sweden
* http://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/cdimage.ubuntu.com/

Silicon Hill, Czech Republic
* http://ftp.sh.cvut.cz/MIRRORS/ubuntu-cdimage/

University of Waterloo Computer Science Club, Canada
* http://mirror.csclub.uwaterloo.ca/ubuntu-ports-releases/

!LeaseWeb, United States
* http://mirror.us.leaseweb.net/ubuntu-cdimage/

Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
* http://ubuntu.mirror.tudos.de/ubuntu-dvd/ports/releases/

Internode, Australia
* http://mirror.internode.on.net/pub/
