{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.85em; width:300px; margin: 1em 0 1em 1em; padding: 8px; background:#F7F7F7":>
|}

== Get Involved! ==
Do you find defaults boring? Do you like to tweak your system? Do you have the power? The Ubuntu Power User Community is waiting for you! Join our <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-power-users|Launchpad group]]</nowiki>, subscribe to our <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-power-users|mailing list]]</nowiki> and join our <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=ubuntu-power-users|IRC channel]]</nowiki> and get involved!

=== Roadmap for 12.04 ===

You can read the roadmap for the 12.04 cycle <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerUsers/12.04RoadMap|over here]]</nowiki>. Comments are welcome, and if you want to discuss something feel free to head over to the mailing list and send an email, we don't bite, honest!
=== Meetings ===
* The Ubuntu Power User Community holds somewhat irregular meetings. See the <nowiki>[[PowerUsers-Meeting|Meeting]]</nowiki> page for details and agenda.

== Tasks ==
=== Help Developing our tool! ===
* Are you a Developer? Help us building the '''<nowiki>[[PowerUsers-PowerUserTool|Kitchen Sink]]</nowiki>''': a single application that supports multiple plug-in that provides you with a plethora of check-boxes for switching on and off all kinds of different things.

=== Build a quicklist ===
* Do you want to do something quickly? Then create a Quicklist for your favorite application following <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/32991/how-do-i-add-a-static-quicklist-that-opens-a-web-page|these instructions]]</nowiki> and share it with other Powers Users on <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/35488/list-of-custom-launchers-quicklists-for-unity|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki>. Don't forget to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerUsers/Quicklists|send it upstream]]</nowiki>!
