{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

* We need a power management interface to allow a GUI application to interact with power management in a consistent form, even though each platform currently presents an entirely different powermanagement layer.

* We also want the system to be able to notify apps when a power event occurs.
 
* It would be nice to be able to tie into <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/PowerManager|!PowerManager]]</nowiki> in the future.

* Or use perhaps GNOME Power Manager http://gnome-power.sourceforge.net/ with its DBUS and gconf backends?

=== Specification ===
 
* This interface needs to be able to parse config from all preexisting power management apps - pbbuttonsd, acpid, etc

* Must be able to blacklist events

* Must enable gnome etc to synthesize events so that, eg, flexiserver can suspend the machine.

* Preferably present a dbus API for querying capabilities, calling events, and sending events

* Packages must be able to register requirements to the power management system

* APM policy must move to userspace

* Proxy existing daemons so that their output goes to the PMI; pbbuttonsd has code to do this for PMU and APM, should be trivial to add ACPI.

==== Short term ====

* Use flexiserver to call events directly in the short term?
 
* Need to establish a list of PowerManagementSystemEvents for all power management styles to expose to PMI.
