{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:pppoeconf-gui
* '''Packages affected''': network-manager, gnome-system-tools

=== Summary ===

Currently, users who rely on a PPPOE connection to reach the Internet must use command-line tools to configure this connection. This process could be greatly simplified with a proper graphical configuration tool.

=== Release Note ===

It is now possible to set up a PPPOE connection from the network administration dialog.

=== Rationale ===

Desktop users expect to be able to configure their internet connection easily

=== Use Cases ===

* Daniel has a DSL Internet connection; he opens the network configuration dialog, selects the modem, enters his login and password and is connected to the Internet.

=== Implementation ===

* Teach network-manager to ignore pppoe connections
* Modify gnome-system-tools to allow configuring the connection (login, password); see <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=140408|upstream bug report]]</nowiki>
* I was thinking about the way pppoeconf goes like a wizard asking questions, and it came to mind that this is just what debconf do. Normally, all the only answer that I don't take default answers in pppoeconf are the user and passwords. It would just need to give that questions high(er) priorities. What's good with debconf, is that the interface can be kde, gnome, dialog, none. And it could just ask the questions if it detect pppoe is used. [Paul Dufresne]

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* Easy to detect (PADI/PADO/PADR/PADS/PADT packets on the ethernet)
** See the 'pppoe-discovery' binary (comes with ppp)
* Easy to set up (pppoeconf does this now, also detects the packets)
** Extending n-m to support PPPoE would mean that the live CD could come up with PPPoE immediately, rather than having to extend the installer to ask about it. Ubiquity would only need to copy over the resulting network configuration.
*** n-m should really pick up the PAD* bits and figure out PPPoE is available, then show a password dialog for the PPP username/password
* Isn't this spec a duplicate of DialUpSupport ? Or maybe it should be a part of it? -- AzraelNightwalker network-manager bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/107041
upstream: http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=362482 and http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=386461

----
CategorySpec
