{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I'm Prabhash Rajarathne From Kandy, Sri Lanka. I'm a full-time student. I found Ubuntu in  early in 2006. I used Ubuntu since 2006 as a home user. Currently I'm Contributing to spread Ubuntu and Open source Softwares around Central Province, Sri lanka.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~prabhash
|-
| Yahoo
| rprabhash
|-
| Skype
| r.prabhash
|-
| GTalk
| rprabhash
|-
| Email
| rprabhash.gmail.com
|-
| Website
| http:rprabhash.blogspot.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== Localizing ====
I'm Currently Supporting to Ubuntu Sinhala Localizing Team. This helps improve Sri Lankan Computer Literacy as well as speed up the Spread Ubuntu.

==== Training ====
I got a Golden chance to Training School teachers in Central Province. So I decide to introduce them about FOSS. so I'v Trained more than 100 Teachers how to use Open Source Softwares. and now they are training there students. actually now we have a massive School FOSS user network. 

=== Future Goals ===

I'm currently following BCS Professional Exams. and I'd like to learn more about FOSS. and my future ambition is to joining Ubuntu developing community.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.
