{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Who am I? ==
I'm just a normal 19 year old student from the small island of Sri Lanka. I've been using computers for more than a decade(through Windows); I've been using Linux since August 2007 and I've never looked back nor regretted it. My distro of choice(and indeed the introductory one) is Ubuntu and I really do like it, not only because of it's features or freedom, but mostly because of the excellent community it has. Another thing I like about Ubuntu is that it is(in my mind) a lot more customisable-friendly than other distros like Fedora or OpenSUSE.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| My contact details:-
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~pmdematagoda|Pramod Dematagoda]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=361835|PmDematagoda]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''PmDematagoda''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| pmd.lotr.gandalf at gmail com
|}

=== How am I contributing to the Ubuntu Community? ===

==== Support ====
{*} Ubuntu Forums ~ Ubuntu Forums Staff as a Moderator (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=361835|PmDematagoda]]</nowiki>)

{*} Launchpad(<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~pmdematagoda|Pramod Dematagoda]]</nowiki>) ~ By:- 
1. Answering support requests.
2. Doing Translations(not as much as support though).
3. Bug-reporting.

=== Testimonials ===

* PmD is a real pleasure to work with on the UF Staff team. Being one of the youngest there, he's shown much maturity dealing with moderation and helping new members. He has been a great addition to the Staff and should become an Ubuntu member without any question. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bapoumba|bapoumba]]</nowiki>.
* It has been a pleasure to work with PmD on the forum staff and the Beginners team. PmD is always helpful and takes time out of a busy schedule to help. Thanks <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/overdrank|overdrank]]</nowiki>
* Pramod is an uber geek in the community. (I thought he was around 35 years old when I first talked to him). A great dedicated fellow and a great person to talk to. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bhavi|Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki>
