{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} Name
| Prathamesh Kelaskar
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} Email
| prathamx@gmail.com
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} Email
| pratham_feca@yahoo.co.in
|-
| {{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} Launchpad Profile
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pratham-maverick|Prathamesh Kelaskar]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
Hi, I am Prathamesh. I am 24 years old and I am from India-Mumbai. I also work at Capgemini India outsourcing and Consultancy as Software Consultant in Drupal ( one of the best CMS in PHP ). 

I completed by graduation as Computer Engineer from University of Mumbai.I have lot of interest in playing and will like to develop game.

I like coding, learning new development technologies. and I love computer games and photography.

=== Me and Drupal ===
I have been working on Drupal from past 3 years. Drupal is highly flexible content management system.
With concept of hooks in drupal can achieve most of the difficult tasks in simple manners without changing
the core drupal system. Its really spreading drop of water from past few years and Drupal is future for
many web applications which are in Web 2.0. I have worked on Drupal 5, 6 and currently learning Drupal 7 
abstraction layers for development and customization.

=== Me and Linux ===

I am using Linux since last 7 years. I have used different flavors of linux like Redhat, Freebsd, Mac, Sun Solaris and using Ubuntu since release 7.10. I have also worked on few of the shell scripting programs and like to work on the same.
