{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi,

I am working with the master of languages C and i am working in the embedded domain. I am into Real time operating system and currently working on building services for a custome RTOS.

I am interested in Open Source(OS) activities and i want to develop the OS community by adding more users and making people realise the advantages of using and contributing to the Open source world.

I as a developer would like to contribute code to the OS world and participate actively in the various aspects of the SDLC. I have been with FOSS.IN for quite sometime and have understood to a fair extent the proceedings in an OS world.

I am maintaining a group of over 100 people interested into embedded and RTOS and i intend to drive them to the OS world. You can have some info about the group on my Homepage: 
www.mayakar.8m.com

Join RTOSWORLD: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/rtosworld/join

I am here to help Ubuntu get to know more about Ubuntu and spread the same across my network within my reach and beyond. I want to get inspired and inspire (humanity to people). I want to contribute by helping interested learners, adding code snippets, giving talks, telling people about Ubuntu in FOSS and other events, translation for ubuntu in local language [Mother tongue: Kannada] and anything requested for...Do reach me and I shall try my best to help.
