{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for prctl ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/p/prctl, available for all architectures supported by the package (ia64, and shortly hppa)
# ''Rationale:''
** prctl is used to alter the kernel's handling of unaligned traps and such, and is used on all of the ia64 build daemons to identify alignment problems before upload.  The package is currently Architecture: ia64, but should be ia64/hppa shortly (once verified.)
** 
 0. ''Security:''
** No CVE entries.
** No Secunia history.
** No binaries running suid/sgid.
** Can only be run as root, so not very security relevant.
** Does not open any port.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package works out of the box without configuration.
** No Debian bugs.
** Good maintenance in Debian.
** Active upstream (debian _is_ upstream).
** Does not deal with exotic hardware which we cannot support.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Meets the <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>
** Standard debhelper packaging
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** All in main.

=== Reviewers ===
MartinPitt: approved
