{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== New Features in Mythbuntu ==

This release of Mythbuntu will be following the LTS development cycle and contains many new <nowiki>[[http://www.mythbuntu.org|features]]</nowiki>.

=== Changes for Mythbuntu 12.04.1 ===

* We've picked up all the standard Ubuntu updates.

* We have updated to MythTV 0.25.2 which fixes a bunch of bugs that were found after our initial release.

* The installer will no longer wipe databases for MySQL and MythTV during installation if you do an "in place" upgrade.

=== Mythbuntu Applications ===

* The newest version of MythTV: MythTV 0.25.2.  It includes lots of new features including HTTP live streaming, VAAPI, Airtunes/Airplay, and 3D video.  For a more in depth list, please see http://mythbuntu.org/mythtv/0.25

* Mythbuntu repositories is integrated directly into MCC and no longer an external plugin.

* The Mythbuntu backup client has been improved and should work better in more situations.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Mythbuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Mythbuntu with the CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Mythbuntu 12.04.1 images can be downloaded from:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/12.04.1/release/ (Mythbuntu)

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Mythbuntu 12.04 is 512 MB of memory.  It is highly recommended that you have 2GB or more memory though so that the system will perform much better.  You can view more information about other recommended hardware on the Mythbuntu website at: http://mythbuntu.org/requirements.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Mythbuntu 11.10 or 10.04 ===

To upgrade from Mythbuntu 11.10 or 10.04, check Update Manager for updates. Update Manager should display the following message: "New distribution release '12.04' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions". 

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Mythbuntu releases need to upgrade first to 11.10, or 10.04 and then to 12.04.

For further information on upgrading to 11.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OneiricUpgrades| Ubuntu Oneiric upgrade instructions ]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

=== Graphics and Display ===

* Setting up a machine without a network connection will cause the backend to not start on boot.  If this happens and you plan to run it without a network connection, you'll need to modify the upstart job.  To do this, modify /etc/init/mythtv-backend.conf and remove the and "IFACE!=lo".

=== Applications ===

== Support ==

* Mythbuntu is now supported on an LTS cycle.  This means you should continue to have updates available all the way through the next LTS, currently slated to be 14.04.
* Any updated MythTV releases will be made available via an addon repository via the mythbuntu control centre.
* For help, please visit the Mythbuntu forums (http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=301).  We also have mailing lists and IRC channels, but the forums are the recommended way to get help. 
