{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Plan for 12.04 Release Notes ===

==== Overview ====
One of the areas we wanted to improve this cycle is in the release notes.   By starting them started earlier, we can hopefully improve the polish of them.   The past structure isn't going to scale well with various products having different long term support requirements, so a bit of restructuring seemed prudent as well.   There is some content (final list of bugs... hopefully few) that we won't know until the last week or so,  but there is a lot of the content that is known now, and getting it structured, written up, and clear to understand is the hope. 

==== New Structure ====

Rather than <nowiki>[[OneiricOcelot-ReleaseNotes|one page for all the products that make up a release]]</nowiki>,  the WIKI pages for the release notes will been structured into a series of pages, one page for each product.   For example, one for <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuDesktop|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuServer|Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki>, etc.  There are also some pages <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-CommonInfrastructure|common]]</nowiki> that are automatically embedded in the product pages, so we only need to edit the content in one place, and it replicates where needed so that each product page stands on its own.   All of the new pages can be found under PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes. 

==== Documentation Task Schedule ====

The proposed documentation Schedule to end of the release is going to look something like:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Week'''
| '''Date''' ~-(Thursday)-~
| '''Work Item<<BR>>Iteration'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Documentation Tasks'''
|-
| 23
| March 22nd
| Beta UI
| <#FFDDCC> BetaFreeze, <<BR>> DocumentationStringFreeze
| Add into the framework the contents from Alpha & Beta Technical Overview
|-
| 24
| March 29th
| Beta UI
| <#FFDDCC>  BetaRelease
| Beta 2 Technical Overview gather content and polish
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> April 2012
|-
| 25
| April 5th
| Quality
| <#FFCCCC>
| Identify weak areas of Release Notes and folks to help fill out content
|-
| 26
| April 12th
| Quality
| <#FFCCCC> NonLanguagePackTranslationDeadline (Tue), <<BR>> FinalFreeze, <<BR>>   LanguagePackTestRebuild (Fri)
| Add content to release notes and polish
|-
| 27
| April 19th
| Quality
| <#FFCCCC>  LanguagePackTranslationDeadline (Tue), <<BR>> CandidateWindowStarts
| Adding in the final bugs we're not going to fix and polish
|-
| 28
| April 26th
| Quality
| <#FFCCCC> UnseededUniverseFinalFreeze (Tue) '''FinalRelease'''
| {*} '''Ubuntu 12.04 LTS'''
|}

=== Editorial and Contributor Signup ===

Editorial and Content contributors are very much needed, please sign up to help where you're interested and willing to help.  To sign up: please put down the task you can help with and your launchpad id in the last column.  Multiple folk signing up per task per week is welcome.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc"> '''Week'''
| '''Date''' ~-(Thursday)-~
| '''Documentation Tasks'''
| '''Contributor '''
|-
| 23
| March 22nd
| Set up framework and add intial content
| Consolidate Alpha & Betas into new framework (kate.stewart) - done <<BR>>
|-
| 24
| March 29th
| Beta 2 Technical Overview gather content and polish
| Beta2 technical overview and bug summary (kate.stewart, tech leads)
|-
| <-5 #eeeeee> April 2012
|-
| 25
| April 5th
| Identify weak areas of Release Notes and folks to help fill out content
| 
|-
| 26
| April 12th
| Add content to release notes and polish
| Populate all the templates with initial information (kate.stewart, leads)
|-
| 27
| April 19th
| Adding in the final bugs and polish, content translation?
| Add bugs (kate.stewart) <<BR>> Editor pass ('''?''') <<BR>> Incorporate refs to the Ubuntu-docs an server guides ('''?''')
|-
| 28
| April 26th
| Adding in the final bugs and polish
| Add bugs (kate.stewart, release team members, product leads) <<BR>> Editor pass ('''?''')
|}
