{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

 "The most important rule is to formulate, clearly and precisely, 
  the goal to be reached, and then to retain it unswervingly in 
  mind throughout all the stages of the execution, which are often 
  long and complex." - Roberto Assagioli 

The Ubuntu team is very pleased to announce the release of 
Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS (Long-Term Support) for Desktop, Server, 
Cloud, and Core products. The Ubuntu LTS flavors are also 
being released today.

In the 12.04.1 release, we’ve added support for the Calxeda ECX-1000 
SoC family, so businesses can prepare for a datacentre dominated by 
low-energy, hyperscale servers by testing their workloads 
on the new hardware now.

The Ubuntu Cloud Archive also makes its debut - essentially 
an online software repository from which administrators can 
download the latest versions of OpenStack for use with the 
latest long-term support (LTS) release of Ubuntu. 

Certified 12.04.1 Ubuntu Cloud images are now available on 
Amazon Web Services and will soon be posted to Windows Azure 
as well.

This point release has numerous updates integrated, and updated 
installation media has been provided so that fewer updates will 
need to be downloaded after installation.  These include 
security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a focus 
on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.

Kubuntu 12.04.1 LTS, Edubuntu 12.04.1 LTS, Xubuntu 12.04.1 LTS, 
Mythbuntu 12.04.1 LTS, and Ubuntu Studio 12.04.1 LTS are now
available as well.  More details can be found in their announcements:

    Edubuntu http://edubuntu.org/news/12.04.1-release
    Xubuntu: http://xubuntu.org/news/12-04.1-release
    Kubuntu: http://kubuntu.org/news/
    Mythbuntu: http://mythbuntu.org/

To get Ubuntu 12.04.1
---------------------

In order to download Ubuntu 12.04.1, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 10.04 and 11.10 will be offered an automatic 
upgrade to 12.04.1 via Update Manager. For further information 
about upgrading, see:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/upgrade

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of charge.

We recommend that all users read the 12.04.1 release notes, which document 
caveats and workarounds for known issues, as well as more in-depth notes on 
the release itself. They are available at:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new 
    http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/features 

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug 
but aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

### ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
    http://www.ubuntuforums.org
    http://askubuntu.com

Help Shape Ubuntu
-----------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list 
of ways you can participate at:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, 
clouds and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular 
releases. A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications 
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a 
few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical 
and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more 
information about support, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/support 

More Information
----------------

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our 
website listed below:

    http://www.ubuntu.com

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to 
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

On behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team,
Kate Stewart

</pre>
