{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== New Features in Lubuntu 12.04 ==

This release of Lubuntu contains:

* A new software-center, optimized to be lightweight, for easy installation and removal of applications from your system.
 
=== Lubuntu Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE]]</nowiki>, the lightweight desktop environnement, including applications such as Pcmanfm and LXAppearance.
* <nowiki>[[http://openbox.org/ | Openbox]]</nowiki>, the fast and extensible, default windows-manager of LXDE.
* Chromium, the open source version of the Google browser Chrome.
* For more detail, please see the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Applications | full list of applications]]</nowiki>

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Lubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Lubuntu with the Desktop CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

Please note that DVD image size and Hibernate/suspend changes apply to Ubuntu, not Lubuntu.

=== Download ===

To download Lubuntu and see the various options available head over to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | Get Lubuntu]]</nowiki>. This section also discusses both the standard installs and those required for computers with low memory (RAM), old chipsets (i586), PowerPC, Mac and low disk-space (netbooks).

=== System Requirements ===

A Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MB of RAM is probably a bottom-line configuration that may yield slow yet usable system with a standard lubuntu desktop.

Default i686 (32 bit) images support '''more hardware than the equivalent Ubuntu image, as it uses a non-PAE kernel''', but is limited to 4 GB of memory. If you have more than 4 GB of memory on a 32 bit system, head over to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | Get Lubuntu]]</nowiki> for a fuller discussion.

For PowerPC, it is known to run on a G4 running at 867MHz with 640MB RAM. 

For Intel based Macs, lubuntu should run on all models.

See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | Get Lubuntu]]</nowiki> for fuller details as to which download to use.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Lubuntu 11.10 ===
The update manager GUI will offer you 12.04 Lubuntu (it shows as Ubuntu, but updates Lubuntu); Alternatively, launch LXTerminal and enter
<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
</pre>
Please note the importance of upgrading apt and dpkg on a mixed 32 bit & 64 bit architecture (e.g. Skype on a 64bit installation) below.

== Known Issues ==
=== Installation ===
* Broken icon falsely indicates reducing the size of a partition is not possible. (Bug:986607)
=== Graphics and Display ===
* None
=== Applications ===
* gnome-mplayer may crash on some specific hardware (Pentium 3 or Pentium 4). Installing the package mplayer should work-around the problem. (Bug:974125)
* lxkeymap may crash on certain keyboard configuration. (Bug:945603)

== Changes since 11.10 ==

* New <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/precise/lubuntu-artwork | artwork]]</nowiki> is used.
* Lubuntu 12.04 now uses Lightdm as the display manager with the <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/precise/lightdm-gtk-greeter | lightdm-gtk-greeter]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/precise/blueman | Blueman]]</nowiki> is now used instead of gnome-bluetooth for managing bluetooth devices.

== Support ==

* 18 months (12.04 Lubuntu is not an LTS).
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs | Contact us]]</nowiki>.
