{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

These release notes for '''Ubuntu 12.04.2''' (Precise Pangolin) provide an overview of the release and document the known issues with Ubuntu 12.04.2 and its flavors.  For details of the changes applied since 12.04.1, please see the <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-12.04.2|12.04.2 change summary]]</nowiki>.  The release notes for <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-12.04|12.04]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-12.04.1|12.04.1]]</nowiki> are available as well.

== Product Overview ==

The overview of each product included with this release, as well as of the installation, upgrade, and known issues can be found by following these links:   
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuDesktop-12.04.2|Ubuntu 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuServer-12.04.2|Ubuntu Server 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Core|Ubuntu Core (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-Edubuntu-12.04.2|Edubuntu 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-Kubuntu-12.04.2|Kubuntu 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-Mythbuntu-12.04.2|Mythbuntu 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuStudio-12.04.2|Ubuntu Studio 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin-ReleaseNotes-Xubuntu-12.04.2|Xubuntu 12.04.2 (LTS)]]</nowiki>

== Reporting bugs ==

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve the quality of future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Ubuntu Project Contributors ==

Ubuntu 12.04.2 would not be possible without the contributions of our developers, testers, release team members, documentation writiers, translators, bug analysts and our users who take the time to file bugs. 
Ubuntu is based on <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org|the Linux Kernel]]</nowiki> and our many other excellent upstream projects.  Thank you!

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu in the future, please take a look at the list of ways you can <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|participate]]</nowiki>.

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce
