{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is for tracking discussion of what is in the queues to be
considered for the precise -release and -proposed inclusion. <<BR>>
new: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+queue?queue_state=0 <<BR>>
unapproved: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+queue?queue_state=1 <<BR>>

Please group packages under the following headings and use the convention:  <<BR>>
<full package name>: <release team member(s)> - <question/comment/reason>  <<BR>>
to describe.    These lists should be updated, as packages get considered and
then decided on.

== Seeded Packages Pending Review ==
 

== Unseeded Packages Pending Review ==
* 

== Packages Building in -proposed to be considered for -release ==
* See http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html (check unfinished/failed builds)

== Packages NOT to be accepted without further discussion ==

== Rejected packages that may warrant further discussion ==

== Packages for stable release updates (not critical to release) if in -proposed,  don't copy for now ==
* gcc 4.6 - ICE fix. 
* apport 2.0.1-0ubuntu6: slangasek - for SRU only
* compiz 1:0.9.7.6-0ubuntu2 - includes a critical fix for ARM, but also includes other x86-affecting changes that require further QA beyond what time allows for -release.

== Process fails - for consideration on a better system for Q ==
* openjdk-6_6b24-1.11.1-4ubuntu1 - got accepted without discussion because pad not checked.
* pad is unreliable - have to re-login all the time and often don't know it.  
* WIKI doesn't get updated as easily, ... 
* Gobby doesn't have history
* python2.7 went from ppa to proposed to release without being tested for o->p upgrades, *only* for l->p, letting in a critical regression
