{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Features in Ubuntu 12.04.1 ==

=== Desktop Interface ===

* There is a new way to quickly search and access menu and indicator actions, called the "HUD" (Heads-Up Display). Tap the Alt key and enter some letters and words, and it will show the corresponding entries, including some fuzzy matching; then press enter to execute the action. The search will include all menu entries of the currently focused application, as well as all indicator facilities (like managing emails, sound list, or logging out of the session). It learns from your previous choices to make the search more and more accurate for you.

* System Settings has several new "<nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/02/privacy-controls-minor-ui-tweaks-land-in-ubuntu-12-04/|options]]</nowiki>" to customize Unity's look and behavior.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/nautilus-quicklist-adds-bookmark-support-for-precise/|Nautilus quicklist]]</nowiki> support has been added to Unity launcher.

* !ClickPad devices are trackpads where the physical button is integrated into the trackpad surface. Ubuntu 12.04 now has enhanced support for these devices. When the button is pressed on a !ClickPad device, a second finger may be used to drag the cursor.
** !ClickPad support requires extra handling that conflicts with "Click Action" support. Click Actions allow for separate actions when multiple fingers are active on a trackpad. The default Ubuntu settings enable right button behavior when two fingers are in contact with the trackpad surface and the physical trackpad button is pressed. Because of conflicting behavior, !ClickPad devices do not support Click Actions in this release.
** Most Synaptics brand !ClickPads are recognized out of the box. Apple !MacBook trackpads are recognized as well. Support for Apple Magic Trackpads and more Synaptics brand !ClickPads will follow in the next release.

* Network Manager now uses dnsmasq for improved DNS reliability and support for split-DNS on VPN links. You can learn more <nowiki>[[http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/|here]]</nowiki>.
* IPv6 and IPv4 are now equally supported in Network Manager: an IPv4 address is no longer required for a connection to be considered as working.

=== Desktop Applications ===

* The default music player has been switched to <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/rhythmbox/|Rhythmbox]]</nowiki>, which again includes the Ubuntu One music store.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.libreoffice.org/|LibreOffice]]</nowiki> has been updated to 3.5.4.

* <nowiki>[[https://live.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki> has been updated to 3.4.2. Read the GNOME 3.4 <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.4/|Release Notes]]</nowiki> to learn what's new and improved. A few highlights include:
   - Files (Nautilus) now has undo support.
   - Several games have been <nowiki>[[http://bobthegnome.blogspot.com/2011/12/gnome-games-modernisation.html|modernized]]</nowiki> with useful help, simplified menus, and a less cluttered interface. 
 
* <nowiki>[[http://remmina.sourceforge.net/|Remmina]]</nowiki> with FreeRDP is the new standard remote desktop client, replacing <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/vinagre/|Vinagre]]</nowiki> and rdesktop.

* The IcedTea Java plugin is no longer installed as part of the ubuntu-restricted-addons package but it is still available for install (Bug:889171)

=== Software Center ===

* When installing new software through software-center, corresponding language support packages (translations, spell check modules particular to that software, help files, etc.) are now installed alongside automatically. This removes the need to open "Language Support" after installing new software.
* The user can opt-in into personalized recommendations. This will show global, category and per-application recommendations to the user.
* Payment support for <nowiki>[[https://www.paypal.com|PayPal]]</nowiki>.
* Web Directory to share applications with your friends.
* Support for multiple screenshots and videos is now available.
* Startup time and overall responsiveness was improved.
* Improved support for installing multiple versions via the ubuntu-backports project.

=== Ubuntu One ===

* The all new Control Panel now provides an installer, setup wizard, ability to add/remove folders to sync, and more.
* Proxy support is now fully functional.
* Ubuntu One contacts sync in Evolution is not supported any more and has been removed.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Ubuntu with the Desktop CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Ubuntu 12.04 images can be downloaded from a location near you:

** http://www.ubuntu.com/download

In addition they can also be found at the following locations:

** http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04.1/ (Ubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04.1/ (Ubuntu DVD, preinstalled ARM images, source)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/12.04/ (Ubuntu Netboot)

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu 12.04 is 384 MB of memory for Ubuntu Desktop.   Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card. If your computer has only the minimum amount of memory, the installation process will take longer than normal; however, it will complete successfully, and the system will perform adequately once installed.

Systems with less memory may be able to select "Install Ubuntu" from the boot menu to run just the installer, rather than the whole desktop, or may be able to use the alternate install CD.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Ubuntu 11.10 ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu 11.10 on a desktop system, start "Update Manager". It should display the following message: "New distribution release '12.04' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions".

=== Upgrading from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS ===

To upgrade from 10.04 LTS on a desktop system before then, upgrade over the network with the following procedure.

### Start System/Administration/Software Sources
### On the Updates tab, set Show new distribution releases: to Long term support releases only, then press Close.
### Press Alt-F2 and type update-manager -d
#### Click the Check button to check for new updates.    If there are any updates to install, use the Install Updates button to install them, and press Check again after that is complete.
#### A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release. Click Upgrade.
    Follow the on-screen instructions. 

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Ubuntu releases need to upgrade first to 11.10, and then to 12.04.

For further information on upgrading to 11.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OneiricUpgrades| upgrade instructions ]]</nowiki>.

=== System requirements ===
* While the minimum memory requirement for 32bit is 384 MB, a minimum of 512 MB is needed for the 64bit installation. On systems with only the bare minimum amount of memory, it is also strongly recommended to use the "Install Ubuntu" option as it uses less memory than the full live session.
* The Ubuntu 12.04 installation image does not include support for old computers that do not support PAE. If your computer is affected, you can either first install Ubuntu 10.04 or 11.10 and upgrade to 12.04 or you can use the Lubuntu or Xubuntu images. The non-PAE version of the Linux kernel will be dropped completely following the 12.04 release.

== Known Issues ==

=== Desktop Interface ===

* When using the LiveCD in certain languages such as French and choosing "Try Ubuntu" at the prompt, the keyboard will be brought up with the US keyboard map instead of the correct one for the chosen language.  To avoid this bug, users can press any key at the very first splash screen and select their language here instead. (Bug:985065)
* In a GNOME Classic session, alt-tabbing between windows does not work.  There are workarounds listed in the bug.  (Bug:971051)

Please install available updates to ensure that the issues below will be fixed on your system.

* Unity Dash (opened via the "Ubuntu" button in the top of the Launcher, or after pressing the <Super> key) may appear sluggish or slow to respond.  This is caused by excessive redrawing of the screen contents in some circumstances.  (Bug:980924)
* Unity Launcher. If an application is pinned and then unpinned from the Unity Launcher using right-click->Un/Lock to Launcher repeatedly the application may vanish from the Launcher.  It is necessary to log out and login again.   This relates to an application monitoring framework called "Bamf"  (Bug:978401)
* Window titlebars do not update on ATI graphics hardware with the "fglrx" driver. A solution to this problem will be delivered in an update.  (Bug:770283)
* On some NVidia cards, when using the proprietary driver, moving windows and other large screen updates causes some tearing. (Bug:600178)

=== Desktop Applications ===

* The mail client <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/evolution/|Evolution]]</nowiki> may delete folders and their contents as they are renamed or moved around in IMAP (and IMAP+) accounts. It is recommended to copy folders and contents before attempting to move or rename them. (Bug:957341)

== Support ==

* 5 years (Long Term Support).
