{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the release of Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS
(Long-Term Support) for its Desktop, Server, Cloud, and Core products,
as well as other flavours of Ubuntu with long-term support.

To help support a broader range of hardware, the 12.04.2 release adds an
updated kernel and X stack for new installations on x86 architectures,
and matches the ability of 12.10 to install on systems using UEFI
firmware with Secure Boot enabled.

As usual, this point release includes many updates, and updated
installation media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to
be downloaded after installation.  These include security updates and
corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining
stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.

Kubuntu 12.04.2 LTS, Edubuntu 12.04.2 LTS, Xubuntu 12.04.2 LTS,
Mythbuntu 12.04.2 LTS, and Ubuntu Studio 12.04.2 LTS are also now
available.  For some of these, more details can be found in their
announcements:

    Kubuntu:       http://www.kubuntu.org/news/12.04.2-release
    Edubuntu:      http://www.edubuntu.org/news/12.04.2-release
    Mythbuntu:     http://www.mythbuntu.org/home/news/12042released
    Ubuntu Studio: http://ubuntustudio.org/2013/02/ubuntu-studio-12-04-2-lts-precise-pangolin-release-notes/

To get Ubuntu 12.04.2
---------------------

In order to download Ubuntu 12.04.2, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 10.04 and 11.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to
12.04.2 via Update Manager.  For further information about upgrading,
see:

    https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the 12.04.2 release notes, which
document caveats and workarounds for known issues, as well as more
in-depth notes on the release itself.  They are available at:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/12042

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

### ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
    http://www.ubuntuforums.org
    http://askubuntu.com

Help Shape Ubuntu
-----------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
clouds and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases.  A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is
included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few
clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/support 

More Information
----------------

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website
listed below:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
