{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/free-flash-player-pre-feisty
* '''Priority''': NeedsPriority
* '''People''': NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* '''Created''': 2005-11-02 by Jeroen
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': libflash-mozplugin, libflash0c2, libswfdec0.3, swf-player
* '''Status''': BrainDump

=== Summary ===

Enable Ubuntu users to view modern, interactive macromedia Flash animations without resorting to immoral software by providing a Free Software alternative and integrating it with Ubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

Ubuntu users should be able to play the modern, interactive Flash animations found on the web today, without having to resort to immoral software.

=== Use cases ===

** Nicolette likes to play Flash games
** Jeroen wants to view Flash screencasts
** Marinus wants to install GPLFlash, but he can't find it in the repositories because it's named libflash

=== Scope ===

Browserplug-ins and flash-decoders/players

=== Design ===

?

=== Implementation ===

There are a few different flash decoders, plugins and players. The most important are GPLFlash version 2 and GNU Gnash, which is based on the public domain gameswf. Both are only available with CVS or in the form of snapshots.

The old, version 1, GPLFlash is already available in Ubuntu's universe as libflash. It should be renamed to something which can be found easier, like gplflash. Likewise for the other GPLFLash packages (mozplugin, dev).

==== Code ====

?

=== Outstanding issues ===

GPLFlash 2 and GNU Gnash haven't had a stable release yet.
GPLFlash 2 and GNU Gnash aren't available in the Ubuntu repositories.
----
CategorySpec
