{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''PRESS RELEASE'''

(Your logo appears here)<<BR>>
[Group’s mailing address]

'''Headline in Boldface Appears at Top'''

DATE: Put the date on which you want the story to be released, or put the words “For immediate release: at the beginning of your release.

TEXT: The first sentence should be clear, factual and grab the attention of the reader. It should tell the press what the story is about.

EXAMPLE TEXT: (City): The Massachusetts Local Community Team for the Ubuntu Linux operating system has announced the date for the first-ever Massachusetts Installfest. The festival will take place on October 13 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at MIT’s Media Library in Cambridge.

The festival is an opportunity for the Ubuntu team to show normal computer users how easy using the Linux software has become. Volunteers will be on hand to answer questions, present demonstrations and help users install the free, open source Linux operating system. Ubuntu CDs, case badges, drinks and snacks will be available.

"Our team wants to bring the possibilities of Ubuntu to the entire Bay State area,” said Mike Rushton, the Massachusetts organizer for Ubuntu. “Most installfests focus primarily on advanced users, but we want to broaden our focus to include all users. Ubuntu lets people breathe new life into older computers that would normally be considered out of date, allowing them to support the latest technologies and get more value from their machines.”

For more information about the Massachusetts Installfest, visit www.ubuntu-mass.org.

The Ubuntu Massachusetts team wants to grow the ecosystem of individuals, companies, non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and governmental and intergovernmental institutions working with Ubuntu Linux in Massachusetts. The team offers advice, expertise and a range of events to help any kind of organization or individual understand the power and simplicity of open source solutions. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 100%" style="text-align: center;"> - 30 -
|}

Contact information: (Don’t forget to include the name and phone number where people quoted in the release can be reached for comment.)
