{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu Certified for IBM DB2 ===

'''London 9th November 2005''' : Ubuntu is moving into Enterprise computing with IBM's certification of Ubuntu as "Ready for IBM DB2 Software for Linux".

Ubuntu has successfully gone through the stringent process whereby IBM ensures that DB2
Universal Database for Linux operates in the Ubuntu environment. By working closely together, IBM and Ubuntu have shown that DB2 UDB and Ubuntu deliver a stable environment in which to run business applications using DB2 as the chosen database.

The combination of this certification and the recently announced server edition of Ubuntu opens up new opportunities for users and developers to access the power of DB2 UDB on Ubuntu.
Enterprises of all sizes can now leverage the strengths of DB2 UDB and the security, stability and ease of use of Ubuntu.

Ubuntu engineers worked directly with IBM DB2 Lab Software engineers to do compatibility
testing under the DB2 for Linux Validation program. The "Ready for IBM DB2 Software for
Linux" mark ensures that IBM will fully support businesses who choose to run DB2 UDB on
Ubuntu, an essential offering for mission critical databases and applications.

This certification is the first major one of its type awarded to Ubuntu, and Mark Shuttleworth, founder and sponsor of Ubuntu is enthusiastic about the future. "Being Ready for DB2 UDB is a real step up for Ubuntu, and the whole project is moving into new and exciting areas. Our release last month included a server edition, which provides the perfect foundation for major database environments." In addition to the core Ubuntu system, the Ubuntu family includes the KDE-based Kubuntu and the education focused Edubuntu.

The certification will be attractive to Ubuntu's growing Partnership members as well. "With an respected product like DB2 on Ubuntu, our partners will relish the chance to discuss database and solution choices with their clients " commented Malcolm Yates, Alliances and Partner manager at Canonical Ltd.

=== About Ubuntu ===

Since its launch in October 2004, Ubuntu has become one of the most highly regarded Linux
distributions, with millions distributed and in use around the world. Based on Debian, Ubuntu will always be free, and will not have restrictive licences associated with it. With these goals in mind at all times, Ubuntu aims at being the most widely used of all Linux systems, and is the centre of a global open source software ecosystem. Find out more about Ubuntu at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>

=== About Canonical ===

Canonical Ltd. is committed to the development, distribution and promotion of open source
software products, and to providing tools and support to the open source community. With a
global organisation headquartered in the Isle of Man, Canonical has employees throughout
Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Australia.

=== Contact ===

Malcolm Yates

+44 20 7052 9842

=== Download PDF ===

<<AttachList>>
