{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu and founder Mark Shuttleworth win new awards ==

'''London, 28th November 2005'''.

Ubuntu and its founder, Mark Shuttleworth, both won awards at the Linux New Media Awards at last week's Linux World Expo in Frankfurt, Germany.

The Best Debian Derivative Distribution award was judged by a 200-member international jury from industry and the Open Source community. This is a significant award as it recognises the effort that the Ubuntu team have put into working with Debian in order to produce an easy to use desktop environment, suitable for everyone.

This award follows on from several other prestigious awards that Ubuntu has won since the launch of the latest release, 5.10 in October this year.

The award for Outstanding Contribution to Linux / Open Source was given to Mark Shuttleworth in recognition of his commitment to the development and acceptability of Free and Open Source Software. With projects such as the Shuttleworth Foundation, the Go Open Source campaign, and the establishment of Canonical to provide commercial support for Ubuntu, Mark has shown that Open Source can be a change for the better in all areas of PC usage, in developed and developing countries, and, in particular, schools and colleges across the world.

Mark thanked everyone involved, in particular the Debian community, and added "This is the tipping point for Software Libre ­ we are starting to see Linux on the desktop become a reality not just for high end power users, but for the rest of the family too. The hard work of hundreds of thousands of anonymous contributors has reached critical mass, our momentum is now unstoppable. It's a great privilege to be part of this quiet revolution."

Details of these and other awards can be found at http://www.linuxnewmedia.de/en and at
http://www.linux-magazine.com/CustomerService/Exclusive/2005_Linux_New_Media_Awards.html

The Shuttleworth Foundation website is http://www.tsf.org.za/ and the Go Open Source Project can be found at http://www.go-opensource.org/

=== About Ubuntu ===

Since its launch in October 2004, Ubuntu has become one of the most highly regarded Linux
distributions, with millions users around the world. Ubuntu will always be free, and will not have restrictive licences associated with it. With these goals in mind at all times, Ubuntu aims at being the most widely used of all Linux systems and at the centre of a global open source software ecosystem. Find out more about Ubuntu at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>.

=== About Canonical ===

Canonical Ltd. is committed to the development, distribution and promotion of open source software products, and to providing tools and support to the open source community. Canonical, a global organisation headquartered in the Isle of Man, has employees in Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Australia.

=== Contact ===

Malcolm Yates

+44 20 7052 9842

=== PDF ===

* http://www.ubuntu.com/include/LinuxNewMediaAward2005-11-25.pdf
