{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu 5.10 Release ==

=== Canonical launches Ubuntu 5.10 ­ possibly the world's favourite Linux ===

'''London 13th October 2005''' : Canonical Ltd is pleased to announce the availability of the latest version of Ubuntu. Designed to make Linux easy for everyone, the Ubuntu is targeted at PC users who are looking at a flexible, easy to use desktop, as well as providing all the required features and applications that businesses need on both desktops and servers.

This release features a new flavour of Ubuntu, called Edubuntu, which is a specialised version
developed in collaboration with teachers and education specialists for classroom deployment.

It also has support for OEMs pre-installing Linux on new machines, either exclusively or alongside Microsoft Windows, making Ubuntu 5.10 the premier choice for system builders worldwide.

With a commitment to be available at no charge, have no restrictive licensing, and provide security updates for 18 months after each release, Ubuntu is uniquely placed to deliver Linux to all types users. Add the professional technical support from many companies around the world, and Ubuntu becomes the latest Linux to offer a solid base for all businesses.

Ubuntu 5.10 comes with two CDs : one for installing onto a PC or server, and the other to run as a Live CD, enabling anyone to try Ubuntu on their computer without disturbing their existing installation.

Ubuntu is free to everyone, no matter where they are in the world. The new release is available to download at <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download|www.ubuntu.com/download]]</nowiki> or by registering for the ShipIt program at <nowiki>[[http://shipit.ubuntu.com|shipit.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu (based on the GNOME desktop) and Kubuntu (based on the KDE desktop) will be
available simultaneously and will support 32 and 64 bit PCs, and PowerPCs , together with
a broad range of graphics cards, audio devices, printers, scanners, plus network and
Bluetooth devices.

A major feature of Ubuntu 5.10 is the built-in thin client functionality - produced in cooperation with the Linux Terminal Server Project - making Ubuntu particularly advantageous in schools and for businesses with older hardware or who are looking to reduce total cost of ownership through effective Linux deployments. Ubuntu leads the world in the integration of thin client technology, making it the distribution of choice for large corporate desktop deployments where management costs and security are of critical importance.

GNOME 2.12 and KDE 3.4.3 provide the very latest user interfaces, and OpenOffice.org 2.0
enables support for the new OASIS Open Document Format, recently adopted as the standard by
governments such as the State of Massachusetts.

Applications in 5.10 are now linked into the Launchpad infrastructure which enables more effective collaboration between open source developers. Visit Launchpad at www.launchpad.net to find out how Launchpad is helping developers work together to produce translations, track bugs and work together with distributed version control.
