{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/printing-improvements
* '''Created''': 2006-06-19 by MartinPitt
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Mandriva's printing guru Till Kamppeter wanted to meet us in Paris to exchange some ideas and knowledge about the printing stack (cupsys, foomatic, gutenprint, etc.). So this is rather a meta-spec to allocate discussion time. From this, several concrete specifications may arise.

=== Rationale ===

Printing in Ubuntu is currently in a pretty bad shape: we have a lot of regressions wrt printer model support compared to Breezy, and the Gnome UI is getting obsolete.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* find people interested in doing printing maintenance in Ubuntu, since we currently do not have knowledgeable people
* improving printer bug triage: a lot of bugs are ignored right now, and we saw a huge number of regressions compared to Breezy (with an older cups and gutenprint).
* investigate alternative printer management UI solutions; g-cups-manager is abandoned upstream, lacks dbus/hal integration for proper hotplug support and automatic configuration.
* in the last printing summit the attendees agreed to a new and open standard to replace the current PPD format (doko: please fill in some details), but again implementation lacks manpower. 

----
CategorySpec
