{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/privileged-nautilus
* '''Created''': 29 April by SamTygier
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': nautilus, gvfs, glib,  

=== Summary ===

On the command line sudo makes it easy for admin users to temporarily increase privileges to allow admin tasks. There is nothing comparable in nautilus. A method escalating privileges in nautilus would make many admin tasks easier.

This has been discussed at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UsabilityWishlist#head-85f982e76b1b7c48377045667c20a7a029ae0b84 . also see http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=318882

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

* Niels wants to copy data from /var/cache/apt/archives/ one an ubuntu install that has the latest updates, to a freshly installed computer to save band width. He copys the files to CD, puts the CD in the second computer, and drags the files to the right folder in gnome. A dialog pops up explaining that he has insufficient priviliges, and offers him the chance to type in his password to gain priviliges.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

I think this would be best done at the Gnome VFS level. That way it could be used in other applications, eg when a user tries to save an edit to a system file, they get asked for thier password. 

   "This can now happen/ is possible with gio/gvfs --Johne" 

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
