{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

(Purposed for GoogleSoC2007)

* Visit the Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/crypt-manager
* Visit the Google Project page (code available here): http://code.google.com/p/crypt-manager/

Confidentiality of data stored on a computer is critical for a lot of company and organizations. It can be dramatic if confidential data (i.e : stored on laptop) are thieved and diffused.

GNU/Linux, and especially Ubuntu, must provide an easy way to ensure security and confidentiality of important data.

This the Google Summer of Code project of Kévin Dunglas.

Crypt manager is a command line tool we allow to encrypt, uncrypt, open and close directories.
Gnome crypt manager is a crypt manager GUI for the Gnome desktop .
This software use Cryptsetup as backend and is wrote in Python using Pygtk and Glade.

The GUI will be insiprated od Apple FileVault [1], wrote in Python and using GTK+ as toolkit (PyGTK / Glade).
I will use cryptsetup [2] as backend which is already available in the Universe repository [3].

If I still have time after that I will code a tool doing a job similar to 'clear my tracks' in Mozilla Firefox. It will delete all temporaries files created by the system, and purpose to remove logs.

* [1] http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/filevault/
* [2] http://www.saout.de/misc/dm-crypt/
* [3] http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/admin/cryptsetup.html

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/privacy-tools

Contact: Kévin Dunglas <dunglas@gmail.com>
