{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== MP Submission Checklist ===

'''Note:''' Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code with the MP ticket.

* Is your branch in sync with latest trunk (e.g. bzr merge lp:autopilot -> no changes)
* Have you attached (using --fixes or otherwise) the bug relevant for this change?
* Did you build the debian package?
* Has your component '''TestPlan''' been executed successfully on emulator, N4?
* If you changed the packaging (debian), did you subscribe a core-dev to this MP?
* Have you made changes that will affect existing tests (i.e. API change) if so have you communicated with the affected parties to arrange a seamless update?
* If you've changed any public facing APIs have you updated the docstrings?
* Have you built the docs and ensured any changes are displayed correctly?

=== MP Review Checklist ===
Below the checklist that a reviewer should follow taking the viewpoint of their component.

'''Note:''' Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket. A Reviewer usually is responsible for a single component; since we ask for reviewers to be subscribed that might see an impact by this MP this mean that we get one-to-many reviewers contributing to the MP review process.

* Are any changes against your component pending/needed to land the MP under review in a functional state and are those called out explicitly by the submitter?
* Did you do exploratory testing related to the component you own with the MP changeset included?
* Has the submitter requested a review by all the relevant teams/reviewers?
* If you are the reviewer owning the component the MP is against, have you checked that submitter has accurately filled out the submitter checklist and has taken no shortcut?
