{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': glib2.0
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glib2.0

=== Dependents/Clients ===

This is a base library so very many parts of the system depend on glib.

* qt
* system-settings

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they don't miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of the change.

We also recognise that glib is a large and mature library which has been used by the Ubuntu system since the beginning, and therefore a certain level of stability can be assumed.'''

Setup:

* Install latest image on phone
* Install packges from the silo
* Reboot

=== Manual Tests ===

Applications:

* Launch ubuntu-system-settings, navigate to the About panel and then click on Storage. Verify that the amounts are calculated and displayed after a short while.
* Pull down the power indicator and check the charge level is displayed correctly. Click "Battery settings…", then "Display brightness", and enable "Adjust automatically". Pull down the indicator again and verify the value is the same as the one you just select in system-settings.
