{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The source for this document can be gotten from Bazaar:

<pre>
bzr cat lp:indicator-display/tests/manual
</pre>

The source is in the standard manual testing format for Ubuntu QA: <nowiki>[[Testing-TestCaseFormat]]</nowiki>

=== Test Case: indicator-display/adb-prompt ===
==== Procedure ====
** Ensure your computer is not on your device's whitelist for promptless ADB connections. If any computers are whitelisted, they are stored on the device in <code>/data/misc/adb/adb_keys</code> and you can safely remove your computer from it by (A) either removing the file or removing the line that contains your laptop's public key (the line matching <code>~/.android/adbkey.pub</code> on your computer), then (B) reboot the device or <code>sudo restart android-tools-adbd</code>.
** Turn off your device's screen.
** Connect your computer to your device with a USB cable.
*** The device screen should come on, showing the lockscreen.
** Unlock the device.
*** ''After unlocking'', an ADB prompt should appear asking whether or not to allow USB debugging.
*** The ADB prompt should show your computer's fingerprint. This can be checked by running <code>"$ awk '{print $1}' < ~/.android/adbkey.pub | openssl base64 -A -d -a | openssl md5 -c"</code> <nowiki>[[http://android.stackexchange.com/questions/50922/how-can-i-see-the-fingerprint-of-my-adbkey|(Source)]]</nowiki> on your computer.
** Click "Don't Allow".
*** The prompt should disappear.
** Try to log into the device from the computer, eg via <code>phablet-shell</code>.
*** The login attempt should fail.
** Disconnect and reconnect the device's USB cable.
*** The ADB prompt should reappear.
** Don't touch the ADB prompt. Instead, disconnect the device's USB cable.
*** The ADB prompt should disappear.
** Reconnect the device's USB cable.
*** The ADB prompt should reappear.
** Don't touch the ADB prompt. Instead, disconnect the device's USB cable.
** Turn off the device's screen.
** Reconnect the device's USB cable.
*** The device screen should come on, showing the lockscreen.
** Unlock the device.
*** After unlocking, the ADB prompt should reappear.
** Click "Allow".
** Try to log into the device from the computer.
*** The login attempt should now succeed. (NB: as always, phablet-shell may take a few tries to connect :) )
** Disconnect and reconnect the device's USB cable.
*** The device should be remembered, so no prompt should appear.
** Try to log into the device from the computer.
*** The device should be remembered, so the login attempt should succeed.

=== Test Case: indicator-display/adb-prompt-after-boot ===
==== Procedure ====
** Follow step 1 of indicator-display/adb-prompt test to ensure your computer is not on your device's whitelist for promptless ADB connections.
** Connect your computer and device with a USB cable
** Hold down the device's power button and tap "Restart" to reboot the phone
** Wait for the phone to reboot and the lockscreen to appear
*** The USB Debugging prompt should not appear
** Unplug the USB cable from the device, then reconnect it
*** The USB Debugging prompt should not appear
** Unlock the device
*** The USB Debugging prompt should appear

=== Test Case: indicator-display/rotation-indicator ===
==== Procedure ====
* On the phone, enable the rotation lock in ubuntu-system-settings.
** The rotation lock indicator should appear, and its switch menuitem should be set to 'true'.

***** With the rotation locked, click on the indicator's switch menuitem to toggle from locked to unlocked.
** The rotation lock indicator should disappear
** In ubuntu-system-settings, the rotation lock control should change to 'none'.

<strong>
    If all actions produce the expected results listed, please <nowiki>[[results#add_result|submit]]</nowiki> a 'passed' result.
    If an action fails, or produces an unexpected result, please <nowiki>[[results#add_result|submit<-a> a 'failed' result and <a href="..-..-buginstructions">file a bug<-a>. Please be sure to include the bug number when you <a href="results#add_result">submit]]</nowiki> your result</strong>.
