{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': calendar-app
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/system-apps
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:ubuntu-calendar-app
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': no deb package, click only

=== Dependents/Clients ===

* sync-monitor, qtorganzier-eds

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they dont miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP'''

==== Event Creation ====
* Create a new event by press/hold/release in the desired time slot in Day View.
## Verify an event bubble called "New event" is displayed in the view after press and hold 
## Verify event details page properly intialized with the time slot you pressed on after releasing.
## Verify event is displayed properly in the day view after saving it.
## Verify if event is not saved from event detail page that it is removed from the day view.
* Repeat the same steps from the Week View
* From Day view, create a new event from the bottom edge and make sure it appears with correct defaults and is saved in the correct day/time.
* Repeat from Week view. 
* Repeat from Month view
* Create an event with guests. Verify that only guests with email addresses can be added. Note, guests are not sent an email currently.
* Create an All Day event by a) press and hold in All day section b) selecting the "All day event" checkbox from the event details page. Verify it is displayed correctly in the "All day" section of Day/Week view
* Create an event on each of the different calendars displayed in the "Calendars" drop down and verify they are displayed in the correct color in the Week/Day view.

==== Event Modification ====
* From Day View, press/hold/drag an event to a different time. Then open the event to verify it has been moved to a different time.
* Repeat from Week View
* Click on an event to open it. Then edit the event. Change the start time and/or end time. Save the event and make sure the appropriate view is updated correctly.
* Change an event from a normal event to an All Day Event and make sure it's displayed appropriately in the "All Day" section of day or week view.
* Change the guests by adding and removing (swipe right), save the event, re-open and make sure the changes were properly saved.
* Recurrence events:
  

==== Alarms/Notifications ====
* Create an event with No Reminder and make sure no notification occurs
* Create an event with other reminder times and make sure a notification does occur.

==== Calendar Visibility and Colors ====
* Click on the Calendars button on the header and toggle on/off the different calendars and verify they are shown or hidden in the views based on selection.
* Change the color for calendars and verify that the Day/Week views event bubbles are updated.

==== Calendar Syncing ====
* Click on the Calendars button and Add an online Calendar for Google
* After the sync finishes verify that the events are visible in the views
* For full testing, see sync-monitor test plan

==== Recurring Events ====
* Create a event that repeat every day starting today
1. Check if the event appears on the day/week view on the correct day starting from today
* Create a all day event that repeat every year starting today. 
1. Check if the event appears on all day header on the specific day for the current year and the next year.
* Delete a recurring event (series) and make sure that all related events get removed
* Delete a single instance of a recurring event and make sure that only this event dissappear from the view
* Drag a recurring event and make sure that only this event instance is update to the new time
* Edit a recurring event (series) and make sure that all related events get update 
* Edit a single instance of a recurring event and make sure that only this event get update

==== Default calendar settings ====
## Go to settings page and choose a default calendar
## Try create a new event using bottom edge. Check if the default calendar chose in the prev step is selected. 
## Try create a new event by long press on day/week view check if the color of the event is the same as the calendar chose in the step 1.
## Go to calendars page unselect the calendar that you chose in step 1.
    a. Try create a new event and check if the selected calendar is one of the available calendars.
      
