{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlans/ofono
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': https://github.com/rilmodem/ofono
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ofono

---

To perform these tests a bluetooth headset with the capability to accept, reject and re-dial calls is needed. For instance, the "Jabra Classic" headset.

A prerequisite for these tests is that the BT headset must be connected to phone. You can do this from indicator -> bluetooth settings.

=== 1. Accept call from other phone ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that the headset can be used for audio and for handling call signalling.

==== Steps ====
* Dial the DUT from another phone. Check that the ring tones are heard in the headset.
** ''Note - some headsets may sound the ringtone once and then announce the incoming phone number.''
* Cancel the incoming call from the headset. Check that the call is dropped.
* Dial the DUT again. Check that the ring tones are heard in the headset.
* Accept the call from the headset. Check that audio can be heard in the headset and that the headset MIC is sending audio to the caller.
* Finish the call using the headset controls. Check that the call actually finishes in both ends.

=== 2. Start call from DUT ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that the headset can be used for audio and for handling call signalling.

==== Steps ====
* Dial from the DUT using the dialer-app. Check that the ring tones are heard in the headset.
* Accept the call in the callee. Check that audio can be heard in the headset and that the headset MIC is sending audio to the caller.
* Finish the call using the headset controls. Check that the call actually finishes in both ends.
* Use the headset to re-dial to the last called number. Check that the call starts and that the ring tones are heard in the headset.
* Cancel the call from the headset before it gets accepted on the other end. Check that the call is actually dropped.
