{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': Unity8 Dash
* '''Component Checklist''': <backlink to your component checklist>
* '''Trunk URLs''':
*** `lp:unity8`
*** `lp:unity-scopes-shell`
* '''Ubuntu Package URLs (LP)''':
*** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity8
*** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-scopes-shell

=== Dependents/Clients ===

None.

=== Test Plan ===

* Go to 'Manage' page by swiping up from the bottom of the dash
** Verify that it has two categories: 'Home' and 'Also installed'.
** Verify that all currently favortied scopes (i.e. the ones available in the Dash when you swipe left/right) are displayed in the 'Home' category.
** Verify that all remaining scopes are displayed in the 'Also installed' category.
** Verify that the order of scopes on the list of favorites matches the order of Dash pages.
** Verify that scopes from 'Also installed' can be added to 'Home' category by clicking star icons next to them.
** Ensure that a scope is displayed in either 'Home' or 'Also installed', but never in both at the same time.
** Tap any of the scopes and verify that a dash page for that scope is opened.
** Verify that search is not available on 'Manage' page.
** Verify that the grey 'Ubuntu store' icon (with letter "A") in the top-right corner opens Ubuntu Store scope.

* Long-press any of the scopes in 'Manage' dash page
** Verify that you are now in Edit mode and scopes can be moved by grabbing handle icons to a different position within 'Home' category.
** Verify that tapping X at the top of the screen exits edit mode and goes back to 'Manage' dash page.
** Verify that the new order of the favorites is reflected in Dash pages.

* Reboot and verify that the list of favorited scopes and their order is still correct as you set it before reboot.
