{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== MP Submission Checklist Template ===

'''Note: Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket.'''

* Answers to checklist questions are desired to be 'yes' but if 'no' or 'not applicable' please expound
* Copy & paste the checklist into MP description
* Questions to answer:
<pre>
* Are there any related MPs required for this MP to build/function as expected? Please list.
* Did you perform an exploratory manual test run of your code change and any related functionality?
* If you changed the packaging (debian), did you subscribe the ubuntu-unity team to this MP?
</pre>
* If it depends on newer versions of packages that are in some PPA (like unity-api), add a line in the MP description like this: "Prereq-archive: ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/ubuntu/2457"

=== MP Review Checklist Template ===
 
* If you have been asked to review and are not on the unity-team, please review for any interdependency and paste the associated MP reference in a comment
* Copy & paste the checklist into MP review comment
* Questions to answer:
<pre>
* Did you perform an exploratory manual test run of the code change and any related functionality?
* Did CI run pass? If not, please explain why.
</pre>

=== MP Landing Checklist Template ===
* Questions to answer:
** Is the MP approved by at least 1 member of unity-team?
** Are the approvals equal to or greater than the disapprovals?
** Is the checklist completed to satisfaction?
** Has the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlans/Unity8|TestPlan]]</nowiki> been executed successfully on emulator, N4?
