{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': upstart
* '''Component Checklist''': 
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:upstart
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart
* '''Bug number''': https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bug/1447756

=== Overview ===

A small number of krillin devices are known to fail to boot due to bug Bug:1447756.

=== Dependents/Clients ===

=== Test Plan ===

Run the steps below on '''TWO''' devices:

# A krillin device that is known to fail due to the bug.
# A krillin device that does not suffer from the bug.

Steps to test the fix:

* Ensure the image version contains upstart version `1.13.2-0ubuntu13.1` is installed.

* Ensure the `boot.img` version does '''NOT''' specify "`--no-log`" in the kernel command-line ("`/proc/version`").
   Since the current `boot.img` '''DOES''' specify "`--no-log`", it is necessary to reflash a modified `boot.img` for this step.

* Attempt to boot the device.

** If it boots, the fix is good! :-)

* To be even more sure the fix is good, run the following on the device:
   <pre>
   $ for i in $(seq 17); do sudo start flush-early-job-log; done
   </pre>

----
