{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== NB: This is a draft and should not be used by QA yet ===

(Source: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/libpay2)

'''Notes on Setup'''

Bootstrapping all the pieces needed to test qtpurchasing-ubuntu is currently
quite complex. This will be easier after pieces land, but for now you should
follow the <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sKTTM85IbjehC7es-MkuTYtevxGJYDid1u66IycAtkI/edit?pli=1#heading=h.1uwexsb517t8|Pilot Setup]]</nowiki>
instructions from the IAP Pilot document.

If testing Qt Hangman, you'll also need to <code>sudo apt-get install qml-module-qtquick-controls</code> on the device.

If testing staging applications (e.g. Qt Hangman) you'll need to follow
the <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sKTTM85IbjehC7es-MkuTYtevxGJYDid1u66IycAtkI/edit?pli=1#heading=h.pkl3gbvwq0c2|Utilizing the Staging Ubuntu Store]]</nowiki>
instructions, also from the IAP Pilot document.

-------------------
=== Test Case: libpay2/qt-hangman-installation ===
==== Procedure ====
* Set up the staging server as described above in Notes on Setup
* Launch the Ubuntu Store
* Search for Hangman
** Qt Hangman, published by Antti Kaijanmäki, should appear as a free app
* Tap 'Hangman'
* Tap 'Install'
* Provide your '''staging''' account login if prompted
** Hangman should be installed.
* Tap 'Open'
** Hangman should launch
** The initial splash screen should appear briefly
** A new game should begin
** The initial vowel count should be 0

=== Test Case: libpay2/discovering-available-products ===
==== Procedure ====
* Open the installed Qt Hangman app (see the 'Qt Hangman Installation' test)
* Tap 'Vowels'
** The Hangman Store page should be displayed
** An item, '100Vowels', should be listed for US$5.00
** An item, 'UnlockVowels', should be listed for US$20.00

=== Test Case: libpay2/purchasing-consumable-products ===
==== Procedure ====
* Open the installed Qt Hangman app (see the 'Qt Hangman Installation' test)
* Tap 'Vowels'
* Tap '100Vowels' to purchase
** pay-ui Payment page appears
* Fill in the payment information using test credit card information (eg. Visa 4111 1111 1111 1111)
* Tap 'Buy Now'
** "Processing Payment..." should be displayed
** Control should return to the Hangman Store page as the purchase completes
** The Vowels button should now list 100 Vowels
* Tap the back arrow to Return to the Qt Hangman gameplay page
* Tap the letter 'a' from the keypad
** The 'Vowels' number should decrement
* Tap 'Vowels'
* Tap '100Vowels' to purchase again and complete the purchase as before
** Control should return to the Hangman Store page
** 199 Vowels should be listed as available
* Tap 'Vowels'
* Tap '100Vowels' to purchase again
* Instead of completing the purchase a third time, cancel the purchase
** Control should return to the Hangman Store page
** The number of vowels should be unchanged at 199
** The '100Vowels' item should soon change to 'available'

=== TODO ===

* Purchasing Unlockable Products
* Purchase Acknowledgement
* The more interesting question, is what purchasing errors (if any) can we test manually while still using end-to-end with Qt Hangman<-->staging?
