{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== MP Submission Checklist Template ==
'''Note: Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket.'''

Answers to checklist questions are desired to be 'yes' but if 'no' or 'not applicable' please expound
Copy & paste the checklist into MP description
Questions to answer:
* Are there any related MPs required for this MP to build/function as expected? Please list.
* Is your branch in sync with latest trunk (e.g. bzr pull lp:trunk -> no changes)
* Did you perform an exploratory manual test run of your code change and any related functionality on device or emulator?
* Did you successfully run all tests found in your component's Test Plan (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/ui-toolkit) on device or emulator?
* If you changed the UI, was the change specified/approved by design?
* If you changed the packaging (debian), did you subscribe a core-dev to this MP?
== MP Review Checklist Template ==
Copy & paste the checklist into MP review comment
Questions to answer:
* Did you perform an exploratory manual test run of the code change and any related functionality on device or emulator?
* Did you successfully run all tests found in your component's Test Plan (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/ui-toolkit) on device or emulator?
* Did CI run pass? If not, please explain why.
* Have you checked that submitter has accurately filled out the submitter checklist and has taken no shortcut?
== MP Landing Checklist Template ==
ensure that the checklists have been properly filled out by submitter and all reviewers
ensure all tests found in your component's Test Plan (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/<package-name>) have been successfully run on device or emulator
