{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Test plan for component''': unity-mir
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:unity-mir
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-mir

=== Dependants/Clients ===

* unity8
* unity-system-compositor

=== Test Plan ===

Test target device: Nexus 4
Secondary/backup device: Galaxy Nexus (not supported, but sufficient for this testing)
Nexus 7/10 do function, but some tests are known to fail on those devices.

Initial set up:

* Install latest image on phone
* Build package containing the code to be landed, push them to and install them on the device
* Reboot the phone

Check all autopilot tests succeed by executing the following command 
  phablet-test-run unity8
and waiting until it completes.

== Manual Tests ==

* Test that opening an application works, the application appears in the correct position on screen, the application receives input.
* Test that closing an application from the apps lens works
* Open app 1, and app 2. Check that app 2 in the front. Do right edge swipe, check that animation is smooth, that app 1 is not in front and receives input.
* With 1 app open, do left-edge swipe, ensure reveal dash
* Open gallery app, check that panel slides away. Do left-edge swipe, check panel slides back in.
* In dash, tap the "Search" string in the panel. The OSK should appear. Check that you can type. Check switching lens closes causes the OSK to disappear
* Open music app. Play a song. Open another app. Make sure music continues to play while music app in background
* Open various apps (an old school one, a click app, started through indicators) and close them again, verifying that the process is indeed stopped (ps xa | grep -i appname)
