{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': tone-generator
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': https://code.launchpad.net/~phablet-team/tone-generator/trunk
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tone-generator

=== Description ===

This is a test plan for tone-generator, a telephony session daemon used by Ubuntu Touch.  It ''does not'' cover scenarios and/or test cases for tone-generator installed on the desktop.

tone-generator is a simple daemon which provides a basic DBus interface on the session bus which allows clients to trigger local playback of telephony-related tones, primarily DTMF ( eg. dialer keypad tones ).

=== Setup ===

Install the <code>tone-generator-scripts</code> package which bundles some scripts which make tesing easier.

=== Test Cases ===

==== 1. Basic DTMF Playback ====

==== Purpose ====

Verify that tone-generator can trigger local playback of DTMF tones.

==== Steps: ====

As ''phablet'' user:

<pre>
% /usr/share/tone-generator/test-dtmf <keypad number>
</pre>

''tone-number'' is a keypad number from 0-9.

==== Verification: ====

* Verify that tone is played for 3 seconds and then stops ( compare to another phone )

==== 2. DTMF Playback during a Call ====

==== Purpose ====

Verify that tone-generator obeys system audio routing.

==== Steps: ====

* Dial and connect a cellular voice call
* Play a DTMF tone, via the 'test-dtmf' script as above
* Enable the loudspeaker
* Play a DTMF tone, via the 'test-dtmf' script as above
* End the call

==== Verification: ====

* Verify that the first DTMF tone is played in the earpiece, and the second in the loudspeaker.

==== 3. Tone Generation and System Sound Levels ====

==== Purpose ====

Verify that tone-generator obeys system sound levels.

==== Steps: ====

* Open System Settings / Sound
* Set volume slider to zero, medium, and full level
* For each volume level, play a DTMF tone, via the 'test-dtmf' script as above

==== Verification: ====

* Verify that the output level is appropriate in all three cases.

==== 4. Basic Signal Playback ====

==== Purpose ====

Verify that tone-generator can trigger local playback of telephony signal sounds.

==== Steps: ====

As ''phablet'' user:

<pre>
% /usr/share/tone-generator/scripts/test-signal 72
</pre>

Value ''72'' represents ''phone line busy'' (other values in the script's help text).

==== Verification: ====

* Verify that a series of several beeps (representing a busy phone line) is played.

=== Automation Status ===

Automation of the tone-generator testing is currently blocked pending improvements to the emulator's telephony support.

----
