{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': address-book-app
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/system-apps
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:address-book-app
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/address-book-app

=== Dependents/Clients ===

None

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they dont miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP'''

* Install latest (trusty-proposed) image on phone
* Install freshly build MPs that are needed for landing
* Ensure that all AP tests pass on the device.
* Test creating new contact with First Name, Last Name, phone number and email address
** enter the phone number 6175551212 and verify it's formatted as (617)555-1212
* Test editing contact: add additional email, additional phone number, modify existing phone number
* Test deleting a contact
* Test calling a contact from contact details
* Test messaging a contact from contact details
* Test setting a profile picture for the contact from contact details
* Test favoriting/unfavoriting a contact
* Test switching between "Favorite" view and "All" view
* Add more than a page full of contacts such that you have to scroll, they should all have fist names that start with different letters. Then test the following:
** click on a contact, then press back. make sure the contact is visible in the list
** scroll the list to the top, then create a new contact with name starting with "Z". Ensure when creation complete the new contact is visible in the list.
* Test creating a new contact from a dialer-app call log entry
* Test adding a phone number to an existing contact from dialer-app call log entry
* Test adding a phone number to an existing contact from a messaging-app conversation
* Test the Contacts tab in the dialer-app and make sure you can call a contact by selecting contact from there
* Test the Contacts tab in the dialer-app and make sure you can open a contacts details from there
* Google Sync 
** Start with an empty address book. Verify that first time the app is run you are prompted to create a Google Account.
** Verify after entering Google credentials you are returned to address book app automatically
** Verify that your Google contacts are correctly displayed in the address book app.
** Create a contact in your address book that only has a phone number. Verify it is correctly synced to Google.
* VCard export
** Open Gmail webapp and send a message to your desktop. Choose the attach button and select a contact from Contact app to attach
** Send the message
** Open the message on your desktop and download the vcard attachment
** Open the vcard attachment in a text editor and verify that all of the fields contained in the Contact are correctly populated.
* Test contact search (bug #1400468 - This test is already covered by the unit-test: tests/qml/tst_ContactListModel.qml)
** Add the following contacts:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Phone Number
|-
| Ubuntu Phone
| 123-456
|-
| Foo Bar
| 456-789
|-
| Number 13
| 789-0000
|}
** Try to search for: "00" should return only one contact: "Number 13"
** Try to search for: "1" should return two contacts: "Ubuntu Phone", "Number 13"
** Try to search for: "456" should return two contacts: "Ubuntu Phone", "Foo Bar"
** Try to search for: "Number" should return one contact: "Number 13"
* Test multi-line field entry
** copy some multiline text from webbrowser
** create a new contact
** paste the clipboard into one of the address fields for the contact
** save the contact
** then try to edit the contact, change some other fields
** verify should be able to edit the contact normally and save the changes
* Test frequent called list
** Make sure that you have more then 5 contacts on your frequent called list
*** You need to make calls to different contacts to get the list populated
** Make sure that you have more then 5 contacts on your favorite list
** Open address-book-app and go to favorite list
** Scroll the list until the first favorite contact became partially visible
** Click on the first favorite contact
** The list should move to a position where the clicked contact became fully visible
* Test vcard import
** Import a vcard into contacts app using content-hub:
*** You can use gmail webapp or messaging app to receive vcards on the phone:
*** Example vcard: <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu_contacts.vcf|ubuntu_contacts.vcf]]</nowiki>
** Test if a list with imported contacts appear
** Test if the imported contact was imported to default address-book.
* Test change the default address-book:
** Open address-book app
** Enter on settings page
** Select a different "Default address book"
** Close settings page
** Do a bottom edge swipe to create a new contact
** Check if the selected address-book is the one that you choose on settings page.
** Save the contact
** Open the recent created contact and check if the address-book is the correct one 
** Re-run the "Test vcard import" after changing the default address book and make sure the imported vcard is created on the default address book
** Create a new online account and enable contact sync on it
** then open address book settings and make sure the new account is displayed on the list
** make sure the new account is not set by default
** Delete the account from online accounts that is currently set as default in address book
** verify that default account in address book returns to "Personal"

==== Keyboard navigation ====
** Test if all shortcuts are working:
 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Shortcut
| Page
| Action
|-
| Esc
| all
| Back (Page stack)
|-
| Ctrl + F
| Contact List
| Search
|-
| Ctrl + N
| Contact List
| Bottom edge (create new)
|-
| Ctrl + E
| Contact View
| Edit selected contact
|-
| Ctrl + S
| Contact Editor
| Save current contact
|-
| Ctrl + Deleted
| Contact Editor
| Delete current contact
|}

** Navigation: 
** Contact List Page
*** Contact List:
**** Arrow Up / Arrow Down: Navigate between contacts on the contact list:
***** On top of the list arrow up should focus on search field (if visible)
***** On bottom of the list arrow down should do nothing
*** Search field: 
**** Arrow down should focus on contact list
** Editor page:
*** Tab: should cycle on TextFields
    
** Settings page:
*** Arrow Up / Arrow Down: Navigate between enabled options
*** Enter: Active the selected option
