{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': Webapps (Mobile)
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:webapps-core

=== Test Plan ===

NOTE: This test plan covers *mobile* webapps. For the desktop webapps, please refer to <nowiki>[[Process-Merges-TestPlans-desktop-webapps]]</nowiki>

==== Applications (Phone) ====

===== Facebook =====
* Go to installed apps.
* Click on Facebook web application.
** Facebook app must show up.
* Type credentials and log in.
** A Facebook session is started.
* Scroll and check that your wall displays correctly (*).

===== Twitter: base case =====
* Go to installed apps.
* Click on Twitter web application.
** Twitter app must show up.
* Type credentials and log in.
** A Twitter session is started.

===== Twitter: picture sharing =====
* Make sure that you have a valid twitter account defined,
* Go to installed apps.
* Click on Gallery application (make sure that you have pictures available)
* Select a picture and click on the select action in the top right drawer
* The Twitter application must be listed in the application that you can share with
* Select Twitter
** Twitter app must show up.
** A dialog with the picture in thumbnail and a text area must show up.
* Type some text and click on 'OK',
** The dialog should disappear and the picture should appear in your stream

===== Gmail =====

See the <nowiki>[[Process-Merges-TestPlan-GmailWebapp|GmailWebapp test plan]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu WebApps supported APIs ====

===== MediaHub background playback support =====

* Install SoundMix from the store
* Start the SoundMix app and play a song
* Verify that the song keeps playing in the background, after the app is unfocused (switch to the dash or another app)

===== Other HTML5 APIs =====
* Check that an Alarm can be created with JavaScript.
* Check that Content Hub can be opened with JavaScript.
* Check that Online Accounts can be called with JavaScript.
** Check that enabled accounts can be listed.
** Check authentication token can be retrieved.

* Check that Cordova APIs are available.
** Check that a photo can be taken with Cordova's camera API (Reference Bug:1554202)
