{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlans/ofono
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': https://github.com/rilmodem/ofono
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ofono
 
----

== Low Power Mode Tests ==

=== 1. Activate and Deactivate Low Power Mode ===

==== Purpose ====
Ensure that we can turn on, then off again low power mode. Ensure that low power mode is off on start.

==== Steps: ====

<pre>
}}}

* verify that Fast``Dormancy property is off:
{{{
[ org.ofono.RadioSettings ]
    FastDormancy = 0
</pre>

<pre>
}}}

{{{
</pre>

* verify that Fast``Dormancy property is on:
<pre>
[ org.ofono.RadioSettings ]
    FastDormancy = 1
</pre>

<pre>
}}}

{{{
</pre>

* verify that Fast``Dormancy property is off:
<pre>
[ org.ofono.RadioSettings ]
    FastDormancy = 0
</pre>

==== Verification: ====

While running the test, we will additionally be running

<pre>
}}}

on other shell. Whenever low power mode changes, we must see either
{{{
{RadioSettings} [/ril_0] FastDormancy = True
</pre>
or
<pre>
{RadioSettings} [/ril_0] FastDormancy = False
</pre>
on that shell.

In case low power mode is enabled, we should not see signal strength events like
<pre>
{NetworkRegistration} [/ril_0] Strength = XX
</pre>

'''Note''' - When Fast``Dormancy is on, the modem will emit only events that are considered to be "relevant enough" to wake up the CPU. This does not rule out all events: on krillin Network``Time``Changed events are still emitted, in some cases immediately followed by a Strength event. What we should never see is isolated Strength or Bearer events.

==== Automation Status ====

Automation of the Low Power Mode tests is currently blocked on improvements to the emulator's telephony support.
