{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': qtmir
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:qtmir
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtmir

=== Dependants/Clients ===

* unity8

=== Test Plan ===

Test target device: Nexus 4
Secondary/backup device: Nexus 7 (not supported, but sufficient for this testing)
Nexus 10 does function, but some tests are known to fail as it offers a tablet UI.

Initial set up:

* Install latest image on phone
* Build package containing the code to be landed, push them to and install them on the device
* Reboot the phone

Check all autopilot tests succeed by executing the following command 
  phablet-test-run unity8
and waiting until it completes.

== Manual Tests ==

* Test that opening an application works, the application appears in the correct position on screen, the application receives input.
* Test that closing an application from the spread works
* Open app 1, and app 2. Check that app 2 in the front. Do right edge swipe, check that animation is smooth, that app 1 is not in front and receives input.
* With 1 app open, do left-edge swipe, ensure reveal dash
* Open gallery app, check that panel slides away. Do left-edge swipe, check panel slides back in.
* In dash, tap the "Search" string in the panel. The OSK should appear. Check that you can type. Check switching lens closes causes the OSK to disappear
* Open music app. Play a song. Open another app. Make sure music continues to play while music app in background
* Open various apps (an old school one, a click app, started through indicators) and close them again, verifying that the process is indeed stopped (ps xa | grep -i appname)
* Open WebBrowser app. Open a few more apps, so WebBrowser is OOM killed. Open Twitter app. Tap on a URL. Verify WebBrowser slides in and restarts, at the URL tapped on.
* Open messaging app. Slide up to create a new message. Tap on the camera icon. In content hub tap on the camera app. Take a photo in the camera app. Tap on the big tick. Returned to the messaging app with the image in the text window. Swipe in from the right to reveal the spread. Open spread - ensure there is no "shadow" tile in the spread.
* Reboot device. Wait a minute. Swipe away greeter to reveal Dash. Verify Dash icons all visible.
* Share something from gallery to telegram. Once where telegram is started by the share operation, once with telegram already running in background.

* Plug & unplug the phone into an external monitor and verify Unity8 stays running
