{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlans/ofono
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': https://github.com/rilmodem/ofono
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ofono
 
----

== Supplementary Services Tests ==

=== Requirements ===

* At least two additional phones
* An operator that supports the service:
** CLIR: Vodafone (ES) supports it, Pepephone (ES) does not
** CLIP: Vodafone (ES), Pepephone (ES) support it

=== 1. Activation of calling line identity restriction ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that activating the Calling Line Identity Restriction (CLIR) supplementary service works.

==== Requirements ====
CLIR must be provided by the operator.

==== Steps ====
* test-ss [modem] “#31#”
  The output must be:
  <code>CallingLineRestriction : Operation [ deactivation ] Status [ enabled ]</code>
* test-ss  [modem] "*#31#"
  The output must be:
  <code>CallingLineRestriction : Operation [ interrogation ] Status [ enabled ]</code>
* dial-number [modem] <number>
  Phone <number> should receive a call from a private number, that is, the calling number must not be shown.

=== 2. Deactivation of calling line identity restriction ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that deactivating the Calling Line Identity Restriction (CLIR) supplementary service works.

==== Requirements ====
CLIR must be provided by the operator.

==== Steps ====
* test-ss [modem] “*31#”
  The output must be:
  <code>CallingLineRestriction : Operation [ activation ] Status [ disabled ]</code>
* test-ss  [modem] "*#31#"
  The output must be:
  <code>CallingLineRestriction : Operation [ interrogation ] Status [ disabled ]</code>
* dial-number [modem] <number>
  Phone <number> should receive a call and the calling line must be shown on the screen.

'''Note''' - there is some suspicion that the behavior of CLIR and the status show may be modem-specific.  Please the following bug and pull-request for more details:

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ofono/+bug/1263229
* https://github.com/rilmodem/ofono/pull/100

=== 3. Interrogation of calling line identity presentation ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that we can interrogate the network about the Calling Line Identity Presentation (CLIP) status.

==== Requirements ====
CLIP must be provided by the operator.

==== Steps ====
* test-ss [modem] “*#30#”
  A line with the status must be shown:
  <code>CallingLinePresentation : Operation [ interrogation ] Status [ enabled ]</code>
