{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Test plan for component unity-scope-snappy

** Development branch URL lp:unity-scope-snappy
** Ubuntu Package URL: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-scope-snappy

-------------------

== Test Plan ==

This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they don't miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP

* Install latest Ubuntu Personal image
** WebDM must be on there, but at the time of this writing (07-17-15) WebDM is not in the Ubuntu Personal channel, so you'll need to sideload it.

* Download freshly built MPs from silo PPA and sideload into Ubuntu Personal.

* Open dash, go to "Snappy Scope"
** Verify that there are two categories: "All Categories" and "My Snaps."
** "All Categories" should contain all snaps, installed and otherwise.
** "My Snaps" should only contain installed snaps.

* Do a search in the "Snappy Scope"
** Check result, open app preview.
** Verify it offers option to install.
** Install, verify progress works correctly.
** Verify you can go back and forth in the dash and progress still works.
** Return to the snappy scope, and verify that the snap is now available in the "My Snaps" category.
** Repeat this whole step, installing a different app.
** Open the app preview for the installed app.
** Uninstall, verify progress works correctly.
** Verify that the preview now shows the Install button again.
