{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The source for this document can be gotten from Bazaar:

<pre>
$ bzr cat lp:indicator-datetime/MERGE-REVIEW
</pre>

* '''Checklist for component''': indicator-datetime
* '''Component Test Plan''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/indicator-datetime
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:indicator-datetime
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime

This documents the expections that the project has on what both submitters
and reviewers should ensure that they've done for a merge into the project.

=== MP Submission Checklist Template ===

'''Note: Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket.'''

* Are there any related MPs required for this MP to build/function as expected? Please list.
* Is your branch in sync with latest trunk? (e.g. bzr pull lp:trunk -> no changes)
* Did the code build without warnings?
* Did the tests run successfully?
* Did you perform an exploratory manual test run of your code change and any related functionality?
* If you changed the packaging (debian), did you subscribe the ubuntu-unity team to this MP?
* What device (or emulator) has your component test plan been executed successfully on?
* What manual tests are relevant for this MP?
* Did you include a link to the MR Review Checklist Template to make your reviewer's life easier?

=== MP Review Checklist Template ===

'''Note: Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket.'''

* Have you checked that the submitter has accurately filled out the submitter checklist and has taken no shortcuts?
* Did you run the manual tests listed by the submitter?
* Did you do exploratory testing related to the component you own with the MP changeset included?
* If new features have been added, are the manual tests sufficient to cover them?

=== MP Landing Checklist Template ===

* Ensure that the checklists have been properly filled out by submitter and all reviewers
