{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The source for this document can be gotten from Bazaar:

<pre>
bzr cat lp:indicator-datetime/tests/manual
</pre>

The source is in the standard manual testing format for Ubuntu QA: <nowiki>[[Testing-TestCaseFormat]]</nowiki>

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/unity7-items-check ===
==== Procedure ====
* Log in to a Unity 7 user session
* Go to the panel and click on the DateTime indicator
** Ensure there are items in the menu

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/unity7-greeter-items-check ===
==== Procedure ====
* Start a system and wait for the greeter or logout of the current user session
* Go to the panel and click on the DateTime indicator
** Ensure there are items in the menu

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/unity8-items-check ===
==== Procedure ====
* Login to a user session running Unity 8
* Pull down the top panel until it sticks open
* Navigate through the tabs until "Time & Date" is shown
** Upcoming is at the top of the menu
** The menu is populated with items

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/timezone-change ===
==== Procedure ====
* In System Settings > Time & Date > Time zone, select a different timezone
** When the timezone is selected, the indicator should show the time in that zone
* Reboot the device
** The indicator should continue showing the time in the selected zone

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/timestamp-wakeup ===
==== Procedure ====
* Unplug the phone from any USB connection and put it to sleep
* Reawaken the device.
** The indicator should be showing the correct time.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/new-alarm-wakeup ===
==== Procedure ====
* Create and save an upcoming alarm in ubuntu-clock-app
* Unplug the phone from any USB connection and put it to sleep
** Confirm that the alarm sounds on time even if the phone is asleep.  (Note: if in doubt about sleep you can see in the syslog whether the device actually suspended or whether the suspend was aborted)
** Confirm that the screen comes on when the alarm is triggered.
** Confirm that, when left untouched, the screen will dim 45 seconds after the alarm was triggered.
** Confirm that, when left untouched, the screen will turn off 60 seconds after the alarm was triggered.
** If the device supports haptic feedback, confirm the alarm vibrates.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/calendar-event-reminder-time ===
==== Procedure ====
* Using ubuntu-calendar-app, click on "New Event" to create a calendar event.
* Specify a starting time ("From") to begin an hour plus a few minutes from now.
* Specify a Reminder to trigger 1 hour before the event.
* Save the event in calendar-app.
** Confirm that the event appears in the indicator's upcoming appointments menu section
** Confirm that a reminder appears one hour before the event.
** Note: calendar-app 0.4.600 specifies reminders to occur four times at two-minute intervals, so you will get multiple reminders from this test over eight minutes.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/disabled-alarms ===
==== Procedure ====
* Create and save an upcoming alarm in ubuntu-clock-app
** Confirm that the alarm icon appears next to the current time in unity's indicator display
* Disable the alarm in ubuntu-clock-app
** When all alarms are disabled or removed, the alarm icon should disappear.
* Re-enable the alarm in ubuntu-clock-app
** When the alarm is enabled, the alarm icon should reappear.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/disable-one-time-alarms-after-notification ===
==== Procedure ====
* Create and save an upcoming nonrepeating alarm in ubuntu-clock-app
** Confirm that the alarm icon appears next to the current time in unity's indicator display
* Wait until the alarm time is reached
** Confirm that the alarm notification is shown
** Confirm that the alarm's sound is played while the alarm notification is present
** Confirm that the one-time alarm is disabled after the notification is shown.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/calendar-event-notification ===
==== Procedure ====
* In the calendar app, create and save a new upcoming calendar event that will occur in the next few minutes.
** The datetime indicator's event list should update itself to show this new event.
** Calendar events do not get the alarm icon, so no alarm icon should be shown in the header unless there is also an upcoming alarm set.
* Wait for the event's time to be reached
** The datetime indicator should pop up a non-interactive notification that plays a nonlooping sound.
** The notification should disappear after a moment without requiring user intervention.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/alarm-timezone ===
==== Procedure ====
* In ubuntu-system-settings, change your timezone to a zone you're not in
* In ubuntu-clock-app, create and save an upcoming alarm
** The indicator's menu should show the alarm to click at the specified time
* In ubuntu-system-settings, change back to your correct timezone
** The indicator's menu should still show the alarm to click at the specified time

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/snooze ===
==== Procedure ====
* Create and save an upcoming alarm in ubuntu-clock-app
* When the alarm goes off, press the 'Snooze' button
** The alarm should go away, then reappear N minutes later. By default the N is 5 minutes but will be configurable from ubuntu-clock-app.
* When the snoozed alarm reappears, press the 'OK' button
** This time when the alarm is dismissed, it should not reappear.
** Pressing 'OK' should not cause any other action, eg should not launch ubuntu-clock-app. <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1581089|(Bug #1581089)]]</nowiki>

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/other-vibrations ===
==== Procedure ====
* Test on a device that supports haptic feedback
* Create and save two upcoming alarms in ubuntu-clock-app
* In ubuntu-system-settings' "Sound" page, enable the "Other vibrations" setting
** Confirm that the device vibrates when the next alarm appears.
* Dismiss the alarm.
* In ubuntu-system-settings' "Sound" page, disable the "Other vibrations" setting
** Confirm that the device does not vibrate when the next alarm appears.
* Dismiss the alarm.
 
=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/edited-alarm-wakeup ===
==== Procedure ====
* Edit an alarm that's already passed. (see previous test)
* Unplug the phone from any USB connection and put it to sleep
** Confirm that the alarm sounds on time even if the phone is asleep. (Note: if in doubt about sleep you can see in the syslog whether the device actually suspended or whether the suspend was aborted)
		<dd>Confirm that the screen comes on when the alarm is triggered.<dd>
** If the device supports haptic feedback, confirm the alarm vibrates.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/tell-snap-decision-to-dismiss ===
==== Procedure ====
* Set an alarm and wait for it to arrive.
** Alarm should go off at the specified time
* Press the 'Dismiss' button in the alarm's snap decision popup before the sound stops.
** Popup should disappear
** Sound should stop at the same time, rather than playing til the end of the file.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/change-alarm-sound ===
==== Procedure ====
* Open the clock app
* Swipe up from the bottom
* Click on the + symbol
* Save an alarm for a few minutes time leave everything on default settings
* Click on save
* Click on the alarm
* Change the sound of the alarm
* Click on save
* Let the alarm go off
** The newly-selected sound should play, rather than the previous sound.

=== Test Case: indicator-datetime/silent-mode ===
==== Procedure ====
* Set an alarm and wait for it to arrive.
* From the sound indicator, turn on silent mode.
** Alarm should go off at the specified time and play its sound regardless of silent mode.
* From the sound indicator, turn on silent mode.
* Create a calendar event from the calendar app and wait for it to arrive.
** The calendar event notification should be silent.
* From the sound indicator, turn off silent mode.
* Create a calendar event from the calendar app and wait for it to arrive.
** The calendar event notification should play a sound.

<strong>
    If all actions produce the expected results listed, please <nowiki>[[results#add_result|submit]]</nowiki> a 'passed' result.
    If an action fails, or produces an unexpected result, please <nowiki>[[results#add_result|submit<-a> a 'failed' result and <a href="..-..-buginstructions">file a bug<-a>. Please be sure to include the bug number when you <a href="results#add_result">submit]]</nowiki> your result</strong>.
