{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': bluez
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Ubuntu Packaging Branches''':
** https://code.launchpad.net/~bluetooth/bluez/ubuntu ''(dual-landing)''
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''':
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez
** https://launchpad.net/~ci-train-ppa-service/+archive/ubuntu/stable-phone-overlay/+packages

=== Description ===

This is a test plan for bluez as used by Ubuntu Touch.  It ''does not'' cover scenarios and/or test cases for bluez as installed on the desktop.

=== Basic Tests ===

These tests should be run for every upload, as they cover the basic functionality that bluez provides. 

'''Note''' - make sure to check ''/var/crash'' to ensure that the new version of bluez hasn't crashed and/or triggered other component crashes.

* If Bluetooth isn't enabled on first boot, enable it and reboot.  Verify that BT is still enabled.

* Goto System Settings - Bluetooth, verify that the device is shown as 'Discoverable' and that the correct model name is shown it ( eg. ''BQ Aquaris E4.5'' ).

* Verify that headset and computer devices are displayed in the device list, and that if a BT device such as a headset is powered on, after a short time period ( <= ~1m ), will be displayed in the list.  '''Note''' - Bluetooth Settings currently will not list BT mice or keyboards.

* Verify that a headset can be paired with device.

* Verify that phone calls can be made ( and terminated ) with a headset device.

* Verify that the headset will re-connect...
** when Flight``Mode is enabled/disabled?
** when the headset is powered off and then back on again
** when the device is rebooted?
 
* Enable Flight``Mode, then disable Flight``Mode.  Ensure that Bluetooth recovers.
