{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': upstart-watchdog
* '''Trunk URL''': ubuntu:upstart-watchdog
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart-watchdog

=== Dependents/Clients ===

None; this is a leaf package.

=== Test Plan ===

I want my system/phone to react when a critical service dies so that I know that if the system is up and running, that the critical services (such as receiving voice calls) are also up.

To achieve this, verify that the system is restarted when critical services (those that are defined in upstart to be respawned automatically) get into a respawn loop and are unable to get back into an UP state.

==== System-level services ====

* Identify a service to stop:
<pre>
grep respawn /etc/init/*.conf
</pre>
For example, use "network-manager" or "ofono", which are meant to be respawned by upstart.
* Issue the same "pkill -9" command repeatedly to kill one of the system services from an adb shell.
* Verify that after a few hits, the system no longer responds to input on the console and reboots.

==== Session-level services ====

* Identify a service to stop:
<pre>
grep respawn /usr/share/upstart/sessions/*.conf
</pre>
For example, use "indicator-n" (indicator-network) or "indicator-m" (indicator-messages), which are meant to be respawned by upstart.
* Issue the same "pkill -9" command repeatedly to kill one of the session services from an adb shell.
* Verify that after a few hits, the system no longer responds to input on the console and reboots.
