{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': Autopilot
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/autopilot
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:autopilot
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/autopilot

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they dont miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP'''

==== On the desktop ====
* Build and install packages from the MPs
* Run the autopilot functional and unit tests

==== On the device ====

===== Manual Method =====
* Install image on phone <nowiki>[[#ex-1|example 1]]</nowiki>
* Install freshly build MPs that are needed for landing ("query: best way to build packages that don't build in emulation?")
* Run at least one click app autopilot suite <nowiki>[[#ex-2|example 2]]</nowiki>
* Run the Ubuntu UI Toolkit acceptance tests suite <nowiki>[[#ex-3|example 3]]</nowiki>
* Run the Unity8 acceptance tests suite <nowiki>[[#ex-4|example 4]]</nowiki>

===== Automatic Method =====

* Run http://q-jenkins:8080/job/autopilot-release-gatekeeper/
** Set the silo PPA in the PPA parameter (without the 'ppa:' part of the PPA string).
** You'll need to watch the job. Devices often become stuck, or fail to boot.
* Once the job is complete, compare test failures with those found on the dashboard. re-run any failing tests, and generally ensure that your changes haven't broken anything.
  

=== Dependents/Clients ===

Any project with autopilot acceptance tests may be affected by changes to Autopilot.

An example list (i.e. those found in the Image SmokeTest Dashboard):
* ubuntu-clock-app-autopilot
* ubuntu-system-settings-online-accounts-autopilot
* ubuntu-ui-toolkit-autopilot
* ubuntu-weather-app-autopilot
* ubuntu-terminal-app-autopilot
* ubuntu-rssreader-app-autopilot
* ubuntu-filemanager-app-autopilot
* ubuntu-calculator-app-autopilot
* dropping-letters-app-autopilot
* music-app-autopilot
* calendar-app-autopilot
* address-book-app-autopilot
* messaging-app-autopilot
* dialer-app-autopilot
* camera-app-autopilot
* notes-app-autopilot
* unity8-autopilot
* webbrowser-app-autopilot
* gallery-app-autopilot
* mediaplayer-app-autopilot
* friends-app-autopilot

=== Examples ===

[Example 1] Installing image on phone:
<pre>
$ ubuntu-device-flash --channel=ubuntu-touch/devel-proposed
</pre>

[Example 2] Setup and run a click application acceptance test suite:
<pre>
$ phablet-click-test-setup
$ phablet-config autopilot --dbus-probe enable
$ phablet-test-run -v dropping_letters_app # or notes_app etc.
</pre>

[Example 3] Setup and run Ubuntu UI Toolkit tests
<pre>
$ phablet-test-run -v ubuntuuitoolkit
</pre>

[Example 4] Run Unity8 acceptance tests:
<pre>
$ phablet-test-run -n -v unity8
</pre>
