{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The source for this document can be gotten from Bazaar:

<pre>
bzr cat lp:indicator-transfer/tests/manual
</pre>

The source is in the standard manual testing format for Ubuntu QA: <nowiki>[[Testing-TestCaseFormat]]</nowiki>

=== Test Case: indicator-transfer/visibility ===
==== Procedure ====
    <dt>Start downloading an image from the Browser to the Gallery.
        (In the Browser, tap-and-hold on an image, choose 'Save image'
        in the popup, and select 'Gallery' at the 'Open with ' prompt.</dt>
** If the indicator wasn't already visible in the panel, it should appear as the transfer begins.
** After the last transfer finished, the indicator should disappear from the panel.
</dt>

=== Test Case: indicator-transfer/download-an-image ===
==== Procedure ====
* NB: To conduct this test, you'll need an image large enough that downloading it takes a few seconds. One such file is http://edmullen.net/test/rc.jpg
* Start downloading an image from the Browser to the Gallery. (In the Browser, tap-and-hold on an image, choose 'Save image' in the popup, and select 'Gallery' at the 'Open with ' prompt.)
** If the indicator wasn't already visible in the panel, it should appear as the transfer begins.
** In the 'Ongoing Transfers' section, the transfer should appear
** In the 'Ongoing Transfers' section, a 'Pause all' button should appear
** While transfer is active, the indicator's icon should indicate activity
** While transfer is active, the menuitem's progressbar should show its progress
** As the transfer finishes, its menuitem should move from the 'Ongoing' to 'Successful' section
** As the transfer finishes, the indicator's icon should change to indicate an idle state
** As the transfer finishes, the 'Pause all' button should disappear
** After the transfer is finished, the indicator should disappear from the panel.
* Click on the completed transfer's menuitem
** The gallery app should launch
* Press the 'Clear all' button.
** The transfer should be cleared from the menu.
** The 'Clear all' button should disappear
</dt>

<strong>
    If all actions produce the expected results listed, please <nowiki>[[results#add_result|submit]]</nowiki> a 'passed' result.
    If an action fails, or produces an unexpected result, please <nowiki>[[results#add_result|submit<-a> a 'failed' result and <a href="..-..-buginstructions">file a bug<-a>. Please be sure to include the bug number when you <a href="results#add_result">submit]]</nowiki> your result</strong>.
