{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== mako/rtm #134, fresh flash, wipe, AT&T SIM, US ( limited to edge ), .writable_image ==

=== auto-pilot tests ===

''** install messaging_app_autopilot & python3-evdev; reboot **''

* unlock screen & run pin screen on via powerd-cli
* run messaging_app tests:
** ran 15/15 - OK!
** /var/crash: urfkill

''** install dialer_app_autopilot; reboot **''

* run dialer_app tests:
** ran 8/8 - OK!
** re-run: 8/8 - OK!

* run messaging_app tests:
** re-run: 15/15 - OK!
** /var/crash - OK!  ???

''** install indicator-netowrk-autopilot; reboot **''

* run indicator_network tests:
** same failure as on krillin ( ping Antti/Jussi )

''** fresh install of rtm #135 --wipe **''

== basic tests ==

* call in / out - ok
* sms in / out - ok
* call / sms wake - ok
* gprs connection - ok
* verify no ofono crashes - ok

== dbus changes ==

N/A

== sim ==

=== sim presence ===

==== 1. no sim(s) - modem online - OK ====

* no services stopped

==== 2. no sim(s) - modem offline - OK ====

* '''NOTE''': mako still is different than krillin; needs to be quirked in test script
* no services stopped ( just used flight-mode )
* see existing bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-rtm/+source/ofono/+bug/1366186

==== 3. sim - modem offline - OK ====

* no services stopped ( just used flight-mode )

==== 4. SIM present - Modem Online - OK ====

==== 5. SIM Removal Notification - OK ====

=== sim pin/puk tests ===

==== 1. SIM PIN Locked - OK ====

==== 2. SIM PIN Retries - OK** ====

* mako only reports a single PIN ''Retries'' count; once PUK-locked, our current impl doesn't report PUK ''Retries''; also as with krillin, ''Retries'' isn't intialized/updated till a failed attempt occurs.
** ACTION: create bug for lack of PUK ''Retries''

==== 3. SIM PUK Locked - OK ====

==== 4. Enable PIN Locking - OK ====

==== 5. Disable PIN Locking - OK ====

==== 6. Changing a PIN - OK ====

== Voicecall ==

=== Basic Calling ===

==== 1. Outgoing Call - Unanswered - OK ====

==== 2. Outgoing Call - Dropped - OK ** ====

* ''**'' - the test case isn't clear whether or not the call is rejected or answered and then hung up.

=== Emergency Calling ===

''Not run due to lack of infrastructure.''

=== Call Hold/Swap ===

==== 1. Hold an Active Call - OK ====

==== 2. Swap Between Calls -  OK** ====

''** - modified test case''

==== 3. Hangup Call On-Hold - OK ====

==== 4. Hangup Active Call & Swap to Call On-Hold - OK ====

==== 5. Hangup Active Call While Call on Hold - OK ====

==== 6. Verify Held Call Notification - N/A ====

''Can't test in US.  AT&T doesn't support Call Hold Suppl service.''

=== Multiparty ===

==== 1. Create Multi-Party Call - OK ====

==== 2. Split Multi-Party Call - OK ====

=== Call Barring ===

'''Note''' - no test cases run due to lack of support for call barring by US operators.

=== Call Forwarding ===

==== 1. Verify Interface Availablility / Default Properties - OK ====

==== 2. Test basic querying and property setting - FAIL ====

'''Note''' - the script is broken with multiple errors ( mixed tabs/spaces, problems specifying modem ).

==== 3. Test call forwarding unconditional - OK ====

==== 4. Test call forwarding when mobile is busy - OK ====

==== 5. Test call forwarding when user does not respond - OK ====

==== 6. Test call forwarding when mobile is not reachable - OK ====

==== 7. Test setting globally call forwarding - OK ====

==== 8. Test setting globally conditional call forwarding - OK ====

==== 9. Test that call forwarding works - FAIL ====

'''Note''' - the script is broken with multiple errors ( mixed tabs/spaces, problems specifying modem ).

=== Call Waiting ===

==== 1. Activation of Call waiting - OK ====

==== 2. Deactivation of call waiting - OK ====

=== Supplementary Services ===

==== 1. Activation of calling line identity restriction - OK ====

==== 2. Deactivation of calling line identity restriction - OK ====

==== 3. Interrogation of calling line identity presentation - OK ====

== MMS Conext Manipulation ==

'''N/A''' ( tested on krillin/rtm; not device-specific )

== Radio Settings ==

==== 1. Verify Interface Availablility / Tech Preference - OK ====

==== 2. Change technology preference - OK ====

==== 3. Check storage of technology preference - OK ** ===

''** BUG? mako changes "any" to "umts" after reboot.''

== USSD Tests ==

==== 1. Send a USSD command with a text reply - OK ====

==== 2. Navigate through a USSD-based menu - N/A** ====

''** No US operators support features which use USSD menus.''

==== 3. Receive a USSD Notification - N/A** ====

''** No US operators support features which use USSD notifications.''

== Low Power Mode ==

==== 1. Activate and Deactivate Low Power Mode - OK ====
