{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Test plan for component ubuntu-download-manager

** Component checklist https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/ubuntu-download-manager  [not there yet]
** Trunk URL lp:ubuntu-download-manager
** Ubuntu Package URL: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-download-manager

-------------------

== Test Plan ==

This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they dont miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP

=== Dependents/Clients ===

* sytem-image-upgrade
* unity-scope-click
* ubuntu-system-settings
* nuntium
* all other apps that download files from the internet using the service.

=== General tests ===

* Install latest (trusty-proposed) image on phone.

* Install freshly build MPs from silo ppa.

* Scope realted tests.

** Do a search for a not installed app.

** Check result, open app preview.

** Verify it offers option to install.

** Install, verify progress works correctly.

** Verify you can go back and forth in the dash and progress still works (use a larger app, like sleepytime).

** Verify that you can use the new installed app.

* Single file download

** Copy the code found <nowiki>[[Process-Merges-TestPlan-ubuntu-download-manage-test_file_download|here]]</nowiki> to a text file named for example test_file_download.py
  
** Execute the code python test_file_download.py from a terminal.
  
** Check that the file was downloaded correctly.
* Data URI tests
** Grap the same script used for file downloads but provide a data uri such as '''data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAP///////yH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw=='''
** Use the ubuntu touch browser, navigate to http://images.google.com search and image and download the thumdnail.

* Failed click upgrade clean-up:
** Update a click package from system settings
** Monitor the process list, when pkcon starts kill it
** Check that the click package has been removed from ~/.local/share/ubuntu-download-manager/Downloads

* Per app download queue
** Start multiple downloads in the browser, verify that only one is downloading at a time
** Whilst the browser downloads are still running start a download in another app (e.g. update a click package from system settings, download a podcast in Podbird or install a click app from the store) and verify that it downloads immediately without waiting for the browser downloads to finish.

 
=== Update tests ===

* 3G updates

** Flash an image previous to the latests one (trusty-proposed) on phone.

** Install freshly build MPs from silo ppa.

** Disable !WiFi on your phone and connect via 3G/mobile data.
 
** Got to system settings and check for updates.

** Perform an update.

* !WiFi updates

** Flash an image previous to the latests one (trusty-proposed) on phone.

** Install freshly build MPs from silo ppa.

** Disable 3G on your phone and connect via !WiFi.
 
** Got to system settings and check for updates.

** Perform an update.

=== Network tests ===

* Install latest (trusty-proposed) image on phone.

* Install freshly build MPs from silo ppa.
 
* Disable 3G/mobile data.

* Copy the code found <nowiki>[[Process-Merges-TestPlan-ubuntu-download-manage-test_file_download|here]]</nowiki> to a text file named for example test_file_download.py
  
* Execute the code python test_file_download.py from a terminal.

* Enable/disable !WiFi during the download and check that progress is printed accordingly.

* Check that the file was downloaded correclty.

=== MMS tests ===

* Install latest (devel-proposed) image on the device.
* Install freshly build MPs from silo ppa.
* Send an MMS (with a proxy and without a proxy, requires APNs with those capabilities)
* Receive an MMS (with a proxy and without a proxy, requires APNs with those capabilities)
