{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Landing Plan For Networking Stack ==
All test should be run once on each form factor, All test should pass to allow landing.

=== Critical Test ===
If any test fails here Stop and contact the developers Immediately and fail the silo as a rebuild will be required.

==== Connect To a Network Wifi ====
Description: On a freshly installed system citrain install the silo to test, forget all old networks, connect to an AP.
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Fresh install on device
# Enable adb, open system setting→about→developer mode enable adb, Allow the pc to connect
# citrain device-upgrade <silo_to_install> <pin/password_for_device>
# On reboot goto system settings→wifi→<connection_name>→forget connection, close system settings
# Create a connection from the indicator to your AP
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure the connection is up, ap name should be listed in green
# Using adb run ip route get 8.8.8.8 ensure feed back is something like 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.1.1 dev wlan0  src 192.168.1.101 cache
# Open the browser app and ensure it connects to start.ubuntu.com

==== Disconnect From a Network Wifi ====
Description: With an wifi connection established turn off wifi and ensure the connection is now dropped
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Drag down the network indicator
# Tap the wifi button
# Wifi icon is dropped in favour of the telecoms service type
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure the ap details are now in white
# Using adb run ip route get 8.8.8.8 ensure feed back is something like 8.8.8.8 via 31.121.110.1 dev rmnet5  src 31.121.110.246 cache

==== Reconnect to a Network Wifi ====
Description: re-enable wifi ensure it reconnects to wifi
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Drag down the network indicator
# Tap the wifi button
# Wifi icon is displayed again
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure the ap details are now in white
# Using adb run ip route get 8.8.8.8 ensure feed back is something like 8.8.8.8 via 192.168.1.1 dev wlan0  src 192.168.1.101 cache
# Open the browser app and ensure it connects to start.ubuntu.com

==== Forget a Network Wifi ====
Description: Enter system settings wifi and forget the current ap, ensure it is no longer listed
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Open system settings
# Tap on wifi
# Tap on the arrow at the end of the current wifi connection
# In the new page tap on Forget This network
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure there is no network listing for wifi.

==== Connect To a Network Cellular ====
Description: With wifi now disabled connect to cellular and ensure there is a connection
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Reboot the device with no wifi connection
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure there is a entry like /234304124752426/context1  b9deb4ff-8a12-fd52-641e-732a03634085  gsm              ril_1   in green
# Using adb run ip route get 8.8.8.8 you should see something like 8.8.8.8 via 31.121.110.1 dev rmnet5  src 31.121.110.246 cache
# Open the browser app and ensure that start.ubuntu.com connects.

==== Disconnect From a Network Cellular ====
Description: Open system settings and disable cellular data losing the connection.
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Openn system-settings→cellular and disable Cellular data
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure the entry for cellular is now white and not green
# Using adb run ip route get 8.8.8.8 this should fail
# Open web browser app start.ubuntu.com should fail to load

==== Reconnect to a Network Cellular ====
Description: Open system settings and enable cellular data reconnecting the cellular connection.
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Openn system-settings→cellular and enable Cellular data
# Using adb run nmcli c and ensure there is a entry like /234304124752426/context1  b9deb4ff-8a12-fd52-641e-732a03634085  gsm              ril_1   in green
# Using adb run ip route get 8.8.8.8 you should see something like 8.8.8.8 via 31.121.110.1 dev rmnet5  src 31.121.110.246 cache
# Open the browser app and ensure that start.ubuntu.com connects.
=== Main Tests ===
If any test fails here Continue testing after contacting the developers, once testing is completed fail the silo as a rebuild will be required. On fix retest the critical and test the fix should be enough.

==== Move out of Wifi range and connect to cellular ====
Description: Install the terminal app for monitoring, run the monitoring app and move out of wifi range and have cellular take over.
<<BR>>
STEPS:
# Reconnect to the wifi ap
# Navigate to the apps store, search for terminal, install the core apps terminal app
# Open the terminal app
# Type in nmcli m
# Walk out of wifi range
# The terminal app will display that it switched to cellular with something like '/234100516669663/context1' is now the primary connection      wlan0: device removed
# Open a new tab in the terminal app
# In that run nmcli c the wifi should be in white not green
# Then run ip route get 8.8.8.8 the ip address should be the cellular networks not your local network address

==== Move back into Wifi range and reconnect dropping cellular ====

==== Reconnect to a forgotten ap ====

==== DNS route on wifi ====

==== DNS route on cellular ====

==== DNS route when switching from wifi to cellular ====

==== DNS route when switching from cellular to wifi ====

==== Switch from 4g/3g to 2g connection is established ====

==== Switch from 2g to 3g/4g connection is established ====

==== Enable flight mode ====

==== Disable flight mode ====

==== Connect to a vpn connection ====

==== Disconnect from a vpn connection ====

==== Enable hotspot ====

==== Disable Hotspot ====

==== Connect to an enterprise AP ====

==== Disconnect from an enterprise AP ====

==== Forget an enterprise AP ====

=== Dual Sims ===

==== Switch data connection between sims ====

==== Switch data connection between technologies on each sim ====

=== Edge Cases ===
If any test fails here Continue testing after contacting the developers, once testing is completed fail the silo as a rebuild will be required. On fix retest the critical and test the fix should be enough.

==== Location fix on wifi only ====

==== Location fix on cellular only ====

==== Reset the phone, access the terms and conditions for here maps ====

==== Play music from internet while moving from wifi to cellular ====

==== Play video from internet while moving from wifi to cellular ====

==== Switch between 2 ap with same Essid ====

==== Enable Wifi with flight mode enabled ====

=== Future Cases ===
Don't run these till the feature land

==== Location fix on cellular with no data connection ====
