{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': telephony-service
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/system-apps
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:telephony-service
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/telephony-service

=== Dependents/Clients ===

* dialer-app: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/dialer-app
* messaging-app: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/messaging-app

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they dont miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP'''

* Install latest (trusty-proposed) image on phone
* Install freshly build MPs that are needed for landing
* Ensure that all unit tests pass in CI during the build in Jenkins.
* After making a phone call, ensure that '''telephony-service-handler''' and '''telephony-service-indicator''' are running
* Ensure of all of the dialer-app tests pass: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/dialer-app
* Ensure of all of the messaging-app tests pass: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/messaging-app
* Lock the phone and send the phone an sms. Verify the screen turns on if not on a call.
* Lock the phone and send the phone an MMS. Verify the screen turns on if not on a call.
* Verify that the phone beeps 3 times when an active call is hung up by the remote side.
* Verify that the phone beeps twice if you get a call while on an active call. The screen should not be automatically turned on if the phone is up to your ear.
* Verity that there are no errors on $HOME/.cache/upstart/ofono-setup.log
* Ring Tone
** Change the ringtone in system-settings
** Call the phone
** verify that the new ringtone is played
* Text tone
** change the text tone in system-setting
** send a text message to the phone
** verify that the new texttone is played
* Silence Ringer (ignore call)
** call the phone
** while incoming call notification is showing and ringer is ringing, press the power button
** verify the screen goes black and ringtone/vibration stops
** verify the caller does not go right to voicemail but continues to hear the phone ring so they don't know they are being screened
** at any point before the caller hangs up or goes to voice mail, press the power button again
** the incoming call notification should still be visible and you can answer, decline or quick message
 
 
 
