{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': qtubuntu-sensors
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/system-apps
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:qtubuntu-sensors
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qtubuntu-sensors

=== Dependents/Clients ===

* Qt Applications

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they don't miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP'''

Setup:

* Install latest image on phone
* Build, push and install all MRs related to the landing
** Make sure test suite for qtubuntu-sensors run during build
* Reboot

=== Manual Tests ===

* Launch messaging-app, rotate device and make sure the application rotates accordingly.
* Rotate keyboard in a rotating app, make sure it rotates at the same time and direction as the base app.
* Ensure that GPS is enabled (in the location indicator), open the browser, browse to http://maps.google.com and accept to give access to your location when prompted. Verify that google maps eventually locates you correctly.
* Install SensorsStatus from the store. Run it and confirm that Orientation events are still causing phone apps to rotate accordingly. Make sure that the settings Orientation Lock works accordingly too.
