{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Checklist for component''': connectivity-api
* '''Component Test Plan''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/connectivity-api
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:connectivity-api
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/connectivity-api

=== MP Submission Checklist Template ===

'''Note: Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket.'''

<pre> comment/dotted
* Is your branch in sync with latest trunk (e.g. bzr pull lp:trunk -> no changes)
* Did you build your software in a clean sbuild/pbuilder chroot or ppa?
* Did you build your software in a clean sbuild/pbuilder armhf chroot or ppa?
</pre>
* Has your component test plan been executed successfully on emulator, N4?
<pre> comment/dotted
* Has a 5 minute exploratory testing run been executed on N4?
* If you changed the packaging (debian), did you subscribe a core-dev to this MP?
* If you changed the UI, did you subscribe the design-reviewers to this MP?
* What components might get impacted by your changes?
</pre>
* Have you requested review by the teams of these owning components?

=== MP Review Checklist Template ===
Note: Please ensure you include the following form filled out and submitted along side your code to the MP ticket.
Note: A Reviewer usually is responsible for a single component; since we ask for reviewers to be subscribed that might see an impact by this MP this mean that we get one-to-many reviewers contributing to the MP review process.

Below the checklist that a reviewer should follow taking the viewpoint of his component, which might or might not be the same as the component this MP is targeted against.

* Are any changes against your component pending/needed to land the MP under review in a functional state and are those called out explicitly by the submitter?
* Did you do exploratory testing related to the component you own with the MP changeset included?
* Has the submitter requested review by all the relevant teams/reviewers?
* If you are the reviewer owning the component the MP is against, have you checked that submitter has accurately filled out the submitter checklist and has taken no shortcut?

=== MP Landing Checklist Template ===
* ensure that the checklists have been properly filled out by submitter and all reviewers
