{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== uNav ==

uNav is a map viewer & turn-by-turn GPS navigator for car, bike & walking. 

* '''Trunk''': lp:unav
* '''Contact''': Marcos Costales, popey(irc), nik90(irc)
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': no deb packages, click only
* Default on the phone since OTA-10

=== Dependency/Clients ===
None.

=== Feature: First Run ===

First run features like trust-store prompt, welcome wizard and basic usage of uNav.

==== Test Case: unav/welcome-wizard ====
* Delete ~/.cache/navigation.costales & ~/.config/navigation.costales
* Launch uNav
* Welcome screen should appear
* Swipe left/right in both portrait/landscape orientation to check if it works correctly.
* Pressing Skip or "Enjoy freedom button" (last slide) to quit the welcome wizard

==== Test Case: unav/first-run ====
* On first run, uNav should ask for location permission
* Test app state after approving and denying location access

==== Test Case: unav/basic-use ====
* Drag map around, try zooming in and out.
* Click on center position. Map should center on your position
* Drag the map. Center position button in header should be enabled then waiting for a click (that click will center position)

=== Feature: Navigation ===

Test core feature which includes navigating a route and simulating a route.

==== Test Case: unav/simulate-route ====
* Launch uNav
* Long-press on any point in the map and let go. You should see a popup for that location. Let's call this point A.
* Press the network button in the popup (right-most button)
* Now long-press another point in the map and let go. You should see a popup for that location. Let's call this point B.
* Press the network button in the popup
** uNav should now simulate a route between point A and point B.

==== Test Case: unav/start-navigation ====
* Launch uNav
* Press the route button in the header
* You should be shown a route page with a grid view of icons. Press the search icon.
* Search for any near by location
* Press on a result. You should be shown a popup of this location on the map
* Press the navigate button in the popup.
* uNav should now grab your current location and show a route between your current location and the location you chose.
** You should then be shown two buttons to either start navigation or cancel navigation.

=== Feature: Settings Page ===

Tests to check if the setting options are applied correctly.

==== Test Case: unav/change-navigation-mode ====
* Launch uNav
* Press the locate me header button (circular button)
* uNav should center the map on your location and show a blue triangle indicating your position
* Press the settings header button to open the Settings Page
* Change Navigation Mode to Bicycle
* Close the settings page
** Ensure that current location of user is now indicated by a red circle.

==== Test Case: unav/change-measurement-unit ====
* Launch uNav
* Press the settings header button to open the settings page
* Change the measurement unit from kilometers to miles
* Ensure this is obeyed by the app. One place is the favourites page where the distance to the favourite location is shown. This must be in the unit you set. (Note: The distance is only shown if the current user position is known, which you can do by pressing the center button).

==== Test Case: unav/clear-search-history ====
* Launch uNav
* Press the settings header button to open the settings page
* Press the clear history settings option
* Open the search page (in the route page)
* History must be empty

=== Feature: Sharing Location ===

Test sharing/receiving position with other apps.

==== Test Case: unav/share-location ====
* Launch uNav
* Long press on any location in the map and let go.
* You should see a popup of that location
* Press the share button
* You should see apps that you can share the location to. Click on any app, for example Dekko
** This should open the app you share to and show you a url which looks like http://unav-go.github.io/?/p=lat,lng

==== Test Case: unav/catch-url ====
* Share any position in uNav to telegram (steps described in the test above)
* Close uNav
* Open telegram and click on that share message
** uNav should open with that message

=== Feature: Point-of-Interest (POI) ===

POI are interesting locations like restaurant, supermarkets, airports etc that OSM has a database of in all locations. The tests below interact with POIs.

==== Test Case: unav/add-favourite-poi ====
* Launch uNav
* Long press on any location in the map and let go.
* You should see a marker and a popup of that location appear
* Press the star button
* You should see a textfield appear in the popup where you should enter the favourite name
* Press enter after you have typed the name
** uNav should show you the Favorites page where the favourite location you just added should be listed.

==== Test Case: unav/rename-favourite-poi ====
* Launch uNav
* Add a favourite POI (as described in the previous test)
* Press the route button header button and choose Favourites to open the Favourites page
* Swipe left a favourite to rename it.
* Edit dialog appears where you can enter a new name
* Enter an already existing name. 
** A warning message and a overwrite button should be visible
* Enter a different name which doesn't exist already.
** The update button should be visible
* Press the update button
** Favourite location name should be updated in the list

==== Test Case: unav/delete-favourite-poi ====
* Launch uNav
* Add a favourite POI (as described in the previous test)
* Press the route button header button and choose Favourites to open the Favourites page
* Swipe right a favourite to delete it.
* Press the delete leading edge action.
** Favourite location should be removed from the list

==== Test Case: unav/nearby-poi-current-location ====
* Launch uNav
* Press the Center header button (circular button)
* uNav should center the map on your location and show a blue triangle indicating your position
* Press the route header button
* You should see a grid of icons.
* Press the nearby icon. You should now be taken to the nearby page.
* In the nearby page, press current location
* This should show you a list of categories. Press any category
* This should now show you a list of POIs (of the category you chose) near your current location
* Press on the POIs header button. 
** It should displays markers for every POI near your current location in the map.

==== Test Case: unav/nearby-poi-chosen-location ====
* Launch uNav
* Long press on any location in the map and let go.
* You should see a popup and marker of that location
* Press the nearby button
* You should see a list of nearby categories. Choose a category
* You should now see a list of POIs (of the category you chose) near the chosen location
* Press on a POI from the list. 
** It should be shown in the map with a marker and popup
