{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Test plan for component''': storage-provider-onedrive
* '''Component Checklist''': <backlink to your component checklist>
* '''Trunk URL''': lp:storage-provider-onedrive
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/storage-provider-onedrive

=== Dependents/Clients ===

Keeper

=== Test Plan ===

'''This test plan is not supposed to be complete; use it to guide your manual testing so they dont miss big functional areas that are part in the component; also this should be used as guideline to inspire the exploratory testing which should be adapted smartly based on the real content of a MP'''

{i} At the time of writing, It's recommended to use xenial with stable-overlay-phone ppa to run keeper to do system backup to onedrive.

* Create a clean xenial environment with liveCD or desktop iso. 
* Add stable phone overlay ppa
<pre>
                   sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/stable-phone-overlay
</pre>
* Add bileto ticket ppa
<pre>
                  sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ci-train-ppa-service/{$TICKET_NUMBER}
</pre>
* Fresh apt cache and upgrade
<pre>
                  sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade
</pre>
* Install the dependencies 
<pre>
                  sudo apt-get install account-plugin-microsoft \
                                                        qml-module-ubuntu-onlineaccounts-client \
                                                        ubuntu-app-launch \
                                                        ubuntu-system-settings \
                                                        keeper \
                                                        qml-keeper \
                                                        bzr \
                                                        storage-provider-onedrive
</pre>
* Create an online account with microsoft account
<pre>
                 Run system-settings from terminal to launch ubuntu-system-setting
                 Click "Accounts" ---> "Add account..." ---> "Microsoft" 
                 Login onedrive with Microsoft account and grant "OneDrive for Ubuntu" access to your onedrive
                 After login, please click "Microsoft" account and enable Onedrive storage provider to access the account.
</pre>
* Fetch the test application
<pre>
                 bzr branch lp:~marcustomlinson/+junk/keeper-test
                 cd keeper-test
                 qmlscene app/Main.qml
    </pre>
* Ensure there're some files under following folders and pick one or more in test app, then click "Start Backup"
<pre>
                 ~/Music
                 ~/Document
                 ~/Videos
                 ~/Pictures
</pre>
* After "Backup Completed" tips show up,  go to  <nowiki>[[https://onedrive.live.com|onedrive]]</nowiki> website to check if there's the regarding file existing on website.

'''As an access token of onedrive is only valid within one hour, so it failed to backup for sure if the process last long period of time. Once this case occurs, please remove the microsoft account and login again, then we can get a new access token. We need to improve somehow in the future.There's an open bug here to track this issue <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/storage-framework/+bug/1616756|Bug:1616756]]</nowiki>''
