{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Project Name ==
 '''ProDigg'''

== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' New

 '''Type:''' Proposed

 '''Last updated on:''' 2007-07-08

 '''Location:''' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/prodigg

 '''Links:'''

=== Mission ===
* To make it easier for web users to bookmark, promote, enhance and share web content. 
* To improve search quality for socially popular web content.

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
* Create an advanced web content semantization (aka. social bookmarking) service with following features:
** Provides capability for posting/reading/updating an extended set of relevant semantics for web content (stories, audio record, video clip, web tv channel, radio show, radio channel,..)
** Tight integration (read/write) with multiple existing social bookmarking services.
** The service should allow users to easily extend set of semantics collected. 

* Create one or more web clients that utilize the service. (standalone and plugins for existing clients)
** ProDigg publishing interface for posting/updating/reading extended set of semantics for web content.
** ProDigg translations site (popular stories translated in your language)
** ProDigg translations search (ProDugg content in your language)
** ProDigg video news channel (with subtitles, overdub in your language,...)
** ProDigg audio/video news search engine
** Other ProDigg clients

* Integrate service with existing web clients 
** (browsers, news readers, video players, blogs,...) 

* Create and publish API for read/write access to the service for 3rd party client development and integration.

=== Use Cases ===

* Brandon finds an interesting news article and wants to quickly/easily promote it to a wider audience by posting it to digg, del.icio.us, reddit, and many other social bookmarking services he uses. 
* Robin reads a very usefull howto page and wants to request/recommend it for translation into other languages. 
* Alex sees an important video news clip and wants to promote it internationally by adding subtitles to the video in a few languages he knows.
* An independent journalist wants to promote her new online video report clip. She wants to post it  to social bookmarking services and make it easier to find by providing more specific description of the clip like Date of event, location, language, relevance (local/regional/national/international),
* Dan wants to translate stories that have the most votes/requests for translation.
* Dan also likes to add subtitles in all 12 languages he knows to most dugg videos.  

* Slava wants to subscribe to a feed of most popular stories that were translated into russian.
* Zahar wants to watch a video news channel that plays popular world news clips  that are in ukranian language or have ukranian subtitles available. 
 

=== Objectives ===
* Outline major milestones or general completion criteria
** tbd

=== Communication Plan ===
 Team will utilize our mailing list ''(tbd)'' and associated forum site [tbd] for communication.  

 '''Project Lead:''' ''Slava Mikerin''
  

 '''Project Team:''' ''tbd''
 

 '''Meeting Details:''' ''Next meeting on...'' ''tbd''
 

=== Quality Management Plan ===
 tbd

== Project Outline and Scope ==
* tbd
** tbd

  
== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| ''Enter Status''
| ''Enter Description''
| ''Assume Ownership''
| ''Estimate a Delivery Date''
| ''Publish Some Task Notes''
|}

== Notes ==
''None at this time''

== Issues ==
''None at this time''
