{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
My name is Chris Brotherton and I am research scientist living in Albuquerque,NM.  

I first started using Linux back in 2000 after getting bored with windows.  At first, I used slackware (didn't everyone) and then moved on to Red Hat.  In the year 2002, I got serious about Linux and stopped using windows.  At that point, I had found Debian.  Currently, I use both Kubuntu and Debian.  

My hobbies include Linux, hiking, homebrewing, video games, traveling and reading.

== Contact Info ==

'''Name:'''  Chris Brotherton<<BR>>
'''IRC Nick:''' protonchris or protoncb(only used when the IRC server software limits the number of characters in a nick)<<BR>>
'''IRC Networks:''' Freenode and sometimes Undernet<<BR>>
'''Freenode IRC Channels I Lurk In:'''
* #ubuntu-us-nm
* #ubuntu-us
* #ubuntu-mythtv
'''Email:''' chris@protonlab.net<<BR>>
'''Location:''' Albuquerque, NM<<BR>>
'''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~protonchris <<BR>>
'''GPG Key:''' http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x62FDFC42&op=index <<BR>>

== My Current Activities ==

* <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam|Ubuntu New Mexico LoCo Team Member]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam|Ubuntu New Mexico LoCo Team]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-nm|Mailing list]]</nowiki> Administrator and <nowiki>[[NewMexicoTeam-IRC|IRC]]</nowiki> operator

== Previous Activities ==

* <nowiki>[[protonchris-MOTU|Packaging]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Endorphin_Power_Company_Ubuntu_Install_and_Support]]</nowiki>
