{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for libproxool-java ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libp/libproxool-java]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Runtime dependency of eucalyptus 1.6.2, replaces c3p0 which is more unstable.
** Build-time dependency of eucalyptus-commons-ext 0.5.0
0. ''Security:''
** <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=proxool|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=proxool|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: none
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid, no daemons.
** Network activity: proxool doesn't open any ports by itself. It is a Java connection pool, so it handles connections opened by other code.
** No direct binary processing.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Package is a Java library, works out of the box without configuration.
** No debconf questions higher than priority 'medium'.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:libproxool-java|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>: none
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/libp/libproxool-java.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://proxool.sourceforge.net/|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm, though alive.
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=53958&atid=472195|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>: nothing outstanding.
** Hardware: This package doesn't deal with hardware, runs inside a JVM.
** There is a test suite in the upstream source, though the Debian packaging rewrites the build system completely, so it's a non-trivial effort to try to enable it.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** Package follows <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki>, and Java Debian and Ubuntu policies.
** Package is using classic CDBS/ant packaging, as most Java libraries.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** Only build-dependency not in main right now is libavalon-framework-java, MIR follows.
0. ''Maintenance:''
** Little maintenance is expected: this package has no bugs filed and is maintained by the debian-java team.
** The debian-java team, with its few Ubuntu members, is responsible for monitoring the quality of this package and fixing its bugs.
0. ''Background information:''
** Package purpose is clear from its description.
** Upstream calls this software "Proxool"

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/497390]]</nowiki>
