{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by mmrazik at 15:31:46 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-28-15.31.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Static Code Analysis (Coverity)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanonicalProductStrategy/Coverity   (alesage, 15:35:09)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CoverityCheckerDictionary   (alesage, 15:38:52)
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/~coverity-uploader   (alesage, 15:46:00)
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/bamf/+bug/937402   (alesage, 15:48:13)
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/libindicator/+bug/937387   (alesage, 15:51:09)

Meeting ended at 15:59:52 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* alesage (55)
* mmrazik (12)
* gema_ (6)
* meetingology (3)
* ubottu (2)

=== Full Log ===

 15:31:46 <mmrazik> #startmeeting

 15:31:46 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Feb 28 15:31:46 2012 UTC.  The chair is mmrazik. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 15:31:46 <meetingology> 

 15:31:46 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 15:32:07 <mmrazik> lets wait for a minute or so

 15:32:58 <mmrazik> the only topic today is a short talk about Static Code Analysis and what we do in Canonical with Unity et al

 15:33:03 <mmrazik> [TOPIC] Static Code Analysis (Coverity)

 15:33:19 <mmrazik> alesage: I think we can start

 15:33:59 <alesage> ok thanks mmrazik

 15:34:20 <alesage> so this will be a short chat about our use of Coverity

 15:34:35 <alesage> which is a static analyzer

 15:35:02 <alesage> here's our wiki page for our Coverity integration project:

 15:35:09 <alesage> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanonicalProductStrategy/Coverity

 15:35:35 <alesage> and here's a link to the company's site: http://coverity.com/products/static-analysis.html

 15:36:01 <alesage> we're using static analysis as a means to improve quality:

 15:36:52 <alesage> the idea behind "static analysis" is kind-of a step further than what a compiler offers your C/C++/Java/etc. code

 15:37:24 <alesage> in the case of Coverity, for example, the static analyzer sits on GCC and finds bugs in our code

 15:37:54 <alesage> by producing 'models' of the execution--

 15:38:13 <alesage> specifically by running 'checkers', which find common (or not so common ;) ) errors

 15:38:36 <alesage> I'll link to a list of these checkers . . .

 15:38:52 <alesage> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CoverityCheckerDictionary

 15:39:20 <alesage> so taking DIVIDE_BY_ZERO as an example,

 15:39:54 <alesage> here's a condition that might take an exceptional condition to encounter in production, e.g.

 15:40:34 <alesage> but Coverity finds this using its sophisticated analysis

 15:41:14 <alesage> so we wanted to add this to our process for developing Ubuntu

 15:41:32 <alesage> at the moment our licensing covers everything that's a dependency of Unity

 15:42:02 <alesage> and there's talk about expanding--we'll see how the evaluation goes

 15:42:10 <alesage> are there any questions at this point?

 15:42:34 <gema_> o/

 15:42:46 <alesage> I have to thank tvoss for this link, meanwhile: http://drdobbs.com/open-source/232601492

 15:42:51 <alesage> gema_, go ahead

 15:42:52 <gema_> alesage: are you raising bugs as you find them? are you gettting a lot of false positivies?

 15:43:08 <alesage> gema_ excellent question

 15:43:19 <alesage> so my part of the project has been a "syncing" tool

 15:43:28 <alesage> which submits bugs to Launchpad when these defects are found

 15:43:37 <gema_> automatically?

 15:43:47 <alesage> automatically--

 15:43:53 <gema_> agreed :)

 15:44:06 <alesage> the scanner is run as part of a Jenkins/Continuous Integration process

 15:44:22 <alesage> so when we get a build, the scanner runs and finds its Coverity defects,

 15:44:38 <alesage> and then a little Python script interprets these and submits them to Launchpad

 15:44:51 <alesage> where they enter the normal Ubuntu developer workflow

 15:45:00 <alesage> let me get the link for some existing bugs . . .

 15:46:00 <alesage> https://bugs.launchpad.net/~coverity-uploader

 15:46:33 <alesage> so we haven't found a full set as yet, and it's still to early to show our 'defect density' (ref. the link above)

 15:47:00 <alesage> and gema_ as this is still and informal process I'm not aware of complaints about false positives

 15:47:19 <gema_> alesage: I am very impressed, looks pretty good

 15:47:21 <mmrazik> this is up and running for about a week

 15:47:41 <mmrazik> after some time we might want to do some queries and get the % of invalid bugs or something like that

 15:47:42 <alesage> gema_ yeah it's fun to go through the defects

 15:47:50 <mmrazik> that should give us some idea about the false positives

 15:47:57 <gema_> mmrazik: ack

 15:48:12 <alesage> let's take an example

 15:48:13 <alesage> https://bugs.launchpad.net/bamf/+bug/937402

 15:48:14 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 937402 in BAMF trunk "Coverity UNINIT - CID 10451" [Low,Triaged]

 15:48:40 <alesage> so here's an uninitialized variable somewhere deep in bamf

 15:49:06 <alesage> you see that you get a little code snippet in the bug body there

 15:49:19 <alesage> and also an attachment with a prettier rendering of the source code

 15:50:12 <alesage> Coverity offers a more sophisticated product called the "Integrity Manger"

 15:50:37 <alesage> most of the features of which this 'syncer' is offering to Launchpad users

 15:50:58 <alesage> one more interesting case:

 15:51:09 <alesage> https://bugs.launchpad.net/libindicator/+bug/937387

 15:51:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 937387 in libindicator "Coverity PW.USELESS_TYPE_QUALIFIER_ON_RETURN_TYPE - CID 10617" [High,Fix committed]

 15:51:47 <alesage> here's a case in which Coverity has found the same defect in multiple projects

 15:52:06 <alesage> in this case the root of the problem is in libindicator

 15:52:26 <alesage> and ted has tackled and ably squashed the bug

 15:53:16 <alesage> but note that Coverity's tracking of defects enables us to keep the defects in one place, as one Launchpad bug

 15:53:40 <alesage> any questions at this point?

 15:55:48 <alesage> so honestly this is my first encounter with static analysis

 15:56:44 <alesage> do people have more extensive experience with this, or with Coverity itself?

 15:58:33 <alesage> so we'll have some metrics to offer in our Quality Hour blog at some point in the future

 15:58:39 <alesage> please stay tuned :)

 15:58:53 <alesage> and feel free to follow up with me for questions anytime

 15:59:09 <alesage> thanks all--anything else mmrazik?

 15:59:18 <mmrazik> any last questions?

 15:59:42 <mmrazik> in that case -- thank you for the meeting and lets meet in a month :)

 15:59:44 <mmrazik> bb

 15:59:52 <mmrazik> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
