{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi!

You have probably come here because you have a problem with PulseAudio, and someone asked you to provide a !PulseAudio verbose log. Here's how to do that:

* Open a terminal, then enter these commands:

<pre>
echo autospawn = no >> ~/.config/pulse/client.conf  #use ~/.pulse/client.conf on Ubuntu <= 12.10
killall pulseaudio
LANG=C pulseaudio -vvvv --log-time=1 > ~/pulseverbose.log 2>&1
</pre>

* Do what you need to reproduce the bug. 
* Switch back to the terminal and press Ctrl-C to stop !PulseAudio. 
* Open your Launchpad bug and attach the file ~/pulseverbose.log (in your home directory) to that message. 
* To return your system to a clean state again, edit ~/.config/pulse/client.conf with your favorite editor and remove the line "autospawn = no". If the file is now empty, you can just as well delete it. Then log out and log in again. 

* Last but not least - thanks for helping out!

==== Logging startup (advanced) ====

If the problem only manifests itself during startup, then the above method might not work. This method logs the startup phase and works with Ubuntu 14.04 or above.

* Open a terminal, then execute the following command:
<pre>
sudo nano /etc/pulse/client.conf
</pre>

* An edit window will appear. Add this line to the file:
<pre>
extra-arguments = -vvvv --log-target=newfile:/tmp/pulseverbose.log --log-time=1
</pre>

* Now reboot your computer and log in to generate the log file.

* The log files are in the /tmp directory. You might see more than one file (pulseverbose.log, pulseverbose.log.1, pulseverbose.log.2, etc). In case you don't know which file is the right one, please attach all files to the launchpad bug.

* Remove the extra line from /etc/pulse/client.conf to restore your system to original behaviour.

* Last but not least - thanks for helping out!

----
CategoryDebugging
