{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~paulwilliams|Paul Williams]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=244284|PWill]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''PWill''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Weblog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://blog.smoothweb.net/|Series of Tubes]]</nowiki> (Server runs Ubuntu)
|}
== About Me ==
My name is Paul Williams, and I am a 16-year-old high school student living in Columbus, Ohio.
I first installed Ubuntu when I was 14. I now have a multitude of computers running Ubuntu, including an Apache server running my website, <nowiki>[[http://www.smoothweb.net/|SmoothWeb]]</nowiki>. I also installed Ubuntu on my parents' laptops, and they haven't <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1|looked back to Windows since]]</nowiki>. 

== What I Have Done ==
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~paulwilliams/+codesofconduct|Become an Ubuntero]]</nowiki>

 {*} Become an active member in the OhioTeam

 {*} Joined the Unanswered Posts team on the UbuntuForums

=== Wiki Contribs ===
 {*} <nowiki>[[OhioTeam/FeistyParty]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[OhioTeam/WebTeam]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[OhioTeam/OLF]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/USP|help.ubuntu.com/community/USP]]</nowiki>

== Launchpad Teams ==
 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ohio-web-team|Ohio LoCo Web-Team (Administrator)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~acer-laptop-ubuntu|acer-laptop-ubuntu  (Approved)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~newusernetwork|New User Network (Approved)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~oh-communications|Ohio LoCo Communication Team (Approved)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~oh-new|Ohio LoCo New User Team (Approved)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ohio|Ohio LoCo Team (Approved)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-art|Ubuntu Artwork Team (Approved)]]</nowiki>

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad|Ubuntu BugSquad (Approved)]]</nowiki>

== Community ==
 {*} I am a volunteer at <nowiki>[[http://www.freegeekcolumbus.org/|FreeGeek Columbus]]</nowiki>, an organization modeled after Portland's <nowiki>[[http://www.freegeek.org|FreeGeek]]</nowiki>. FreeGeek Columbus provides Linux support, and offers classes and training using Ubuntu.

 {*} I am a volunteer for the <nowiki>[[http://www.ohiolinux.org/|Ohio LinuxFest]]</nowiki>, which is an annual Linux convention held in Columbus, Ohio.

 {*} I always carry Ubuntu CDs and stickers in my backpack!

 {*} I have successfully converted 7 people to Ubuntu in the past year, and I offer them free support.

== What I Want to Do ==
 {*} Become an Ubuntu Member

 {*} Learn Python

  {*} Become a package manager
