{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Spring Cone Crusher is suitable to crush various kinds of ores and rocks of medium or above medium hardness. Compared with Jaw Crusher, Spring Cone Crusher is of stable structure, high efficiency, easy adjustment, and economical using etc. The spring safety system of crusher acts as an overloading protection system that allows metals to pass through the crushing chamber so as not to damage the Cone Crusher. The safety system uses dry oil and water as two kinds of sealed formation to make plaster powder and engine oil separated to make sure reliable performance. This type of crushing chamber depends upon the size of feeding and fineness of the crushed product. The standard type (PYB) is applied to medium crushing, the medium type is applied to medium or fine crushing and the short head type is applied to fine crushing. 

 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: 
1、Provide reasonable product selection and design.
2、Scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements.
3、Strict production process.
4、On time delivery .  

Working Principle of Spring Cone Crusher: 

Spring Cone Crusher crushes materials by the working surface between the movable cone and fixed cone. So it is more advanced and efficiency than Jaw Crusher. The movable cone is supported by spherical bearing and fixed on an hanging erect shaft which is set in the eccentric sleeve, and the sleeve is set on the stopping and pushing bearing. The movable cone and erect shaft are driven by the eccentric shaft sleeve together. The eccentric shaft sleeve is driven by horizontal shaft and fimbriated gear, and the wheel of the conveyor belt is driven by motor through v-belts. The lower part of vertical shaft is installed in the eccentric sleeve. When the eccentric sleeve rotates, there is a conical surface lined out by the shaft. When the movable cone comes near the fixed cone, rocks are grinded into pieces, when the cone leaves, grinded materials is discharged from the discharge hole. The fixed cone can be ascended or descended by adjusting setting to adjust the width of discharge hole, consequently the output size is determined. 

http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com  
http://www.vipeakmill.com
