{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page contains developer documentation for python-dhcpd-conf.  

=== Overview ===

This project will allow many discrete projects such as Ubuntu Server Manager, Linux Terminal Server Project, etc to easily implement features available in isc dhcpd using python.  

=== Basics ===

Because this is an object oriented abstraction the only requirement on a user is to 

`import dhcpd-conf`

`dhcpd = dhcpd-conf()`

from then on dhcpd-conf will allow the user to add, modify, and delete any parameters set in the dhcpd.conf file.  

global variables can be accessed by

`dhcpd.<variable>`
`ex: dhcpd.authorative`

global options can be accessed by

`dhcpd.options("<variable>")`
`ex: dhcpd.options("dns-server")`

for each subnet, class, host, pool, range, zone, shared-network, logging, key, failover, channel, or category stanza a new class, subnet,host, pool, etc should be created with a dictonary key based on the name if more than one exists.

`dhcpd.<stanza class>("<name>").<variable>`
`ex: dhcpd.subnets("192.168.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0").range`

these stanza classes may be nested.  

`dhcpd.<stanza class>s("name").<stanza class>s("name").<variable>`
`ex: dhcpd.shared-networks("224-29").subnets("10.17.224.0 netmask 255.255.255.0").options("routers")`

each of the objects available will have beginning and end variables that mark the beginning letter and the semicolon of there declaration and also a filename will be appended to each object so that we can keep track of which file it is in incase a include statement is used. 

I believe this should allow any possible combination of a dhcpd.conf file.  
