{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== debhelper improvements for Python ==

<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-p-python-dh-improvements|blueprint]]</nowiki>

=== UDS-P session notes ===

Standardised way to do testing? setuptools  + packaging have "setup.py test"
** it would be nice if distutils would exit 0 here...

Testing:
* Barry proposes a tool, pyti (GSOC project), that can introspect a package and work out how to test it.
* Barry is working with distutils SIG to get the test info into the egg-info output
* Piotr will rewrite py3multibuild soon, now that 2.7 is the only supported version, this is the priority.
   It will live in python-defaults, target 3 (primarily) and 2.7

dh_python2 in lucid:
* Some bugs seen in oneiric due to dh_python2.
* Doko proposes backporting the maverick dh_python2
* Build flags. There is a standard way of passing flags to setup.py, but this requires patching distutils / setuptools.

dh_python2 transition in oneric:
* Some patches were rejected because lucid doesn't have dh_python2 yet.
* Many patches accepted.
* Many ignored so far.
* Gtk and Gnome converted.

MIR team only accepting dh_python2.

Alternative pythons:
* Python3 can support this relatively sanely.
* How to state support:
* * tox can help test across python implementations.
* pypy still moving too fast to be included, but there are PPAs

Rebuild all python packages that are still have 2.6 extensions.
Build lsb with python3 again :)

Action items:
* barry to look into getting distutils to exit 0
* slangasek to file a bug about build flags against distribute, python2.7, python3.2
* doko: dh_python2 in lucid
* doko to rebuild python packages with 2.6 extensions
* doko to port lsb again
