{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for Tickcount ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/tickcount]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Apart of the canonical-application-support specifcication.
0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=tickcount|CVE entries]]</nowiki>: ...
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=tickcount|Secunia history]]</nowiki>: ...
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No network daemons.
** No network activity.
** It directly access binary data.
** No source code review performed.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The package should always work out of the box.
** No debconf questions are asked.
** No debian upstream.
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/tickcount|Upstream]]</nowiki> is calm.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/tickcount|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** The package does not deal with any exotic hardware.
** Tickcount includes a test_tickcount.py but it is not enabled.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** Use cdbs with no packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper
** cdbs
** python-all-devs
** python-support
** All are in main
0. ''Maintenance:''
* tickcount is an easy package to maintain, since there havent been any changes upstream. The Ubuntu Server team will be responsible for maintaining the package.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/489264]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
