{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== How to check the latest BIOS version ==

=== Understanding the Samsung Update Software program ===

This part explains how the official Samsung Update Software checks the latest BIOS version and how it downloads the latest file. This example describes a Samsung Ultrabook, model NP530U3B-A01IT.

The Update Software is a Windows-only program that downloads the latest BIOS version information from Samsung, it compares it against the currently installed version and allows the user to update the firmware.

The tool performs an HTTP request to the following URL:

<code>http://sbuservice.samsungmobile.com/BUWebServiceProc.asmx/GetContents?platformID=XK&PartNumber=AAAA</code>

At the time of writing (February, 2016), the following content is returned:

<pre>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Content xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="http://sbuservice.samsungmobile.com/">
  <ID>1079</ID>
  <Version>13XK</Version>
  <Importance>0</Importance>
  <MsgType>0</MsgType>
  <AutoInstall>0</AutoInstall>
  <ExclusiveInstall>0</ExclusiveInstall>
  <FilePathName>ITEM_20130405_1079_WIN_13XK.exe</FilePathName>
  <FileSize>3424280</FileSize>
  <Downloaded>0</Downloaded>
</Content>
</pre>

It can be seen that '''the most important parameter''' is `platformID` which is composed by the last letters of the BIOS version suitable for the computer. Parameter `PartNumber` '''always''' assumes the value `AAAA`.

From the information displayed above, we can see that the latest version is `13XK`. The full URL of the most recent BIOS version is:

<code>http://sbuservice.samsungmobile.com/upload/BIOSUpdateItem/ITEM_20130405_1079_WIN_13XK.exe</code>

=== Replicating the steps manually ===

The first thing to do is to identify the current BIOS version by issuing `sudo dmidecode -t0`:

<pre>
SMBIOS 2.6 present.

Handle 0x0000, DMI type 0, 24 bytes
BIOS Information
	Vendor: Phoenix Technologies Ltd.
	Version: 13XK
	Release Date: 03/28/2013
	Address: 0xE0000
	Runtime Size: 128 kB
	ROM Size: 2560 kB
	Characteristics:
		PCI is supported
		BIOS is upgradeable
		BIOS shadowing is allowed
		Boot from CD is supported
		Selectable boot is supported
		EDD is supported
		Print screen service is supported (int 5h)
		8042 keyboard services are supported (int 9h)
		Serial services are supported (int 14h)
		Printer services are supported (int 17h)
		CGA/mono video services are supported (int 10h)
		NEC PC-98
		ACPI is supported
		USB legacy is supported
		BIOS boot specification is supported
		Function key-initiated network boot is supported
		Targeted content distribution is supported
	BIOS Revision: 0.1
</pre>

In this case the platform ID is `XK`.

Then it's easy to figure out what is the latest BIOS version. It can be seen from the URL of the EXE file. Run the following command:

<code>wget -O - "http://sbuservice.samsungmobile.com/BUWebServiceProc.asmx/GetContents?platformID=XK&PartNumber=AAAA"</code>

Which will return the XML file discussed above. The interesting row is:

<code><FilePathName>ITEM_20130405_1079_WIN_13XK.exe</FilePathName></code>

The BIOS version is `13XK`. This row can also be used to compose the URL and download the EXE file with:

<code>wget http://sbuservice.samsungmobile.com/upload/BIOSUpdateItem/ITEM_20130405_1079_WIN_13XK.exe</code>

=== What remains to be tested ===

Further investigation is necessary to determine if the EXE file can be run in DOS mode by using a FreeDOS environment. Alternatively, it should be possible to extract the ROM file contained in the EXE. The ROM file <nowiki>[[http://forum.notebookreview.com/threads/samsung-laptops-roll-back-bios-updates.696197/|can be flashed]]</nowiki> by using the <nowiki>[[https://www.wimsbios.com/amiflasher.jsp|AMI Flasher utility]]</nowiki> for Linux.
