{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Sansa Clip ===

The Sansa Clip does not work on <nowiki>[[Jaunty]]</nowiki> out of the box. The problem is that the default firmware does not allow users to mount the drive like a regular USB drive.

There are two options: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/musicvideophotos/C/music-portable.html|use MTP mode]]</nowiki>, or install regular MSC USB mode support. To install MSC USB mode support:

# Back up any previously installed audio files, as these will not play.
# On the Sansa Clip, click Menu > Settings > Format.
# Upgrade the firmware according to <nowiki>[[http://forums.sandisk.com/t5/Clip-Clip/Sansa-Clip-Firmware-01-01-35-amp-02-01-35-Release/td-p/144965|these instructions at the SanDisk forums]]</nowiki>.
# Restart.
# On the Sansa Clip, click Menu > Settings > USB > MSC.
# Transfer audio files.
# Test.

This firmware also installs <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FreeFormats|OGG]]</nowiki> playback support.

In some versions of Ubuntu, it seems that a service called "gphoto2 volume manager" gets in the way of successfully mounting a Sansa Clip. This is still the case in Ubuntu 10.10. If this bug bites you, try the workaround (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7173964&postcount=3|source]]</nowiki>):

<pre>
sudo killall gvfs-gphoto2-volume-monitor
sudo chmod -x /usr/lib/gvfs/gvfs-gphoto2-volume-monitor
</pre>
