{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


SBackup is a simple backup solution intended for desktop use. It can back up any subset of files and directories. Exclusions can be defined by regular expressions. A maximum individual file size limit can be defined. Backups may be saved to any local and remote directories that are supported by gnome-vfs.

== How to Install SBackUp ==
Type the following command in your console
<pre>
sudo apt-get install sbackup
</pre>

== Backing up using SBackup ==
Once installed SBackup will be available under '''System \ Administration \ Simple Backup Config'''.

SBackUp has 6 tabs:'''General''','''Include''','''Exclude''','''Destination''','''Time''','''Purging'''

==== General Tab ====
The General Tab gives you 3 way to back up your data:

1. '''Use recommended backup setting''': This option allow user to back up their system using SBackUp default settings. Simply click the 'Backup' now button to back up your system.

# '''Use custom backup setting''': This option allow user to select the folder that he/she wish to back up. User needs to define the backup options in the other tabs.  
# '''Manual backups only''': Select this option if you wish to do the back up manually.

==== Include Tab ====
Users can select the folders that they can back up. 

==== Exclude Tab ====
Exclude tabs allows users to exclude data that they do not want to back up. There are 4 options:
# '''Paths''': Users can add a list of directories that they do not want to back up to this list.
# '''File types''': Users can add a list of file that they do not want to back up to this list.
# '''Regex''': Users who are familiar with regular expression can define files or folder to exclude using <nowiki>[[http://www.amk.ca/python/howto/regex/regex.html|regex]]</nowiki>.  
# '''Max size''':Users is able to define the maximum size of the back up. For example you have added a directory included for backup, but you don’t want to backup files larger than 100 MB.

==== Destination Tab ====
Choose the location to backup your data to. The default backup directory is /var/backup. However, you can change it to other directory of your preference. It is advisable to back up your data in an external storage unit.

==== Time Tab ====
This tab control when SBackUp perform the back up. It can be hourly, daily, weekly, and monthly or if you prefer, set the precise day of the month, day of the week and even the hour and minute to backup your data. Performing back up may consume a lot of resources, so it is advisable to perform back up when users are not using their computer.

==== Purging Tab ====
The last tab 'purging' is about how the old backup files will be handled. User can choose the recommended setting from SBackUp:Logarithmic.

== Restoring Back Up ==
Go to '''System \ Administration \ System Backup Restore.''' to restore your back up.Select the backup file from the list and click '''Restore'''.

== Links ==
1. <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/sbackup/|SBackUp Source Forge]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryBackupRecovery
