{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Chinese character input require SCIM.
* This page is a simple way to install SCIM without installing additional Language Support Packets
* Read <nowiki>[[SCIM]]</nowiki> for more detail.
* Before you continue, you may need some basic configuration of your new Ubuntu system.

Type in the terminal:
<pre>
$sudo apt-get install scim-qtimm im-switch scim-pinyin
$im-switch -z en_US -s scim
</pre>
Log out, then log in again. SCIM should be now the default input for all applications

If the second command line doesn't work, try
<pre>
$locale | grep LANG=
</pre>
The answer would be something like
<pre>
LANG=en_US.UTF-8
</pre>
Type in the terminal:
<pre>
$im-switch -z YOUR LOCALE -s scim  # replace "YOUR LOCALE" by something like "en_US.UTF-8"
</pre>

For Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron or any later version, you might want to try this if the commands stated as above doesn't work:
<pre>
$im-switch -z YOUR LOCALE -s scim-bridge  # replace "YOUR LOCALE" by something like "en_US.UTF-8"
</pre>
For example:
<pre>
$im-switch -z en_US.UTF-8 -s scim-bridge
</pre>
You must restart your X window (log out, then log in) to take effect.

You can press "Ctrl+blank" to switch between English and Chinese input mode now in all applications.

== Further Reading ==
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SCIM?highlight=%28scim%29
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InputMethods/SCIM/Setup
