{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Screen''' is a <nowiki>[[UsingTheTerminal|terminal]]</nowiki> multiplexer, which allows a user to access multiple separate terminal sessions inside a single terminal window or remote terminal session (such as when using <nowiki>[[SSHHowto|SSH]]</nowiki>).

=== Installation ===

Install the <nowiki>[[apt:screen|screen]]</nowiki> package can be installed on Ubuntu using <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware|any method]]</nowiki>.

Starting with the Jaunty release, the <nowiki>[[Byobu|screen-profiles]]</nowiki> package (later renamed <nowiki>[[Byobu]]</nowiki>) provides advanced features such as status bars, clocks, and notifiers. The package can also be manually installed on previous Ubuntu releases.

=== Usage ===

Screen can be started by typing
<pre>
screen</pre>
in a terminal.
Press '''Enter''' after reading the introductory text.

Virtual terminals in Screen can be manipulated by pressing the '''Ctrl+A''' key combination, and subsequently pressing a key to execute one of the commands given below:

* '''c''' creates a new virtual console
* '''n''' switches to the next available virtual console
* '''p''' switches back to the previous virtual console
* '''"''' lists all available virtual consoles and their assigned numbers
* hitting a number key brings the corresponding virtual console to the foreground
* '''Esc''' lets you scroll back and forth in your terminal output
* '''d''' detatches the current screen sessions and brings you back to the normal terminal

When a Screen session is detached, the processes that were running inside it aren't stopped.
You can re-attach a detached session by typing
<pre>
screen -r</pre>
in a terminal

To remove the annoying copyright notice at startup, edit your /etc/screenrc with <pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/screenrc</pre>
and remove the hash which begins the line <pre>
Save the file, and you will not see it again :D

=== See Also ===

* <nowiki>[[Manpage:screen|screen man page]]</nowiki>
