{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFF280"> {i} Security is part of the UserDocumentation series of index pages.  Please read the WikiGuide prior to making changes.
|}

=== Security Guides ===

==== Security Updates ====

* <nowiki>[[AutomaticSecurityUpdates]]</nowiki> - How to set up Ubuntu to install security updates automatically

==== Passwords ====

* StrongPasswords - How to generate and use strong passwords in Ubuntu

==== Miscellaneous Information ====

* <nowiki>[[StricterDefaults]]</nowiki> - Default settings that you could change if you wanted stricter settings at the cost of convenience

=== Security Tools ===

==== General ====

* <nowiki>[[InstallingSecurityTools]]</nowiki> - A guide to installing several security applications in Ubuntu

==== Firewall ====

* <nowiki>[[UFW]]</nowiki> - Uncomplicated Firewall installed by default in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS and later - https://launchpad.net/ufw
* <nowiki>[[IptablesHowTo]]</nowiki> - An introduction to the powerful Linux IPTables firewall
* <nowiki>[[SinglePacketAuthorization]]</nowiki> - Advanced "firewall knocking" via cryptographic authentication

==== Intrusion Detection ====
* <nowiki>[[SnortIDS|Network Intrusion Detection System (IDS)]]</nowiki> - Setting up Snort and acidbase to serve as an IDS

==== Data Leak Prevention ====
* <nowiki>[[MyDLP]]</nowiki> - Installation and Internet / e-mail configuration instructions to prevent data leak from network with MyDLP.

==== System Hardening ====

* <nowiki>[[BastilleLinux]]</nowiki> - The Bastille Linux Security Hardening Tool

==== System Integrity ====

* <nowiki>[[BitDefender]]</nowiki> - How to install Bit Defender Linux Edition
* <nowiki>[[FileIntegrityAIDE]]</nowiki> - File integrity monitoring and verification with AIDE
* <nowiki>[[RKhunter]]</nowiki> - How to use RKhunter.

==== SSH ====

* <nowiki>[[AdvancedOpenSSH]]</nowiki> - Advanced OpenSSH configuration for enhanced security

==== Data Deletion ====

* <nowiki>[[SecureDeletion]]</nowiki> - How to erase (wipe) data from hard discs in a way that hampers data recovery

==== Encrypted Filesystems ====

* <nowiki>[[EncryptedFilesystems|Encrypted Filesystems]]</nowiki> - Index page containing step-by-step instructions on encrypting entire root filesystems and portable devices

==== Encrypted Folders ====

* <nowiki>[[FolderEncryption]]</nowiki> - How to encrypt a folder with encfs, and automatically mount it at login

==== GPG ====

* <nowiki>[[GnuPrivacyGuardHowto|GPG Key]]</nowiki> - How to create/manage a GPG key and use it in your favorite E-Mail client
* <nowiki>[[GPGKeyOnUSBDrive]]</nowiki> - How to store your GPG key securely on an encrypted USB flash drive

==== SSL ====

* <nowiki>[[OpenSSL]]</nowiki> - OpenSSL Secure Sockets Layer implementation information
* <nowiki>[[CommonAccessCard]]</nowiki> - Department of Defence Common Access Card (CAC) for Public key infrastructure (PKI) Authentication

==== Anti-Virus ====

* <nowiki>[[Antivirus | AntiVirus]]</nowiki>  - About antivirus programs in Gnu&Linux.  To summarise, they are the best way to scan a Windows partition or to block an infected file that people are passing around to each other.
* <nowiki>[[Linuxvirus]]</nowiki> - An overview of the types of malware generally found on computers and descriptions of specific malware that works on Linux (usually made to test the security of systems).  
* <nowiki>[[ClamAV]]</nowiki> - How to install ClamAV on your HD

==== Anonymity ====

* <nowiki>[[Tor|Tor Project]]</nowiki> - Anonymous web surfing using Tor and Polipo.
----
CategorySecurity
