{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="font-size: 0.9em; width:90%; background:#ffc8c8; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Warning'''
|-
| The Ubuntu-specific "selinux" and "selinux-policy-ubuntu" packages documented here have not received much attention since Karmic, and appear to be effectively broken in Precise.
|-
| If you wish to use SELinux in Ubuntu, the "selinux-basics" and "selinux-policy-default" packages from Debian are still being actively maintained.  Documentation relevant to those packages can be found at http://wiki.debian.org/SELinux
|}

NOTE: Page not updated for Hardy.  Upstart should work with selinux in Hardy and later.

=== Introduction ===
Security-enhanced Linux (SELinux) was originally developed as a research prototype of the Linux® kernel and a number of utilities with enhanced security functionality designed to demonstrate the value of mandatory access controls to the Linux community and how such controls could be added to Linux. Today SELinux is integrated into the mainline Linux 2.6 kernel series and several Linux distributions. The Security-enhanced Linux kernel contains new architectural components originally developed to improve the security of the Flask operating system. These architectural components provide general support for the enforcement of many kinds of mandatory access control policies, including those based on the concepts of Type Enforcement®, Role-based Access Control, and Multi-level Security.

=== Target Audience ===
This guide is designed for intermediate to advanced users of Ubuntu, and is '''not recommended for beginners'''.  The changes  SELinux can make to your Ubuntu system can potentially render parts of your system inoperative, or have other adverse affects.  You should have a very good understanding of what will occur for every change you allow SELinux to make, and understand any potential ramifications which may arise later from those changes.  The author of this guide, the creators of SELinux, and Ubuntu cannot be responsible for any adverse conditions with your Ubuntu system which may be caused by failure to understand what you are doing with  SELinux.  You have been warned.

=== Installation ===
Installing SELinux is easy..

1. <code>sudo apt-get install selinux</code>

2. Reboot!

=== Usage ===
