{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Technical specifications for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Server Edition ==

This document is for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. For other releases please visit the <nowiki>[[..-|technical specifications overview]]</nowiki> page.

Ubuntu Server Edition is meant to run on any Intel or AMD x86, AMD_64,  EM_64T processors as well as Sun Sparc T1 processors. It requires a  minimum of 128Mb of RAM and 1Gb of disk space. Depending on your needs,  you might manage with less than this. However, most users risk being  frustrated if they ignore these suggestions. 

As a server LTS, 8.04 benefits of 5 year <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/benefits/lifecycle|lifecycle]]</nowiki>.   

The following is a selection of some common packages packages that are  fully maintained on Ubuntu Server Edition. 

=== Kernels ===
* Default    2.6.24-server    Tickless, No Preemption, Deadline I/O,  PAE, 100Hz    
* JeOS    2.6.24-virtual    Stripped down kernel for Virtualization

=== Web ===
* Apache    2.2    event/prefork/worker/dev

=== Database ===
* MySQL 5.
* PostgreSQL    8.3

=== Email ===
* Dovecot    1.0
* Postfix    2.5
* Exim    4.69

=== Languages ===
* PHP    5.2
* Perl    5.8
* Python    2.5
* Gcc    4.2
* Ruby 4.1

=== Networking ===
* LTSP    5.0
* Samba    3.0
* OpenLDAP    2.4
* OpenVPN 2.1
* FreeRadius 1.1

=== Monitoring ===
* Munin 1.2
* Nagios 2.11

=== Backup ===
* Bacula 2.2
* BackupPC 3.0

=== Package management ===
* Aptitude    0.4
* APT 0.7
* Dpkg    1.14

=== Security ===
* AppArmor    2.1
* Iptables    1.3
* ufw 0.16

=== Clustering ===
* Ocfs 2 
* Gfs 2
* RH-Cluster 2
* DRBD 8

=== Virtualization ===
* KVM 62
* Libvirt 0.4
* Virt-Manager 0.5

=== Storage ===
* Lvm 2
* aoetools 23
* openiscsi 2.0

Full up to date list of packages, sorted by release and categories can be found at http://packages.ubuntu.com/ 
