{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Validated hardware for Ubuntu Server Edition ==

''For more details about past Ubuntu Server Edition releases please visit the <nowiki>[[..-|technical specifications overview]]</nowiki> page.''  

Most x86 hardware should "just work" with Ubuntu Server Edition,  However, in order to ensure to our users the best level of support when  choosing their hardware, Canonical and the Ubuntu distribution team have  engaged with a number of hardware vendors in order to validate specific  products on the market. 

== Certification programme ==

This programme is offered by Canonical to any hardware vendors that  want to have their hardware certified on Ubuntu. Various  tests are  performed to ensure proper behaviour of Ubuntu Server Edition with the  hardware.  There are two ratings that hardware can obtain, based on the  number of tests that are being done : "compatible" and "certified". The  certified rating is the highest of the two where in-depth tests are  performed by Canonical's engineers and ensure a commitment that this  hardware is supported. 

* <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/engineering-services/certification|Details of  Canonical's certification programme]]</nowiki>
  
* <nowiki>[[http://webapps.ubuntu.com/certification/list/?category=Server|Complete  Validated Hardware list for Ubuntu Server Edition]]</nowiki>
  
