{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Technical specifications for Ubuntu 10.04LTS Server Edition ==

This document is for Ubuntu 10.04LTS. For other releases please visit the <nowiki>[[..-|technical specifications overview]]</nowiki> page.  

Ubuntu Server Edition is meant to run on any Intel or AMD x86, AMD_64, EM_64T processor. It requires a minimum of 192Mb of RAM and 1Gb of disk  space. Depending on your needs, you might manage with less than this.  However, most users risk being frustrated if they ignore these  suggestions.  

You can see a <nowiki>[[..-new|summary  of all changes since 8.04]]</nowiki>. 

As a regular release, 10.04LTS benefits from a 5-year <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/benefits/lifecycle|lifecycle]]</nowiki>.   

The following is a selection of the common packages packages that are fully maintained on Ubuntu Server Edition 10.04LTS. 

=== Kernels ===
* Default Linux 2.6.32-server    Tickless, No Preemption, Deadline I/O, PAE, 100Hz    

=== Web ===
* Apache    2.2    event/prefork/worker/dev
* Tomcat 6.0.24

=== Database ===
* MySQL 5.1
* PostgreSQL    8.4
* couchdb 0.10

=== Email ===
* Dovecot    1.2
* Postfix    2.7
* Exim    4.71
* SpamAssassin 3.3
* ClamAV 0.96
* amavisd-new 2.6

=== Languages ===
* PHP    5.3.2
* Perl    5.10.1
* Python    2.6.5
* Gcc    4.4.3
* Ruby 1.8.7
* Java 6 (through OpenJDK)

=== Networking ===
* LTSP    5.2
* Samba    3.4
* OpenLDAP    2.4 (cn=config)
* OpenVPN 2.1
* FreeRadius 2.1

=== Monitoring ===
* Munin 1.4
* Nagios 3.2

=== Backup ===
* Bacula 5.0
* BackupPC 3.1

=== Package management ===
* Aptitude    0.4
* APT 0.7
* Dpkg    1.15

=== Security ===
* AppArmor    2.5
* Iptables    1.4
* ufw 0.30

=== Clustering ===
* Ocfs 2 
* Gfs 2
* RH-Cluster 3
* DRBD 8

=== Virtualization ===
* KVM 84
* Libvirt 0.7

=== Storage ===
* Lvm 2
* aoetools 26
* openiscsi 2.0

=== Power Management ===
* Nut 2.4
* pwrkap 7.3
* powernap 1.9

=== Configuration management ===
* puppet 0.25
* etckeeper 0.41

=== Cloud computing ===
* eucalyptus 1.6.2
* euca2ools 1.2
* cloud-utils 0.11
