{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


How to set up Server Side Includes (SSI) on <nowiki>[[ApacheMySQLPHP|Apache]]</nowiki>, assuming you already have Apache installed.

Server Side Includes are a very simple way of performing a limited Server Side Programming. For instance, you can have the server assemble one single document by merging smaller ones (with the #include directive), you can display data on the file itself (with the date_local directive, and many more), and if security is none of your concern, you can even execute local programs.

=== Enable the Includes module ===

<pre>
sudo a2enmod include
</pre>

This creates a symlink in mods-enabled of the config file in mods-available.

=== Editing config ===

Open the /sites-available/default file...
<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/apache2/sites-available/default
</pre>

find this section...
<pre>
<Directory /var/www/>
	Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
	AllowOverride None
	Order allow,deny
	allow from all
</Directory>
</pre>
and edit it to look like this:
<pre>
<Directory /var/www/>
	Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews Includes
	AllowOverride None
	Order allow,deny
	allow from all
</Directory>
</pre>

You need to add `Includes` to the end of the end of the `Options`. If you only want to
run server side includes from your user directory, the /etc/apache2/mods-available/userdir.conf file aready has a `IncludesNoExec` in the `Options` line.

If you want includes in index pages then edit the /etc/apache2/mods-available/dir.conf file from this:
<pre>
<IfModule mod_dir.c>
          DirectoryIndex index.html index.cgi index.pl index.php index.xhtml index.htm
</IfModule>
</pre>
to this (indent changed to fit onto one line in this document):
<pre>
<IfModule mod_dir.c>
 DirectoryIndex index.html index.cgi index.pl index.php index.xhtml index.htm index.shtml
</IfModule>
</pre>

Note that on some older versions of Ubuntu, the /etc/apache2/mods-available/mime.conf might not contain the required `AddType` and `AddOutputFilter` directives for .shtml. and so another two lines will be required in /etc/apache2/sites-available/default:
<pre>
<Directory /var/www/>
	Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews Includes
	AllowOverride None
	Order allow,deny
	allow from all
	AddType text/html .shtml
	AddOutputFilter INCLUDES .shtml
</Directory>
</pre>

=== Restart Apache ===

For the changes to take effect you will need to restart Apache with
<pre>
sudo service apache2 restart
</pre>

=== Test it works ===
Create a SSI test file and save it under /var/www/ssi-test.shtml.
<pre>
<html>
<head>
<title>SSI Test Page</title>
</head>
<body>
<!--#echo var="DATE_LOCAL" -->
</body>
</html>
</pre>

In your WebBrowser, go to `http://127.0.0.1/ssi-test.shtml`.

If your browser displays the local date (eg Sunday, 18-Mar-2012 11:12:56 PDT), SSI is working!

Tested on Ubuntu 9.04, 12.04, 13.04

-----
Based on <nowiki>[[http://www.unet.univie.ac.at/%7Ea9826090/en/projects/linux/ubuntu-apache2-ssi.html|Rafael Gattringer's Ubuntu Apache2 SSI Installation guide]]</nowiki>, with permission.

For usage examples, see also <nowiki>[[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/ssi.html|SSI on apache.org]]</nowiki>, but do not use it as a how to enable SSI reference, use this guide.
----
