{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Technical specifications for Ubuntu 9.04 Server Edition ==

This document is for Ubuntu 9.04. For other releases please visit the <nowiki>[[..-|technical specifications overview]]</nowiki> page. 

Ubuntu Server Edition is meant to run on any Intel or AMD x86, AMD_64,  EM_64T processors. It requires a minimum of 192Mb of RAM and 1Gb of disk  space. Depending on your needs, you might manage with less than this.  However, most users risk being frustrated if they ignore these  suggestions.  

You can see a <nowiki>[[..-new|summary  of all changes since 8.04]]</nowiki>. 

As a regular release, 9.04 benefits of an 18 month <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/benefits/lifecycle|lifecycle]]</nowiki>.   

The following is a selection of the common packages packages that are  fully maintained on Ubuntu Server Edition 9.04. 

=== Kernels ===
* Default    2.6.28-server    Tickless, No Preemption, Deadline I/O,  PAE, 100Hz    
* JeOS    2.6.28-virtual    Stripped down kernel for Virtualization

=== Web ===
* Apache    2.2    event/prefork/worker/dev
* Tomcat 6

=== Database ===
* MySQL 5 (5.1 in Universe)
* PostgreSQL    8.3

=== Email ===
* Dovecot    1.1
* Postfix    2.5
* Exim    4.69
* SpamAssassin 3.2
* ClamAV 0.95
* amavisd-new 2.6

=== Languages ===
* PHP    5.2
* Perl    5.10
* Python    2.6
* Gcc    4.3
* Ruby 4.2

=== Networking ===
* LTSP    5.1
* Samba    3.3
* OpenLDAP    2.4 (cn=config)
* OpenVPN 2.1
* FreeRadius 2.1

=== Monitoring ===
* Munin 1.2
* Nagios 3

=== Backup ===
* Bacula 2.4
* BackupPC 3.1

=== Package management ===
* Aptitude    0.4
* APT 0.7
* Dpkg    1.14

=== Security ===
* AppArmor    2.3
* Iptables    1.4
* ufw 0.27

=== Clustering ===
* Ocfs 2 
* Gfs 2
* RH-Cluster 2
* DRBD 8

=== Virtualization ===
* KVM 84
* Libvirt 0.6
* Virt-Manager 0.6

=== Storage ===
* Lvm 2
* aoetools 26
* openiscsi 2.0

=== Power Management ===
* Nut 2.4
* pwrkap 7.3
