{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In Ubuntu 10.04LTS Lucid Lynx and newer, there are two primary Jabber servers to use ejabberd and jabberd2.  

== Ejabberd ==

Ejabberd is a high-performance Jabber/XMPP server, written in erlang. It comes with a built-in web-based management interface.  

=== Installation ===

To install the server and its components, run:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install ejabberd
</pre>

After it is installed, you need to edit the configuration file found at /etc/ejabberd/ejabberd.cfg. 

In the configuration file, you need to add the host name you want the server to use (unless you only want to run on localhost).  Change:
<pre>
{hosts, ["localhost"]}.
</pre>
to
<pre>
{hosts, ["localhost","servername.com"]}.
</pre>

In addition, you need to create an admin user.  Change:
<pre>
{acl, admin, {user, "", "localhost"}}.
</pre>
to
<pre>
{acl, admin, {user, "admin-name", "servername.com"}}.
</pre>

Now, restart the service:
<pre>
sudo service ejabberd restart
</pre>

Finally, set the password for your admin user:
<pre>
sudo ejabberdctl register admin-name servername.com password
</pre>

All set. For any further configuration, you can log in to the web-based management panel. In your web browser, go to http://servername.com:5280/admin and enter the admin username and password.  You can get more details on use the web admin page from the <nowiki>[[http://www.process-one.net/docs/ejabberd/guide_en.html#htoc77|ejabberd site]]</nowiki>
