{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== A Shared Clipboard to Use Between Windows and and Ubuntu ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| This is an advanced article. There is no "just works" packaged solution with GUI. Please write and release one.
|}

If you are using a network that has both Linux and Ubuntu machines you might sometimes want to share text quickly between them like an address from the browser, or a snippet of text.

<nowiki>[[http://www.autohotkey.com/|AutoHotKey]]</nowiki> is a free, open source scripting application that can quickly provide an extension to the normal windows copy/paste behaviour.

Save the following code as an .ahk file, or add the code to your hotkeys if you're already running AutoHotKey.

<pre>
; ======== Begin AutoHotKey Script ========
; Put/get clipboard to/from a file accessible by linux and windows.
; Paste
^#v::
	FileDelete, M:\Paste\paste
	FileAppend, %clipboard%, M:\Paste\paste
return
; Copy
^#c::
	FileRead, Clipboard, M:\Paste\paste
return
; ======== End AutoHotKey Script ========
</pre>

The keypress "Ctrl-WinKey-V" will paste from the windows paste buffer directly to the shared file.

"Ctrl-WinKey-C" will copy from the shared buffer file filling the windows paste/copy buffer with whatever is there, maybe something that has just been added from the Linux machine.

The address to the shared file ("paste") is a Samba share on the Linux machine, but it could just as well be on the windows machine as a share accessible by Ubuntu.

Just open the buffer file in linux as you would a normal text file, or you could automatically fill the Ubuntu clipboard using something like "incron" and "xclip". See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=413786|this forum thread]]</nowiki>.
