{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2037658|Discussions Page]]</nowiki>.
== Displaying Hidden Startup Applications ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Starting with Ubuntu 12.04 the 'Startup Applications' manager now only displays a sub-set of applications to control at startup with the remaining applications being hidden. To make the hidden applications visible in the manager, follow these steps:

* Open the terminal by pressing (Ctrl + Alt + t) or searching for "Terminal" in the Unity bar.
* Copy and paste the following command into the terminal and press the 'enter' key.
 <pre>
sudo sed -i "s/NoDisplay=true/NoDisplay=false/g" /etc/xdg/autostart/*.desktop
</pre> If asked you will also have to provide your user account password to perform the command, if asked simply enter your user password and press 'enter' again ('''note:''' When entering your password, the terminal will not display characters on-screen, such as the asterisk '*', for security reasons). 
* Close the terminal and now open 'Startup Applications' from the power menu or searching for it in the unity bar. 

Hidden startup applications will now be displayed in the 'Startup Applications' manager as slightly greyed out. You can now continue to edit which programs start upon startup, including any hidden applications.

====== Discussion Page ======
You can find the discussion page on this wiki at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2037658|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>.
----
CategoryDocumentation
