{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


(From <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>)

''Ubuntu is an African concept of "humanity towards others". It's "the belief in a universal bond of sharing that connects all humanity". The same ideas are central to the way the Ubuntu community collaborates. Members of the Ubuntu community need to work together effectively, and the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> lays down the "ground rules" for our cooperation.''

== Why Sign the Code of Conduct ==

As pointed out above, the Code of Conduct lays out the "ground rules" for cooperation within the Ubuntu community. It allows people to work together knowing that the guidelines specified in the Code of Conduct are in place. Signing the Code of Conduct also grants you 'Ubuntero' status on Launchpad. It is recommended that you sign the Code of Conduct before joining and working with any Ubuntu teams on Launchpad. Additionally, those who wish to become Ubuntu Members must first sign the Code of Conduct. See Ubuntu:NewMemberHowto .

== Signing the Code of Conduct ==

=== Obtaining a Launchpad account ===

Ubuntu uses <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> to coordinate all Ubuntu teams and people. If you wish to sign the CoC or join an Ubuntu team, you will need a Launchpad account.

To create a Launchpad account, navigate to https://launchpad.net/+login . Type your email address in the box labelled 'E-Mail address:' under the section labelled 'Not Registered Yet?'. Press the 'Register' button to begin the registration process. You will then be presented with a screen that will inform you that 'Registration Mail Sent'.

The email you receive will provide you with a link to complete your account setup. This page will ask you to provide a display name and a password. The display name is usually your full name, and is what others will see you as on Launchpad. Pick a secure password and enter it twice to confirm it with Launchpad. Click 'Continue' to proceed. This will bring you back to the Launchpad home page and inform you that your registration was successful. You will be signed in as the user you just created.

=== Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG) ===

To sign the CoC you will need to have an OpenPGP key. This done with the Gnu Privacy Guard application, using the OpenPGP standard. This is used to authenticate you. Full details and instructions on how to create one can be found at Ubuntu:GnuPrivacyGuardHowto . You will need to follow the section on Generating a New OpenPGP Key.

=== Signing and Uploading the Code of Conduct ===

For detailed instructions on how to sign the CoC please see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto#Signing_Data|this section]]</nowiki> of the previously mentioned Ubuntu:GnuPrivacyGuardHowto  
