{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 
This page contains useful places to go in Ubuntu. Have a specific question? Browse the <nowiki>[[..-Questions|list of common questions]]</nowiki> or go back to the <nowiki>[[..-|signpost]]</nowiki>. You can also see the <nowiki>[[..-Answers|list of answers]]</nowiki> to common Ubuntu questions.

== IRC Destinations ==

IRC (''Internet Relay Chat'') is a network of chat rooms called ''channels''.  IRC is the primary means for real-time communication in Ubuntu.  Please see the <nowiki>[[InternetRelayChat#Channels|full list of IRC channels]]</nowiki> if the channel you want isn't here.

=== Channel: #ubuntu ===

''#ubuntu'' is an IRC channel where you can ask about any problem using Ubuntu.

To join #ubuntu, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu''

When you join the channel, ask your question immediately, in as much detail as possible.  Don't ask whether you can ask your question - that's what the channel is for, and volunteers won't know whether they can answer a question until you've asked it.  See <nowiki>[[GettingAnswers|Getting Answers]]</nowiki> for more tips on how to improve your chances of getting a useful answer.

When you have asked your question, you should wait at least two minutes for a reply.  If your question isn't answered, then none of the volunteers know what the answer is.  You might want to ask again in an hour or so, when new volunteers might be available.

----

=== Channel: #ubuntu-motu ===
''#ubuntu-motu'' is an IRC channel where you can talk to Ubuntu <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:MOTU|MOTU]]</nowiki> developers.

To join #ubuntu-motu, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu-motu''

When you join the channel, wait a couple of minutes before speaking.  If #ubuntu-motu is in the middle of a large discussion, you will see the conversation in progress.  If you want to start a new conversation, you should wait until people are less distracted.

When you ask your question, do so in as much detail as possible.  Don't ask whether you can ask your question - nobody can tell you whether they can answer a question until they've seen what the question is.

----

=== Channel: #ubuntu-bugs ===

''#ubuntu-bugs'' is an IRC channel where you can get help writing a good bug report.

To join #ubuntu-bugs, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu-bugs''

----

=== Channel: #ubuntu-artwork ===

''#ubuntu-artwork'' is an IRC channel where you can get help writing a good bug report.

To join #ubuntu-artwork, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu-artwork''

----

=== Channel: #ubuntu+1 ===

''#ubuntu+1'' is an IRC channel where you can discuss the next (unreleased) version of Ubuntu.

To join #ubuntu+1, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu+1''

----
=== Channel: #ubuntu-beginners ===

''#ubuntu-beginners'' is an IRC channel where you can talk to Ubuntu Beginners Team members who are ready to assist you with any questions you may have.

To join #ubuntu-beginners, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu-beginners''

When you join the channel, wait a couple of minutes before speaking.  If #ubuntu-beginners is in the middle of a large discussion, you will see the conversation in progress.  If you want to start a new conversation, you should wait until people are less distracted.

When you ask your question, do so in as much detail as possible.  Don't ask whether you can ask your question - nobody can tell you whether they can answer a question until they've seen what the question is. Also, please be aware that people will not always be focused on the IRC channel and receiving an answer may take a bit of time. Your patience is appreciated.

----
=== Channel: #ubuntu-beginners-team ===

''#ubuntu-beginners-team'' is an IRC channel where you can talk to Ubuntu Beginners Team members who are ready introduce you to the various methods of contributing.

To join #ubuntu-beginners-team, follow these steps:

In this case, the name of the channel to join is ''#ubuntu-beginners-team''

When you join the channel, wait a couple of minutes before speaking.  If #ubuntu-beginners-team is in the middle of a large discussion, you will see the conversation in progress.  If you want to start a new conversation, you should wait until people are less distracted.

If you are not sure how you want to contribute, join anyways. The members of the Ubuntu Beginners Team are willing to lead you through the process of finding which method is best for you. 

== Mailing list destinations ==

Mailing lists are an important means of delayed communication in Ubuntu.  Please see the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/|full listing of mailing lists]]</nowiki> if the one you want isn't here.

=== Mailing list: ubuntu-users ===

''ubuntu-users'' is a mailing list for ordinary users to discuss Ubuntu issues.

To join ubuntu-users, sign up at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users|ubuntu-users info page]]</nowiki>.

There are also several other <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/#Community+Support|specialised community-support lists]]</nowiki>.

Before asking a question on the mailing list, read <nowiki>[[GettingAnswers|Getting Answers]]</nowiki> for tips on how to improve your chances of getting a useful answer.

----

=== Mailing list: ubuntu-devel-discuss ===

''ubuntu-devel-discuss'' is a mailing list for discussing Ubuntu development issues.

To join ubuntu-devel-discuss, sign up at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-discuss|ubuntu-devel-discuss info page]]</nowiki>.

There is also the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel|main developer list]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Mailing list: ubuntu-motu ===

''ubuntu-motu'' is a mailing list for maintaining the Ubuntu Universe repositories.

To join ubuntu-motu, sign up at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-motu|ubuntu-motu info page]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Mailing list: ubuntu-artwork ===

''ubuntu-artwork'' is a mailing list for discussing art that will go into future versions of Ubuntu.

To join ubuntu-artwork, sign up at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-artwork|ubuntu-artwork info page]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Mailing list: ubuntu-announce ===

''ubuntu-announce'' is a mailing list where major announcements are made about the Ubuntu project.

To joun ubuntu-announce, sign up at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce|ubuntu-announce info page]]</nowiki>.

== Forum destinations ==

The Ubuntu Forums are an important means of delayed communication in Ubuntu.  Please see the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|main page]]</nowiki> if the forum you want isn't here.

To search the Ubuntu Forums archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php|search page]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu forum: Absolute beginner talk ===

''Absolute beginner talk'' is a web forum for Ubuntu beginners to ask for help.

To search the ''Absolute beginner talk'' archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?f=326|search page]]</nowiki>

If you can't find your question in the archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=326|main forum page]]</nowiki>.  Before asking a question in the forum, check the <nowiki>[[StickyThreads|sticky threads]]</nowiki> and read the <nowiki>[[GettingAnswers|tips on getting answers]]</nowiki> to improve your chances.

----

=== Ubuntu forum: General help ===

''General help'' is a web forum for Ubuntu users to ask for help.

To search the ''General help'' archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?f=331|search page]]</nowiki>

If you can't find your question in the archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=331|main forum page]]</nowiki>.  Before asking a question in the forum, check the <nowiki>[[StickyThreads|sticky threads]]</nowiki> and read the <nowiki>[[GettingAnswers|tips on getting answers]]</nowiki> to improve your chances.

----

=== Ubuntu forum: Development and Programming ===

''Development and Programming'' is a collection of forums for programmers to talk about Ubuntu programming issues.

To search the ''Development and Programming'' archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?f=310|search page]]</nowiki>

If you can't find your question in the archives, go to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=310|main forum page]]</nowiki>.

== Web destinations ==

There are many Ubuntu websites where you can find help.

=== Website: Launchpad ===

''Launchpad'' is the primary means for developing Ubuntu.  Every Ubuntu project is represented this website.  ''Launchpad'' includes several areas:

* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> - the main section of the site
* <nowiki>[[http://code.launchpad.net|Launchpad Code]]</nowiki> - source code for Ubuntu programs
* <nowiki>[[http://blueprints.launchpad.net|Launchpad Blueprints]]</nowiki> - specifications for new features suggested in Ubuntu programs
* <nowiki>[[http://translations.launchpad.net|Launchpad Translations]]</nowiki> - utilities for translating Ubuntu programs into new languages
* <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net|Launchpad Bugs]]</nowiki> - reporting bugs in Ubuntu programs
* <nowiki>[[http://answers.launchpad.net|Launchpad Answers]]</nowiki> - questions and answers about Ubuntu programs

----

=== Website: Brainstorm ===

''Ubuntu Brainstorm'' is the primary means for Ubuntu users to discuss and vote on new features they would like to see in Ubuntu.

To view, suggest, and vote on ideas, go to <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/|Brainstorm's main page]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Website: help.ubuntu.com ===

''help.ubuntu.com'' (HUC) is the primary help resource for Ubuntu.  The <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com|official section]]</nowiki> is an online copy of the help distributed with Ubuntu, while the <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community|community-maintained section]]</nowiki> is a publicly-editable wiki covering a wide range of help topics.

As well the search box in the top-right corner of the page, the community documentation has an <nowiki>[[FindPage|advanced search page]]</nowiki> and a <nowiki>[[TitleIndex|list of pages by title]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu MOTUs ===

Ubuntu ''MOTU''s (''Masters Of The Universe'') are developers that look after the Universe and Multiverse repositories.  MOTUs are community members who spend their time maintaining packages.

To learn more about the MOTUs, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:MOTU|MOTU Team page]]</nowiki>.  To find out how to become a MOTU, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:MOTU-GettingStarted|MOTU getting started page]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu Community Learning Project ===

The ''Ubuntu Community Learning Project'' is a community-driven attempt to help users learn Ubuntu.  The project is quite young, and its main focus is currently on issues for new users.  However, some resources for power users and new programmers are becoming available.

To see Ubuntu learning resources, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:Learning|Learning Team page]]</nowiki>.  This page will direct you to other learning resources.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu Beginners Team ===

The ''Ubuntu Beginners Team'' The Ubuntu Beginners Team exists to enhance the initial experience of new Ubuntu users and to guide existing Ubuntu users to become part of the global Ubuntu community. The Beginners Team help you get involved in the wonderful world of the Ubuntu Community. Whether you are a non-technical user or a power user the Ubuntu Community has a place where you can contribute and make a difference in Ubuntu. You can find out more by using the header section at the top of this page. Feel free to poke around by reading our Mission Statement, checking out what our Focus Groups are up to, and learning about our team structure. 

To see Ubuntu learning resources, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:BeginnersTeam|Ubuntu Beginners Team]]</nowiki>.  This page will direct you to other Beginners Team resources.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu Art Team ===

The ''Ubuntu Art Team'' creates all the art that goes into Ubuntu, including Ubuntu websites, programs, and CD covers.

To get started with the art team, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:Artwork|Artwork Team page]]</nowiki>, or <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:Artwork-Incoming|have a look at the todo list]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu Documentation Team ===

The ''Ubuntu Documentation Team'' is the group of volunteers that look after Ubuntu's official documentation and help.ubuntu.com (HUC).

To join the documentation team, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team page]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu BugSquad ===

The ''Ubuntu !BugSquad'' is the group of volunteers that manage all the bugs in Ubuntu programs.

To join the !BugSquad, go to the <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:BugSquad|BugSquad Team page]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Website: The Fridge ===

The <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|Fridge]]</nowiki> is the official information hub for the Ubuntu community.  It discusses current events in the Ubuntu world.

----

=== Website: Ubuntu Screencasts ===

A series of <nowiki>[[http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Screencasts]]</nowiki> are available, demonstrating a variety of Ubuntu issues.

== Other destinations ==

=== System Help and Support ===

Ubuntu comes with an extensive help system.  It is an official part of the Ubuntu project, so information there is of a very high standard.

To use System Help and Support, go to '''System > Help and Support''' on your Ubuntu computer.

----

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="margin-bottom: 100%; float: left" style="border: 0px solid black">
|}
=== Useful Documentation ===

