{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Skype (old version) no longer available in Canonical Partner. New version available on the <nowiki>[[https://www.skype.com/download-skype/skype-for-computer/|Skype web site]]</nowiki>.

----

== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.skype.com|Skype]]</nowiki> is proprietary software that allows you to make calls over the Internet using your computer. Skype uses semi-decentralized peer-to-peer technologies, so your calls do not go through a central server, but through a pool of dedicated servers. It uses its own proprietary communication protocol to achieve this. The Skype software is free to use, but it is not free software; the source code is proprietary and not available for review or modification.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SkypeEthics|SkypeEthics]]</nowiki> gives information on why some users do not use Skype.

Open alternatives <nowiki>[[SoftPhone|Softphones]]</nowiki> using open protocols include <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Twinkle]]</nowiki>.

You need a working sound input and output configuration in order to use Skype. Most modern computers have sound output out of the box, but you need a microphone (headset) for the input. In order to broadcast video, you'll need a webcam - see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SkypeWebCams|SkypeWebCams]]</nowiki>.

Links to detailed information about Skype issues on Ubuntu can be found in the ''Resources'' section below.

=== Installing Skype ===

Skype is available in the <nowiki>[[https://snapcraft.io/skype|Snap store]]</nowiki>, which means it can be found in 16.04 and above directly in Ubuntu Software. Simply launch Ubuntu Software, search for Skype, then click 'Install'.

Alternatively, from the command line:-

<pre>
snap install skype --classic
</pre>

=== Installing Legacy Skype Releases ===

Users of 64-bit Ubuntu, should enable MultiArch if it isn't already enabled by running the command

<pre>
sudo dpkg --add-architecture i386
</pre>

Since Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid Lynx), Skype is part of the Canonical partner repository. To install Skype add the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Repositories/Ubuntu#Adding_Canonical_Partner_Repositories|Canonical Partner Repository]]</nowiki>. You can do this by running the command

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository "deb http://archive.canonical.com/ $(lsb_release -sc) partner"
</pre>

Then install Skype via the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoftwareCenterFAQ|Software-Center]]</nowiki> or via the Terminal.

<pre>
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install skype
</pre>

It is highly recommended to use the package provided in the Canonical partner repository, not the one distributed from the Skype website. This is how installing via a Ubuntu repository guarantees that the file downloaded and installed is the same one distributed from a Ubuntu repository. However, downloading the file via http doesn't guarantee this outcome.

== Running Skype ==

To start Skype, choose '''Applications->Internet->Skype'''. It usually takes a minute or two for Skype to get started, and you may think that nothing is happening, so be patient.

When the Skype window finally opens, sign up (if necessary) and log in to your Skype account. Test your configuration by selecting the <code>Echo / Sound Test Service</code> contact (if not there already, add contact <code>echo123</code>) and clicking on the large green button at the bottom of the Skype window. If the connection is made and you hear a voice, your sound configuration is fine. If you cannot hear a voice, see the troubleshooting section below.

== Adjusting the camera in Skype ==

The Linux Skype client, while it seems to set reasonable defaults, does not offer any significant way to adjust brightness, contrast, backlight compensation etc. If you are using a uvcvideo based device (see lists at <nowiki>[[http://www.ideasonboard.org/uvc/|Linux UVC driver and tools]]</nowiki>) a handy way is to use the '''guvcview''' utility, which opens your webcam and allows you to fiddle with the common settings. These settings (mostly) remain when you close it and open a Skype video preview (in the Options | Video Devices menu) or make a video call. (Note that you cannot have Skype and guvcview reading the camera video stream at the same time.) Install the "guvcview" package in the normal way for this.

Or, if you want to tweak settings live during a preview or call, use the "uvcdynctrl" command-line utility (package has the same name). For example, in a terminal:<<BR>>
`    uvcdynctrl -s 'Backlight Compensation' 7`<<BR>>
will increase the backlight compensation to 7 from its default value of 0. To see a complete list of the possible settings for your webcam, do<<BR>>
`    uvcdynctrl -cv`<<BR>>

You can also use "guvcview" in a control-only mode to adjust camera settings during the call. To do so launch guvcview with the -o switch:<<BR>>
`    guvcview -o`<<BR>>

== Skype UI in other languages ==
You can choose to view the GUI in some other language but English, but only a limited number of translations are included in Skype for Linux by default. <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/a/766252|This Ask Ubuntu answer]]</nowiki> shows how you can install and use translations for other languages.

== Troubleshooting Skype ==
If you need help with troubleshooting Skype please take a look at the following page.
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SkypeTroubleshooting|TroubleShooting Skype]]</nowiki>

== Reporting Skype Bugs ==

Despite Skype being offered in Ubuntu through the Partner repository <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/sample/sources.list|as a service to Ubuntu users by Canonical]]</nowiki> and Skype (a division of Microsoft), it is not considered a part of Ubuntu. Because of this, filing Skype crash reports for processing on Launchpad by <nowiki>[[ApportRetracingService|Apport Retracing service]]</nowiki> is unsupported. If one attempts to do this, they will receive a message noting:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background-color: #eee">Problem in skype-bin <<BR>> The problem cannot be reported: <<BR>> This is not an official Ubuntu package. Please remove any third party package and try again.
|}

One may still file a bug report on Launchpad via <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/skype/+filebug]]</nowiki>.

== See Also ==
* <nowiki>[[InternetApplications]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Ekiga]]</nowiki> OpenSource VoIP application

== External Links ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.skype.com/|www.Skype.com]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://forum.skype.com/|Skype Forum]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skype|Wikipedia Skype]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=81831|Ubuntu Forums-Skype]]</nowiki>
* A description of and workaround for the sound problem: http://juljas.net/linux/skype/. '''Note that this solution requires you to compile a C program.'''
* Skype takes a long time to load? (change command to "skype --disable-dbus") http://forum.skype.com/viewtopic.php?t=47838
* SkypeRecordingHowto Recording Skype Conversations
