{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== SMPlayer ==

== Introduction ==
"SMPlayer intends to be a complete front-end for MPlayer, from basic features like playing videos, DVDs, and VCDs to more advanced features like support for MPlayer filters and more."

In many ways SMPlayer acquits itself well when compared to other front ends of MPlayer. 

Website: http://smplayer.sourceforge.net/

== Installation Instructions ==

Look for the package named ''smplayer'' in the Synaptic Package Manager and install it. 

== Optional Additional Installation Instructions: I. PPA SMPlayer Packages ==
The SMPlayer and other related deb packages available in the Ubuntu repositories are usually not the most up to date. If you wish to install the latest packages then you may access them from the Ubuntu PPA repositories.

Add the following software sources using the Synaptic Package Manager by accessing in turn Settings from the top menu, Repositories, Third-Party Software and Add: 

''deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/rvm/smplayer/ubuntu jaunty main'' 

''deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/rvm/smplayer/ubuntu jaunty main'' 

Open a terminal and type:

''sudo apt-key adv --recv-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com E4A4F4F4''

Press Enter and type your administrator password and press Enter again.

Run the Update Manager from the System Menu by choosing the Administration Sub-Menu.

Once the update process is complete you will have the latest SMPlayer and related deb packages installed.

In case you have opted to set up the SMPlayer PPA software sources before installing SMPlayer then do not use the Update Manager route. Instead follow the steps given in the Installation Instructions section above after setting up the SMPlayer PPA software sources. 

== Optional Additional Installation Instructions: II. PPA MPlayer Packages ==
The MPlayer and other related deb packages available in the Ubuntu repositories are not the most up to date. If you wish to install the latest packages then you may access them from the Ubuntu PPA repository i.e. https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/mplayer

Add the following software sources using the Synaptic Package Manager by accessing in turn Settings from the top menu, Repositories, Third-Party Software and Add: 

''deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/rvm/mplayer/ubuntu jaunty main'' 

''deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/rvm/mplayer/ubuntu jaunty main''
Open a terminal and type:

''sudo apt-key adv --recv-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com 03E02400''

Press Enter and type your administrator password and press Enter again.

Run the Update Manager from the System Menu by choosing the Administration Sub-Menu.

Once the update process is complete you will have the latest MPlayer and related deb packages installed.

In case you have opted to set up the MPlayer PPA software sources before installing MPlayer then do not use the Update Manager route. Instead follow the steps given in the Installation Instructions section above after setting up the MPlayer PPA software sources. 

== Optional Additional Installation Instructions: III. A Note of Caution ==

The Ubuntu PPA packages for SMPlayer and SMPlayer are not officially part of the Ubuntu repositories. So you install them at your own risk. In particular the updating of SMPlayer Ubuntu PPA package and its dependencies need not be perfectly synchronized. In that case the updating tool (Synaptic Package Manager, Update Manager etc.) will 'hold back' these packages and not update them till all dependency requirements are met. This is normal. Do not try and force the installation of a package whose dependencies are not fully satisfied.

== Getting Started With SMPlayer ==

SMPlayer should be available at the Sub-Menu '''Sound & Video''' of the '''Applications''' Menu. 

Click on '''Options''' and choose '''Preferences'''. Then click on '''General''' and '''Audio'''. There check the box next to the caption Use software volume control. Click on '''Apply''' and then '''OK'''. 

== Help and Documentation ==

Screen shots for ''smplayer'' is accessible from: http://smplayer.berlios.de/forums/viewforum.php?id=4 
 
The help forum for ''smplayer'' is available from: http://smplayer.berlios.de/forums/viewforum.php?id=4

You can make requests for new features at: http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=185512&atid=913576

== Further Reading ==
The above mentioned  section on Optional Additional Installation Instructions: I is derived from the information available in the link: https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/smplayer.

The above mentioned  section on Optional Additional Installation Instructions: II is derived from the information available in the link: https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/mplayer.

----
