{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Introduction ===
==== What is Social Networking? ====
Social networking is a way of giving away personal information about yourself to people who can profit from it. It's also great for finding that special someone, or just letting your stalker know where your are. Social networking also helps by providing a permanent record of everything you do, which is useful if you ever screw up and want to make sure you never forget it.

==== What can you do with it? ====
Now that you know what social networking is, it is time to find out what you can do with it. One of the things you can do with the newly integrated social networking tools in Ubuntu is to remove them. This page is here to help others by documenting how to remove the individual bits quickly and easily.

==== MeMenu ====
While many people enjoy the option of being able to proclaim their availability to the world, not everyone wants the world to know when they have stepped away from the keyboard. If you are trying to remove this do not right click the MeMenu and select `remove from panel` as it will also remove the power button.

To remove the MeMenu run the following command
<pre>
sudo aptitude purge indicator-me
</pre>

==== 140 Characters or else ====
If you have trouble expressing yourself in less then 140 characters then you may find that seeing the `Broadcast Accounts...` menu option simply reminds you of your own personal failings. After a while this can become too much.

To remove the `Broadcast Accounts...` menu option run the following command
<pre>
sudo aptitude purge gwibber-service gwibber
</pre>

If you have any other tips or tricks for disintegrating social networking from Ubuntu, please add them to this page.
