{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
Once you've made the move to Ubuntu GNU/Linux or any other Linux Distribution one of the next tasks many computer users have is finding software like the software they are used to running on another operating system like Windows or Macintosh. Luckily, helping you with this issue is something some people take very seriously.

=== Guides to finding Linux/Open Source application ===
If you know the name of the application you're looking for then often you will be able to find it quickly on one of the top three sites below (they are external links):
* <nowiki>[[http://www.osalt.com/|Open Source Alternatives]]</nowiki> ''"Find open source alternatives to your favourite commercial products. Browse through our software categories and compare pros and cons of both commercial products as well as open source software."'' As the name suggests this site is not just about equivalents to Windows or Macintosh applications. OSAlt.com presents Open Source alternatives to commercial software generally.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxalt.com/|The Linux Alternative Project]]</nowiki> ''"The goal is to provide an informational and available website for all linux users."''
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/Linux_software_equivalent_to_Windows_software|Linux software equivalent to Windows software]]</nowiki> ''"When migrating to Linux from Windows, a common question is "Where can I get a program for Linux that is similar to XYZ program on Windows?" Fear not! Listed below are programs that could be considered roughly equivalent to certain popular Windows applications. "''

If that hasn't helped try typing "linux software equivalents" into your favourite search engine. Here are some of the good results from that type of search (they are external links).
* <nowiki>[[http://www.libervis.com/wiki/index.php?title=Table_of_Equivalent_Software|Table of Equivalent Software]]</nowiki> ''"Switched to the wonderful world of GNU/Linux or BSD but are not finding the applications that will do everything you did in Windows? Well, this table is for you!"''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxrsp.ru/win-lin-soft/table-eng.html|The table of equivalents / replacements / analogs of Windows software in Linux]]</nowiki> ''"This list of Linux equivalents / replacements / analogs of Windows software is based on our own experience and on the information obtained from the visitors of this page (thanks!)."'' (not updated since November 2007)

----
CategorySoftware
