{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFF280"> {i} Sound is part of the UserDocumentation series of index pages.  Please read the WikiGuide prior to making changes.
|}

== Решение проблем ==

* Не работает звук? Посмотри здесь: <nowiki>[[SoundTroubleshooting|Решение проблем со звуком]]</nowiki>

== Конкретные аудиокарты ==

* <nowiki>[[HowToConfigureSoundBlasterAudigySEinBreezy]]</nowiki> - Настройка  ALSA-окружения для установки аудиокарты Sound Blaster Audigy SE

== Старые звуковые карты ==

* <nowiki>[[HowToSetupSoundCards]]</nowiki> - Как заставить работать "старую" аудиокарту. Смотрите здесь, если ваша карта не определилась автоматически.

== Общие настройки ==

* <nowiki>[[OpenSoundRU|OpenSound]]</nowiki> - меняем ALSA на OSS 4.x
* <nowiki>[[AudioCapture|Захват звука]]</nowiki> - заставляем работать микрофон
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioPreparation]]</nowiki> - Configuring your system for low-latency, realtime abilities, etc.
* <nowiki>[[HowToJACKConfiguration]]</nowiki> - Настраиваем JACK.
* <nowiki>[[HowToVirtualKeyboardKeymapping]]</nowiki> - Edit the keymap for Virtual Keyboard.

== Bluetooth Звук ==

* <nowiki>[[BluetoothHeadset|Bluetooth-наушники]]</nowiki> - Comprehensive instructions for getting a Bluetooth headset to work with all audio
* <nowiki>[[BluetoothAudio|Bluetooth Audio]]</nowiki> - Configuring Bluetooth devices for audio purposes dealing mainly with drivers a2d and sco
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.bluez.org/wiki/HOWTO/AudioDevices|BlueZ Audio]]</nowiki> - BlueZ's wiki page on how to setup a Bluetooth headset

== Программные Руководства ==

* <nowiki>[[AudioApplicationIntroductions]]</nowiki> - Список наиболее популярных приложений.
* <nowiki>[[HowToQjackCtlConnections]]</nowiki> - Use JACK Control Connections.
* <nowiki>[[HowToSeq24Introduction]]</nowiki> - Создаём простейшую песню используя Seq24, Hydrogen, и ZynAddSubFX.
* <nowiki>[[HowToPureDataIntroduction]]</nowiki> - Introduction to the basics of Pure``Data.
* <nowiki>[[HowToCompressedSoundFonts]]</nowiki> - Extract compressed Sound``Font files.
* <nowiki>[[ThirdPartyAudioApplicationTutorials]]</nowiki> - Links to some of the better 3rd-party audio application tutorials.

----
CategoryHardware
