{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This page covers setting up and using sound cards, speakers, and musical instruments.
Ubuntu supports many pieces of hardware, however if you find that your sound is not working the Troubleshooting pages may be of help.

== General Configuration ==

* <nowiki>[[OpenSound|OpenSound]]</nowiki> - Replacing ALSA with OSS 4.x
* <nowiki>[[AudioCapture|Audio Capture]]</nowiki> - Making your Microphone Work
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudioPreparation]]</nowiki> - Configuring your system for low-latency, realtime abilities, etc.
* <nowiki>[[HowToJACKConfiguration]]</nowiki> - Configure JACK Control.
* <nowiki>[[HowToVirtualKeyboardKeymapping]]</nowiki> - Edit the keymap for Virtual Keyboard.
* <nowiki>[[HowToDisableSystemBell]]</nowiki> - Disabling the system bell.
* <nowiki>[[Midi-SoftwareSynthesisHowTo]]</nowiki> - Play MIDI through your normal sound card
* <nowiki>[[Midi-HardwareSynthesisHowTo]]</nowiki> - Play MIDI through dedicated MIDI hardware

== Application Tutorials ==

* <nowiki>[[AudioApplicationIntroductions]]</nowiki> - List of most popular applications.
* <nowiki>[[HowToQjackCtlConnections]]</nowiki> - Use JACK Control Connections.
* <nowiki>[[HowToSeq24Introduction]]</nowiki> - Create a basic song using Seq24, Hydrogen, and ZynAddSubFX.
* <nowiki>[[HowToPureDataIntroduction]]</nowiki> - Introduction to the basics of Pure``Data.
* <nowiki>[[HowToCompressedSoundFonts]]</nowiki> - Extract compressed Sound``Font files.
* <nowiki>[[ThirdPartyAudioApplicationTutorials]]</nowiki> - Links to some of the better 3rd-party audio application tutorials.

== Specific Cards ==

* <nowiki>[[HdaIntelSoundHowto]]</nowiki>

== Bluetooth Audio ==

* <nowiki>[[BluetoothHeadset|Bluetooth Headset]]</nowiki> - Comprehensive instructions for getting a Bluetooth headset to work with all audio
* <nowiki>[[BluetoothAudio|Bluetooth Audio]]</nowiki> - Configuring Bluetooth devices for audio purposes dealing mainly with drivers a2d and sco
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.bluez.org/wiki/HOWTO/AudioDevices|BlueZ Audio]]</nowiki> - BlueZ's wiki page on how to setup a Bluetooth headset

== Old Sound Cards ==

* <nowiki>[[HowToSetupSoundCards]]</nowiki> - Getting your ''old'' sound card to run.  Look here if your sound card was not detected.

== Troubleshooting ==

 Sound not working? First try some of the basic tips in SoundTroubleshooting.  If you are still without sound, follow the procedure in SoundTroubleshootingProcedure in order to get the latest release of ALSA and for help in posting a complete bug report.

----
CategoryHardware
