{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

Spotify is a popular proprietary music distribution and listening service. It has an official client for Linux systems, although it is not updated as frequently as its Windows and macOS counterparts.

== How to Install ==
Copy and paste this entire command as a whole into a terminal.
<pre>
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys BBEBDCB318AD50EC6865090613B00F1FD2C19886 && echo deb http://repository.spotify.com stable non-free | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/spotify.list && sudo apt update && sudo apt install spotify-client
</pre>

== Running the Windows client through WINE ==
The <nowiki>[[http://www.spotify.com/no/download/windows/|Windows version]]</nowiki> of the client works in WINE. However, some functions such as handling of spotify:// links requires scripts to work with the WINE version.

== See Also ==

* <nowiki>[[Rhythmbox]]</nowiki> - Free Music client, which can handle Ubuntu One Music Store and Jamendo.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.jamendo.com|Jamendo]]</nowiki> - Royalty Free Music Store.
