{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

We're sorry but for some reason we were not able permit you to log into the support portal via the provided Ubuntu Single Sign On (SSO) credentials.

If you have never logged into the support portal before:
* Ensure that the preferred email address used in Ubuntu SSO is identical to the email used when buying or enabling support.  You can change the one in Ubuntu SSO by going to <nowiki>[[https://login.ubuntu.com|the SSO portal login page]]</nowiki>.  
* If someone else at the company has support portal access they can add you as a contact, and then enable your access. You may then send them the link to <nowiki>[[https://portal.support.canonical.com/selfservice/s/article/Managing-Support-Portal-Access|Managing Support Portal Access]]</nowiki> as a guide (support portal access is needed to reach this link).
* Clear your browser's session cookies for the `*.ubuntu.com` and `*.canonical.com` domains.

For users who previously could access the portal before and are unable to now:
* Your assets/contract may have expired
* Renewal of your assets/contract may have encountered an error
In either of these cases, please get in touch with your Canonical sales representative.

For other issues the <nowiki>[[..-FAQs | general SSO FAQ]]</nowiki> may be of help.
