{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Account removal: ====
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Delete_SSO_Account|Can I cancel-delete my SSO account?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Delete_LP_Account|Can I cancel-delete my Launchpad account?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Delete_All_Accounts|Can I cancel-delete all my Canonical-Ubuntu accounts?]]</nowiki>
==== Account merges: ====
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Merge_SSO_Accounts|I have two SSO accounts.  Can I merge them?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Merge_LP_Accounts|I have two Launchpad accounts.  Can I merge them?]]</nowiki>
==== Two-factor authentication: ====
* <nowiki>[[SSO-2FactorAuthentication|Two-factor authentication info ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-2FactorAuthentication|Two-factor authentication FAQs]]</nowiki>
==== OpenID integration: ====
* <nowiki>[[SSO-OpenID integration|How to use Ubuntu SSO as an identity provider for your web site-service ]]</nowiki>

==== Other: ====
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Change_LP_Username|Can I change my username?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-No_Confirm_Email|I'm trying to sign up but I didn't get a confirmation code.  Help?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Reset_Password|I forgot my password.  How can I get into my account?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-No_Reset_Email|I tried to reset my SSO password but didn't get the email with instructions.  Help?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-Got_OOPS|When I try to log in, I get an "OOPS" message.  What should I do?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs-BadBot|When I try to log in, I get a message saying I'm a bad bot and I should go away. What's going on?]]</nowiki>
