{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== I have two SSO accounts. Can I merge them? ==

If you're looking to merge Ubuntu SSO accounts, you can do this yourself. There's no real way to "merge" accounts but you can transfer the email addresses from one account to the other, and eventually close/delete the one you don't want to keep.

However, note that you will lose access to every site attached to one of the accounts, so choose carefully which account you would like to keep.

'''Choosing a primary account:'''
To see which sites are attached to each account, log in to your SSO accounts one at a time at https://login.ubuntu.com/ .  It should show a list of other sites you have recently logged into via that account.  This list represents the sites that you will lose access to, on whichever account you merge ''from''.  The account you merge ''to'' will remain intact, though.

'''Merging other accounts:'''
Before merging your SSO accounts, you should take care of any openID consumer sites or services you may have accounts on.  For example, if you have two Launchpad accounts, you should manually merge those first.  If you have two Ubuntu One accounts, you will need to back up the files from one account and copy them to the other account.  Then you should be ready to merge your SSO accounts.

=== How to perform the merge ===

# Make sure you've read this entire page CAREFULLY and understand the steps and implications before proceeding.
# In the account you want to DELETE, remove the email address you want to add to the other account.
# If the email address in question is the last email address in that account, you will need to delete the SSO account instead: go to https://login.ubuntu.com, and select "delete my account" at the bottom.
# In the account you want to KEEP, add and validate the email address in question.

Please READ CAREFULLY the deletion page before proceeding. In particular, if what you want to merge are actually Launchpad accounts as mentioned earlier, before deleting the SSO accounts, you need to do a merge on Launchpad by following https://help.launchpad.net/YourAccount/Merging.

'''If something goes wrong:'''
If you run into trouble,  <nowiki>[[ISD|send email to ISD]]</nowiki> so we can help untangle any messes.
