{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This page discusses practical differences between Ubuntu and other Linux distributions.  See also the <nowiki>[[..-|all-systems switching guide]]</nowiki>.  If you are switching from Mac OS X, see <nowiki>[[..-FromMacOSX|switching from OS X]]</nowiki>.

Ubuntu is based on Debian, so many tasks are the same in Ubuntu as they are in Debian.

=== Installing Software ===

Like all Debian-based distributions, software is installed in Ubuntu with ''APT''.  This is similar to ''yum'', which is used by !RedHat-based distributions.  If you prefer the command-line, you should install packages with `apt-get`.  Alternatively, ''System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager'' is a graphical interface to APT.

See <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware|Installing Software]]</nowiki> for information on installing packages.

=== Performing Administrative Tasks ===

In Ubuntu, you are recommended to run programs with `sudo` instead of logging in as root with `su`.  Advantages of `sudo` include:
* You can't do anything really bad to your system unless you use `sudo` each time.
* You don't have to remember a root password - '''sudo only needs your own account's password.'''
* sudo remembers for a limited time that you used your password, so you won't have to enter your password every time you use it.

At first, only the user you create during installation will have access to sudo.  To allow additional users to use sudo, add them to the ''admin'' group.

==== Using Sudo ====

To run a command with root privileges, simply open a terminal and type:

<pre>
sudo <command>
</pre>

Replace `<command>` with the command you wish to use.  Sudo will ask for your '''normal user password'''; enter it and press ''return'' to run the command.

Graphical equivalents to `sudo` include `gksudo` and `kdesudo`.  When one of these programs runs, a dialog box will appear asking you to enter your '''normal user password'''. Enter your user password and click ''Continue'' or press the enter button on your keyboard.

To run a proper root shell you can do the following:

<pre>
sudo -i
</pre>

This will ask for your normal user password, enter it and you will be at the root prompt. 

=== Command Line configuration (aliases and inputrc) ===

This section is written for Mandrake/Mandriva users, but probably applies generally. 

==== Useful Shell aliases ====

Mandriva defines the following aliases in `/etc/profile.d/alias.sh`, which make the shell faster to use. They could also go in your `~/.bashrc`:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| `alias ls='ls -F --color=auto'`
| # make ls coloured, and append characters to denote filetype ( eg trailing / on directory names)
|-
| `alias l='ls'`
| #  short for ls
|-
| `alias l.='ls -d .*'`
| # show only hidden files
|-
| `alias la='ls -a'`
| # list all files
|-
| `alias ll='ls -l'`
| # long format listing
|-
| `alias lsd='ls -d */'`
| # list only directories
|-
| `alias lx='ls -X'`
| # list, order by extension
|-
| `alias p='cd -'`
| # previous directory
|-
| `alias s='cd ..'`
| # short for cd ..
|-
| `alias cd..='cd ..'`
| # allow omission of space in cd ..
|-
| `alias rd='rmdir'`
| # Remove a directory
|-
| `alias md='mkdir'`
| # Make a directory
|}

The following make `cp`, `rm`, and mv interactive by default, so you don't overwrite a file by mistake. Most people think this is useful, but some think it makes one careless, as one might come to rely upon the implicit `-i`, on some other system which doesn't have it.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| `alias mv='mv -i'`
|-
| `alias rm='rm -i'`
|-
| `alias cp='cp -i'`
|}

Note that these aliases ''do not work'' when running a command as root using sudo.  One workaround for this is to add `alias sudo="sudo "` to your `.bashrc` (note the extra space in the quotes).  This will allow the first word after 'sudo' to be substituted if an alias exists.
==== Tab Completion Enhancements ====

Mandriva defines the following in `/etc/inputrc`, which prints the list of options and then repeats the prompt where you were:

<pre>
set show-all-if-ambiguous on
</pre>

Putting this in `/etc/inputrc` or `~/.inputrc` will add this function to Ubuntu.

=== Music, Movies, DVD Playback and Java ===

Getting file formats restricted by patents or copyright such as movies and music to play on your Ubuntu system is simple (although not as simple as it could be). See RestrictedFormats. <nowiki>[[Java]]</nowiki> is simple too.

=== Services, Chkconfig and Initscripts ===

Users of Red Hat and Mandriva will be used to configuring which services run by using `chkconfig` command.  `chkconfig` is not available in Ubuntu, but you can install `sysv-rc-conf` instead.

To start and stop services, it's necessary to invoke the `init.d` script directly: `/etc/init.d/ssh start` rather than `service sshd start`.  If you want to have the 'service' syntax back, add this to root's .bashrc:

<pre>
function service (){ /etc/init.d/$@ ;}  
</pre>

Since Intrepid, you can also <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware#installing-a-package|install the following package]]</nowiki>: '''''<nowiki>[[apt:sysvinit-utils|sysvinit-utils]]</nowiki>''''', which provides the `service` command.

Ubuntu runs in runlevel 3 by default, whereas !RedHat and Mandriva use runlevel 5 for graphics, and 3 for console. Ubuntu also has an ''extra'' rcX.d  directory, `/etc/rcS.d`, which runs at boot-up.  Packages like `udev` are started from `rcS.d`. There are some helpful README files in the `/etc/rcX.d` directories.

=== Environment Variables ===

See <nowiki>[[EnvironmentVariables|Environment Variables]]</nowiki> for a full guide to the use of environment variables in Ubuntu.

=== Moving to Ubuntu from openSUSE ===

This section documents a few surprises that long-term openSUSE users may encounter when moving to Ubuntu. It was inspired by a recent transition from openSUSE 11.2 to Ubuntu 10.10.

==== Shell Scripts ====

Some of your tried and tested shell scripts may break in a surprising manner if the first line is <code>#!/bin/sh</code> and you have used features specific to the bash shell. It is tempting to change the first line to <code>#!/bin/bash</code> to get things working, but you may not have realised that that Ubuntu uses the '''d'''ash shell as the default shell. Should you wish to do things in the Ubuntu way, consider searching the web using the keyword '''bashisms''' to understand the differences, and fixing your scripts accordingly.

==== Editing Using vi ====

Experienced users, even those who normally use <code>emacs</code> or <code>xemacs</code>, find themselves using <code>vi</code> to configure things to suit their way of working during the first hour or two of a fresh installation. Ubuntu has a mechanism to choose a preferred editor, but it is frustrating during the first hours when all you want is a working version of <code>vi</code> that doesn't dump escape codes over your file when you use the arrow keys in insert mode, and when <code>nano</code> just looks weird.

The following code snippet, added to your <code>.bashrc</code>, should ease the transition until you figure out how Ubuntu does things.

<pre>
alias rm='/bin/rm -i'
alias vi='/usr/bin/vim.tiny'
alias sudo='sudo '
alias visudo='EDITOR=/usr/bin/vim.tiny /usr/sbin/visudo'
</pre>

==== Using sudo ====

Ubuntu is keen to encourage good practice regarding the preferred use of <code>sudo</code>. As always, it is dangerous to edit <code>/etc/sudoers</code>, even when using <code>sudo visudo</code>. Ubuntu would like you to make your changes in separate files inside the <code>/etc/sudoers.d</code> directory. This is fine, but it does not work out-of-the-box on Ubuntu 10.10 should you wish to use <code>NOPASSWD</code>. This is because the <code>#includedir /etc/sudoers.d</code> directive is found on the last-line-but-one of <code>/etc/sudoers</code> by default; moving it to the end makes <code>NOPASSWD</code> work as one expects.

=== Documentation ===

There are a few good resources you can turn to if you need further help with Ubuntu, these include:

* http://help.ubuntu.com - The main source of Ubuntu documentation
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org|Forums]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com|mailing lists]]</nowiki> and IRC (irc.freenode.net - #ubuntu)
