{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''Reasons for deletion request:''' Outdated and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/ubuntu-help/session-language.html|redundant]]</nowiki>. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gunnarhj]]</nowiki> ----

This article describes you how to switch the language of your Ubuntu session, either temporarily or permanently.

First of all, be sure that the language you would like to use is installed. For this open System > Administration > Language Support, and install the desired language. Here you can set the default language of your system as well. This language will be used for newly created users, but not for your future sessions. Once the necessary language packs are installed, log out from your session.

To change the language of your next session, you will need to change it from the login screen. Before logging in, click on Options (found in the bottom left corner of the login screen) > Select Language and choose the language for your next session. The system will ask you if you would like to change the language of the login screen as well, and whether the change is only for one session or permanent. After this, you may log into your account.

The majority of applications will now use your newly selected language, but some of them have to be set up separately, including Firefox.
----
