{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Overview ==
This page provides a list of capabilities for Synaptics-capable touchpads.  The purpose for this information is to help others determine if their Synaptics-capable touchpad is able to use the multi-finger touch options.  To find out the firmware, id, and caps information of the touchpad:
<pre>
dmesg|grep Touchpad}}}
This will provide information like:
{{{
[   10.975929] Synaptics Touchpad, model: 1, fw: 7.2, id: 0x1c0b1, caps: 0xd04731/0xa40000}}}
In the example above, the firmware version is 7.2, the id is 0x1c0b1 and the caps is 0xd04731/0xa40000.

To find the capabilities:
{{{
synclient -m 100
</pre>
This will start a application that will list the output coming from the touchpad.  The format will look like the following:
<pre>
    time     x    y   z f  w  l r u d m     multi  gl gm gr gdx gdy
 821.327  4042 2838  61 1  4  0 0 0 0 0  00000000   0  0  0   0   0
 824.635  4095 1936  73 1  8  0 0 0 0 0  00000000   0  0  0   0   0
 827.141  1985 4579  72 1 15  0 0 0 0 0  00000000   0  0  0   0   0
</pre>

The information that this document is gathering are 'f' and 'w'.  The f will display the number of fingers and w will provide some other capability information (palm width, two-finger detection, three-finger detection, pen detection). In the example above, one finger is displayed and 'w' shows 4, 8, and 15 which states that it started with a finger then a wide finger or palm was detected.  The 'w' column is categorized as follows (based on documentation from http://www.synaptics.com/decaf/utilities/ACF126.pdf):
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''w value'''
| '''description'''
|-
| 0
| Two fingers on pad
|-
| 1
| Three or more fingers on pad
|-
| 2
| Pen (instead of finger) on the pad
|-
| 3
| Reserved
|-
| 4-7
| Finger on pad
|-
| 8-14
| Large finger or palm on pad
|-
| 15
| Maximum width value
|}
<<BR>>

== Capabilties Table ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''id'''
| '''caps'''
| '''firmware'''
| '''Number of Fingers'''
| '''Pen Detection'''
| '''Palm Width'''
|-
| 0x180b1
| 0xa04711/0xa00000
| 6.3
| 1
| N
| Y
|-
| 0x180b1
| 0xa04713/0x200000
| 6.3
| 3
| N
| Y
|}
