{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

SyncEvolution synchronizes personal information management (PIM) data via various protocols (SyncML, CalDAV/CardDAV, ActiveSync). It syncs contacts, appointments, tasks and memos. It syncs to web services or to SyncML-capable phones via Bluetooth. 

Binaries are available for Linux desktops (using GNOME Evolution, or KDE's Akonadi), for MeeGo and for Maemo (Nokia N900, N9).

'''Homepage:''' https://syncevolution.org/

== Installation ==
Ubuntu users can install syncevolution from official repositories by running following commands at terminal promt:
<pre> 
sudo apt-get install syncevolution 
</pre>

An updated version can also be installed from official SyncEvolution repository. To do this use these commands at terminal prompt:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository "deb http://downloads.syncevolution.org/apt stable main"
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install syncevolution-evolution
</pre>

'''NOTE:''' To use CALDAV/CARDDAV backend one must use '''syncevolution >= 1.2'''

{X} '''Caution:''' '''"Current binary from official repository was NOT built with evolution-data-server >=3.4. To use syncevolution in eds >=3.8 following ppa should be used.'''
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/glatzor/syncevolution/ubuntu $(lsb_release -sc) \ main
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install syncevolution syncevolution-http
</pre>

== Basics ==

This documentation mostly shows the command line tool because it works the same way on all platforms. However, there are <nowiki>[[http://syncevolution.org/documentation/synchronization-guis|graphical user interfaces.]]</nowiki>

SyncEvolution synchronizes with SyncML servers over HTTP and with
SyncML capable phones locally over Bluetooth (new in >=1.0).

=== peer ===
A peer is the entity that data is synchronized with. This can be
another device (like a phone), a server (like Google). We can create a new peer for each different device by simply giving a name of peer-config; i.e. '''gcal''' for Google calendar.

=== data source ===
A name for something that provides access to data.In SyncEvolution's predefined configuration templates, the following names for sources are used. Different names can be chosen for sources that are defined manually.

1. addressbook: a list of contacts
2. calendar: calendar events
3. memo: plain text notes
4. todo: task list
5. calendar+todo: a virtual source combining one local "calendar" and
6. one "todo" source (required for synchronizing with some phones)

One can create a new source i.e."workcal" by running following command at terminal prompt:
<pre>
syncevolution --configure backend=evolution-calendar @default workcal
</pre>

NOTE: A new source-config has to be created '''@default''' context 

=== database ===

Each data source is connected to a database.  As synchronization always happens between a pair of databases, a database has two sides. One side of a sync is remote and other is local. 

* Example of remote database: https://www.google.com:443/calendar/dav/GOOGLECALENDARID@group.calendar.google.com/events/

* Example of local database: These are basically name of local evolution calendars, contacts (Personal, Work).

To view all available local databases run following command at command-prompt:
<pre>
syncevolution --print-databases
</pre>

One also can connect a database to a new data source:
<pre>
syncevolution --configure backend=evolution-calendar database=Work @default workcal
</pre>

To view all commandline usage of syncevolution, visit <nowiki>[[https://syncevolution.org/documentation/syncevolution-usage | syncevolution-usage]]</nowiki> page.

== Synchronization (How-To) ==

1. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SyncEvolution/synchronize-multiple-google-calendars-with-evolution-calendars|Synchronize multiple Google-Calendars with evolution-calendars(caldav)]]</nowiki>
2. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SyncEvolution/synchronize-google-contacts-with-evolution-addressbooks|Synchronize Google-Contacts with Evolution Adressbooks (carddav).]]</nowiki>
3. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SyncEvolution/Synchronize-evolution-data-with-caldav-cardav-server|Synchronize evolution-data (calendars, contacts, todo etc.) with caldav/cardav server like fruux, Owncloud, Radicale etc.]]</nowiki>
4. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SyncEvolution/synchronize-evolution-data-among-computers-over-lan|Synchronize evolution-data among computers over Wifi/Lan.]]</nowiki>
