{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Warning:''' While this guide works fine for most users, making unsupported changes to your iPhone or iPod Touch is done at your own risk and could result in data loss and possibly void your warranty.  Follow this guide with care.

There are multiple techniques listed here.  Review the table of contents and select the one suitable for your situation.

<nowiki>[[iTunesVirtualBox|Using iTunes via Sun Virtualbox running Windows]]</nowiki>

== Syncing Music on Firmware Versions 1.x ==

Amarok and gtkpod can wirelessly sync music with iPod Touch and iPhone running the 1.x firmware, including adding, editing and playing songs and playlists.

This guide requires Ubuntu 7.10, 8.04 or 8.10. Please note: Users with iPhone/iPod Touch using firmware 2.0 and above will have to change their checkpoint.xml for this to work. More details on how to do this below.
==== Set up the iPhone or iPod ====

On your iPhone or iPod Touch:

Your iPhone or iPod Touch must be "jailbroken" so you can run Installer. Follow these <nowiki>[[http://www.touchdev.net/wiki/How_to_Escape_Jail|instructions on jailbreaking]]</nowiki> to properly jailbreak. Note that you might need a Mac or Windows to do this.

# Click '''Settings''' → '''General''' and set '''Auto-lock''' to '''Never'''.  This will ensure the iPhone keeps the WiFi connection open.
# Click '''Settings''' → '''WiFi''' and select your WiFi network. Click the '''Static''' button and change the '''IP Address''' to an address that's outside the dynamically assigned range of your network. This will ensure your iPhone is always contactable at the same address for syncing.
# Open '''Installer'''.
# Click '''All Packages''' → '''BSD Subsystem''' → '''Install'''
# Click on '''All Packages''' → '''OpenSSH''' → '''Install'''.

(I believe that if OpenSSH is installed from Cydia, then it is not necessary to install BSD Subsystem. However, I don't think this is ste's openSSH and I can't get keys to work with it)

==== Set up Ubuntu ====

A third party source provides the '''ipod-convenience''' package needed to properly mount and unmount an iPhone or iPod Touch, and for gtkpod users, a newer gtkpod is required for the iPhone and iPod Touch.

** Extra steps for versions pre-8.04:
## Click '''System''' → '''Administration''' → '''Synaptic Package Manager'''. Once Synaptic starts, click '''Settings''' → '''Repositories''' → '''Third Party Software'''. Click '''Add''' and use '''deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/ipod-touch/ubuntu gutsy main''' as the APT line. (this source should have a key file to avoid the prompt to install without authentication).
## Click '''Reload'''
----
# Before installing newer packages, make sure to first uninstall '''libgpod'''.
# Install the '''ipod-convenience''' package, as well as either '''amarok''' or '''gtkpod''' (or both if you like). When asked, enter the IP address of your iPod Touch or iPhone that you selected earlier. When asked for a folder to mount your iPod Touch or iPhone, either leave the default of '''/media/ipod''' or another folder if you prefer - just remember to use that folder name for rest of this guide. The package will make the folder for you.

# Plug in your iPod Touch or iPhone via USB. This is '''REQUIRED''' when you run the next steps for the first time, as the USB connection is used to generate a hash required by the iTunes Database (if this fails to generate properly, see the troubleshooting section below). An added benefit is this also makes sure that your device won't turn the wifi into low power mode, breaking the transfer connection.
# When done, click '''Applications''' → '''Accessories''' → '''Terminal'''. To mount your device, run: <pre>
$ iphone-mount
or
$ ipod-touch-mount
</pre> When prompted, enter your iPhone or iPod Touch's root password - by default, '''dottie''' in firmware 1.0 and '''alpine''' in 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4.
1. Unmount your device, by running: <pre>
$ iphone-umount
or
$ ipod-touch-umount
</pre>

===== Amarok =====

Note: This guide is written for Amarok 1.X, and Amarok 2.x does not support iPhones and iPod touches at this time.

1. Click '''Applications''' → '''Sound and Video''' → '''Amarok'''
When you first open up Amarok:

2. Click '''Settings''' → '''Configure Amarok'''.
3. Choose '''Media Devices'''.
4. Hit '''Add Device'''.
5. Select '''Apple iPod Media Device''' for the plugin type.
6. Point it at your mount point, the default being '''/media/ipod''' unless you chose another one when setting up ipod-convenience.
7. Back in the main app, click the blue cog icon called '''Configure Device''' just above the iPhone or iPod Touch. For '''Pre-Connect Command''', add '''iphone-mount''' (or '''ipod-touch-mount'''), for the '''Post-Disconnect Command''', add '''iphone-umount''' (or '''ipod-touch-umount''')
8. In Devices, click '''Connect'''. After entering your password, your iPhone or iPod touch should now appear in Amarok.
9. Once connected, click on the double arrows on the right hand side of the '''Connect''', '''Disconnect''', and '''Transfer''' buttons. A list of options opens up, one of which is '''iPod'''.  Choose '''iPod''' → '''Set iPod Model''' → '''Mobile Phones''' → '''iPhone''' (or your specific iPod Touch model).
10. iPod Touch 1st Generation works best as ''Mobile Phones -> iPhone'', including cover transfer.

===== gtkpod =====

1. Check the version of gtkpod '''Help''' → '''About'''. If you are using version 0.99.10, your database will be corrupted upon writing to it. The solution is to get ahold of version 0.99.12+, either by compiling it from <nowiki>[[http://gtkpod.org|gtkpod.org]]</nowiki>, or by fetching <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/gtkpod|the package from the Hardy universe repositories]]</nowiki>. Note that if you are running Hardy, you will most likely be using that 0.99.12 package. On a more comforting note, the database corruption from 0.99.10 can be fixed by rewriting it with 0.9.12.
2. Click '''Applications''' → '''Sound and Video''' → '''gtkpod'''
3. When you first open gtkpod you may receive some errors.  Simply click OK to proceed.  Your iPhone or iPod Touch should now appear in gtkpod.  If it doesn't, you can manually add it's mount point in the options dialog.
4. Right-click on the iPhone or iPod, and choose '''Edit iPod properties''' (or choose '''Edit''' > '''Edit repositories/iPod options''') and change the iPod model to reflect your iPhone or iPod Touch.

Simply add music to the iPhone or iPod Touch like you would any other iPod and '''Save Changes''' when done.

==== Passwordless Access ====
In order for programs like Amarok to connect to your iPhone via SSH without asking for a password, you can set up key based logins. You can skip this step if you're happy mounting it manually from a terminal, typing your password each time. 

1. Make a private and a public key.  We'll specify a different identity than the default, so it won't conflict with any existing keys you have. Run the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
$ ssh-keygen -t rsa -f ~/.ssh/iphone_identity -N ""
</pre>
  This will create a directory called .ssh in your home directory, and place three files in there: iphone_identity, iphone_identity.pub, and known_hosts. iphone_identy is your private keyfile, and iphone_identity.pub is your public one. You want your device to have the public key so you can authenticate towards it with your private one.
2. Install your public key to the device. If it asks if you want to accept the untrusted device as a trusted host, do so.
<pre>
$ ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/iphone_identity.pub root@<device ip>
</pre>
3. Log into your iPhone again.
<pre>
$ ssh root@<device ip>
</pre>
  If it at this point asks for your password, that means the server installed on the device has not yet been configured to accept keys as a method of authorization. Ergo, you are not using "Ste's OpenSSH package", which will be mentioned later in this wiki. For the time being, the default password for 1.1.0 phones is 'dottie', and 'alpine' for 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 phones. 
4. Change the password. This is important for security. You will eventually be logging in via your key anyway, but make it something you'll remember.
<pre>
$ passwd
</pre>
*** NOTE: On firmware 1.1.3, BSD Subsystem maintainers highly recommend against using the "passwd" command until a stability bug is fixed. Until then, you can use this command, and replace the output password hashes for the users 'root' and 'mobile' in /etc/master.passwd on your device.
<pre>
$ perl -e 'print crypt("yourpasswordhere", "/s");'
</pre>
----
The following steps do NOT apply to Ste's OpenSSH package, which is probably the most common one now. In order to get passwordless login working with Ste's package, rename your ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file on your device to ~/.ssh/authorized_keys2 and proceed straight to adjusting the permissions as described below ("if all else fails"). Full instructions can be found here: <nowiki>[[http://blog.psmxy.org/pkg-info/openssh/]]</nowiki>

If you are not using said package on your device, follow these instructions to enable the public key authorization method.

1. Edit /etc/sshd_config (/etc/ssh/sshd_config on iPhone OS 3.0):
<pre>
$ pico /etc/sshd_config
</pre>
2. Scroll down to the segment beginning with '#RSAAuthentication', and set it up as follows:
<pre>
RSAAuthentication yes
PubkeyAuthentication yes
AuthorizedKeysFile .ssh/authorized_keys
</pre>
  Remove any commenting hashmarks (#) prepended to the beginning of these three lines.
3 Hit Ctrl+X to exit, and save your changes.
4. At this point you should be finished. Reboot your device.
<pre>
$ reboot
</pre>
5. Give it some time to start up, then try logging back in. This time, it should automatically authenticate using your private key.
<pre>
$ ssh -i ~/.ssh/iphone_identity root@<device ip>
</pre>
6. To make the process even simpler, add these lines to your ~/.ssh/config file on your computer.
<pre>
Host iphone
  HostName <device ip>
  User root
  IdentityFile ~/.ssh/iphone_identity
</pre>

 Now you should be able to login with this simple command:
<pre>
$ ssh iphone
</pre>

===== If all else fails =====
If you're still asked for a password:
* Check your local ~/.ssh/iphone_identity.pub file and compare it with the ~/.ssh/authenticated_keys file on your device. Does any entry match? If not, try the ssh-copy-id command again. Alternatively, just copy the contents of your iphone_identity.pub file and paste it on a line of its own in authenticated_keys. Entries '''must''' be one line only.
* Did you properly input and save the changes to /etc/sshd_conf?
* Did you reboot the device after changing /etc/sshd_conf?
* If you used a tool other than ssh-copy-id, check the permissions for your SSH files. If you type the following command, it should look like this:
<pre>
total 4
drwxr-xr-x 2 root wheel 102 Nov 21 04:25 .
drwxr-xr-x 6 root wheel 306 Nov 20 00:02 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 root wheel 395 Nov 20 03:01 authorized_keys
</pre>
* Try resetting the permissions on the iPod or iPhone's SSH files manually:
<pre>
chmod 755 /var/root
chmod 700 /var/root/.ssh
chmod 644 /var/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
</pre>

* For more debugging, you can get verbose output from ssh:
<pre>
$ ssh -vvv iphone
</pre>

* You can also turn on syslog on the device to have it log any error messages that the SSH server might output.
<pre>
$ ssh iphone
Password:
$ echo "*.* /var/log/syslog" > /etc/syslog.conf
$ killall syslogd
$ /usr/sbin/syslogd -bsd_out 1
$ tail -f /var/log/syslog
</pre>
==== Retrieving and setting the Firewire GUID (FirewireGuid) ====

When you issue iphone-mount or ipod-touch-mount for the first time, the program silently attempts to generate this value using a USB connection. If you have never connected your device via USB before and try to mount it via WiFi for the first time, this step is missed and you end up with a database that your device refuses to read. This is (in nearly all cases) because the Firewire GUID (FirewireGuid) that the iPhone/iPod Touch specifically use to hash their database is either missing or invalid.

To fix this manually:
* Plug your iPhone/iPod device into your Ubuntu machine via USB
* In Ubuntu, run '''Applications''' → '''Accessories''' → '''Terminal'''
* Issue iphone-mount or ipod-touch-mount (depending on your device) in the terminal
* Path to /media/ipod/iPod_Control/Device ("cd /media/ipod/iPod_Control/Device", assuming you used /media/ipod for the mount location)
* Run "sudo lsusb -v -d 05ac: | grep iSerial | awk '{print $3}' | cut -b1-16  | xargs printf "FirewireGuid: 0x%s\n" > SysInfo" (Found <nowiki>[[http://www.fredemmott.co.uk/blog_121|here]]</nowiki>).
* In your media application of choice, transfer a new song and/or sync your iPod. Depending on what media application you use, you might have to re-transfer all songs.
* Reboot your device

You may also get the GUID directly from the device by executing: 
<pre>
 /usr/sbin/ioreg  -n IOIpodUSBDevice  -w 0 | grep DeviceConfiguration | cut -d '"' -f 44 | cut -c 1-16
</pre>

If all goes well, your music should now be recognized on the device!
 
 
==== Alternative solution with MNPlight ====

* Add the http://iphone.lefessant.net/iphone link to your Ipod Touch or Iphone installer.
* Install MNPlight.
* For Ipod Touch you need to set the "FirewareGuid" of device (see previous section).
* Set the Fireware GUID in '''MNPlight'''→'''Preferences'''.
'''Warning:''' Without this step MNPlight will corrupt your music database!
* Copy your music in to '''/var/root/Media/MNPlight/Music''' folder of your Iphone/Ipod Touch and import it by '''MNPlight'''→'''Playlists'''→'''Import songs from directory'''

=== Troubleshooting ===
==== Programs fail to sync, stating the device is not present ====

A "gotcha" currently exists if you accidentally "sudo" the iphone-mount or ipod-touch-mount step. Doing so will create a template file set at your mount location (eg. /media/ipod) and subsequent mount operations will fail uncleanly. If this occurs, verify the device is indeed not mounted, clean out /media/ipod, verify the permissions are correct, and mount again as your normal user.

==== Music appears in the Ubuntu media player, but is not playable or does not appear on the iPhone/iPod device ====

The most frustrating "gotcha" is failing to have a correct '''FirewireGuid''' written onto your device. This is normally generated when the device is attached for the first time, assuming you had the device plugged in via USB at the time. If this hash is incorrect or not present, iTunes will refuse to load the database.

If the music still doesn't appear on your iPhone/iPod, you might have to restart the music playing programme. Select music and hold down the main button for a few seconds. You'll be dumped back to the main screen. 

Please see the section above on setting the Firewire GUID.

==== Firmware 1.1.3 ====

If you soft-upgraded to firmware version 1.1.3 with the Official iPhone Dev package (this does not seem to affect iPhones updated or restored firmware 1.1.3 iPhone jailbroken with ziPhone), there may be issues with getting in via SSH (Connection refused, timeout, etc). Uninstall the OpenSSH package, reinstall the BSD Subsystem package, then reinstall OpenSSH.
Try logging back in as root, with the password as whatever you set it to in a previous firmware version, or the default, which is still 'alpine'. 

Once you have logged in, changes need to be made before you can mount everything properly with the ipod-convenience script. User-run programs now run as user "mobile" instead of root, and media has been moved from /private/var/root/Media to /private/var/mobile/Media. The ipod-convenience script expects them to be in the former, so a link needs to be made to point to the new Media folder. Issue
<pre> 
$ ln -s /private/var/mobile/Media /private/var/root/Media 
</pre>
while logged into the iPhone or ipod touch via SSH. 

An alternative solution is to modify the ipod-convenience script (no need to create the link on the iphone/ipod touch):
<pre>
$ cd /usr/share/ipod-convenience/
$ sudo cp mount-umount mount-umount.bak
$ sudo gedit mount-umount
</pre>
...and at line 62 modify:
<pre>
sshfs root@$IPADDRESS:/var/root/Media $MOUNTPOINT/ -o workaround=rename
</pre>
...into:
<pre>
sshfs root@$IPADDRESS:/var/mobile/Media $MOUNTPOINT/ -o workaround=rename
</pre>

==== No Cover Art with Amarok ====

If you find that after syncing your iPhone with Amarok the coverart is missing it is very likely that you are using the wrong version of libgpod. Amarok depends on libgpod and the Ubuntu repositories version installs libgpod v2 instead of the needed libgpod v3. Workaround:

* Uninstall libgpod v2. This will also uninstall Amarok 
* Open Synaptic and uncheck all the repositories but http://ppa.launchpad.net/ipod-touch/ubuntu
* Refresh
* Install libgpod v3 and Amarok
* Re-check all the previously unchecked repositories
* Start Amarok and connect to your iPhone
* Make sure that the correct kind of iPod is selected in Amarok (under iPod → iPod Models → Mobile Phones)
* Click on Refresh Graphics and on Disconnect (this might take a while)

You should have your Coverart correctly loaded on the iPhone afterwards.

==== Device full, "how were I to know?" ====

If you have followed previous steps and set it up to mount your device to a directory on your local computer, there is no way for any program interacting with that directory to tell how much free space is left on the device. In essence, the directory exists on your harddrive, and any attempts to divine free space would simply return the free space of that harddrive. For the time being, you can query the device itself '''in an SSH session'''. See previous sections of this wiki for information on how to connect to it in such a way.

Log into the device via SSH, then enter this.
<pre>
$ df -m
</pre>
The output of that command will look something akin to the following:
<pre>
Filesystem   1M-blocks Used Avail Capacity  Mounted on
/dev/disk0s1       300  277    19    94%    /
devfs                0    0     0   100%    /dev
/dev/disk0s2      7443 7395    48    99%    /private/var
</pre>
  The bottom-most line signifies the storage partition.
## '''Filesystem''' is a denominator for the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Device_node|device node]]</nowiki> of that partition.
## '''1M-blocks''' shows its capacity in megabytes. In this case, 7443 mb.
## '''Used''' shows how many megabytes are used. In this case, 7395 mb.
## '''Capacity''' shows how much space is currently used, in percent. In this case, 99%.
## '''Mounted on''' shows where the partition is internally mounted on the device, much like you mount the device's SSH interface to a local directory for file transfers.

Likely, you will find only the third and fourth columns of interest.

==== Firmware 2.x will not sync ====
See below.

== Syncing iPhones and iPods Touch w/ Firmware 2.x ==
Apple has encrypted the library database on the latest firmware, and as such the above approach will not work. Apparently using the above approach will transfer the music, but Apple's music player on the iPod will not recognize any of the transferred files. The solution, then, is to use another music player on the iPod. Use the steps below to wireless transfer music to your iPod.

=== Syncing with Firmware 2.x possible! ===
''' Actually, you can edit /System/Library/Lockdown/Checkpoint.xml, find the DBVersion key, and change its value from 4 to 2 (MAKE A BACKUP FIRST!!!).  See http://marcansoft.com/blog/2009/01/using-amarok-and-other-itunesdb-compatible-software-with-the-iphone-2x/.  This allows you to sync with libgpod, as well as any apps that use libgpod (Tested with Amarok and gtkpod:  it works fine, except that podcasts cannot be synced (sunk?). Music syncs just fine. Rhythmbox doesn't seem to recognize it though). '''

Use the guide above for further configuration.

=== Setting up the iPod or iPhone ===
# Make sure your iPod is jailbroken. QuickPwn works well for 2.x firmware, and a quick Google search will point you to directions (Unfortunately, you'll need to borrow a Windows or a Mac machine for the jailbreaking, but after that, it's Ubuntu all the way). In the process of jailbreaking, make sure to select the option that installs Cydia (Cydia is a front-end for the <nowiki>[[http://www.saurik.com/id/1|iPhone's apt port]]</nowiki>).
# On your newly jailbroken iPod, update Cydia and <nowiki>[[http://www.instructables.com/id/S9CQ5TEFNZA8J0O/|install OpenSSH through it]]</nowiki>.You may need to reboot your iPhone by holding down the power button after installing OpenSSH to start the SSH Daemon. 
=== Transferring Music ===
# In Ubuntu, select Places>Connect to Server. In the dropdown box labeled "Service type," select "SSH". In the "Server" field, input your iPod's ip address (this can be found on your iPod by going to Settings>Wi-Fi>arrow-next-to-SSID-of-network-you're-connected-to). Finally, under username, enter "mobile". Leave other fields blank. Click connect. (In Kubuntu, first install the 'SSH' and 'OpenSSH' packages. Then enter the following in Konqueror: sftp://root@[IP address]/var/mobile/media/music/ to get to your Music folder. Or, for videos, enter, sftp://root@[IP address]/var/media/. Your folder's contents will appear in Konqueror, and then just drag-and-drop as below.)
# When it asks for a password, enter "alpine" (this can--and should--be changed, see below).
# You should now have your iPod mounted on your desktop, and can transfer music onto it.
=== Playing Music with standard iPod application ===
# To see new Tracks you transferred to the iPod, you need to fully quit and restart the Music Application. One Click on the Home Button only "minimizes" it, pressing the Home button 5 secs should work. I use SBSettings and the "Processes" Switch. Works fine. Restarting the iPod by pressing the "On/Off" Switch for 5 secs works, too.
# Enjoy!
=== Tips, Tricks, Troubleshooting, etc ===
* The standard iPod music player is able to display album art embedded in ID3 tags OR organized as iTunes does it (in separate folders somewhere in your iTunes library location). If you have previusly synchronized your music with iTunes, the album art IS NOT embedded in the ID3 tags of your files. Adding music through amarok or gtkpod will switch the album art display mode of your iPod to displaying only embedded album art, so you'll probably lose most of the album art added through iTunes. The only workaround I found is to copy your iPod music to your computer with amarok, then use EasyTag to embed the album art to the ID3 tags and then sync back to the ipod (it can be very time consuming).
* You can change your password in your iPod by logging in from the terminal. Type "ssh mobile@<ipod's_ip_address>", login, and type passwd to change the password.
* There is also a root user on your iPod, and it is advisable to change that password as well. Follow the directions above, but use "ssh root@<ipod's_ip_address>" in the terminal.
* You can also transfer music from the terminal using scp, but I'm sure you already know how to do that ; )

=== Converting/Watching Videos ===

If you want to convert videos for use on the default iPhone video player, Handbrake is a good choice (there's now a native Linux GUI version available) -- it is now accepting any video input to create a Apple-compatible video file. 

However, if your iPhone is jailbroken and you don't want to play the video back using the native iPhone video player (which for example doesn't support XVid/DiVX file formats), you do need to use a video converter like WinFF and an alternative video player such as MPlayer.

This conversion involves using mplayer4iphone (available through Cydia on jailbroken iPhones) and WinFF using an iPhone 3g with 2.2 firmware.
 
1. Jailbreak your iPhone

2. Install mplayer4iphone through Cydia

3. Install WinFF on Ubuntu (Medibuntu repository) through Synaptic

4. Now convert your videos using WinFF. Use these settings: 480x320, 15fps, XVid in AVI. It's crucial to keep the fps to 15, since 24fps, etc. was jerky for me. Here's my preset for WinFF if you want to create one: -r 15 -vcodec libxvid -vtag XVID -s 480x320 -aspect 4:3 -maxrate 1800k -b 1500k -qmin 3 -qmax 5 -bufsize 4096 -mbd 2 -bf 2 -flags +4mv -trellis 1 -cmp 2 -subcmp 2 -g 300 -acodec libmp3lame -ar 48000 -ab 128k -ac 2

5. Once you have your video converted, connect to your iPhone using the SSH method detailed above. This will open a window showing your iPhone file structure.

6. Mplayer needs your videos to be in this folder: root/var/media. Just drag your video files to that folder. (In Kubuntu, first install the 'SSH' and 'OpenSSH' packages. Then enter the following in Konqueror: sftp://root@[IP address]/var/media/. Your folder's contents will appear in Konqueror, and then just drag-and-drop as above.)

Now you can just play your files in fullscreen on Mplayer on your iPhone, with audio synch working fine.  

Enjoy!

== Syncing via Cable ==

=== iFuse ===
iFuse is a FUSE-based access method for the iPod Touch and iPhone, making them appear like normal hard disks.

To sync music with a jailbroken 2.2.1 iPod Touch, install iFuse from the project's repository, then plug in your iPod touch. HAL should pick it up and GTKpod will see the device. As long as you have changed the value of the key 'DBVersion' in  /System/Library/Lockdown/Checkpoint.xml (make a backup first!) to 2, music will sync and the database of the device will be updated. After restarting the Music application on the device, you should see the new tracks. This method '''does''' work.

One annoyance is that while HAL will automount the device for you and place it on your desktop, you cannot unmount it manually by the usual methods (umount, or right click and 'Unmount device') because the FUSE mount was created by the hald/system user and not your username. However, if one takes care to right click on the device in GTKpod and select 'Eject iPod' before disconnection, harm to the filesystem may be avoided.

Get iFuse at http://matt.colyer.name/projects/iphone-linux/index.php?title=Main_Page.

=== iTunnel ===
Go to http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~jingsu/itunnel/ and download the iTunnel program for linux. It includes a binary or compile your own.
Start the Binary in a Terminal/Xterm and create the Tunnel on a self chosen port with ''./itunnel 7777''.
Then you have to mount the ipod's file system with ''sshfs -p 7777 root@localhost:/var/mobile/Media /media/ipod''. Set up the FirewireGUID as described in the Firmware 1.x Guide. Then Start your Program for transferring MP3s ( amarok etc. ) and point it to ''/media/ipod''. You should be able to transfer Music to the device. 

=== Speed ===
iTunnel gives me about 400kb/sec
iFuse gives me about 250kb/sec
WLan gives me about 10 - 800kb/sec, WLan crowded places give less :)
It is a good idea to create a Ad-hoc WLan and connect directly your iPod to you PC. I take speed up to 1,5MB/sec.

== Copying photos to the iPhone or iPod Touch ==

Photos can be copied into the Media/DCIM directory in the mobile account.  They need to follow the directory and image numbering conventions used by the iPhone/iPod.  Multiple image formats are allowed, but they should have a thumbnail (.THM) file which is a 55x55 pixel JPG file.

There is a command-line script that can copy images to the iPod Touch or iPhone using ipod-convenience or scp available at http://marginalhacks.com/#img2iphone

Note that it is free to use and source available, but not technically open source.

""Alternative method using a webserver (3.x)""
You can use a webserver set up, accessible either via a local IP over wifi or a hosted server to transfer images to your iTouch or iPhone. Transfer the image to the webserver (/var/www/photo.jpeg), and then go to your IP in the web browser followed by the relative path and filename of the image (192.168.2.4/photo.jpeg), then hold your finger on the image until options appear. Click "Save Image" and it will be available in your photo browser for using as a wallpaper or whatever.

== Syncing contacts calendar notes ==

First of all get the Funambol Server:
https://www.forge.funambol.org/download/

After that download their Administration Guide:
http://download.forge.objectweb.org/sync4j/funambol-installation-and-administration-guide.pdf

Setting up the server following administration guide is straight forward and not that difficult. Here are the main steps: 

Start Install: "./sh funambol-8.0.0.bin" read and accept the licens and press Enter to install it to /opt/Funambol you can either start the server when asked by the installation process or later by executing: "/opt/Funambol/bin/funambol start"

Funambol requires java, but the jre is shipped with the server, so there's no need to care about.

Start the server and go to http://localhost:8080/ to see if it's running. Now bring up the admintool executing "/opt/Funambol/admin/bin/funamboladmin"

Go to "File" in the menu and choose "Login". User the default values for your first login. (You should later change the password. See the admin guide for details about that.)

User name: admin
Password: sa

Now "localhost" should appear in the main window, expand the tree and double click on user. And choose "add" in the right window. Now enter user credentials and select role "User". Click "add" and voila your server with an account is set up and ready for syncing.

Next step is getting your iphone ready. If your device is jailbroken, install "iPhoneSync" from Cydia. Otherwise go to the appstore and install the app "Funambol". iPhoneSync will let you synchronize contacts calendar and notes. Funambol will only allow Contacts (probably due restrictions in the appstore). Open the app and go to "Settings"->"Account" and enter "http://192.168.1.7:8080/funambol/ds" as server (replace the ip with the local one of your server or it's hostname). For username and password you choose the same credentials, you entered adding a new user to funambol. Leave the settings and tap "Sync All" or "Sync Contacts" depending which app you're using. If everything went fine, the data from your iphone should now be transfered to the funambol server.

Now let's get to the linux client side.

Install thunderbird (a.k.a. icedove). On debian 
"apt-get install icedove" should do the job.

Now get the Lightning-Plugin and install it.
http://www.mozilla.org/projects/calendar/lightning/

Also get the Funambol Mozilla Sync Client and install that too.
https://mozilla-plugin.forge.funambol.org/

If you select the Tools menu in thunderbird, you should now find a "Funambol sync..." entry, which opens a small window with another Tools menu, where you can find the Options. Enter the same server location as in your iphone and the same user credentials. Close the options and click "Sync All" in the funambol window. thunderbird should now be synchronized with your iphone data on the funambol server.

If you prefer kontact and got an imap server running and use the buildin kolab imap store, to keep pim data on your boxes synchronized. Installing the kolab plugin for thunderbird, you can now keep kontact in sync with the iphone, using thunderbird just as a middleman in the syncing process. It's not a fancy solution, but it at least it works. The plugin can be found at https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/addon/519

== Firmware 3.0 ==
A project to enable syncing with iPhone Firmware 3.0 is under way (30 October 2009). See:
http://marcansoft.com/blog/2009/10/iphone-syncing-on-linux/

One must install ifuse from the Ubuntu repos. Then, installing the SVN versions (as of November 25th, 2009) of gtkpod, libgpod, usbmuxd and related dependencies (from source - the distro packages MAY NOT work!) enables:

* Syncing Music.
* Syncing Photos.
* Syncing Videos.

Even though the support is alpha/beta in quality, it works well enough for testing purposes. In one user's case, it has operated fine syncing large amounts of Audio and video both to and from the iDevice running firmware 3.1.2. After a short "Updating Library.." setop on the iDevice the next time the Music or Video application was opened, all songs and videos were present, had album art, and played correctly. YAY!

It's possible now (December 28th, 2009), instructions are provided on these sites:
http://marcansoft.com/blog/2009/10/iphone-syncing-on-linux-part-2/

http://www.mexlinux.com/how-to-sync-music-between-iphone-and-ubuntu/

http://fatbuttlarry.blogspot.com/2010/01/ipod-touch-iphone-3g-ubuntu-910-in-5.html

Very simple but in german
http://fernmannblog.wordpress.com/2009/12/18/howto-iphone-os-3-x-unter-linux-synchronisieren-diesmal-uber-gvfs/
----

== Alternative Options ==

There are other ways to achieve similar results without the need to "jailbreak" the iPhone, and without any modifications to your systems.  One way is to simply use the web browser of the iPhone, or other device, in conjunction with sophisticated new web-based services.

For one example of this, see the How To article entitled, "How to Wirelessly Synch an iPhone / iPod Touch / Android to Ubuntu / Mac / Windows / Any Browser":

http://brucewagner.posterous.com/how-to-wirelessly-synch-an-iphone-ipod-touch

----
CategoryPhone
