{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== easmy Blueprint ==
Please notice that some ideas on independent projects are described in  <nowiki>[[ easmy-spec |a companion page]]</nowiki>

Before I start laying out my plans for the future development, let me briefly describe the current state on the Launchpad.  The project is made up of three components which can be downloaded with the commands quoted (you must have installed Bazaar version 2.0 or higher):

=== Legacy Programs ===
Download command:
<pre>
bzr branch lp:~algis.kabaila/easmy/fem/
</pre>
In ''Bazaar'' (''bzr'') terms, branch means something quite different to ''branches'' directory in ''Subversion'' ('''svn'''). The above ''bzr'' branch has the contents of ''svn'' ''trunk'' and ''branches''.  In turn, ''svn  branches'' have two subdirectories: '''one''' for the early version, which is very versatile, but requires more data preparation and '''two''' which has a fully working, reasonably tested analysis program.  The trunk has a version just prior to the currently used development version.  All three version of the program in this bzr branch are fully working and checked as far as possible.  The differences between the versions are substantial and difficult to state in a very brief form that is necessary for a wiki.
=== Current Development Program ===
Download command:
<pre>
bzr branch lp:~algis.kabaila/easmy/fem2/
</pre>
At the point of writing, this is fully functional program.  What is planned to implements is a '''plugin''' system.  A broad outline of the ''plugins'' system is optionally displayed by the program - please read the text files in the head directory (names of text files are in CAPITAL letters). The ''plugins'' system should allow independent developers to develop the Finite Elements of their choice, whilst the mainline should be able to handle the execution. 
Basically, the plugins will need to return to the main program the ''element stiffness matrix'' and the ''element stress matrix'' with some additional information to enable determination of the location vector for each element by the main program.
=== LateX of the Book ===
Download command:
<pre>
bzr branch lp:~algis.kabaila/easmy/trunk/
</pre>
Currently that holds the file in pdf format of the full text and a few LateX files (with ''.tex'' extensions. It is a work in progress state as the number of ''tex'' files is actually much more extensive.  However, before uploading, it is desired to try to weed out any files that may change soon, particularly diagrams with ''.jpg'' extension.

<nowiki>[[easmy | return to easmy.]]</nowiki>
