{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Proposed Projects, Related to Easmy ==

The purpose of this part is to describe projects arising from easmy or projects that would benefit easmy. 
=== Projects that would benefit easmy ===
==== Sparse Matrix Package ====
Python's dictionaries are the place to start. If you have a quick look at the stiffness matrices of structures that are larger than trivial, you will see just how sparse these matrices are!  So a sparse matrix package with an iterative solution of simultaneous linear equations would extend the capabilities of Python programs for structural analysis.
==== Plugins for various types of elements ====
All elements, plane stress, plate bending and shell elements as plugins can be programmed independently of the mainline, so ideal setup is plugins.
==== GUI for easmy ====
A Qt 4.x based GUI is urgently needed, so that the program would be more easily ported to platforms other than the development platform.  The development
platform is Linux.
==== Plotting of Member Connectivity Diagram ====
In data preparation mistakes in tables of member connectivity do happen and are very hard to spot. It takes a few minutes of visual scrutiny to discover mistakes that would cause totally wrong answers.  The data bugs in connectivity tables are very hard to find - ''trust me, been there, done that!''

==== Investigation of a Simple Python based plugins system ====
How are plugins implemented in Bazaar? For me it looks really good and worthy of separate investigation and assessment.

=== Independent Projects ===
==== Python3 Based Analysis ====
Why not write a few programs with Python3?  Say, take the biggest work of easmy - the text book - convert it to Python3 and see what can be achieved.  Check first NumPy or Numeric with Linear Algebra have been (or something equivalent) have been ported to Python3.

==== Stability Analysis of 2D and 3D Frames ====
This would not benefit easmy, but follows as a natural continuation of analytical investigation.

return to <nowiki>[[easmy]]</nowiki>
