{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

An easy way of defining system wide locale settings for date and numeric formats, measurement and monetary units etc. should be provided both during installation and afterwards.

=== Rationale ===

In its current state the installation procedure of Ubuntu asks user for system language, keyboard and timezone settings, but offers no way of configuring other local settings more specifically. Additionally, no easy way of configuring these settings after installation is available. 

=== Use cases ===

** Jalmari lives in Finland and therefore he wants use his new Ubuntu machine with Finnish date formats, measurement units etc. At the same time he is accustomed in using English as the language of the operating system and the programs he uses. During installation he chooses English as the system language and Finnish settings for other regional settings.

** Juan moves to the USA from Spain for a year to study there. During his time there he also wants to get familiar with the measurement units used in the States, and so he wants to use his Ubuntu laptop with American units as default. After moving to the States he changes the regional settings to correspond with the ones used in the USA while preserving Spanish as the system language.

=== Authors ===

Timo Repo

Pekka Salmela
