{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/products/easyubuntu/+spec/eu-easy-install
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===
Currently, installing EasyUbuntu is very confusing for the user. Users don't know how to open a terminal. Users also want a menu icon.
=== Rationale ===
EasyUbuntu needs to have a package, so that anyone can download it and install EasyUbuntu in a few clicks,and also be able to launch EasyUbuntu from a icon.
=== Use cases ===
* Jim doesn't want to open a terminal just to install EasyUbuntu. He uses the GUI all the time.
<<BR>>* Joe wants to have multiple people administrate a computer and also run EasyUbuntu.
=== Scope ===

=== Design ===
There will be one package containing everything. There will be two programs installed in /usr/bin:
* /usr/bin/easyubuntu-gnome - For running EasyUbuntu in GNOME
<<BR>>* /usr/bin/easyubuntu-kde - For running EasyUbuntu in KDE
<<BR>>There will be two menu .desktop files for GNOME and KDE that shows only in GNOME and KDE respectively, and runs the right program.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
