{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/easy-networking
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Making home networking easier for Ubuntu users.

=== Rationale ===
At present simple networking, i.e. sharing a folder or a printer, involves editing config files. Usually, it would seem, this is simply removing the comment from the "security = user" line in the samba config file. As for sharing printers, that seems to be more complex still, requiring numerous commands to be run and these often seem to fail (see how many posts there are about this in the forums!).

At present when you first right click a folder and select share, Edgy will ask you if you want to install Samba, this is good. However, it should also ask you which workgroup you want to join and a few other questins so that it can set "security = user" for you itself.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
