{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

''' THIS PAGE IS A WIP PROPOSAL, NOT AN ESTABLISHED POLICY'''

This document describes the policy for updating the ec2-instance-connect package to new upstream versions in a stable, supported distro (including LTS releases).  This is an exception to the standard SRU process.

ec2-instance-connect is provided by Amazon for installation within guests that run on Amazon Web Services Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).  The package consists of scripts to deploy SSH keys to enable logging in to EC2 instances.

Cloud platforms evolve at a rate that can't be handled in six-month increments, and they will often develop features that they would like to be available to customers who don't want to upgrade from earlier Ubuntu releases.  As such, updating ec2-instance-connect releases is required within all Ubuntu releases, so they continue to function properly in their environment.

New versions of ec2-instance-connect can be SRU'd in to older releases provided the following process is followed.

=== QA Process ===

When a new version of ec2-instance-connect is uploaded to -proposed, the following will be done:

* an image based on -proposed will be built for EC2 and published as a test image
* the CPC team will write new automated tests to cover new testable functionality (if any) in the new package
* the automated testing that the CPC team normally runs against EC2 images before they are published will be run against the -proposed image

If all the testing indicates that the image containing the new package is acceptable, verification will be considered to be done and the the package can be released from -proposed.

=== Requesting the SRU ===

The SRU should be done with a single process bug for this stable release exception, instead of individual bug reports for individual bug fixes. However, individual bugs may be referenced in the from the changelog but each of those bugs will need to independently verified and commented on for the SRU to be considered complete.

=== SRU Template ===
<pre>
=== Begin SRU Template ===
[Impact]
This release contains both bug-fixes and new features and we would like to
make sure all of our supported customers have access to these improvements.
The notable ones are:

** <TODO: list any LP: # included>

See the changelog entry below for a full list of changes and bugs.

[Test Case]
The following development and SRU process was followed:
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ec2-instance-connect-Updates

The Canonical Public Cloud team will execute their testsuite against the agent that is in -proposed.  A successful run will be required before the proposed ec2-instance-connect can be let into -updates.

The CPC team will be in charge of attaching a summary of testing to the bug.  CPC team members will not
mark ‘verification-done’ until this has happened.

=== End SRU Template ===

<TODO: Paste in change log entry>
</pre>
