{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page is outdated.

All Ubuntu Cloud Guest Amazon Machine Images (AMI) are now conveniently listed at:

http://cloud.ubuntu.com/ami/

Support is available from Canonical:

http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services/ubuntu-advantage/cloud

=== Background ===

This AMI is based on 64-bit Ubuntu Server Hardy Heron. The 64 bit version is made to run on the m1.large, m1.xlarge, and c1.xlarge instance sizes.
To get started on EC2 please refer to the <nowiki>[[ https:--help.ubuntu.com-community-EC2StartersGuide |Ubuntu EC2 getting started guide]]</nowiki>.

A mailing list has been setup so you can interact with other Ubuntu EC2 users. To sign up please go to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ec2 |mailman interface.]]</nowiki>

A list of known bugs can be found <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-on-ec2 |here.]]</nowiki>

=== Features ===

Features include the following:

* Ubuntu Hardy 2.6.24 kernel.
* Ubuntu Hard Server packages.
* Amazon EC2 AMI tools (1.3.34128) installed and patched for Ubuntu.
* On first boot, runs instance user-data script if it starts with #!
* Generate new ssh host keys on first boot and output fingerprints.
* libc6-xen installed.
* Root password enabled.
* Auto-detects the Canonical mirror based on the zone that you are running on.
* Rightscale support.
* Landscape support.
* Root password disabled by default (users must use the ubuntu user to login).
* 10GB root (/) partition.

=== Changelog ===

* '''April 04, 2009''' - ubuntu-hardy-20090422-amd64.manifest.xml
*** US - ami-2959be40  EU - ami-3ac0e84e
*** Initial release.
