{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Edoardo Canepa, apply for the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-uploaders|Ubuntu Kernel Uploaders]]</nowiki> team
membership, to get upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| '''Edoardo Canepa'''
|-
| Launchpad Page
| '''https://launchpad.net/~ecanepa'''
|-
| Wiki Page
| '''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ecanepa'''
|}

== Who I am ==

My name is Edoardo Canepa, and I have been a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team
since February 2025. I help maintain a variety of Ubuntu kernels and related packages in accordance with our Stable Release Updates Cycle. I've received a master degree in Automation Engineering from University of Pisa in 2010 and worked as an embedded engineer ever since

=== My Ubuntu story ===

I was the maintainer for an unofficial Debian real time kernel based on RTAI ipipe patchset for the Automation Engineering department of Pisa University and started to experiment with Dapper Drake to assemble a live-cd students could use to try and implement x86 based real-time systems in a Scilab/Scicos environment. Since then I've always used Ubuntu as my main operating system to support both my professional work as an embedded engineer and my hobby as a computer emulators developer.

=== My involvement ===

I have been involved in the SRU (Stable Release Updates) process of releasing various Ubuntu kernel packages. 

=== Activity ===

https://bugs.launchpad.net/~ecanepa

https://kernel.ubuntu.com/forgejo/ecanepa

=== Sponsoring ===

==== Summary ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;"> '''Sponsor'''
| '''# Packages'''
|-
| Mehmet Basaran
| 32
|-
| Stefan Bader
| 16
|-
| Thibault Ferrante
| 4
|-
| Philip Cox
| 4
|-
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| 4
|-
| Manuel Diewald
| 3
|-
| Total
| 63
|}

==== Details ====
Some of my packages are ESM kernels and therefore not in the list belows.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #dd4814; text-align: center; color: white;">  Date
| Sponsor
| Sponsoree
| Package
| Version
| Distribution
|-
| 2025-03-25 14:03
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-58.60.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-25 14:44
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-58.60.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-25 14:44
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-58.60.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-25 14:44
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-58.60.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-03-26 07:40
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-58.60.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-26 09:05
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-58.60.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-26 09:05
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-58.60.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-03-26 09:05
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-58.60.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-03 16:10
| Thibault Ferrante
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1087.96~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-03 16:42
| Thibault Ferrante
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1087.96~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-03 16:42
| Thibault Ferrante
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1087.96~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-03 16:43
| Thibault Ferrante
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1087.96~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-22 09:50
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-60.63.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-04-22 10:33
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-60.63.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-04-22 10:33
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-60.63.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-04-22 10:33
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-60.63.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-04-23 09:46
| Manuel Diewald
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1088.97~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-23 10:08
| Manuel Diewald
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1088.97~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-23 10:09
| Manuel Diewald
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1088.97~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-04-23 13:54
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-60.63.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-23 15:00
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-60.63.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-23 15:00
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-60.63.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-04-23 15:01
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-60.63.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-02 08:00
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1089.98~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-02 08:25
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0.1089.98~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-02 08:25
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1089.98~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-02 08:26
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-azure-5.15
| 5.15.0-1089.98~20.04.1
| focal
|-
| 2025-05-02 11:02
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1026.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-02 12:52
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1026.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-02 12:53
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1026.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-02 12:53
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-ibm-6.8
| 6.8.0-1026.26~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-23 09:15
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-62.65.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-05-23 09:57
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-62.65.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-05-23 09:57
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-62.65.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-05-23 09:57
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-62.65.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-05-27 07:16
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-62.65.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-27 09:14
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-62.65.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-27 09:14
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-62.65.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-27 09:14
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-62.65.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-28 11:19
| Philip Cox
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1027.28~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-28 13:18
| Philip Cox
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1027.28~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-28 13:21
| Philip Cox
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1027.28~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-05-28 13:26
| Philip Cox
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1027.28~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-19 07:29
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-63.66.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-19 08:07
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-63.66.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-19 08:07
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-63.66.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-19 08:08
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-63.66.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-20 14:23
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-63.66.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-20 15:05
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-63.66.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-20 15:05
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-63.66.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-20 15:05
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-63.66.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 06:33
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1028.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 07:09
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1028.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 07:09
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1028.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-23 07:09
| Magali Lemes do Sacramento
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-oracle-6.8
| 6.8.0-1028.29~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-25 06:36
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-64.67.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-25 07:19
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-64.67.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-25 07:19
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-64.67.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-25 07:19
| Mehmet Basaran
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency
| 6.8.0-64.67.1
| noble
|-
| 2025-06-27 08:37
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-64.67.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-27 09:52
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-meta-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-64.67.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-27 09:52
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-signed-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-64.67.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|-
| 2025-06-27 09:53
| Stefan Bader
| Edoardo Canepa
| linux-restricted-modules-lowlatency-hwe-6.8
| 6.8.0-64.67.1~22.04.1
| jammy
|}

=== Comments ===
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

=== Endorsements ===

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Mehmet Basaran ===
==== General feedback ====

I have been working together with Edoardo since he joined a few months ago. Couple things that immediately caught my attention were how aware and articulate he was. He learned fast. He is organized. He has been a contributing to documentation from day one and managing the move to forgejo. Aside from his official responsibilities, he is always thinking of doing things better/more efficiently and sharing his ideas with us. This way he also makes life easier for the team. This is probably a hidden positive side-effect of working with him.

I have sponsored 32 packages officially. Unofficially, I have also checked quite a bit of his pseudo cranks.

All of his packages they were prepared flawlessly, both official and unofficial.

Yes, he has my full endorsement. With upload rights, he will be able to work even better and more independently.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=riM6
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Stefan Bader ===
==== General feedback ====

I was one of the people that did interviews with Edoardo. Already then my impression was that he is showing he is detail oriented and careful in his work. And working with him when he started in Canonical did just confirm this. When he asks questions it shows he already did some research and usually has some idea what the answer might be.

16 according to the provided table (not that I could really remember). But at least a reasonable number and I cannot remember any bigger issues. There were some cases I was asking for changes but usually those were on more complex cases and things were resolved promptly and the same issue never happened again.

The most recently sponsored uploads had nothing to complain. Edoardo is ready for upload rights.

I very much trust Edoardo. If there is anything unclear he will always reach out and ask before doing anything that could be wrong.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=2ra7
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Magali Lemes (magalilemes) ===
==== General feedback ====

I have reviewed and sponsored some kernel packages for Edoardo for both SRU and
security cycles.

Apart from the 4 packages listed in the table, I have reviewed 8 other ESM
packages for Edoardo, namely main, meta, signed and LRM for f:aws-5.15 and
b:azure-fips.

All the packages I reviewed were well prepared and I don't recall having asked
for any changes. When he wasn't sure about some minor detail, he asked
questions to ensure his understanding of the process and that his packages were
in good shape before submitting them for review.

I trust him to use his upload rights wisely, so here I endorse his application
for them.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=3xDt
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

=== Thibault Ferrante ===
==== General feedback ====

Interviewed him before he joined, reviewed some of his kernels and collaborate with him on other subjects (such as forgejo integration).

I have reviewed 8 packages prepared by Edoardo.

Good, we had some back and forth about a specific case. Exchanges/discussion were always productive.

I trust him and trust also that he will reach out if there is doubt.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
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=YO2f
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>
