{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Both Feisty Fawn and Gutsy Gibbon installed perfectly. Everything was detected, sound quality was excellent. The only requirement after install was to get the Nvidia 'restricted' drivers. With FF large wide screen monitor (1680x1050 Samsung 215TW) was not recognized and the maximum resolution showing under Preferences was only 1280x1024 which made the picture stretched horizontally. However, this flaw disappeared with GG, and the monitor runs at full resolution after setting it in Preferences.

This is a suprisingly good board for Linux - 100% integration and if you have the memory... 256mb of video! Highly recommended for the builder on a budget. 

The  current setup is: Athlon X2 3600+, 1 Gb of PC5300 DDR2 RAM (Crucial Tech), 80 GB Seagate SATA drive and Asus DVD-ROM.

Note on v.8.04. Installation went uneventful in automatic mode, but of course one needed the restricted driver from Nvidia to go beyond VGA resolution. After the driver was installed, the graphics is nothing short of stunning! It is hard to believe I am using analog connection of an embedded graphics chip, not a dedicated graphics card with DVI output. On the other hand, I see by now that sound on this board leaves much to desire, although it works from the start with included drivers. Good news is that it is easy to make the inexpensive Sound Blaster Audigy SE sound card to work on it (no restricted drivers required) for a dramatic improvement. 

Note on upgrade. Upgraded to Athlon X2 4050e (45W processor) with Scythe Schuriken heatsink, 1 GB of PC6400 DDR2 RAM (A-Data), same SATA HD and SATA DVD-ROM as above. The machine now runs very quiet, as I found that the case fan and heatsink fan are unnecessary.

Note on v.9.04. Installation was fast and flawless in automatic mode. After the initial round of updates the system "suggested" to activate the Nvidia graphics driver v.180, and that was it, no other hardware problems. Too bad this motherboard is currently off the market and can only be found on Ebay.
