{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== WARNING ==
* Post known issues here

== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here 
* There seems to be no way to turn of Launch Feedback in System Settings. I had to manually use kcmshell kcmlaunch, the average user will not figure that out.
* The kmenu side image seems to assume a fixed menu height. My menu is taller and the side image shows an ugly horizontal line in the middle of it. Flavio32

* These are just some initial thoughts after reading the preview page:
** Its great that digikam is going to be included in the default installation, is it possible to disable the digikam and showfoto splash screens as part of kubuntu-default-settings? Its just that:
*** They look completely out of place compared to the rest of the artwork
*** I'm guessing its too late to add artwork that does fit in more
*** My ''personal'' ''experience'' is that because those two apps start in an acceptable amount of time, therefore splash screens aren't needed (other users may have different experiences).
** The new kmenu sidebar detailing is very nice indeed
** The final layout for System Settings looks good, some of the placement decisions made for dapper seemed very odd.
** I'll add more comments when I actually download and test the release candidate, Great work! :-) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/David416|David Miller]]</nowiki>

* My first impressions after watching the screenshots and the review:
** I really like the new K-Menu design, although my favorite color is still blue ;)
** Also the new System Settings categorization is very good, although maybe Network Settings and User Management should be placed under Advanced, in my opinion.
** What I really dislike is the new naming scheme in the K-Menu on KDE 3.5.5. I was using the "Name (Description)" scheme, and it was really nice. Now it has been changed to Name Description, which in English is OK, but in some languages that makes it difficult to understand (for example, in Catalan or Spanish, the result is like if we had "Description Name" in English). It is an option to have it this way, but it should be possible to change it back to "Name (Description)".
** And finally, thanks a lot for all your hard work! :) -- EduardErezaMartínez 
* I have ugraded from dapper via apt and things are looking really good! Some comments.
** Suspend and hibernate work with no fuss (finally!)
** The new boot system works flawlessly for me. I think for a desktop system it is a big improvement. 
** XGL, well AIXGL is working very well (Intel Hardware) with Beryl (which didnt with dapper). Is Beryl going to be included/default install from CD? 
** Not specifically Kubuntu, but the close tab on the new firefox tabs is great also.  
** Improvements I'd like to see
** a low latency kernel option - the standard kernel still pretty ordinary for audio (at least on my hardware)
** out of the box midi playing ability (timidity or fluidsynth?)
** ksysguard available from taskbar right-click menu ala windblows 
** system services manager that works properly (mine does not report running services correctly)
** ntfs-3g included by default (it works good) 
** Thanks to all concerned. I think this is the oNe  -- Lawrie

* My two cents, using the LiveCD Desktop AMD 64 of this RC1 : 
** The checked CD integrity, and it worked without any pb.
** as I mentioned before, the brightness and sound special buttons (activated by "Fn" blue) on the  keyboard of my ASUS A6KmQ007H laptop don't work anymore, although they did work under Edgy Knot3. I'm sorry, but I don't have time at present to do the tests LukaRenko ask me to do. The only thing I can do is tell you that these were working until the beta version, try to look what changes may have caused this.
** with this RC1, all my 4 USB ports didn't work although they were working on Kubuntu Beta and all previous knot1, 2, 3. :-( 
** Since I couldn't plug any USB storage device, I couldn't use the wifi driver and this prevented me from testing my wireless connection.
** Since you've design a "System Settings Tool" for Kubuntu that integrates KDE settings, why don't you integrate them more : the Privacy&Security, the Peripherals, and several other sections are truely missing in the Kubuntu system settings. Same in the Network Settings section of this tool : Desktop Sharing, and Samba configuration are missing. I think it's too bad that these sections are missing, because the simple_everyday_linux_user would expect to have everything needed to configure the system at the same place. Don't do the same mistake as Mandriva does : having multiple tools everywhere whereas everything is already here, in KDE. Just add the sections I mentioned in your "well-organized, well-designed, and nice-looking" Kubuntu System Settings, and it will be perfect (in my opinion ;-) )
** I must say that everything, except the sound (due to older version of ALSA) was working under KubuntuDapper....
** Good luck for the next days before final launch, 'hope all these pb will be solved. You'll find a lspci -v of this laptop <nowiki>[[http://forum.hardware.fr/hardwarefr/MiniPCPortablesPDA/Asus-A6K-MT30-Install-Win-Nux-cours-sujet-17894-4.htm#t392679|here]]</nowiki> :   --Nikoo--2006-10-21

* KDE preferences
** Altough I like the design of the new System Setting, but I don't understand why it had to be redesigned. Okay, since there is no original KDE System Setting in this distribution, it would be nice to integrate all settings in the new one. Beside the options Nikoo mentioned, there are many small settings like disabling the bouncing cursor while loading which simply cannot be found. It would be cool to have as many options as possible (visible) to customize the KDE desktop.
** btw: I would like to see ntfs-3g included by default too -- kevin

* Suspend and hibernate
** Sometimes suspend and hibernate doesn't work. I submit a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support/+bug/64922|bug]]</nowiki> but with no support. -- maverick 2006-10-23

* Almost everything worked perfectly on my old machine (celeron 566/300mb/tnt2). I used apt-get dist-upgrade from Dapper to install RC, and without 'kubuntu-desktop' installed, I only had to manually install upstart. -- AlexPerry2

Edgy 6.10 shows some great chages. i like the new system settings layout and the hiding of confusing directories in /.

* On Clicking Storage Menu on the system Menu Konqueror opens up on the URL "/media" instead of "media:/".
	It would be nice to have my cdrom drives listed when I navigate to media:/ even if they are not mounted.
** This is annoying. I have my windows drives mounted in /mnt folder. I see them in media:/ but not in /media folder :( -- maverick

* Some Documentation in help are still missing

I have noticed the following programs without documentation but there may be more.

ktorrent
digikam
akregator
ksystemlog
System Settings
Skim
Adept Manager

Under control Center Modules, User Account and Display are also missing documentation.
	
* I disliked the lipstik theme in Dapper so I always installed and used the klearlook theme for it looks sharper and better. However the install provides plastik now instead. I despise lipstik but plastik looks even worse and is not as configurable. The two themes are similar but lipstik is definitely better. I suggest going back to lipstik or maybe even consider another theme.

* Many of kde's applications have a tool bar on which you can configure. In dapper I fiddled with some of these settings and set the icon size to large. I was amazed by the change it made. I could see the full detail of the buttons and I was able to easily see the icons and click them with my mouse. This also reminds me of nautilus in ubuntu where they have larger icons for greater accessibility. Icons at the large size (32 by 32) are not big, just comfortable. You should consider using this icon size in a default kubuntu install. 

* In settings, Configure konqueror, Web behaviour there is an option under tabbed browsing to hide the tab bar when only one tab is open. I hardly use tabs when browsing files locally for files usually open in separate windows as opposed to a new tab.  I think the tab bar should be hidden for it only takes up space on your browser and opening a new tab will automatically activate the tab bar anyway.

* Ubuntu lets you know what is going on with your computer. For example in ubuntu when you are running low on disk space a little pop up comes up to tell you so. If you have broken packages ubuntu will let you know so through a pop-up bubble. Kubuntu would be great with these little trinkets. 

* Kubuntu needs a program like gdebi which does not let you install external packages unless their dependencies are satisfied.

* Adept should have an "Add Cdrom" option like Synaptic Package Manager. I find it imposible to install packages from the ubuntu alternate cd on my kubuntu installation. 
 
Edgy is looking great. I look forward to the final release. --blue

* Mostly all good, but I'll point out the few bugs and annoyances I have rather than the good bits :) -- Ltmon   * Suspend and hibernate work much quicker for me, but suspend has become a little flaky (freeze during suspend ~5% of the time)
** Installing the package "kdesvn" breaks KDE!  This is a real problem, as it doesn't just crash itself, but kills the kded.  You don't need to even run the program... just installing it does this because of the broken context menu entries it installs.  See https://launchpad.net/bugs/61494.
** I'm having kmail fail to open the kwallet on occasion and cause the kded to lock up.  The system is rendered unusable until I kill and restart kmail and kded.  I will submit a bug if I can find a reliable way to reproduce this, but right now I can't work out exactly what's happening (EDIT: I couldn't fix this by deleting my kmailrc and restablishing my accounts as well as deleting all kmail password data from kwallet).
