{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 6.10,
codenamed "Edgy Eft". This release includes both installable Desktop
CDs and alternate text-mode installation CDs for several
architectures.

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a fast
and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of excellent
packages installed by default, every other package you can imagine
available with a few clicks, and professional technical support from
Canonical Limited and hundreds of other companies around the world.

Ubuntu 6.10 will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and
servers. Note that the previous stable release (6.06 LTS) is a
long-term support release, and so users requiring a longer support
lifetime may choose to continue using that version rather than upgrade
to or install 6.10.

To Get Ubuntu 6.10
------------------

Download Ubuntu 6.10 here:

  Europe:
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
    http://nl2.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  New Zealand:
    http://nz.releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-releases/6.10/

  Australia:
    http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  France:  
    http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  The Netherlands:
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  Poland:
    http://pl.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  Germany
    http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  United Kingdom and the rest of the world:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

To burn these CD images, you will need 700MB media.

Ubuntu 6.10 media can also be purchased from a number of retailers.
For more information, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/products/GetUbuntu

About Ubuntu 6.10
-----------------

Highlights of this release include:

On the desktop

This version introduces a host of new features, an improved interface
and a wide variety of new applications and desktop tools making Ubuntu
6.10 flexible and user-friendly. Enhancements include:

* Tomboy, an easy-to-use and efficient note-taking tool 

* F-Spot, a photo management tool that enables tagging, photo editing
  and automatic uploading to on-line web management sites such as
  Flickr

* GNOME 2.16, which in addition to new features such as enhanced power
  management, makes the GNOME desktop more secure, faster and more
  stable

* Substantially faster startup and shutdown with eye-catching
  high-resolution graphics

* The latest Firefox web browser, version 2.0, which offers inline spell
  check support in web forms, easy recovery of crashed sessions, built-in
  phishing detectors, enhanced search engine management with built in
  Open``Search support, and better support for previewing and
  subscribing to web feeds

* Proactive security features, preventing many common security
  vulnerabilities even before they are discovered

* Evolution 2.8.0, which brings new features such as vertical message
  panes

On the Server

The Ubuntu server edition builds on the functionality from the
previous release simplifying common Linux server deployment
processes. It also includes a pre-release of the upcoming LTSP-5
(Linux Terminal Server Project). LTSP-5 offers clients a lower TCO
(total cost of ownership), simpler installation and easier maintenance
than typical IT deployments. With all data stored on the server,
administrators have substantially eliminated the cost of updating
individual workstations to ensure their security.

Enhancements to LTSP-5 include: 

* Automatic network configuration with DHCP service for servers with
  two or more network cards attached – available with the alternate CD
  installer

* Language and session selection from the LTSP login manager –
  allowing a user to choose from any of the languages and desktop
  sessions installed on the server

* Support for locally attached devices on thin clients – allowing
  users to access cameras, iPods or USB sticks on the thin client

* Printing support - enabling printing on a local printer from the
  thin client

* Full support for Etherboot

Localization

** Automatic setup of non-Latin input methods

** Menu item translations included in language packs, for faster
    integration of new and updated translations provided through
    Rosetta

** Ongoing translation updates from the Rosetta web service:

      https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/edgy/+translations

Installation and Upgrades

Under the hood

* GCC 4.1

* Glibc 2.4

* Linux 2.6.17

As always, Ubuntu includes the very best of the 100% Free / Libre 
application software world, and each new release incorporates 
countless new features and bug fixes from the global development 
community. More detailed release notes are at

   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyReleaseNotes

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu channel on IRC.FreeNode.net, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our
website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
