{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/edgy-content
* '''Created''':  by HenrikOmma
* '''Contributors''': HenrikOmma
* '''Packages affected''': example-content, content-*

=== Summary ===

Continue the idea of providing some basic content with the distro, but split it into a slim 'example' collection and various other items.

=== Rationale ===

In dapper we introduced a small collection of example content to show the capabilities of the standard applications. There is the potential to do a lot more in terms of integration, translation and different kinds of contributions from community teams.

=== Use cases ===

* Jeff likes Ubuntu, and goes to a lot of trade shows doing demos using the Live CD. When he boots a computer using the Live CD, he finds a set of pictures, text files, etc. in the Documents directory, ready to show off some of the coolest features in Ubuntu.
* Daniel has never used a Linux distribution before, but bought a new system with Ubuntu on it. As he's never used any kind of Linux distribution before, he has no idea what he can do with it. As he discovers how to use the system, he will see a few examples of what kinds of things you can actually do with it.

=== Scope ===

Decide how best to package additional content with the distro.

=== Design ===

Separate out a few pieces of pure example content from other larger items. This reduces the space requirement on the live CD, while allowing us to include even more large content files in universe. Additional content files can then be available on the DVD editions.

New content for Edgy may include extracts from wikipedia, public domain artwork, <nowiki>[[http://oooauthors.org/da/|documentation for individual applications]]</nowiki>, etc.

=== Implementation ===

* create separate packages for different kinds of content: content-examples, content-oooguide, content-artwork
* example-content is included on the Live CD and additional packages can be included on the Live DVDs using LargerLivefs.
* Make separate Kubuntu, Edubuntu and Xubuntu versions of <code>example-content</code> so each distro can add their own branding to the included items.
* Make the <code>example-content</code> package more language neutral so that it does not require translation (mostly images, artwork and sounds). One or two .odt files wiil contain text, but a small amount in multiple languages in the same file (these are just sample items).
* Larger text-rich items, such as the Ubuntu book and OOo guides, should be available in translated packages named <code>content-item-xx</code>, where <code>xx</code> is a language code.

=== Ideas ===

* Include the "Getting Started Guide" for Open``Office.org, perhaps as a separate download (e.g. content-oooguide). The <nowiki>[[http://oooauthors.org/en/authors/userguide2/|OOoAuthors]]</nowiki> team has written a high-quality guide. Formats include PDF and Open``Document.
** It would be helpful if we could translate these in Rosetta. The <nowiki>[[http://open.comsultia.com/docbook2odf/|docbook2odf]]</nowiki> utility might help.

=== Outstanding issues ===

----
CategorySpec
