{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Update your system ==
For a successful upgrade from version 6.10 to 7.04 you need the latest version of update-manager from edgy-updates (0.45.2). On a default system you can click on "System/Administration/Update Manager". Then click on "Check" and see if there are new updates and install them if there are any. Then restart update-manager. 

If you only want to update the update-manager package, open System/Administration/Synaptic Package Manager and click on "Search", then type "update-manager". Verify in the "Latest Version" column that 0.45.2 is available and install it. If it is not available click on "Reload". If it is still not available after a reload, open Settings/Repositories and make sure that the "Internet Updates/Recommended updates" checkbox is checked. After a reload the update package will be available.

=== Checking the version of update-manager via a shell ===
If you wish to check which version of update-manager is currently installed on your system through a terminal (command-line), you should type:
<pre>
dpkg -l update-manager
</pre>

The output you receive should look like this if you have the correct version installed:
<pre>
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Installed/Config-files/Unpacked/Failed-config/Half-installed
|/ Err?=(none)/Hold/Reinst-required/X=both-problems (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
ii  update-manager 0.45.2         GNOME application that manages apt updates
</pre>

Note that the 'Version' column displays `0.45.2`.
