{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

Kubuntu 6.10 - Taking You To The Edge

October 26 2006 - Kubuntu 6.10, the KDE distribution from the Ubuntu family, has been released and is available for download now.

Kubuntu 6.10 brings a bit of edgyness to this release, including a new and improved desktop, artwork, applications and much more. The goal for Kubuntu 6.10 is to create a secure and stable environment featuring some of today's leading applications and technology in order to be the foundation for future releases of Kubuntu. The development team is very happy to bring you this new release, we hope you enjoy your Kubuntu 6.10 system.

Kubuntu 6.10 will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and
servers. Note that the previous stable release (6.06 LTS) is a
long-term support release, and so users requiring a longer support
lifetime may choose to continue using that version rather than upgrade
to or install 6.10.

To download Kubuntu 6.10, go to: 

http://www.kubuntu.org/download.php

New in Kubuntu 6.10
-------------------

* K Desktop Environment 3.5.5: Kubuntu 6.10 is the first distribution to include this new KDE release.

* Digikam: now included by default this advanced digital photo management application provides you with the tools necessary to view, manage, edit, enhance, organise, tag and share photographs.

* Power Management: Kubuntu received a new power management applet which uses HAL to ensure reliable hibernation and long battery life.

* Hardware Database Client: profile your system from a basic set of questions and upload the details to the Ubuntu Hardware Database, making it easier to report bugs and allowing the developers to better understand the hardware requirements.

* Laptop Buttons: whether it is controlling your volume, your multimedia applications or your email and Internet access, Kubuntu now supports most laptop buttons without setup.

* Zeroconf and print sharing: let you browse the local network for available services.

* Accessibility Profiles: Kubuntu now offers users the ability to use a preconfigured accessibility profile depending on the type of disability right from the initial point of setup.  Press F5 at the CD boot screen to choose a profile.

* Free Software for Windows: you also have some popular Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) available to install on your Microsoft Windows operating system to preview great Kubuntu applications and ease the path to freedom.

Under the Hood
--------------

GCC 4.1
Glibc 2.4
Linux 2.6.17
LTSP 5 available for thin clients

Upgrading from Kubuntu 6.06 LTS
-------------------------------

* In Konqueror go to /etc/apt, right click on sources.list and choose Actions -> Edit as Root
* Change all instances of dapper to edgy
* Launch a console with K-Menu -> System -> Konsole
* In the console run: sudo apt-get update
* In the console run: sudo apt-get dist-upgrade and follow the prompts to upgrade
* In the console run: sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop python-qt3 python-kde3 ubuntu-minimal and follow the prompts to install
* Reboot your computer

If you have a Kubuntu 6.10 CD, put it in the drive, and run apt-cdrom from the command line. Then follow the instructions above.  

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

We welcome feedback and help with making the next version of Kubuntu.

Comments can be left on 
 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyReleaseComments

Any known problems can be found at 
 https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuEdgyKnownProblems

For support and/or bug issues, report them on Launchpad: 

Bugs - http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs
Support - https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+tickets

If you have questions, please try asking on one of the following: 

IRC - Server irc.ubuntu.com, Channel #kubuntu
Kubuntu Users Mailing List - http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users
Kubuntu Forums - http://www.kubuntuforums.net

Visit https://www.kubuntu.org/HelpingKubuntu if you are interested in helping the Kubuntu team.

Contact
-------

For more information about Kubuntu, visit our website at http://www.kubuntu.org

Press contact:

Jonathan Riddell <jriddell@ubuntu.com> +44 (0)7941 938912 (Scotland)
</pre>
