{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/edgy-openoffice.org
* '''Created''':  by MatthiasKlose
* '''Contributors''': MatthiasKlose
* '''Packages affected''': openoffice.org*, ia32-*

=== Summary ===

It's terse, ideas from bug reports, must be refined to sub specs at the meeting:

* Build OOo on amd64 natively (currently no Java), then demote ia32-* to universe.
** Unlikely, see http://www.openoffice.org/issues/buglist.cgi?Submit+query=Submit+query&issue_status=UNCONFIRMED&issue_status=NEW&issue_status=STARTED&issue_status=REOPENED&short_desc=64bit%3A&short_desc_type=substring, this list may not be complete.
* Better rosetta integration (more current translations, import and export of language data). See https://launchpad.net/products/rosetta/+spec/rosetta-oo-import-export
* Target 2.0.3/4 for Edgy.
* Build support for language packs. The current infrastructure of copying the OOo source to be able to build language packs and help packs separately, is time consuming and adds a duplicate source package to the archive. Investigate the possibility to package the needed parts of the build environment in a deb package so that the language packs and help can be built using this new package and a GSI file exported from rosetta. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OpenOfficeLangPacks
* enable multimedia formats for Impress; JMF porting, replacement by gstreamer?
* enable native gnome/kde print dialogs. there exists a patch to unconditionally add a gnome print dialog, so that gnome libraries would even required for xfce/KDE.
* build on amd64 using gcj (currently FTBFS)
* use more gnome defaults from "personal preferences"
* Allow using OOo to use (reading, but as well writing) the aspell dictionaries used by Gnome and KDE (may be an extensive change).
* Fix/enable Gnome/GTK icon themes.

Keep 2.0.3 buildable on dapper, so that an update of 2.0.3 in dapper could be considered. should be done via dapper-proposed-updates, as about 3-6 packages need updates (including extension if ia32-* packages).

=== Rationale ===

* ia32-* support and usability pain.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

* could edgy ship with the OOo components disabled on amd64 in favour of a native amd64 build?

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
