{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/edgy-toolchain-roadmap
* '''Created''':  by MatthiasKlose
* '''Contributors''': MatthiasKlose, JeffBailey
* '''Packages affected''': gcc*, gcj*, glibc, binutils

=== Summary ===

* Name the versions of affected packages targeted for edgy.
* Multiarch integration not a hard goal for edgy, may be postponed for edgy+1.
* Updates for the biarch setup.
* Drop obsolete compiler packages

Other toolchain-related specs are GccSsp and JavaRoadmap.

=== Rationale ===

Edgy has a short release cycle, so we will use edgy as a testbed for one major change (stack protection), but keep the rest of the toolchain rather un-edgy and use the time to prepare a solid work for edgy+1 (EdgyPlusOneToolchainRoadmap).

=== Implementation ===

==== Required items ====

* NPTL is enabled and the default in glibc-2.4, linuxthreads not enabled anymore
** all release architectures and ia64 supported
* upstream tools
** glibc-2.4, in edgy.
** binutils-2.17, needs testing and packaging, not yet available in unstable.
** gcc-4.1.1, gcc-4.1.2 likely after edgy freeze; follow the 4.1 branch to some point, then apply patches for wrong-code/ice-on-valid failures.

==== Optional/time available items ====

* multiarch/biarch related changes
** no multiarch changes explicitely targeted for edgy, see if glibc, gcc, binutils can be changed to transparently install in multiarch locations.
** biarch -m32/-m64 changes (See as well outstanding issues / discussion below)
*** on sparc, build a sparc64-linux (host) to sparc-linux/sparc64-linux compiler (target) defaulting to sparc-linux by default (requested by the sparc port).
*** for i386, build a non-biarch compiler, plus a i386->amd64 cross compiler, which still can be called using gcc -m64.
** provide <triplet>-<tool> wrappers for the biarch compilers.

* Demoting compilers to universe, which are not necessarily needed for main
** gcc-3.3 based compilers
** gcc-4.0 based compilers (although g++-4.0 may be needeed for regressions found in g++-4.1)

=== Outstanding issues ===

* NPTL on hppa: certainly broken, hppa is a community arch, no explicit action is taken; maybe same situation with db4.3 on hppa dapper.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
