{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the Beta Release of Ubuntu 6.10 -
codenamed "Edgy Eft". 

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a fast
and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of excellent
packages installed by default, every other package you can imagine
available from the network, and professional technical support from
Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies around the world.

Ubuntu 6.10 will be supported for 18 months on both the desktop and
on the server.

To Get Ubuntu 6.10 Beta
-----------------------

Download Ubuntu 6.10 Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  United States:
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  Europe:
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/                  (Netherlands)
    http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/6.10/         (Germany)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/6.10/         (Italy)

  Asia:
    http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
  
  United Kingdom:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

  Rest of the World:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 6.06 LTS to Ubuntu 6.10 Beta, follow these
instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdgyUpgrades

The final version of Ubuntu 6.10 is expected to be released in
October.

About Ubuntu 6.10 Beta
----------------------

The full release notes can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyEft/Beta

Highlights include:

 On the Desktop

** GNOME 2.16

** OpenOffice.org 2.0.4 RC 2

** X.org 7.1

 On the Server

** Task selection for easier installation of mail servers, web
    servers, etc.

** A prerelease of the upcoming LTSP 5.0 with support for local devices, 
    printers on thin clients as well as language and session selection from 
    the LTSP login manager, network swapping, etherboot support out of the
    box and many more additions and improvements like network swap support 
    that reduce the minimal requirements for thin clients to 32MB memory.

 "Under the hood"

** GCC 4.1.1

** glibc 2.4

** Linux 2.6.17

** New init system.

As always, Ubuntu includes the very best of the 100% Free / Libre
application software world, and each new release incorporates
countless new features and bug fixes from the global development
community.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn
this Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report bugs
through the Launchpad bug tracker:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
are not sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode,
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
