{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===
This page lists some known issues that a large group of users might encounter while installing or using Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy). It does not try to be complete (we have the launchpad bug database for that), but focus on high-profile bugs on commonly used hardware. There is a link to the full report in launchpad and when applicable, a link to a workaround or fix. This serves as a complement to the official release notes (EdgyReleaseNotes).

=== Installation ===
* Safe Graphics Mode
** Problem: Safe Graphics Mode does not use vesa driver. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/59618|Bug #59618]]</nowiki>
** Description: Choosing this mode does not help at all.
** Workaround: Manually change xorg.conf (see <nowiki>[[EdgyKnownIssues/59618]]</nowiki>)
=== Motherboards ===
* nForce 430 on Dell Dimension E521
** Problem: USB internal hub not responding. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/67734|Bug #67734]]</nowiki>
** Description: Mouse and keyboards freeze after a few minutes
** Workaround: Use an external USB hub.
=== Video cards ===
* ATI Radeon 9200-9800 AGP cards
** Problem: DRI crashes when AGP speed is 8x. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/67487|Bug #67487]]</nowiki>
** Description: Machine locks up hard when X starts.
** Workaround: Set AGP speed to 4x instead of 8x in BIOS settings (or set it to 8x in xorg.conf, see <code>man radeon</code>)
* ATI Radeon X300/X600/X800 PCI-E
** Problem: The correct driver is not detected. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/28925|Bug #28925]]</nowiki>
** Description: The X server fails to start.
** Workaround: Specify "radeon" driver instead of "ati" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf (see <nowiki>[[EdgyKnownIssues/28925]]</nowiki>)
* ATI Radeon X700 PCI-E
** Problem: Does not activate laptop LCD screen. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/22985|Bug #22985]]</nowiki>
** Description: The screen goes black screen when X starts.
** Workaround: Add a Monitor``Layout option in xorg.conf (see <nowiki>[[EdgyKnownIssues/22985]]</nowiki>)
* ATI cards using the proprietary ''fglrx'' driver
** Problem: fglrx kernel module is not loaded. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/57716|Bug #57716]]</nowiki>
** Description: 3D acceleration does not work.
** Workaround: Enable fglrx in /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common
* Intel GMA 950
** Problem: Video resolutions are not correctly detected and max out at 1024x768. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63551|Bug #63551]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: Use "915resolution" application to fix resolution
* S3 Savage
** Problem: System hangs when using 3D applications. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/37218|Bug #37218]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: Add ''Option "Dma``Type" "None"'' to /etc/X11/xorg.conf
* 3dfx Voodoo
** Problem: X fails to start, or crashes. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63796|Bug #63796]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/68291|Bug #68291]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: Specify "vesa" driver instead of "tdfx" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf
* Multiple Matrox Cards
** Problem: `mga' driver fails to load <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/58721|Bug #58721]]</nowiki>
** Workaround 1 (simple) : Specify "vesa" driver instead of "mga" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf
    This gives you 800x600 max. resolution.
** Workaround 2 (difficult) :
     1- Download the Debian testing xserver-xorg-video-mga package for your platform
        here http://packages.debian.org/testing/x11/xserver-xorg-video-mga
     2- Force the installation of this package on your system (example for i386 platform)
        $ sudo dpkg -i --force overwrite xserver-xorg-video-mga_1.4.2.dfsg.1-1_i386.deb

     This will let you use the max. resolution (as it was before the problem happen).
     Please note that this workaround let the system will unresolved dependencies ...        

=== Wifi cards ===
* RT61-based cards do not work properly. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/58117|Bug #58117]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: See bug <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/58117/comments/11|comment 11]]</nowiki>
* BCM4311-based cards does not work. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/57355|Bug #57355]]</nowiki>
* Some Orinoco-based cards (particularly miniPCI-based cards found in some laptops) don't work with the prism2_pci card and require that driver to be blacklisted: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63989|Bug #63989]]</nowiki>
* IPW3945 makes CPU soft lockup during boot. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63418|Bug #63418]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: Make sure killswitch is off (wifi on) at boot
* No WPA-support out of the box for many cards.
** Look at the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WPAHowTo|WPA HowTo Doc]]</nowiki>
* Relevant forum threads:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=281660|Please list your WIFI cards that worked in Dapper but don't work in Edgy]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283442|Edgy Wifi working cards without issues]]</nowiki>

=== Sound cards ===
* Intel ICH7 and ICH6
** Problem: Default settings for sound recording (capture) are wrong. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/66714|Bug #66714]]</nowiki>
** Description: No sound recorded from external microphone
** Workaround: disable Capture1 and Capture2 in Volume Control

=== Printers ===
* Canon Pixma iP4200
** also applies to [not tested]: 
** Canon: 550i, 850i, 950i, iP90, 560i, 860i, 960i, iP3100, iP4100, iP8600, iP1000, iP1500, iP2200, iP6600D, iP7500, MP500
** Epson: LP-9800C, LP-9500C, LP-9200C, LP-9000C, LP-8800C, LP-8500C, LP-8300C, LP-8200C, LP-8000C, LP-3000C
** Problem: The printer isn't recognized and the driver from Canon doesn't work with Edgy <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/34599|Bug #34599]]</nowiki>
** Description: gutenprint 5.1.0 with iP4200 support isn't released yet, and the driver from Canon are in rpm format with a lot of dependencies problems
** Workaround (32-bit only): Get packages from <nowiki>[[http://mambo.kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~takushi/|Takushi]]</nowiki>

=== Digital Cameras ===
* PTP Digital Cameras
** Problem: Many digital cameras that use PTP don't work. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/67532|Bug #67532]]</nowiki>
** Description: The camera is detected, however, when trying to import photos an error is displayed.
** Workaround (quick and dirty): Run gthumb as root (sudo).
** Workaround: See https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/libgphoto2/+bug/6602/comments/37

=== Fonts ===
* Problem: Some applications, such as firefox, gedit, and terminal windows may have suboptimal fonts.  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/63403|Bug #63403]]</nowiki>
* Workaround: Remove or replace your ~/.fonts.conf file

=== Applications (Main) ===
* network-admin (System->Networking)
** Problem: Does not scan for wireless networks. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/59159|Bug #59159]]</nowiki>
** Description: The drop-down list with available wireless ESSIDs is empty
** Workaround: Enter ESSID manually, search with "iwlist scan"
* gnome-power-manager:
** Problem: pcc_acpi module not performing correctly with Panasonic R4 laptop. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/62620|Bug #62620]]</nowiki>
** Description: No screen brightness change possible, no acpi battery sensing, no hotkey support, poor battery management. 
** Workaround: For suspend to work correctly pcmcia and pcmcia_core must be blacklisted.
* usplash
** On AMD64, only 640x400x16 colour themes will work due to workaround in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/56587|Bug #56587]]</nowiki>, and the default theme is greyscale. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/67545|Bug #67545]]</nowiki>
** On certain PCs Usplash completely disappears and the user only gets a black screen even at the lowest resolutions.
* xorg
** Problem: Backlight comes back on on every ACPI event. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/71368|#71368]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297316&highlight=backlight|forum thread]]</nowiki>
 
 
=== Applications (Universe) ===
* aMule
** Problem: Crashes when closing search Tabs. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/59138|Bug #59138]]</nowiki>
* audacity (and other gtk1 applications)
** Problem: No menu text in the english locale, after updating from Dapper. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/62300|Bug #62300]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: rm ~/.gtkrc-1.2-gnome2 , and make sure xfonts-{100dpi,75dpi,scalable} are installed.
* lirc
** Problem: ir_common module functions interfers with user-defined functions <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/67399|Bug #67399]]</nowiki>

* maxima
** Problem: Does not run on powerpc. maxima-share is not installable. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/37169|Bug #37169]]</nowiki>

=== Applications (Kubuntu) ===
* Kword
** Installing KWord doesn't add a menu item to the Applications menu. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/40501|Bug #40501]]</nowiki>
** Workaround: Make your own launcher button.

=== Third-party applications ===
* The default system shell (`/bin/sh`) changed to `dash` in this release, which may break some incorrectly-written third-party scripts. See DashAsBinSh for a discussion of the issues and what you can do if you encounter problems.

=== Comments ===
''I am dreaming about a little application (that runs both on console or with a GUI) that detects what hardware you have, matches it with a well-known-bug list, and proposes to apply the well-known-workaround for you. It should have the possibility to revert the workaround in case it did not help, or when a real fix has been released.'' --TormodVolden

This page was written with the help of this forum thread: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=280231|Please contribute to Edgy Known Issues]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryArchive
