{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''

== Feedback ==
* Kubuntu 6.10, The Edgy Eft Knot 3, Rocks! Good job team on this release. Awesome work by Ken and the art team, great job to Brandon with Konversation, Sebas and Riddell with the Power Management, and to Tonio, Toma, Raphink, Sime, fabo, and how could I forget Hobbsee, the greatest pointy stick operator in the world! Thanks everyone for making this one great! -- nixternal  * Wow... Its looking amazing now. I love the blueish tinge on the previously purple wallpaper. It makes it subtle, yet distinct. Also, the colour scheme is looking awesome(especially in amarok). I was wondering about the konqueror wallpaper though. Wouldn't it be better if it matched the blueish-purple of the rest of the desktop? Also, how is the progress on porting over the Oxygen Icon Theme? I think Crystal ruins the look of the current desktop :) Haven't tried the Hardware Database yet, will have feedback on it when I do :) Keep up the good work guys! -- AbhinayMukunthan  * I must agree  that the new wallpaper is much better than the previous violet *thing*. I´m wondering if there is a possibility to replace the stoneaged KDE wallpapers like "Essenszeit/Chicken Songs..." with new kubuntu wallpapers? And how about replacing KDE-Classic/KDE-LoColor icons with fresh icons like nuvoX 0.4 ? "kosmonaut"Bernd Müller  * Thinkpad T60p. kdesktop crashes upon start (caused a signal 6 SIGABRT). Can be started from command line afterwards with small errors, but works. Unable to install as the graphical installer stalls (waited 20 minutes) after selecting language. Shutdown problems as well, won't shutdown all the way (need to cut power). Tested in safe-vga mode as well. Same deal. Sorry, I have no idea how to do the fancy sig thingie ;-) the above instructions didn't work, someone please edit.
* The Knot3 is not compatible with wi-fi in a MacBook.
* Oh... forgot to mention in the previous post. I agree that lipstick looks really nice as a theme, but I do think that Polyester would be a much better choice. It looks professional, yet glassy and nice. Its buttons have a nice glow-effect when hovered, and it also integrates a lot better when people install gtk apps(eg. Hovering on any button in firefox's toolbar looks much nicer with polyester, than with lipstick). Also, the power manager still shows me a blank box when I use a desktop. Not sure if this has been fixed in the latest package, but I thought it was worth mentioning. -- AbhinayMukunthan  * Maybe change the default K for the K menu to the Kubuntu Logo? -- Nirvana  *I like the new technology a lot. Upstart and Teardown are great projects, and Ubuntu is definetly becoming THE linux distro. I am really digging the artwork and find it a welcome change from blue or orange (shudder) and Edgy is everything I expected it. After reading the "whats new" I saw why the Edgy name applies. Well worth updating to Edgy when it was Knot 1. Great work everyone. -- Admiral_Chicago * I've been a Kubuntu user since the beginning and Edgy is set to be a great release. Congratulations on the great work, guys. One piece of contention, though. This is just my opinion, but I really dislike the title bar, especially the minimize, maximize, and close buttons (a la windows vista). Since Dapper, the first thing I do when I install Kubuntu is to install kpersonalizer and get rid of that. It's not because it's windowish, it's really because I think it's disproportional. Is this a closed decision? Anyway, go KDE! --anonymous
* * If you mean it looks "Vista-ish" I think you may have the wrong button theme selected in the Window Decorations option. This is mainly because they used those buttons in a prerelease of dapper, before another button set called "Kubuntu" was made for the crystal window decorations theme. The new one should be set to kubuntu's theme by default, but your old settings could be overriding it.
* ** Regarding the "Vista-ish" theme. Hmm, good point, but I was actually looking at the screenshots posted in the release announcement. As I said, this is absolutely just a personal distaste for too big, rectangular buttons (for close, minimize, maximize). If it pleases most people, it should stay that way.
* Installation still fails at grub install on intel macs, and on my macbook pro xorg.conf is not configured correctly on the liveCD and although X does not crash, it is distorted enough that it is impossible to run Ubiquity and install from the LiveCD without manually editing your xorg.conf first. That is a shame since many other things like suspend and hotkey support have greatly improved. 
* I just noticed that in Konqueror when I try to print a page to PDF and I change the filename, I can't just press Enter as would seem intuitive. Is it possible to correct this behavior? Thanks.
* SUSE has a "pause" icon (two vertical bars, like in DVD players) for the "suspend" (hibernate) feature. I notice that the screenshot showing this feature displays no icon. This icon is approprite, IMO. -- Jamadagni 2006-09-21 15:39 UTC+0530
* the usplash has the first half of the word kubuntu on the right side of the screen and the second half on the left. this should be corrected. -- Jamadagni 2006-09-24 10:50
* Just a couple of quick suggestions based on the screenshots:  1. consider using the Tango icon theme, you don't need to patch KDE to use it, it's trivial to write a script to export the theme into a native KDE format.  2. Use more attractive window decoration, I know it's old, but I would suggest Plastik.  3.  I wasn't certain from the screenshots, but if you aren't you should use qt-curve for the style.  4. Use standard icons in Amarok.  Let the end user decide to use the non-standard Amarok icons. Good job everything looks like it's coming together nicely. -- BrianBeck3 [Sun Sep 24 11:21:30 CDT 2006]
* I much prefer the Knot3 colour scheme to the Knot2 colours! Great work guys! There's just one minor thing that bugs me a bit--on the login window, there seems to be a bit too much blank space in the window--could this be changed? -- Haz6  * In Knot3, I still have trouble in the recognition (enumeration to be precise) of hardrives in desktop with multiple harddrives: /dev/hda is recognized as /dev/hde and vice versa. Qparted is not able to access one of the disk -- [Sun Oct 01 23:58:30 UTC+0200 2006] @``SIG@
