{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== THIS IS A DRAFT ==

<pre>

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the Release Candidate for version 6.10
of Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu - codenamed "Edgy Eft".  The Release
Candidate includes installable live Desktop CDs, server images, alternate
text-mode installation CDs and an upgrade wizard for users of the current
stable release.

We consider this release candidate to be complete, stable and suitable
for testing by any user.

The final release of version 6.10 is scheduled for 26 October 2006 and
will be supported for 18 months on both desktops and servers. Note
that the current stable release (6.06 LTS) is a long-term support
release, and so users requiring a longer support lifetime may choose
to continue using that version rather than upgrade to 6.10.

Before installing or upgrading to "Edgy Eft" make sure to read
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyReleaseNotes

Upgrade information for users of Ubuntu and Edubuntu 6.06 LTS 
--------------------------------------------------------------

* NOTE: This procedure upgrades your system over the Internet,
   which requires a large download of several hundred megabytes.

* Because this is the Release Candidate, you need to invoke the
   update manager explicitly.  To do this, press Alt-F2 (or open a
   Terminal using Applications -> Accessories ->Terminal)

      gksudo "update-manager -c -d"

   This step will not be necessary on the final release.

* Make sure you are up to date - click the "Check" button. If you are
   connected to the network, Update Manager should now tell you about
   the 6.10 ("Edgy Eft") release

* Further information about this upgrade procedure is given at
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyUpgrades

Upgrade information for users of Kubuntu 6.06 LTS
-------------------------------------------------

* NOTE: This procedure upgrades your system over the Internet, which
   requires a large download of several hundred megabytes.

* In Konqueror go to /etc/apt, right click on sources.list and choose
   Actions -> Edit as Root

* Change all instances of dapper to edgy

* Launch a console with KMenu -> System -> Konsole

* In the console run: sudo apt-get update

* In the console run: sudo apt-get dist-upgrade and follow the
   prompts to upgrade

* In the console run: sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop python-qt3
   python-kde3 and follow the prompts to install

* Reboot your computer

To Get the Ubuntu 6.10 Release Candidate CD
-------------------------------------------

To perform a new installation or try out 6.10 "live" from CD, download
the Ubuntu 6.10 Release Candidate (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:
    Ubuntu:
      http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
      http://nl2.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
      http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/

    Kubuntu:
      http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
      http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
      http://nl2.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/

    Edubuntu:
      http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/
      http://nl2.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/
      http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/

  Australia:
    Ubuntu:   http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
    Kubuntu:  http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    Edubuntu: http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/

  France:
    Ubuntu:   http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
    Kubuntu:  http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    Edubuntu: http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/

  The Netherlands:
    Ubuntu:   http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
    Kubuntu:  http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    Edubuntu: http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/

  Poland:
    Ubuntu:   http://pl.releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
    Kubuntu:  http://pl.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    Edubuntu: http://pl.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/

  United Kingdom and Rest of World:
    Ubuntu:   http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.10/
    Kubuntu:  http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.10/
    Edubuntu: http://releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.10/

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

About The Release Candidate
---------------------------------------

The purpose of the Release Candidate is to solicit one last round of
testing before the final release.  Here are ways that you can help:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu, Kubuntu or Edubuntu 6.06 to the Release
   Candidate by following the instructions given above.

* Participate in installation testing using the Release Candidate CD
   images, by following the testing and reporting instructions at
   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Current

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu to better meet your future
needs, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn
this release into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report bugs
through the Launchpad Malone bug tracker:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode,
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a
reputation for making things "Just Work" out of the box, a fast and
easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of excellent
packages installed by default, every other package you can imagine
available from the network, and professional technical support from
Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies around the world.

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

Kubuntu is a user friendly operating system based on KDE, the 
K Desktop Environment. With a predictable 6 month release cycle 
and part of the Ubuntu project, Kubuntu is the GNU/Linux distribution 
for everyone.

  http://www.kubuntu.org/

The Edubuntu Linux distribution brings the spirit of Ubuntu to
schools, through its customised school environment.

  http://www.edubuntu.org/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
