{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

Welcome to the Ubuntu Edmond Team!

=== In This Issue ===

=== General Community News ===

=== LoCo News ===

=== This Week's Quiz ===

Thanks to the UbuntuTrivia Team, we had another exciting quiz this week. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Quizmaster'''
| 
|-
| '''Champion'''
| 
|-
| '''Sponsor'''
| 
|-
| '''Prize'''
| 
|}

Upcoming for next week:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Sponsor'''
| 
|-
| '''Prize'''
| 
|}

More info: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuTrivia

To participate in the quiz, join #ubuntu-trivia on irc.freenode.net on Friday and/or Saturday UTC-nights - the topic will usually tell you when the next quiz is scheduled.

For more info on prizes, donating, quizzes and giving quizzes see the above link.

=== Changes In Feisty ===

=== Launchpad News ===

=== In The Press ===

=== Meetings and Events ===

=== Community Spotlight ===

=== Updates and security for 6.06 and 6.10 ===

==== Security Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Updates ====

==== Ubuntu 6.10 Updates ====

=== Bug Stats ===

*** Open (#) +/- # over last week
*** Critical (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unconfirmed (#) +/- # over last week
*** Unassigned (#) +/- # over last week
*** All bugs ever reported (#)  +/- # over last week

As always, the Bug Squad needs more help. If you want to get started, please see [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs

Check out the bug statistics: [WWW] http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/ 

==== Infamous Bugs ====

=== UWN #: A sneak peek ===

=== Archives and RSS Feed ===

You can always find older Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter issues at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter

You can subscribe to the Ubuntu Weekly News via RSS at:
http://fridge.ubuntu.com/uwn/feed

=== Additional Ubuntu News ===

As always you can find more news and announcements at:

 http://www.ubuntu.com/news

and

 http://fridge.ubuntu.com/

=== Conclusion ===

Thank you for reading the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

See you next week!

=== Credits ===

The Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter is brought to you by:

* Your Name Here
* anyone else that contributes
* And many others

=== Feedback ===

This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Marketing Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to ubuntu-marketing@lists.ubuntu.com or by using any of the other methods on the Ubuntu Marketing Team Contact Information Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam). If you'd like to contribute to a future issue of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter, please feel free to edit the appropriate wiki page.
