{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Edubustu (name is certainly open for debate) ==
A live distribution featuring music education tools and music creation tools.

Currently, re-mastering the Ubuntu Live cd is the only method, but that would limit the creation of music to non-realtime, non-prioritized and a clogged RAM. Some thought needs to go into getting memory use down, by either making a temporary or persistent filesystem on a real drive on the system or a thumbdrive. This could be used for either expanding free memory via swap of a tmpfs. Also could be used for saving projects and system specific settings. Most people in developed countries have a DVD drive and could fit the system on a DVD with all tools. However, being targetted to developing countries, a CD version is a must. It also helps in schools with limited supplies and home studios built from spare parts. The desktop environment I suggest is Enlightenment 17. It needs more development tho till it is ready. It is attractive AND is geared towards very low system requirements. This in turn, leaves more for the applications that are the focal point of this distribution. Something of equal merit is XFCE. With the cost of flash thunbdrives lowering, a temporary filesystem would be ideal in terms of making a functioning live system.

=== Specific Packages ===

* Rosegarden
* Hydrogen
* Ardour
* Qjackctl
* Solfege
* Audacity
* Abiword
