{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ideas for discussion (and possible specs) for Edubuntu at UDS Boston ==

These are ideas and issue as I see them.  Some may be simple to solve, misunderstandings, lack documentation, or genuine issues.  However, you can bet if I'm thinking of them, then others in education are as well.  :-)

'''Update''':  I posted an email to Edubuntu Users, K12OSN, and my local state listserv to solicit more input...I'm getting quite a bit.  I will sift through it and post the ideas below and also possibly post some of the emails near the bottom for your perusal.  DavidTrask

=== Programming, code improvements, and enhancements ===

==== Out of the box support for Screen Readers and Text to Speech ====

I have messed and messed around with getting these things to work on both a stand alone desktop and on thin clients.  I have yet to get anything to work with any stability.  This really needs to be ready to go by default and very stable.  I have had some speech work on the standalone system, but things slow way down and then eventually crash.  As for the thin clients, I have had zero success and the client constantly freezes while working with it. Many schools need to support disabilities and these kids are the last ones that need stuff to malfunction.  I know there is stuff in Edubuntu by default, but it doesn't work.  I need to get bugs filed on this and will post them here when I do.  JimKronebusch

==== Default Automatic Removal of Stale NBD Swap files ====

If a client is shutdown improperly, stale nbdswap files can remain in /tmp on the server.  To fix this, in /etc/hosts.allow on the server add the following to the end of the file.

nbdswapd: ALL: keepalive

Save and then reboot the client.

'''This fix was obtained from ScottBalneaves and may have been slated for default inclusion in Gutsy.'''  JimKronebusch

==== Stale processes left over after logout ====

With Edubuntu Feisty processes can be left running after logout such as bonobo-activation server and a few others. MattOquist developed Xterminator as a workaround to this problem.  Either the root cause of left over processes should be figured out, or Xterminator should be included as a default.  The default kill times in Xterminator add up to 8 seconds in the logout/login processes.  I have modified these from 4 seconds to 1 second without any known issues.  This makes the uses of Xterminator virtually unoticed.  JimKronebusch

==== Firefox pixmap caching issue ====
I know this is a hot topic and may be on its way to being fixed

'''These are being worked on heavily in bug https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=296818 and bug https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=395260.  Many fixes/patches have been developed and should no be included in FireFox 3.  Pixmap storage should also be a user accessible setting in about:config allowing fine tuning.  However there is still a more global problem here.  Firefox and pixmaps are one issue that has been tackled very well.  But others are still lurking and more will surface in the future.  Pressure needs to be put on Xorg to develop safety nets and not allow any client application to consume all available resources and crash the X server.  The X server needs some way to set aside a minimal amount of system memory for its own use and not allow any application to use that memory.  It also needs a mechanism to allow the offending application to fail gracefully when such a request occurs.  There are already instances in OpenOffice where the X server will crash as well.  I pushed this issue on the Xorg mailing list and ideas were discussed, but no action taken.  Also ScottBalneaves did port the X_RAMPERC limit to LTSP 5 which I believe should be included in Gutsy and set to 80% or so by default.  This should prevent the new/novice user from frustration in the future due to random client freezes, the application will still crash ungracefully, but this is better than a complete freeze with data loss.''' JimKronebusch

==== TeacherTool inclusion or should it be separate? ====
I have not tried TeacherTool in Edubuntu, but there is a version available

'''no, there isnt, i asked upstream already to contact the MOTU to get it packaged properly but got no reaction, would be a good task for a MOTU wannabe to learn packaging''' OliverGrawert

Used to work very well in K12LTSP

'''I am currently using Robert's TeacherTool in Edubuntu Feisty with great success.  I have a full howto regarding installation at http://www.1-cs.com/setup_teachertool.txt  While I do not have the knowledge to package this, I hope the howto will give proper instruction to someone who does.'''  JimKronebusch

==== Thin-client manager Improvements ====

Session control is flaky

Locking is also not very reliable

'''can you list bugnumbers for such issues ? i have none for either of these issues''' OliverGrawert

'''I have filed bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/tcm/+bug/153919 for Thin Client Manager to describe the problems with a default install.  I do not yet have a Gutsy terminal server so I can not verify these issues have not been fixed for Gutsy.'''  JimKronebusch

Maybe documentation on proper set up is needed...should work well regardless of authentication method

'''i'd rather say we need to improve the default install ;) TCM is a tool where all features should work out of the box, if they don't thats a bug and should be reported so devs get aware of it''' OliverGrawert

I think TCM has the potential to be a great tool. That said, list below suggestions to make it better/more useful. JimKronebusch

'''By default there is no way to remotely shut down all/selected clients.  ScottBalneaves worked on a script that creates a service running locally on the clients to allow remote shutdown (howto available at http://www.1-cs.com/client_shutdown.txt). This service could be installed by default in the client tree and the admin password echoed to the /opt/ltsp/i386/etc/rebootpass upon installation/changes.  Then an option added in TCM to shutdown the client via the right click menu or something.  The option would the echo the shutdown command to the selected client(s).''' JimKronebusch

'''Possible sort options by Username or IP.''' JimKronebusch

'''Search features by username/IP/process.''' JimKronebusch

'''Groups based off IP or Username.  This would allow those with permanent IP assignments to create rooms.''' JimKronebusch

'''User session duration.  It would be very helpful so see next to the Username or something their total session time. We have a lot of problems with users forgetting to logout, and I currently use other methods to see how long a user has been logged in.  A simple "2hrs 31min" or "3days 2hrs 31min" would be very helpful for me to determine whether or not a session is currently active or should be logged off.''' JimKronebusch

'''Option to list all booted clients and show username where active and "Login" or something in place of username in the list.  This would give the ability to remotely use a client, help a new user login either for instruction or guests, see all running clients for mass shutdown, etc.  The option to show all booted clients has great potential.''' JimKronebusch

==== Edubuntu needs to be focused on as a high load server ====

For the desktop CD, yeah, treat it like a desktop.  For the server CD, treat everything like it is going to be on a high load server.  What does this mean?  Eliminate things that are not necessary in a server environment, or choose lower CPU/RAM alternative applications when available.  This is a very broad topic, but I keep running into little things that could be annoying for new users, or are just a waste of CPU/RAM.  For the i386 server CD, use a PAE enabled kernel by default (see inclusion of a server kernel below).  Don't include any apps/applets in the LTSP tree that allow a single user to control global settings, example the Network Manager Applet (Oliver has removed this due to a bug I filed), the gnome-cups-icon (allows all users to start/stop a print queue and consumes 100% processor usage when it runs), nfs-kernel-server needs a default higher than 8 threads, etc.  This isn't a specific complaint, but more a note to keep in mind the server CD shouldn't be a spin of the Desktop CD with LTSP support.  It should be a CD ready to run on major hardware with tons of RAM, multiple processors, crazy RAID configs, many simultaneous users, etc.  So this is just a reminder to keep that mindset when developing.  JimKronebusch

Either a separate GUI, or extra features built into Gnome Network Manager to ease the setup of adapter load balancing.  In any high use server environment the use of adapter load balancing is greatly needed.  Many admins do not either know about load balancing, or do not know how to set it up.  If Adaptive Load Balancing is used there is no need for special switches.  The use of ALB with LTSP will greatly expand how many sessions can run from a single server.  Here is a tutorial on how to set it up http://www.howtoforge.com/network_bonding_ubuntu_6.10 Note that there are two typos, both places where they refer to modeprobe.d are missing an "e". I have used ALB for almost 4 years now and have not had any trouble.  My current LTSP server serves 108 clients and has no trouble handling them.  JimKronebusch

=== Authentication Stuff and User Management Stuff ===

Easier setup for integration with Active Directory, including single home folder location and UID/GID mapping.

Easier UID/GID and home folder management between servers running DHCP failover.

'''"Authentication Stuff" should not stop at easy integration with AD. LDAP and other central authentication servers should also have an easy GUI method for setup.  Authconfig under Fedora works great and could be a good model.  I think I read this is being worked on for Gutsy, again I admit I do not have a Gutsy server yet, so maybe this is already taken care of.  If not it should be a primary focus.''' JimKronebusch

'''''Although...the smbldap-installer does simplify this process for Ubuntu.'''''  DavidTrask

'''''Oh yeah, smbldap-installer makes the server setup excellent, but there still isn't a good tool to easily authenticate clients to the auth servers....this is sort of what I was getting at.''''' Jim Kronebusch

==== Profile management (Sabayon) needs to be standard and easy ====

Better Group Policy-type management. Sabayon is a bit of a kludge in this regard...M$ actually does this quite well (we need to do better)

Ability to set standard panel size, desktop icons, etc (see profile management)

Panel is really small on monitors that display 1280x800, need to be able to set default higher for better visibility

Ability to create a launcher and propagate it to all desktops...or desktops for a group

=== Inclusion of Openoffice extensions system-wide ===

Oxygenoffice and Openoffice provide extensions to bring templates and clipart to the Openoffice user experience.

Could these be included as an easy install option?

Extensions are not system-wide...we need to be able to install these system-wide for all users.  Templates and clipart are staples in the education environment.

<nowiki>[[http://extensions.services.openoffice.org/taxonomy/term/34|Check this page out to learn what I'm talking about]]</nowiki>

=== Marketing and Advocacy ===
Media kit for potential adopters, decision-makers, IT directors, gov't agencies (such as DVD, flyers, and so forth)

Support for conferences...perhaps other companies such as Sun, IBM, etc could pitch in to fund a conference kit

=== Support ===
We need to get a web site/portal in place.

The Edubuntu "beta" site lacks activity.

I think a blog style site would work well, perhaps mixed or linked with a wiki.

Sbalneav's documentation is great (others as well)...I'd like to see a copy on the web site as well.

Wiki is cumbersome...hard to quickly find what you most commonly need.  Links to organized Edubuntu issues could be linked from a page on the portal?

Forums and a "non-geeky" IRC channel or some other means of being able to chat with potential users (this one could be tough as it would need to be "staffed", could any University students be able to help out here?)

=== Other things that defy categorization ===

Inclusion of NSCD.

Inclusion of kernel server on standard edubuntu server installation.  (idea from someone else...unclear as to what is meant...will try to clarify)

'''I believe this is in regard to the default Edubuntu Server kernel being linux-image-generic instead of linux-image-server.  Given that most Edubuntu Server installs are going on server level hardware, I think it frustrating for new/novice users that all their RAM is not detected by default when over 4GB. If the default kernel was the server kernel, then PAE support would be available and all RAM would be detected by default. I have been running 108 clients on dual quad-core hardware with 16GB RAM with excellent stability under the linux-image-server kernel since early August.  With the restriction of space on a CD it is understood that only one kernel can be included by default and the generic kernel is the best all around fit. However I think that it is hoped that in the future the Server editions can have the server kernel by default, and the desktop editions have the generic kernel by default.'''  JimKronebusch

Have USB permissions set correctly on edubuntu LTSP install.

'''For me USB drive access worked out of the box.  I think most user problems with permissions not working are in relation to the use of an LDAP server and not having added all local groups and default user group assignments to the LDAP server.  I have written a howto on LDAP with Ubuntu at http://www.1-cs.com/ubuntu_ldap_howto.txt.  Step 4 describes my methods to be sure all privileges are set properly for LDAP users.  Without this things such as local device support and sound can break.'''  JimKronebusch 

'''''I've found with my own Samba/LDAP installation that sound worked fine, but local devices did not...and this was simply because the users were not part of a "fuse" group.  Once I added a group on the LDAP server with the same UID as the fuse group on the Application servers and added the users to that group...I was fine and local devices now work.  What I'm wondering is if there is a way to (and this is where my ignorance might show) make "everyone" automatically part of the "fuse" group.  Granted we'd have to assume that the sysadmin would want that (I cannot imagine why not)''''' DavidTrask

'''''I handled this by adding all local groups to the LDAP server as explained in step 4 of my howto.  Then I configured Webmin to assign all new users to the same default groups a standalone system would assign them to.  This fixed any possible group problems for new users.  Maybe the Edubuntu Users/Groups module could be enhanced to be able to manage central authentication servers.  Say it could detect that the server was using local files and an LDAP server for authentication on startup, then provide another tab or menu option for LDAP management (or whatever your auth server) then on first access it would ask for management credentials and store them.  Then you could use the same user management module to admin local users/groups as you would to manage LDAP users.  This could be seamless and awesome.  No more external java or web-based apps to manage those accounts.  And it could be set up to assign the same default groups to new users as it would a local system.  Maybe even an option to sync local groups to the LDAP server?  Such a thing would bring Edubuntu light years ahead of other distros.''''' JimKronebusch

Fix issue with San Disk Cruzer USB drives with U3 installed.  '''(this is a hardware issue that seems specific to San Disk drives..affects other distros too...AFAIK) DavidTrask'''

Since RAID is almost a must for servers, incorporate RAID setup in Edubuntu regular installation (now it requires *ubuntu-alternate). '''Not my idea, but I tend to agree with this one as I too use RAID in my school Edubuntu servers''' David Trask

Video broadcasting via LTSP.  '''kinda' vague...I'll solicit clarification''' DavidTrask
