{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting August 15, 2007 ==
This is the Edubuntu Team Meeting, started on 15 August 2007, 20H00 - 22H00.

== Attendance ==

* ogra
* RichEd
* stgraber
* pips1
* toonix
* LaserJock

== Agenda ==
* Technical
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week

* Documentation
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
    
* Art Work
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
    
* Web Sites
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
   
* Community
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
   
* Management & Planning
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
   
* Any other Matters Arising

== Minutes ==
* Technical
** ogra noted that there isn't much more involved than maintaining seeds, building metapackages and ask for iso rebuilds.
** Spec's for Tribe 5:
1. Translated into C: check
2. Eliminated delayed mounter: check.
3. Greeter: check.
4. Selectable lang, session, and host: check.
5. Fixed up some server side things for handling multi-hosts: check.
6. Better password handling: check.
7. i18n: added tonight (ogra: don't know if I did it right).
** ogra noted that ldm finally will be translatable.
** ogra noted that LaserJocks changes are now in the server-addon CD, we still need icons.
** '''ACTION: ''' ogra needs to copy icons as well as the .desktop and .directory files for the seeds.
** '''stgraber noted that he'll have a working version of the reworked TCM by the end of the week.'''
** pips1: what about schooltool, will it be included by default? ogra noted that it won't be right now, but will be included in a later release.
** Update on Willow: ogra noted nothing as we require developers.

* Artwork
** RichEd noted that the first sample of the artwork is viewable at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Volunteer]]</nowiki>. '''ACTION: ''' Team to review and give feedback via the Wiki page.

* Websites
** pips1 noted that there has been no changes.

* Community
** LaserJoock busy with a FLOSScom project that is viewable at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FLOSSCom]]</nowiki>

* Planning
** '''ACTION: ''' RichEd to split Meeting Agenda(hour meeting for edubuntu-devel and an hour for edubuntu-users) and mail to the lists.

== Any Other Business ==
* None reported.

== IRC Logs ==

<pre>
10:05	RichEd	back ...
10:06	RichEd	ogra kicks off with technical
10:06	ogra	well, tribe 4 is out ... it was a heavy baby to raise this time ...
10:06	LaserJock	\o/
10:07	ogra	took me quite some time to make the CDs work at all this time
10:07	ogra	lots and lots of thanks go to LaserJock who took care for the live CDs
10:07	LaserJock	it was fun
10:07	ogra	and was well done :)
10:08	LaserJock	well, it made it anyway
10:08	ogra	i wouldnt have managed tribe 4 without you, kudos, really
10:08	LaserJock	blah
10:08	LaserJock	I just help where I can :-)
10:08	LaserJock	I can't do the real stuff like ogra
10:09	jono	hey pips1
10:09	ogra	LaserJock, there isnt much more involved than maintaining seeds, building metaoackages and ask for iso rebuilds
10:10	ogra	no magic anymore :)
10:10	ogra	anyway, beyond that scott (who went camping with his family today) wroked his ass off to get ldm2 complete before feature freeze
10:11	ogra	i'm working on merging his last changes before tomorrow
10:11	LaserJock	three cheers for Scotty
10:11	ogra	yeah
10:11	ogra	i havent gotten his stuff building yet though
10:11	ogra	will keep me busy tomorrow
10:11	LaserJock	it sounds great though
10:12	ogra	yeah, its all complete
10:12	LaserJock	really what people are needing
10:12	LaserJock	how are the spec doing as we head to Tribe 5?
10:12	ogra	a list of features (c&p from a mail from scott):
10:12	ogra	1) Translated into C: check
10:12	ogra	2) Eliminated delayed mounter: check.
10:12	ogra	3) Greeter: check.
10:12	ogra	4) Selectable lang, session, and host: check.
10:12	ogra	5) Fixed up some server side things for handling multi-hosts: check.
10:12	ogra	6) Better password handling: check.
10:12	ogra	7) i18n: added tonight (don't know if I did it right)
10:12	ogra	sooo
10:13	ogra	ldm finally will be translatable, it has proper error messages now, we support multiple application servers to log in to and its a lot speedier ...
10:13	ogra	oh, and we have autologin and unencrypted X transport ....
10:14	ogra	not perfect yet but looots better than any ldm before
10:14	LaserJock	\o/
10:15	ogra	i merged some other fixes, we now support serial lcd touchpads (in some industrial PCs)
10:16	ogra	oh, he's here ....
10:16	ogra	toonix wrote an article for the german linux magazin about ltsp ...
10:17	ogra	everybody take a bow
10:17	toonix	whoops
10:17	ogra	;)
10:17	LaserJock	toonix: cool
10:18	toonix	Well, I hope it's cool ;)
10:19	LaserJock	well, I don't know german so I can't say it's not anyway ;-)
10:19	ogra	LaserJocks changes are now in the server-addon CD, we still need icons, if you have a spare Gb of bandwith, try it out and do some testing of the UI changes and give feedback to the mailing list or irc
10:20	LaserJock	btw, to test the menu anyway, you don't have to have gutsy
10:21	ogra	feature freeze is tomorrow (as well as upstream version freeze) i havent heard anything from moquist about moodle yet :/
10:21	LaserJock	it should work in any Feisty or Gutsy Ubuntu or Edubuntu machine
10:21	ogra	LaserJock, did you ?
10:21	pips1	toonix: nice nick :-)
10:21	LaserJock	nope
10:21	LaserJock	I'm pretty sure we can get a UVF exception for it
10:21	ogra	i hope so
10:21	ogra	pitti will be on hneymoon
10:21	LaserJock	how hard is feature freeze for the Addon CD
10:21	LaserJock	I was going to try to get a few more apps on
10:22	ogra	as hard as always ...
10:22	pips1	re moodle :-/
10:22	toonix	Normally I call myself Tunix, but this nick is already occupied by someone at FreeNode.
10:22	ogra	no freeze without exceptions ....
10:22	ogra	its just a lot of paperwork
10:22	LaserJock	ogra: but does a new app on the Addon CD count as  a Feature? I'm a bit fuzzy on what counts
10:23	ogra	nah, i dont think you can call that a feature
10:23	pips1	interesting
10:23	ogra	adding a new category for it to teh code might be one
10:23	LaserJock	oh interesting
10:23	ogra	but thats would be small enough to easily get an exception
10:24	LaserJock	no, I don't think categories should change
10:24	LaserJock	I think the ones I wanted were still Science/Math
10:24	LaserJock	I might need to get debian-cd patched to get the icons
10:24	LaserJock	I suppose I should do that ASAP
10:25	ogra	how big is that patch ?
10:25	LaserJock	very small
10:25	LaserJock	just a cp
10:25	ogra	trivial enough ...
10:26	LaserJock	I've already got debian-cd to use the app-install-data-edubuntu .deb
10:26	LaserJock	I just need it to copy icons as well as the .desktop and .directory files
10:26	ogra	oh, remind me to add that to the seeds
10:26	LaserJock	that's only if we use new icons
10:27	LaserJock	if we use existing icons (say from one of the apps) we don't need it
10:28	ogra	well, we still have enough time until final artwork freeze ...
10:28	ogra	(and even then ... its a bugfix)
10:28	LaserJock	mhm
10:28	LaserJock	so I'm pretty set
10:28	LaserJock	I've marked the spec as Beta Available
10:28	LaserJock	I didn't get to dynamic menus :(
10:29	ogra	right, i'll go through the specs on the weekend and set the latest status
10:29	LaserJock	but I think I'll start work on it soon so that it'll be ready to go for Gutsy+1
10:29	ogra	that'd be cool
10:30	ogra	i have a good bunch left from this round but LTSP got new blood at ubuntulive ... :)
10:30	ogra	Francis Giraldeau is caring for clustering solutions etc
10:30	ogra	he did mille-xterm before
10:31	ogra	a solution built around ltsp with clustering for really big setups in universities etc
10:31	ogra	i hope we can offer such a solution inside ltsp with gutsy+1
10:32	pips1	nice one
10:33	ogra	there was also a guy who is very intrested in implementing fat clients for us, i'm still not done writing the basic howto for him to get him started (lack of time) but will do so the next days
10:33	ogra	with the planned authentication server the server team wants to have in gutsy+1 we hopefully will have fat clients then as well
10:34	LaserJock	awesome
10:34	stgraber	main thing would be to have some kind of scp-client working on a fat client, that'd allow easier management of mixed environment with both fat and thin clients
10:34	ogra	stgraber, i'm pondering to switch to italc ....
10:34	pips1	re network-auth for gutsy+1 fingers crossed
10:35	ogra	it would need ltsp5 integration which doesnt exist yet
10:35	stgraber	(btw, hi here :))
10:35	LaserJock	ogra: is italc the gambas one?
10:35	pips1	hey stgraber, you nastly lurker, you!
10:35	ogra	stgraber, italc is what guadalinex uses everywhere ... but its a bit scary security wise ...
10:35	pips1	:-)
10:35	ogra	LaserJock, nope ...
10:35	stgraber	oh, I didn't know of that tool, looks great (as always I only looked at the screenshots :))
10:35	ogra	LaserJock, its in the archive
10:36	LaserJock	openSUSE wants italic (I've been checking out the Edu efforts)
10:36	ogra	and provides pretty much what SCP does ...
10:36	LaserJock	but they also want webmin so ...
10:36	pips1	ogra: I'm surprised about your italc change of mind...
10:36	ogra	it has the advantage of not being bound to a speific setup ...
10:36	ogra	pips1, the code quality didnt get better
10:37	ogra	but teh tour at guadalinex was pretty impressive
10:37	pips1	aha
10:37	pips1	ic
10:37	pips1	i didn't realise they are using it
10:38	ogra	its what the teacher uses to control the classroom
10:38	stgraber	this italc tool seems to be pretty similar as what the school I'm setting up my edubuntu network at are using on Windows (they are using Genevalogic Vision 6 (was Mastereye))
10:39	ogra	thin client manager was always planned as a small tool for single ltsp servers to maintain sessions ...
10:39	pips1	i noticed people asking for the SCP features on the mailing list... dave trask trying to get the VNC stuff to work...
10:39	ogra	currently i dont like the way it goes, it seems to develop bloat ....
10:39	ogra	yeah, after feature freeze i'll concentrate on bugs
10:39	ogra	i'll look what we can do with vnc
10:40	ogra	stgraber started some work on a vnc tool ...
10:40	stgraber	looking at how the Windows tools are working, we'll have some problem with VNC and demo mode
10:40	stgraber	Windows tools are using broadcasting
10:40	stgraber	where we have to use unicast ...
10:41	ogra	and brought me to a simple script that doesnt generate much load to have small screenshots of every screen ...
10:41	ogra	i think i'll switch TCM to this for the preview ...
10:41	stgraber	ogra: btw, I have a little problem with your script :), it freezes the screen while taking the screenshot :)
10:41	ogra	i'm not sure we can get vnc in the client by defaul
10:41	ogra	stgraber, for a millisecond, yes
10:42	ogra	that xwd's fault
10:42	ogra	so manually installing x111vnc might still be necessary
10:42	ogra	*x11
10:43	ogra	i'll look if that can be solved somehow ...
10:44	ogra	ok, i think thats all from my side today ...
10:44	ogra	questions ?
10:44	stgraber	btw, I'll have a working version of my reworked TCM by the end of the week (as it's my deadline for the school I'm testing it at)
10:45	ogra	stgraber, oh, you didnt say you work *on* TCM ... i thought you developed something new ...
10:45	ogra	thats cool
10:45	pips1	ogra: what about schooltool, will it be included by default?
10:45	stgraber	weel, due to the massive UI change I've started at zero and copy/paste some stuff from the current tcm
10:46	stgraber	(proccess management for instance)
10:46	ogra	pips1, oh, thanks for asking
10:46	ogra	no
10:46	ogra	the only schooltool packages we could use need the latest alpha version of zope
10:46	stgraber	(and I use the studentcontrolpanel python thing to access the userlist and all other actions
10:46	stgraber	)
10:47	pips1	ogra: ic
10:47	ogra	which we cant add ...
10:47	ogra	so it will have to wait another release :(
10:47	ogra	stgraber, ah, so its rather a rewrite
10:48	stgraber	yes
10:49	pips1	ogra: oh, btw, what is the state of affairs regarding willow? has that progressed?
10:49	pips1	i mean upstream
10:50	pips1	sorry, this is rather off topic
10:51	LaserJock	pips1: I think Amaranth is gone on to compiz heaven ;-)
10:51	pips1	oh
10:52	ogra_	grr
10:52	ogra_	<ogra> stgraber, ah, so its rather a rewrite
10:52	ogra_	<stgraber> yes
10:52	ogra_	^^^ the last bit i saw
10:52	pips1	<pips1> ogra: oh, btw, what is the state of affairs regarding willow? has that progressed?
10:52	pips1	<pips1> i mean upstream
10:52	pips1	<pips1> sorry, this is rather off topic
10:52	pips1	<LaserJock> pips1: I think Amaranth is gone on to compiz heaven ;-)
10:53	ogra_	pips1, what LaserJock said
10:53	ogra_	pips1, we're clearly lacking developers
10:54	pips1	hmm
10:56	ogra_	baltix ?
10:56	LaserJock	maybe we should let them write it then ;-)
10:57	ogra_	well, target is dapper
10:57	ogra_	and it was created more than a year ago
10:58	ogra_	if someone is intrested in it they are free to take the willowng package
10:58	ogra_	its only missing some pieces actually
10:58	ogra_	but anyway, our hour is up ...
10:59	LaserJock	lots got done and there is lots yet to do! \o/
10:59	ogra_	yeah, heh
10:59	ogra_	and gutsy will rock
11:00	RichEd	Artwork ...
11:00	RichEd	Our volunteer sent me a mail this week ... thanking LaserJock for his help
11:00	RichEd	and a sample 1st effort that you can see here:
11:00	RichEd	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Volunteer
11:01	RichEd	She would like some comments on her first effort.
11:01	ogra	its a great start ...
11:01	LaserJock	oh, that's nifty
11:01	pips1	how do we comment?
11:01	pips1	is she here?
11:01	LaserJock	you can edit the wiki page I imagine
11:01	RichEd	I'm going to try to hook her up with cbx33 for guidance ... she felt a bit bad taking LaserJock's time when he is more of a "coding person"
11:02	RichEd	add comments to the wiki page pips1 ...
11:02	pips1	ok
11:02	ogra	pips1, she's jillc
11:02	RichEd	I hope she will attend one of the next meetings ...
11:02	ogra	(and not here atm)
11:03	LaserJock	RichEd: I don't mind either, but I'm not much of an artist
11:03	RichEd	I like the sample myself ... the quality is certainly decent ... and I think if we put her onto a specific task with a "spec" she would be able to be a help
11:04	LaserJock	we need to make sure it works well as a wallpaper
11:04	RichEd	LaserJock: that's where I think pete will be able to help out with guidance ...
11:04	ogra	yeah needs a bit more abstraction
11:05	LaserJock	ogra: I agree
11:05	RichEd	comments like that would be good for the wiki page, and then I can mail her the link
11:05	ogra	RichEd, well, i dont want her to struggle with procedures, she shall do artwork
11:05	LaserJock	it gets busy when there is a "real" looking desktop
11:05	ogra	for now i'm fine to act as proxy for pics
11:06	RichEd	LaserJock: agreed on the above ... for a default ship wallpaper, "muted" graphics work best to avoid "eye clutter"
11:06	RichEd	but i think that kids would dig the sort of thing she has provided as an optional choice
11:06	ogra	yeah
11:07	LaserJock	I think the key is to get a good number of choices
11:07	LaserJock	not perfection first round
11:07	LaserJock	then she can refine them with feedback
11:07	RichEd	For attempt #1 ... I think a fine effort
11:07	ogra	thats definately a good starter for the kids desktop ...
11:07	RichEd	What default wallpaper will 7.10 ship with ?
11:07	RichEd	ogra ?
11:07	LaserJock	I hate for her to go through all the trouble to get it perfect and then have  use "well, I was really thinking ..."
11:08	ogra	RichEd, abstract, somewhat educational
11:08	ogra	RichEd, apparently everybody loved the edgy wallpaper
11:08	RichEd	do we have a viewable sample ? so that I can show her ?
11:08	ogra	so we should probably try to go that way
11:08	RichEd	of gutsy ?
11:09	RichEd	I'll try to get a page up with all of the defaults we've shipped ... to show her the "abstract" concept (of such a page does not exist)
11:10	RichEd	okay moving on ... to WebSites
11:10	RichEd	pips1: any comments ? news ?
11:11	pips1	well, none, I'm afraid. I've been busy with my day job non-stop
11:12	RichEd	okay :) we understand
11:12	RichEd	and community ?
11:13	RichEd	LaserJock: do you want to mention the fridge story you are putting up ?
11:13	LaserJock	well, check out Fridge
11:13	LaserJock	:-)
11:14	LaserJock	it's an interesting project FOSSCom and Ubuntu Education are doing
11:14	LaserJock	about how formal education might learn from FLOSS
11:14	LaserJock	kinda "hackers turned education research subjects" sound ;-)
11:14	RichEd	that comment is about FLOSSCom ... the project about taking the lessons of Open Source developement collaboration ... and extending into other general education areas
11:15	RichEd	they are hosting a summer university ... and are using Launchpad and the Ubuntu wiki for hosting projects and info
11:15	RichEd	check out the fridge for more ... LaserJock does the story have a link to the ubuntu wiki page ?
11:16	pips1	no, but to launchpad project
11:16	LaserJock	hmm, it does to the list of meeting
11:16	LaserJock	s
11:16	pips1	ah, correct
11:16	LaserJock	but it does to Launchpad and FOSSCom website
11:17	RichEd	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FLOSSCom
11:17	RichEd	...
11:18	RichEd	And finally on the Planning Topic ... I still need to split the meeting agenda's and mail out to the lists
11:18	RichEd	Just a comment to LaserJock regarding our discussion 2 weeks ago ...
11:18	pips1	I think the links in the announcement work well ... I vaguely remember recommending Andreas NOT to link to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FLOSSCom directly, because the information there is a bit overwhelming
11:19	RichEd	tonight used up a full hour for tech ...
11:19	RichEd	(^ pips1 makes sense)
11:19	RichEd	So I think an hour meeting for edubuntu-devel and an hour for edubuntu-users is not unreasonable
11:19	RichEd	---
11:20	LaserJock	RichEd: well, we didn't at all go according to the new scheme either ;-)
11:20	LaserJock	but point taken
11:20	RichEd	Any other topics anyone else wants to raise for tonight ?
11:21	RichEd	ogra: any other points / discussions ?
11:21	ogra	not really ...
11:21	RichEd	going once ...
11:22	LaserJock	nope
11:22	LaserJock	go for it
11:22	RichEd	going twice ...
11:22	RichEd	! BONG !
11:22	ubotu	Sorry, I don't know anything about bong ! - try searching on http://bots.ubuntulinux.nl/factoids.cgi
11:22	RichEd	thanks all
11:22	ogra	thanks :)
11:22	ogra	yay, bed ....
11:22	pips1	LOL about ubuntu
11:23	pips1	LOL about ubotu
11:23	pips1	I meant
11:23	pips1	good night
11:23	RichEd	ubotu does not know want a bong is ... he clearly was not a student ;)
11:23	ogra	night
11:23	RichEd	night all
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
