{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting January 10, 2007 ==
=== Technical ===
* Herd 2 announced this week
** Call for testers
* new sound architecture for LTSP will have volume and microphone support
** licence glitches with new flash support library
* Keep discussion on secnond CD inclusion alive
=== Documentation ===
* prepare SVN checkout for ''edubuntu-docs'' package
* website and wiki need updating
* Edubuntu leaflet created for BETT 2007
=== Community ===
* Edubuntu represented with OFE at BETT 2007
* Education community site starting soon
* Proposed call for new Edubuntu Council member on Mailing List
** Nominations on 31st Jan
** Vote on 7th Feb
* Will van der Leij (willvdl) elected as Edubuntu Member
<pre>
01:04	RichEd	TECHNICAL UPDATE
01:04	ogra	sorry, building herd2 alongside the meeting
01:04	ogra	so most important for tech ...
01:05	ogra	we'll have herd2 this week, PLEASE TEST !!!!
01:05	ogra	the next CD build on http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/daily/ should be ready to test
01:05	ogra	(20070110)
01:06	ogra	apart from that i worked massively on the new sound architecture for ltsp last week, we'll soon have volume control and mic support there
01:06	ogra	there are some licence gliches with thze flash support library we need for backwards compatibility with the old esd architecture ...
01:07	ogra	i'm not yet sure we'll get that sorted ...
01:07	ogra	if we dont, we wont have sound support on systems where admins upgraded the server but not their ltsp install
01:07	willvdl	hmm, flash licences.
01:07	ogra	so that will need mentioning in the docs for feisty
01:07	ogra	its not flash
01:08	ogra	the new flash9 offers a programmer API to attach any kind of sound backend
01:08	willvdl	thought I was confused
01:08	RichEd	ogra: please explain "upgraded the server but not LTSP install" ...
01:08	ogra	but to make it possible to hack on that they introduced an opensourced library ...
01:08	Mithrandir	willvdl: the libflashsupport library uses openssl and lgpl-ed libs which uses gpl-ed libs, and the openssl and GPL licences are incompatibly.
01:08	Mithrandir	s/y.$/e./
01:09	willvdl	thanks
01:09	ogra	RichEd, the ltsp clients have their own linux system *inside* the server
01:09	ogra	you can get away with only upgrading the server and keep the old installation of ltsp in the old state ...
01:09	RichEd	so why would someone update the server only ? any decent reason ?
01:09	rodarvus	ogra, anything you want specifically tested besides that for Herd 2?
01:10	ogra	which usually does no harm unless we change the package selection in ltsp massively
01:11	ogra	rodarvus, in the links sercion of the edubuntu part on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Current are some instructions and links to more
01:11	ogra	*section
01:11	kgoetz	RichEd: not thinking about it would be my excuse ;)
01:11	rodarvus	nice
01:12	RichEd	my issue is : do we worry about a workaround / fix or do we just document what they should be dong themselves.
01:12	RichEd	doing not dong :)
01:12	ogra	edsadmin (piece of the network auth spec) also has license issues ...
01:12	kgoetz	RichEd: you shouldnt force people to upgrade
01:12	ogra	seems feisty will become my bureocracy release, where i have more to do with licenses and main inclusion reports than code :)
01:13	ogra	RichEd, why should i upgrade a server that works fine ...
01:13	rodarvus	ogra, Testing/Current lists 20061025 as current edubuntu. I suppose cdimage.u.c has something newer, right? :)
01:13	ogra	many admins will go with the "never touch a running system" approach
01:14	ogra	rodarvus, yes, Testing/Current will get an overhaul anyway, i just wanted to point to the testing procedure
01:14	RichEd	ogra & kgoetz: but they have upgraded the server ??? so they have made a decision, but only gone 1/2 way thourgh the process ... or is that not a valid thought appraoch
01:14	rodarvus	sure
01:14	ogra	the links have some edubuntu sepcific tests ...
01:14	kgoetz	RichEd: upgrading clients and upgraing servers is two thoughts, not one
01:14	ogra	apart from that the normal ubuntu testing should be done
01:14	kgoetz	and, for that matter, two actions
01:14	ogra	right
01:15	ogra	at some point i want to automate that so update-amanger will upgrade the thin clients as well
01:15	kgoetz	i'd be... 'unhappy' if i got forced to upgrade parts of my ltsp 'because you said'
01:15	ogra	but thats rather something for feisty+2
01:15	RichEd	But the LTSP client resides in the server ... so essentially it is an update of the one box ?
01:15	ogra	or for +1 if we get more manpower ;)
01:16	ogra	RichEd, try to see it as two distinct systems
01:16	kgoetz	RichEd: the packages are on one host yes, where they get installed and how is two seperate processes
01:16	ogra	right
01:16	ogra	a future target is to merge that ...
01:16	kgoetz	we can both have a ~ on a server, we dont mess with each others ~/Desktops though :)
01:16	RichEd	okay ... I am happy to accept that, just want to make sure we are not creating work for ourselves when "a dual upgrade" may be a more natural appraoch.
01:16	RichEd	*approach
01:17	ogra	its just something that we need to document
01:17	ogra	we always forced upgrades of ltsp ... even rebuilds ...
01:17	ogra	but ltsp is now in a state where thats not urgently necessary anymore
01:18	ogra	so people who want to keep the old client setup can do so ...
01:18	ogra	but will loose flash sound ...
01:18	RichEd	I'm just trying to understand if there would be a valid reason / circumstances why someone would want to update the server only.
01:19	ogra	(unless i find that libflashsupport works without libssl support)
01:19	ogra	RichEd, because they forgot about the fact that ltsp needs to be upgraded separately for example ...
01:20	RichEd	ogra: but that is an omission ... not a reason :)
01:20	ogra	anyway, lets not discuss that to death, time is limited
01:20	RichEd	okay
01:20	ogra	just note that we need that documented, i'll care for the technical side
01:20	willvdl	noted
01:21	ogra	beyond that i merged a lot of ltsp fixes from contributors (i reviewed about about 100 patches during the christmas holidays)
01:22	ogra	and had to care for my general ubuntu stuff (gnome-screensaver, gnome-power-manager, package merges)
01:22	ogra	thats it from the tech side
01:22	willvdl	I don't imagine cbx33 has had much time to work on the MOTD/ldm login thingy he showed last time
01:22	ogra	he should rather get up to speed with SCP ;)
01:22	ogra	even ldm/MOTDS is a nice thing i'd rather see that SCP is done by release ;)
01:23	willvdl	Reminder to all, Pete Savage is representing us at BETT at the moment
01:23	RichEd	ogra: w.r.t. rodarvus and his increased bandwidth for education ... can you "sit with him" to see what he can take over naturally to ease your load ?
01:24	rodarvus	ogra, we can do it anytime you want, just arrange the meeting when you're available
01:24	ogra	starting with CD testing, seed management and management of the metapackages would be a big help already ...
01:24	rodarvus	(after herd 2, I suppose)
01:24	ogra	oh, and CD building ...
01:24	ogra	that should suffice for a start ...
01:24	rodarvus	nice
01:25	RichEd	ogra: can you list all of the "sections / components" you look after and mail to rodarvus and myself. i'll need this for the overview page anyway
01:25	ogra	RichEd, ok
01:25	RichEd	thanks
01:26	ogra	rodarvus, i'll be travelling a lot this cycle ... so we should see that you are up to speed with most of the above before herd4
01:26	rodarvus	indeed
01:26	rodarvus	we need to do that asap
01:26	ogra	there might be coming CD builds where i'm not around or even able to get online ...
01:26	rodarvus	we can arrange for me to arrive "at work" a few hours earlier every day, so we have more time to communicate
01:27	ogra	note that we wont need to care for ppc to much
01:27	rodarvus	(while you're passing me these duties)
01:27	ogra	so if you cant test it thats ok for a milestone
01:27	rodarvus	ok. I have ppc here, but it needs to be arranged a few days in advance for testing
01:28	ogra	(ppc is officially a community port from feisty on)
01:28	rodarvus	yup
01:28	RichEd	=== TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION ===
01:28	RichEd	Anyone with anything here ?
01:28	ogra	well, its up to you ... if you can test it we dont need to care to much on the official side ... its expected that the community takes more responsibilities here
01:29	ogra	s/can/cant/
01:29	willvdl	In the classic tradition of me mixing tech docs with other docs...
01:29	willvdl	It's been mentioned a few times that we need to look at the scope of the handbook carefully
01:30	willvdl	so that we can make use of topic based help etc. in the future (and present)
01:32	ogra	could someone from our doc team prepare a svn checkout of selected docs i casn put into the edubuntu-docs package ? so we can get up to speed with the packaging after herd2 ?
01:32	ogra	(and send it to me)
01:33	willvdl	will ask on the doc-team channels
01:33	ogra	edubuntu-docs is still empty ... and you guys know the quality of the specific docs and whicdh are shippable and which not (i hope) ...
01:33	willvdl	perhaps LaserJock or nixternal might be of most help here
01:34	ogra	yep
01:35	ogra	oh, LaserJock started a nice discussion on the ML about packages for the second CD ... please participate there to keep it running ... we need an applist ...
01:36	ogra	(and tons of main inclusion reports)
01:36	willvdl	will speak to him about maintaining the discussion on the wiki-spec page
01:36	willvdl	moodle popped up a few times
01:37	ogra	well i think we reach more people through the ML
01:37	ogra	i know :(
01:37	ogra	moodle is my big nightmare
01:37	ogra	it needs repackaging
01:37	willvdl	ogra, meaning his list is under his wiki "home"
01:37	ogra	thats fine, we can put the final list somewhere else ...
01:38	ogra	this way people wont start linking to a WIP doc ;)
01:38	willvdl	I like WIP docs :)
01:38	ogra	i know ;)
01:39	willvdl	on the wiki side: still busy archiving, cleaning and scraping stuff around
01:39	willvdl	whenever I get a chance
01:39	ogra	yeah, some people already complained :P
01:39	RichEd	?? about ?
01:40	ogra	there was a breezy user who was looking for the lts.conf parameters wikipage ...
01:40	ogra	i wouldnt even have expected people to still run breezy ltsp ... it was so minimal
01:40	willvdl	I stopped deleting stuff without redirects after that
01:40	ogra	thats good
01:41	willvdl	ogra, the info is still there (never removed any breezy stuff) but was duplicated on help.u.c
01:41	RichEd	have we come to any conclusion / standard as to how we maintain similar info for releases ?
01:41	ogra	willvdl, right, but i couldnt point him to my bookmarked page :)
01:41	willvdl	the doc-team has a spec on the subject
01:42	willvdl	so any technical docs that end up on help.u.c is at the command of the doc-team
01:42	willvdl	they are aware of the issues but still need to resolve a plan
01:42	ogra	which is represented by LaserJock and nixternal for us
01:43	willvdl	for release notes, etc or anything that goes on wiki.u.c, we just need to be intelligent on our naming
01:43	ogra	but i'd like to not put to much load on LaserJock here, he's busy with assembling the second CD list and he wanted to take a lot of the MIRs
01:44	willvdl	when pips1 is around, we can put some effort into shaping our wiki pages to be release specific etc.
01:45	ogra	good
01:45	RichEd	okay ... we must get this right ... it will avoid a lot of frustration & admin
01:46	RichEd	ready to move on to artwork ?
01:46	willvdl	it is straightforward enough to do. as ogra put it last time, simply using the namespace correctly solves most things
01:46	ogra	right
01:46	RichEd	=== ARTWORK ===
01:47	ogra	well, given that cbx33 is missing and AliasVegas isnt around either ... what about artwokr ?
01:47	RichEd	As willvdl mentioned ... cbx33 is not here today ... he is at BETT ... more on that later.
01:47	ogra	there was still no mail or something to the artwork mailing list ...
01:47	ogra	ah
01:48	RichEd	Do you have any urgent artwork issues ogra ... or can we leave the topic for next week ?
01:48	ogra	i'd really like to see something going on ... would be nice to have the artwork on schedule ... feature freeze is on feb 8th
01:48	willvdl	okie. will chat to cbx33 about it again when he's back
01:48	ogra	by then we should at least have a basic concept ...
01:49	RichEd	moving on ...
01:49	RichEd	=== COMMUNITY & DOCUMENTATION & WEB ===
01:50	RichEd	Community wise ... edubuntu is represented at 2 big events this week and next week:
01:50	RichEd	#1 BETT show in the UK - today, tomorrow & friday
01:51	RichEd	Pete Savage (cbx33) is sharing a stand with Open Source Europe on our behalf
01:51	willvdl	: OpenForum Europe
01:51	RichEd	(thanks)
01:51	RichEd	Jono Bacon is cruising the exhibition halls & training area and networking for Edubuntu and Ubuntu community
01:52	ogra	in case you didnt read the UWN ... there is also http://www.itwire.com.au/content/view/8392/53/
01:52	RichEd	If anyone is interested: http://www.bettshow.com/
01:52	ogra	:)
01:52	RichEd	<quote>
01:52	RichEd	BETT is the world's leading educational information & communications technologies (ICT) event, attracting 600 educational suppliers and over 28000 visitors, and bringing together the global teaching and learning community for four days of innovations and inspirations.
01:52	RichEd	<endquote>
01:53	RichEd	BETT = British Education and Training Technology
01:54	RichEd	There are a few other Open Source exhibitors there, and we hope that there will be some good networking with them.
01:54	RichEd	#2 Linux Conference Australia - in Sydney ... next week Mon-Fri
01:55	RichEd	I'll be representing Edubuntu there, and will be delivering a presentation at the Education Mini Conference.
01:55	juliux	i in germany we will present ubuntu via edubuntu and edubuntu on all big expos
01:56	RichEd	Part will be a presentation on Edubuntu and where we are and where we have come from ...
01:56	willvdl	cbx33 created an edubuntu leaflet for BETT
01:57	willvdl	haven't had time yet to pop it into the marketing team channels but will do so soon
01:57	RichEd	And then I will be trying to get a discussion going around how we take the spirit of Open Source software developement into the classroom to get the teachers & learners working in a collaborative way to address software / curriculum.
01:57	juliux	willvdl, cool
01:58	juliux	willvdl, did you have a link to the leaflet?
01:58	willvdl	RichEd, are there workshops or just presentations?
01:58	RichEd	So I hope to recruit people for our mailing lists and community, more from the end-user / education space than from the technical space.
01:58	willvdl	juliux, not at the moment but can email to you
01:58	juliux	willvdl, thxs
01:58	willvdl	RichEd, great
01:59	RichEd	Will I have 40 mins available ... I will present for about 25-30 and then explain how we are now looking at addressing the gap between desktop o/s and curriculum delvivery.
01:59	RichEd	*delivery
02:00	RichEd	I'll try to get people discussing in the meeting room, and then will take it offline for informal chats. There are quite a few Open Source and Education contacts there, also giving presentations, so we will be able to share ideas.
02:01	RichEd	Ubuntu is also well represented at the main conference ... 3 or 4 presentations and some demo's as well.
02:01	RichEd	This is the key Open Source conference for Australia for 2007 ... so we will have a good joint presence.
02:01	RichEd	---
02:02	kgoetz	i'll try and make it to edubuntu stuff, just let me know when it is ;)
02:02	RichEd	kgoetz: monday :)
02:02	kgoetz	RichEd: ah, ok. i'll be there :)
02:03	RichEd	Further on the community side, pips1 will be available from next week, and we will be (finally) getting the education community site. Lots of discussion and planning has been done, and now we need to get the site running.
02:04	RichEd	---
02:04	willvdl	and we need nominations for the EC
02:04	RichEd	ogra: is the EC vote on the first meeting of the month ?
02:04	ogra	usually, yes
02:05	RichEd	Either way, I'd like to nominate willvdl & cbx33
02:05	RichEd	How many positions do we need to fill ?
02:05	ogra	but for a new EC memeber we should first have a call on the ML and some nominations
02:05	ogra	only jeromes
02:06	ogra	i thought about having someone nominate someone on the ML, if this gets a second the person is on the list for the vote
02:06	RichEd	And for the balance of community / canonical ... do we need an external or internal person ?
02:06	RichEd	I presume community if it is to replace Jerome ?
02:06	ogra	we initially said we want more community members than employees
02:06	RichEd	And what dictates the size of the EC ?
02:07	ogra	but i dont really see a reason why we shouldnt rotate that and say this time we'll have more employees, next time more community people again
02:07	ogra	we wanted to have an odd number to make decisions easier ... and five sounded like a good number
02:08	ogra	there was never a dictate for amount of members
02:08	ogra	we can go on with four as well ...
02:08	ogra	even with three
02:08	RichEd	3 is a bit low ...
02:08	ogra	i like odd numbers more though ...
02:08	ogra	right
02:08	RichEd	let's get up to 5 again in feb i think
02:09	ogra	but more than 5 is overkill
02:09	ogra	right
02:09	willvdl	agree
02:09	ogra	even though we're only two EC members here atm, do we want to go over wills application ?
02:09	ogra	(if he wants to go for EC he needs tzo be a member anyway)
02:10	RichEd	Can you put a call out on the mail list for nominations this month ... and we consider nomination on the 31st Jan and vote on wed 7th Feb
02:10	ogra	yep
02:10	RichEd	Then we can make sure we have a god EC representation at both meetings.
02:10	ogra	yep
02:11	ogra	will is on the agenda ....
02:11	RichEd	sorry ...
02:12	ogra	i mean its a no brainer anyway ...
02:12	willvdl	I have a brain
02:12	ogra	looking at the wikipage there are a lot of substantial contributions ... (would be odd if not for a paied contributor ;) )
=== RichEd add strong support for willvdl
02:13	ogra	so since i know what will does and how much time he invests in edubuntu thats a general +1 from me
02:14	ogra	RichEd, so thats a +1 as well ?
02:14	RichEd	indeed
02:14	RichEd	+1.5 if that is allowed
02:14	ogra	oki, i'll contact LaserJock and highvoltage to confirm ...
02:14	willvdl	why thank you
02:15	ogra	hmm, we could even set a special rule that two voices suffice as long as we're only 4 members in the EC
02:15	willvdl	50% quorum
=== ogra thinks for four weeks that should work :)
02:15	RichEd	i'd say rather get support from 1 more via email ...
02:15	ogra	RichEd, do you agree ?
02:15	ogra	ok
02:15	ogra	i'll care then
02:16	ogra	willvdl, 50% welcome then ;)
02:16	willvdl	Thanks :)
02:16	RichEd	50% could lead to a split
02:16	RichEd	And also I am sure that highvoltage will give +1 witrhout even thinking about it :)
02:16	RichEd	*wirhout
02:18	RichEd	Okay ... are we ready to wrap up for today ? I have a whack of a document pack to get through before silbs leaves the office today.
=== highvoltage says a belated +1 for willvdl
02:21	RichEd	thanks highvoltage :)

</pre>
