{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting May 24, 2006 (Informal) ==
=== Technical ===
* '''ogra''' - still some problems with oversized isos
=== Community ===
* '''JaneW''' - announced that she is leaving Canonical in mid-June and started to prepare for people to take over some roles
** '''cbx33''' and '''mhz''' - volunteered to take over spam duty on edubuntu-devel
** '''cbx33''' - was asked to take on the role of council/minute scribing and posting, and told to delegate as necessary
* '''JaneW''' - announced that shipit.edubuntu.com was now accepting orders and '''cbx33''' added that orders were limited to 5 at the moment
* '''ogra''' - made a plea for more developers to help with edubuntu
* '''ogra''' - volunteered, to be the official meeting reminder guy ;)
* '''mhz''' - was concerned at edubuntu losing a female voice in Canonical
* '''cbx33''' - presented '''JaneW''' with her likeness sketch drawn by lisa, <nowiki>[[[http:--www.progbox.co.uk-jane.jpg|JaneW]]</nowiki>]
=== Artwork ===
* '''flint''' - reported that '''jelkner''' was experiencing a fantastic feedback from the Homies wallpaper
=== Documentation ===
* '''ogra''' - Brought everyones attention to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodeNamesToVersionNumbers and urged people to look at it very hard before the release
* '''cbx33''' - mentioned about the wiki move, '''ogra''' mentioned that most of the edubuntu wiki articles would not be moving yet as most of them are still WIP
* '''cbx33''' - announced that he and '''highvoltage''' were working on the new CSS theme for edubuntu.org
* '''cbx33''' - stated he had been working clearing the wiki and pulling together all the LTSP documents, and the new wiki front page
* '''JaneW''' - mentioned she had mailed the video install author and was waiting for a reply
* '''cbx33''' - announced ESA had been frozen and that it was currently being ported to scribus and drupal
=== Council ===
* '''JaneW''' - expressed concern at there only being 4 EC members left, '''ogra''' stated whilst it was not ideal, they could still function. 
