{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting August 16, 2006 ==
=== Technical ===
* '''ogra''' - mentioned that localdev was almost complete, and that he would make sure CD images were usable by the weekend
* '''ogra''' - mentioned that '''cbx33''' had been working on SCP, but he had not had a chance to look at it yet
* '''ogra''' - '''mdz''' was looking for a list of specs that may get dropped
* '''ogra''' - informed that the swap server, ldm login and session handling would be prioritised
* '''ogra''' - asked people to give feedback on URGENT specs from a community POV
** '''highvoltage''' - said that the two specs mentioned were on his list and '''LaserJock''' and '''cbx33''' seconded that
* '''LaserJock''' - asked if sabayon would be fixed
* '''ogra''' - asked peoples opinion about shipping a predefined lts.conf
** '''highvoltage''' - and '''cbx33''' thought that rather a good idea
* '''LaserJock''' - mentioned he had his edgy box up and running and would be working on his spec
* '''ogra''' - asked everyone to test willowng
* '''RichEd''' - mentioned '''sabdfl''' was willing to use a DVD this release, but everyone agreed that CD should still be our major medium, in order to be totally compatible

=== Artwork ===
* '''cbx33''' - informed everyone to check out https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Palette for some initial ideas for splash and login screens
** '''ogra''' - mentioned that ldm won't be able to support such high quality graphics, and '''cbx33''' said that was already taken care of
** '''LaserJock''' - wondered if the colours were a little too bright
** '''RichEd''' - and the rest of the group thought we should try some more images that included people of other ethnicities
* '''cbx33''' - mentioned he had had a great reply from '''sabdfl''' on the UbuntuSounds, and was looking to incorporate '''bimberi'''s playground sounds

=== Documentation ===
* '''cbx33''' - mentioned the need for scp documentation, '''ogra''' also added the need for willow docs too
* '''cbx33''' - asked how many people actually use the minutes, as he was thinking of stopping them.  However so many people used them he decided to continue

=== Community ===
* '''rodarvus''' - mentioned his "secret" again, but wouldn't tell anyone about it
* '''highvoltage''' - expressed his desire to stop doing website maintenance, in favour of doing more "fun" stuff, and asked for volunteers
** '''ogra''' - said matthew handles all the updates to the server, and it would be the community that would need to create the content
* '''RichEd''' - mentioned the appointment of JonoBacon as the new Community Manager
* '''RichEd''' - asked for more help, as Ubuntu is getting bigger, Edubuntu will too
