{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting April 11, 2007 ==
=== Technical ===
* Google Summer of Code apps being evaluated
* ''edubuntu-docs'' package is final for Feisty
* Need an About Edubuntu menu item on ths System Menu
=== Documentation ===
* Handbook updated
** TCM and 2nd CD material added
* Translation templates set up for ''edubuntu-docs''
=== Websites ===
* Themes being designed for Edubuntu drupal site (like new Ubuntu site) 
=== Community ===
* UES coming up
* Schedule an Edubuntu community building BoF
** With a preliminary discussion before UES on IRC
=== Management & Planning ===
* https://launchpad.net/sprints/ues-sevilla-2007
** for adding meetings, discussions etc.
<pre>
10:00	willvdl	Hi folks, shall we get started?
10:01	highvoltage	hi willvdl, RichEd and LaserJock
10:01	LaserJock	hi
10:01	LaserJock	no ogra?
10:01	willvdl	haven't seen him
10:01	RichEd	helllo highvoltage ... willvdl will chair tonight & i will be a fly on the wall
10:02	highvoltage	cool, I'm also doing some other work (have a very early deadline tomorrow morning)
10:02	willvdl	Well let's kick off anyhoo?
10:03	willvdl	== Technical ==
10:04	stgraber	(Ogra is in #ubuntu-devel but busy with testing the isos I guess)
10:04	willvdl	ah.
10:04	LaserJock	well, I guess we need .iso testing
10:04	willvdl	Who here is busy testing?
=== LaserJock looks around
10:05	willvdl	meaning, not at this very minute :)
10:06	willvdl	alrighty, shall we move down the list to Docs?
10:06	pygi	sure =)
10:07	willvdl	I'm a bit out of touch over the last month
10:07	willvdl	LaserJock, anything specific to mention?
10:07	LaserJock	ok, well couple things
10:08	LaserJock	1 SoC apps are almost done being evaluated
10:08	willvdl	SoC?
10:08	LaserJock	Google Summer of Code
10:08	willvdl	ah
10:08	LaserJock	lots of Edubuntu related applications
10:08	LaserJock	hopefully we'll get a few
10:08	ajmitch	morning
10:09	LaserJock	2nd thing, Edubuntu doc package
10:09	willvdl	hey
10:09	LaserJock	hi ajmitch
10:09	LaserJock	edubuntu-docs is pretty much final for Feisty
10:09	willvdl	sweet
10:09	LaserJock	we added an About Edubuntu menu item in the System menu
10:09	highvoltage	the edubuntu universe is eternally grateful for that
10:09	LaserJock	we got the Handbook cleared up a bit
10:10	LaserJock	sbalneav rocked the house
10:10	willvdl	woot
10:10	LaserJock	we added TCM and 2nd CD material
10:10	pygi	pardon me, may I interrupt with something?
10:10	LaserJock	I also got translation templates set up
10:11	willvdl	pygi, shoot?
10:11	LaserJock	pygi: go for it
10:11	pygi	from last SoC we've got couple of nice things which we never got around to packaging
10:11	juliux	hi all
10:11	pygi	I think we should set some goal for feisty+1 to get those packages
10:11	willvdl	pygi, such as?
10:12	LaserJock	pygi: we need sources
10:12	pygi	LaserJock, willvdl : the quiz thingy from ryan
10:12	LaserJock	I asked about that a while back ago and nobody knew where the source was
10:12	pygi	LaserJock, they do exist
10:12	pygi	LaserJock, I know
10:12	pygi	we'll talk about those later then
10:12	willvdl	LaserJock, 2nd CD: should I look up in Launchpad for details?
10:12	LaserJock	the addon cd
10:13	LaserJock	btw, translations for edubuntu docs is at https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/edubuntu-docs/+translations
10:13	willvdl	excellent
10:14	willvdl	seems I got some serious catching up to do
10:14	LaserJock	also some other good news, sbalneav just got svn access to the Doc team repo
10:14	willvdl	sweet
10:15	willvdl	other than cbx33, who else has access?
=== pygi also thinks he should work on getting access since he worked on the book =)
10:15	pygi	LaserJock, I need to prove to you I can write docbook, right ? :P
10:16	LaserJock	willvdl: actually cbx33 doesn't. it's just nixternal, sbalneav and myself
10:16	LaserJock	and also jsgontanco
10:16	willvdl	LaserJock, I thought Pete had for ESA?
10:16	LaserJock	I don't think so
10:16	LaserJock	he just sent me patches
10:17	willvdl	oh. anyhoo, how did his book chapter go?
10:19	LaserJock	not sure, fine I guess
10:19	willvdl	pygi, want to move back to SoC questions?
10:20	pygi	willvdl, like what? :)
10:21	pygi	I was accepted this year for SoC as a student, but my tasks are not connected to edubuntu in particular
10:21	pygi	however as I was mentor last year, I can help and will gladly do so to manage edubuntu students
10:21	willvdl	pygi, just looking back..something about sources?
10:21	pygi	willvdl, ah, yes, the source's for ryan's work are on sourceforge
10:22	willvdl	pygi, that reminds me, want to ask you something afterwards...
10:22	willvdl	alrighty, who's here from Artwork?
10:23	pygi	willvdl, ofcourse, whatever you need
10:24	willvdl	hmm, seems we are attendance challenged tonight :)
10:24	LaserJock	pygi: can you perhaps make an Edubuntu SoC page where we list projects and links to sources?
10:25	pygi	LaserJock, for this year?
10:25	pygi	LaserJock, TBH not needed. Google has requirements to post all projects sources to google hosting
10:26	willvdl	maybe still link via LP or something
10:26	pygi	from last year, it was Amaranth with willow-ng and ryan with his quiz thingy
10:27	pygi	willvdl, well, last year I wanted my mentors to write a official spec in LP and open a product
10:27	pygi	this year you should do the same IMHO
10:28	willvdl	well, at the least we can get something going on the wiki as LaserJock suggests
10:30	willvdl	next on the list is Websites
10:30	willvdl	I see the Ubuntu site was upgraded while I was gone
10:30	RichEd	yep ... matt nuzum's work
10:31	highvoltage	yep. RichEd said last week that themes are being designed for the Edubuntu website too, sot htat the sites look consistent.
10:31	RichEd	to fill you in, he is producing a drupal template for other variants
10:31	RichEd	highvoltage: yes.
10:31	willvdl	cool
10:32	highvoltage	RichEd: will the education website still take place?
=== highvoltage has been out of touch with the education website progress
10:32	willvdl	Will need to look again at what goes on web and what goes on wiki
10:32	RichEd	highvoltage: yes, needing more time to get around to it :(
10:32	highvoltage	ah
10:33	highvoltage	time is a scarce resource
10:33	willvdl	highvoltage, only if you sleep
10:33	highvoltage	willvdl: I'll sleep when I'm dead ;)
10:35	willvdl	alrighty, coming up to "Community"
10:36	willvdl	Who's coming to UES?
=== willvdl me
=== RichEd me
10:37	highvoltage	willvdl: can we have a session to brainstorm on expanding the edubuntu community?
10:37	LaserJock	I'm coming!
10:37	RichEd	highvoltage: we will have one at UES ... chaired by jono
10:37	willvdl	highvoltage, sure. you mean at UES or IRC?
10:38	highvoltage	willvdl: preferably UES, but either way.
10:41	willvdl	highvoltage, you want a community session before UES?
10:42	highvoltage	willvdl: perhaps a preliminary one before it, possibly even during one of our usual IRC meetings (with warning on the mailing lists)
10:42	willvdl	cool. good idea
10:42	highvoltage	willvdl: and then we have a face-to-face meeting in UES and bash out some ideas based on previous discussions
10:42	RichEd	highvoltage: do you want to start a wiki page ?
10:42	RichEd	and i can add it to the discussions for UES
10:42	highvoltage	RichEd: yes, that sounds like a good idea
10:44	willvdl	okie, lets pop something on the list and chat in one of the meetings
10:44	highvoltage	ok
10:44	willvdl	I think the 8pm UTC meetings are easier for most to attend?
=== highvoltage didn't know there were 8pm UTC meetings
10:45	willvdl	but then only really two opportunities left so maybe enxt week
10:45	willvdl	highvoltage, this is one
10:45	RichEd	we have more attendance at the midday ones lately
10:45	highvoltage	willvdl: ah ok
10:46	willvdl	moving on: Mngmt & Planning?
10:46	RichEd	willvdl: just UES from my side ... let me get the launchpad page ... brb
10:47	willvdl	cool
10:47	RichEd	https://launchpad.net/sprints/ues-sevilla-2007
10:47	RichEd	create & add meetings here ... and make a wiki page link for comments / input
10:49	willvdl	are these official scheduled meetings for the UES programme?
10:49	RichEd	those are the list of potential BOFs yes
10:49	RichEd	we may add / remove / refine ... but that is the start
10:49	willvdl	ah. gotcha
10:50	RichEd	also presentations from a lot of people ... am adding to the UES wiki page tomorrow morning
10:50	willvdl	can they link to UDS BoFs as things progress? Haven't played with the LP meeting functionality yet
10:50	RichEd	not sure ... will find out :)
10:51	willvdl	no biggy
10:52	willvdl	"Any other Matters Arising"?
=== RichEd is done
10:52	willvdl	Shall we wrap this up on the hour?
10:52	RichEd	fine with me
=== willvdl notices there is a new "Scribes" team for meeting logging and minutes generating
10:53	willvdl	going to take a little research
10:55	willvdl	https://wiki.edubuntu.org/MeetingLogs
10:57	willvdl	===== </Edubuntu Meeting> =====
</pre>
