{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== About the Edubuntu Wiki ==

'''What is a Wiki?'''
 A <nowiki>[[WikiPedia:Wiki|wiki]]</nowiki> is a collaborative website that allows users to easily edit, add and contribute to the content available.

 Help on using the wiki can be found at:
** HelpContents
** MoinMoin
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide

 /!\ Please abide by the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> at all times.

'''Why Do We Use a Wiki?'''
 The spirit of the Ubuntu community, and indeed the Open Source community, is in sharing and collaboration. This spirit needs to be harnassed and supported in the tools that community uses and rely on. A wiki is one such tool that helps to enable member contributions in manner that is simple, user-friendly and effective.

=== What is the Edubuntu Wiki? ===
The Edubuntu Wiki, https://wiki.edubuntu.org/Edubuntu, is the wiki space for the Edubuntu Team and contains information about:
* The Edubuntu community: how to get in touch and how to contribute
* Project management and tracking pages of projects and specifications within Edubuntu
* Launchpad teams: their goals, plans and progress
* Launchpad Specifications: their details, roadmaps and status
The Edubuntu Wiki is not meant for including help, how-tos or documentation. We prefer to use the <nowiki>[[#Help|Ubuntu Help wiki]]</nowiki> in accordance with the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam|Documentation Team's]]</nowiki> processes.

To contribute to the Wiki is simple and open, but we do urge you to refer to section on <nowiki>[[#EdubuntuWikiUsage|how to use the Edubuntu wiki]]</nowiki> so that we can contribute information in a fashion that is:
* relevant
* logical & structured
* linked from a central place so that pages are not left "hanging"

==== Edubuntu Wiki vs Ubuntu Wiki ====
/!\ '''It is important to note that https://wiki.edubuntu.org and http://wiki.ubuntu.com are the same wiki!'''<<BR>>
They share the same base but they just look different (as they use different stylesheets).

For example, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter and https://wiki.edubuntu.org/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter are the same page.

=== What is the Ubuntu Help Community Wiki ===
Technical help for Ubuntu or any of its derivitives (like Edubuntu), however, will not be kept on the Edubuntu wiki. There is a specific website, https://help.ubuntu.com, dedicated to maintaining technical information, guides and howtos. 

This site also contains a collaborative wiki, https://help.ubuntu.com/community/, for community contributed documentation. Refer to the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiTeam|Wiki Team]]</nowiki> pages and the  <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide|Wiki Guide]]</nowiki> before making contributions.

We urge you to join the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam|Ubuntu Documentation Project]]</nowiki> if you want to contribute towards documenting Ubuntu, Edubuntu or any of the other derivitives.

== Using the Edubuntu Wiki ==
=== Edubuntu Namespace ===
Since the Ubuntu and Edubuntu wikis have the same base, all Edubuntu related wiki pages should preferably use the "Edubuntu" namespace. 
* For example, wiki pages are <nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing/SubPages|sub-linked]]</nowiki> off the <nowiki>[[Edubuntu|Edubuntu start page]]</nowiki> as: <code>http://wiki.edubuntu.org/Edubuntu/Community</code> or <code>https://wiki.edubuntu.org/Edubuntu/ToDo</code>
* Alternately, Edubuntu related wiki pages can have Wiki``Names that start with "Edubuntu" such as <code>https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuArtwork</code>
Each convention above is fine and will have the same search results when navigating the wiki. We do prefer, though, that <nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing/SubPages|sub-linking]]</nowiki> be used as it then offers more capabilities for <nowiki>[[HelpOnMacros|navigating child and sibling pages]]</nowiki>.

=== Navigating the Edubuntu Wiki ===
A site map (which acts as a plan or roadmap as well) for the Edubuntu wiki is available at /SiteMap.

=== Things To Do With the Edubuntu Wiki ===
A lot of cleanup and archiving is needed. Refer to:
* <nowiki>[[/Cleanup]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Archive]]</nowiki>
* CategoryEdubuntuCleanup

== Links to Sub-Pages ==
