{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting December 20, 2006 ==
=== Technical ===
* ogra: edsadmin (user/group admin) is in the queue
* cbx33, aliasvegas, sbalneav: MOTD/ldm login screen concept agreed on
** caveat to keep size down
* roadrvus to start focussing on education work in 2007
** initially on testing, integration and CD build
** looking at other education related devices (e.g. whiteboards)
** OLPC on hold, Thai government dropped involvement
=== Artwork ===
* See MOTD login screen concept above
=== Documentation ===
* TopicBasedHelp has been moved into svn trunk
* EdubuntuWikiCleanup process started
* LaserJock: new yelp front page for edubuntu
* sbalneav: working on LTSP sections for handbook
* need to define role of handbook
** so that we can decide on what other supporting docs we need
** and how to integrate with TopicBasedHelp
* Release Notes should be linked from releases.ubuntu.com
* ESA is in doc-team svn
** move to bzr
=== Community ===
* cbx33 attending BETT2007
** RichEd will check with Canonical as to what resources and materials will be available
<pre>
09:04	RichEd		ogra: any technical news ?
09:05	ogra		not really, edsadmin (the new user/groups admin tool) for edubuntu-network-auth-server is in the new queue
09:05	ogra		apart from that i was busy with merges and poking around in ldap
09:05	LaserJock	ogra: is that only for network auth?
09:05	LaserJock	edsadmin
09:05	ogra		yeps
09:06	ogra		thats the replacement for the user and groups tool
09:06	LaserJock	ok, but what about local users and groups?
09:06	LaserJock	I'm not really sure how all that works, I should read up
09:07	LaserJock	I was hoping it would be relatively simple to tie user/group managment to the menu GUI
09:07	ogra		if edubuntu-network-client is installed, the menu entry for users and groups is replaced by esdadmin
09:07	ogra		or if edubuntu-network-server is installed ...
09:08	ogra		so as long as the machine has one of these installed, the machine is either client or server in the edubuntu network and has no local users
09:08	LaserJock	so you get one or the other
09:08	rodarvus	ogra: *no* local users?
09:08	ogra		(apart from the defaul system users indeed)
09:09	ogra		well thats about it, oh, and gcompris is at version 8.2.2
09:10	LaserJock	I saw that
09:10	stgraber	Sorry, I didn't really follow the discussions about edubuntu-network-server, is any Windows compatibility planned ? (through Samba for example) ?
09:10	highvoltage	on testing, there's been only some response, which is ok considering that Feisty is only at the first alpha release.
09:11	ogra		stgraber, https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/edubuntu-network-auth-client and https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/edubuntu-network-auth-server have all the info
09:11	cbx33		ok...I have a piece for tech ogra so let me know when ;)
09:11	ogra		i'm done
09:11	highvoltage	the only bug seemed to be about the gdmsetup program not starting up. testing will continue to get more aggressive as alpha releases become available.
09:12	ogra		i havent seen that one ...
09:12	cbx33		ok, can I take the stand
09:12	cbx33		I was talking to aliasvegas earlier
09:12	cbx33		and sbalneav
09:13	cbx33		we came up with a concept I wanted to put before people
09:13	cbx33		on the ldm login screen....
09:13	cbx33		what do people think of this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Palette?highlight=%28palette%29
09:13	cbx33		with a real working analog clock
09:13	cbx33		and.....a MOTD section
09:14	cbx33		it's just a conecpt....but borders on tech/art
09:14	willvdl		ooh, I like the message idea
09:14	cbx33		I'm willing to code up the clock if people think it's a good enough concept
09:14	ogra		to much graphics for ldm ... you cant do any fullscreen graphics, it slows it down to much
09:14	willvdl		nobody will be able to miss that
09:14	cbx33		willvdl: we were thinking of literaslly /etc/motd
09:14	highvoltage	cbx33: that is seriously cool
09:14	cbx33		ogra: ok
09:15	cbx33		no way we can compress or do something seriously funky.....i guess that owuld take us to spec stage
09:15	ogra		if you manage to keep the graphics small it would be fine indeed :)
09:15	highvoltage	cbx33: would the real analogue clock also come from the gdesklets code? :)
09:15	cbx33		yeh?
09:15	cbx33		highvoltage: could do....or we could write our own
09:15	RichEd		artwork looks very slick i must say
09:15	cbx33		it's just a concept....hmmm....
09:16	cbx33		we could possibly use a canvas and draw it....?? what d'ya think ogra ?
09:16	cbx33		instead of using a screen shot?
09:16	willvdl		so admins could easily add MOTD's to the pool?
09:16	cbx33		yes
09:16	cbx33		we could even have it on a rotating basis
09:16	ogra		it is a canvas
09:16	willvdl		or maybe fortune?
09:16	cbx33		then all is cool
09:16	cbx33		willvdl: as you wish
09:16	ogra		so you can draw what you like indeed :)
09:16	cbx33		ogra: I'll take a look at that if you think it's a good idea
09:17	ogra		just keep the smallness of bitmaps in mind, thats all i demand, ldm is slow enough ;)
09:17	cbx33		ok
09:17	ogra		sure, go ahead
09:17	willvdl		nice
09:17	cbx33		ogra: is it pixel sizes that kill
09:17	cbx33		or just overall size ?
09:17	ogra		bytes
09:17	cbx33		ok
09:17	cbx33		gimme a limit
09:17	ogra		its a matter of network and bandwith
09:17	cbx33		I'll try to work to it with graphics.....
09:18	cbx33		if not I'll look at drawing
09:18	ogra		currently the logo in 200x50px or something is the limit, dunno how big you can go
09:18	willvdl		cbx33, presumably scaling down the palette would do the trick?
09:18	cbx33		willvdl: that was my idea
09:19	highvoltage	imho the graphics for the login manager only makes a small difference compared to the rest of the data a thin client reads to boot off from the network. but ogra is right, no need to make it slower :)
09:19	cbx33		maybe have a more raytrace type shadow instead of shadowmaps
=== RichEd remembers when windows had the ability to embed web info into the desktop, like a stock ticker tape, and wonders if a school would find that useful for a "school or principals" message / announcement stream.
09:19	cbx33		RichEd: sounds good
09:19	ogra		RichEd, thats what gdesklets does ....
09:19	cbx33		if this works...we could have a deskbar applet that reads the same info
09:19	willvdl		ActiveDesktop
09:20	RichEd		where it us a text feed, and local HTML rendering
09:21	cbx33		so good to experiemnt with then eh?
09:21	ogra		sure
09:21	cbx33		cool
09:21	RichEd		It would need a simple tool to edit the news / message to show the principal ... it may be a small "selling feature" when doing a demo.
09:21	cbx33		and now SCP
09:21	cbx33		np sbalneav I just pitched your MPTD idea
09:21	cbx33		MOTD
09:21	cbx33		it's a big hit
09:22	ogra		MOTD ?
09:22	cbx33		ogra: we'll leave it till after christmas if you like
09:22	cbx33		message of the day
09:22	sbalneav	Stylin' and Profilin' :)
09:22	ogra		ah
09:22	LaserJock	RichEd: there are some apps that show things like MOTD or system logs in the background
09:22	cbx33		can we sched a meeting for SCP
09:22	LaserJock	perhaps we could adapt something like that
09:22	ogra		cbx33, tomorrow ?
09:22	sbalneav	ogra: got a quick patch for you, I'll try to get it in my bzr tree by end of day.
09:22	cbx33		ogra.....ok what time
09:22	cbx33		early is good for me
09:23	cbx33		like 9-11 UTC kinda time
09:23	cbx33		9am :p
09:23	cbx33		too early for you?
09:23	ogra		hmm, thats bad for me ...
09:23	RichEd		LaserJock yes ... I am sure it it 90% possible at the moment ... with some tweaks to make it look like a school announcement to be noticed.
09:23	cbx33		ok
09:23	cbx33		what about evening?
09:23	ogra		i'd prefer 14UTC or something around that or evening
09:23	cbx33		RichEd: we could tie it into the artwork...so to have a space on the wallpaper...
09:23	cbx33		ogra: 14 UTC is gonna be probably travel time for me
09:23	cbx33		evening would work better
09:24	cbx33		I'll have to confirm
09:24	RichEd		cbx33: that was my first impression before I saw the login box ... i figured it was a wallpaper.
09:24	cbx33		yeh
09:24	ogra		oki, we need to be done before 20:00UTC ... i have a meeting at 21 UTC
09:24	cbx33		ok
09:24	cbx33		we'll get there one day ;)
09:24	ogra		lets say 18:00 UTC
09:24	cbx33		hmmm.bad for me :p
09:25	ogra		19 ?
09:25	cbx33		ogra: let's carry this on in pm
09:25	cbx33		no point holding up the meeting
09:25	ogra		ok
09:25	ogra		well, then tech is done
09:25	cbx33		ogra: one more
09:25	cbx33		did you get my patch this time?
09:25	RichEd		Some tech related news from Rodarvus is that he will be winding up his X responsibilities for the distro team and starting to focus more directly on education work in 2007.
09:26	ogra		cbx33, yes
09:26	ogra		looks fine to me
09:26	cbx33		ogra: is it good to go?
09:26	cbx33		excellent....
09:26	highvoltage	rodarvus: are you still working on OLPC stuff?
09:27	rodarvus	no, unfortunately this is also on hold. (for other reasons)
09:27	RichEd		highvoltage: the thai government have dropped their entire OLPC involvement
09:27	sbalneav	Who's going to be X maintainer now?
09:27	willvdl		I heard someone refer to it as the $200 laptop the other day. Must be inflation
09:27	rodarvus	so, I'll be working on the education team (for real) from now on :)
09:27	RichEd		so rodarvus will stay on top of the OLPC initiative, but it is not a delivery focus
09:28	willvdl		Yay whiteboards! ?
09:28	RichEd		yep ... coming to that ...
09:28	rodarvus	sbalneav: afaik it will be a team effort (as it was before I arrived), until Canonical finds the right person
09:28	highvoltage	willvdl: OLPC said that the initial laptops will actually cost US$200-US%350 to manufacture, but that it should come down to US$100 as the unit quantities scale up
09:28	willvdl		ah
09:29	sbalneav	ogra: I suppose we should file a bug for the X memory preseed.
09:29	sbalneav	So it doesn't get lost in the shuffle.
09:29	ogra		yeah
09:29	ogra		dunno who merges xserver-xorg, seb128 is listed on merges.ubuntu.com for it
09:30	RichEd		rodarvus' initial focus will be testing / integration and CD build
09:30	ogra		the fix needs to go into that package ...
09:30	LaserJock	awesome
09:31	RichEd		and he's also going to look at the other education related devices out there that come into the frame ...
09:31	cbx33		coool
09:31	ogra		rodarvus, hacking kernel drivers for electronic whiteboards ?
09:31	willvdl		this is good news indeed
09:31	RichEd		so he's chatting to willvdl about finding out the situation with smartboards / interactive whiteboards
09:31	highvoltage	cool, there's talk that Via will release a laptop that's closer to a 'real' laptop for US$350-US$400, I think that's going to make some inroads into many areas.
09:31	rodarvus	ogra: no way :)
09:32	ogra		heh
09:32	cbx33		rodarvus: oh in that case...maybe you can help me out ;) with my interactive whiteboard
09:32	RichEd		i.e. where are they now w.r.t. open source ... do they need help getting compatile etc.
09:32	cbx33		I have some info on hitachi
09:32	rodarvus	a brazilian company called Positivo released a 400US$ laptop, for a national program for poor students
09:32	cbx33		who do I speak to?
09:32	rodarvus	this is not "market reality"
09:32	rodarvus	(yet)
09:32	rodarvus	but will, in the future
09:32	rodarvus	the sad part is that they have a very good (and close) relationship with Microsoft
09:33	rodarvus	and the thing will run XP Starter Edition
09:33	rodarvus	cbx33: sure, I can try :)
09:33	cbx33		hang on I'll pm you
09:33	RichEd		so if anyone gets interesting news in this area, or has contacts, send an email to rodarvus
09:33	willvdl		rodarvus, do you if it's true that AMD ship 14000 PICs a month into Brazil?
09:33	rodarvus	any emails/news/info will be appreciated :)
09:34	RichEd		highvoltage & willvdl : rodarvus will also look at the microclient junior / nohrtec appliance to see what help they need with xubuntu or xfce
09:34	rodarvus	willvdl: I don't have any numbers, but its a reasonable number, I'd say.
09:35	RichEd		So on the one hand, rodarvus will have a core dev focus, helping with the Edubuntu product
09:35	willvdl		"Smart" (makers of original whiteboard) have linux support. THey are NEPAD partner...sortof
09:35	cbx33		good to have you (back) rodarvus
09:35	LaserJock	does my calculator count as an educational device? perhaps it could run micro-Edubuntu :-)
09:35	RichEd		And on the other will be some specualtion / strategic stuff ... where you can all help with sending education related h/w news
09:35	cbx33		LaserJock: Casio 9850-G
09:36	rodarvus	yeah, its good to be back :)
09:36	willvdl		RichEd, working with Norhtec guys on that?
09:36	cbx33		now that'd rock ;)
09:36	LaserJock	I've got a TI-92 that people have called a computer
09:36	cbx33		heh
09:36	cbx33		ok where are we?
09:36	RichEd		willvdl: well they have approached us, and say that they have clients using the device and linux ... and they would like to suggest ubuntu to the clients
09:37	LaserJock	tech doc?
09:37	rodarvus	(on the phone, will be back in a minute)
09:38	willvdl		ah. Nigeria
09:38	willvdl		Trying to turn their clients into a LoCo
09:38	highvoltage	their clients?
09:38	highvoltage	that sounds interesting!
09:38	RichEd		willvdl: they have OEM clients who use the Nohrtec appliances in building an end-products
09:39	RichEd		and the OEM clients do not want to pay for a win licence out of their own margin
09:39	willvdl		long story
09:39	RichEd		table side menus that are interactive and let you order from a touchscreen ...
09:40	highvoltage	22:37 < LaserJock> tech doc?
09:40	highvoltage	willvdl?
09:40	willvdl		well, I always get tech doc and community doc confused
09:41	LaserJock	well, it's sort of the same thing isn't it?
09:41	willvdl		but Topic Based Help has been moved into the trunk. I'm getting up to speed as we go
09:42	willvdl		https://wiki.edubuntu.org/EdubuntuWikiCleanup has been going well and is an important excercise
=== willvdl makes call for suggestions/comments on it
09:42	LaserJock	we should see if we could get a new yelp front page for Edubuntu
09:43	LaserJock	for TBH that would include the Ubuntu stuff plus LTPS, etc.
09:43	willvdl		would make sense
09:44	LaserJock	Don Scorgie would be a good resource for that
09:44	willvdl		who is he?
09:44	LaserJock	but maybe Matthew East could too
09:44	LaserJock	one of the main Gnome doc devs
09:44	LaserJock	he's the upstream upstream for yelp
09:45	willvdl		next stop is to rejuvinate the handbook. any thoughts on how TBH would impact it?
09:45	LaserJock	well, I think it would sort of give it the "bite-sized" flavor
09:45	cbx33		well handbook is going well
09:46	cbx33		nixternal: and sbalneav are working on it right?
09:46	sbalneav	There's a bit more work to be done on the LTSP side.  Specifically, what's REALLY needed is a good solid "debugging thin clients" section.
09:46	sbalneav	Yes, I'll work on that, and all LTSP related stuff.
09:47	highvoltage	sbalneav: please shout if you need anything
09:47	ogra		i9'll look into merging vagrants ltsp-chroot script
09:47	ogra		so we'll have a commandline maintenance tool
09:47	LaserJock	I think many of the empty sections could be filled from the Ubuntu docs
09:47	cbx33		nice
09:47	ogra		and dont forget ltsp manager ...
09:48	willvdl		sbalneav, I'll help with the outlines etc. and can contribute on the softer stuff
09:48	willvdl		Are there any thoughts on a Desktop Guide like the other distros? Or is the Handbook to take this role?
09:49	ogra		i thought the handbook was supposed to ...
09:49	LaserJock	I see the handbook as Desktop Guide + LTSP + ESA
09:49	ogra		but that might have changed over time, i'm not surte anymore
09:49	cbx33		indeed
09:50	willvdl		that answers question fine, thanks
09:50	LaserJock	I would grab desktop guide material from Ubuntu
09:50	RichEd		willvdl: how would you see the difference (if any)
09:50	willvdl		none really
09:50	willvdl		only in name
09:50	willvdl		there is ubuntu desktop guide & book
09:50	highvoltage	willvdl: it might be a good idea to define the role of what the handbook is? I think a big problem with the handbook has been that there hasn't been a clear definition of what it's supposed to be
09:50	willvdl		we have book as guide
09:51	RichEd		desktop guide sounds very end-user specific ... whereas the handbook is a guide for user as well as admin ?
09:51	willvdl		gotcha
09:51	willvdl		I prefer handbook
09:51	RichEd		yep. me 2
09:51	willvdl		besides, it gets difficult to think of edubuntu in terms of the desktop and server guide
09:51	LaserJock	well, with TBH we don't use the word "Guide" anymore
09:52	LaserJock	it's all about the topic, doesn't matter from which content it comes
09:52	willvdl		ah yes, saw that discussion
09:52	willvdl		but eventually the topics get pulled into something
09:53	LaserJock	a "One doc to rule them all" approach is nice, but difficult to manage and get people involved as it can be a bit overwhelming, IMO
09:53	willvdl		LaserJock agreed.
09:53	willvdl		The nice thing about TBH is it gets easier to pull together a doc for an audience
09:53	LaserJock	yep
09:53	willvdl		on demand
09:54	willvdl		just takes some major forward planning :)
09:54	willvdl		anyhoo, TBH is in trunk
09:54	willvdl		I wanted to ask about the other "docs" as such
09:55	willvdl		Release Notes: they appear for betas, and releases right?
09:56	RichEd		yep ... from my experience ... a release triggers a doc
09:57	LaserJock	yep
09:57	willvdl		where do the beta release notes go?
09:57	LaserJock	wiki
09:57	willvdl		I've noticed some old ones in the wiki
09:57	LaserJock	I think the herds and beta/RC go on the wiki
09:58	willvdl		cool. they then get poached into the svn at release time?
09:58	RichEd		they should also be available as a link to download / save next to any .iso release
09:58	willvdl		RichEd, they are all on help.u.c
09:59	RichEd		yep, but if say a new release requires a certain hardware spec, then it is polite to let a user check that out before downloading an .iso which he does not have enough RAM to run for example.
10:00	willvdl		yip. they are made available with the releases. not exactly sure where though
10:00	RichEd		I am envisaging a kind of a readme before you upgrade / download requirement.
10:01	RichEd		wiki page is fine ... I just am commenting that it should also be listed next to the download file.
10:02	willvdl		I'm looking on releases.ubuntu.com anyon know where they go?
10:03	ogra		https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyReleaseNotes ?
10:03	willvdl		ogra, meaning RichEd is right, I don't see them on releases.ubuntu.com...
10:04	ogra		no, they arent there
10:04	ogra		probably they should be linked from the html ..
10:04	ogra		colin maintains the template afaik
10:05	willvdl		will check with him
10:06	willvdl		so we maintain r-notes in wiki and the then end up in svn before release so that we have formatted copies right?
10:07	ogra		dunno if there are any formatted copies...
10:07	ogra		i only know the wiki version
10:08	ogra		and thats the one that gets linked from the release announcement etc
10:08	willvdl		kubuntu do it
10:08	willvdl		no big deal. just checking.
10:09	ogra		well, it would make sense to ship them probably ...
10:09	LaserJock	release notes get shipped in the -docs
10:09	ogra		ah
10:09	ogra		now you see how much developers look into docs :P
10:09	LaserJock	we have an old one from jerome in svn alreday
10:10	LaserJock	exactly
10:10	ogra		yep, together with an about page iirc
10:10	willvdl		LaserJock, did Jerome normally handle that?
10:10	LaserJock	long ago
10:10	LaserJock	it's basically unmaintained and dormant
10:10	willvdl		OK. should be easy enough to poach wiki page info
10:11	ogra		btw, jerome was disabled from the council, we should talk about a successor (and elect one at the next EC meeting)
10:12	willvdl		which is next year right?
10:12	LaserJock	should we take nominations?
10:12	sbalneav	What's happened to Jerome?
10:12	highvoltage	sbalneav: his new job consumed him
10:12	willvdl		sbalneav, job is taking time
10:14	willvdl		OK. release notes, no problem
10:14	willvdl		About Edubuntu, looking at it, it appears to be another flavour of the release notes anyway
10:15	LaserJock	should be an ESA doc except maybe less marketing flavored :-)
10:16	willvdl		LaserJock, I struggle to differentiate between R-Notes and About-Ubuntu
10:16	willvdl		in terms of content
10:18	willvdl		ogra, do you write the release notes?
10:18	ogra		usually i add the tech bits
10:19	willvdl		gotcha
10:19	ogra		there were release notes i wrote in the past ...
10:19	ogra		but during the last two releases it was rather an edubuntu doc team effort ...
10:20	willvdl		R-Notes + About E + Handbook should keep us very busy on the tech doc side
10:20	ogra		sounds like
10:20	willvdl		ESA and the related wiki bits are very exciting
10:21	cbx33		heheh
10:21	cbx33		ESA was well planned
10:21	willvdl		sooo many opportunities for it
10:21	cbx33		inderdaad
10:22	cbx33		Artwork?
10:22	cbx33		are we there yet mommy?
10:22	willvdl		ESA should basically become Edubuntu Marketing: covering leaflets etc. to promotional material
10:23	willvdl		what I'm still getting head around is trying to find out where targetted docs for specific audiences would lie... Handbook derivitives? Or ESA?
10:24	cbx33		would lie?
10:24	cbx33		as in storage?
10:24	LaserJock	I'd keep the R-Notes, About E, and Handbook in doc team svn as static docs
10:24	willvdl		storage and in development
10:24	ogra		cbx33, no in "chating the reader"
10:24	LaserJock	and the rest go on the wiki or a edubuntu-marketing bzr repo
10:25	willvdl		LaserJock, agree
10:25	willvdl		ESA is currently in docteam svn
10:26	cbx33		yes
10:26	willvdl		it's something we can plan around. I guess first priority is working on the actual handbook
10:27	willvdl		before looking at what different audiences would want
10:27	cbx33		yes
10:27	cbx33		I'd like to get ESA updated
10:27	LaserJock	yeah, first things first
10:27	cbx33		before feb
10:27	cbx33		well before Jan really
10:27	willvdl		sweet. I got enough info thanks guys
10:27	LaserJock	I'd actually move ESA out of the doc team repo into a bzr repo for edubuntu-marketing
10:27	cbx33		RichEd: what kinda stuff can we get for BETT interms of leaflets etc
10:28	cbx33		LaserJock: sounds good
10:28	RichEd		cbx33: I will be speaking to Chris Kenyon about budget.
10:28	willvdl		LaserJock, cbx33: might be good idea to rename ESA to something more marketingy
10:29	RichEd		We should be able to print our first eduction brochure for a test run at BETT
10:29	cbx33		willvdl: that is the plan
10:29	cbx33		ESA was our internal code name
10:29	cbx33		RichEd: that would be awesome
10:29	cbx33		I'll need that info asap
10:29	cbx33		so I can dedicate time to ESA with will
10:29	willvdl		cbx33 ++ & woot
10:29	cbx33		unless you want Canonical to handle it
10:29	RichEd		Can we do something meaninful with a double sided single page ?
10:29	cbx33		directly
10:29	cbx33		yes
10:30	cbx33		though to me
10:30	cbx33		a trifold stands out more
10:30	RichEd		We'd do a full mock up with text and layout flow.
10:30	willvdl		current ubuntu leaflet is trifold
10:30	cbx33		yeh trifold makes the best impression
10:30	RichEd		And then Chris could run it though the design guys before a final commercial print.
10:31	RichEd		I'd argue though, that given the short timing, we go for a once off test run for BETT.
10:31	willvdl		cbx33 although we do have the templates that Chris and Christina worked on
10:31	cbx33		true
10:31	cbx33		well...you guys know more about marketting than I
10:31	willvdl		(must get updated ones. note to self)
10:32	cbx33		to me.....single sheet means....less effort spent
10:32	willvdl		RichEd, we have a poster design too...
10:32	nixternal	yay, sorry about that, emergency surgery had to be done on my truck before i left tongiht :)
10:33	RichEd		yes ... cbx33 mentioned that
10:33	nixternal	cbx33: i will be working more on the handbook post xmas
10:33	willvdl		showed you in San Fran?
10:34	RichEd		ah that may have been it.
10:34	cbx33		nixternal: nice
10:34	willvdl		nixternal: excellent. looking forward to seeing TBH in action
10:34	RichEd		Pete: how many week days between new year and the show ?
10:34	cbx33		not many
10:35	cbx33		10
10:36	cbx33		i know it's tight
10:36	RichEd		So probably not enough time for the whole formal multiple quotes & proof / approval cycle. I think we should expect to prepare as close to print ready as possible, and then we hava an ad hoc run.
10:36	cbx33		agreed
10:36	cbx33		I'm happy to produce copy etc..........
10:36	willvdl		well we have decent existing work
10:36	cbx33		but probably havn't got the softweare to produce proper print layouts
=== RichEd nods ... to the good existing work ...
10:37	RichEd		cbx33: there should eb ebough time for a final reassemble into print form
10:37	cbx33		so just get it up to date
10:37	cbx33		good good
10:37	RichEd		should be enough
10:37	cbx33		I'll make sure it's finished before Jan 1st
10:38	cbx33		and then you guys can do what you will ;)
10:38	RichEd		cbx33: I'm happy to work on that with you
10:38	cbx33		RichEd: ++
10:38	cbx33		https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuSchoolAdvocacy
10:38	cbx33		here is the WIP for comments suggestions
10:38	cbx33		please read the current ESA and comment
10:38	RichEd		I'll send comments tomorrow some time.
10:38	cbx33		on missing parts
10:38	cbx33		like SCP
10:39	willvdl		which is on doc.ubuntu.com?
10:39	cbx33		hmm
10:39	cbx33		LaserJock: ?
10:39	cbx33		should be
10:39	cbx33		it's in the doc repo
10:39	willvdl		it is
10:39	cbx33		http://doc.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/school-advocacy/C/index.html
10:40	willvdl		got access?
10:40	LaserJock	yeah
10:40	LaserJock	it's on there
10:41	cbx33		ok I just made a change to the wiki
10:41	cbx33		with a new link directly to it
10:41	cbx33		Can someone set us up a bzr tree?
10:42	cbx33		or shall we use svn for now?
10:42	LaserJock	well, if you have a team on LP it's right there
10:42	cbx33		ok
10:42	sbalneav	Somebody set up us the bzr bomb
10:42	sbalneav	What you say?
10:42	cbx33		heh
10:42	cbx33		right docs covered?
10:43	cbx33		I have to shoot fairly soon - would like to get Artwork in before I do
10:43	willvdl		LaserJock, meaning an LP team can just create a bzr branch just like that?
10:44	LaserJock	yeah
10:44	LaserJock	access is limited to people who belong to the team
10:44	LaserJock	write access that is
10:45	willvdl		cool
10:45	willvdl		lets move to artwork?
10:45	cbx33		thanks
10:46	cbx33		well you've all seen the conecpt lisa came up with
10:46	cbx33		thanks also to sbalneav for his idea about MOTD
10:46	cbx33		we'd love some comments on that design
10:46	cbx33		it is _only_ a concept at this stage
10:47	cbx33		but we thought it fresh and bringing a new level of profressionalism to edubuntu
10:47	willvdl		any comments on design? meaning it has a "school" look to it?
10:47	cbx33		yes
10:47	cbx33		and anything relaly
10:48	cbx33		like it
10:48	cbx33		hate it
10:48	cbx33		heheh you decide
10:49	willvdl		I guess usual question of applicability to tertiary ed springs to mind
10:49	cbx33		yeh
10:50	cbx33		anyone else.....we're going to come up with some more ideas/themes soon...
10:50	cbx33		then post to mailing list
10:50	cbx33		hopefully kick start some ideas off there
10:51	willvdl		I guess we can get that debate going in artwork team circles
10:51	LaserJock	mostly what I'd like to see is like 3-4 different themes for preschoo, elementary, and secondary/uni
10:51	LaserJock	I can pick what I like but I'm horrible at making it up from scratch
10:52	willvdl		then admin can apply theme...
10:52	cbx33		LaserJock: that's the plan......remember last release we were just on person
10:52	cbx33		s/on/one
10:52	willvdl		and did good
10:52	cbx33		thanks willvdl ;) - Lisa is happy ;)
10:53	RichEd		anything else anyone ... we are coming up to pumpkin time ...
10:54	cbx33		hehe
10:54	highvoltage	well,
10:54	highvoltage	I've been feeling lost the last bunch of months or so in terms of ubuntu contributions
10:55	highvoltage	but recently I started learning more about debian-installer and ubiquity, and I'm learning a lot from colin
10:55	cbx33		cool
10:55	highvoltage	and really enjoying it.
10:55	RichEd		colin ? colin watson ?
10:55	willvdl		cjwatson
10:56	ogra		RichEd, yes, he's looking for young blood for the installer :)
10:56	RichEd		ahh ....
10:56	cbx33		right you guys done with artwork ?
10:56	cbx33		I'm gonna have to shoot
10:56	cbx33		thanks for all the help guys
10:56	cbx33		I'll do my best to sort out ldm/ESA and anything else I've said I'll do
10:57	highvoltage	so possibly in future releases of ubuntu I could do some installer tweaks if needed
10:57	willvdl		cbx33, great
10:57	highvoltage	(sorry for strange delay, lost my connection there for a while)
10:57	highvoltage	RichEd: yes
10:57	highvoltage	goodnight guys!
10:57	RichEd		highvoltage: it would be useful to keep rodarvus loosley in the installer loop
10:58	cbx33		bye all
10:58	willvdl		ciao
10:58	RichEd		We may need some assistance with the Edubuntu on 2CDs ... ad-on .iso setup.
10:58	highvoltage	ah yes.
10:58	cjwatson	that's not really tightly related to the installer IMO
10:59	cjwatson	CD image building, yes, but the explicit intent of the way we did that spec was to decouple it from installer considerations
10:59	RichEd		cjwatson: but loosely, connected
10:59	cjwatson	I actually don't see how
10:59	cjwatson	we can discuss it later perhaps, I don't mean to derail your meeting, just a point of information
10:59	highvoltage	cjwatson: our meeting pretty much just ended
10:59	willvdl		thanks
10:59	cjwatson	in any case my point is that implementing that spec doesn't require any installer modifications IMO
11:00	highvoltage	we can add it to the next meeting agenda, if needed.
11:00	RichEd		acknowledged. Just terms of making the process smooth and seamless for a user, we want an integration of experience.
11:00	ogra		RichEd, edubuntu ion 2Cds is rather about gnome-app-install integration
11:00	ogra		and update-manager integration ...
11:01	cjwatson	right, when I personally talk about the installer I very specifically mean initial install only, which is how the code is structured
11:01	cjwatson	d-i and ubiquity
11:01	ogra		right ...
=== RichEd was thinking in more general terms about accompanying release / install notes ... and guidance for the user.
11:01	cjwatson	ok, that's not so much what highvoltage has been looking at :)
11:02	highvoltage	RichEd: perhaps table it as a documentation discussion in the next meeting
11:02	RichEd		okay.
11:02	cjwatson	anyway, I only saw this due to a nick highlight, so I'll go away again ;)
11:02	RichEd		thanks ... for paying attention ... not for going away :)
11:02	cjwatson	heh
11:03	RichEd		Well in winding up ... for those of you who are not aware of it, there is a week's break for the company between Xmas and New Year.
11:03	RichEd		So the meeting next week may be sparsely polulated.
11:03	willvdl		cjwatson, that was me :)
11:03	RichEd		*populated
11:03	highvoltage	RichEd: noted.
11:04	highvoltage	RichEd: would it perhaps be wise to postpone next weeks meeting?
11:04	ogra		no, lets just skip it
11:04	RichEd		highvoltage: next week won't be any formal meeting
11:09	willvdl		I'll do minutes again
</pre>
