{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Edubuntu Installations ==
If you are running an Edubuntu server, some workstations or a whole network in your school, university, company or community project then add yourself to the list.

We would also like to encourage you to send in your story at Ubuntu's MyStory page.

-----

=== Yorktown High School, Arlington, VA ===

The <nowiki>[[http://linus.yhspatriot.net/cs|Yorktown High School Computer Science Program]]</nowiki> has been using GNU/Linux for the past 7 years.  During the last 4 years we have been using an LTSP thin client solution, and this year we are using the Edubuntu, the best version of this technology available.

=== Tennants and Workers United, Alexandria, VA ===

The <nowiki>[[http://twsc.org/|Tennants and Workers United]]</nowiki> (TWU) is a democratically controlled, grassroots organization
committed to winning social and economic justice and power for the people of Northern Virginia.

The TWSC Edubuntu center provides community access and training in the use of technology in the interest of community needs.

=== Mount Rainier Public Library, Mount Rainier, MD ===

The <nowiki>[[http://mtrainierfol.org|Friends of the Mount Rainier Library]]</nowiki> has set up an Edubuntu installation for use by patrones of the library.

=== ACTUS computer lab for local community, Poznań, Poland ===

The <nowiki>[[http://www.actus.org.pl/|ACTUS]]</nowiki> has set up a lab for kids and local community based on Edubuntu and LTSP server.

=== IS 52 Inwood Academy, New York, NY ===

Adaliz Gonzalez' Spanish-language, eighth-grade science classroom at IS 52 in Washington Heights is equipped with a small, Edubuntu 5.10 based computer lab. The lab was put together as part of a pilot program by <nowiki>[[http://www.heragroup.org|HERA Group]]</nowiki>, a non-profit organization with a focus on improving lives through science education.

=== HalseyEdAtHome Toccoa GA ===

We are very excited about adding edubuntu to our home education arsenal.  I have been running Fedora for several years and always felt that Linux was a little too complicated for the young.  I am pleased that there is a distro that even my six-year-old son seems to be able to learn and have fun with.

=== Ressu Comprehensive School ===

Ressu Comprehensive School, Helsinki, Finland;  emphasizes the development of children and youth into cooperative, well behaved and honest members of society. Schooling at Ressu gives its pupils a good base for further education, good social skills, and healthy self-esteem. Currently we have edubuntu in  our primary years classes, but we are planning to offer it for the middle years too!

=== Primary school La Futaie in Watermael-Boitsfort, Belgium ===

Primary school La Futaie in Watermael-Boitsfort, Belgium, (École primaire La Futaie à Watermael-Boitsfort, Belgique) is a pionneer school in the use of free software in Belgium, that started in September 2000, with a custom installation of a server running Debian and light terminals using the Plume system. Now, we have moved to Edubuntu for our great satistaction. See http://lafutaie.be

=== Secondary school Les Cerisiers in Gorgier, Switzerland ===

I have installed two small 1server + 2thin clients in two classroom of this school as well as 6 other computers (Kubuntu+educative softwares).
All the rest is under Windows because of the canton's agreement with Microsoft. (canton =~ state)
I hope we will be able to make a larger network (10-15 computers with a bigger server) soon.

=== After-school Clubhouse in Petaluma, California (USA) ===

Utilized 12 existing (aging) desktops and laptops running Windows 95/98 by throwing in a dual PIII-550 (2GB RAM) Edubuntu server, booting via PXE. We later threw in an existing HP Laserjet 1000 series printer on the server so all the kids could print from their thin clients. The clients all run quickly considering the server hardware!!

=== Vassalboro Community School  Vassalboro, Maine (USA) ===

VCS (a school of about 600 users) has had a Linux terminal server network of some sort since 2000-2001.  We began with K12LTSP and have run it for many years, but this year made the complete and total switch to Edubuntu.  We have run the cycle from using older donated and recycled hardware to now using dedicated and very small linux thin-clients that we've purchase with the $$$ we've saved.  Our aim at this point is to become more "green" with regard to electricity and hardware life.  We are a 3 OS School...using Windows (very rarely) from a Windows Terminal Server...accessed via rdesktop from within Edubuntu...Mac OS X laptops (this is a state gov't program for all grade 7 and 8 kids in Maine....and a whole bunch of Linux thin-clients distributed in the lab, library, and classrooms all over the school.  We run two Edubuntu Application Servers in dual DHCP load balancing/failover mode...an Ubuntu server running Samba/LDAP for central authentication and home directories...and more!  We're very happy with Edubuntu!
