{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



KDE 4 version of the Simon electronic memory game

=== Summary ===

Blinken is based on an electronic game released in 1978, which
challenges players to remember sequences of increasing length.  On
the face of the device, there are 4 different color buttons, each
with its own distinctive sound.  These buttons light up randomly,
creating the sequence that the player must then recall.  If the
player is successful in remembering the sequence of lights in the
correct order, they advance to the next stage, where an identical
sequence with one extra step is presented.
 
This package is part of the KDE 4 education module.

=== Technical Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Type
| Educational
|-
| Age Range
| Recommended age range
|-
| Profile
| Edubuntu profile(s) that include this
|-
| Website
| http://edu.kde.org/
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/blinken
|-
| License
| License(s) the application is available under
|-
| Language
| C++, C
|-
| Toolkit
| KDE, QT
|}

=== Screenshots ===

{{http://screenshots.debian.net/screenshot/blinken|blinken Screenshot}}

If a screen shot is not available, submit your own according to the debian screenshot <nowiki>[[http://screenshots.debian.net/upload|guidelines]]</nowiki>.

=== User Comments ===

This space is for users to share their experiences and opinions about the application
