{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Site-Map for the Edubuntu Wiki ==

* <nowiki>[[Edubuntu]]</nowiki> - Front page

** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Wiki]]</nowiki> - About the Edubuntu Wiki, how to use it and how to contribute
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Wiki-SiteMap]]</nowiki> - A Site-Map for the Edubuntu Wiki
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Wiki-Cleanup]]</nowiki> - The process of cleaning out old pages from the wiki
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Wiki-Archive]]</nowiki> - Old pages kept for archival reasons

** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community]]</nowiki> - Front page for community. No real ''meaty'' info, provides links to relevant sub-sections
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-Communication]]</nowiki> - List of communication channels from IRC to MLs
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-Teams]]</nowiki> - Redirects to <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad-Teams]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-GetInvolved]]</nowiki> - How to get involved in Edubuntu development work.
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-Photos]]</nowiki> - Photos of events, people or projects
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-MeetingAgenda]]</nowiki> - Info for the weekly meeting
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-MeetingRecords]]</nowiki> - Minutes for the weekly meeting
*** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Community-MeetingRecords-Archive]]</nowiki> - Archived minutes for the weekly meeting

** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad]]</nowiki> - Front page for Launchpad usage in Edubuntu. No real ''meaty'' info, provides links to relevant sub-sections
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad-Teams]]</nowiki> - Teams in Edubuntu and how they fit into Launchpad
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad-ProjectsAndProducts]]</nowiki> - Project & products in Edubuntu and how they fit into Launchpad
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad-Usage]]</nowiki> - How Edubuntu uses Launchpad. Not much technical info, since Launchpad help should have that.
  
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Documentation]]</nowiki> - Landing page for the different documentation projects within Edubuntu
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Documentation-Handbook]]</nowiki> - scope, aim and info about the handbook
*** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Documentation-Handbook-Planning]]</nowiki> - project management and status tracking

** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Devel]]</nowiki> - Landing page for Edubuntu development info: not only technical (testing, status & tracking) but also for community, web, wiki...
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Devel-RoadMap]]</nowiki> - Main page for the development roadmap. It should always be current and will not be tagged per release.

** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-DownloadRedirect]]</nowiki> - redirects to www.edubuntu.org/Download, purely to keep front page look 'n feel
** <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-ShipItRedirect]]</nowiki> - redirects to shipit.edubuntu.org, purely to keep front page look 'n feel
----
CategoryEdubuntu
