{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* The Edubuntu Council oversees Edubuntu, providing technical guidance, community governance, and ensuring the health of the project.
* Launchpad Home: https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-council
* Community Council Delegate: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncil/Delegation
* A mailing-list exists for the edubuntu-council at https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-council but it should only be used for those very few cases where a private conversation with the council needs to happen. For any other discussions, please use the public IRC channel (#edubuntu) or one of the two public mailing-lists.

==== EC Members 2011/2012 ====

* Jonathan Carter (highvoltage)
* Stéphane Graber (stgraber)
* Scott Balneaves (sbalneav)
* Alkis Georgopoulos (alkisg)
* Marc Gariépy (mgariepy)

A quorum shall consist of 3 EC members.

==== EC Charter ====

The Edubuntu Council will:

* Normally consist of at least 5 members;
* Be nominated by ~ubuntu-members and;
* Be voted in by ~edubuntu-members with supervision by the Community Council;
* Have a quorum of at least half the members plus one additional member;
* Have regular meetings that will be held publicly in #ubuntu-meeting;
* Serve for 2 years, elections will run a month before EC members expire.
* Have a rotating chairman for each EC meeting based alphabetically on IRC nickname, in the event of a split vote the chairman will have an additional vote.

==== Role of Edubuntu Council ====

* Technical aspects of Edubuntu:
** Release management
** Feature specification approval

* Community aspects of Edubuntu:
** Approval of new Edubuntu Member applications (during EC meetings, normally every two weeks)
** Conflict resolution and escalation to Community Council
** Reporting to the Community Council
** Maintain the various Edubuntu LP Teams

==== Meetings ====

Edubuntu meetings take place every Wednesday at 19:00 UTC. When there are issues requiring the attention of the council it is also made an Edubuntu Council meeting. Please refer to our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Edubuntu/Meetings/Agenda|Meetings Page]]</nowiki> for more information.

==== Reporting ====

The Edubuntu Council shall send a report to the Community Council after any EC meeting introducing new members and summarizing any other decisions and actions that have been taken.

==== Elections ====

For Edubuntu Council elections, the Edubuntu Council will announce it publicly trough the Edubuntu mailing lists and the Fridge.
Ubuntu members will be able to make nominations by contacting the Edubuntu council. The Edubuntu Council will then forward the list of nominees to the Community Council. The Community Council will set up a vote for Edubuntu Members on Launchpad and announce the results of the election. In the case where the new Edubuntu Council member is not an Edubuntu Member, they will receive Edubuntu Membership concurrently.

----
CategoryEdubuntu
