{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



mindmapping tool

=== Summary ===

Vym is a mind mapping program. It is useful to organize thoughts and
do structure work. In addition to that it has a lot of helpful
shortcuts.
 
A mindmap is a multicolored and image centered radial diagram that
represents semantic or other connections between portions of learned
material.  For example, it can graphically illustrate the structure
of a thesis outline, a project plan, or the government institutions
in a state.  Mindmaps have many applications in personal, family,
educational, and business situations.  Possibilities include
note-taking, brainstorming, summarizing, revising and general
clarifying of thoughts.

=== Technical Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Type
| kde
|-
| Age Range
| Recommended age range
|-
| Profile
| Edubuntu profile(s) that include this
|-
| Website
| http://www.insilmaril.de/vym/
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/vym
|-
| License
| License(s) the application is available under
|-
| Language
| C++, C
|-
| Toolkit
| QT
|}

=== Screenshots ===

{{http://screenshots.debian.net/screenshot/vym|vym Screenshot}}

If a screen shot is not available, submit your own according to the debian screenshot <nowiki>[[http://screenshots.debian.net/upload|guidelines]]</nowiki>.

=== User Comments ===

This space is for users to share their experiences and opinions about the application
