{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

The current User admin tool from GNOME isn't really suited to managing larger numbers of users, as one would get at a school or classrooms.  What's needed is a simple, extensible user management tool.

=== Release Note ===

Having a good user management tool will make handling classroom situations much better for "non-professional" admins.

=== Rationale ===

Current tools:
* Don't allow sorting by groups.
* Don't allow adding users to LDAP via the same interface
* Arent't extensible by users to add "custom" actions needed in per-installation use cases.

=== User stories ===

TBA

=== Assumptions ===

* We'd like this tool to be extendable by users with scripts.
* Written in python for maintainability.
* Should get user and group information via getent() calls, for compatibility with LDAP environments.
* Should include a bulk import feature.
* Should do as little as possible natively in the interface, and use it's own plugin architecture for anything "non standard" or "distro-specific"

=== Design ===

* Interface:
** Two tabs: users and groups.
** 4 side buttons each: add, remove, modify, migrate/backup.
** Hitting "Add" allows for adding a single user or group.
** Multi-select works for remove.
** selecting a user/group and hitting "Modify" will allow you to change some things about that user/group.
** "Bulk Import" menu item
* Backend
** GNU/Linux already has a perfectly good way to add/remove users/groups locally to the system.  The "adduser" family of commands.
** config file will, by default, ship with config lines like:
**** <code>Adduser Command = adduser --home %h --shell %s --uid %U .... %u</code> where %h, %s, %U %u, etc are filled in with values entered in the "add users" dialog box.
** If you want system to do LDAP commands, you simply have to provide a script of some kind (i.e. like in the <code>ldapscripts</code> package) and modify the config file.
** To populate the list boxes for users and groups, use getent() calls, so that if box us set up for ldap nss, things will work as expected with no modification.
* Plugins
** 4 sets of directories:
*** <code>/usr/share/newtool/userplugins.d</code>
*** <code>/usr/share/newtool/groupplugins.d</code>
*** <code>/usr/local/share/newtool/userplugins.d</code>
*** <code>/usr/local/share/newtool/groupplugins.d</code>
** /usr/share dirs are for "package shipped" plugins
** /usr/local/share are for local sysadmins to drop locally defined plugins in.
** Multi select users or groups, right click ->
*** context menu appears, listing the package supplied plugins, then a line, then any user-supplied plugins.
*** user plugins are called as /bin/sh -c userplugin user1 <user2...> for each user selected in the list.
*** group plugins similar.
*** Plugin's responsibility to look up any other information it needs (i.e. homedir of user1, etc.)

=== Implementation ===

Post lucid.

==== UI Changes ====

New program, won't replace regular management tool, but should appear in the "administration" menu.

==== Code Changes ====

None.

==== Migration ====

Not known at this time.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

How to handle being able to add to BOTH local database AND LDAP?

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
