{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting August 8, 2007 ==
This is the Edubuntu Team Meeting, started on 08 August 2007, 02H00 - 03H00.

== Attendance ==

* orca
* RichEd
* highvoltage
* pips1
* Riddell
* cliebow_

== Agenda ==

* Technical
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week

* Documentation
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
    
* Art Work
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
    
* Web Sites
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
   
* Community
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
   
* Management & Planning
** Progress over past week
** Issues/ Blocks
** Planned Activities for coming week
   
* Any other Matters Arising

== Minutes ==

* Artwork: Nothing to report. Will wait until next week.
* Documentation: Nothing to report.
* Website / Community Items: Bill Hilf (head of Open Source at MSFT) has mailed me after meeting (bumping into) Mark Shuttleworth at OSCON in Portland. '''Action:''' RichEd will phone Bill Hilf and discuss collaboration.

== Any Other Business ==

* RichEd noted that at the previous Edubuntu meeting it was discussed and agreed to separate the original 2 hour meeting as per the mail lists into edubuntu-devel and edubuntu-users. '''Action:''' RichEd needs to get a wiki page up for discussion.

== IRC Logs ==

<pre>
02:04	RichEd	and ogra kicks off with TECH
02:04	ogra	yeah
02:04	ogra	i'll try to keep it as shoprt as possible
02:04	ogra	mostly we had ltsp code merges last week ...
02:04	ogra	new ldm is in since 5.0.22
02:05	ogra	i'm preparing tribe4 since monday ....
02:05	ogra	sadly there is a bug (apparently in apt) that prevents ltsp clients from building on the server CD
02:06	ogra	beyond that the liveCD is heavily oversized ... sadly digging for the server CD breakage didnt leave me time to investigate that yet
02:06	ogra	so i'm not sure we'll make tribe4 at all
02:06	ogra	thats it ...
02:06	RichEd	ogra: what are the consequencesof missing tribe 4 ?
02:06	ogra	less testing
02:07	ogra	less feedback
02:07	ogra	i'll try to make it happen, but currently its not clear what the exact bug is
02:07	highvoltage	so if the tribe 4 deadline is missed, there won't be a tribe 4 for edubuntu?
02:07	ogra	without knowing we cant fix ...
02:07	RichEd	and will you be able to get it right for tribe 5 ?
02:07	ogra	sure
02:07	RichEd	okay ... good :)
02:07	ogra	but i wouldnt like o go without tribe4
02:08	ogra	deadline is tomorrow ...
02:08	pips1	what's the status with the moodle packaging ?
02:08	ogra	so there is still hope :)
02:08	ogra	pips1, moquist knows about freeze dates and works on it
02:08	pips1	ic
02:08	ogra	http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=6347
02:09	ogra	hrm
02:09	ogra	revu seems down
02:09	Riddell	it is
02:09	ogra	on a side note i discovered this horrible doc: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/TroubleShooting
02:09	highvoltage	ogra: I think it's down along with the other community sites (like the loco teams)
02:10	ogra	which shocked me quite a bit ...
02:10	ogra	especially:
02:10	ogra	We've found some bugs in a number of components in the Ubuntu LTSP kit, hopefully some of the developers will take a look at this page at some point and possibly integrate some of our fixes back into the mix. Until then however, below we detail how we got around some of the more interesting issues.
02:11	ogra	most of these "helpful" things are just using the defaults we use anyway ...
02:11	ogra	others like the sound hack are just utterly wrong
02:11	highvoltage	how did that get into help.ubuntu.com? and who wrote it?
02:11	ogra	it has a history
02:12	ogra	what worries me most about it is that it exists since 2006
02:12	ogra	created under the assumption "some developer will see it"
02:12	cliebow_	hmmm
02:13	highvoltage	heh, so they basically filed 'bugs' on help.ubuntu.com. how bizzarre.
02:13	ogra	which i didnt until someone asked me about it in support this week
02:13	ogra	a) they filed bugs in the wiki
02:13	ogra	b) they gave wronmg solutions
02:13	ogra	(which is not remarkable since no dev ever saw that page :P)
02:15	ogra	i'm not sure what top do with that page now ... i dont want to wipe others work ... in bug reports i would have responded to tehm properly ...
02:15	cliebow_	perhaps a disclaimer??
02:15	ogra	yeah
02:16	highvoltage	ogra: well, it's clearly not of much use, shouldn't it just be deleted with a reference to the correct documentation?
02:16	ogra	hmm, probably
02:17	ogra	but i'd also like to prevent such stuff from happening somehow
02:18	highvoltage	I thought there was some kind of process for moving pages to help.ubuntu.com from the wiki
02:18	ogra	we need to make launchpad more prominent in the community somehow
02:19	highvoltage	ogra: for support?
02:19	highvoltage	oh, and for bugs, of course
02:19	ogra	yeah
02:19	ogra	bugs mostly
=== RichEd thinks that a clear way of moving / guiding and advising what can be found where will be useful
02:20	ogra	all ltsp devs are autosubscribed to the ltsp bugs now ... so proper bugfiling gains better answers indeed
02:20	RichEd	(which sites) it is a bit confusing for some people
02:20	cliebow_	be nice to make an obvious index
02:21	ogra	https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltsp/+filebug is the general ltsp bug url ...
02:22	pips1	yes, and the wikis are open... for wikipedia, I think there is always at least one person who "claims" a topic, but in technical documentation, people don't feel attached / "own" an article. at best, the write it down and forget it... :-/
02:22	ogra	well, i'm subscribed to UbuntuLTSP on help.ubunru.com
02:23	ogra	but that page wasnt added to the index ever
02:23	pips1	wiki = low barrier for entry, but no real quality control either..
02:23	ogra	(index being https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP in that case)
02:24	pips1	i.e. you can't guarantee that someone applies the proper tag (UbuntuLTSP)
02:24	ogra	pips1, well, h.u.c is just a wiki as well
02:25	pips1	doesn't h.u.c have locked pages... erm, no, different altogehter... i thought it was static html pages created from versioned docbook files?
02:25	ogra	might be, but apparently every ubuntu member can edit it ...
02:26	ogra	it == content
02:26	pips1	ah
02:26	ogra	for me it doesnt behave differently than the wiki while using it
02:27	highvoltage	that's interesting, I thought only docteam members could. I just logged in to doc.ubuntu.com for the first time and noticed I can edit. that's quite cool.
02:27	pips1	right, you are talking about the 'community' part of help.ubuntu.com...
02:27	pips1	https://help.ubuntu.com/community/
02:27	ogra	rigth
02:27	pips1	oh, they must have changed that?
02:28	pips1	I didn't know that any person can edit h.u.c/community ... I only thought that only doc.u.c is editable by anyone
02:29	ogra	i wonder what makes it different to wiki.u.c then ...
02:29	ogra	its the same but different url ... so we have two places for docs
02:30	pips1	doc.u.c is supposed to be the drafting place for documentation and help.u.c the "approved" documentation...?!
02:30	ogra	well
02:30	ogra	h.u.c/comminty == second wiki.u.c
02:31	ogra	*community
02:31	ogra	thats just scattering info over various places ...
02:31	ogra	anyway, lets not hold up the meeting with that now
02:32	ogra	tech done (in case nobody has questions)
02:32	RichEd	artwork ... any progress with our new volunteer ?
02:32	ogra	she seems not here
02:33	RichEd	she's based in the US ... so I think the other meeting time is better for her
02:33	RichEd	we'll check next week ...
02:34	RichEd	documentation ?
02:35	RichEd	anyone ?
02:36	highvoltage	nothing I can think of
02:36	RichEd	okay ... pips1 any web site / community items for today ?
02:37	RichEd	from my side, on a bizarre community related note ... Bill Hilf (head of Open Source at MSFT) has mailed me after meeting (bumping into) Mark Shuttleworth at OSCON in Portland.
02:38	pips1	RichEd nothing except for the update i told you about already
02:38	RichEd	he wants a call & a chat to see how we can collaborate ...
=== RichEd will chat to him, but will be very wary ... and cautious
02:38	cliebow_	MSFT:that what i think it might be?
02:39	pips1	what is the FT part?
02:39	RichEd	indeed mr cliebow_
02:39	cliebow_	8~)
02:39	RichEd	that's the stock exchange abbreviation ...
02:39	pips1	oh ic
02:39	RichEd	so I use it as better than quoting the full name ... and not as emotiona as all the M$ approach
02:40	RichEd	*emotional
02:40	RichEd	---
02:40	RichEd	On a final note from my side:
02:40	RichEd	to fill the others in on the discussion last week:
02:40	RichEd	We're more or less agreed to separate the original 2 hour meeting as per the mail lists:
02:40	RichEd	into edubuntu-devel and edubuntu-users ...
02:40	RichEd	LaserJock has been making good suggestions ...
02:41	RichEd	we're still haggling about
02:41	RichEd	* how long each meeting needs to be
02:41	RichEd	* the exact agenda points
02:41	highvoltage	RichEd: I've been wondering, have you ever considered an education meeting too?
02:41	RichEd	highvoltage: the users will be education
02:41	highvoltage	ok
02:41	RichEd	it will have "using Edubuntu" topics
02:41	RichEd	as well as "teaching / content" etc
=== RichEd needs to get a wiki page up for discussion ... but I missed that for this week
02:42	RichEd	will try to get it up over the weekend
02:42	RichEd	(for the new agenda ... with items to prompt discussion)
02:42	RichEd	we'll try out the new structure next week ... i'll separate the meetings on the fridge schedule along with new agenda page
02:42	RichEd	we'll also announce each meeting each week, and call for discussion topics
02:42	RichEd	especially the user meeting
02:42	RichEd	LaserJock suggests we have a weekly problems and suggestions slot in the user-meeting to get feedback and direction
02:42	RichEd	and get the user community to feel that we care about their issues, and listen
02:43	RichEd	and also encourage schools / teachers to create shared projects ...
02:43	RichEd	and help with our communit needs
02:43	RichEd	*community
02:43	RichEd	^ comments
02:43	RichEd	^ suggestions ?
02:44	cliebow_	moodle support is a big step that way
02:44	RichEd	I'm happy to put this into a mail and send to the two mailing lists
02:44	RichEd	---
02:44	RichEd	that's all from me for today
02:45	RichEd	anyone else with topics ? or agenda items ?
02:45	RichEd	if not we can wrap and allow ogra to get back to his tribe issue
02:45	highvoltage	nope, except that if anyone needs me for anything, please send me a message, and I'll try to help.
02:45	ogra	help testing ! (in case i ever get the iso working proper)
02:45	pips1	RichEd: nothing for the meeting, note, I'll send you that email about the update in a sec
02:45	highvoltage	ogra: righto
02:46	highvoltage	ogra: if an iso works, please ping me, I have good bandwidth now and can sync quite easily
02:46	RichEd	ogra: I'm busy setting up that test notebook next to me now ... so I can help
02:46	ogra	cool !
=== RichEd is having screen issues :(
02:46	RichEd	old mecer
02:47	ogra	i'll send a ping to #edubuntu if i have something working
02:47	RichEd	--- going once then
02:47	RichEd	--- going twice then
02:47	highvoltage	*BONG*
02:47	RichEd	thrice ...
02:47	RichEd	thanks all
02:47	ogra	RichEd, i bet gutsy would solve the screen issues ... new intel drivers all over there
</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
