{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting November 23, 2005 ==
<pre>
01:00	JaneW	hi all
01:01	juliux	hi
01:01	JaneW	**roll call**
=== mhz [n=mhz_chil@moinmoin/fan/mhz] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== Pazzo [n=Pazzo@host130-250.pool8172.interbusiness.it] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:01	JaneW	I'll note who was at each meeting so that if decision are taken, we'll have a record of who participated in them
01:02	Simira	morning JaneW
01:02	JaneW	hi Simira
=== mhz is here, alive and kicking
01:02	JaneW	so if you want to be listed say 'here' now
01:02	mhz	JaneW: hi Ms. Cakes
=== JaneW notes the silence ;)
01:03	JaneW	hi mhz
01:03	ogra	here
01:03	juliux	JaneW, here
01:03	ogra	:)
01:03	ogra	where is flint
=== kjcole [n=kjcole@pchb1f.gallaudet.edu] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:03	mhz	everybosy say 'here' and put your hands in the air
=== Seveas waves
01:03	crimsun	here
01:03	juliux	but i cann't promise that i can be at all meetings  because 12 UTC isn't a goog time for students
=== kjcole is Kevin Cole
01:04	JaneW	hi kjcole
01:04	mhz	juliux: but yor are not a student... you are an ubuntu memeber :)
01:04	spacey	hi
01:04	juliux	mhz, argh
01:04	mhz	hehehe
01:04	kjcole	Well, I want a reasonable New York time... or we'll invade your country and bring "freedom and democracy". ;-)
01:05	mhz	kjcole: lol
01:05	Seveas	spoken like a true Bush :)
01:05	juliux	kjcole, lol
01:05	mhz	you have already
01:05	juliux	kjcole, come on, i will wait for you here
01:05	kjcole	We'll do it again! And get it right THIS time... for sure!!!
01:05	juliux	*g*
01:05	mhz	juliux: maybe you could play some german experiments on kjcole
01:05	mhz	:)
01:06	juliux	mhz, we have in germany something thats called "suse"
01:06	mhz	juliux: LOL!!
01:06	kjcole	Noooooo!
=== ogra wonders what "german experiments" might be
01:06	mhz	ogra: simply adding lemon juice to his wounds will do
01:06	spacey	JaneW, here :>
01:06	juliux	ogra, merkel?
=== flint [n=flint@68-233-75-86.sbtnvt.adelphia.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:06	ogra	ah, yes, suse ... but thats not german anymore ;)
01:06	mhz	indeed
01:07	ogra	juliux, thats no experiment... thats simply just sucking
01:07	ogra	hey flint
01:07	kjcole	Mr. Flint... You just missed me being an Ugly American.
01:07	juliux	ogra, ok
01:07	ogra	morning
01:07	flint	ya it is morman...
01:07	juliux	hey flint
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
=== dirkvdbroek [n=c1000@82-170-229-42.dsl.ip.tiscali.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:07	mhz	hi there flint
01:07	kjcole	Jeff Elkner said last night he'd be joining us this morning...
01:07	mhz	wow, more people!
01:07	flint	oh god.. it is early, hi kevin it is snowing in vermont...
=== jelkner [n=jelkner@dsl092-236-069.phl1.dsl.speakeasy.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:08	ogra	kjcole, he's in #edubuntu
01:08	mhz	flint: unveliebalbe, its raining in Chile (this never happens in this time of year)
01:08	ogra	heh, speaking of the devil
01:08	mhz	flint: maybe it is Day After tomorrow's efect
01:08	flint	mhz, hey dude.
01:08	mhz	hip
01:08	ogra	JaneW, do we have something like an agenda ?
01:09	jelkner	kjcole: i'm here now (thanks to ogra)
01:09	flint	mhz, it is beautiful anyway, what is up Jane?
01:09	mhz	indeed
=== jsgotangco [n=jsg@ubuntu/member/jsgotangco] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:09	mhz	jsgotangco: wb
01:09	flint	hey jeff!
01:09	jelkner	hey paul!
=== jsgotangco accidentally closed client
01:10	mhz	jsgotangco: was playing games again? :D
=== jsgotangco playing guild wars atm
=== ogra wonders if JaneW's line dropped again ....
01:10	mhz	heheh
01:10	ogra	seems common at this time of day
01:10	jelkner	so what's on the agenda?
=== jane_ [n=JaneW@wbs-146-151-44.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:10	ogra	heh
01:10	kjcole	Jeff, after this meeting I'm at the Accessabilty/Special Needs meeting... (Different Bat-Time, Same Bat-Channel)
01:11	ogra	wb jane
01:11	mhz	ogra: you are a geniuos
01:11	Seveas	ogra was right :)
01:11	flint	morning Jane...
01:11	mhz	Seveas: no wonder he's Mr. Edubuntu
01:11	jsgotangco	kjcole: what time is that?
01:11	jane_	hi, what was the last thing I said that went through - please
=== jsgotangco thought this was the a11y meeting
01:11	kjcole	Was supposed to be one hour from now, but the fridge says two.
01:11	ogra	jane_, should we move the meeting times a bit ? your line dropps every meeting around this time :)
01:11	mhz	jane_: you said hi
01:11	mhz	:)
01:11	jsgotangco	we'll have to wait for henrik then or dholbach
01:11	Seveas	a11y is at 14:30 utc - it is 12:11 utc now...
01:12	jane_	ogra: I know, it;s damn annoying!
01:12	ogra	jsgotangco, this is edubuntu .... we'll have another one later
=== jane_ is going to repeat comments...
01:12	mhz	jane_: if you need me, i can go there and kick your ISP butt
01:12	jsgotangco	ok (im supposed to be here anyways)
=== ealden [n=Martin@210.213.71.153] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:12	jane_	Ok in order to make the session a bit more structured and make note taking quicker and easier let's try to stick to the following format for each meeting:
01:13	jane_	We have following categories: Technical,
01:13	jane_	, Documentation
01:13	dholbach	i'm here too :)
01:13	jane_	, Art Work
01:13	jane_	, Community, Management etc
01:13	jane_	let me know if there are others required...
01:13	jane_	for each of these let's work though:  Progress in last week, Issues/Blocks, Planned Activities for next week.
01:13	ogra	looks fine to me
01:13	mhz	jane_: Social
01:13	jane_	we can also discuss requirements for additional meetings in any of these areas
01:13	jane_	Ideally I'd like for each category to have a leader, or representative, who will discuss it
01:13	ogra	mhz, community
01:13	mhz	jane_: I meant education
01:13	jsgotangco	Social is community imo
01:13	jane_	is there agreement on this?
01:14	jane_	hi dholbach
01:14	kjcole	Aye.
01:14	mhz	ogra: would education be community too?
01:14	jelkner	you're the boss, jane
01:14	jsgotangco	basically
01:14	flint	jane, what about educational as a category?
01:14	mhz	flint: thx
01:14	ogra	mhz, hat specific educational things would you like to discuss ?
01:14	jane_	I also mentioned that I will note who is present at each meeting, so that we have a record and know who partook in decision etc...
01:14	flint	elkner is such a suckup...
01:15	mhz	ogra: mainly, teachers work, students work, schools needs, etc
01:15	mhz	ogra: or maybe they are Technical ?
01:15	jelkner	i have a number of educational things i would like to discuss, but i think they are dapper+1
01:15	flint	JaneW, the idea here is to develop coursework, but also as part of an operational category
01:15	jane_	ok so we will start each week as usual with Oli, and hopefully his growing dev team on the technical, progress, issues and plans
01:16	jelkner	mhz: it looks like the broader educational goals of edubuntu need to wait until after dapper
01:16	ogra	mhz, i think they spread over the other categories
01:16	mhz	flint: indeed. We'll start desingning training courses for teachers
01:16	jane_	flint: I am not sure we are in aposition to develop course work at this stage
01:16	mhz	flint: we = in chiel
01:16	mhz	flint: we = in chile
01:16	jane_	flint: we are still building a framework.
01:16	mhz	jelkner: okis
01:16	flint	na, you have a released product.  
01:17	spacey	jane_, presence here:)
01:17	jane_	thanks space
01:17	jane_	y
01:17	mhz	jane_: IIUC, we'll start with Technical?
=== spacey herman
01:17	ogra	ok, lets get started, my technical report is small this time ... i was busy with ubuntu stuff last week, but the Cd builds have started and i was promised a live filesystem for the liveCD this week
01:17	spacey	:P
01:18	jane_	ogra: and are you expecting it to build and work already ?:)
01:18	ogra	i havent done much with ltsp the last week, but have started a little tool in my sparetime for managing ltsp setups
01:18	flint	...as opposed to a dead file systen :^(  I am all for that :^)
01:18	ogra	http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/LTSPManager/
01:18	flint	ogra, what and why a live file system?
01:19	kjcole	Flint, for a LiveCD...
01:19	ogra	if you want to test the CD, have a look at the report of the current build
01:19	ogra	http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/daily/current/report.html
01:19	spacey	ogra, looks fancy :)
01:19	ogra	if its empty, it will most likely work
01:19	flint	ogra, kjcole, oh yea, still sleepy...
01:20	ogra	note that the CD depends on ubuntu, so if there is breakage at a low level in ubuntu, it will affect many packages
01:20	jelkner	ogra: wow, oliver, that looks cool!
01:20	ogra	feel free to contribute ;)
=== pippo [n=pippovic@p85.212.17.155.tisdip.tiscali.de] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:21	ogra	flint, the live FS will be the base for the liveCD
01:21	mhz	ogra: wow, nice work
01:21	ogra	it will contain only the workstation install, no server parts yet
01:21	flint	ogra, Gotcha... thanks.
01:22	mhz	ogra: i agree WS are more important here
01:22	ogra	but if ltsp manager might oonce work, we could ship it on the livecd together with the ltsp packages and it would be easy to setup
01:22	mhz	atm
01:22	mhz	indeed
01:22	flint	so you can use the live cd to boot a workstation?
01:22	ogra	but since i do it in my sparetime i'm not sure if it can make dapper ... if not some contributors step up
01:23	ogra	flint, you can use the liveCD as you use a ubuntu livecd
01:23	ogra	just with the edubuntu desktop on top
01:23	flint	gotcha... that talk of workstation confused me in my pre-coffee state.
01:24	ogra	i mean the workstation install we offer on the install CD :)
01:24	mhz	flint: hehehe
01:24	ogra	my tech plans for next week:
01:25	ogra	* getting ldm changed to please mdz's requirements
01:25	ogra	(he's not yet happy with my code)
01:25	ogra	* getting the sound stuff implemented completely ..
01:25	flint	go ollie!
01:25	ogra	* finishing the spects
01:26	ogra	* having our first liveCD build
01:26	ogra	s/spects/specs
01:26	jsgotangco	yay
01:26	mhz	ogra: you know you have one "pain_in_the_back_ tester here
01:27	mhz	ogra: thx for such load of work
01:27	ogra	oh, and * doing some etherboot tests, it seems to become a problem that it wasnt tested proerly
01:27	jane_	ogra: any issues/blocks?
01:27	ogra	jane_, only mdz and his eagle eyes that find the bugs in my code ;)
01:27	flint	mhz, ogra, I expect to be testing in my new lab in 1 week.
01:28	jane_	ogra: LOL
01:28	ogra	sound is merely done, just needs the code around it ...
01:29	ogra	liveCd is mostly done by others, i only have to care for it to be done (indeed i want to know more about theprocess to be able to do this myself, but thats not relevant for the current CD)
01:29	mhz	ogra: what yo mean by "etherboot tests, it seems to become a problem that it wasnt tested proerly"?
01:29	mhz	ogra: others such as highvoltage?
=== Hirion [n=Hirion@p5487F79F.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:29	ogra	we have no proper solution for etherboot (nobody tested it for breezy) and the amount of support quetions wrt etherboot raises
=== hbos [n=osso@flits101-191.flits.rug.nl] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
01:30	kjcole	(FYI: 12:30 UTC...)
01:30	ogra	i got some etherboot cards at ubz, but havent worked with them yet, so setting up a client and do some tests is on my agenda for next week
=== Adri2000 [n=Adri2000@lns-bzn-37-82-253-38-250.adsl.proxad.net] has left #ubuntu-meeting ["ByeBye"]
01:31	ogra	thats all from the tech side for now, any questions ?
01:32	juliux	ogra, the skolelinux people use eherboot i think
01:32	ogra	juliux, yes, with ltsp 4.something
01:32	jane_	guys please look at http://wiki.edubuntu.org/MeetingRecords and see if this format is useful
01:32	juliux	ogra, and there will be some of them in essen so you/we can talk with them
01:32	jane_	nothe that I am editing, so please don;t try to edit NOW
01:32	ogra	juliux, that wont help
01:32	juliux	ogra, ok i will be quite
01:33	ogra	juliux, they are different implementations ... i need to find the right solution for our implementation
01:33	juliux	ogra, ah ok
01:33	ogra	which should be straight forward, once i have the HW set up :)
01:34	kjcole	jane_, lots to read there, but at a quick skim, the MeetingRecords look pretty good.
01:35	jane_	kjcole: focus on the tables near the top for now, that's the change
01:35	mhz	jane_: wow! that takes time to wiki it! Thx. I would be ok with it, too, if it were only lisitings :)
01:35	flint	jane_, how did you generate the outline.  That is very cool.
01:35	jane_	I am thinking it's easier to skim through than a wad of notes
01:35	jane_	flint: my copius wiki knowledge ;)
01:35	flint	jane_, indeed!
01:36	jelkner	jane_: looks great
01:36	jane_	mhz: thanks for all your testing and other help
01:36	mhz	jane_: np, I love what I do :)
01:36	jane_	ogra: so are all your items covered in the table?
01:36	ogra	yup
01:36	ogra	looks good
01:36	crimsun	ogra: I'll ping you post-meeting RE: sound (read the spec on earlier)
01:36	kjcole	jane_ clear, concise... I like it.
01:37	ogra	crimsun, the spec isnt accurate yet ...
01:37	mhz	jane_: however, i'd suggest that for your own time saving sake, you think of listing over tabling (in this current Moin version. Next will include 100% WYSIWYG editor)
01:38	jane_	mhz: cool, cos table editting in moin suck atm!
01:38	mhz	and so tables will be easier to deal with
01:38	mhz	jane_: exactly!!!
01:38	mhz	lol
01:38	jane_	mhz: but I handled the BreezyGoals table, so I can do anything ;P
01:38	ogra	heh
01:38	mhz	jane_: current Moin beta already supports it
01:38	jane_	ok, do we have a doc team person here today?
01:39	mhz	jane_: indeed, you grok Moin syntax
01:39	ogra	jsgotangco is here
01:39	jsgotangco	aye
01:39	jane_	hi jsgotangco :)
01:39	kjcole	mhz, oh? Do tell! (Time for me to install the beta.)
01:39	jane_	jsgotangco: are you still our man for Dapper?
=== mhz is just a wiki person. still no docbook skills)
01:39	ogra	there was a request for a "where to purchase" webpage
01:39	jsgotangco	jane_: hi :) sorry just got to talk to cvd over the phone
01:39	jane_	jsgotangco: hope we haven;t list you to the worl of cell phone gaming....
01:39	jane_	world even
01:40	mhz	kjcole: you'll love it
01:40	jsgotangco	jane_: i'm always your man
01:40	jane_	ogra: oh right, ok I'll add that
01:40	jsgotangco	jane_: but i believe some people have started some stuff
01:40	jsgotangco	like kjcole and elkner
01:40	jsgotangco	?
01:40	jane_	ogra: any news on CD prints from your contact?
=== kjcole finally installed Edubuntu (and am underslept), and have started fooling with docbook in earnest.
01:40	jsgotangco	i'll be happy to help them out on the docbook conversion stuff
01:40	jsgotangco	kjcole: you can focus on the writing...
01:41	jane_	yes kjcole and jelkner how's that cookbook?
01:41	jelkner	kjcole and i are meeting to start on the book next week
01:41	ogra	jane_, not yet \sh is meeting him more often ...
01:41	jane_	jelkner: awesome :))
01:41	ogra	jane_, i know he already has edubuntu for sale in his online shop
=== kjcole has also put in a small handful of documentation bugs for the current stuff into launchpad.
01:41	mhz	jane_: sorry, is lightweight, Technical?
01:41	jsgotangco	sure
01:41	jane_	ogra: really? and how is it packaed?
01:41	\sh	aeh...someone pinged me?
01:41	ogra	\sh, amu and CD sales
01:41	jane_	mhz: lightweight?
01:42	ogra	jane_, i havent seen the packaging yet
01:42	kjcole	jelkner, she's been hanging around you too long.
01:42	ogra	probably \sh has
01:42	flint	The cookbook is the update of the Tuxlab stuff?
01:42	kjcole	flint, right.
01:42	\sh	aeh...I never saw a cd of amu...but I can ask him to show me at least on of those...
01:43	ogra	jane_, but i wanted to ask him to use our artwork
01:43	jane_	ogra: If at all possible it would be nice if he used our stuff from mhz
01:43	jane_	^snap
01:43	ogra	yup
01:43	ogra	:)
01:43	jane_	ogra: also if his version is more 'official' I'll list it above others...
01:43	jane_	as a preferred option
01:43	jsgotangco	kjcole: where are you doing it? some online rcs or something?
01:43	ogra	i just pinged him in #kubuntu
01:44	ogra	lets see, probably he likes to join
01:44	mhz	jane_: cool if it is used (at least some) so I have more arguments to talk about with Pablo :)
01:44	JaneW	mhz: exactly :))
01:44	JaneW	mhz: however it means he'll need to design a whole new one for 6.04 ;P
01:44	\sh	ogra: i pinged him as well on kubuntu-de
01:44	ogra	heh
01:45	JaneW	shall we discuss the translation issue and where / how to store translated wiki pages?
01:45	mhz	JaneW: np, actually I have been drawing some stuff already :D
01:45	JaneW	mhz: great
01:45	JaneW	was there ever an Artwork team meeitng?
01:45	kjcole	jsgotangco, I was trying to learn everything at once: docbook, bzr, launchpad, etc.  But since it's primarily just jelkner and myself, and we live 3 miles apart, we've agreed to speed things up and just get started via e-mail exchanges and/or shared access to a ssh-able account.
01:45	JaneW	pips1 and highvoltage were going to arrange one
01:46	flint	yea, but try to drive that 3 miles...
01:46	mhz	JaneW: regarding lightweight, I am seriusly considering working on wmaker theming stuff, as many of the visits I have done to schools so far (about 6), IT stuff is really poor
01:46	ogra	JaneW, did we document the new artwork requirements somewhere ?
=== ogra cant remember
01:46	mhz	JaneW: no idea about artwork meetings
01:46	jsgotangco	kjcole: if you're doing it in docbook and having a hard time, please let me know
01:47	jsgotangco	kjcole: and i can set up an online repo so we can work with revision control
01:48	kjcole	jsgotangco, so far, what I've seen of docbook doesn't look too difficult, but listening to others talk about it leads me to suspect perhaps I haven't looked deep enough to find such trouble. ;-)
01:48	jelkner	mhz: can i get an email for you?  i'd like to ask you some questions about setting up for spanish learners...
01:48	mhz	JaneW: is EdubuntuStudyPackages technical or doc?
01:48	ogra	JaneW, oh, i see you have documented it i the meeting records ...
01:48	flint	jsgotangco, it seems silly to set up YACVS when access to Bazar-NG is upon us...eh?
01:48	mhz	jelkner: http://wiki.edubuntu.org/MauricioHernandez
01:48	ogra	JaneW, note that the artwork stuff is not related to ltsp ...
01:49	mhz	sure
01:49	jsgotangco	flint: not really....
01:49	JaneW	ogra: yes but highvoltage wanted to create a team to manage the wiki, website and galleries etc
01:49	jsgotangco	kjcole: well the docbook thing needs at least to render properly in Yelp if we want it in the distro
01:49	JaneW	mhz: what is EdubuntuStudyPackages?
01:49	ogra	JaneW, its under * Enhancements to LTSP - owner OliverGrawert
01:49	jsgotangco	kjcole: its not really vodoo but it can be hairy sometimes
01:50	ogra	JaneW, it should be a separate item :)
01:50	mhz	JaneW: apt-get install mathematics-keduca (i.e.)
01:50	JaneW	ogra: not anymore ;P
01:50	ogra	heh
01:50	mhz	JaneW: apt-get install chemestry-ghemical (i.e.)
01:51	kjcole	flint, that was sort of my thinking: having never used any RVC, CVS, SubVersion, whatever, I figured I'd skip 'em all and go straight to bzr, so I wouldn't have to un-learn anything later.
01:51	JaneW	mhz: yes it sounds like technical why?
01:51	mhz	JaneW: because some LA guys (Venezuela and Chile, so far) we have started some planing on how to do it
01:51	ogra	the packaging is technical, the content is doc
01:51	kjcole	Even if bzr's not quite ready for prime-time, it does appear to be getting used, so I thought "good 'nuf".
01:52	mhz	JaneW: ogra has given some opinions actually, too
01:52	ogra	same as the artwork packages
01:52	flint	kjcole, you are the evil-knevil of version control.  Go ahead and jump!
01:52	mhz	kjcole: I am also very close to start learning bzr, esp. for EdubuntuStudyPackages
01:53	ogra	its very easy
01:53	mhz	so it seems
01:53	jsgotangco	very
01:53	ogra	very very
01:53	ogra	:)
01:53	kjcole	mhz, we definitely need to stay in touch (considering you also have an interest in the Accessible/Special Needs stuff too...)
01:53	mhz	ogra: however, your 'easy' may be very diff from my 'easy' :D
01:53	mhz	kjcole: indeed, sure.
01:54	ogra	mhz, not really ... i never used version control systems before baz... and baz sucked... bzr is fun to use, especially thanks to Keybuk and his bzrk :)
01:55	mhz	oh
01:55	flint	ogra, kjcole has some german in his background, so it might be easier for him than the rest of us:^)
01:55	mhz	I used svn once and it seemed easy when you understand what it does
01:55	ogra	flint, no german knowledge required for bzr ;)
01:55	JaneW	5 minutes to go
01:55	flint	for instance the only thinge easy for the irish are drinking and reproduction.
01:56	JaneW	any other pressing items?
01:56	JaneW	we seem to have no issues so far - which is good
01:56	mhz	ArtWork/ theming
01:56	JaneW	and so far progress seems faurly steady
01:56	JaneW	fairly
01:56	mhz	Doc/Translations of Edubuntu wiki pages
01:56	JaneW	we just need to make sure we are on track for dev milestones
01:56	JaneW	mhz: yes, did you see my e-mail?
01:57	mhz	Community/I need to talk to some guy ogra pointed in order to get the edubuntu-cl ML
01:57	mhz	JaneW: hmm, now I have :)
01:57	ogra	that'd be jdub
01:57	JaneW	mhz: yes jdub is in charge of all mailing lists
01:58	JaneW	mhz: will it be a CHILE list or a general Spanish language list?
01:58	mhz	JaneW: I also saw your spec on 'content'. EdubuntuStudyPackages is considered under that category?
01:58	ogra	oh, just for info, i'll be at linuxtag in essen with \sh and juliux presenting edubuntu ....
01:58	jelkner	JaneW: where is the spec on content?
01:59	kjcole	ogra, bzrk... that graphic thing demo-ed at UBZ?  It looked like a neat package.  I'll have to dig it up.
01:59	ogra	additionally there is a IRC based conference i will hold a talk about edubuntu: http://umeet.uninet.edu/
01:59	mhz	JaneW: hmm, I usually prefer small stuff so you can give others more options to contribute. if it were my decision, I'd do it for latinamerica, because spanish is not quite the same, but spanish seems to be more universal concept
01:59	ogra	kjcole, deb http://people.ubuntu.com/~jbailey/snapshot/bzr/ ./
=== JaneW just saw https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuStudyPackages for the first time now, so forgive me if I am a bit lost in this discussion...
02:00	JaneW	what content?
02:00	jelkner	EdubuntuStudyPackages
02:00	mhz	JaneW: Doc/ or Marketing/ we are working on a paper to hand in with CD's. and also one for Edubuntu only
02:00	ogra	JaneW, do you remember my library server idea from the beginning ? its nearly the same ...
02:00	kjcole	ogra, thanks.
02:00	mhz	in spanish
02:01	JaneW	ogra: oic, well yes it is a good idea
02:01	JaneW	ogra: is someone going to own it and run with it?
02:01	ogra	providing content for the signle apps
02:01	ogra	mhz, ?
02:01	JaneW	guys we need to wrap up and vacate the venue soon...
02:01	JaneW	turn off the lights when you leave and head back to #edubuntu...
02:01	mhz	ogra: ?
02:02	flint	JaneW, mhz, how hard is it to cross link pages in moin?
02:02	mhz	JaneW: this spec http://wiki.edubuntu.org/ExampleContent?highlight=%28spec%29%7C%28content%29
02:02	JaneW	ogra: a bit like example content then?
02:02	ogra	a bit more
02:02	mhz	flint: piece of cake
02:02	ogra	mhz, <JaneW> ogra: is someone going to own it and run with it?
02:02	mhz	flint: i can help you in #edubuntu
02:02	JaneW	flint just mention a page in another and hey presto
02:03	mhz	ogra: own it? (my spanish attacks sometimes)
02:03	jelkner	when is the next meeting?
02:03	ogra	JaneW, its real teaching content, not only examples
02:03	flint	mhz, jane could could cross link edubuntu study packages to her page...
02:03	JaneW	mhz: we can help with that, we just don;t have time to love to many whole things at once :)
02:03	ogra	mhz, own it == take responsibility for it ...
02:03	mhz	JaneW: ooooh
02:03	mhz	ogra: I can, yes
02:03	JaneW	ogra: well the ppl with teaching experience and qualifications should handle that
02:03	jsgotangco	mhz: but those things are very country-centric but its your package so :)
=== JaneW looks over towards the USA...
02:04	mhz	jsgotangco: yes, but the effort can be translated
02:04	jelkner	JaneW: i *want* to get involved in that, i'm trying to figure out how...
02:04	ogra	JaneW, yup... but packaging it is a ggod idea i think
02:04	mhz	jsgotangco: for example: content about Ubuntu Training Course
02:04	jelkner	anyway, when is the next meeting (before we vacate)
02:04	jelkner	?
02:04	flint	this is why i thought finding out more about scorm was a good thing...
02:04	JaneW	yes I have kids to fecth
02:04	jsgotangco	this looks like jdub's sample content stuff for dapper
02:04	flint	I have coffee to drink.
02:05	JaneW	I will finish the meeting notes in the next 10
02:05	jsgotangco	(only that its not a sample)
02:05	jelkner	JaneW: so, jane, when is the next meeting?
02:05	JaneW	please edit/ add/ amend as necessary afterwards
02:05	JaneW	jelkner: 6 days 23 hours
02:05	jelkner	ahh
02:05	jelkner	good
02:05	ogra	JaneW, you noted that we have a a11y/edubuntu meeting at 14:30 UTC ?
02:05	JaneW	same time, same place each week unless otherwise stated
02:05	jelkner	ally?
02:05	mhz	okidoki.
02:05	JaneW	ogra: I didn't
02:05	ogra	oh
02:06	flint	nice stuff jane.  I declare a motion to adjourn.
02:06	ogra	jelkner, accessibility
02:06	JaneW	I may miss that or part of it, but I will try to be here at least some of the time
02:06	JaneW	ciao
02:06	mhz	flint: jelkner: would you be interested in packaging educational content?
02:06	jelkner	mhz: sure would!
02:06	ogra	bye JaneW and thanks
02:06	flint	mhz,
02:06	jelkner	bye jane
02:06	flint	mhz, indeed I would.
02:06	mhz	could we move back to#edubuntu?
02:06	JaneW	thanks to all :)

</pre>
