{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



mathematical function plotter for KDE 4

=== Summary ===

KmPlot is a powerful mathematical plotter KDE 4, capable of plotting multiple
functions simultaneously and combining them into new functions.
 
Cartesian, parametric, and differential functions are supported, as well as
functions using polar coordinates.  Plots are printed with high precision at
the correct aspect ratio.
 
KmPlot also provides numerical and visual features such as filling and
calculating the area between the plot and the first axis, finding maxima and
minima, changing function parameters dynamically, and plotting derivatives
and integral functions.
 
This package is part of the KDE 4 education module.

=== Technical Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Type
| Educational
|-
| Age Range
| Recommended age range
|-
| Profile
| Edubuntu profile(s) that include this
|-
| Website
| http://edu.kde.org/
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/kmplot
|-
| License
| License(s) the application is available under
|-
| Language
| C++, C
|-
| Toolkit
| KDE, QT
|}

=== Screenshots ===

{{http://screenshots.debian.net/screenshot/kmplot|kmplot Screenshot}}

If a screen shot is not available, submit your own according to the debian screenshot <nowiki>[[http://screenshots.debian.net/upload|guidelines]]</nowiki>.

=== User Comments ===

This space is for users to share their experiences and opinions about the application
