{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-profile-and-network-session-management
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Sabayon and Pesselus are the gnome applications for managing session profiles and desktop lockdown.  Unfortunately, they have some rough edges.  We need to fix this, so we can install Sabayon/Pessulus as the default application set for managing user profiles and locking down the desktop.

=== Release Note ===

Sabayon/Pessulus are the default applications installed by Edubuntu to allow administrators to manage user profiles and lock down desktops.

=== Rationale ===

Administrators want to be able to customize the desktop for their users, adding icons, changing panel layouts and locking down functionallity.  The tool for the job in a gnome environment as edubuntu ships it is the combination of Sabayon and Pessulus.

=== Use Cases ===

* Sonja runs a school network, and wants to have icons on the desktop, as opposed to the panel, as her young students find it easier to click the larger buttons.  She creates a Sabayon profile, and adds the icons.  All of her sudents are members of the "student" group in /etc/groups, so she assigns the profile to the "student" group, and everything works as expected.

* Willy is a math teacher, to avoid his students being distracted by options in the desktop menu of their PCs they use for creating mathematical formulas he creates a restricted profile that only allows usage of some few applications his students will need for the class. All his students are in the willy-math group, he applies the profile to this group and the students wont be able to use anything willy didn't want them to use.

=== Assumptions ===

* Sabayon/Pessulus are installed by default.
* A default "open" profile is installed to provide a starting point.

=== Design ===

* Sabayon:
** Sabayon ''Is'' maintained upstream (there were rumours it would be dead), so we should join the mailing lists, and start sending patches.
** The default behaviour should be, once installed it shouldn't cause any visible change, then the admin can lock down from there.
** There is a plan to merge Sabayon and Pesselus upstream into a single source package, but the different tools will remain, as some people will want to have lockdown featurs without profiles.
** Profile groups
*** Apply Sabayon profiles by unix group id.  This new feature will have to be added.
** Make the application of Default/Mandatory keys a little more intuitive.  Minor UI changes are needed to implement this.
** The target for hardy will be installing Sabayon/Pessulus by default on an LTSP/Edubuntu server model.
** Needs some really nice docs so ogra's mother can understand its usage.  Submit docs back upstream.
** LDAP mode?  Don't worry for hardy.
*** Should be more straightforward after LDAP server makes it into hardy to add this later.

* Pessulus:
** Needs a mode, similar to Sabayon, where we can assign lockdowns based on users/groups, and not all or nothing as it is now.
** We should review the icon, it currently rather looks like a firewall app or virus scanner (It's a shield)

* Testing:
** We need to be extremely vocal to the community and GET THEM TO TEST.
*** This will be key, as we want it there by default.

=== Implementation ===

* Add above listed functionality to Pessulus
* Add above listed functionality to Sabayon
* Create a set of default profiles (at least one open profile to be shipped by default)
* Include sabayon as well in edubuntu seeds (pessulus is shipped already)

==== UI Changes ====

* Change pessulus icon
* Add UI pieces needed for grouping users
* Improve the sabayon UI for easier use of Default and Mandatory key settings (hidden in a context menu nowadays)
* Get the docteam to update documentation accordingly

==== Code Changes ====

* Mostly usability fixes that will be sent as patches upstream
* We will develop a set of default profiles that will be shipped
* A feature for using unix groups as a base for sabayon has to be developed.

==== Migration ====

* Evaluate how widespread the usage is right now through the mailing lists and forums, account for any changes.

----
CategorySpec CategoryEdubuntuSpec
