{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Edubuntu provides many useful applications. Also, anyone can add more applications via APT.
But what if I Teachers and Students need excersices, tests, etc.?

Well, we could provide them via APT as well!

So, the idea of this page is to list efforts and motivate people, and discuss about how to do it and who is doing it.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/edubuntu-study-content|Join the LaunchPad team]]</nowiki>

== Motivation ==
* EduPoints could be used to motivate Teachers to provide free excercises and tests.

* Having repositories of educational content will ease teachers' daily work, and also; it will help to improve the different levels of teachers' service:
** More variety avaliable
** More community generated contents = more people seeing mistakes

* Teachers' work will be seen by international community

== The Start ==
* First, help on categorizing EdubuntuInstalledApplications.

* Then, we could start by identifying which of the default applications in Edubuntu do work well/friendly (and How) with files already created and that can be handy for teachers/students.

* We create some files to test packaging them and apt-getting them.

* Ideally, we could start focusing on applications that belong to a category where language is not an issue (maybe Math excercises or English teaching)

== Initial Specifications ==

* EdubuntuStudyContentSpecs
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams CategoryEdubuntuCleanup
