{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting April 18, 2007 ==
=== Technical ===
* Feisty ready for release
* Testing continues
** https://www.stgraber.org/ubuntu/isotesting/
* Specs for Gutsy starting...
** ogra listed some principle specs for consideration
** discussed CD and ISO products at some length
=== Documentation & Websites ===
* Release notes/announcement needed for Feisty
** "Combined" notes on website (http://www.edubuntu.org/news/7.04-release)
** linking to Community notes on wiki
** announcement on mailing lists
* Download page needs updating
** Drupal module from Newz2000
** Tested on 4.7?
* GettingStarted page on website is valid for Dapper and Edgy (up until the manual edit of ''dhcp.conf'' file)
** Feisty is the same as Ubuntu now
** Update accordingly 

<pre>
[14:02] <RichEd> ogra: technical
[14:02] <ogra> tech: we're ready for release ;)
[14:03] * RichEd applauds ... good to go
[14:03] <pips1_> nice
[14:03] <ogra> if you didnt help testing yet, here you can look up tests that are still missing
[14:03] <RichEd> ogra: are you happy overall ?
[14:03] <ogra> https://www.stgraber.org/ubuntu/isotesting/
[14:03] <pips1_> there aren't that many tests missing really
[14:04] <ogra> i'm happy apart from the fact that i'd like to have had the fix for bug 105709 earlier
[14:04] <ubotu> Malone bug 105709 in ltsp "sound config not reset after thin client usage" [Undecided,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/105709
[14:04] <ogra> but it can go into -updates
[14:04] <ogra> apart from that i'm happy all over :)
[14:04] <pips1_> ogra: you didn't help testing?
[14:04] <ogra> pips1_, ??
[14:04] <jsgotangco> lol
[14:05] * RichEd thanks all who have contributed & helped with the new version
[14:05] <pips1_> ah, sorry misread
[14:05] <ogra> i tested all CDs as usual
[14:05] <ogra> and i will go for a netboot install test as soon as the meeting is done
[14:05] <willvdl> +++
[14:05] <ogra> seems thats the last missing one
[14:06] <jsgotangco> i did test the amd64 DVD for edubuntu (as well as the other amd64 for ubuntu)
[14:06] <ogra> all we need now is a release announcem,ent and we can start speccing gutsy ;)
[14:06] <ogra> for gutsy i have a list of thins i want to spec:
[14:06] <pips1_> yes, 2 netboot tests missing, 5 edubuntu server tests and 2 desktop tests
[14:07] <ogra> *things
[14:07] <RichEd> The release was prepared by Jane Silber ... it is a combined one. Will is going to post for us. Will ... do you have a copy ?
[14:07] <willvdl> not yet
[14:07] <willvdl> but can post it easy enough
[14:07] <RichEd> let me ask her for the latest one
[14:07] <jsgotangco> hmm it used to be community written though
[14:07] <willvdl> will I need to Edubuntise it?
[14:08] <ogra> RichEd, no, we'll need our own notes on the webpage, the combined one links to it
[14:08] <willvdl> jsgotangco, I assume it is taken from coomunity contribs
[14:08] <RichEd> well let me get the combined one, and then we can see what to add / modify
[14:08] <willvdl> ogra, ah, noow I get it
[14:08] <ogra> we dont modify that one
[14:09] <ogra> RichEd, ^^^
[14:09] <ogra> we just need our webpage to be ready by release ...
[14:09] <RichEd> i mean we use the ubuntu combined one as a starting point, and then flesh out more detail .... keeping language style etc consistent
[14:09] <ogra> and its up to us to send a separate announcement to any edubuntu MLs
[14:09] <pips1_> yes, the download page needs updating
[14:09] <ogra> but we wont have one separately to ubuntu-announce
[14:10] * RichEd nods ... that's they way in understand it as well
[14:10] <RichEd> way *I
[14:10] <ogra> right, but let me finish tech ;) thats docs ;)
[14:10] * pips1_ looks around for highvoltage
[14:10] <ogra> so i want to have a bunch of specs for gutsy:
[14:11] <ogra> 1. finish ltsp manager (seems the demand gets bigger here and feisty doesnt have it yet)
[14:11] <ogra> 2. make the VNC stuff work out of the box in TCM
[14:11] <ogra> https://wiki.edubuntu.org/InstallX11VncOnLtspClients has instructions for feisty ...
[14:12] <ogra> we'll need to automate that stuff in gutsy
[14:12] <jsgotangco> +1
[14:12] <ogra> 3. merge python-tcm and python-ltsp ...
[14:12] <ogra> cbx33 isnt here today, sad
[14:12] <ogra> 4. ltsp speed profiling
[14:12] <ogra> http://wiki.ltsp.org/twiki/bin/view/Ltsp/BootSpeedeBox2300 is horrific
[14:13] <ogra> i agreed with all other ltsp devs that we will put the main focus for gutsy on that ... that means we'll have a lot of profiling sessions in sevilla ...
[14:14] <ogra> and hopefulle that will bring us a extremely slimlined -ltsp kernel image as well ..
[14:14] <willvdl> any fault tolerance specs?
[14:14] <willvdl> suppose they'll come out at UDS
[14:14] <ogra> 5. ldm rewrite ... a new guio is nearly done (i wrote it ovber easter) nearly three times as fast and only 10% in size of the curren one
[14:15] <ogra> willvdl, can you elaborate ?
[14:15] <willvdl> things like persistance in connections
[14:15] <highvoltage> hi pips1_
[14:15] <willvdl> session management etc
[14:15] <ogra> https://launchpad.net/people/ogra/+branch/ltsp/ldm-greeter <-- in case anyone is interested in committing code ...
[14:15] <ogra> willvdl, thats something Xorg must provide first ...
[14:16] <RichEd> willvdl: there was a request to discuss fault tolerance at UES ... let me get the launcpad link
[14:16] <willvdl> ogra, true, hence I remembered uds
[14:16] <ogra> session management is TCM ... we'll surely enhance it further
[14:16] <RichEd> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/fault-tolerant-edubuntu
[14:16] <willvdl> RichEd, aware of that, but the technical spec side is reliant on upstream work 
[14:17] <ogra> 6. improve ldm error handling (give useful input to users if a login fails)
[14:17] <ogra> and my biggest one:
[14:17] <RichEd> willvdl:  well we need to get the requirements in the discussion, and note dependencies & possibilities of what can or can't be done
[14:17] <ogra> 7. drop the first edubuntu CD and make it a ubuntu-thin-client-server.iso ... edubuntu should move to the addon CD completely
[14:18] <ogra> i know 7 will be most controversial
[14:18] * jsgotangco just blinked
[14:18] <willvdl> :)
[14:18] <ogra> thats my list of specs i want to register ...
[14:18] <highvoltage> ogra: from a technical perspective, it does make sense. it also breaks the 'turnkey' component of edubuntu
[14:18] <willvdl> highvoltage, +
[14:18] <highvoltage> then again... ubuntu is easy enough to install these days.
[14:19] <RichEd> highvoltage: we can still provide the turnkey option as an .iso
[14:19] <willvdl> I think it opens up opportunities for more turnkey options
[14:19] <highvoltage> RichEd: a teacher doesn't consider it turnkey if they have to press eject on their cd-drive twice;)
[14:20] <highvoltage> RichEd: please don't ge t me wronge, I'm not apposed to it
[14:20] <ogra> highvoltage, beyond ltsp setup in the installer there is nothing that really justifies to have the first edubuntu CD ... if you drop the installer part, only artwork, some settings and package selection are left
[14:20] <ogra> these will work very well from the second CD
[14:21] <willvdl> with moodle and friends on 2nd CD?
[14:21] <highvoltage> ogra: yes, I agree
[14:21] <ogra> *and* we could make the addon CD apply to ubuntu *and-+ kubuntu with that setup ... so its totally up to the user what base desktop he has
[14:21] <ogra> willvdl, right
[14:21] <highvoltage> ogra: that's very cool
[14:22] <ogra> even xfce would be possible :)
[14:22] * pips1_ thinks this is a good move
[14:22] <RichEd> also with that approach, it allows for more "agressive marketing" of thin client ubuntu ... good commercial opportunties (I mean for corporate market)
[14:22] <highvoltage> edubuntu should really have been that way from the start, imho
[14:22] <ogra> anyway, we'll need that thin-client-iso .... mdz is opposing a standalone CD for that but i√Ñm confident we'll get a solution one or the other way here
[14:22] <RichEd> and ubuntu + moodle is then an option, as well as edubuntu + moodle etc.
[14:23] <ogra> right
[14:23] <jsgotangco> won't that make the brand irrelevant?
[14:23] <willvdl> the brand is *buntu :)
[14:23] <jsgotangco> i mean your ltsp iso is stand alone and you then choose your desktop
[14:23] <ogra> jsgotangco, no, the brand will be still on the addon CD ...
[14:23] <RichEd> jsgotangco: edubuntu then becomes a configuration, rather than a product, but can be retained as a brand as such
[14:23] <jsgotangco> willvdl: exactly i mean what's edubuntu here?
[14:24] <jsgotangco> bingo
[14:24] <ogra> jsgotangco, what it always was ... a set of apps, settings and artwork
[14:24] <willvdl> jsgotangco, edubuntu is the educational variant, but variant is a misnomer
[14:24] <RichEd> jsgotangco: it's an add-on ... and that's what it is in reality no ?
[14:24] <jsgotangco> its not a product anymore but a configuraiton
[14:24] <ogra> its still a product
[14:24] <ogra> but shipped differently
[14:24] <jsgotangco> err?
[14:24] <willvdl> the configuration is the product?
[14:24] <jsgotangco> ask RichEd
[14:25] <willvdl> just thinking aloud
[14:25] <RichEd> you add edubuntu to ubuntu ... the add-on can be seen as a product ... and packaed as such
[14:25] <RichEd> *packaged
[14:25] <ogra> the set of config, artwork and apps is a product ... but shipped as an addon to *buntu
[14:25] <bimberi> "edu" constrains the potention in the Ubuntu LTSP solution
[14:25] <bimberi> *potential
[14:25] * RichEd agrees with bimberi 
[14:25] <ogra> right
[14:26] <ogra> we want a plain ubuntu LTSP you can isntall as you install edubuntu today
[14:26] <jsgotangco> it is a bit confusing but its your call
[14:26] <ogra> the biggest advantage will be shipit ...
[14:26] <willvdl> jsgotangco, if anything it makes life easier for us to get on with the Edu part of edubuntu
[14:26] <ogra> currently you can only get the first edubuntu CD from it
[14:26] <RichEd> thin client is good for banking halls, government service terminals, icafe's etc. but is not promoted as such as it kind of stays inside edubuntu or education) which is its roots, but not a final resting place
[14:26] <ogra> but not the addon which has much of the edu apps
[14:27] <highvoltage> ogra: why should there be a thin-client iso? (I'm not apposed, I just don't understand)
[14:27] <jsgotangco> ok if i get this right, it becomes a cookbook of sorts, you get to choose your ingredients
[14:27] <ogra> highvoltage, my vision would be a plain thin client iso with duifferent install variants:
[14:27] <ogra> 1. plain LTSP
[14:28] <ogra> 2. fat client server
[14:28] <willvdl> jsgotangco, which have assumedly been hand-selected by a repected community
[14:28] <ogra> 3. icafe setup (webkiosk)
[14:28] <pips1_> yes, why an thin client iso? it could just be an installation option on the ubuntu and kubuntu installers
[14:28] <ogra> 4. whateveryoucanimaginehere
[14:28] <highvoltage> ogra: ah, so it won't contain the pre-build chroots as such?
[14:28] <ogra> it will use the installer as we use it now in edubuntu
[14:28] <Kamping_Kaiser> 5 netboot gateway
[14:28] <highvoltage> ogra: surely those will fit on the ubuntu cd? or is the seperate cd to emphasize value-add?
[14:29] <ogra> Kamping_Kaiser, good point, noted
[14:29] <Kamping_Kaiser> ty (i made one by hand :S)
[14:29] <ogra> highvoltage, ltsp needs the i386 kernel ...
[14:29] <ogra> which means ~20M
[14:29] <ogra> it wont fit on the normal ubuntu CD
[14:29] <ogra> mdz's suggestion was to add it to the server CD, but then we'll need to ship a desktop there
[14:29] <pips1_> ach, the size limitation prob again
[14:30] <ogra> which is pointless imho ...
[14:30] <highvoltage> ogra: ok, I see what you mean.
[14:30] <ogra> this CD i'm talking about would actually be the current first edubuntu CD without branding :)
[14:31] <pips1_> yes, I was just about to ask... server components like moodle, schooltool, how do you get those integrated in what now currently is "edubuntu"
[14:31] <pips1_> ?
[14:31] <ogra> via metapackages
[14:31] <ogra> preseeding package settings works on the addon CD as well as in the installer ...
[14:31] <pips1_> ah
[14:32] <willvdl> which is what would have been done on 1st CD anyway
[14:32] <ogra> its a bit different but nothing that prevents us from using it on the addon CD
[14:32] <jsgotangco> i have a simple question
[14:32] <willvdl> forget the "?"
[14:32] <pips1_> so what are the steps to install a ltsp classroom server with moodle?
[14:33] <pips1_> *what would the steps be?
[14:33] <ogra> pips1_, in gutsy you mean ?
[14:33] <pips1_> yes
[14:33] <ogra> well, install an ubuntu ltsp server from the thin client CD (or the ubuntu server CD or whatever)
[14:33] <ogra> pop in your addon CD ... gnome-app-install pops up ...
[14:34] <ogra> select edubuntu-moodle-server .... and click ok
[14:34] <ogra> probably answer two questions about the DB admin password and thats it ...
[14:34] <highvoltage> jsgotangco: ask?
[14:34] <ogra> thats how i see it
[14:34] <pips1_> you install the LTSP iso, choose 'plain ltsp' (for example), insert the addon cd ... and then what? do you get options like 1. install edu desktop apps 2. install moodle 3. install schooltool, etc.?
[14:35] <ogra> highvoltage, dont encourage him, he could actually do it :P
[14:35] <highvoltage> heh!
[14:35] <highvoltage> ogra: perhaps I already scared him off?
[14:35] <jsgotangco> where is the focus on education here now? why do i see this as a meeting of ltsp rather than an edubuntu one?
[14:35] <ogra> pips1_, the addon CD will work as it does now ...l through g-a-i
[14:35] <pips1_> ogra, I see
[14:36] <ogra> jsgotangco, the focus will be much clearer if we make that move
[14:36] <jsgotangco> ok
[14:36] <ogra> the addon CD will be the edu part of things
[14:36] <pips1_> so moodle would simply appear in the listings like the other desktop applications?!
[14:36] <willvdl> jsgotangco, see your concern but I see this as the start of a (big) conversation
[14:36] <jsgotangco> it is
[14:36] <ogra> totally independent of the underlying arch
[14:36] <jsgotangco> i understand the technical need btw
[14:37] <ogra> pips1_, there woukld be an edubuntu-moodle entry or something like that, yes
[14:37] <RichEd> ogra: would it be edubuntu-moodle or *buntu-moodle ?
[14:37] <ogra> jsgotangco, its not a *need* we live fine with it as is ... but it just seems to make far more sense
[14:38] <ogra> RichEd, edubuntu-moodle since it would be on the addon CD just to provide the entry in g-a-i
[14:38] <pips1_> hmm, this will defnitely need a discussion session at the UES and UDS, me thinks
[14:38] <ogra> for ubuntu you would just iunstall moodle
[14:38] <highvoltage> pips1_: yes, that's what ogra said :)
[14:38] <ogra> the edubuntu-moodle entry would only add it to gnome-app-install
[14:39] <ogra> might even be edubuntu-server if we ship more than moodle
[14:39] <ogra> or edubuntu-services
[14:39] <RichEd> okay ... do we need to discuss this at UES before UDS, or can it wait for UDS ?
[14:39] <ogra> thast up to us to spec at UDS ;) nothinbg for the meeting
[14:40] <ogra> we should at least discuss the complete move to an addon ... tech details can go to UDS
[14:40] <highvoltage> at least it made the meeting a bit exciting, you should bring up subjects like this more often :)
[14:40] <RichEd> it may be an idea to has a session at UES on "the edubuntu add-on CD and what people would like to see there"
[14:40] <ogra> yeah
[14:40] <ogra> that was my plan ...
[14:41] <RichEd> if you create the UDS meeting, I'll make a more general one for UES
[14:41] <ogra> i havent registered any specs yet for any of the summits ... i plan to do that over the weekend or beginning next week
[14:41] <ogra> releae was keeping me busy :) i only made a list on ym whiteboard yet :)
[14:42] <RichEd> ah ... analogue technology
[14:42] <ogra> heh, yes
[14:42] <RichEd> Time marches on ... are we reaching the end of technical ?
[14:42] <ogra> my whiteboard is my mind :)
[14:42] <ogra> yup
[14:42] <highvoltage> I think http://www.kiwix.org/ would be nice to include on CD#2
[14:42] <ogra> tech done ... unless there are questions
[14:42] <highvoltage> but we can discuss that in Sevilla :)
[14:43] <ogra> right, we should have a spec for app selection at UES
[14:43] <pips1_> I'm really interested in the mid to long term ideas of how *integration* works for server components (ltsp / dhcp / directory server / moodle / ...) and the desktop
[14:43] <RichEd> we should probably have a technical spec discussion at next weeks meeting, to talk through the BOFs ogra is gong to create, and what else people think is missing
[14:43] <willvdl> highvoltage, kiwix, oooooh
[14:43] <highvoltage> willvdl: indeed :)
[14:44] <ogra> highvoltage, i hope that doesnt need mediawiki or something
[14:44] <willvdl> pips1_, ++
[14:44] <highvoltage> ogra: it seems like a standalone thing, I haven't tried it yet, but will download to provide feedback and information
[14:45] <willvdl> ogra, oooh, looks like it does :)
[14:45] <RichEd> okie moving on to: Documentation then ...
[14:45] <RichEd> Documentation for the release we need:
[14:46] <willvdl> someone mentioned download page needs updating?
[14:46] <RichEd> 1 our own announcement written for the edubutu mailing lists
[14:46] <RichEd> 2 our own announcement page for edubuntu.org
[14:47] <RichEd> 3, check download page & update
[14:47] <RichEd> I'll do #1 with ogra's input
[14:47] <RichEd> willvdl: , can you look after #2 if I give you the text from #1 ?
[14:48] <willvdl> #1 can be synchronous with wiki page?
[14:48] <ogra> 1 can just link to 2, no ?
[14:48] <willvdl> ogra, yeah
[14:48] <RichEd> yes ... 1 is the text for the mail shot ... plain, no format
[14:48] <RichEd> 2 needs to look pretty, so it is just a bit of tarting up
[14:48] <willvdl> #2 would be #2-a: www.e.o "combined announcement"
[14:48] <willvdl> and #2-b: wiki page as always
[14:49] <RichEd> so willvdl, if i do the text, can you create the pages and make it look pretty ?
[14:49] * willvdl can't remember where the notes go on the wiki...
[14:49] <willvdl> yeah. no problem
[14:50] <RichEd> and pips1_ : you mentioned that the download page needs updating. can you manage with that and what help / info do you need ?
[14:50] <willvdl> probably info from Matt?
[14:50] <jsgotangco> download links never change much, just the folders where they are supposed to be grabbed
[14:50] <pips1_> well, matt got in touch with me. he has developed a drupal module that dynamically updates the best download mirrors
[14:51] <highvoltage> pips1_: is that the file I'm waiting for?
[14:52] <pips1_> highvoltage agreed to install the drupal module on the webserver once matt nuzum is done with the module...
[14:52] <highvoltage> ah ok. I wondered what the module was for..
[14:52] <RichEd> okie ... shall I check with matt nuzum as to the status of that ?
[14:53] <pips1_> yes, it's a bit convoluted that there are now three people involved... but on the short term, it's ok, highvoltage and me can discuss how we streamline this in the future
[14:53] <RichEd> okie popping over to ask matt now
[14:54] <pips1_> when is the release actually going to happen? (I need to know to be ready in the right moment)?
[14:55] <pips1_> ogra ^^^ ?
[14:55] <highvoltage> pips1_: tomorrow is the 19th ;)
[14:55] <ogra> 19th is scheduled
[14:55] <pips1_> what time?
[14:55] <ogra> no idea
[14:55] <jsgotangco> you can actually grab the cd now if you want
[14:56] <ogra> european noon i guess
[14:56] <ogra> to catch the press
[14:57] <RichEd> pips1_, highvoltage : i've pinged newz2000 waiting for a response ...
[14:58] <bimberi> it'll be April 19 somewhere in the world for ~48 hours :)
[14:58] <pips1_> RichEd: mee too in #ubuntu-matt
[14:58] <willvdl> prob a bit early for him?
[14:58] <pips1_> willvdl: yep
[14:58] <RichEd> pips1_: i'll join you there ... to cut out the number of comms laters
[14:58] <RichEd> *layers
[14:58] <jsgotangco> that can seriously start a trend
[15:00] <willvdl> any other doc news?
[15:00] <willvdl> last week was mentioned that "edubuntu-docs" is final, translation templates are up for sale...
[15:01] <pips1_> I'm just a bit concerned about this download "module"... when there is only very little time, I prefer to keep it simple, i.e. I'd rather have some static links to mirrors, rather than a fancy dynamic thing... also we should really test matt's module on a separate drupal 4.7 test install, rather than dropping it onto the live server (the ubuntu site is using drupal 5.0 so i don't know if any compatability issues occur)
[15:01] <willvdl> and handbook updated
[15:01] <ogra> willvdl, given that the CDs are final ...
[15:01] <highvoltage> pips1_: we can still have the static page as a fallback
[15:01] <ogra> we can still push updates through feisty-updates later
[15:01] <willvdl> pips1_, if it's the module I'm thinking of then it is already in production?
[15:02] <willvdl> scratch that
[15:02] <willvdl> didn't read you properly
[15:02] <pips1_> willvdl: yes, it is in production on the ubuntu site, but it needs adjustments to link  to *edubuntu* isos
[15:03] <RichEd> ogra: i've mailed you a text doc with #1 the ubuntu and #2 ubuntu flavours announcement text. can you please add the additional points for edubuntu (features etc) and I will sort out from there
[15:03] <pips1_> also, what i said about the different versions of drupal u.c vs e.o might apply
[15:03] <ogra> RichEd, indeed
[15:04] <ogra> (the thing i hate most in a release cycle ... writing release announcements)
[15:04] <RichEd> thanks ... i'll then pass on to willvdl for the web stuff, and also send out on edubuntu-users, edubuntu-devel, and ubuntu-education
[15:04] <willvdl> pips1_, we can use the wiki as before which has a link "https://wiki.edubuntu.org/Edubuntu/DownloadRedirect" which just redirects to www.e.org
[15:04] <RichEd> ogra: you give me the tech bullets, i'll make up the reading version
[15:04] <ogra> yup
[15:04] <willvdl> so we could modify the get-edubuntu wiki page
[15:05] <willvdl> and point to it from the www site?
[15:05] <willvdl> hmmm, sounds a bit convoluted
[15:05] <highvoltage> ogra: that's a very peculiar stage to hate :)
[15:05] <pips1_> willvdl: huh?
[15:06] <willvdl> wiki site links to http://www.edubuntu.org/Download
[15:06] <pips1_> willvdl: let's keep the download page on edubuntu.org rather than the wiki
[15:06] <pips1_> yes, let's keep it there
[15:06] <willvdl> fine with me
[15:06] <RichEd> willvdl: alo please confirm the link you will use for the page on the edubuntu.org so I can have it in the release
[15:06] <ogra> highvoltage, its a special kind of report ... i hate writing any kind of reports :P
[15:06] <willvdl> the one that Mithrandir wnated?
[15:06] <RichEd> ogra: when do you think I should send out the mail shot ? tomorrow, but any specific time recommended ?
[15:07] <Mithrandir> RichEd: after I press the button is probably a good time. :-)
[15:07] <ogra> RichEd, if the ubuntu announcement is out ...
[15:07] <willvdl> urk, gotto check the log to see exact wording...
[15:07] <RichEd> Mithrandir: when do you think that will be ? just to get myself ready ...
[15:08] <pips1_> erm, another loose end: what about the (very popular) 'getting started' page that highvoltage wrote? surely, it needs to be archived and a new updated version needs done ? (taking the new setup with the addon cd into account)!
[15:08] <Mithrandir> RichEd: some time during the day; we're roughly in the same TZ.
[15:08] <RichEd> thanks ... will look out for the ubuntu-announce and check with you after i see that
[15:09] <Mithrandir> I'll be happy to prod you on IRC
[15:09] <pips1_> http://www.edubuntu.org/GettingStarted
[15:09] <pips1_> ^^^ this needs an update, or am I wrong?
[15:09] <highvoltage> pips1_: yes, it needs an update
[15:09] <willvdl> RichEd, got it: www.edubuntu.org/news/7.04-release
[15:10] <RichEd> thanks ...
[15:10] <ogra> RichEd, we ususally have it so the european press can still pick it up and the US press can soon pick it up ...
[15:10] <ogra> so around noon your time or a bit later would be my guess ...
[15:10] <highvoltage> pips1_: and the teacher advocacy page too, we need to update screenshots justfor some applications with new features
[15:10] <willvdl> pips1_, should be marked for CleanUp
[15:10] <pips1_> urg.. so who has the time to update it? (and who knows about the tech details to be correct)?
[15:10] <RichEd> ogra: I'll wait for the official prod from Mithrandir ...
[15:10] <ogra> yeah
[15:11] <willvdl> pips1_, oops, sorry again
[15:11] <willvdl> read you wrong :)
[15:11] <pips1_> hehe
[15:11] <willvdl> pips1_, there was discussion at length a while back where installation notes should go
[15:11] <willvdl> on wiki, on www or leave it in Colins debian install guide
[15:12] <pips1_> ^^^  ogra highvoltage (hope hope)
[15:13] <RichEd> Just on a note of meeting order: We're kind of covering documentation & web site agenda points at the moment. We can go back to artwork after this.
[15:13] <willvdl> pips1_, http://www.edubuntu.org/GettingStarted is actually still current but for Dapper...we should just rename it
[15:13] <pips1_> willvdl: yes
[15:13] <highvoltage> pips1_: the screenshots isn't incredibly critical, I'll install edubuntu-desktop and check what has changed the most. anyone could also do that.
[15:13] <pips1_> well, it's for edgy, rather than dapper, no?
[15:13] <pips1_> highvoltage: ok, I'll do the screenshots.
[15:14] <highvoltage> pips1_: cool
[15:14] <pips1_> highvoltage: can you do the getting started?
[15:14] <willvdl> highvoltage,, pips1_: do we want to continue this way? Install guide on www?
[15:14] <ogra> there should be no special notes for feisty beyond the ubuntu notes
[15:15] <pips1_> ogra: what do you mean by "notes"?
[15:15] <ogra> we dont need manual intervention since edgy anymore, so the ubuntu notes should just be fine for us
[15:15] <ogra> install notes
[15:15] <pips1_> ah
[15:15] <pips1_> so by install notes, you also mean that 'getting started' page?
[15:15] <ogra> dapper needed the dhcpd.conf fiddling ....
[15:15] <highvoltage> willvdl: I think it's important to have "a" install guide where people can easily find it
[15:15] <ogra> well, thats our install notes page, isnt it ?
[15:16] <willvdl> if we have a GettingStarted page then we should have it for Dapper, Edgy and a link to Feisty
[15:16] <pips1_> yes, you can call it that :)
[15:16] <highvoltage> willvdl: but it doesn't necassarily have to be its home
[15:16] <willvdl> highvoltage, remember a discussion we had with cjwatson about this?
[15:17] <pips1_> highvoltage, ogra: can you tell me of the current content on the GettingStarted page is relevant to A.) Dapper B.) Edgy C.) both?
[15:17] <ogra> A
[15:17] <ogra> and indeed BC whatever ... if you cur out the dhcpd.conf parts ...
[15:18] <ogra> *cut
[15:18] <pips1_> so the difference is that on edgy, you didn't need to manually edit the dhcpd.conf anymore
[15:18] <highvoltage> pips1_: originally A, then adapted to suite B as well
[15:18] <willvdl> so A up until manual edit of dhcp.conf, then C
[15:19] <ogra> pips1_, exactly ... the screens apart from that should be similar over all releases
[15:20] <pips1_> just to make sure: does the last section "fine-tuning the thin client setup" apply to *both* Dapper and Edgy?
[15:20] <-- fernando has left this server (Remote closed the connection).
[15:21] <pips1_> I mean, are those ltsp options all supported in Dapper?
[15:21] * ogra looks
[15:21] <ogra> hmm
[15:22] <highvoltage> ogra: I think last when we discussed, you said it would be best if there was a seperate wiki page for all the lts.conf tags?
[15:22] <ogra> that should rather use the file from /opt/ltsp/i386/usr/share/doc/ltsp-client/examples/lts.conf
[15:22] <ogra> that example file was never really accurate
[15:22] <highvoltage> (which would also specify since which release it's availble)
[15:22] <ogra> (the one on the webpage)
[15:22] <ogra> and it should point the user to /opt/ltsp/i386/usr/share/doc/ltsp-client/examples/lts-parameters.txt.gz
[15:23] <pips1_> arg, this is getting a bit complicated. I think we definitely need to get this right today
[15:23] <ogra> indeed that can be copied into a wikipage ... i tried to keep it up to date since edgy ... so it should list all valid optiojns
[15:23] <pips1_> ok, that makes it easier
[15:24] <ogra> whats complicatesd about that, replace the example lts.conf and poiunt users to read /opt/ltsp/i386/usr/share/doc/ltsp-client/examples/lts-parameters.txt.gz to get info about all available options
[15:25] <ogra> if you urgently want to copy it into the wiki, do it... but the pointer should suffice ... we also have that list of options in the handbook
[15:25] <pips1_> I'll copy the GettingStarted page twice, keep the current one for Dapper (rename it accordingly) and then trim the copies to work for Edgy and Feisty? And on all pages, we delete the last paragraph about the LTSP options and simply reference the wiki page that ogra mentioned
[15:25] <willvdl> pips1_, ++
[15:26] <ogra> err, i did mention a wikipage ?
[15:26] <pips1_> ah, sorry, indeed you said that the content of /opt/ltsp/i386/usr/share/doc/ltsp-client/examples/lts-parameters.txt.gz can be copied to a wiki page
[15:26] <ogra> right
[15:27] <ogra> but i'd rather refer to the handbook
[15:27] <ogra> and point to the path for deeper info ...
[15:27] <pips1_> for the sake of simplicity I'll do all that, and then I'll ping you guys (highvoltage and ogra) to proof read the GettingStarted page (in particular for Feisty)
[15:27] <willvdl> maybe start collating such stuff under release specific names?
[15:28] <ogra> if you are at a point where you override ltsp defaults (which is what lts,conf does) you have a rnning server and all docs available
[15:28] <RichEd> pips1_ & highvoltage ... matt nuzum is alive & waiting in #ubuntu-matt to chat about the download module
[15:28] * RichEd needs to shoot out for 20 mins ... should be back before the end of the meeting
[15:29] <ogra> well, is there still anything we need to discuass in the meeting ?
[15:29] <pips1_> so ogra, where do if find that handbook page about lts.conf ?
[15:29] <ogra> i think what we're doing atm casn move to #edubuntu
[15:29] <willvdl> well we can keep the discussion alive but wrap up the meeting with artwork and community?
[15:30] <RichEd> Not any more from me for today. just a call to those who want to discuss UES and UDS and Feisty+1 specs to be at next weeks meeting.
[15:30] <pips1_> ok, let's discuss the details about the release doc to @edubuntu
[15:30] <ogra> right, so lets wrap up and move to #edubuntu
[15:30] <RichEd> Thanks all ... I have to dash.
[15:31] <highvoltage> RichEd: I brefer to bash, personally.
[15:31] <pips1_> artwork?
[15:31] <ogra> any other business ?
[15:31] <willvdl> community is upcoming UES
</pre>
