{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting September 5, 2007 ==
This is the Edubuntu Team Meeting, started on 05 September 2007, 12H00 - 14H00 (Etc/GMT).

== Attendance ==

* ogra
* RichEd
* Kamping_Kaiser
* pips1

== Agenda ==
* Technical
** Where are we in the development cycle:
1. What was the last deadline?
2. What is the next deadline ?
** Progress over the last week?
** Items needing to be sorted out for the next deadline.
** Issues needing assistance for the next deadline.
** Any Other Items under Artwork.
** Any Other Items under Documentation.
** Planned Activities for coming week.
 
== Minutes ==
* Tech Report
** Bug 121547:
** Ogra noted: "ltspfs needs some updates sbalneav already prepared (a security fix)"

** Artwork:
** Wiki Page (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Volunteer):
*** We'll be going with Edubuntu_global-sept307b.png as default.

== Any Other Business ==
* None reported.

== IRC Logs ==

<pre>
02:02	RichEd	ogra ... you ready to go with technical report ?
02:04	ogra	sorry i didnt prepare anything (i have about 10h to fix bug 121547 and am under heavy pressure atm)
02:04	ubotu	Launchpad bug 121547 in ltsp "[Gutsy]  LTSP chroot building process hangs at 50% on Tribe1 CD" [Low,In progress]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/121547
02:04	RichEd	pips1: fine ... it will mainly be a short tech report ... oliver is in debug mode ... and I have another appointment soon
02:04	ogra	i'll try to do it on the fly
02:04	ogra	next milestone is beta release
02:04	ogra	(sept 27th=
02:04	ogra	)
02:05	ogra	stuff to be solved is the artwork (i think we got that, needs packaging but thats trivial)
02:05	ogra	bug 121547
02:05	ubotu	Launchpad bug 121547 in ltsp "[Gutsy]  LTSP chroot building process hangs at 50% on Tribe1 CD" [Low,In progress]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/121547
02:05	ogra	and some smaller stuff (i.e. non critical bugs)
02:05	ogra	ltspfs needs some updates sbalneav already prepared (a security fix)
02:06	ogra	most of that stuff can happen during the next weeks, only the installer bug is high prio on my desk atm (its very very tricky and more so its very time consuming to test changes)
02:07	ogra	scott is very busy on the doc front atm and uses his PPA for daily debs with the changes
02:11	RichEd	hi karl
02:11	Kamping_Kaiser	RichEd, hi mate
02:11	Kamping_Kaiser	just noticed the meeting call :$
02:13	RichEd	ogra: is that it from you ?
02:13	ogra	right
02:13	ogra	beyond that we have new artwork :)
02:13	ogra	please comment on the wikipage as usual
02:14	RichEd	let me get the link
02:14	RichEd	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Volunteer
02:14	ogra	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuArtwork/Volunteer
02:14	ogra	first ! :)
02:14	RichEd	looks like we are going with Edubuntu_global-sept307b.png as default
02:14	ogra	yeah
02:14	RichEd	so make your comments now if you want changes :)
02:15	ogra	unless someone heavily objects
02:16	RichEd	also let us know which of the others should go onto the CD as optional choices
02:16	ogra	the wiredubuntu one would make a beautiful usplash artwork ... but i wont have time to take care for that
02:16	ogra	that would be up to kwwii
02:16	Kamping_Kaiser	RichEd, my only question with that is the english on the image
02:16	RichEd	ogra: what needs to be done to get that right ? can anyone else help ?
02:16	RichEd	Kamping_Kaiser: let me look again ...
02:16	ogra	Kamping_Kaiser, better than german or italian :)
02:17	ogra	Kamping_Kaiser, what would you suggest? latin ?
02:17	Kamping_Kaiser	ogra, latin has class ;)
02:17	RichEd	Kamping_Kaiser: not sure ... I can ask the artist if you are interested
02:17	RichEd	Kamping_Kaiser: sure ... but is it relevant for modern kids ?
02:17	Kamping_Kaiser	RichEd, just a thought
02:18	RichEd	Kamping_Kaiser: I'll ask where she got the text from ...
02:18	pips1	well, there is already lots of latin text, if you noticed :-)
02:18	ogra	make a comment on the page :)
02:18	RichEd	the olde style writing is very nice methinks
02:18	Kamping_Kaiser	RichEd, i object to having <random culture> forced on me... i'm sure others do as well.
02:18	Kamping_Kaiser	ogra, ok
02:18	pips1	the only english text is "cell membrane" and "cell wall"
02:19	ogra	Kamping_Kaiser, but latin might be better, suggest it :)
02:19	RichEd	should we offer wallpapers in different languages ?
02:19	RichEd	:)
02:19	ogra	ugh
02:19	Kamping_Kaiser	lol
02:19	ogra	thats possible with svg though
02:19	pips1	and there is a greek symbol too.. pi
02:19	Kamping_Kaiser	localise it on the fly
02:19	ogra	you can embed translations
02:19	ogra	Kamping_Kaiser, dont laugh, its a cool concept :)
02:20	pips1	the whole artwork really says western scientific tradition.. :-)
02:20	ogra	oh, as you all might have noticed, there wont be a tribe 6 CD
02:20	ogra	and no freeze is going on
02:20	pips1	renaissance
02:20	ogra	beyond that we work *as if* there was a tribe 6 CD
02:20	Kamping_Kaiser	ogra, ii'm only half joking
02:21	ogra	(thats why i am so focused on the milestoned tribe6 bug)
02:21	pips1	Kamping_Kaiser: all art is rooted in culture
02:22	pips1	Kamping_Kaiser: are you suggesting we should have a 100% culturally free artwork?
02:22	Kamping_Kaiser	pips1, no.
02:22	pips1	:-)
02:22	Kamping_Kaiser	i'm aware of art+cultures links.
02:23	Kamping_Kaiser	its just there are some i like to be involve with/exposed to more then others
02:23	pips1	I'm sure you are, just pulling your leg
02:24	Kamping_Kaiser	not sure this is culture, but i'm wearing a powercalbe as a decoration ;)
02:25	RichEd	Kamping_Kaiser: well from your side ... why not try to find someone who can do us some maori art ?
02:25	pips1	ogra: what did you mean by "no freeze is going on"?
02:27	ogra	pips1, we can upload to the archive all the time
02:27	ogra	its not frozen for iso building
02:27	ogra	that makes bugfixing a lot easier
02:27	Kamping_Kaiser	RichEd, not sure, i certainly dont have any links in that area
02:28	pips1	ogra: ic, thanks for explanation
02:34	pips1	ogra: good luck with the bug fixing!ng
02:34	pips1	I got to go...
02:34	RichEd	ogra: any more from you ?
02:34	ogra	if nobody has additional questions i'll go back to fighting with debconf
02:35	RichEd	issues or questions anyone ?
02:35	RichEd	okay ... going once
02:35	Kamping_Kaiser	cant think of any
02:35	RichEd	okay ... going twice
02:36	RichEd	thats a wrap then
02:36	RichEd	thanks
02:36	ogra	:)
02:36	ogra	that was a quick one :)
02:37	RichEd	not many people here ... hence less discussion
</pre>
