{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



vector-based drawing program

=== Summary ===

Inkscape loads and saves a subset of the SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics)
format, a standard maintained by the WWW consortium.
 
Inkscape user interface should be familiar from CorelDraw and similar
drawing programs. There are rectangles, ellipses, text items, bitmap
images and freehand curves.
As an added bonus, both vector and bitmap objects can have alpha
transparency and can be arbitrarily transformed.
 
Inkscape supports multiple opened files and multiple views per file.
Graphics can be printed and exported to png bitmaps.
 
Some of the import and export features are provided using the packages
dia, libwmf-bin, pstoedit, skencil, imagemagick, and perlmagick.
 
Other extensions use ruby, libxml-xql-perl, python-numpy, and python-lxml.
You must have these packages to make full use of all extensions and effects.
 
If you want to use the spellchecker, you have to install aspell and the
respective language-pack, e.g. aspell-en or aspell-de.

=== Technical Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Type
| graphics
|-
| Age Range
| Recommended age range
|-
| Profile
| Edubuntu profile(s) that include this
|-
| Website
| http://www.inkscape.org/
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/inkscape
|-
| License
| License(s) the application is available under
|-
| Language
| C++, C
|-
| Toolkit
| Gnome, GTK
|}

=== Screenshots ===

{{http://screenshots.debian.net/screenshot/inkscape|inkscape Screenshot}}

If a screen shot is not available, submit your own according to the debian screenshot <nowiki>[[http://screenshots.debian.net/upload|guidelines]]</nowiki>.

=== User Comments ===

This space is for users to share their experiences and opinions about the application
