{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting August 22, 2007 ==
This is the Edubuntu Team Meeting, started on 22 August 2007, 12H00 - 14H00 (Etc/GMT).

== Attendance ==

* ogra
* RichEd
* juliux
* gpocentek
* highvoltage

== Agenda ==
* Technical
** Where are we in the development cycle:
   1. What was the last deadline?
   2. What is the next deadline ?
** Progress over the last week?
** Items needing to be sorted out for the next deadline.
** Issues needing assistance for the next deadline.
** Any Other Items under Artwork.
** Any Other Items under Documentation.
** Planned Activities for coming week.
 
== Minutes ==
* Where are we in the development cycle?
** ogra reports back as follows:
** General
*** Done:
*** lots of screensaver fixing for thin client usage (fixed several crashers, no graphics intensive modes being used anymore and no fading).
*** lots of merges and code reviews of ltsp/ldm code (still more ahead).
*** set spec status where possible (see list below).

*** Ahead:
*** TCM needs a lot of love (fixing the user list functions to get it going with new ldm, easier vnc setup for the chroot/image).
*** one massive bug outstanding to be solved before tribe 6 (bug 121547).
*** tribe 5 planned for this Thursday, please help tesing.
*** poking around with libflashsupport to get it to multiverse (flash sound on thin clients).
*** get moodle status from moquist (no news yet, he contacted pitti about postgres db creation scripts).
 
** Specs
*** Implemented:
*** ltsp-boot-performance.
*** ldm-improvements.
*** fully-automatic-swapserver.
*** ldm-loadbalancing -> vagrant to set status.
 
*** Deferred for gutsy+1:
*** ltspfs-virtual-hal-devices.
*** gphoto-ltspfs.
*** ltsp-update-manager-integration.
*** ltsp-management-gui -> (hope to get global settings going at least).
*** ltsp-fat-clients.
*** ltsp-local-apps -> sbalneav to set status.
  
*** Unknown:
*** ltsp-palm-devices -> sbalneav to report status.
 
* Where we are in the dev cycle?
** ogra noted that the last deadline was UVF/feature freeze.
** ogra noted that upstresam version freeze, nothing new can enter main anymore.
  
* What is the next deadline ... item and date?
** orga noted that feature freeze is no new features can be adeed anymore (same exception rules) & next immediate dealine is tribe5 (thursday).
  
* Items needing to be sorted out for the next deadline?
** ogra noted that the next important deadline is beta release.
** '''NOTE: '''bug 121547 needs to be solved before next tribe release.
** tribe6, archive is friozen this week until tribe5 is out.
** '''ACTION: ''' orga to squash bug 121547.
  
* Issues needing assistance for the next deadline?
** ogra noted that having two tribe releases instead of one before beta doesn't help here.
** moodle is still in the clouds, no feedback from mmoquist yet apart from him saying he wants to have it ready.
** sbalneav and vagrant need to clean up their spec statuses.
** '''ACTION: ''''ogra to follow up with sbalneav & vagrant.
 
* Artwork
** '''ACTION: ''' Jill to complete abstract concept for the default desktop.
** '''NOTE: ''' Final freeze for artwork: 20th September 2007.
 
* Documentation
** ogra noted that scott is currently busy with the documentation.
 
* General
** How do we get more users at the meeting?
** '''ACTION: '''RichEd: Investigate meeting advertising in the mail list.
** '''ACTION: '''RichEd: Look at the dates coming up and play a bit and then make some suggestions for alternative meeting dates and time for the Tech & Dev Meetings.
 
** German Ubucon
** '''juliux noted that the time and date will be: 20-21 October 2007, Krefeld/Germany'''

== Any Other Business ==
* None reported.

== IRC Logs ==

<pre>
02:02	RichEd	hi all ... start in 1 min ...
02:02	juliux	ogra, ubotu is not here;)
02:02	ogra	ah
02:03	RichEd	Okay ... here is a test version of the agenda for Edubuntu-Devel ... the old tech part of the 2 hour meeting.
02:03	RichEd	    *
02:03	RichEd	      Technical
02:03	RichEd	          o
02:03	RichEd	            Where are we in the development cycle:
02:03	RichEd	                +
02:03	RichEd	                  What was the last deadline ?
02:03	RichEd	                      #
02:03	RichEd	                        Item
02:03	RichEd	                      #
02:03	RichEd	                        Date
02:03	RichEd	                +
02:03	RichEd	                  What is the next deadline ?
02:03	RichEd	                      #
02:03	RichEd	                        Item
02:03	RichEd	                      #
02:03	RichEd	                        Date
02:03	RichEd	          o
02:03	RichEd	            Progress over the last week
02:03	RichEd	          o
02:03	RichEd	            Items needing to be sorted out for the next deadline
02:03	RichEd	          o
02:03	RichEd	            Issues needing assistance for the next deadline
02:03	RichEd	          o
02:03	RichEd	            Any Other Items under Artwork
02:03	RichEd	          o
02:04	RichEd	            Any Other Items under Documentation
02:04	RichEd	          o
02:04	RichEd	            Planned Activities for coming week
02:04	RichEd	let's try this out today and see if it works ... I'll drive the agenda.
02:04	RichEd	ogra: Where are we in the development cycle ?
02:04	RichEd	What was the last deadline ?
02:04	RichEd	Item
02:04	RichEd	Date
02:04	RichEd	??
02:04	RichEd	sorry about the shody paste ... wiki cut & paste adds line breaks :(
02:04	RichEd	*shoddy
02:05	ogra	well, lets see if my paste is better then :)
02:05	ogra	== General ==
02:05	ogra	Done:
02:05	ogra	- lots of screensaver fixing for thin client usage (fixed several crashers, no graphics intensive modes being used anymore and no fading)
02:05	ogra	- lots of merges and code reviews of ltsp/ldm code (still more ahead)
02:05	ogra	- set spec staus where possible (see list below)
02:05	ogra	Ahead:
02:05	ogra	- TCM needs a lot of love (fixing the userlist functions to get it going with new ldm, easier vnc setup for the chroot/image)
02:05	ogra	- one massive bug outstanding to be solved before tribe 6 (bug 121547)
02:05	ogra	- tribe 5 planned for this thursday, please help tesing
02:05	ogra	- poking around with libflashsupport to get it to multiverse (flash sound on thin clients)
02:06	ogra	- get moodle status from moquist (no news yet, he contacted pitti about postgres db creation scripts)
02:06	ogra	== Specs ==
02:06	ogra	Implemented:
02:06	ogra	- ltsp-boot-performance
02:06	ogra	- ldm-improvements
02:06	ogra	- fully-automatic-swapserver
02:06	ogra	- ldm-loadbalancing -> vagrant to set status
02:06	ogra	Deferred for gutsy+1:
02:06	ogra	- ltspfs-virtual-hal-devices
02:06	ogra	- gphoto-ltspfs
02:06	ogra	- ltsp-update-manager-integration
02:06	ogra	- ltsp-management-gui -> (hope to get global settings going at least)
02:06	ogra	- ltsp-fat-clients
02:06	ogra	- ltsp-local-apps -> sbalneav to set status
02:06	ogra	Unknown:
02:06	ogra	- ltsp-palm-devices -> sbalneav to report status
02:06	ogra	i'll try to maintain such a report in the future, should keep the tech part short
02:07	RichEd	that's great :) ... will be easy to make minutes & action list out of that ...
02:07	zul	./topic
02:07	zul	sorry
02:07	ogra	right
02:07	ogra	zul, ubotu is gone, so no topic updates atm ...
02:07	RichEd	can we work through my section suggestions ... to see how it fits together ... I still think we need contest as to where we are in the dev cycle (I know I do) :)
02:07	ogra	(edubuntu meeting now)
02:07	RichEd	What was the last deadline ?
02:08	RichEd	What is the next deadline ?
02:08	ogra	no idea ?
02:08	RichEd	I mean in terms of the dev cycle ... last one was tribe 4 ?
02:08	gpocentek	ogra: I think I have a libflashsupport somewhere if it can help
02:08	gpocentek	a package*
02:08	ogra	last deadline was UVF/feature freeze
02:09	ogra	gpocentek, i have one ready already, but it was rejected, the one from the EdubuntuFAQ is horribly packaged
02:09	RichEd	ah ... and explain that in 1 sentence for the technically challenged ... what is UVF ?
02:09	ogra	i need to get it going with gnutls instead of libssl etc to get it included
02:09	gpocentek	ogra: ok
02:09	ogra	upstresam version freeze
02:09	ogra	nothing new can enter main anymore
02:09	RichEd	:) thanks
02:10	ogra	(unless you do a bit of paperwork and get a review)
02:10	RichEd	and what is the next deadline ... item and date ?
02:10	ogra	feture freeze is no new features can be adeed anymore (same exception rules)
02:10	ogra	next immediate dealine is tribe5 (thursday)
02:10	RichEd	* Items needing to be sorted out for the next deadline ?
02:10	ogra	next important deadline is beta release
02:11	ogra	bug 121547 needs to be solved before next tribe release
02:11	toutouff	I've got a problem with pbuilder, could you help me ?
02:11	ogra	(tribe6, archive is friozen this week until tribe5 is out)
02:11	ogra	toutouff, we're in the middle of a meeting and this is no support channel, try #ubuntu-motu
02:12	toutouff	sorry, wrong channel
02:12	toutouff	:/
02:12	RichEd	ogra: quick summary of the bug ? and what needs to be done to squash it ?
02:12	ogra	i need to rewrite the installed bits for ltsp
02:13	RichEd	and will you be able to manage in time for the deadline ?
02:13	ogra	https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltsp/+bug/121547
02:13	ogra	at least for beta i can guarantee it ... cant promise it for tribe 6
02:13	ogra	but i'll do my best
02:13	RichEd	* Issues needing assistance for the next deadline ?
02:13	ogra	having two tribe releases instead of one before beta doesnt help here :/
02:14	RichEd	can anyone help you with that bug or anything else ?
02:14	ogra	not wi5th that bug, no
02:14	ogra	i listed actions above where others are required
02:15	ogra	moodle is still in the clouds, no feedback from mmoquist yet apart from him saying he wants to have it ready
02:15	ogra	sbalneav and vagrant need to clean up theoir spec statuses
02:15	RichEd	will you prod them, or will it help if i ask nicely as well :)
02:15	ogra	beyond that i get all help i can get from scottie during this bugfixing phase
02:16	ogra	i'll go after them, all fine
02:16	highvoltage	ogra: is vagrant doing full-time ltsp now?
02:16	ogra	no
02:16	ogra	he's doing freegek
02:16	ogra	*freegeek
02:16	highvoltage	ah
02:17	ogra	he still didnt get his stuff sorted
02:17	RichEd	* Any Other Items under Artwork
02:18	ogra	anyway, thats all from tech side, any other questions ?
02:18	ogra	not yet ... i'll need to tackle the artwork package and do some cleanups .. but thats for tribe6
02:18	RichEd	Fine ... Jill mailed to say thanks for the feedback in the meeting last week.
02:18	ogra	scott is already preparing docs for the new ltsp stuff we have
02:19	RichEd	I mentioned the abstract concept for the default desktop, and she said she would try to complete some she had started.
02:19	ogra	good
02:19	ogra	i'm fine with the one we have as "young" flavor
02:19	RichEd	When is the final freeze for artwork ?
02:19	RichEd	official and unofficial ;)
02:19	ogra	(the logo could be a bit less in the face though)
02:20	RichEd	are you talking about her sample ? the logo comment ?
02:20	highvoltage	RichEd: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GutsyReleaseSchedule
02:20	ogra	sept 20th is final
02:20	ogra	yes
02:20	ogra	i'm talking about the sample
02:20	RichEd	okay ... i'll add that to the comment page she is working off
02:20	ogra	the logo is very huge and to much in the face imho
02:21	RichEd	I wanted to give her samples of all of the old default desktops we shipped, but art.ubuntu.com is out of action
02:21	RichEd	So I have given her the 2 I have access to ... LTS and feisty
02:21	ogra	osdir ususally has a bunch
02:21	RichEd	osdir ? not familiar with that ?
02:21	ogra	LTS was the chalkboard ...
02:21	ogra	osdir.com
02:21	RichEd	okay will check for more ...
02:22	ogra	edgy and feisty were the best ones we had yet
02:22	RichEd	* Any Other Items under Documentation
02:22	ogra	as i said, scott is on it and i'll review
02:22	RichEd	okay ... is that it for tech then ? anyone with questions ?
02:23	RichEd	Okay .... some general discussion for people who are interested:
02:23	RichEd	* how do we get more users at the meeting ?
02:24	RichEd	I can advertise in the mail list, but I need to get an idea of what topics will pull people in to attend.
02:24	juliux	RichEd, for me one meeting per weeks is too much
02:25	juliux	RichEd, if it would be only once a month then there could be more topics and more people
02:25	ogra	juliux, well, we have different people at the differently scheduled meetings
02:25	RichEd	juliux: so would you suggest tech every week, and users once a month ?
02:25	juliux	RichEd, yes
02:25	RichEd	If we have a edubuntu-users section of the meeting, we can start some debate / poll topics on the mail list, and then meet to discuss monthly ?
02:25	RichEd	so keep it down to 1 hour per week for tech & general dev ...
02:25	ogra	one in the evening and one in the morning
02:26	juliux	ogra, that is also fine
02:26	ogra	and we need to find a solution for EC if we do that as well
02:26	RichEd	that would work for me as well ... every second week ...
02:26	RichEd	but then we are always at the same time ... no variance for the US people
02:26	ogra	RichEd, twice a month with alternating times
02:26	ogra	as we have iot now, but skip two a month
02:27	RichEd	perhaps first meeting of the month ... and do the EC stuff ... and then 3 weeks after that ?
02:27	RichEd	that will alternate the times ?
02:27	ogra	yeah
02:27	juliux	RichEd, one meeting in the morning one in the evening;)
02:28	RichEd	okay, let me look at the dates coming up ... and play a bit and then make some suggestions
02:28	ogra	good
02:28	RichEd	pips1 is not here for community
02:29	RichEd	I have nothing else to discuss for today ... and some conference calls coming up ...
02:29	RichEd	Anyone else with topics / questions ?
02:29	juliux	yeah
02:29	juliux	i want to invite you all the german ubucon;) we will have an extra education track
02:29	RichEd	great :)
02:30	RichEd	have you got a fridge article up ?
02:30	juliux	RichEd, yes
02:30	RichEd	and did you send a mail to the edubuntu lists ?
02:30	juliux	RichEd, there will be an other if the programm is online
02:30	juliux	RichEd, that will come next week
02:30	RichEd	good ... what sort of audience are you expecting ? size and type of person ?
02:31	RichEd	and give the dates and locations here in the channel, so it can go in the minutes
02:31	juliux	we hope betwenn 200 and 500 people
02:31	juliux	and there will we everything from developer over normal users to newbies
02:31	RichEd	all linux converts already, or some people looking to jump in ?
02:31	juliux	date is 20. and 21. october in krefeld/germany
02:32	juliux	we think some new people
02:32	juliux	the university will invite local schools
02:32	RichEd	do you need any more material / presentations / ubuntu stuff ?
02:32	juliux	we only need talks;)
02:32	cliebow__	ttfn
02:33	RichEd	I have a presentation on Edubuntu reference cases ... if someone is prepared to speak on that, I can help them with the slides ?
02:34	RichEd	okay ... any other issues for today ?
02:34	RichEd	ogra ... are you okay to wind up now ?
02:34	juliux	RichEd, cool
02:34	ogra	sure :)
02:34	RichEd	going once ...
02:34	RichEd	going twice ...
02:35	RichEd	BONG ... thanks all
</pre>
