{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting January 17, 2007 ==
=== Technical ===
* SCP now known as LTCM (Linux Thin Client Manager)
** split into frontend and backend
=== Artwork ===
* More discussions on merging/leveraging the Edubuntu and Ubuntu communities
* Feisty has a closed design involving Cliff and sabdfl
** Find out more on the policies for contribution
=== Documentation ===
* Discussions on online vs offline docs
* Discussion on processes for generating docs from online content
* Consider scope of Handbook vs what priority docs we need for Feisty
* cbx33 is going to write Edubuntu Chapter in the Ubuntu Book
<pre>
09:05	pips1	willvdl: will you pace us through the agenda?
09:05	willvdl	Well, let's get started anyway
09:05	willvdl	=== TECHNICAL ===
09:05	willvdl	If ogra were here, I'm sure he'd ask for testers...
09:06	willvdl	not sure how much we can cover in tech
09:06	sbalneav	I'll be doing some testing of thin client sound this weekend.
09:06	cbx33	nice one sbalneav
09:06	willvdl	great, ogra mentioned sound architecture last week
=== cbx33 has an update on LTCM(SCP)
09:07	cbx33	I have started the LTCM spec
09:07	cbx33	it's now successfully broken up into front end and back end
09:07	cbx33	which is awesome
09:07	willvdl	aha. saw those discussions
09:07	cbx33	today I worked for a little while on the tiled vnc feature that everyone wanted
09:08	cbx33	and I actually got it working
09:08	cbx33	borrowed some code from somewhere else
09:08	cbx33	but it's all GPL so we're good
09:08	willvdl	sweet
09:08	cbx33	that's me done
09:08	cbx33	anyone who wants to test it for me
09:08	cbx33	shout
09:09	willvdl	what does the "split" mean as such?
09:09	cbx33	well
09:09	cbx33	it will allow a KDE developer to write a kde front end for LTCM
09:09	cbx33	since they can just import the backend module and all the hard stuff is done for them
09:09	willvdl	ah. with clear api etc
09:09	cbx33	indeed
09:10	cbx33	and the backend is actually tiny
09:10	cbx33	the gui takes up most code
=== pips1 is trying to figure out the acronym... Linux Terminal Control Manager? Erm...
09:10	Riddell	cbx33: what is LTCM?
09:10	cbx33	LTSP Thin Client Manager
09:11	cbx33	however for now the vnc stuff will only be in the gnome version
09:11	willvdl	looking forward to seeing it in action
09:11	cbx33	as a) no one has stepped up to write a kde version yet and b) the code I hacked up was from a gnome app and I'm not sure how well it can be split
09:12	pips1	so LTCM (LTSP Thin Client Manager) is now the official new name for SCP (Student Control Panel)?
09:12	cbx33	yes
09:12	cbx33	oh and I spotted a bug in SCP which should be fixed soon
09:12	pips1	right
09:13	willvdl	I can't imagine you've had much time for the MOTD thingy?
09:13	cbx33	unfortunately no
09:13	cbx33	not yet
09:13	cbx33	It's still a possibility
09:13	cbx33	infact it's SOOO simple to implement
09:14	willvdl	shall we move on?
09:14	pips1	Is anyone present expecting to be able to test Herd 2, 3, ... (besides sbalneav)?
09:14	cbx33	sure
09:14	cbx33	unfortunately I won't have time
09:15	pips1	let's move on..
09:15	willvdl	let's skip to Artwork if no-one minds?
09:15	cbx33	sure
09:15	cbx33	Lisa is sorry she can't attend this evening
09:15	willvdl	=== ARTWORK ===
09:15	cbx33	she hasnt had a great deal of time lately....been very very busy with paid work
09:16	cbx33	but she is still working hard...and really really needs your feedback
09:16	willvdl	Canonical is going to employ an ubuntu artist
09:16	cbx33	for edubuntu too?
09:16	willvdl	need to see how that works out
09:17	cbx33	ok
09:17	willvdl	cbx33, feedback on templates, pallettes etc?
09:17	cbx33	I think shes talking about the mock wallpaper she did a while back
09:17	cbx33	but
09:17	cbx33	I think they'll be some more before not too long to comment on
09:17	cbx33	also
09:17	cbx33	if anyeone knows of any budding artist
09:17	cbx33	please get them involved
09:18	willvdl	let's tap the Ubuntu Artwork channel
09:18	willvdl	make a formal "call for contributions"?
09:19	cbx33	well we have done that in the past
09:19	cbx33	I'll get lisa to mail them tonight
09:19	pips1	Does the Artwork Team have its own introduction/welcome page somewhere?
09:19	willvdl	sweet. just good to voice ourselves I guess
09:19	cbx33	yes
09:19	willvdl	EdubuntuArtwork
09:19	cbx33	people just don't seem keen to help out Edubuntu much
09:20	willvdl	perhaps we need to make it easier for them
09:20	willvdl	somehow...
09:20	highvoltage	willvdl: i agree with you
09:20	cbx33	me too
09:20	cbx33	I just don;t know how
09:21	willvdl	I'm don't hang around the artwork channels much or browse the contributions but there are a lot of folk contributing to Ubuntu art
09:21	cbx33	yeh
09:21	cbx33	ok I'll draft up an email...
09:21	willvdl	if we have representation in those channels then well get stuff I'm sure
09:21	cbx33	ok if I run it by you willvdl ?
09:21	willvdl	sure
=== pips1 glances at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork
09:22	willvdl	Is there anyway we can merge our Artowrk "space" with the ubuntu artwork "space"?
09:22	cbx33	hmmm
09:22	cbx33	possibly I suppose
09:23	willvdl	quote: feisty will be designed by cliff
09:23	LaserJock	hi everybody
09:23	highvoltage	hey LaserJock
09:23	willvdl	as with dapper. how did that affect edubuntu back then?
09:23	LaserJock	uggg
09:24	highvoltage	dapper was a tough one
09:24	LaserJock	willvdl: armed revolt? :-)
09:24	pips1	"Feisty artwork will be design by Cliff -- the fellow who designed the Dapper look. Do not expect to be able to contribute until sabdfl releases the official work. It is closed design involving Cliff and sabdfl only."
09:24	highvoltage	ogra and janew weren't very happy that they didn't have any say in the artwork
09:24	cbx33	does that include edubuntu do we know?
09:24	willvdl	did edubuntu do its own artwork in dapper?
09:24	highvoltage	willvdl: hired artist
09:25	willvdl	for backgrounds, splash and icons?
09:25	highvoltage	willvdl: except for icons
09:25	cbx33	we had a wallpaper in main though didn't we
09:25	pips1	"Currently we are attempting to collect all art related people under the ubuntu-art team on Launchpad. This has been quite successful thus far, and therefore one should consider the ubuntu-art team as a good starting point for work. For links to legacy pages, please see the following links: EdubuntuArtwork ..."
09:25	willvdl	legacy pages
09:26	pips1	hmm
09:26	cbx33	sounds old
09:26	LaserJock	is there a rationale behind not letting the community do the artwork?
09:26	LaserJock	it seems to go back and forth, kinda annoying
09:26	pips1	yeah
09:26	willvdl	http://art.ubuntu.com/main.php
09:27	willvdl	anyway, it is still very valuable to have contributions regardless of closed design
09:27	cbx33	well for a start we have more than just one wallpaper
09:27	pips1	oh, I didn't know they had revanped the art.u.c site
09:27	highvoltage	LaserJock: I don't think there's anythin wrong with Canonical hiring people to improve Ubuntu's artwork... but... \
09:27	pips1	*revamped
09:27	cbx33	highvoltage, I agree
09:27	highvoltage	LaserJock: if there are better community submisions, it should be considered too, imho
09:28	cbx33	maybe for get someone behind it to drive it in right direction
09:28	LaserJock	highvoltage: but they won't consider them if they are already contracting people, it would be a waste of money
09:28	willvdl	highvoltage, LaserJock : that is how I would expect things to be run
09:28	cbx33	so will that be for Edubuntu too.....?
09:28	cbx33	can we confirm this
09:29	willvdl	just like Canonical hires kernel developers
09:29	highvoltage	cbx33: by ubuntu I mean *buntu
09:29	willvdl	cbx33, I will check
09:29	cbx33	ah ok
09:29	LaserJock	willvdl: it's a bit different, IMO
09:29	willvdl	LaserJock, only if handled badly
09:29	LaserJock	which it seems to have been historically
09:29	LaserJock	artwork that is
09:29	cbx33	basically how much should we push the artwork in Edubuntu
09:30	cbx33	and how much is going to be forced upon us
09:30	LaserJock	the Canonical hired kernel guys work in the open with patches, ML etc.
09:30	LaserJock	generally we get to see the artwork when it's released
09:30	willvdl	My opinion is to push contributions anyway
09:30	willvdl	what we build now can always be used later or even make it in if the process allows
09:31	willvdl	plus we keep the community active
09:31	pips1	willvdl: but it's not very encouraging for designers, if the aren't any clear known "rules"
09:31	cbx33	exactl
09:31	cbx33	y
09:31	pips1	clear procedures... so you know what to expect and what not to expect
09:31	cbx33	it's pretty upsetting infact
09:31	willvdl	agreed, but note that art.u.c gets contributions regardless
09:31	cbx33	when someone has worked really hard ....
09:31	cbx33	willvdl, it's a little different
09:32	LaserJock	especially when the dev community all say the want a community artwork and are ignored
09:32	LaserJock	*they
09:32	cbx33	because edubuntu last relase had 2 contributors
09:32	cbx33	so it makes it a little more personal
09:32	willvdl	I hear you guys and agree
09:32	willvdl	I'm just saying we should not stop contributing
09:33	cbx33	no, but can you see how.....in a big community like ubuntu it just means a drop in contributions
09:33	cbx33	but that with a tiny team....2 people that can make or break the contributions full stop
09:34	willvdl	yeah.
=== pips1 reads the introduction on http://art.ubuntu.com/main.php
09:34	willvdl	OK, PoA:
09:34	LaserJock	especially when the community isn't consulted at all
09:34	pips1	cbx33: good point
09:34	willvdl	will check on procedures, policies etc internally
09:35	cbx33	also....
09:35	willvdl	and, seperate issue, try and integrate more with artwork team for leverage?
09:35	pips1	ok, willvdl to report back at the next meeting :-)
09:35	willvdl	just not sure immediately how to achieve the latter
09:36	willvdl	There's definately enough concern on the issue to raise it
09:37	pips1	how relevant is https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-art ?
09:37	pips1	... to edubuntu artwork, I mean
09:38	highvoltage	pips1: fairly
09:38	highvoltage	pips1: edubuntu inherits some of the ubuntu artwork stuff
09:38	highvoltage	pips1: like firefox themes, etx
09:38	highvoltage	*etc
09:38	willvdl	any *buntu artwork work should include/be relevant to edubuntu IMHO
09:38	highvoltage	pips1: and the edubuntu gtk theme is normally derived from whatever theme is in use on edubuntu
09:38	highvoltage	I mean, Ubuntu
09:40	willvdl	Okie, lets discuss further on ML and I'll try find out what I can
09:40	cbx33	ok
09:41	pips1	In that case, it might be a good idea to link to that launchpad specifications page from the artwork wiki page, so the community artists (i.e. AliasVegas) know what is done for ubuntu...
09:41	willvdl	from EdubuntuArtwork?
09:41	pips1	yep
09:42	pips1	just a thought
09:42	willvdl	what interests me is that the artwork team consider EdubuntuArt as legacy page
09:42	willvdl	assuming the community is already integrated
09:42	cbx33	yeh...funny that
09:42	willvdl	We should fix that
09:42	cbx33	i don't remember anyone talking to Lisa about it ;)
09:43	willvdl	it's a perception
09:43	pips1	well things are always moving fast in ubuntu land :-) and it's hard to keep up with what is going on everywhere
09:43	willvdl	:)
09:44	willvdl	shall we move to docs?
09:44	cbx33	ok
09:44	willvdl	=== Documentation ===
09:45	willvdl	I've been thinking about doc contributions somewhat
09:45	willvdl	and have chatted to a number of folk
09:45	cbx33	ok
09:45	willvdl	on wiki contributions vs SVN contributions
09:46	willvdl	meaning wiki = open collaboration
09:46	willvdl	and svn = open collaboration but large barrier
09:46	willvdl	how do you folks feel?
09:47	LaserJock	depends on the doc, IMO
=== tommy [n=tommy@83.167.116.108] has joined #ubuntu-meeting
09:47	willvdl	true
09:47	pips1	wiki = medium barrier too, AFAIK
09:47	LaserJock	if you want it stable and need to be in various formats do docbook
09:47	LaserJock	with svn
09:48	willvdl	yip, but the svn authors can pull their info form the wiki
09:48	willvdl	if the wiki is used as the "development" space
09:48	pips1	hold on, we are talking about a variety of tools and formats here...
09:48	willvdl	true
09:48	pips1	docbook = format
09:49	pips1	svn = versioned repository
09:49	pips1	wiki = versioned repository with web frontend
09:49	pips1	no?
09:50	willvdl	yip
09:50	willvdl	also docs in svn get packaged
09:50	LaserJock	wiki also = format
09:50	pips1	willvdl: how do you imagine your "perfect" documentation process?
09:51	willvdl	perfect? :)
09:51	willvdl	well, I'm just again trying to leverage contributions
09:51	pips1	LaserJock: ok, wiki stores the information in its own format, that's right
09:51	willvdl	and was thinking back to a conversation I had with pips1 vefore the holidays
09:52	willvdl	and others
09:52	willvdl	being that the wiki is the easiest and most open tool and repo we have for contributions
09:53	willvdl	Would something like this work?: Docs get planned and "authored" to a degree on the wiki. At logical times the SVN authors pull this info into the docbook files
09:54	pips1	well, ideally we could have a super userfriendly "frontend" tool combined with the benefits of a standard format such as docbook...
09:54	willvdl	although my suggestion is contrary to using Launchpad, bug-reporting etc
09:54	pips1	how so?
=== pips1 isn't sure he is following willvdl
09:55	LaserJock	I'm not sure that easy contribution is always the way to go though ...
09:55	willvdl	perhaps LaserJock can help me here, but LP tracks the docs (in whatever format) and contributions are made in patches, bug-reports or specs
09:55	LaserJock	sometimes a little barrier isn't a bad thing
09:56	LaserJock	well, we have an upstream product
09:56	LaserJock	people can file bugs against that
09:56	LaserJock	and we can write specs
09:56	LaserJock	patches are sent to the ML
09:57	willvdl	perhaps we should take a step back here
09:57	willvdl	and look at what docs we are needing
09:58	willvdl	We need an install guide prob
09:59	willvdl	release-notes & about page
10:00	willvdl	and LTSP info as it forms part of our release
10:00	willvdl	given the topics, and the authors, what would the best tools be?
10:03	willvdl	pips1 what are your thoughts?
10:04	sbalneav	Sorry to interject, but is the svn repo for the handbook still on digitalredneck?
10:04	willvdl	nope. moved into docteam.u.c
10:05	sbalneav	Do I still have commit?
10:05	pips1	Off the top of my head: About (Intro/Overview, Release Notes, Sources of further help, ...), Installation and Configuration Guide (Desktop Guide, Server Guide, plus specifically LTSP), Customisation ("Cookbook"), plus How to contribute to Edubuntu Project.
10:05	willvdl	sbalneav, best check with mdke or someone
10:05	willvdl	not sure
10:06	cbx33	sorry guys I'm gonna have to duck out, splitting headache
10:06	willvdl	pips1 the "guides": meaning the ubuntu ones or our own?
10:06	cbx33	and tired
10:07	pips1	willvdl: we can probably reuse the "Ubuntu Guides", but I haven't really looked into that, so I don't really know.
10:08	willvdl	I'd like to open a discussion on the handbook aim again. I think things have move along alot since it was created
10:08	LaserJock	well, it's also noteworthy that Ubuntu and Kubuntu are moving away from "guides"
10:09	pips1	The Desktop Guide and the Server Guide from Ubuntu are shipped with Edubuntu anyway, right?
10:09	willvdl	pips1, have you looked at the Topic Based Help spec?
10:09	willvdl	thinks so
10:09	pips1	LaserJock: tell us more?
10:10	LaserJock	right now, Edubuntu ships ubuntu-docs
10:10	pips1	yep
10:10	LaserJock	pips1: the doc team is going for a more topic based approach
10:10	LaserJock	so if we just basically created add-on topics to cover Edubuntu specifics
=== pips1 reads https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/topic-based-help
10:11	LaserJock	we can "blend in" with the rest of Ubuntu docs
10:11	LaserJock	and there would be no duplication
10:11	willvdl	LaserJock, this would be the domain of the Handbook right?
10:12	pips1	In the spec it says "The Ubuntu/Kubuntu documentation teams do not have the resources to implement a topic-based help system from scratch. So for now we should restrict our efforts to reorganizing the Desktop Guide and Server Guide, to make the documentation easier to navigate."
10:12	LaserJock	willvdl: what I'm saying is that I'm not sure that a "Handbook" fits in with the way documentation in Ubuntu and upstream are heading
10:13	LaserJock	it's fine for a book, or an all-inclusive PDF or something
10:13	LaserJock	which I think there would be a demand for
10:13	willvdl	LaserJock, I chatted to Sean Wheller about that earlier
10:13	willvdl	and looked at the original aim of the handbook again
10:13	LaserJock	but I think you could do that with the TBH approach anyway
10:13	willvdl	and I think you're right in a sense
10:15	willvdl	But the handbook aim was as an install/customisation/basic usage guide?
10:15	LaserJock	it was meant by Mario to be a book
10:15	sbalneav	LTSP, though, isn't something that fits well into TBH.  There's a lot of pre-tech stuff, and the whole "integration into my windows network" thing's a pain.
10:15	LaserJock	the one-stop shop for Edubuntu
10:15	willvdl	sbalneav, I thought you might say that
10:16	willvdl	LaserJock, it can still be but we need TBH to "mature" first
10:16	willvdl	IMHO
10:16	sbalneav	The problem with LTSP is, it's really a "tech" thing, and not a user thing.
10:16	LaserJock	sbalneav: well, I'm not sure why having a "Configuring an LTSP Server" would be a had topic
10:16	LaserJock	s/had/bad/
10:17	LaserJock	ok, so I think the decision needs to be made there
10:17	willvdl	it becomes an interesting topic to squeeze in since it depends on the specific network topology
10:17	LaserJock	what do you want to present in the user's help system
10:17	LaserJock	and what do you want to provide online
10:17	sbalneav	It would be a big topic.  Usually TBH is supposed to be "short snapper" type help, isn't it?  Or am I smoking crack again?
10:17	LaserJock	sbalneav: ideally yeah
10:18	LaserJock	sbalneav: but we have the Server Guide in there
10:18	LaserJock	which isn't all that non-tech
10:18	sbalneav	I'm good either way.
10:18	willvdl	LTSP would fit into the server guide logically right?
10:18	sbalneav	Right.
10:18	LaserJock	I think you guys should take a look at the feisty docs
10:19	LaserJock	just to get a feel for what it's like
10:19	willvdl	but, as I understand from ogra, installing it ontop of ubuntu versus out of edubuntu is slightly difference
10:19	LaserJock	and see if you think it could fit in well there
10:19	willvdl	*different
10:19	LaserJock	willvdl: Ubuntu users wouldn't see it
10:20	willvdl	LaserJock, the doc? or ltsp?
10:20	LaserJock	ltsp stuff
10:20	willvdl	but thry could if they chose
10:20	LaserJock	that's what I'm saying, LTSP would be inserted into the help system on Edubuntu machines
10:21	LaserJock	if they installed edubuntu-docs
10:21	willvdl	cool. so we definitely need LTSP doc & LTCM (SCP) doc
10:22	LaserJock	well, you don't have a ton of time for all this
10:22	willvdl	plus install guide & customisation guide as a first priority?
10:23	LaserJock	String Freeze is March 8th
10:23	willvdl	I know
10:23	willvdl	and I'm not around for much of Feb or March
10:23	LaserJock	well, I still think you need to seperate out exactly what you want for shipped material vs. online material
10:24	willvdl	trying to
10:24	willvdl	personally I'd like as much as possible shipped.
10:25	willvdl	sbalneav, you're putting your stuff in the handbook right?
10:26	pips1	sbalneav: regarding your 'short snapper' comment earlier... I just discovered the useful tips on writing help docs here : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuHelp/PageStructure
10:27	willvdl	pips1, something else we should maybe look at...
10:28	willvdl	some of our docs are in the drupal CMS. maybe start moving them to the svn?
10:29	willvdl	I've also been reading your various planning pages for the web/wiki
10:30	pips1	did you make any sense from them?
10:31	willvdl	yeah. alot had to do with setting up drupal site. looots of info
10:31	willvdl	good stuff
10:31	willvdl	I'd like to chat to you later or tomorrow about some content?
10:32	pips1	willvdl: I agree with LaserJock that there is a difference between shipped / "solid" documentation and online / flexible documentation...
10:32	willvdl	yes.
10:32	willvdl	just trying to decide what we should work on as priority for shipped docs
10:32	pips1	ok
10:33	pips1	and there needs to be a process for moving and refining online/in flux docs to shippable documentation
10:33	willvdl	yip. what I was asking earlier
10:34	willvdl	depends on the doc and author
10:34	willvdl	Specifically the release-notes and About page can be handled like that
10:35	pips1	They way I see it, we will have community members' "input" in both drupal and the wiki...
10:35	willvdl	well not the drupal... ?
10:35	pips1	drupal will have forums, and eventually community members will write stuff that is worthy and valid documentation... ?
10:36	willvdl	but there is ubuntuforums.org?
10:37	willvdl	anyway, I am following you
10:37	pips1	(drupal also has a nice "book" content type, for "sequential"/ordered content).
10:38	willvdl	pips1, how do you envisage using something like that for community contribution?
10:38	willvdl	sine it is not really a versioning tool...
10:38	pips1	willvdl: RichEd and me discussed the "filtering" process at UDS MV... we haven't quite gone into implementational details (with Drupal) yet.
10:39	willvdl	ah, you mean the community education site? or www.edubuntu.org?
10:40	pips1	(willvdl: note I'm not sure if / I don't actually think we want to use the "drupal book" content type at all). I guess I shouldn't have mentioned it.
10:40	pips1	willvdl: I'm talking about the community site
10:40	willvdl	no worries, it's the concept that's important
10:40	willvdl	pips1 something else I'd like to push with doc team is the Quality Assurance spec
10:41	pips1	link ?
10:41	willvdl	which has policies for Release sensitive help pages
=== willvdl looks
10:42	pips1	ohhh, that would be very interesting indeed
10:42	willvdl	https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/+spec/help-wiki-quality-assurance
10:42	willvdl	so that we don't confuse edgy docs with dapper etc.
10:43	willvdl	I think it's very easy to do.
10:43	pips1	willvdl: explain how...
10:43	willvdl	edgy pages go in a edgy sub-page
10:43	willvdl	or have an edgy name space for example
10:44	willvdl	EdubuntuEdgyXXXXX
10:44	willvdl	or EdubuntuXXXXX/Edgy/
10:44	dsas	Or says at the top of the page. "Applies to Edgy and Feisty"
10:45	willvdl	dsas, yip. or even categories
10:45	dsas	easier then for docs that apply to multiple releases to not have redundant copies.
10:45	willvdl	but namesacing makes it easier for scripts and preserves namespace for future release docs
10:45	willvdl	dsas, redirects
=== pips1 notes that the spec is for improving the functionality of moin moin wiki, but the spec is new, so it probably won't be implemented shortly (?)
10:46	willvdl	anyway it's a topic for debate in the doc-team
10:46	willvdl	not edubuntu
10:47	willvdl	OK we need to wrap up. Let's flag the Online/Offline doc inclusion as an Unresolved Issue
10:47	pips1	I will just note that on the future edubuntu community space, we can simply use drupal's tagging feature
10:48	willvdl	cool. tags will work too
10:49	willvdl	pips1 are you around tomorrow morning?
10:49	pips1	hmm
10:49	willvdl	or friday?
10:50	pips1	friday is better, I got a bunch of work I need to do tomorrow
10:50	pips1	let's set a time
10:50	willvdl	cool. just want to confirm some stuff with you
10:50	willvdl	let's set time after meeting
10:51	pips1	ok
10:51	willvdl	Anyone want to bring anything else to the table?
10:51	willvdl	Oh, cbx33 is going to write the Edubuntu chapter in the Ubuntu Book!!!
10:51	willvdl	He wants a call for suggestions/ feedback etc.
10:51	pips1	heh
10:52	willvdl	Let's give him some support on this, it's good for us :)
10:52	willvdl	Okie going once?
10:53	pips1	are you talking about the printed book, or wha?
10:53	willvdl	yip
10:53	pips1	*what?
10:53	pips1	ah
10:53	willvdl	official ubuntu book
10:53	willvdl	going twice?
10:53	pips1	ah.. an updated version, I take it... what is the timeline for it?
10:54	willvdl	no idea unfortunately
10:54	willvdl	best ask cbx33 :)
10:54	pips1	righty
10:55	willvdl	Okie, six minutes short of two hours and we've covered some serious debate :)
10:55	willvdl	let's take the edubuntu doc discussion to the ML and to the ubuntu-doc team
10:56	pips1	Good to hear about all that documentation thoughts..
10:56	willvdl	pips1 it is a big and confusing monster
10:56	willvdl	but fun
10:56	pips1	:-)
10:57	willvdl	OK, thrice. thanks folks. I'll have minutes up as soon as possible
10:57	pips1	Thanks
10:58	pips1	cu all!
10:59	willvdl	ciao
</pre>
