{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

CategoryRedirect

The Edubuntu Website can be found at http://www.edubuntu.org

Most of the information on the website is regarded as "static" and by this we mean "unchanging". Information on Edubuntu releases, links to the wiki, community contacts etc. can all be found on the website and is not information that changes very often.

== Website Team ==
To contribute to the website, please join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-website|Edubuntu Website Team]]</nowiki> in <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

Suggestions, bugs or general contributions can be made by:
* Sending a mail to the Doc-Team Mailing List
* Filing <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Launchpad|Launchpad]]</nowiki> Bug-Reports against the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/|Ubuntu Website Project]]</nowiki>
** Quicklink: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/+bugs
** Please follow website submission procedures for preventing duplicate bugs

== Website Planning ==

## update - remove obsolete content and update existing content to Gutsy
## facelift - new theme
## enhance - get some more useful information, and links to things like wiki pages and help.ubuntu.com
## invigorate - have a better frontpage, one that changes often

== Website TODO ==
==== edubuntu.org cleanup ====
the following edubuntu.org pages should be updated:
** The Applications
** Edubuntu Community
** Help & Support
** Screenshots
** Documentation
** Download Edubuntu
** Glossary
the following edubuntu.org pages should be considered for removal:
** DraftDownload
** Getting Started
** Thin client configuration
** Using the Classroom Server Add-on CD
** Using Edubuntu
** Frequently Asked Questions
the following edubuntu.org pages should be considered for renaming:
** Getting Started with Edubuntu (6.06 specific, may want to remove)

==== wiki.ubuntu.com cleanup ====
## content on wiki.ubuntu.com that is directed towards users should go to either help.ubuntu.com or edubuntu.org.
## the Edubuntu namespace should be such that people can easily find relevant and current development information. Don't overengineer.
