{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the planning page for Edubuntu documentation, both content and procedures.

== Planning ==
A new suggestion has been made to use ''Recipes'', much like the <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes|MOTU recipes]]</nowiki>. The idea being that Edubuntu members can be asked to write a ''recipe'' for practically anything, e.g.:
* recording their Edubuntu lab setup
* best practices
* notes on using a piece of software
* LTSP setup
* applicability of FLOSS for education
This is being seen as the best way to capture user documentation and feedback for the handbook, help wiki, yelp (TBH) etc.

There are a number of options for using and presenting this information. '''We need to decide on a procedure.'''

=== Option 1 ===
* recipes are captured on the wiki: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdubuntuRecipes
* static page of links to recipes provided off http://www.edubuntu.org
* the handbook skims information from this doc set
* Handbook and html version of wiki recipes are packaged and shipped in edubuntu-docs

=== Option 2 ===
* recipes are captured on the wiki: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdubuntuRecipes
* static page of links to recipes provided off http://www.edubuntu.org
* recipes are incorporated into the TBH system for yelp
* the handbook skims information from this doc set
* TBH and Handbook are packaged and shipped in edubuntu-docs

=== Option 3 ===
* recipes are captured on the wiki: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdubuntuRecipes
* static page of links to recipes provided off http://www.edubuntu.org
* Handbook becomes collection of TBH recipes for yelp

== LTSP Docs ==
LTSP is not Edubuntu specific, it pertains to Ubuntu as well.

An LTSP section should be made for TBH in Ubuntu. Edubuntu specific LTSP options can then either appear in the Handbook or in the Handbook and Edubuntu TBH sections (depending on recipe planning procedure)

== FAQ ==
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EdubuntuFAQ is for capturing common questions out of the mailing lists and IRC channels. It is mainly a reference for short answers to common questions but can be used for skimming information into other formal documents.
