{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
Membership in the Edubuntu community means recognition of a significant and sustained contribution to Edubuntu and the Linux Education community. Contributions in all areas are welcome, from support to advocacy, from programming to artwork and documentation, from LoCoTeams activities to core packaging. If your contributions have been oriented more towards Ubuntu, then you may want to review the <nowiki>[[Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki> page for further information.

=== Entitlements ===
Becoming an official Edubuntu member entitles you to:
* An @edubuntu.org e-mail alias that forwards to your real e-mail - the e-mail address will be setup automatically and will be based on your main Launchpad ID: . All e-mail arriving at said address will be forwarded to the primary email address listed for your profile in Launchpad. You can test if it is active by sending yourself some mail, from time to time.
* An <code>ubuntu/members/your_nick</code> hostname <nowiki>[[IrcTeam-Cloaks|IRC cloak]]</nowiki> on the <nowiki>[[http://www.freenode.net|Freenode]]</nowiki> IRC network.
* The right to print business cards with the Ubuntu/Edubuntu logo - The business cards can be found at the BusinessCards page. You will need to take care of the printing yourself.
* Syndication on <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com|Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki> of your Ubuntu/Edubuntu blog, or the Ubuntu/Edubuntu category posts in your blog, if you have one. Follow the registration instructions on PlanetUbuntu to add your blog!

=== Requirements ===
If you think your contributions have been significant and sustained, you can try to become a member. Generally, a minimum of two months of visible, significant activity will be required.

The regular way to apply for membership is to provide your information on the <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Meetings|Edubuntu Meetings]]</nowiki> page.

In each case, you need to add your name to the agenda for the next meeting and prepare carefully according to the instructions below.

The Edubuntu team holds meetings on a regular basis, varying the times in order to make it as convenient as possible.

=== Preparation ===
It is vital to be well prepared for the meeting. You need to convince the council that you have contributed to Edubuntu.

'''Personal wiki page'''
# A summary of your contributions to Edubuntu
# A link to your Launchpad profile
# A complete description of your contributions to Edubuntu
# Your plans and ideas for Edubuntu in the near and far future

'''Code of Conduct'''<<BR>><<BR>>
You must have signed the Code of Conduct (see the GnuPrivacyGuardHowto for more information on this), prior to applying for membership.

'''Testimonials'''<<BR>><<BR>>
If there are recognized members of the Edubuntu or Ubuntu community supporting you at the meeting, this will definitely speed up the process of approving you. If your "''sponsors''" can't attend the relevant meeting, ask them to leave a testimonial on your wiki page about your contributions.

'''Current Members'''
https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-members
----
CategoryEdubuntu
