{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xdeltas
* '''Created''':  by StephenReiach
* '''Contributors''': StephenReiach
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
A Spec defineing the procedure for imaging (cloneing) workstations in an Edubuntu environment.

=== Rationale ===
A procedure is needed to have clear means of imaging a complete workstation and being able to distribute that image to other computers in a lab.   A clear Edubuntu method of imaging will produce effective support from the Edubuntu community for those installing and maintaining Edubuntu lab environments.
=== Use cases ===
# A quick and straight forward way for a tech to setup and clone a whole lab of computers with the same image.
# Easily reimage a workstation who's installation have become corrupted or unusable.
# Image a new machine or a workstation that has a new harddrive.

=== Scope ===
The GRUB configuration would have to be amended to include a block for booting with Etherboot-PXE.

The <nowiki>[[http://http://clonezilla.sourceforge.net/|Clonezilla]]</nowiki> package (a combination of <nowiki>[[http://www.partimage.org/Main_Page|partimage]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://udpcast.linux.lu/|udpcast]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://drbl.sourceforge.net/|DRBL]]</nowiki>) should be installed, as part of an Imaging Package, during a server installation.

=== Design ===
Each workstation would have an extra boot option in their grub menu which PXE boots the machine.  The workstation would then receive a new image from a preconfigured server.

This design provides and advantage over the old <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.com/howtos/Clone-HOWTO/index.shtml|Linux Cloning Howto]]</nowiki> because it provides Multicasting, control from the server, can be reconfigured without visiting every workstation.

=== Implementation ===
Once the <nowiki>[[http://http://clonezilla.sourceforge.net/|Clonezilla]]</nowiki> package is installed the administrator will have the option of creating and image from a workstation, imaging a single computer, imaging a whole lab using multicast.  It provies a complete imaging solution with a simple user interface.

==== Code ====
See <nowiki>[[http://drbl.sourceforge.net/|DRBL Documentation]]</nowiki>.

# Copy the file "/tftpboot/etherboot-5.4.2/etherboot-net.zlilo" to client's directory "/boot/" in its harddisk.
# Append one block in the client's /boot/grub/menu.lst or /boot/grub/grub.conf (depends on your distribution) like this:
       title Etherboot-PXE
        kernel /boot/etherboot-net.zlilo
 

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
