{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting June 27, 2007 ==
<pre>
02:05	ogra	please este tribe2 images !
02:05	ogra	http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/daily/20070626.2/
02:05	ogra	and http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/daily-live/20070627/
02:06	ogra	please test these
02:06	ogra	the server CD will suffer from bug #121547 atm
02:06	ubotu	Launchpad bug 121547 in ltsp "[Gutsy]  LTSP chroot building process hangs at 50% on Tribe1 CD" [Undecided,Confirmed]  https://launchpad.net/bugs/121547
02:07	ogra	beyond that i heard that sbalneav got the new ldm working with feedback messages to the user yesterday ...
02:07	ogra	i havent merged that code yet
02:07	ogra	i started the work on ltspfs hal integration on the weeken
02:07	ogra	http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogra/ltspfs-hal-root.png
02:07	ogra	thats my first result, we have an ltspfs rootdevice now where all volumes that get mounted will register under
02:08	ogra	well, thats been my week, mainly ltsp and CD building releated
02:08	ogra	any questions abotu tech ?
02:08	ogra	*about
02:10	ogra	hmm, doesnt seem like
02:11	RichEd	LaserJock asked me to raise the following queries:
02:11	RichEd	"How do I install language support from the add-on CD"
02:11	RichEd	he saw that in the forum ... is is a simple process ?
02:11	ogra	synaptic atm
02:12	RichEd	ogra: ^^ query ?
02:12	RichEd	and also: <LaserJock> another was how to get all the gcompris languages installed
02:12	ogra	the language selector should work as well if the CD is mounted, but dont quote me on it, i havent tested that
02:12	ogra	the gcompris language stuff is a bit complicated
02:13	ogra	we dont have enough langs to just add them to the langpack selection in the seeds
02:13	ogra	so they need to be special cased either or i need to build funny scriptbased metapackage sor other weird stuff
02:14	ogra	in former releases we just installed all the gcompris sound packages
02:14	ogra	now that its on the addon CD we would need some new way to handle them
02:14	RichEd	so how do we move forward on this ... log a request / bug in lp
02:14	ogra	i'll talk to LaserJock about that
02:14	RichEd	okie
02:15	ogra	well, thats all from my side about tech, dunno if you want to add something RichEd
02:16	ogra	RichEd was busy with tech stuff as well this week :)
02:16	RichEd	just the comments from LaserJock ...
02:17	RichEd	and some spec work for the Edulinux Moodle project
02:17	ogra	yeah
02:17	RichEd	I was just chatting to pips1 about that ... we will let you know when the project server is up ... if people want to read or comment
02:18	RichEd	just to fill you in: we are building an single CD bundle: edubuntu / moodle / database ... simple install
02:18	RichEd	this is part of an EU project ... with schools / universities as partners ...
02:19	RichEd	they request various features, and we are evaluating which moodle add-ons to bundle
02:19	RichEd	the results will be public
02:19	RichEd	and prepared as an .iso for all to download.
02:19	RichEd	--- that's all from me
02:20	RichEd	anyone else with technical ?
02:20	ogra	doesnt look like
02:20	RichEd	moving on to artwork then ...
02:20	RichEd	still no sign of cbx33 lately ... anyone seen him in #edubuntu in the past month ?
02:21	ogra	as i said, he told me he wanted to draw back a bit from all the duties he took himself
02:21	ogra	he felt it was to much
02:21	RichEd	i'll need to check his level of commitment ... as we may need a replacement if he is too busy with other work
02:21	ogra	but he didnt want to drp all
02:22	RichEd	do we have anyone else who is keen to help with artwork ... not necessarily as creator, but also as organisational ?
02:22	ogra	yeah, i need to check what up with TCM as well if he doenst want to maintain it anymore
02:22	ogra	*what's
02:23	RichEd	... okay let me check with pete re his availability ...
02:24	RichEd	and also see if he can put together a short list of responsibilities / items he used to care for
02:25	ogra	well for edubuntu tech thats specifically only TCM
02:25	ogra	and artwork indeed, but i count more on kwwii with that to be honest
02:25	ogra	i think doc was before art :)
02:26	RichEd	ogra: kwii helps out with production but will not lead ... we need to give him requests / guidelines etc.
02:27	ogra	RichEd, we can care ourself about coloring as long as his pics are easily chngeable
02:27	ogra	*he* shall give *us* the specs for his pics ... i'm fine with changing colors or logos then
02:28	RichEd	okay ... I will review the artwork process that willvdl has put together and see where we have gaps ... and chat to you and/or kwii
02:28	ogra	(i can even script that if we make up a proper palette from the colors we have atm)
02:28	RichEd	(just saying we need someone to keep an eye on the overall process / deadlines ... to free ogra up for tech focus)
02:29	ogra	but i have no idea where we stand atm
02:30	RichEd	highvoltage: ogra and I saw you chatting to willvdl re the website ubuntu uprade from dapper
02:30	RichEd	any news ? status ?
02:30	highvoltage	RichEd: yes
02:30	highvoltage	RichEd: server was upgraded to dapper last week
02:31	highvoltage	RichEd: edubuntu.org was upgraded to drupal 5.1 friday evening
02:31	RichEd	upgraded to dapper ?
02:31	highvoltage	RichEd: most of the canical2007 theme is ported to edubuntu
02:31	highvoltage	RichEd: yes, it was still running breezy
02:31	RichEd	oh ... any reason why it did not go to feisty ?
02:31	highvoltage	RichEd: I didn't mention it before publicly, since there might have been security risks attached to it
02:31	RichEd	okay ...
02:32	highvoltage	RichEd: well, dapper is the LTS release
02:32	highvoltage	RichEd: matthew is doing some colour work on the theme
02:32	highvoltage	matthew uses photoshop, he says he can do it quicker than me
02:33	highvoltage	I'm just going to put it up as I get it, faster incremental changes work better than the big bang stuff
02:33	highvoltage	we can even have it up today or tomorrow, if you'd be happy with a brown backround gradient
02:33	highvoltage	pips1: yes, even SSL is working ;)
02:34	highvoltage	pips1: it was also relient on the server upgrade
02:34	pips1	what about the content?
02:34	pips1	ic
02:36	highvoltage	pips1: depends what kind of content you mean. we can have forums now. now that ssl works, we can have users register themselves, so that will work.
02:36	highvoltage	pips1: in terms of updating existing content, I suppose that's willvdl's baby
02:36	pips1	We had a meeting at UDS Sevilla about the websites of Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu... an idea that was discussed was that it would help the new site visitors if there was some kind of consistency across all sites... not so much in terms of "look", but more in terms of navigation
02:37	RichEd	pips1: that is part of the move to the canonical theme ...
02:37	highvoltage	we can be consistent with canonical and ubuntu
02:37	highvoltage	Kubuntu's look is a whole other discussion
02:38	RichEd	the idea is to keep the horizontal toobars at the top, so that, for example, if you are on edubuntu.org but click on support / marketplace, then you go straight to the area on ubuntu.com
=== RichEd goes to get an example quickly ...
02:38	highvoltage	the canonical theme is way superior to the ubuntu theme. I think metthew will eventually re-do ubuntu's theme
02:38	highvoltage	it lacks some features, which the canonical one has
02:38	pips1	Yes. RichEd, I remember your idea in particular, that even the page hiearchy could be the same, e.g. /getubuntu/download should be the same for Ubuntu.com, Kubuntu and Edubuntu.org...
02:38	highvoltage	(such as support for a right sidebar)
02:39	RichEd	pips1: the download will need some work ... there will need to be some decisions taken on the naming ...
02:39	pips1	right.
02:40	RichEd	they have embedded ubuntu in the name in some locations, and do we swop out ubuntu for edubuntu or make edubuntu a subset of ubuntu ...
02:40	RichEd	small matters just to clear up.
02:40	RichEd	here is the example I mentioned:
02:40	RichEd	http://chi.ubuntu-us.org/
02:41	pips1	Let me just throw in this idea again: why don't we copy the entire ubuntu.com content (i.e. the whole database) and use that as a "base" for the edubuntu relaunch... we can delete pages that aren't relevant to edubuntu, modify pages to make them specifically relevant to edubuntu, and add a few pages that we need in addtion. What does everybody think about this approach?
02:41	RichEd	if you load it, you will see that there are a small set of chicago specific pages, but the main links back to ubuntu are direct and consistent
02:41	RichEd	pips1: that is almost exactly what the example does
02:42	RichEd	oops ... let me clarify ...
02:42	highvoltage	pips1: I don't think we're going to do the big-bang-relaunch thing
02:42	RichEd	i don't think we want to have duplicate pages on our site ... if the info is accurate on ubuntu.com
02:42	RichEd	we should only host major deviations ...
02:43	RichEd	minor deviations are best covered on the ubuntu site as a flavour change I think ?
02:43	pips1	highvoltage: it doesn't have to be a "big bang" type of thing, I am just suggesting that we could re-use the content from ubuntu.com...
02:43	pips1	RichEd: hmm.
02:44	pips1	Well, the big question is really: how to we insure best maintenance with the least effort?
02:44	pips1	*do
02:44	highvoltage	pips1: yep, absolutely
02:44	pips1	so we don't want *double* content
02:44	highvoltage	pips1: you have editing right, don't you? If you want to re-create a page, feel free to do so
02:46	pips1	nah, I'm just trying to figure out a way to align edubuntu and ubuntu.com sites (both in terms of look/template, but also in terms of navigation structure/content) with as little unnessasary work as possible
02:46	pips1	*unnecessary
02:48	RichEd	pips1: i think you and I should have a meeting with will and highvoltage to get a plan together ... before will leaves next week
02:49	pips1	so my idea was to copy the whole ubuntu.com site's database and simply tweak the content here and there... hmm. I realise this not ideal. We really want most content on the ubuntu site, and only some additional content that is relevant to edubuntu, i.e. mostly content about the educational applications and about our specific community (communication channels such as irc channel etc)
02:49	sbalneav	Will going on holidays?
02:49	highvoltage	pips1: I tend to think it's more efficient to link to certain pages than to copy the entire site over. we have help.ubuntu.com for documentation
02:50	RichEd	pips1: there are a lot more resources working on the ubuntu.com site, like the marketing people, so their content will change more quickly .. and we may struggle to keep up with the mods
02:50	pips1	sure, linking is preferable
02:50	highvoltage	so I think it will get messy copying over the entire ubuntu site
02:50	RichEd	sbalneav: will only had a short contract specifically around a project (NEPAD) and that expires end June
02:50	highvoltage	pips1: what's the state of the community site? did I miss the update on that?
02:50	pips1	in addition we should have some redirection happening also... for some crucial / very popular url paths that exist on the ubuntu.com site...
02:51	pips1	highvoltage: nope you didn't miss anything
02:51	pips1	the beta site is still unchanged ever since UES :-((
02:51	pips1	i've been too busy :-((
02:52	highvoltage	there's an edubuntu-website team in launchpad. perhaps you should ping the group and ask if anyone wants to help out with the areas you're too busy with
02:52	pips1	hmm.
02:53	pips1	I don't know if that will help
02:53	RichEd	well now is a good time to bring up LP and community applications ...
02:53	RichEd	we are getting more requests by people asking to become edubuntu members
02:53	RichEd	some spam, but quite a few are real ...
02:54	RichEd	so: 1. how do we streamline the approval process (I get too busy to attend to all)
02:54	pips1	I think it's too difficult to communicate the overall idea/vision... I think the most effective will be if I set aside a block of time and then just get it done.
02:54	RichEd	and 2. perhaps we should have a wiki page outlining how the people could get involved, with the subgroups, and a short intro on what they do ?
02:55	RichEd	(like the edubuntu website example)
02:55	RichEd	ogra: any suggestions on how or who can do the approvals ?
=== pips1 looks for the "teams" in launchpad
02:56	pips1	arg, where the **** do I find the team search on LP?
02:57	ogra	RichEd, EC approvals ?
02:57	RichEd	people requesting to become an edubuntu member
02:57	ogra	we should have anoother EC meeting for that and announce it loudly
02:57	jsgotangco	yep
02:57	RichEd	I do not get around to them all :( ... they can get lost in my inbox at times
02:58	RichEd	pips1: my point exactly ... ^^ ... if you can't find all the edubuntu teams / education teams ... we should perhaps have a guide page ?
02:58	highvoltage	pips1: I understand what you'd like to achive, but we also have to be realistic and get done what we can as soon as possible
02:58	highvoltage	some ideas are a bit big for right now.
02:59	RichEd	pips [Home]  [[People] ]  drop down
02:59	RichEd	pips1: ^
02:59	ogra	i dont really care about all the other teams atm, but we should urgenty go over membership stuff and have the EC meeting for that
03:00	ogra	its just a lot of paperwork (mailing all applicants etc)(
03:00	pips1	finally found it: https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu
03:01	pips1	There are five applicants listed
03:01	pips1	Has anyone ever heard of anyone on that list?
03:01	RichEd	pips1: there are also some education teams
03:02	ogra	pips1, no, but we need to tell them about the process and mail them a date for an EC meeting
03:02	jsgotangco	hi
03:02	pips1	ogra: ic, right
03:02	RichEd	pips1: Halmeren (jonasgauguin) ... new user in #edubuntu ... spoken to him ... enthusiastic
03:02	pips1	ah, this is the full team listing: https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu/+members
03:04	ogra	there are a *lot* of pending members
03:04	ogra	*sigh*
03:04	pips1	oh, there are 31 (!) applicants waiting
03:04	RichEd	shall we table a slot for the next meeting ... and give 30 mins to work through all the issues ?
03:04	RichEd	it will also be the 1st meeting for July which is a potential EC meeting no ?
03:05	ogra	yep
03:05	jsgotangco	just my thought: its perfectly fine to delegate approval of membership to specific teams if there is a reason to do so (language for instance)
03:05	RichEd	so 1: manage the approvals ...
03:05	ogra	jsgotangco, well, thats why we have the edubuntu team :)
03:05	jsgotangco	yep
03:05	RichEd	but 2: shall we also draft a welcome email with some ideas on how the new members could gt involved
03:05	RichEd	like artwork / web site etc. with the names of people to chat to ?
03:05	ogra	yeah
03:06	ogra	and outlining the membership rpocess
03:06	highvoltage	sounds good
03:06	pips1	oh, and then there is edubuntu-members too : https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-members/+members
03:06	RichEd	would a wiki page be a good idea ... make an agenda for the meeting ... and also some guidelines
03:06	RichEd	pips1: mail me the names of any edubuntu / education groups you find ...
03:07	pips1	which lists another 23 applicants waiting
03:07	RichEd	i'll create a wiki page, with descriptions,and we can see if there is any duplication / overlap
03:07	RichEd	and get a tidy up going
03:08	RichEd	any suggestions for a sensible wiki page name: EdubuntuCommunity ?
03:08	pips1	++
03:09	RichEd	ahh ... that page exists, created by Willvdl
03:09	pips1	sorry, folks, I got to get back to work. :-/
03:10	RichEd	it is a good start, so I will expand on it ... and we can use it as the base for the discussion next week
03:10	RichEd	Any other pressing matters for today ?
03:10	ogra	nope
03:11	RichEd	Okay spread the news about an EC meeting next week when you see people in the channel ...
</pre>
