{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float: right; font-size: 0.90em; width: 40%; background: #dbdbdb; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Information ==

* Launchpad Team: https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-dev
* Ubuntu Developers Delegate: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation

== Edubuntu Developers ==

* are members of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-dev|edubuntu-dev]]</nowiki> team in Launchpad
* are collectively responsible for the maintenance of packages in the Edubuntu package set
* have a strong working knowledge of packaging concepts and techniques, refined through experience
* have a strong working knowledge of Ubuntu and Edubuntu project procedures, especially those related to the release process and support commitments, and an understanding of the reasons why they exist
* are able to apply this knowledge to the variety of packages and subsystems contained in the Edubuntu package set
* have a history of substantial direct contributions to the distribution
* take a leading role in new development projects to improve Edubuntu
* specify, develop and deploy new features for the default installation of Edubuntu
* exercise great care in their work, with the understanding that their efforts have a direct impact on others, including:
** every Edubuntu user
** the Ubuntu release team
** corporate partners who provide support for Edubuntu
* feel a sense of personal responsibility for the quality of Edubuntu releases and for the satisfaction of Edubuntu users
* understand how Edubuntu integrates into the greater Ubuntu system and respects and concerns themselves with impacts of Edubuntu changes on the rest of the system

== Applying for edubuntu-dev membership ==

To join the `edubuntu-dev` team, the <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Council|Edubuntu Council]]</nowiki> needs to review your application first. 

* You MUST be a Edubuntu Member member first.
* Set up a personal wiki page for your application. Please make use of <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-DeveloperApplicationTemplate]]</nowiki>.
* Talk to your <nowiki>[[SponsorshipProcess|sponsors]]</nowiki> beforehand and ask them to add some information to the wiki page. In a regular application, you will have 3-5 sponsors.
* Once your application is ready, send an email indicating your readiness to apply and linking your wiki page to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|edubuntu-devel list]]</nowiki>.  A member of Edubuntu Council will contact you and pick a meeting time you'll be able to attend (`edubuntu-council` does not generally hold meetings, except to approve new members so they are not routinely scheduled).  Applications may be processed via email if necessary to get sufficient review.
* Attend the meeting.

All members of the development community are welcome to attend and ask questions, add your feedback (even if unsolicited) to the wiki page in question or ask questions on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/edubuntu-devel|edubuntu-devel list]]</nowiki>.

The <nowiki>[[Edubuntu-Council|Edubuntu Council]]</nowiki> will have prepared for the meeting (reviewed the application details, checked a few examples of your work, talked to sponsors, etc.) and ask questions to make sure the applicant qualifies for the team. During the meeting the Edubuntu Developers will cast their votes and if quorum is reached (majority of those present and at least 3), will add the applicant to the team or ask to re-apply in due time.

== Benefits of membership ==

* Able to upload Edubuntu packages to the Ubuntu archive
* Lots of hard work
* A key voice in defining the technical direction of Edubuntu
