{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting July 17, 2009 ==
Minutes of Edubuntu Meeting at 19:00 UTC, 16 July 2009 on #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Present ===

* LaserJock (Jordan Mantha)
* Lns (Jordan Ericksson)
* alkisg (Alkis Georgopoulos)
* ball (Andy Ball)
* sbalneav (Scott Balneaves)
* dgroos (David Groos)
* highvoltage (Jonathan Carter)
* mhall119|work (Michael Hall)
* Michelle_Qimo (Michelle Hall)

=== Agenda ===

1. Edubuntu Website
2. Monthly Team Reports
3. Weekly Updates
4. General Discussion
5. Next Meeting Time
6. Post-meeting Discussion on #edubuntu

=== 1. Edubuntu Website ===

* Phillip Schroder has indicated that he won't have any more time to work on website
* Content needs to be divided in archive and current, for example, there should be a /ReleaseNotes and /8.04/ReleaseNotes, /8.10/ReleaseNotes, etc. Archived documentation that are release-specific can live inside that distribution's namespace
* Archive content should have a subtle warning banner indicating that the page relates to an older version of Edubuntu
* Contact members of the edubuntu-website team and get them involved.

=== 2. Monthly Team Reports ===

* As an Ubuntu team, we must start submitting monthly reports based on our activities
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TeamReports has more information on team reports
* Monthly reports will be built from reports at weekly meetings and mailing list reports

=== 3. Weekly Updates ===

sbalneav:

* Scott has received feedback from 5 users on Sabyon, it works for 3 users and not for the other 2, big improvement from getting feedback from 0 users
* LTSP upstream handbook now up to 84 pages, Edubuntu handbook will be updated from there
* LTSP doc is in need of internationalisation, contact Scott if you're interested in helping out, especially if you have some Yelp experience
 
=== 4. General Discussion ===

* Michael and Michelle Hall from Qimo joined the meeting and we had a brief discussion on getting Qimo packages into Ubuntu
* Jonathan will work with Michael to get the Qimo desktop setup from a skeleton home directory to Xfce XDG settings.
* If possible, we'll try to ship Qimo packages on the Edubuntu disc as well.

=== 5. Next Meeting Time ===

Next Scheduled Meeting:

* Wednesday, 22 July 2009
* 13:00 UTC (If you live in a country with DST, remember to double-check your local time)
* #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net

=== 6. Post-meeting discussion ===

We moved to #edubuntu after the meeting was adjourned for general technical discussion. Jonathan will contact Colin Watson to arrange the seeds for generating DVD install Edubuntu media.
