{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Edubuntu & Launchpad ==

 "<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad]]</nowiki> is a collection of services for products in the open source universe. You can register your product, then collaborate with the open source community on translations, bug tracking and code."

 /!\ This page, and the sub-pages linked from it, assumes the reader is familiar with the Launchpad concepts of teams, projects, products, distributions, translations, bugs, blueprints and support tickets.

 {i} The help pages for Launchpad are hosted on https://help.launchpad.net with the FAQ at https://launchpad.net/faq. We urge you to be familiar with the Launchpad documentation.
----
Edubuntu is built on Ubuntu which is registered within Launchpad. Launchpad offers a wide range of services to maintaining the distribution and its related projects and products. These include working in <nowiki>[[/Teams|teams]]</nowiki> and contributing to <nowiki>[[/ProjectsAndProducts|projects and products]]</nowiki>.

The following pages will try to give an overview of how Edubuntu fits into Launchpad:
* The Edubuntu <nowiki>[[/Teams|Team]]</nowiki> structure
* The <nowiki>[[/ProjectsAndProducts|Projects and Products]]</nowiki> associated with Edubuntu
* How to <nowiki>[[/Usage|Use]]</nowiki> Launchpad effectively for Edubuntu development

=== Sub-Linked Pages ===
