{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Not strictly a specification, but a dump of the discussion at UDS Maverick.

== UDS Session - 12 May 2010 ==

Spec page: https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-maverick-edubuntu-packages

Related spec (schooltool): https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-maverick-schooltool

Purpose of meeting: create plan for education packages that need attention in Maverick.
Packages to discuss:
* Moodle
* Schooltool (needs a bunch of Zope dependencies, didn't make it in time for Lucid, a session on maverick-zope-packages running right now, not sure if it's directly related)
* Sugar (currently in Ubuntu, some packages are 0.88 and some are 0.86 and may need to be updated, if someone could provide some clarity on that it would be great)

If there's time, we could perhaps discuss the possibility of an edubuntu-server task.

=== Schooltool ===

* Administration & gradebook tool
* Magnus will maintain all zope3 packages in Ubuntu, so zope shouldn't be a
   problem from here on
* In the next 6 months, hopefully 25 schools in Cambodia, perhaps nationwide by
   2011
* Also working with schools in Zambia, El Salvador

=== Edubuntu Server Task ===

* Could include packages like schooltool
* Not necessarily on Ubuntu Server disc (depending on space)
* Perhaps on text installer on Edubuntu DVD?(sorry can't hear so nice with skype)
* Task in net installer can be done first

=== Moodle ===

* Debian has orphaned the project:  https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/edubuntu-devel/2010-May/003456.html
* Debian had a redesign of Moodle packaging in git but basically task was too 
 large to be finished
* Simplify scope, depend on postgres
* If someone really wants separate db server or using mysql or something else, they
   need to wait until we get the workable package first
* Will upstream be willing to provide security updates for 4-5 years in Debian?
* Pick version for Lucid & Squeeze that can be maintained for that time
* Having moodle-scripts could possibly be more work than packaging it properly
   and generally a bad idea (think flash plugin)
* What version is Canonical using?
* jbicha will contact Tomek to see about packaging progress

=== Sugar ===

* Contact Ubuntu Sugar team, get update on current Sugar status

=== Other Packages ===

Touch-screen / smarboard tools: (I didn't quite get the names please populate)
* journal
* xournal

Future perhaps (radar):

School Interoperability Framework (SIF) (openzis.org)

=== QIMO ===

* mhall119 will create a gnome-based session that we could ship on the DVD
