{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Education Programme : Actions ==

=== Context ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Education/Goals
** ''A '''Goal''' is a statement of what the '''Ubuntu Education Programme''' wants to become or achieve.''

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Education/Objectives
** ''An '''Objective''' is a more specific statement of a portion of an '''Ubuntu Education Programme Goal'''.''

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Education/Actions
** ''An '''Action''' is one of the major steps needed to achieve an '''Ubuntu Education Programme Objective'''.''
 
=== Current Actions : 2007 ===

* ''each '''action''' should link directly back to the '''objective''' it supports'' 
* ''this section is the finalised list of '''actions''' to concentrate on for the current period.'''
* ''this finalised list is being prepared from a filtering of the '''input actions''' below, which will be assessed in terms of how they support the '''objectives'''.''

=== Input Actions : 2007 ===

* '''Planning in Progress'''
** ''To be populated''

* SPEC LIST
** see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Edubuntu/Devel/RoadMap
** HIGH-PRIORITY:
** ltsp-boot-performance
** ldm-improvements
** edubuntu-application-review
** edubuntu-artwork-procedures
** edubuntu-documentation-procedures
** MEDIUM
** ltsp-update-manager-integration
** ltspfs-virtual-hal-devices
** edubuntu-addon-enhancements
** edubuntu-menus-completion
** OTHERS
** extract off wiki page list

** OLD
** go through LP

* #ubuntu-education
** allocate title
** allocate a 2nd line person

* mailing lists
** tidy moderator
** SPAM ?

* tidy out LP specs
** now, once off
** add to documentation cycle

* consolidate LTSP documentation
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/QuickInstall

** create category for LTSP / thin client
** ensure that people searching for either get to their destination
** run past Chris Kenyon
** run past Steve George

=== Academy ===

* Universities to approach for the whole academy programme
** Universities allocated to Richard
** Brazil
** Wits
*** Meraka
** US
*** via Moquist

=== Partnerships ===

* FLOSSCom
* Guadelinex
** School
** Programme
** Infrastructure Supplier
* mEDUXa
* Georgia

=== People offering to Help ===

* Make a list:
** ace
** jim
** cliebow
** david trask

=== Good community people to look after ===

* Jonathan
* Jordan
* David Trask
* bimberi
* Gavin
 

=== Initiatives to Follow Up ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EducationCountryProfile
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCo/Education

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Education

* https://wiki.edubuntu.org/Lessons
* http://www.tikilabs.com/
** 71231_Tikilabs_Teaser.pdf

=== Spec ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuAddonEnhancements

=== Resources ===

* http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Edgy
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edubuntu

=== Tidy the following ===

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/education
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/education/
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/education/planning
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/education/resources

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Education
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AndrewSwinn/UbuntuInEducation
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UdsMtvUbuntuEducation
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverEducation
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Toronto/Website/Free_Learning_%26_Education
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DraftWwwUbuntuCom/Applications/Education
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamEducation
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecPasswordNoEchoEducation
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Education
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UdsMtvUbuntuEducation

* Will's education pages on wiki.canonical
* Richard's education pages on wiki.canonical

* '''Create and tidy an education category'''
** wiki.ubuntu.com
** wiki.canonical.com

* Search for all pages containing:
** Title: Education
** Text: Education
** wiki.ubuntu.com
** wiki.canonical.com

* https://wiki.canonical.com/Education
* https://wiki.canonical.com/CategoryEducation
* https://wiki.canonical.com/StrategicPlan/2006/Education

* Manage old Spec pages on:
** wiki.ubuntu.com
** lp.com

=== Applications to Look at ===

* Moodle
* Drupal
* LAMs
* Super Tux Kart

* http://www.osv.org.au/index.cgi?tid=155
** Catalog of Free and Open Source Software for Education
** OSV has prepared the following report for the primary and secondary education sector. Within it, we have researched and provided a synopsis on a range of software which we believe will be beneficial to educators and students. We have also included a large list of other open source applications.

* http://www.osv.org.au/index.cgi?tid=161
** Catalog of Free and Open Source Software for Small-Medium Enterprises
** Open Source Victoria has prepared this catalog of open source software for small-medium enterprises. Within it, we have researched and provided a synopsis on a range of software which we believe will be beneficial to many businesses and small public-sector organisations.

=== Past Actions : History ===

* Historical versions of this document will be listed here.

=== [ document details ] ===

==== [ document purpose ] ====

Outline the '''current actions''' for the Ubuntu Education Programme.

This page is a planning and discussion document for open discussion.

==== [ document author ] ====

* Richard Weideman
** Education Programme Manager
** IRC
*** nick RichEd
*** channels #edubuntu, #ubuntu-education
** richard@ubuntu.com

==== [ document editing ] ====

* Please sugest changes to the author via email rather than modifying directly
