{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Education Programme : Planning ==

==== [ purpose of this page ] ====

This is a planning page to share thoughts and ideas with the current Ubuntu and Edubuntu community on how we approach Ubuntu and Education.

It provides an overview of discussion topics, and initiatives.

=== Introduction ===

Ubuntu has a dedicated head focusing on the Education Sector, who is guiding the development of a cohesive and comprehensive approach for this niche sector.

As 1st line Education contact, there is first hand exposure to wide range of enquiries and interactions between many diverse groups of people who interact with Canonical, Ubuntu and Edubuntu.

It is becoming clear that:
* Education usage of Ubuntu software is broader than the product '''Edubuntu'''
* Current users of '''Edubuntu''' are applying the software in scenarios which are broader than Education

It is vital that we find ways to engage the various users and stakeholders in a way which brings them into our community according to their needs; assists them to find guidance and solutions for their specific requirements; allows them to share their learnings; and helps to contribute towards an integrated and comprehensive end-to-end Open Source Education solution which widely adopted and well supported.

=== Objectives ===

*** Position Ubuntu and its variants as the Linux distribution of choice in the Education Sector
*** Stimulate the growth of open source solutions, communities and skills around Ubuntu products in the Education Sector

=== Focus Points ===

In order to approach the ojectives above in a structured manner, we have identified a few focus points, and are creating practical initiatives around these.

* #1 : Understand our Users and Stakeholders

* #2 : Make contact with our Users and Stakeholders

* #3 : Provide an appropriate entry point into our Ubuntu online resources and facilities

* #4 : Introduce news users into our community and grow the community for the benefit of all

=== Focus Point #1 ===

* '''Understand our Users and Stakeholders'''

** Initiative #1 :  Profile User and Stakeholders
** <nowiki>[[./education/planning/profiling|Education Planning Overview]]</nowiki>
*** List all of the types of people who have an interest or interaction with:
**** the Edubuntu product for any use
**** any Ubuntu product for Education use
*** Identify Categories of Users 

=== Focus Point #2 ===

* '''Make contact with our Users and Stakeholders'''

** Initiative #1 : Review Channels of Communication
** List current channels of communication we use to reach our target audience
** Review list of current channels of communication which we use to reach our target audience
** Review current channels to assess effectiveness and determine whether they could be impoved
** Identify new channels of communication which we should create and use to reach our target audience
** Revise list of current channels of communication which we use to reach our target audience

** Initiative #2 : Revise our existing Education Documentation to address the requirements of the target audience
** Exercise 1 : Education Advocacy

==== [ document details ] ====

This page is a planning and discussion document for open discussion.

* '''See also:'''
** <nowiki>[[./education/planning/overview|Education Planning Overview]]</nowiki>

* Author
** Richard Weideman
** Education Programme Manager
** IRC #edubuntu <RichEd>
** richard@ubuntu.com

* Editing
** Please sugest changes to the author via email rather than modifying directly
