{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:classmatepc-teacher-control
* '''Packages affected''': Edubuntu for the Intel ClassmatePC

=== Summary ===

There is a requirement for a teacher to be able to manage and control the learner devices to allow them to:
* suspend use of the devices while attention is required
* share a demonstration screen with some or all users
* take over a user device
* and other similar tasks ...
* see UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

This has been requested for Edubuntu standard version.
This has been requested for Edubuntu standard version.

* Dependent on UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

Requires:
* Improvements to italc interface
* Main Inclusion Process across italc to assess security and other quality controls
* Italc approval for main
* Italc inclusion in main

=== Release Note ===

* New requirement.
* No impact on existing users of any previous Ubuntu version.

=== Rationale ===

This functionality is "highly requested" by device target user set - i.e. teachers

=== Use Cases ===

* See UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

=== Assumptions ===

* See UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

=== Design ===

* See UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

=== Implementation ===

* See UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

* Will require testing on the Intel ClassmatePC hardware

* May require revision for the Intel ClassmatePC hardware

==== UI Changes ====

* May require revision for the Intel ClassmatePC screen size limitations

==== Code Changes ====

* To follow design review for the ClassmateP once italc spec is implemented

==== Migration ====

None.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

* Dependent on UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* See UbuntuSpec:edubuntu-and-italc

----
CategorySpec
CategoryEducation
