{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Education Programme : Planning : Profiling ==

==== [ purpose of this page ] ====

To manage the profiling activity and results.

=== Focus Point #1 ===

* '''Understand our Users and Stakeholders'''
* Initiative #1 :  Profile User and Stakeholders
** List all of the types of people who have an interest or interaction with:
*** the Edubuntu product for any use
*** any Ubuntu product for Education use
** Identify Categories of Users 

=== Order of Priority for this Exercise ===

# the Edubuntu product for any use in Education
# the Edubuntu product for any use outside of Education
# any Ubuntu product for Education use

=== Categories of Stakeholders ===

'''Convention for usage of format and terms'''
* category
** sub-category 1
** sub-category 2

'''Category List'''
* 1. '''School'''
** 1.1 '''Pre-School'''
** 1.2 '''Primary School'''
** 1.3 '''Secondary School'''

* 2. '''University'''
** 2.1 '''Physical University'''
** 2.2 '''Correspondence University'''

* 3. '''Education Department'''
** 3.1 '''School Education'''
** 3.2 '''Tertiary Education'''

* 4. '''Government Education Ministry'''
** 4.1 '''Legislative'''
** 4.2 '''Executive'''

* 5. '''Home'''
** 5.1 '''Primary'''
** 5.2 '''Supplemental'''

*** ~-'''to work in'''-~
*** ~-Scholar @ Home-~
*** ~-Student @ Home-~
*** ~-Parent of Scholar @ Home-~
*** ~-Parent of Student @ Home-~

* 6. '''Civic'''
** 6.1 '''Library'''

* 7. '''Commercial'''
** 7.1 '''iCafe'''

* 8. '''Services'''
** 8.1 '''Support'''
** 8.2 '''Training'''
*** 8.2.1 '''Support'''
*** 8.2.2 '''Consulting'''
*** 8.2.3 '''Services Administrator'''

* 9. Education Content Provider
** 9.1 '''Print'''
** 9.2 '''Electronic'''

* 10. '''Publishing'''
** 10.1 '''Print'''
** 10.2 '''Electronic'''

* 11. '''Media'''
** 11.1 '''Television'''
** 11.2 '''Radio'''
** 11.3 '''Print'''
** 11.3.1 '''Newspapers'''
** 11.3.2 '''Magazines'''

* 12. '''Hardware Manufacturer'''
** 12.1 '''Traditional Computer'''
** 12.1.1 '''PC'''
** 12.1.2 '''Mac'''
** 12.2 '''Low Cost Appliance'''
** 12.2.1 '''Thin Clients'''
** 12.2.2 '''OLPC'''
** 12.2.3 '''Other'''
** 12.3 '''Communication Devices'''
** 12.3.1 '''Mobile Phones'''
** 12.3.2 '''PDAs'''
** 12.4 '''Peripherals'''
** 12.4.1 '''Interactive Whiteboards'''
** 12.4.2 '''Other'''

*** ~-'''to work in'''-~
*** ~-OEM-~
*** ~-OEM Developer (employee)-~
*** ~-OEM Partner Manager-~
*** ~-OEM Organisation-~

* 13. '''Hardware Refurbisher'''

* 14. Developer
** 14.1 '''Linux – OS'''
** 14.2 '''Linux – Desktop – Gnome'''
** 14.3 '''Linux – Desktop – KDE'''
** 14.4 '''Linux – General Utilities'''
** 14.5 '''Linux – Education Applications'''

* 15. Development Programs
** 15.1 '''National Programs'''
** 15.2 '''NGO Programs'''

* 16. Regional Programs
** 16.1 '''Derivatives'''
** 16.2 '''Language'''

* 17. Ubuntu Organisations
** 17.1 '''Local Communities'''
** 17.2 '''Ubuntu Developers'''
** 17.3 '''Derivates'''
*** 17.3.1 '''Regional'''
*** 17.3.2 '''Niche'''
**** 17.3.2.1 '''Religion: Christian'''

* 18. Regional Programs
** 18.1 '''Online Organisations'''
** 18.2 '''Communities'''
** 18.3 '''Portals'''
** 18.4 '''Web Sites'''

* 19. Special Needs Programs
** 19.1 '''Blind'''
** 19.2 '''Disability'''

=== Consider how to handle these Categories ===

* '''Further Education / Adult Education'''
** adapt the roles listed under '''2. University''' ?
** adapt the roles listed under '''5. Home''' ?

* '''Educational Materials Providers'''
* '''Publishers of Educational Content'''
** adapt the roles listed under '''9. Education Content Provider''' ?

* '''Partner'''
** Contracted Business	
** Associate	
** Content
** Tools

* Media
** Reviewers etc.

* Games ?

* Internet Service Providers
** In the future, ISP might offer Hosted Edubuntu offerings

* Re-group Developers ?
** summarize:
** Developers into 'Partner Developers' (LTSP, Schooltool, ...)
** 'Upstream Developers' (Gnome, KDE, ...)
** Downstream Developers

** Changed from 'Developers' to *Related Communities*
** add categories like:
*** Partner Maintainers (MOTU),
*** Upstream Maintainers (Debian, Debian-Edu, ...)
*** Artists, Opinion Leaders, 
*** Interest Groups, etc

==== ~-Notes-~ ====

* ~-1.'''University'''-~
** ~-includes all tertiary education centres college, polytech, university-~
* ~-2. '''Education Department'''-~
** ~-includes all levels, local, regional, provincial, national-~
* ~-5.1 '''Primary'''-~
** ~-primary access access point for computer use-~
* ~-5.2 '''Supplemental'''-~
** ~-supplemental access access point for computer use-~

==== comments from Richard Weideman ====

==== comments from Philip Schroder ====

=== Potential Focus Areas ===

* 1. '''LTSP Environments'''
** 1.1 '''School'''
** 1.2 '''Library'''
** 1.3 '''iCafe'''

* 2. '''Regional Focus'''
** 2.1 '''Territory'''
** 2.2 '''Country'''
** 2.3 '''Region'''

=== Principles ===

 1. Default contact point is: Education Programme Manager
** All Areas.
** All Issues.
** Ony when there is a more specific contact, this changes.

=== Resources ===

 1. Existing
   1.1 Company
   1.2 Support
   1.3 Community
   1.4 News
** http://www.ubuntu.com
** http://www.edubuntu.org
** http://wiki.ubuntu.com
** http://wiki.edubuntu.org

 ''' *** NEXT TASK *** '''
** mail lists
** forums
** help site
** ubuntu newsletter

 2. Planned
** education speficic newsletter
** blogs

=== Community Recruitement ===

 1. Art Team
** to supplement:
*** AliasVegas
*** cbx33

=== Planned Ubuntu Education Space ===

'''Naming of the Ubuntu Education Space'''

With respect to:
* short name
* full name
* and potential web domain

* '''MUST'''
** must relate to Edubuntu product
** must relate to Ubuntu product in Education use
** must reinforce Ubuntu brand as the overall brand
** must reinforce Ubuntu community as the overall community
    (i.e. Ubuntu community is at the base of our community)
** must appeal to all broad Education Community Members
*** Users
*** Administrators
*** Stakeholders
*** Decision Makers
** must be easy to remember
** must be easy to explain
** must be available for domain name registration if needed
*** xxx.org
*** xxx.com
*** xxx.net

* '''MUST NOT'''
** must not be controversial to anyone anywhere
** must not be klever or insider Open Source / IT joke

* '''SHOULD'''
** should ideally be able to be generalised to other ubuntu niche solution areas e.g
** Ubuntu iCafe
** Ubuntu Medical
** Ubuntu Commercial
** Ubuntu Financial

* '''COULD'''
** could be official sub-domain of ubuntu.com
** but then needs "official approval at times"
** could be an unofficial domain name closely associated to ubuntu.com
** and then then does not need "official approval at any time"

==== [ document details ] ====

This page is a planning and discussion document for open discussion.

* '''See also:'''
** <nowiki>[[./education/planning/|Planning]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[./education/planning/overview|Education Planning Overview]]</nowiki>

* Author
** Richard Weideman
** Education Programme Manager
** IRC #edubuntu <RichEd>
** richard@ubuntu.com

* Editing
** Please sugest changes to the author via email rather than modifying directly
