{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Launchpad Spec ===

See here for the launchpad spec for this action plan:
* https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/education-launchpad-groups

=== Rationale ===

The education/edubuntu groups on launchpad urgently need attention.  There are groups registered and administered by a (often inactive) individual, and many groups are necessary and require attention, or are un-necessary and require deletion.

There are:
* groups with a duplicate purpose
* un-necessary groups
* necessary (but inactive) groups

The teams need to be:
* reviewed and seperated into groups:
** 1) Necessary team with no attention needed
** 2) Necessary team but attention needed
** 3) Un-necessary team needs deactivation

Once the teams have been organised the team members must be contacted to check if they still exist, and to check if they are still interested in contributing.

Suggestion:
* each group then should also have their own page on the ubuntu wiki page
* this page should reflect regular activities

Less groups, less members, more meaningful activities would be a good target.

=== Action ===

* De-activate group 3 teams emailing members explaining why.
* Make sure Edubuntu Council is at least a team admin (preferably a team owner) of all group 2 groups.
* Decline all new members to group 2 teams with an email explaining why and inviting them to re-join if interested.
* De-activate all members to group 2 teams that are no longer actively contributing with an email explaining why and inviting them to re-join if still interested.

Above are some steps that would be necessary in cleaning up the launchpad teams efficiently.  Please comment below/modify the above actions if you disagree or feel that the above action plan is incomplete.

==== Action Plan Comments ====

== Review the Education Related Launchpad Groups Below ==

=== Launchpad : Edubuntu ===

==== Edubuntu ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu
* The edubuntu members.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Edubuntu Members ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-members
* The Edubuntu Members are the group of Edubuntu contributors. Membership is open to anybody who has made a substantial contribution - of any form - to Edubuntu.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Edubuntu Advocacy ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-advocacy
* Edubuntu Advocacy
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''
* '''comment:'''''needs a better description in Launchpad and also update here.''

==== Edubuntu Artwork ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-artwork
* This is the artwork team for the Edubuntu distribution. The artwork team is responsible for: Edubuntu wallpapers; Edubuntu icons; Edubuntu web art; and any other artwork that the distribution will require. Tasks will include: Reviewing artwork for appropriateness; Creating new artwork; Point of contact for community wishing to submit artwork
* ''This is an open team; any user can join and no approval is required.''''

==== Edubuntu Bugsquad ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-bugs
* The team for edubuntu bug triage. Meet us in #edubuntu or on the edubuntu-devel mailing list.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Edubuntu Documentation Team ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-doc
* The Ubuntu Documentation Project (UDP) is a community-driven (volunteer) project that develops and maintains documentation for Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu. The Edubuntu Documentation Team is a team within the Ubuntu Documentation Team that is dedicated to developing and maintaining documents for Edubuntu specifically.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''
* '''comment:'''''needs a better description in Launchpad and also update here.''

==== Edubuntu Handbook Contributors ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-handbook
* The Edubuntu Handbook is intended to be a gentle introduction for non-technical users to installing, configuring and, most importantly, using Edubuntu. In addition, we hope that the Handbook will grow to be an invaluable reference for new and intermediate users.
* Members of this team have contributed in some significant way to the Edubuntu Handbook (formerly "How To Cook Edubuntu").
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Edubuntu School Support ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-school-support
* Edubuntu team dedicated to providing support to schools installing linux and teaching pupils and staff to use linux in general. Performing a little advocacy as well, we hope to promote the use of linux in schools across the globe.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== EdubuntuStudyContent ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-study-content
* We commit to help to: Create new content both for teachers and students; Create content for training courses; Design courses syllabus; Analyze different tools people can use for teaching/studying purposes.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Edubuntu Testers ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-testers
* Team that make tests on Edubuntu operating system. The Edubuntu testing team aims to do the following: Provide an easy to use, modular testing system that all users can use; Also recruit testers and submit regular bug reports.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Edubuntu Website ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-website
* This is the website team for the Edubuntu distribution. The website team is responsible for the Edubuntu website. Tasks include: Reviewing content for suitability; Laying out roadmaps for future content and attending regular on-line IRC meetings.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Local Edubuntu Groups ====

* Belgian Edubuntu Team
* Bolivian Edubuntu Team
* Edubuntu Belgium
* Edubuntu Brasil
* Edubuntu Italian Team
* Edubuntu Chile
* Edubuntu-fr

=== Launchpad : Education ===

==== Education Enthusiasts ====

* https://launchpad.net/~education-enthusiasts
* The purpose of this team is to build a community of teachers, educational technologists, and anyone else interested in the educational applications of open source technology. To be successful in this, we need people of all talents - from those who can develop and improve software packages to those who can create and implement teaching plans and activities.
* ''This is an open team; any user can join and no approval is required.''

==== Ohio LoCo Education Team ====

* https://launchpad.net/~ohio-edu
* Goals: Educate and train users on Free software, including but not limited to Linux; Draft proposals for team members to start local workshops; Create and share resources such as lesson plans, class ideas, and software CD's; Offer a service to the community for free to advance their skills using Free software.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

=== Launchpad : School ===

==== Edubuntu School Support ====

* https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-school-support
* Edubuntu team dedicated to providing support to schools installing linux and teaching pupils and staff to use linux in general. Performing a little advocacy as well, we hope to promote the use of linux in schools across the globe.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Ubuntu Portuguese Schools ====

* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-escolas
* This team aims bringing Ubuntu to Portuguese schools (below university level). We collaborate directly with the Ubuntu Portuguese translation team.
* ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

==== Ubuntu Portuguese Schools ====

* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu.students
* Welcome to the Ubuntu Students homepage. Are you a student who is advocating Ubuntu and other Free Software? This team is designed especially for you. Our team is middle school / high school students, who want to work with other students worldwide, in efforts to promote Ubuntu and Free Software in their schools and help other students get involved.

* You have found this team because you are knowledgeable about Ubuntu and tools like Launchpad. Many other students have never heard of any computer groups, like the Ubuntu LoCo teams, even though they are excited about Ubuntu. Many other students are passionate about computing, but they have never heard of Ubuntu Linux and the resources of Free Software. By joining this group, you will have resources you'll need to reach out to these under-informed students, and encourage them to join the Ubuntu community.

* Students have a great deal to contribute to Free Software and the Ubuntu community, yet often they are simply unaware of any ways to participate. Help get the word out about the exciting things going on with Free Software.

* Further information and team collaboration tools can be found at:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudents

* For questions or collaboration ideas, our contact address is ubuntu.students@gmail.com or post a question on the Answers tab (above).

* You can also join Us in #ubuntu-students on irc.freenode.net
** ''This is a moderated team; all subscriptions are subjected to approval by one of the team's administrators.''

----
CategoryEducation
CategoryEducationCleanup
CategorySpec
