{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Education Programme : Planning : Lost and Found ==

==== [ purpose of this page ] ====

Old information that has been replaced but which could still be useful to extract and find a new home.

=== '''was''': wiki.edubuntu.org/education/ ===

=== Education Programme Mission ===

The Education Programme supports Canonical's mission to realise the potential of free software in the lives of individuals and organisations by providing a specific focus on Education markets.

In particular, the Education Programme strives to:

* Position Ubuntu and its variants as the dominant Linux distribution in the Education Sector
* Stimulate the growth of open source software, communities and skills in the Education Sector
* Support Canonical and Ubuntu in order to ensure the Education Programme is Sustainable

=== Education Solution Space ===

In order to provide a single landing zone and information area where users and stakeholders can find ready access to resources around a total education solution, we are creating an Education Solution Space directly off the Ubuntu Web Site.

We have debated that it is not sufficient to direct our users directly into the *.edubuntu,org web areas, as this is a essentially a product focused area.

For example:

In a large scale education deployment the users and administrators will not rely entirely on Edubuntu for all areas of the solution.

* The Classroom Desktop will usually be an Edubuntu install
* The Classroom Server will usually be an Edubuntu install, LTSP or otherwise

But Back End Support Services for the classroom will probably use an Ubuntu install:
** Mail Servers
** Web Servers
** Proxy / Cache / Content Filtering
** Firewalling

If we want to convey a clear understanding of the whole environment:
** Products to use
** How to get install versions of the products
** How to find documenation for the products
** How to get support for the installs

we will need to provide an overall view, with links to appropriate areas, resources, and people in the broader Ubuntu community.
  
=== Education Sector : User and Profiling Exercise ===

The first step in indentifying the requirements for the Education Solution Space has been
to draw up a list of the categories of users and stakeholders in the target sector.

* Users : are people who will use the software directly
* Stakeholders : are people who are have in interest in the Ubuntu software or the education enviroment, but who may not be actual end users of the software. This includes:
** Developers
*** Software
*** Content
** Partners
** Education Decision Makers

The category list will be published here for comment.

We are then profiling the categories of people interested in the software, to identify their specific needs with regard to:
* information requirements
* software requirements
* support requirements
** documentation
** FAQs
** mail-lists

The first draft of this will be available for comment by the end Wednesday Sep 20

==== [ document details ] ====

This page is a planning and discussion document for open discussion.

* Author
** Richard Weideman
** Education Programme Manager
** IRC #edubuntu <RichEd>
** richard@ubuntu.com

* Editing
** Please sugest changes to the author via email rather than modifying directly
