{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Quick Profile ==
* Launchpad Profile: https://launchpad.net/people/earobinson
* Ubuntu Forums Profile: http://www.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=4982
* IRC: earobinson
* email: earobinsonDONOTINCLUDETHIS@ubuntu.com
* blog: http://earobinson.blogspot.com
* website: http://www.edwardandrewrobinson.com

== About Me ==
My name is Edward Robinson currently living in Ontario, Canada. I’m a computer science major at the University of Toronto and I have been using Linux since 2003 and Ubuntu since May 2005.

I would like to see Ubuntu grow, and more users being able to use Ubuntu problem free. To do this I feel that One of the most important things is to support new users, and the Ubuntu forums have played a very important role in this. I would like to continue to become a part of this growing community, and to grow with it. I became a ubuntu member on '''<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=1&day=24&year=2006&hour=21&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|January 24 2006, 21:00 UTC]]</nowiki>'''!

== Skills ==
* C++
* Java
* Python
* Matlab

== Activity ==
 1. Spreading the Ubuntu spirit. I do this by showing many people the distribution and open source programs in general. Also I give out the CD’s!
 2. I am very active on the Ubuntu forums

== My plans and ideas for Ubuntu and Linux ==
* For now I would like to stay focused on providing support, and making it as easy as possible for people to run Ubuntu and Linux in general, because I feel that with a larger user base will help Ubuntu and Linux grow more than anything.
== Contributions ==
* Total posts more than 1222

== Usefull Help Links ==
I have moved this to http://www.edwardandrewrobinson.com/ubuntuquicklinks

== Links ==
* CommunityCouncilAgenda
* IdeaPool
* ImportantEvents
* BootCharting (An easy way for anyone to help out)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases|Releases]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
