{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Who Am I? ===

25 year old, educator, working for youth mental-health in french public hospital.

Involved in ubuntu french community since warty release, i've recently join the french LoCoTeam administrating group ( most of my (ubuntu related) work is related to french website, planet, wiki and IRC channels)

Email: 
=== Documentation for ubuntu membership ===

* '''French LoCoTeam''' (new) administrator, see https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-fr
* involved in some teams, see https://launchpad.net/~effraie/+participation
* doing support on forum.ubuntu-fr.org,  mostly for powerpc community,
* maintening a '''french documentation for ubuntu-ppc''' see http://blog.effraie.org/tag/PowerPC ,
* maintening a third-part repository, for a few missing or bugged packages in ubuntu-ppc repositories (for example, a rebuild of xkb-data providing a correct french macintosh keymap). My packages are build following the french packaging documentation, mostly done by gpocenteck (<nowiki>[[Gauvain]]</nowiki>), mr_pouit ( LionelLeFolgoc ), Lutin ( AlbinTonnerre )... see http://mental-ppc.tuxfamily.org/ , currently migrating to http://mental-ppc.dunnewind.net/
* '''testing and building medibuntu powerpc binary-packages''', see http://medibuntu.org/ , https://launchpad.net/~medibuntu-maintainers and https://launchpad.net/~medibuntu-testers
* Involved in http://planet.ubuntu-fr.org,
* Moderating / spam filtering (!!) on the '''ubuntu-art team mailing-list''',
* huge involvement in '''#ubuntu-fr-classroom''', an IRC channel created by Gpocentek, firts in order to teach some french packager. The project is now growing and changing in a more general teaching channel, related to Ubuntu, linux, free-software related topics (see http://u-classroom.net/ , our (very new) website)

I think the list is now complete... the most important issue, in my opinion, is my new participation in the french LoCoTeam administration. '''Beeing ubuntu-member seems important to me,in that context'''.

=== Projects ===

==== Ubuntu-related ====

Well, mostly continu the work begining by YannHamon, DavidLarlet & JulienRottenberg in ubuntu-fr LoCoteam. The community is now huge, and it means many projects, many events and communication needs.
The second project i hope make growing up is u-classroom, wich i think is a very powerful way to make people involved in ubuntu and free software community. 

==== MeFaB ====

Mefab is a project i did launch with ArthurLoiret. MeFaB, or MEntal FArm Buildd is a project who's main goal is to provide a powerful, decentralized and esay to use buildd. It 
allow some interesting features such as cross compiling, send/get between "incoming" and the builders, and a few others. The project is very new 
on this time, but is in active development, we hope it will be over soon. :)
You can have a look to <nowiki>[[http://mefab.effraie.org/]]</nowiki>, but the code is written faster than the wiki...
----
CategoryHomepage

=== Testimonials ===

ArthurLoiret: effraie has helped many times french people one IRC and on install parties, and especially helped to set up #ubuntu-fr-classroom chan who's main goal is to help new french Ubuntu packages and developers. I hope all his help would be appreciated. :)
