{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This document describes the policy for updating packages shipping EFI binaries via new upstream versions in a stable, supported release (including LTS releases).  This is an exception to the standard SRU process.

The following source packages are covered by this exception:
* shim
* shim-signed
* fwupdate
* fwupdate-signed

The following source packages are explicitly *NOT INCLUDED* in the exception:
* grub2

EFI packages provided by the community may regularly provide bug fixes and improvements to support new hardware, new firmware releases or to work around bugs in firmware not otherwise easily fixable by updating the firmware itself. These help ensure our users can have a secure and up-to-date system to run Ubuntu on.

Furthermore, these packages can require a special signing procedure which may include a round-trip to a third-party for signing. This tends to significantly increase the round-trip time to providing the updates to our users.

New versions of the packages covered by this exception can be SRU'd in to older releases provided the following process is followed.

=== QA Process ===

<TBD>

=== Requesting the SRU ===

The SRU should be done with a single process bug for this stable release exception, instead of individual bug reports for individual bug fixes. However, individual bugs may be referenced in the from the changelog but each of those bugs will need to independently verified and commented on for the SRU to be considered complete.
