{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Overview ===

Egyptian LoCo team Magazine for the Arabian Ubuntu Community.

=== Detail ===

What about creating a magazine for helping Egyptian Ubuntu community in the Ubuntu distro and all its derivatives by providing articles, tutorials and also be in touch with the FOSS news and to spread Ubuntu over Egypt ?

=== Resources Required ===

Only volunteers and actually we have them :D

=== Interested people ===

* Ahmed Toulan 
* Mohamed Gamal 
* Islam Al-Wazery
* Anas Emad
* Mahmoud Fawzy
* Hani Gamal
* Mohamed Zaian

=== Ideas ===

* Interactive Contents like videos (because it will be an e-magazine). '''Note:''' this won't affect it's size because any content will be placed as a reference.
* Write (some of) it in Egyptian Slang.
* Write some Tutorials for Ubuntu and general tools (OMG UBUNTU Style).
* Each issue have a main article (Cover Article).
* Give free Apparels or CD's as a Monthly Contest Gifts.
* Make this magazine as a replacement for Ubuntu plus and contacting their writers for help and write it for all countries not only Egypt.
* Try to make it a monthly magazine.
* Interview articles with developers in Ubuntu.
* Application articles and alternatives.
* Translate articles from English magazines.
* Write Articles about Ubuntu-eg and arabic LoCo teams Events.
* Pay money to Arab writers to cover their countries events. (if we have money and there are events :D:D)
* Try to publish our first issue in October isA.

=== Approved ideas ===

* Write some Tutorials for Ubuntu and general tools (OMG UBUNTU Style).
* Each issue have a main article (Cover Article).
* Make this magazine as a replacement for Ubuntu plus and contacting their writers for help and write it for all countries not only Egypt.
* Try to make it a monthly magazine.
* Application articles and alternatives.
* Write Articles about Ubuntu-eg and arabic LoCo teams Events.
* Try to publish our first issue in October isA.
* The magazine will be in the standard Arabic.

=== Contents ===

* Editor in chief word or the issue word.
* Ubuntu and open source news.
* Editors articles.
* Tutorials and HOW TOs.
* Applications, Alternatives and Gaming.
* Technical articles.
* Q&A

=== People roles ===

* Anas Emad:
* Islam Al-Wazery: 

=== License ===

<nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/ | Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.0 Generic]]</nowiki>

=== Comments ===

<nowiki>[[http://foxoman.wordpress.com/2010/07/13/%D9%85%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A9-ubuntu-plus-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%AF%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AB%D8%A7%D9%86%D9%8A/| Ubuntu plus]]</nowiki> already exists :) I think we can just join the forces, despite I don't like their -all Arabic way of writing :) --MFawzy

Just a prototype for the Cover by me http://tiny.cc/xmuul --Islam Al-Wazery

Just a prototype for the Cover of the Maverick release article http://bit.ly/Maverick10 --Islam Al-Wazery
