{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

this is the log .. 
<pre>
<aboyousif> karimfayez, i hope people join by their wikinames .. it will be better i guess
<AmrEssam> should we introduce ourselves ?
<moamen> i second aboyousif
* ** moamen is now known as MoamenAzkoul
<karimfayez> guys please....we will start right now
<Butcher> Okay
<AmrEssam> ok
<karimfayez> let every thing be organized..
* samo_ sets mode +organized
<mzaza> Guys, don't you think that it will be great if you arrange a meeting that in it we organize the goals of the loco-team? Also you may find people to support you in your goals.
* ** samo_ is now known as theSamo
<karimfayez> we will start by introduction by alphabetic order
<theSamo> mzaza: yea, it's taking place right now :)
<karimfayez> aboyousif, your turn
<karimfayez> guys listen..
<seiflotf1> :)
<Butcher> Lestining
<aboyousif> well .. i'm mohamed 22 male :) .. from tanta .. use xubuntu
<AmrEssam> i think it's my turn
<karimfayez> yes
<karimfayez> go on
<AmrEssam> this is Amr Essam, 31, old web developer and shifting to linux and C++
<Butcher> Welcome Amr
<Butcher> :)
<AmrEssam> thks
* ** ahmed is now known as me2resh
<AmrEssam> u butcher..
<Butcher> Im Ahmed Adullah Cairo resident. Well, dont get mad at me
<Butcher> i still use Windows
<Butcher> i wish i will swich sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooon
<karimfayez> mmmmm.....soo u will change..
<CVirus> !
<karimfayez> compume??
<CVirus> moderate the channel
<Butcher> im here coz i like the open source world
<CVirus> isn't this supposed to be a meeting ?
<karimfayez> CVirus, they introduce their selves now
<CVirus> I see
<CVirus> karimfayez: can I do so ?
<karimfayez> CompuMe, its ur turn??
<aboyousif> karimfayez, CompuMe is idle
<aboyousif> CVirus, go on
<karimfayez> CVirus, go on
<CVirus> Hi .. I'm Mohamed Hazem .. 17 years old, using Kubuntu and I work as a technical engineer at Shuffle R&D
<CVirus> I'm a CS Student too
<karimfayez> Gharbeia, its ur turn..
<Gharbeia> karimfayez: My turn? I must be missing something grand
<CVirus> Gharbeia: introduce yourself
<karimfayez> introduce your self
<Gharbeia> Ah
<Gharbeia> Amr Gharbeia, 27 and counting, translator, blogger and a few other things. Interested in Arabic content on the web, and the Arabisation of FOSS.
<karimfayez> hassan, your turn
<aboyousif> Gharbeia, welcome amr :)
<Gharbeia> Hello aboyousif , everybody
<karimfayez> welcome
<karimfayez> hassan, u there?? idle for 16 min.
<hassan> I'm Hassan Ghozlan... 22 years old...a student in the electronics and communication dept at cairo univ
<karimfayez> nice
<karimfayez> my turn
<Butcher> yessss
<karimfayez> karim fayez native in faculty of engineering ainshams, mechatronics, ubuntu user since 5.04 24 years old and counting...
<karimfayez> martianixor, your turn..
<seiflotf1> ok matrianixor not here
<seiflotf1> some1 else
<karimfayez> me2resh, ur tern
* martianixor ok I'll be listening then
<martianixor> np continue :-)
<me2resh> ahmed abdel-aliem, native mechanical student, ain shams engineering, web systems analyst in recruitment company, LAMP expert, into php development, linux servers building and maintaining
<me2resh> martianixor: go on
<martianixor> shadi mohammed, 23 supporting Open-Source software whenever I can
<karimfayez> MoamenAzkoul, ur turn
<MoamenAzkoul> well .. i'm Mo'men 21 male , Alexandria , Mech. Eng. student Alex Uni. and i use ubuntu since 5.10 breezy
<karimfayez> agda3 nas
<karimfayez> mob, go on
<MoamenAzkoul> :D
<mob> yes here
<Gharbeia> AmrEssam: Seem like we are the old boys here :)
<AmrEssam> yeah :-)
<mob> well, i am mobasher helmy moawad. a student in the fourth year (last i hope) computer engineering cairo uni, and a linux user since two years......now ubuntu user since 6 months !!
<karimfayez> MostafaAmer, ur turn...
<CVirus> karimfayez: make sure you log the meeting
<CVirus> gtg .. will try to pass by euro delly
<karimfayez> its logged on locobot
<karimfayez> ok..waiting for u
<CVirus> cool
<MostafaAmer> Hi all,I m mostafa amer,tanta univ. , computer & control eng. student
<aboyousif> CVirus, locobot_4 will take this job
<CVirus> karimfayez: will try :-)
<MoamenAzkoul> mzaza..go
<mzaza> MoamenAzkoul, ok, it's quite alot. hold on :D
<aboyousif> mzaza, make it simple as possible ..
<mzaza> Well, I'm Moustafa Zaza from Cairo and I'm 18. I'm as student at Faculy of Computers and Information, Cairo Universty.
<mzaza> I used to work in the hosting industry which through I got an idea about Linux and Spamming. First I was more interested in Spamming, I've had some fun and now I'm out. And now I'm dedicating my life to linux and the open source community.Gentoo is my favorite distro. But I believe that Ubuntu has better future in taking the desktop users from microsoft. So I'm trying to Spread Ubuntu.
<mzaza> it's not at all
<mzaza> It's my life story, rofl.
<karimfayez> seiflotf1, go on...u there??
<seiflotf1> sorry stil lprogramign o ntomboy
<seiflotf1> hehehe
<seiflotf1> hi
<seiflotf1> my name is Seif Lotfy
<seiflotf1> Computational Engineering student in Darmstadt Germany
<aboyousif> seiflotf1, in this "lprogramign o ntomboy" i know you do c# :)
<seiflotf1> than kyou
<seiflotf1> :)
<seiflotf1> i do
<karimfayez> swedy, go on
<seiflotf1> well i have been using linux for 6 years now and ubuntu since 4.10
<swedy> hi all !
<karimfayez> sorry seiflotf1 continue
<seiflotf1> its ok
<seiflotf1> :)
<seiflotf1> go on
<seiflotf1> i also wokr as a part time software engineer at fraunhofer institut
<swedy> am Ahmed Swidan , am a communications engineer student in modern academy for engineering , last year ( I HOPE:D )
<seiflotf1> and i program for the GermanTeam RObotics
<karimfayez> theSamo, go on
<theSamo> Kareem Kenawy, first year dentistry ASU, ubuntu since breezy. linux since 2003.
<theSamo> that's all
<AmrEssam> Karim..
<aboyousif> we will not start it again .. right :)
<Butcher> :)
<aboyousif> karimfayez,
<karimfayez> now...i have to say something...our goal here is to help the migration to opensource software specially ubuntu linux as a loco team... but i believe we dont mind having people using other OSs as we will not be involved in the OSs war outside
<seiflotf1> ncie idea
<seiflotf1> :)
<mzaza> karimfayez, We should organize some events for Ubuntu, linux in common.
<seiflotf1> guys brb
<mzaza> tyt
<aboyousif> mzaza, we are ubuntu loco ..so our field is ubuntu ..
<karimfayez> now with our status...we have we currently have 34 members on launchpad which is a very good start
<AmrEssam> so how r we going to do so, r we going to give support for egyptians for example ?
<mzaza> Well, it's ok with me. I always believe that Unix like system is the right choice. And I my self like ubuntu.
<MoamenAzkoul> it's a very good start to have 34 ACTIVE member
<mzaza> I can get other experts to join.
<karimfayez> yes it is....
<karimfayez> guys lets be organized... the next subject is organisation structure...every body who needs to talk in the speakers list of this subject please send a + sign and we will go in turn
<aboyousif> karimfayez, 34 is the all numbers we need to know who is ready to be " active "
<seiflotf1> sorry
<MoamenAzkoul> +
<karimfayez> guys moaz will intoduce himself first
<mob> Moaz: I didn't introduce my self
<MoamenAzkoul> :D .. go ahead moaz
<mob> Moaz : I am Moaz reyad, computer engineer and C++ developer. I am using Ubuntu from months.
<Butcher> Welcome Moaz
<karimfayez> now who will be added in the speakers list for organisation structure??
<Butcher> :
<MoamenAzkoul> +
<MostafaAmer> +
<Butcher> +
<mzaza> +
<karimfayez> MoamenAzkoul, start
<MoamenAzkoul> ok
<MoamenAzkoul> basically i think that we need to find means so that we can start helping each other easily b4 going the the outside world
<MoamenAzkoul> from what we knew not all of us are on the same amount of knowledge when it comes to linux
<MoamenAzkoul> so there must be classes of members ..
<MoamenAzkoul> ppl who can give real support and ppl who can help with the common stuff
<MoamenAzkoul> and also in the strucure we ave to regard the location factor
<MoamenAzkoul> the main concentration is in cairo .. but we mustn't disregard other places too
<karimfayez> yes of course...
<MoamenAzkoul> done :D
<karimfayez> MostafaAmer, go on...
<MostafaAmer> ok
<MostafaAmer> I agree with Moamen about member classes
<MostafaAmer> but i disagree with the classification criterion
<MostafaAmer> as a LoCo
<MostafaAmer> I believe we should differintiate between supporting users
<MostafaAmer> and spreading the use of Ubuntu
<MostafaAmer> most of people use their compouters for simple tasks
<MostafaAmer> and i think those people is our main target
<MostafaAmer> if we seek wide spread for Ubuntu
<MostafaAmer> also I'd like to ask
<MostafaAmer> is there a proposed organisation structure?or shall we propose one?
<karimfayez> we shall propose one
<karimfayez> +
<MostafaAmer> ok so we shall assign a deadline for this task and give it a priority
<MostafaAmer> another issue
<AmrEssam> +
<MostafaAmer> I assume there will be elections
<MostafaAmer> (wa hanmasheeha sha3bi el saboor el mehawed :D)
<karimfayez> i have a different point of view..
<MostafaAmer> who will have the right to vote?
<MostafaAmer> done for now )
<karimfayez> every member will have the right to vote...but i believe we dont have to have an official leader..we can only assign a
<karimfayez> moderators for the loco..
<karimfayez> a group of moderators
<MostafaAmer> this depend on the proposed structure
<karimfayez> Butcher, your turn
<Butcher> What you've said is great, guyz
<Butcher> but we have to set our Vision and Mession first before any structure building
<Butcher> Mission is what are we here for ??
<Butcher> Vision is what we want to be in the future
<Butcher> What we are doing now???
<Butcher> answers to set our Mission
<Butcher> the first mission is :-
<Butcher> Okay Kareem said ... we should set our vision first
<Butcher> great...
<Butcher> Vision guyz??
<karimfayez> well i think to make linux specially ubuntu a major partner in the OS market in egypt
<karimfayez> may be number one
<Butcher> Great
<Butcher> and ....
<MostafaAmer> i think our mission is the one stated in the wiki page as goals
<MostafaAmer> isnt it?
<MoamenAzkoul> i think the main aim for any LoCo team is to spread Ubuntu in general
<MoamenAzkoul> yeah mostafa .. exactly
<Butcher> we are talking aout Vision now peeps
<Butcher> about
<MoamenAzkoul> the vision ... to see Egypt runs FLOSS
<MoamenAzkoul> :)
<karimfayez> i agree
<Butcher> i gree
<Butcher> others
<Butcher> .....
<karimfayez> guys i believe its a good point to set a task for the vission and missions...what do u think??
<Butcher> wait kareem till we set the vision and the mession first
<Butcher> \
<MoamenAzkoul> yeah .. sure .. but this is a primary meeting .. we need to see how we'll work .. then .. figure out what we are gonna do
<karimfayez> yes
<karimfayez> mzaza, ur turn??
<mzaza> Well, I agree with all what you said. But *
<mzaza> I believe first we have to meet, face to face. Then we'll be able to organize the positions of everyone. After Organization of the team, we'll be able to set the mission and the vision as you said. Also about spreading linux.
<martianixor> +
<seiflotf1> i know i sound stupid
<seiflotf1> but how do we want to finance the whole thing
* martianixor for a suggestion
<mzaza> We shouldn't only provide support. But we should make campus in universities to spread the linux, make people know what's the diffrence between it and other systems, tell them the idea of the open source community, etc...
* martianixor and a request for reference
<karimfayez> i totally agree
<mzaza> donating
<karimfayez> seiflotf1, any suggestions
<seiflotf1> come on
<seiflotf1> who wil ldo that in egypt
<mzaza> other than to cash we'll get from support
<karimfayez> supplying commercial installations and support for companies
<MostafaAmer> FOLKS,,shouldnt we focus on Ubuntu?
* etank whispers to aboyousif to see if the meeting is still going now
<mzaza> providing support for companies will get us cash.
<MoamenAzkoul> guys .. i just wanna clear something out
<MoamenAzkoul> this is a LoCo team to support a certain distro
<MoamenAzkoul> and it's not a LUG
<Butcher> a great distro
<Butcher> right?
<jadelrab> MoamenAzkoul, i agree
<mzaza> Ok, look. guys what i wanna u 2 know that we need to meet, face to face
<MoamenAzkoul> well ... it's is a LUG in some form but still limited to one distro
<karimfayez> MoamenAzkoul, i agree with u...when we talk about linux we mean ubuntu
* ** jadelrab is now known as aboyousif
<MoamenAzkoul> yeah .. so i think the goals in the wiki page are very sufecient for a loCo don't you think??
<MostafaAmer> I agree
<karimfayez> me too..but for only a start...keep dreaming guys
<MoamenAzkoul> "keep dreaming" ... what do u mean?
<AmrEssam> (y)
<karimfayez> i mean...when u shoot to the stars u will minimum land on moon...keep high goals
<AmrEssam> right Karim
<MoamenAzkoul> yeah ... we can be as a STRONG LOCO team a very powerfull part the existing eglug community
<MoamenAzkoul> why should we start from scratch (when it comes to spreading linux in general ) while there is already work being done
<karimfayez> we are not a part of eglug...but we shall work together...remember that we are dedicated to ubuntu
<MoamenAzkoul> that's exactly what i meant karim
<MostafaAmer> NO2TET NEZAM
<MostafaAmer> I think we are a little bit drifted from the main point "Organization structure"
<MoamenAzkoul> i 2nd Mostafa
<karimfayez> yes
<karimfayez> ok back...next speaker
<karimfayez> AmrEssam, ur turn
<AmrEssam> well i think the technical support is the key
<AmrEssam> either for free or to finance this group
<karimfayez> the support has its own point on the agenda
<AmrEssam> i also think we should not focus on who's the boss, and rather focus on what we should do
<Butcher> right
<AmrEssam> i think we should prepare ourselves for the support
<karimfayez> yes
<aboyousif> i don't support finance support .. not as a loco ofcourse
<AmrEssam> we can distribute the tasks, i mean one to support the interface, other for connectivity,....
<karimfayez> why?? for companies and not for personal use
<Butcher> what about biggners
<Butcher> ???
<Butcher> what about supporting biggners
<MoamenAzkoul> and that will take us bake to members classes
<AmrEssam> and always think of financials to be realistic.
<aboyousif> karimfayez, cause loco is not a profit team ..
<AmrEssam> i'm done for now, tahnks.
<karimfayez> i believe the first step is to develop our team internally
<MoamenAzkoul> exactly karim
<aboyousif> karimfayez, and if someone want to get money he can work in any it field and get money from it even by supporting linux on it
<karimfayez> but canonical gives u this chance
<karimfayez> not money for us..but to develop the team
<MoamenAzkoul> back to the point please
<aboyousif> karimfayez, if it by finance it will not be volunteering .. it will be more to commitement and such thing you know ..
<karimfayez> i know...so we need to form the team from internal and see who can be committed
<karimfayez> ok...schedules...and time line speakers please send + sign
<Butcher> +
<MostafaAmer> +
<karimfayez> Butcher, go on
<MoamenAzkoul> it's martian's turn i think
<karimfayez> sorry...
<karimfayez> martianixor, go on...organisation structure
<martianixor> karimfayez: aboyousif already mentioned the financing part
<karimfayez> yes
<karimfayez> and what do u think??
<martianixor> also I think folks here should be contributing as members of the EGLUG community
<martianixor> Ubuntu LOCO and EGLUG may be kind of different but not separate
<martianixor> as well as maintaining a flat structure
<martianixor> not a pyramid
<martianixor> this is not a commercial-related organization is it?
<martianixor> everything should be voluntarily done
<martianixor> I'm sure there're folks welling to donate, I'm not good at that financing part, but I don't think you'd like to see Ubuntu like another RedHat, am i right?
<MoamenAzkoul> completly
* ** ahmed__ is now known as karimfayez
<karimfayez> i am back
<aboyousif> karimfayez, bad wifi in delli ?
<mobasherhelmy> am i back ?
<karimfayez> yes
<MoamenAzkoul> i think we keep getting out of the topic ... a simple question ... Does any body have a clear idea about how we shoul structure out team
<karimfayez> i believe i do
<MoamenAzkoul> then go ahead
<karimfayez> i think we dont need an official leader...we need a moderators group...and we can make sub teams specialized in some topics..so we can cover many things. plus we can offer commertial installations and support for companies and i think we have a company about to be ready...
<\msg> ff
<\msg> hey
<aboyousif> karimfayez, i still insist of making commercial support by individuals not as a loco ..
<martianixor> moderators group who believe that they're going to manage maintaining the LOCO's activity nomatter what changes occur to the board of members
<karimfayez> yes
<\msg> tes
<\msg> yes
<martianixor> s/activity/activities/
<karimfayez> how by individuals aboyousif
<MostafaAmer> About the financing issue
<MostafaAmer> I disagree with making it commercial
<aboyousif> karimfayez, individuals .. yourself .. not as a loco
<MostafaAmer> I prefer financing projects IF NEEDED by means of sponsorship
<MostafaAmer> or individuals donation
<karimfayez> i agree...although i believe we can give commertial support but may be we are not ready yet
<MoamenAzkoul> we are dicussing so many things all at one time
<MostafaAmer> yes , and i hope if we can strict to the agenda plz
<MLAw> well i guess first we must first make others know that we r good at supporting then we can goto the another level of commercial matters
<martianixor> excuse me guys but you decided what are those donations needed for?
<AmrEssam> sponsorship
<AmrEssam> [21:50] <MostafaAmer> or individuals donation
<martianixor> how are those donations going to be allocated? I mean that's the way will help you figure out how big the needed donations are !!
<karimfayez> yes...we can have a place in smart village...the place is ready...but stickers, rent areas for fests
<karimfayez> and so on
<martianixor> MLAw: excuse me but I don't think the word commercial should be used at all regarding the LOCO's activities, if I'm wrong "please" anyone correct me
<MoamenAzkoul> sorry guys but i think you are getting ahead of things
<karimfayez> according to canonical we can
<karimfayez> ok...lets move this point
<karimfayez> schedules...
<MostafaAmer> MOTION:append the financing issue to the next meetings agenda
<karimfayez> i believe most of us have exams...soon
<aboyousif> karimfayez, very soon actually
<AmrEssam> i don't :-p
<MLAw> same here :P
<karimfayez> yessss...so what do u think...
<MoamenAzkoul> i think we need to be an active group before deciding anything
<MostafaAmer> I beleive we need more time to organize ourselves
<MoamenAzkoul> exactly
<MostafaAmer> deciding our police about projects,financing,etc
<MostafaAmer> policy*
<karimfayez> ok...first step to develop the team...yes??
<MoamenAzkoul> that comes after being an actual group
<AmrEssam> yes
<MoamenAzkoul> yes
<martianixor> guys, considered contacting other LOCOs all over the world regarding the financing part?
<karimfayez> i will....
<karimfayez> on the mailing list
<MLAw> yes and we can see what others did and see what we can do here
<MostafaAmer> Again
<MostafaAmer> MOTION:append the financing issue to the next meetings agenda
<MostafaAmer> I think it s too early to discuss it now and it consumes our time
<MLAw> yes
<karimfayez> yes
<karimfayez> ya shabab......schedules
<karimfayez> ??
<MoamenAzkoul> suggest
<AmrEssam> weekly ?
<karimfayez> i believe every official move will be suspended till 15/6
<MostafaAmer> disagree
<MostafaAmer> i suggest finishing the managerial part before this time
<\msg> semi disagree
<MostafaAmer> and i mean the organizational structure
<karimfayez> any sugesstions??
<MostafaAmer> plan of action
<MoamenAzkoul> i think karim is right
<MostafaAmer> policies
<MostafaAmer> etc
<MLAw> we can still make meeting and organize ourself to be ready by this date to make some steps
<karimfayez> yes... i meant we will not dissappear but we will not be very active
<MostafaAmer> of course we will not be able to make public projects
<MostafaAmer> but at least we may proceed in the organizational issues
* ** jadelrab is now known as aboyousif
<karimfayez> yes...i agree
<MLAw> same here
<MoamenAzkoul> ok ... 1 team leader 3 moerators(for the forum ) rest are embers
<MoamenAzkoul> and all the content on th forums (i strongly suggest) to be in Arabic
<MostafaAmer> is that a proposed structure?
<MoamenAzkoul> i'm proposing one .. feel free to object
<\msg> Moamenazkoul ...... i disagree on arabic proposal
<MostafaAmer> I m not objecting :)
<MostafaAmer> I second the arabic proposal
<MostafaAmer> in Ubuntu manifest
<MoamenAzkoul> we are a LoCo .. shoudln't we be at least Loco
<MoamenAzkoul> and BTW i think that lacking Arabic content is killing eglug
<MostafaAmer> the language is strongly mentioned as a strength point
<karimfayez> guys....concentrate on the point....
<karimfayez> this point is in goals...
<karimfayez> we are now in schedule
<MostafaAmer> also LOCOs are encouraged to support their native language by translating content
<MoamenAzkoul> ok .. 1 leader - 3 moderators
<MoamenAzkoul> meeting every week on irc untill 15/6 the we go back to face to face thing
<karimfayez> ok guys...lets vote for MoamenAzkoul sugesstions.
<karimfayez> yes = +1
<MostafaAmer> i second the weekly ONLINE meetings till 15/6
<karimfayez> no= -1
<MoamenAzkoul> +1
<MostafaAmer> +1
<karimfayez> first lets vote for 1 leader 3 mods..
<MoamenAzkoul> +1
<karimfayez> +1
<MostafaAmer> -1 [I beleive we need more explanation,suggest postponing it to next meeting]
<karimfayez> we need 10 votes...so vote guys
<MLAw> +1
<MoamenAzkoul> vote guys .... yes or no .your vote counts.. this is not the presidential elections
<jadelrab> +1
<\msg> +1
<karimfayez> 6/10...
<karimfayez> still neds four
<jadelrab> karimfayez, well let's postpone it
<karimfayez> moaz: 0
<mzaza> +1
<farghal> sorry I am too late... what are we voting on?
<\msg> Translation tutorials into arabic
<karimfayez> 1 leader, 3 moderators to the team
<\msg> sorry
<AmrEssam> -1
<\msg> +1
<jadelrab> \msg, voted twice
<mobasherhelmy> +1
<karimfayez> now we need only 2 votes
<farghal> +1
<karimfayez> 1 to go
* MLAw away for a while sorry
<MoamenAzkoul> VITE + or - but VOTE
<karimfayez> ok guys i believe this motion failed for now... it will be postponed to next meeting...
<karimfayez> now with the goals..
<karimfayez> 1. develop the team technical abilities
<AmrEssam> +
<MostafaAmer> +
<\msg> +
<karimfayez> this is not a vote guys
<jadelrab> karimfayez, they want mic maybe :)
<AmrEssam> we r asking the word, to talk
<karimfayez> i have a proposal... every one who is specialized in a topic to explain it to others in team so we can gather the maximum benefit for the team
<jadelrab> karimfayez, wait
<karimfayez> AmrEssam, you can talk
<AmrEssam> exactly karim
<jadelrab> why not we add our profiles to the wiki ?
<AmrEssam> i just wanted to say what u said, (y)
<jadelrab> it will be better and more organizing than every one speak about him self
<AmrEssam> done
<karimfayez> i believe yes
<karimfayez> ok.. this is task number 1.. to adda
<MostafaAmer> did we agreed on the schedules point????
<karimfayez> a wiki page for every one with his specified fields
<karimfayez> MostafaAmer, we agreed to postpone our official moves till 15/6 while keeping weekly online meetings
<MostafaAmer> ok :)
<\msg> tamam
<karimfayez> 2. appear in media??
<MostafaAmer> I dont beleive this should be a goal
<AmrEssam> +
<MostafaAmer> media should be employed if needed
<karimfayez> why?? its asked by canonical..
<\msg> look i can about the loco in 20at.com a youth website which has cool traffic
<\msg> i can write ...
<MoamenAzkoul> well .. sure we'll use the media to spread the word
<MoamenAzkoul> after we already have a content that will draw users to it
<karimfayez> i had a deal with teenstuff to have an article about ubuntu and the loco in july's issue
<AmrEssam> i think it's too early for media, we don't even know each others...
<MostafaAmer> I agree
<MoamenAzkoul> me too
<\msg> +
<\msg> i agre
<\msg> i agree
<karimfayez> we will talk about ubuntu and the formation of the loco..nothing more...specially about ubuntu
* ** jadelrab is now known as aboyousif
<MostafaAmer> that s a particualr situation,,,we are discussing the media issue as a goal
<MostafaAmer> if we would like to discuss the teenstuff articel ,,i think there is no problem in it,,in fact it s a very good start
<karimfayez> and i was thinking of contacting lo3'at el 3asr and coordinating in supplying ubuntu CDs and an article abou ubuntu as they did with several linux types
<aboyousif> karimfayez, will they provide the copys or us ?
<karimfayez> they will
<aboyousif> karimfayez, so we just give them a copy and article explain it
<karimfayez> yes
<aboyousif> karimfayez, good
<karimfayez> should we step to next goal??
<karimfayez> 3. installation fest..
<MostafaAmer> +
<aboyousif> karimfayez, don't know i missed alot of things here cause of this stupid connection i will read the log later .. try to complete your job
<MostafaAmer> I think it s too early to discuss it now
<aboyousif> +
<karimfayez> but i believe it comes after the team internal development
<MostafaAmer> lets organize ourselves first
<aboyousif> there is alot of problems in doing installfest .. first we don't have a place .. second who will volunteer to do it and how you will attract people to attend it .. etc
<\msg> What about the setting our Vision and Mission
<\msg> i think this is the core
<aboyousif> i prefer it a co-work between us and eglug
<\msg> which will organize everythign later
<karimfayez> we can make a publicity plan for it...the place is just sakiat el sawy...and i believe lots here will volenteer
<karimfayez> i agree...but it will be just ubuntu
<MostafaAmer> we may review this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoWorkingWithOtherGroups
<MostafaAmer> before we decide anything abt eglug
<aboyousif> karimfayez, depends ..
<karimfayez> how??
<MostafaAmer> just to know the guidelines in this matter
<aboyousif> karimfayez, if eglug organizes it and you just participate it will not be totally ubuntu .. if you organized and eglug accept to share it with you the ubuntu people only who will participate i think which they are loco's already i think
<karimfayez> i believe we can manage with eglug about this matter
<aboyousif> too many "i think " :)
<karimfayez> A[D]minS, you are in eglug..what do u thimk??
<aboyousif> theSamo,
<aboyousif> MHazem,
<aboyousif> martianc1de,
<karimfayez> should we pass to next goal?
<aboyousif> karimfayez, ok i will see about that with people in eglug
<karimfayez> 4.switching 100 users to ubuntu at least??
<MostafaAmer> this may be done
<karimfayez> i believe even its a small goal
<MostafaAmer> i m participating in IEEE competetion
<MostafaAmer> and I think we may manage to influence people there towards Ubuntu and FOSS
<karimfayez> i agree
<karimfayez> i managed to switch around 20 till now this year
<MostafaAmer> also i beleive that "converting" people with less knowledge about computers is much more easier than others
<MostafaAmer> there needs are simple
<karimfayez> may be..
<MostafaAmer> nice,clean office suite :)
<martianc1de> aboyousif: sorry had a disconnection problem
<aboyousif> martianc1de, no problem we are all the same :)
<MostafaAmer> if we managed to convince them to switch to ubuntu
<MostafaAmer> with friendly support and troubleshooting
<MostafaAmer> they may become loyal users of Ubuntu :)
<MostafaAmer> also another sector
<MostafaAmer> is small organizations,associations,and small business
<MostafaAmer> but for those
<MostafaAmer> we may concentrate on licensing
<MostafaAmer> aware them abt the consequences of using unlicensed windows copy
<MostafaAmer> and let them know about the benfits of using ubuntu
<karimfayez> u cant concentrate on licensing with users who use cracked windows
<MostafaAmer> u can :)
<karimfayez> anyways i believe its an easy goal...u agree??
<MostafaAmer> if u managed to make them afraid of "reqabet el mosanfat" :)
<MostafaAmer> totally agree
<karimfayez> now to the hard point
<karimfayez> support plan...
<MostafaAmer> In fact i suggest making it a theme
<MostafaAmer> support plan :)
<karimfayez> i managed with the map developers team to develop a map of supporters in 11 cities in egypt...
<karimfayez> those who can make demos, give free CDs and help in first installations
<karimfayez> so we need the emails, phones and coordinations on google earth
<karimfayez> in the 11 cities...so if some one needs support he just sees who is nearand contact him
<aboyousif> karimfayez, is the 11 cities defined or we will pick the first 11 or what ?
<karimfayez> i defined them already
<aboyousif> pass ya king
<karimfayez> cairo, alex, suez, portsaid, luxor, aswan, asyut, hurghada, sharm el sheikh, tanta :), marina
<karimfayez> so??
<MostafaAmer> I may suggest making a support team or commitee
<MostafaAmer> with a coordinator
<aboyousif> karimfayez, cairo is big .. we should consider cairo and giza at least
<MostafaAmer> who is responsible of maintaining the map
<aboyousif> karimfayez, drop marina ..
<karimfayez> well... its great cairo and i started to gather people
<MostafaAmer> some sort of a DB of users
<MostafaAmer> something like that
<martiancode> yeah they're not "fadyeen" for Linux there
<martiancode> heh
<karimfayez> marina is an alternative place for a large number of eople and if we had someone there in summer it will be great..we can support u even in ur summer vacation...hehehehe
<MostafaAmer> LoL
<MostafaAmer> ganban ela ganb m3a booth firouz
<aboyousif> karimfayez, it is not a priority i think .. and beside that no one thinks in linux in marina :P
<MostafaAmer> ma3alina
<aboyousif> Moamen, you know marina right ?
<Moamen> sorry guys .. got an electricity blackout
<Moamen> what do u mean i know marina?
<aboyousif> this log will be maskhara .. see how troubles we face just to make an irc chat :P
<MostafaAmer> i suggest adding the support to the structure
<MostafaAmer> I m nt expert in that,,so if anybody want to comment on me
<aboyousif> Moamen, marina the city
<theSamo> well, i went to marina last summer, was bored as hell, so i must have thought of linux
<martiancode> Moamen: yeah power failures sucks :S
<theSamo> i missed out on most of the meeting apperantly
<aboyousif> theSamo, you are geek .. other people there are not :P
<Moamen> all of Egypt knows Marina jad
<karimfayez> theSamo, you can check the log
<karimfayez> yesssssss
<aboyousif> Moamen, i know just the name .. will visit it later isa :)
<theSamo> wel, what are you guys discussing now
<theSamo> which point int the agenda
<Moamen> :D .. good for ya ...
<aboyousif> karimfayez, i just want cairo to be cairo and giza
<Moamen> so how are we doin with the issues in hand
<MostafaAmer> may I ask a question?
<karimfayez> we are working on it...but its ok to work on the others also..we have nothing to lose
<karimfayez> yes
<aboyousif> theSamo, we are talking about support map there is only 11 city and cairo is considerd as the great cairo .. and there is marina i say we should drop marina and add giza
<karimfayez> ?
<MostafaAmer> in the future
<seiflotfy> wohooooooooooooooo
<MostafaAmer> the support team will be maintained by the whole Loco?or just a group of it?
<theSamo> ah, that's outside my interests
<seiflotfy> tomorrow big band jam
<seiflotfy> :)
<theSamo> what big band?
<karimfayez> will be maintained by the leaders and mods if found...hehehe
<MostafaAmer> if it will be maintained by a group (which i think is better)
<MostafaAmer> then we should postpone the details
<MostafaAmer> as long as we agree on the concept
<Moamen> guys i think we should drop the details untill the bug meeting
<theSamo> it will be maintained by people willing to support
<karimfayez> i believe so...
<seiflotfy> theSamo, big band means jazz band playing music and people dancing lindyhop to it
<MostafaAmer> so may we proceed to the next point?
<Moamen> now i believe we should have a mailing list asap
<Moamen> ]so we can support at least each other
<Moamen> and keep informed
<seiflotfy> http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-8813046752351917777&q=ulhs+2005+medium
<theSamo> seiflotfy: i know what a big band is :P i meant which one
<karimfayez> ok... i just want to ask every one who will support to put his details on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/supporters
<seiflotfy> some local band in darmstadt consists of studnets
<theSamo> cool
<theSamo> seiflotfy: what do you play
<Moamen> karim
<MostafaAmer> Moamen,if it will take effort i prefer to postpone it for now,as long as the wiki page can do it
<MostafaAmer> if it will not
<MostafaAmer> so lets do it
<seiflotfy> i dont
<seiflotfy> i dance
<seiflotfy> :)
<theSamo> oh, good :)
<MostafaAmer> but for the given number of userd
<seiflotfy> http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-8813046752351917777&q=ulhs+2005+medium
<MostafaAmer> i beleive the wiki page is enough
<aboyousif> MostafaAmer, 11 city not 11 user i think
<Moamen> we can have one on on google groups.. doesn't take a minute to setup
<karimfayez> our forum will be ready soon i hope and i requested a mailinglist 2 weeks ago
<seiflotfy> theSamo do u listen to bigbands
<theSamo> forum + mailing list = trouble
<Moamen> :)
<karimfayez> why??
<Moamen> or connectivity
<theSamo> we should have just one
<theSamo> having both is just... inconsistent
<theSamo> it's like making two irc channels
<aboyousif> i agree with theSamo but we can use both
<aboyousif> for example maillist for news and forums for discussion
<Moamen> a mailing list for us ... and a forum for the ppl we are talking to
<aboyousif> maillist = news , announcements .. etc
<karimfayez> its required by canonical to have both...a mailing list is just a way to send emails to users and not a discussion place
<theSamo> ah
<seiflotfy> dont we need to hunt for developers in egypt
<Moamen> now we need only a mailing list ... as it just as
<aboyousif> theSamo, e2ra elso2al 2abl ma tegaweb :P
<aboyousif> seiflotfy, no one will help you in C# :)
<theSamo> seiflotfy: i don't listen to alot, but i listen to the occasional miles and sun ra
<theSamo> aboyousif: what so2al
<theSamo> i didn't know you gus were planning to have an Annoucement mailing list
<aboyousif> theSamo, nm
<theSamo> guys^
<seiflotfy> i also program c/c++
<seiflotfy> java
<seiflotfy> ruby
<seiflotfy> and a little python
<aboyousif> theSamo, we will not rely on wiki spam forever :)
<Moamen> didnt you know .... we are planning to invade the universe :
<karimfayez> tayeb guys.... kol el abilities di please to be written in a wiki page..
<theSamo> a.k.a a newsletter
<karimfayez> a wiki for every member and add it in the members list
<theSamo> we need devs?
<karimfayez> or may be we can make a wiki for all our abilities..just write ur name and what u can do..
<seiflotfy> aboyousif: by the way alot of mono programs will be written for gnome now
<seiflotfy> :)
<theSamo> nah, not more spam
<theSamo> seiflotfy: i consider this bad news
<aboyousif> seiflotfy, i don't use gnome anymore
<aboyousif> seiflotfy, viva la xfce :P
<seiflotfy> well xfce for my laptop
<seiflotfy> but i always used gnome
<seiflotfy> plus the future leis between ruby python c# and java
<seiflotfy> and its looking better for c# i guess
<seiflotfy> java sucks
<aboyousif> seiflotfy, what is the need of c# if we have c c++ perl python ruby
<theSamo> i don't think we should be pushing c# on linux
<seiflotfy> the simplness of preogramming
<seiflotfy> ruby is too slow sometimes
<seiflotfy> python cant handle too big programs
<seiflotfy> c/c++ rock
<seiflotfy> i agree with that
<MostafaAmer> MAY WE PROCEED TO THE NEXT POINT ON THE AGENDA?
<seiflotfy> but not every1 lieks to program using them
<karimfayez> guys...i believe we ended the meeting but before we go.... a separate wiki for each member or a collective wiki?????
<seiflotfy> java and c# are simple and get the job done
<theSamo> karimfayez: collective
<theSamo> same as the members one
<theSamo> add a dev abilities cell
<theSamo> err, coloumn
<aboyousif> karimfayez, every registered user have a wiki page
<memo_> seperate
<theSamo> aboyousif: we should find a fix to this mail thing btw
<karimfayez> but not every one did it...i believe a collective one is better.. every thing on one page..
<memo_> it doesn't matter alo actually
<MLAw> back
<MostafaAmer> Ok,,abt next meeting
<MostafaAmer> when will it be?
<aboyousif> karimfayez, no .. we should involove in ubuntu community as well :)
<MostafaAmer> what is its agenda?
<karimfayez> we will keep on having weekly meetings online..
<MostafaAmer> so next meeting is on thursday
<aboyousif> karimfayez, but not in thursday plz
<MostafaAmer> 8:00 PM
<MLAw> yes plz
<karimfayez> i believe only important meetings ned agenda other talk about new things and discussions
<aboyousif> karimfayez, thursday is the "DAY"
<MostafaAmer> :D
<karimfayez> hehehehehe
<MLAw> abo ya gamed
<MostafaAmer> what about friday evening
<MostafaAmer> ?
<memo_> yeah .. i live fridays
<memo_> :d
<memo_> love*
<aboyousif> MLAw, don't understand it wrong :)
<MLAw> :P
<MLAw> i agree friday
<aboyousif> fridays is cool .. and saturday is off so it is ok
<theSamo> aboyousif: they don't know you well :P
<aboyousif> theSamo, the nickname cheated them :P
<farghal> friday is ok
<memo_> is there is a problem with fridays for anyone ?
<MostafaAmer> ok,,,I think it will be Friday
<MostafaAmer> is there any objection
<MostafaAmer> ?
<MostafaAmer> No :D
<MostafaAmer> rofe3t el galsa
<memo_> :d
<MostafaAmer> :d
<MLAw> yes fain elakel we keda
<MLAw> :P
<karimfayez> ok...lets vote on friday at 8:00 every week??? +1 for yes, -1 for no
<MostafaAmer> +1
<memo_> +1
<MLAw> +1
<farghal> +1
<aboyousif> well .. happy to chat with you guys and good luck for us :)
<theSamo> +1
<MLAw> abo u here or there
<aboyousif> MLAw, any place you want :) .. here feen ?
<MostafaAmer> one last thing about meetings,,,(srry guys 3arf enkom 3awzeen te2omo :))
<aboyousif> +1
<MLAw> cairo wala tanta i mean sorry
<MostafaAmer> the agenda
<aboyousif> MLAw, tanta
<karimfayez> ok guys...mabrooooook for the first meeting horaaaaaayyyy
<memo_> :D
<MLAw> :)
<MostafaAmer> :)
<MLAw> can someone save this meeting log
<memo_> hmmm...the agenda ... how about starting a small project for the non-student members
<AmrEssam_> +1
<MostafaAmer> may i raise a motion
<karimfayez> its logged and will be put on the meeting page soon
<karimfayez> raise a motion ya seedy
<MostafaAmer> a facilitator should collect all the suggested points
<MostafaAmer> and receive emails with suggestions
<MostafaAmer> send it to the next meeting chair person
<MostafaAmer> to approve it
<karimfayez> you can mail me and aboyousif anytime
<MostafaAmer> and publish it on the wiki page
<karimfayez> e3taberha done
<karimfayez> just email any one of us
<aboyousif> karimfayez, ??
<karimfayez> msh 3ayez walla eih??
<aboyousif> karimfayez, what ?
<karimfayez> any sugesstions and goals will be send to both of us to approve and post on wiki
<aboyousif> karimfayez, ok .. no problem
<MostafaAmer> ok
<MLAw> ok
<karimfayez> eshtaaaaaaaaaa
<aboyousif> MostafaAmer, you are my neighbor .. just order :)
<MostafaAmer> mashi ya sidi :)
<MostafaAmer> forsa sa3eeda
<MostafaAmer> w neshofkom yom el gom3a isa
<MLAw> isa
<AmrEssam_> isA
<aboyousif> MostafaAmer,
<MLAw> karim eb2a ekteb 3enwan delly beta3 dah
<aboyousif> MostafaAmer, pvt me with your msn or gmail messenger
<karimfayez> 7ader
<aboyousif> MLAw, it is only once in it .. next time new place
<karimfayez> i will go ba2a ya shabab el loco...hehehe
<MostafaAmer> aboyousif,get it?
<karimfayez> salut
<aboyousif> MostafaAmer, no
<MLAw> iam not going tanta mashy
<MLAw> salut karim
</pre>
