{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting Information:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time:
| 15:00
|-
| Location:
| Cilantro Abbas El3akkad
|}

== Agenda Items ==

* Current state of our operations documents.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/KnowledgeBase/Drafts/Council|Council]]</nowiki> formation.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/KnowledgeBase/Drafts/FirstCouncil|First council]]</nowiki>.

* Discussing Telecomix Egypt and its goals. [Nour Haridy]

* Discussing <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/KnowledgeBase/Drafts/Membership|Membership of Egypt LoCo Team]]</nowiki>.

* Discussing <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/KnowledgeBase/Drafts/FocusGroups|Focus Groups]]</nowiki> idea.

== Present ==

* Ahmed Toulan

* Abdallah Hodieb

* Jonathan N. Hindi

* Ahmed Refaat

* Mohamed Yousry

* Hala El Wazeery

* Ahmed Shams

* Osama Mongy

* Islam Hassan

* Mahmoud Fahmy

* Islam Metwally

* Khaled Saeed (Kif Caliph).

* Ahmed Sultan

* Mohamed Refaat

* Nour Haridy

* Mohamed Omar

* Islam El Wazeery

* Mohammed Refaat (Refa3tov).

* Islam Ismail.

* Mahmoud Fahmy.

== Conclusion ==

* General accepting on Telecomix partnership after more discussion on Mailinglist.

* General accepting on First Council initiative and forwarded for further discussion and voting on Mailinglist.

* General accepting on Council initiative and forwarded for further discussion and voting on Mailinglist.

* Focus Group initiative generally accepted and forwarded for further discussion and voting on mailing list.

* Discussing how to enhance our means of conducting support and/or training to governmental and non-governmental facilities.

** Summer school for new students and trainees of gov't facilities.

  

* Suggestion: Trying to find the most near looking distro with already known legacy SW.

* Suggestion: Focusing on newcomers' needs and study their needs before migration.

----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
