{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== ArabNet is the hub for Arab digital professionals and entrepreneurs to connect and learn. ====

Arabnet runs a series of events across the MENA region aimed at growing the web and mobile industry and launching new digital startups. For the third consecutive year, ArabNet is holding the ArabNet Digital Summit in Beirut from March 27-31, gathering over 1,500 high-profile executives and globally-renowned players.  

This year’s summit is going to be even BIGGER! With 2 Developer Days, an all-new Industry day exploring the ways in which web and mobile are transforming traditional industries, and exciting new formats covering the latest in digital. 

The ArabNet summit has a track-record of connecting participating entrepreneurs with funding and media exposure. Again, this year ArabNet is providing the opportunity for top entrepreneurs to pitch their digital ideas and startups.  

Don’t let this opportunity pass you by!
 
'''Don't keep it an Idea, <nowiki>[[http://startupdb.arabnet.me/new/ideathon/|apply now]]</nowiki> to the Ideathon Competition! '''
 
If you’ve got a great idea for a mobile or web company, then the Ideathon is for you! 
 
Apply for a chance to be one of 10 finalists who will present their ideas live at the summit. Each finalist will get 2 minutes in the spotlight to prove their idea is innovative and has strong business potential. The top three pitches will win cash prizes and great ideas will get the attention of investors, incubators, and developers! 
'''Deadline to apply: March 1st, 2012 '''
 
'''Don't stay a Startup, <nowiki>[[http://startupdb.arabnet.me/new/startup/?demo=true|apply now]]</nowiki> to the Startup Demo Competition!''' 
 
If you already have a startup that’s up and running, then the Startup Demo Competition will help you take it to the next level! 
 
Apply here for a chance to be one of 10 finalists invited to present their startups live at the summit. Each finalist will get 5 minutes on stage to showcase their product and prove it’s worthy of the attention of media, incubators, VCs, and investors. All finalists will get the opportunity to promote their startup with a booth at the Startup Demo Exhibition throughout the Forum days and the Community day at the conference. 
'''Deadline to apply: March 1st, 2012'''

 
Note: The startup has to be less than 2 years old, with less than 10 employees and less than $1M in funding. 

 
This is the year to make your digital ambitions happen! '''Apply for the <nowiki>[[http://startupdb.arabnet.me/new/ideathon/|Ideathon]]</nowiki> & <nowiki>[[http://startupdb.arabnet.me/new/startup/?demo=true|Startup Demo]]</nowiki> Competitions.'''

 
<nowiki>[[http://arabnet.me/conference/summit/|Click here for more info about the conference.]]</nowiki>
