{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting Information:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time:
| 17:00
|-
| Location:
| #ubuntu-eg IRC channel
|}

== Agenda Items ==
 /!\ '''''Agenda items are not arranged by importance. Please pick the most important items first.''''' /!\

* Membership
** How does one become a member ? Process + rules
** Membership period.
** Benefits.
** Would it affect the community in a negative way ?

* How can ppl join Council?
** By Membership?
** Voting on Council Candidates, be open for everyone?
** Who should accept persons' proposal to membership? (/!\I feel danger here! --ashams)
* As Release dates are, End of April and End of October: Will we stay here till End of April?

* Nature of FGs: Are "FGs" elite groups of people who already did activities, or is it the way people do activities from?
** If open, what about quality? If Elite, what about Transparency?
* PR: Marketing + Social Media + Spokespersons?
** Should we include Spokespersons inside PR?, Should we kick SP outside PR? is it irrelevant to it?
** Won't merging Marketing with Social media will affect the purpose of the two.

* Job of Spokespersons: Job of SP can conflict with Council job:
** Will SPs take care of council job when there's no one in there?
** What are privileges given to SP members?

* Focus Groups:
* Should we schedule to discuss the Nature and jobs of each FG individually?
** How can persons join FGs?
** Groups leadership.
** Leader responsibility.
** Leadership Term.
** This was proposed by Jonathan '''<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/02/03/%23ubuntu-eg.html#t15:20|last time]]</nowiki>''' but wasn't discussed well(My Mistake): Shouldn't Council monitor focus groups activity? What if one FG goes below normal activity range? For ex., What if Support FG goes severely inactive?

* Eventing:
** Increasing On-line events?
** Regulating ground events, by location and term.
** Finding fund for events.

* Fund:
** Gain better/stable funding?

== Conclusion ==

Meeting started by ashams at 15:15:45 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-eg/2012/ubuntu-eg.2012-02-10-15.15.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* council meeting II
** PR: Marketing + Social Media + Spokespersons?  (ashams, 15:48:54)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2012-02-10   (ashams, 16:13:49)
** Eventing  (mgamal, 16:14:27)
** Finding fund for events.  (ashams, 16:18:33)

Meeting ended at 16:48:47 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* 6m at fg > membership
   For: 3 Against: 0 Abstained: 1

* both meeting on 1st friday?
   For: 1 Against: 2 Abstained: 0

* Marketing + PR (No SP)
   For: 1 Against: 1 Abstained: 2

* 1 physical meeting + 1 irc meeting every month?
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ashams (178)
* mgamal (173)
* thelinuxer (113)
* jonathanhindi (37)
* wazery (14)

=== Full Log ===

 15:15:45 <ashams> #startmeeting

 15:15:45 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Feb 10 15:15:45 2012 UTC.  The chair is ashams. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 15:15:45 <meetingology> 

 15:15:45 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 15:16:00 <ashams> #chair mgamal

 15:16:00 <meetingology> Current chairs: ashams mgamal

 15:16:27 <ashams> #topic council meeting II

 15:16:52 <ashams> now what?

 15:17:15 <mgamal> what's the discussion point now?

 15:17:22 <thelinuxer> proceed with the agenda

 15:17:30 <meetingology> ashams: Error: Can't start another meeting, one is in progress.

 15:17:54 <ashams> #meetingtopic Council Meeting 2

 15:18:12 <jonathanhindi> i have to go 4 15 mins

 15:18:13 <ashams> ok, let's pass

 15:18:20 <mgamal> ok

 15:18:28 <mgamal> what's the first topic on our agenda?

 15:18:33 <ashams> How can ppl join Council?

 15:19:08 <thelinuxer> #endmeeting

 15:19:09 <ashams> we have membership method suggested for joining and voting

 15:19:10 <mgamal> didn't we say elections are held on october and april?

 15:19:27 <ashams> yes, but who can be nominated

 15:19:30 <mgamal> and what's the method?

 15:19:40 <ashams> mgamal, membership

 15:19:57 <mgamal> great

 15:20:07 <mgamal> the question is, how can one be a member?

 15:20:20 <ashams> that's to make a somewhat threshold so one person won't get some of his friends to vote for him

 15:20:49 <mgamal> ok

 15:21:02 <mgamal> now membership will be approved by the councik

 15:21:05 <mgamal> *council

 15:21:10 <mgamal> but who can apply to begin with?

 15:21:15 <ashams> it was suggested that 6months of contribution is enough

 15:21:33 <mgamal> cool

 15:21:45 <mgamal> now this opnes another question

 15:21:48 <mgamal> on FGs

 15:21:57 <ashams> yes

 15:21:57 <mgamal> should the contribution be actually through the FGs?

 15:22:12 <ashams> I guess yes

 15:22:13 <mgamal> if we go far an open model, then people join the FGs as they desire

 15:22:25 <ashams> mgamal, not all fgs

 15:22:29 <mgamal> once they contribute for 6 months, they are eligible for membership

 15:22:41 <mgamal> if we go for a closed model

 15:22:46 <ashams> fgs need to be somehow not fully open

 15:22:51 <ashams> so we keep quality

 15:22:54 <mgamal> then people join FGs if and only if they are laready members

 15:22:58 <mgamal> *already

 15:23:20 <ashams> members of the parent team, right?

 15:24:08 <mgamal> what parent team?

 15:24:20 <ashams> I mean ~ubuntu-eg

 15:24:58 <ashams> pad.lv/~ubuntu-eg

 15:25:20 <thelinuxer> ashams: I am sorry but isn't this a bit confusing ?

 15:25:31 <ashams> yes

 15:26:02 <thelinuxer> i am gonna follow ur train of thought, how can one be a member of ubuntu-eg (the parent team)?

 15:26:20 <mgamal> nice one, thelinuxer

 15:26:22 <mgamal> :)

 15:26:24 <ashams> I mean, mgamal means members of ~ubuntut-eg which is fully open or members of "ubuntu-eg members" which is not fully open

 15:26:39 <thelinuxer> ashams: fine ..

 15:26:43 <ashams> coool

 15:26:48 <thelinuxer> i have a point to say about FGs

 15:26:51 <ashams> it's not a long train though

 15:26:53 <mgamal> no, members of FGs

 15:26:57 <ashams> shooot me

 15:27:08 <ashams> mgamal, that's good

 15:27:18 <thelinuxer> we discussed the option of having core FGs and completely open FGs

 15:27:27 <ashams> yes

 15:27:45 <thelinuxer> core are close and related to the day to day operations and event like graphics or web teams for instance

 15:28:14 <thelinuxer> while other FGs can be useful and everything but not as essential like a dev team (not that dev is not important ..) just an example

 15:28:23 <ashams> so if any one is a member of a core fg, s/he can be nominated, right?

 15:28:34 <mgamal> yes

 15:28:45 <thelinuxer> mgamal: i guess the 6 month rule should be followed

 15:28:56 <mgamal> and members of open fgs can be nominated if they contribute for 6 months :)

 15:29:06 <thelinuxer> joining the FG means he was accepted by the FG leader, we can think he's on probation

 15:29:22 <mgamal> I have a different model in mind

 15:29:28 <ashams> mgamal, go

 15:29:30 <thelinuxer> or he could become a member if he got a recommendation from the FGs members/leaders

 15:29:34 <thelinuxer> mgamal: shoot

 15:29:38 <mgamal> look guys

 15:29:43 <mgamal> I hate too much hirearchy

 15:29:52 <ashams> we can't look, it's irc

 15:30:05 <mgamal> I want to keep it as flat and open as much as possible

 15:30:16 <mgamal> don't want to have too many "elites" in the group and os

 15:30:17 <mgamal> *so

 15:30:25 <mgamal> it's against open source principles

 15:30:28 <mgamal> so anyway

 15:30:33 <mgamal> my idea is that FGs are open

 15:30:34 <ashams> good point

 15:30:43 <ashams> but quality

 15:31:00 <ashams> we can't give ppl a very bad support for ex.

 15:31:01 <mgamal> there are no quality concerns in FGs

 15:31:07 <mgamal> it's all natural selection

 15:31:14 <ashams> what about support fg?

 15:31:17 <mgamal> in other words

 15:31:27 <mgamal> Ubuntu-eg is a collective of all FGs

 15:31:31 <mgamal> anyway

 15:31:38 <mgamal> you contribute to FGs

 15:31:41 <mgamal> for 6 months

 15:31:47 <mgamal> once you do so

 15:31:59 <mgamal> and are approved by FG leader/community

 15:32:05 <mgamal> you can apply for membership

 15:32:19 <ashams> why membership ba2a?

 15:32:20 <wazery> ashams: I think the quality is the responsibility of the leader of the fg

 15:32:30 <ashams> we can make it just get nominated

 15:32:39 <ashams> wazery, good point

 15:32:52 <thelinuxer> mgamal: fine by me .. as a membership process, types of FGs and their responsibilities should be discussed separately

 15:33:01 <jonathanhindi> am back

 15:33:23 <thelinuxer> wb

 15:33:33 <jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: thanks

 15:33:44 <mgamal> cool

 15:33:52 <ashams> mgamal, if we're doing all of this, why we put "membership" in their way

 15:34:05 <mgamal> don't get you ashams

 15:34:16 <thelinuxer> ashams: it's not in their way, it's not blocking them from doing anything ..

 15:34:31 <ashams> I think if one spent 6m in any core fg, he can get nominated for council

 15:34:57 <ashams> why we put them somewhere else while they'll be in their place with their record on that fg

 15:35:38 <ashams> recomendation from fg leader will be received anyway, who would say no?

 15:35:46 <ashams> recommendation*

 15:36:07 <ashams> mgamal, is it clear now?

 15:36:12 <thelinuxer> ashams: a side point but we will need a list of emails for the voting process, so we will need to collect those who has voting rights somewhere ...

 15:36:48 <mgamal> not really

 15:36:49 <ashams> thelinuxer, I'm talking about nomination only for now

 15:37:07 <thelinuxer> mgamal: were u replying to him or me ?

 15:37:20 <mgamal> to ashams

 15:37:28 <thelinuxer> ashams: it's the same for me, any member can nominate himself

 15:37:45 <ashams> any member of what?

 15:38:12 <thelinuxer> any members who passed the membership process with status approved

 15:38:14 <ashams> guys, you keep "member" while we have a lot of memberships in here...

 15:38:30 <mgamal> guys

 15:38:36 <mgamal> let me clarify my idea

 15:38:42 <ashams> plz

 15:38:44 <mgamal> ignore core FGs for a moment

 15:38:47 <jonathanhindi> guys, ana etl5bat, you are discussing the membership of fg ?

 15:38:59 <mgamal> yes

 15:39:11 <mgamal> and this will lead us to ubuntu-eg mebership

 15:39:15 <mgamal> and thus to council

 15:39:25 <mgamal> for open FGs

 15:39:31 <ashams> ah

 15:39:32 <mgamal> anyone joins

 15:39:39 <mgamal> contributes 6 months

 15:39:47 <mgamal> and is eligible to apply for membership

 15:39:50 <mgamal> if their quality is bad

 15:40:03 <mgamal> we simply would filter them out and not vote them for membership

 15:40:19 <mgamal> for core FGs

 15:40:23 <jonathanhindi> mgamal: +!

 15:40:28 <mgamal> we don't need to follow this procedures

 15:40:31 <thelinuxer> mgamal: +1

 15:40:32 <jonathanhindi> mgamal: +1*

 15:40:51 <mgamal> because membership is already closed, and only good members are allowed in

 15:41:09 <mgamal> so being a member of a core FG means you can automatically apply for Ubuntu-eg membership

 15:41:33 <mgamal> Ubuntu-eg membership is to be approved by the council

 15:41:50 <mgamal> that's all

 15:41:53 <mgamal> who agrees?

 15:41:58 <ashams> how can we measure quality then? and who are we in "we simply would filter them out and not vote them for membership"

 15:42:07 <ashams> ?

 15:43:11 <mgamal> the council

 15:43:50 <ashams> +0

 15:43:59 <thelinuxer> are we voting now ?

 15:44:07 <thelinuxer> ashams: can u start a vote ?

 15:44:34 <ashams> #vote 6m at fg > membership

 15:44:34 <meetingology> Please vote on: 6m at fg > membership

 15:44:34 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 15:44:44 <mgamal> +1

 15:44:44 <meetingology> +1 received from mgamal

 15:44:47 <ashams> +0

 15:44:47 <meetingology> +0 received from ashams

 15:44:53 <wazery> +1

 15:44:53 <meetingology> +1 received from wazery

 15:44:55 <jonathanhindi> +1

 15:44:55 <meetingology> +1 received from jonathanhindi

 15:45:01 <thelinuxer> ashams: close vote

 15:45:16 <ashams> #endvote

 15:45:16 <meetingology> Voting ended on: 6m at fg > membership

 15:45:16 <meetingology> Votes for:3 Votes against:0 Abstentions:1

 15:45:16 <meetingology> Motion carried

 15:45:26 <ashams> coool

 15:46:00 <mgamal> now, which are the core FGs and what are open ones?

 15:46:47 <ashams> mgamal, I think all fgs we agreed upon are core?

 15:46:57 <mgamal> really?

 15:47:07 <ashams> I guess so

 15:47:18 <mgamal> can you remind me which were which?

 15:47:24 <jonathanhindi> mgamal: till now we said that we will start with the core fg

 15:47:34 <mgamal> hmmm

 15:47:48 <mgamal> I guess we can discuss this division offline, but let's move on

 15:47:54 <ashams> mgamal, ok, grabbing them

 15:48:36 <ashams> PR: Marketing + Social Media + Spokespersons?

 15:48:42 <ashams> from last meeting

 15:48:54 <ashams> #subtopic PR: Marketing + Social Media + Spokespersons?

 15:49:19 <mgamal> fine by me

 15:49:24 <mgamal> any concerns?

 15:49:32 <ashams> jonathanhindi, objected having sp inside PR

 15:49:37 <ashams> it's irrelevant

 15:49:39 <jonathanhindi> yes

 15:49:53 <ashams> can we kick it out?

 15:50:07 <ashams> vote?

 15:50:15 <jonathanhindi> ashams: can't understand you?

 15:50:47 <ashams> sorry, should we collect votes on this issue?

 15:50:51 <thelinuxer> we would also need a group for inter-teams affairs :D like with other Arabic teams for instance

 15:51:00 <ashams> movin spokespersons outside pr

 15:51:19 <ashams> thelinuxer, that would be community

 15:51:28 <jonathanhindi> ashams: movin spokespersons outiside marketing

 15:51:33 <jonathanhindi> **

 15:51:53 <ashams> outside PR

 15:52:14 <jonathanhindi> ashams: please name it marketing

 15:52:36 <ashams> it's not my name, after all

 15:52:56 <ashams> you suggest to change PR to marketin and kick SP outside it?

 15:53:07 <ashams> marketing*

 15:53:15 <jonathanhindi> yes

 15:53:33 <ashams> what you think guys?

 15:54:03 <ashams> mgamal, current FGs are: A)Support

 15:54:03 <ashams> B)Sponsors

 15:54:03 <ashams> C)PR: Marketing + Social Media + Spokespersons

 15:54:03 <ashams> D)Moderators

 15:54:03 <ashams> E)Website Maintainers

 15:54:03 <thelinuxer> i really don't have a say in this technically they are different

 15:54:03 <ashams> F)Bankers

 15:54:21 <mgamal> thelinuxer

 15:54:25 <mgamal> please weigh in

 15:54:45 <thelinuxer> weigh in what ?

 15:55:29 <mgamal> say why you think they're different

 15:55:43 <jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: technically they are different social media is a part of marketing but pr is a different field

 15:56:00 <thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: yes exactly what i mean

 15:56:09 <mgamal> cool

 15:56:17 <thelinuxer> for instance the PR should be the one dealing with ArabNet

 15:56:19 <mgamal> we should make them separate then

 15:56:31 <jonathanhindi> bezabt :D

 15:56:36 <thelinuxer> while the marketing team should be trying to increase our followers with any means necessary

 15:56:50 <jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: 3lik nour :)

 15:57:14 <ashams> so, Marketing, PR and SP....

 15:57:33 <mgamal> I agree to this

 15:57:58 <ashams> any objection before collecting vottes?

 15:58:11 <mgamal> no

 15:58:17 <jonathanhindi> ashams: i think sp should be under the pr because it is very related but 3ashan el remote areas we should make it different

 15:58:30 <thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: i disagree ...

 15:58:34 <jonathanhindi> i am just confusing my self.

 15:58:55 <thelinuxer> it depends on what a spokes person means

 15:59:14 <thelinuxer> is he someone who can represent the team in events by giving lectures ?

 15:59:25 <thelinuxer> or is he someone who would get us sponsorship deals ?

 15:59:52 <ashams> thelinuxer, a representative while no council members in area

 16:00:03 <thelinuxer> representation for what ?

 16:00:04 <ashams> that simple

 16:00:16 <ashams> representative of the team

 16:00:52 <thelinuxer> any approved members should be a representative of the team in general

 16:01:25 <ashams> good point

 16:01:28 <thelinuxer> if they are a team they should have specific responsibilities

 16:01:42 <jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: yes i am with you in this point, Ubuntu-eg member is ubuntu-eg ambassador anywhere any time

 16:03:13 <thelinuxer> i guess we don't really have a definition for SP team, so we should cancel it all together ..

 16:03:29 <ashams> cool, let's do it for now

 16:03:40 <jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: +1 to cancel the sp team

 16:04:05 <ashams> #vote Marketing + PR (No SP)

 16:04:05 <meetingology> Please vote on: Marketing + PR (No SP)

 16:04:05 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:04:16 <jonathanhindi> but any Ubuntu-Eg Approved member is an Ubuntu-Eg ambassador

 16:04:27 <jonathanhindi> +1

 16:04:27 <meetingology> +1 received from jonathanhindi

 16:04:31 <wazery> +0

 16:04:31 <meetingology> +0 received from wazery

 16:04:46 <thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: we can write this in the membership page ...

 16:05:02 <mgamal> +0

 16:05:02 <meetingology> +0 received from mgamal

 16:05:13 <ashams> heh

 16:05:17 <ashams> -1

 16:05:17 <meetingology> -1 received from ashams

 16:05:27 <ashams> #endvote

 16:05:27 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Marketing + PR (No SP)

 16:05:27 <meetingology> Votes for:1 Votes against:1 Abstentions:2

 16:05:27 <meetingology> Deadlock, casting vote may be used

 16:05:29 <thelinuxer> i will be the tie breaking, cool ?

 16:05:40 <mgamal> agree

 16:05:46 <jonathanhindi> hehe :)

 16:06:15 <ashams> now what?

 16:06:23 <thelinuxer> ok np let the record show my big +1 :D

 16:06:35 <jonathanhindi> niah :_

 16:06:59 <thelinuxer> ashams: next item in the agenda ...

 16:07:03 <thelinuxer> on*

 16:07:19 <ashams> Guys, plz say why you gave +0 and what are your suggestions?

 16:08:03 <ashams> thelinuxer, "on" istead of "in", comment:  ya wad ya daqeeeq...

 16:08:17 <thelinuxer> :)

 16:08:38 <ashams> guys we didn't settle to anything thing in this regard so far.....

 16:08:45 <thelinuxer> no we did

 16:08:49 <ashams> what?

 16:08:52 <thelinuxer> if i would be the tie breaking vote

 16:09:03 <wazery> I have no suggestions about the sp :), I leave it for you guys

 16:09:12 <thelinuxer> i voted +1

 16:09:26 <ashams> thelinuxer, that would be 2/5

 16:09:31 <ashams> i gave -1

 16:09:42 <thelinuxer> so the whole score is +1

 16:09:55 <mgamal> same as wazery

 16:10:25 <thelinuxer> ashams: i don't really understand what r voting against ? what other structure you would like ?

 16:10:34 <thelinuxer> would you* :P

 16:11:10 <ashams> how would teams with no experienced persons make their way through

 16:11:19 <ashams> they will need a lnamed leader

 16:11:28 <ashams> to move the wheel

 16:11:35 <ashams> named*

 16:11:35 <thelinuxer> i think this unrelated to the structure itself ...

 16:11:39 <mgamal> ashams: just like we did with the council

 16:11:44 <thelinuxer> this is*

 16:11:53 <mgamal> current active members can be assigned to lead FGs

 16:12:07 <ashams> ok

 16:12:18 <mgamal> so

 16:12:23 <ashams> let's pass?

 16:12:24 <mgamal> next item on the agenda?

 16:12:56 <thelinuxer> so this structure is accepted, right ?

 16:13:07 <ashams> yes, to me

 16:13:12 <mgamal> same here

 16:13:16 <thelinuxer> cool

 16:13:20 <thelinuxer> proceed ..

 16:13:25 <mgamal> Marketing + PR with no SP team, I am getting this right?

 16:13:31 <thelinuxer> yes

 16:13:44 <ashams> mgamal, would you look for the next item yourself, sorry I'm confused

 16:13:49 <ashams> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2012-02-10

 16:14:27 <mgamal> #subtopic Eventing

 16:15:15 <ashams> how can we increase online events? or should we do aslan?

 16:15:15 <mgamal> ping!

 16:15:23 <ashams> pong :-)

 16:15:24 <mgamal> was just going to ask

 16:15:31 <mgamal> what are online events?

 16:15:44 <mgamal> I guess we have things like global jams

 16:16:02 <thelinuxer> online events like ubuntu user week

 16:16:04 <mgamal> but I can't really think of any more online events on the LoCo leevel

 16:16:05 <thelinuxer> and ubuntu developer week

 16:16:10 <mgamal> yes

 16:16:16 <thelinuxer> we can have in the Arabic teams level ..

 16:16:22 <mgamal> but the LoCo has nothing to do with these

 16:16:24 <thelinuxer> events like this in Arabic language

 16:16:25 <ashams> that's it, in arabic

 16:16:26 <mgamal> except probably promoting them

 16:16:42 <mgamal> we can do dour own events definitely

 16:16:55 <mgamal> but this is something that can be taken in its time

 16:17:07 <mgamal> I don't see a need for much discussion here

 16:17:22 <ashams> postpone it?

 16:17:30 <thelinuxer> mgamal: sure i think it can be postponed ..

 16:17:49 <ashams> pass?

 16:17:55 <thelinuxer> +1

 16:18:00 <mgamal> no+!

 16:18:03 <mgamal> +1

 16:18:05 <mgamal> sorry

 16:18:14 <ashams> ok

 16:18:33 <ashams> #subtopic Finding fund for events.

 16:18:43 <ashams> it doesn't work :-(

 16:18:54 <mgamal> I don't have much to weigh in here

 16:19:04 <ashams> we have no fund for anything

 16:19:04 <mgamal> we probably needed Anas to tell us about it

 16:19:17 <mgamal> we will need to make Funds

 16:19:28 <ashams> our work on the new structure is almost useless

 16:19:36 <ashams> unless we make events

 16:19:38 <mgamal> why?

 16:19:43 <ashams> which need more money

 16:19:44 <mgamal> events need funds

 16:19:47 <mgamal> so

 16:19:52 <mgamal> well

 16:19:55 <ashams> so, we need funds

 16:19:59 <jonathanhindi> self funded

 16:20:06 <mgamal> IMO we can fund ourselves in two ways

 16:20:10 <jonathanhindi> minimum contribution

 16:20:10 <mgamal> 1- Self-funding

 16:20:14 <mgamal> 2- By getting sponsors

 16:20:33 <jonathanhindi> mgamal: i think doing the two together is a good idea

 16:20:44 <thelinuxer> i think funding is a tricky issue, legaly i mean

 16:20:53 <mgamal> jonathanhindi: I never said the two are mutually exclusive

 16:21:00 <thelinuxer> we don't want to be accused of getting foreign funds :D

 16:21:01 <jonathanhindi> we already discussed the min-contribution before in a public meeting

 16:21:23 <mgamal> thelinuxer: making a gam3eyya isn't illegal I think :)

 16:21:30 <thelinuxer> mgamal: sure

 16:21:34 <mgamal> in other words

 16:21:47 <mgamal> members can pay voluntary monthly payments

 16:21:56 <mgamal> they will be kept to fund team activites

 16:21:58 <ashams> We almost can't receive funds from any organizations, simply coz they pay i to get subtracted from taxees

 16:22:12 <ashams> it*

 16:22:20 <jonathanhindi> so min-contribution 15 L.E from every approved member

 16:22:24 <ashams> taxes, even

 16:22:34 <thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: mgamal back to the collecting issue ..

 16:22:52 <thelinuxer> we want to make more meetings online

 16:22:59 <mgamal> definitely

 16:23:08 <thelinuxer> how would we collect the contribution every month?

 16:23:09 <ashams> ok, what about biannually?

 16:23:21 <mgamal> well

 16:23:29 <mgamal> there was one bulletpoint before funding

 16:23:35 <mgamal> I have no idea why ashams skipped it?

 16:23:41 <jonathanhindi> biannually for students it is nearl imposible

 16:23:44 <mgamal> Regulating ground events, by location and term.

 16:23:46 <jonathanhindi> imposible

 16:23:54 <mgamal> we need to say first how the group meets

 16:24:01 <mgamal> how frequently

 16:24:04 <thelinuxer> mgamal: good point

 16:24:12 <ashams> mgamal, yes I skipped it

 16:24:16 <mgamal> monthly meeting?

 16:24:19 <wazery> Guys aside from our topic, we should also discuss making an event before the next release, because I have a lot of ready CDs and stickers

 16:24:34 <ashams> ok

 16:24:38 <mgamal> wazery, let's discuss this later

 16:24:39 <thelinuxer> lets focus on one point now

 16:24:42 <mgamal> in Sakia :)

 16:24:49 <mgamal> so anyway

 16:24:58 <thelinuxer> wazery: bring CDs with you please ...

 16:25:01 <mgamal> what's your opinion that the group makes a monthly meeting?

 16:25:05 <wazery> thelinuxer: ok

 16:25:14 <ashams> mgamal, +1

 16:25:17 <thelinuxer> u mean physical meeting ?

 16:25:27 <mgamal> should be attended by council members and FG leaders

 16:25:30 <mgamal> yes

 16:25:35 <mgamal> I mean a physical meeting

 16:25:53 <mgamal> we can just discuss, have fun, be geeks, and most importantly, collect funds :)

 16:25:53 <thelinuxer> hmm ..

 16:26:19 <thelinuxer> didn't we try this over and over again ?

 16:26:29 <mgamal> we never set it in stone :)

 16:26:37 <thelinuxer> we always have problems committing to meetings every X

 16:26:37 <wazery> mgamal: +1

 16:26:44 <ashams> yes, it was never regualted

 16:26:54 <ashams> what about 3rd friday of each month

 16:26:59 <ashams> every*

 16:27:10 <mgamal> what about the 1st friday of every month

 16:27:17 <mgamal> that's easier to remember :)

 16:27:23 <ashams> mgamal, +1 even

 16:27:31 <thelinuxer> ashams: mgamal wazery please guys tell me how is this different from what we did before ?

 16:27:37 <thelinuxer> how is this regulating it ?

 16:27:42 <jonathanhindi> +1

 16:27:48 <mgamal> we never had a regulation to start with

 16:27:49 <mgamal> plus

 16:28:02 <mgamal> attendance should be mandatory for council members and group leaders

 16:28:03 <ashams> thelinuxer, dude, we need to make it in a way or another

 16:28:05 <thelinuxer> ok lets try this once more

 16:28:09 <ashams> it happens everywhere

 16:28:21 <thelinuxer> that's what i am saying tell me the way ..

 16:28:30 <thelinuxer> ok i agree too

 16:28:56 <mgamal> thelinuxer: now we have set dates for meetings, all we need is to discuss meeting places on the ML before we meet

 16:29:02 <mgamal> so

 16:29:05 <mgamal> let's take a vote?

 16:29:19 <thelinuxer> ok i guess we will need 1 online council meeting + 1 phsyical every month , right ?

 16:29:50 <ashams> #vote 1 physical meeting + 1 irc meeting every month?

 16:29:50 <meetingology> Please vote on: 1 physical meeting + 1 irc meeting every month?

 16:29:50 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:30:08 <ashams> +1

 16:30:08 <meetingology> +1 received from ashams

 16:30:09 <jonathanhindi> +1

 16:30:09 <meetingology> +1 received from jonathanhindi

 16:30:11 <wazery> +1

 16:30:11 <meetingology> +1 received from wazery

 16:30:37 <jonathanhindi> Guys, I have to go now

 16:30:41 <jonathanhindi> I am sorry

 16:30:48 <jonathanhindi> bye

 16:30:50 <mgamal> +1

 16:30:50 <meetingology> +1 received from mgamal

 16:30:52 <ashams> ok, bye

 16:31:01 <ashams> #endvote

 16:31:01 <meetingology> Voting ended on: 1 physical meeting + 1 irc meeting every month?

 16:31:01 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 16:31:01 <meetingology> Motion carried

 16:31:06 <wazery> bye jonathanhindi

 16:31:18 <mgamal> we didn't say when btw? :)

 16:31:30 <thelinuxer> 1st and 3rd fridays ?

 16:31:41 <mgamal> 1st friday every month for physical, + 3rd friday for IRC?

 16:31:48 <wazery> 1st for both

 16:32:11 <ashams> mgamal, can it be 1st for irc and 3rd for physical?

 16:32:11 <thelinuxer> wazery: it's a good idea actually ...

 16:32:33 <thelinuxer> tiring for the council but good :

 16:32:33 <thelinuxer> :D

 16:32:50 <mgamal> why ashams ?

 16:32:51 <ashams> so, we pre-discuss things on irc then we meet to finish it

 16:33:15 <mgamal> we still can do that if it's the other way round? :)

 16:33:27 <ashams> +1

 16:34:10 <thelinuxer> doesn't really matter pic one guys, bas fe3lan I like wazery's suggestion

 16:35:06 <ashams> thelinuxer, why?

 16:35:26 <thelinuxer> because if i am in the council I would like to finish the meetings in only one day

 16:35:34 <thelinuxer> like today for instance we are meeting

 16:35:36 <wazery> guys, I need to go

 16:35:40 <thelinuxer> then we have a communitty outing

 16:35:52 <ashams> thelinuxer, cool

 16:36:05 <ashams> I +1 it

 16:36:11 <thelinuxer> wazery: vote for this then go

 16:36:12 <ashams> wazery, ok, bye dude

 16:36:19 <wazery> thelinuxer: ok

 16:36:21 <thelinuxer> ashams: start the vote

 16:36:23 <mgamal> vote what exactly?

 16:36:36 <ashams> #vote both meeting on 1st friday?

 16:36:36 <meetingology> Please vote on: both meeting on 1st friday?

 16:36:36 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 16:36:44 <wazery> +1

 16:36:44 <meetingology> +1 received from wazery

 16:37:01 <thelinuxer> mgamal: physical and IRC in the same day

 16:37:36 <wazery> meet you in sakia iaA

 16:37:42 <thelinuxer> wazery: ok bye

 16:37:49 <mgamal> -1

 16:37:49 <meetingology> -1 received from mgamal

 16:37:51 <ashams> bye man :D

 16:38:03 <ashams> haha

 16:38:06 <mgamal> please vote guys

 16:38:10 <ashams> mgamal, why?

 16:38:18 <thelinuxer> ashams: finish the vote!

 16:38:25 <ashams> mgamal, why you -1'd ?

 16:38:44 <mgamal> probably won't have much time for the meetings this way

 16:38:48 <ashams> thelinuxer, one sec, let's lestin to mgamal 's logic

 16:39:06 <mgamal> as you can see wazery and jon already left because they probably need that time to reach Sakia :)

 16:39:20 <mgamal> so it confines the time for the IRC meeting

 16:39:33 <ashams> I agree with this

 16:39:36 <ashams> -1

 16:39:36 <meetingology> -1 received from ashams

 16:39:45 <ashams> #endvote

 16:39:45 <meetingology> Voting ended on: both meeting on 1st friday?

 16:39:45 <meetingology> Votes for:1 Votes against:2 Abstentions:0

 16:39:45 <meetingology> Motion denied

 16:39:58 <thelinuxer> that's decided too

 16:40:06 <ashams> so 1st and 3rd fridays?

 16:40:12 <thelinuxer> yes

 16:40:18 <thelinuxer> can we list some action items ?

 16:40:18 <mgamal> 1st friday physical, 3rd IRC

 16:40:39 <ashams> mgamal, this month is a special case?

 16:40:46 <mgamal> yes

 16:40:50 <ashams> ok

 16:40:54 <ashams> +1

 16:40:55 <thelinuxer> starting march isA

 16:40:56 <ashams> thelinuxer, ?

 16:41:05 <ashams> ok

 16:41:11 <thelinuxer> action items ..

 16:41:21 <thelinuxer> i guess we all agreed upon the core FGs

 16:41:33 <thelinuxer> i will create these core FGs and make the council the owner

 16:41:35 <ashams> don't know

 16:41:47 <ashams> ok

 16:41:50 <thelinuxer> what do u mean don't know ?

 16:42:01 <mgamal> we still haven't completely agreed about which ones will be core ans which will be open

 16:42:05 <mgamal> we'll discuss this when we meet

 16:42:07 <ashams> have we agreed on marketing + PR?

 16:42:15 <thelinuxer> yes

 16:42:21 <ashams> ok

 16:42:34 <thelinuxer> and i think graphics(not sure if we discussed this)

 16:42:53 <ashams> I'm not comfortable with fully open FGs

 16:43:00 <ashams> Open teams never helped

 16:43:03 <thelinuxer> and i think we should start asking people to join these teams ASAP

 16:43:14 <thelinuxer> ashams: we said we will have both

 16:43:16 <ashams> you'll get teams filled with ppl but noone  do nothing

 16:43:46 <ashams> it won't help this way

 16:44:01 <mgamal> yes, but this will create a closed hierarchy in the community

 16:44:03 <ashams> we need some regulation to let ppl in

 16:44:07 <mgamal> no

 16:44:09 <mgamal> we don't

 16:44:19 <ashams> mgamal, it's not closed, let's make a procedure

 16:44:31 <mgamal> we can discuss this offline

 16:44:46 <ashams> we can't invite ppl without discussing this

 16:44:49 <thelinuxer> ok we can continue this discussion on the mailing list too ..

 16:44:56 <mgamal> we have to discuss this tonight

 16:45:01 <mgamal> in the outing

 16:45:02 <mgamal> okay?

 16:45:08 <ashams> mgamal, I won't come :(

 16:45:17 <mgamal> mailing list then

 16:45:21 <ashams> ok

 16:45:26 <mgamal> start a thread and we would discuss

 16:45:32 <ashams> ok

 16:45:44 <thelinuxer> cool

 16:45:56 <thelinuxer> here is what i am worried about ..

 16:46:25 <thelinuxer> we only have 2 month, and the process should be running before the next elections

 16:46:45 <ashams> by "Regulating ground events, by location and term" I meant making events like sessions or lectures or so, not just meetings

 16:46:47 <thelinuxer> so we need to finalize the parts related to the membership/FGs ASAP

 16:47:00 <ashams> thelinuxer, yep

 16:48:00 <thelinuxer> ok i think this meeting is adjourned

 16:48:09 <thelinuxer> we can continue on the mailing list

 16:48:10 <ashams> end?

 16:48:13 <ashams> ok

 16:48:22 <ashams> mgamal, ?

 16:48:39 <mgamal> end

 16:48:47 <ashams> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)

----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
