{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting will be on IRC: #Ubuntu-eg, Friday 25th of June 2010 @ 2:30 PM

Shared document: <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AauVUEKmQFwbZGQ3cnFoOGdfMzdjcTl0Yzhnag&hl=en|Draft doc]]</nowiki>

== Agenda Items ==
* Opening session
* CD remastering.
* Printed materials
* Registration and Feedback forms.
* Course Content for Faculty on Engineering course

== Present ==

* thelinuxer
* mgamal
* Sensiva
* mahmoud

=== Late arrivals ===

* jonathanhindi
* wazery
* bahaa2008

== Conclusion ==

* Mohamed Gamal(mgamal) will give the opening session
* Mohamed Saudi(Sensiva) will remaster the CD. Mahmoud Mohamed will check if the Faculty of Computer Science will burn the CDs for us for reduced price.
* Publicity papers talking about software freedom and Ubuntu will be printed in both Arabic and English.
* Since there is not internet access in the labs, the registration and feedback form will printed. CECE guys will fill the online versions of the forms for the sake digitizing them and using the Google forms analysis power.
* Mohamed Saudi(Sesiva) will lead the content preparation part for the course. Everyone responsible for a part in the content should report to Sensiva directly or on the mailing list.
* Content preparation should finish by Monday 28th of June.

IRC logs are available <nowiki>[[EgyptTeam-Meetings-IRCLogs-2010-06-25]]</nowiki>
