{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Embedded Linux Session 4 ==
=== Points covered: ===
1. Compiling and booting Linux Kernel configuration.
  i. Kernel configuration and build system.
  i. Kernel configuration.
  i. Kernel or module?
  i. Kernel option types.
  i. Kernel options dependencies.
  i. make xconfig.
  i. kernel configuration options.
  i. Corresponding .config file excerpt.
  i. make gconfig.
  i. make menuconfig.
  i. make oldconfig.
  i. make allnoconfig.
  i. Undoing configuration changes.
  i. Configuration per architecture.
  i. Overview of kernel options.
1. Compiling and installing the kernel for the host system.
  i. Kernel compilation.
  i. Kernel installation.
  i. Module installation.
  i. Kernel clean up targets.
1. Compiling and booting linux: Cross-compiling the kernel.
  i. Cross-compiling the kernel.
  i. Specifying cross-compilation.
  i. Predefined configuration files.
  i. Configuring the kernel.
  i. Building and installing the kernel.
  i. Kernel command line.
1. Using kernel modules.
  i. Advantages of modules.
  i. Module dependencies.
  i. Kernel log.
  i. Module utilities.
  i. Understanding module loading issues.
  i. Passing parameters to modules.
=== Present: ===
* Mohamed Nour El-Din.
* Islam Hassan.
=== Assignments: ===
* Cross-compile the kernel.
=== See also: ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-07-08-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 1: 2011-07-08-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-07-23-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 2: 2011-07-23-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-07-30-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 3: 2011-07-30-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-08-20-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 5: 2011-08-20-EMbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
