{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Describe EgyptTeam/Events/2010-07-24-CUFE-Linux-Workshop here.

==== CUFE Linux course ====

 As a part of our Social Responsibilities, Ubuntu-EG team is currently preparing for a course to raise the awareness of  Cairo University Faculty of Engineering (CUFE) students about open source and software freedom. The course, walks its participants through many essential points to make the "Free Software Conversion" as smooth and easy as possible. However, Ubuntu is the base of this converstion, points discussed in this course include :

'''Course Content'''

  {*} GUI walk through (Gnome basically with some examples of other DEs)
  
  {*} program alternatives.

  {*} Linux system structure (i.e. what does /home, /proc, etc. do?!)

  {*} File permissions.

  {*} CLI basics (cd, ls, chown, ... etc.)

  {*} SSH

  {*} programing under Linux

  {*} installing LAMP and basics on using it.

'''Open Day''' open for everyone to attend--even without attending the course itself
  
  {*} FLOSS philosophy

  {*} Howto get help from the community (report bugs, ask for support ....)

  {*} Establishing your online reputation!
  
Also one notable point about this course is that it is delivered free-of-charge to remove any boundaries that could keep students from starting their journey with software freedom.

'''people who made this course possible'''
  
** Ahmed Abd Allah

** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~m-fawzy|Mahmoud Fawzy]]</nowiki>

** Mahmoud Ibrahim

** <nowiki>[[http://mohamedsherief.blogspot.com/|Mohamed sherief]]</nowiki>
