{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting will be in Azhar park

== Agenda Items ==

* Introductions, team structure and new members.

* Celebration for Islam Alwazery.

* Mansoura micro team.

* Discuss event in Mansoura with Eng. Haitham Ghareeb.

* --(Tanateesh tech.)--

* The state of our website, and the kind of contributions we need.

* --(Media campaign.)--

* Free talk.

== Present ==
* Ahmed Toulan.

* Haitham Ghareeb.

* Mahmoud Tantawy.

* Ahmed Shams.

* Tarek Shams.

* Osama Mongy.

* Abdallah Hodeib.

* Islam Alwazery.

* Jonathan Hindi.

* Islam Hassan.

* Hala Alwazery.

* Samar Ali.

* Anas Emad.

* Abdelrahman Elsemary.

* Ahmed Mamdouh.

== Conclusion ==

* We agreed on basic collaboration/partnership with Nozom NGO(an NGO based in Mansoura specialized in technology).

* A community called "90 degrees" will be our representation group at Mansoura University. Samar Ali is one of the founders of this group.

* Website is almost finished but there are some problems with the aggregation module.

* Negotiate closing "Ubuntu Hour(Egypt)" group on facebook to unify our efforts.

* Donate our articles to magazines like Arabhardware, Mahawees and Alam rakamy.

* Toaster BFCI event .Some showed initial interest to travel to Banha for the sake of this event. They are Anas Emad, Jonathan Hindi, Islam Alwazery, Ahmed Shams, Abdelrahman El semary, Abdallah Hodeib, Jonathan Hindi, Islam Hassan and Ahmed Toulan.

* We explored the upportunity to give Ubuntu courses for kids at Manaret Nadi Elshams, but the team considerd this risky because of the state of the Unity interface.
