{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''''' {*} That government is best which governs least {*} '''''
<<BR>>
=== Introduction ===

Egypt LoCo Team becomes much bigger each day and spreads in wide space across the country. Council is there to appear on some relatively rare situations when speed of making decision is much important than quality of making it.

=== Council Responsibilities ===

 {*} Approve Community process changes.
 
 {*} Membership approval.
** Approve Person's Membership. 
** Approve Person's nomination for specific jobs.
** Approve Spokespersons.

 {*} Conflict resolution.
** Council holds the right to make final decisions regarding conflicts.
** Council holds the right to mute conversation during conflicts.

 {*} Reserve Project values.
** Reserving Freedom.
** Reserving Transparency.
** Reserving team's good exposure to public.

<<BR>>
=== Council Elections ===
 {*} Council members get elected every release cycle, starting from 1 month after release and lasts for a week. After that week, new council members should be in place.

 {*} Number of council members will be decided after first elections, and will be frozen till there's a need to increase. (Generally >3 and <8).

 {*} '''''All''''' LoCo team members are candidates for every cycle.

 {*} Elections held on Team's LP Profile Polls.

 {*} If a member stepped down, his/her position becomes vacant and Council '''''must call for and execute''''' elections to fill it again.

<<BR>>
=== Council Non-responsibilities ===

<<BR>>
