{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


 How would you like to join us?
 In Ubuntu-EG we have many fields to work on, all of them are their to help spread the word across the country, this how the whole team collaborates to generate a High-level Activism and makes our mission much easier to accomplish and a lot faster.
 All jobs listed are completely voluntarily, for the sake of spreading Software freedom and preserving better life for all of us.

 {*} As a User: Your existence in the community helps a lot and you are always invited to join events.
  You may also stay intouch with, to stay updated with latest info about Ubuntu itself, the Community or about that lovely peice of it, Ubuntu-EG.

 {*} As an Activist: If you have some free time and you want to share it with the rest of the team while advocatin the philosophy of Open Source, come and jump into the fun:

** '''Online Activist(ONLY)''': You may like to advocate Open Source online or to work inside the team by getting in charge of one of team's jobs, like:

** Online Support[ML, IRC, Forums, FB].(Team:SupportSquad)

** Draw graphics for team need.(Team:GraphiX-Masters)

** Website Maintenance.(Team:GateKeepers)

** 

** '''Offline Activist(ONLY!)''':
** Event Organization.(Team:EventOrganizers)

** Logistic support.

** Attending Events.(Team:Ubuntu-EG)

** 

** '''Both?'''
** Are you enthusiastic that much?, you can help with of the above jobs, either online or offline when, where and how you want. Just show up on the ML and say that you want to help someway.
