{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Agenda Items ==
 '''Please add all items you want to discuss.'''

 {*} Oneiric release Party.

 {*} Localizing Some Global Ubuntu Events/activities.

 {*} Coordination between Arabic teams.

 {*} Team process documentation and communication points.

 {*} S3geeks.

 {*} Reformat Approval application in 5 days.

== Present ==

* Ahmed Toulan.
* Islam Alwazery.
* Omar Mohsen.
* Anas Emad.
* Islam Hassan.
* Mohamed Yosry.
* Ahmed Refaat.
* Mahmoud Tantawy.
* Mohamed Gamal.
* Ahmed Tohamy.
* Ahmed Shams

== Conclusion ==

** Oneiric Release Party - Cairo University:
** Expected number of attendees 300.
** iShare team is doing negotiations to book a hall for the event.
** eventbrite will be used for the registration process. Ticket will be used to distribute prizes.
*** Initiate talks with Master Linux to provide discounts to Linux courses as prizes. Anas + Mohamed Ibrahim.
** A booth will be created in Cairo university to publicize the event.
** iShare will be responsible to burn the CDs.
** iShare will be responsible for all publicity inside Cairo University.
** Ask AMahdy about logistics for the coffee break.
** Islam Wazery will create a simple avdert. for the event.
** Send sessions list to iShare.
** Need cameras to record sessions.
** Possibly live stream during the event?
** Contact sister communities. Ahmed Tohamy.
** Contact media to cover the event. Ahmed Tohamy.
** Event banners and logos. Wazery will be responsible for branding.
  
** Localizing Some Global Ubuntu Events/activities.
** Coordinate for sessions. Prepate scripts ...etc. Start a thread on the mailing list.
** We can start by using already available sessions in Ubuntu global events.

** Coordination between Arabic teams:
** Reviving Ubuntu-arabic team. Toulan + Shams + Mohsen.

** Team process documentation and communication points: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AhmedShams/Sandbox/Ubuntu-EG%20Guidlines|Prototype]]</nowiki>
** This needs to be detailed documentation of every job we have in the team.
** Also, detailed description of what we need to prepare for events.
** Marketing needs to involved in this.
** Policies to be applied in every situation to save team time.
** Define communication points with other teams. (Community partner policy)
** Define stable events dates.

** S3geeks. A technology community in Upper Egypt.
** We can create small training event for S3geeks organizers.
** Provide them with SimplyUbuntu book + other materials.

** Reformat Approval application in 5 days. Wazery
** Further points will be discussed in a meeting.
----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
