{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting will be on IRC: #Ubuntu-eg, Wednesday 19th 2010 @ 7:30pm

== Agenda Items ==
The following agendas were proposed for this meeting:
* Ubuntu-EG portal.
*** Video portal.
*** Blogs.
* Multi-language wiki pages.
* Participating in ITShow on The Nile Cultural Channel.
* Linux summer training for Engineering students @ Cairo University.
* Create an Arabic guide to gaming on Ubuntu.

== Present ==
The following were present during this meeting:
* HardDisk
* Extend
* jonathanhindi
* thelinuxer
* waelmagdy

late arrivals

* Anas
* Maggie_
* asmaamostafa
* Pronco
* Sensiva 
* The-NightPhoenix

 
== Proceedings ==
* ubuntueg.wordpress.com registered (will decide what to do with it later)
* ubuntueg Youtube channel registered (will decide what to do with it later)

== Conclusion ==
Discussions and voting were conducted concerning the topics above, except for the last topic it has been postponed as the person behind the idea was not available.

* Discussed idea for central Portal, and all agreed that we need another meeting to discuss the technical part of this project.
* The Arabic language will be the primary language on the wiki page.
* Linux summer training for Engineering students @ Cairo University. It's been agreed that this should be forwarded to the mailing and check who wants to         participate.
* Materials needed for the ITShow, and it's been agreed that the whole team needs to discuss this issue via the mailing list as well.

Final votes will be counted as we collect the remaining candidate decisions via the mailing list.

IRC logs are available <nowiki>[[EgyptTeam-Meetings-IRCLogs-2010-19-05]]</nowiki>
