{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== DRAFT ==

=== Mailinglist Guidelines: ===

<<BR>>
 {*} A. General Guidelines:
* Please follow the CoC/LCoC & Email and Social Etiquette during conducting with other members on this mailing list.

* Volunteer-Nature Community: Ubuntu Egypt LoCo Community is following the "By-Task" Volunteering Perspective, so no one has any obligation in some task, almost, sharing your opinions online is more than enough.

<<BR>>
 {*} B. Mailing List Usage:
* Please respond in the same language of the message you're replying on. Some members can not describe their complicated thoughts in a non-native language(English) and thus they use their native(Arabic).

* Please make sure to limit your responses to the message's subject. Talking in other matters on the same message will make the conversation go in another direction, will confuse other members and will significantly decrease the conversation's quality of results.

* Please do NOT advertise anything on this mailing list.
* Mailing list type is community mailing list(TBD: NOT News mailing list?).

<<BR>>
 {*} C. Signature:
* If you add some Images, Links, Icons or other attracting patterns, some members can find it *Offensive*, you don't need to advertise yourself or your business on your email signature, remember when somebody needs to have business with you, your email will be more than enough as a communication method. Your only first Name will do the whole job.
