{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the 2010-05-09 Meeting ==

<pre>
<HardDisk> Pronco you there?
* ** Cyb0rg is now known as Guest20646
<HardDisk> sup guys
<pfui> you're presuming that somebody's awake and paying attention to irc...
<pfui> yesterday's event was pretty good btw
<thelinuxer> I am awake
<thelinuxer> pfui: ur right, i enjoyed it too :)
<HardDisk> btw..Im really bad with names..I forgot the girl that was with us, I want the photos from her so I can select what to post
<HardDisk> I already have my photos ready, and some turned out really nice
<pfui> so.. when's the next event?
<pfui> hopefully sometime before the next release
<HardDisk> Well we need to discuss it first.
<HardDisk> Cause I want it to be a bit more fun.
<HardDisk> as in, a few competitions
<HardDisk> get people to win tshirts and prizes etc.
<HardDisk> that's what im going to talk about with ahmed from fixitsolutions about sponsorship
<HardDisk> First I want to go to their location and check out their premises
<HardDisk> He talked a lot with me yesterday, and to be honest I've learned being in Egypt not to listen to a lot of chatter, so I will go and see whether they are legit and whether they are really becoming canonical partners or not.
<pfui> lol
<pfui> would the canonical badge of approval matter for anything?
<pfui> save for marketing efforts?
<HardDisk> I didn't notice that.
<HardDisk> In any case, I have a lot of points to discuss
<HardDisk> oh btw, thelinuxer, I also want to discuss about the financial issues when you guys make these events
<HardDisk> as in for example the tshirts, did you pay for it all by yourself, or was it shared.
<HardDisk> if we're going to work as a team, I think at least I need to know how exactly is the effort being shared around.
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: yes i paid for the T-Shirts
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: and the CD stickers
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: but the rest was shared
<HardDisk> hmmm
<HardDisk> ok, it's not fair for one person to handle expenses for such items.
<HardDisk> you need to be reimbursed by splitting up these expenses
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: It's ok, i wanted to give some gifts to our team members
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: akeed
<thelinuxer> in the future isA
<HardDisk> btw, just wanted to say it was nice to meet all of you.
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: I am glad u came :)
<HardDisk> heheeh yea I had my hands full also :D
<thelinuxer> btw sponsorship is not that gr8 in Egypt
<HardDisk> next time you guys have a meeting I'll try to come also, cause I have a few issues I want to bring up in the agendas
<thelinuxer> sure
<HardDisk> dont worry about the sponsorship, I can handle that.
<thelinuxer> ya reeeeeeet
<HardDisk> I used to work as head technical support for CompuMe, and I still have some contacts there..ya3ni law manfi3sh ma3 one company, fee another etc.
<HardDisk> the next meeting, I guess i'll want to at least get a better understanding of the team
<thelinuxer> yes akeed feeh, bas it will take a lot of work to find this company
<thelinuxer> what do u to understand about the team :D >
<thelinuxer> ?
<HardDisk> Well i understood that the people that gave the sessions did 90% of the work :)
<HardDisk> and that 20% of those 90% did the organizing :)
<thelinuxer> ok, and ...
<HardDisk> it was a bit unorganized from the end guys handling the guests
<HardDisk> people would come in and pass through, the secretaries sometimes would just not bother calling out for them to sign in
<HardDisk> so I'd have to get them to sign in
<HardDisk> the "presentation" videos were def not prepared
<thelinuxer> lol ! secretaries !
<HardDisk> people didnt understand some of the videos presented
<thelinuxer> was there any audio with the videos ?
<thelinuxer> we had an audio problem, was it ever fixed ?
<HardDisk> I was sort of surprised to see stephen fry on one of the videos, he's a british celebrity that I know
<HardDisk> yea...the audio part was just pointless.
<HardDisk> it was fixed by getting speakers
<HardDisk> but the presentation was too close to the instructional installation session there was a bit of a clash
<thelinuxer> yes i understand
<thelinuxer> it was a gr8 to get the place organized for the sessions
<thelinuxer> it's not prepared for this purpose
<HardDisk> I got that part :)
<HardDisk> the good thing is that im glad people were interested
<thelinuxer> we didn't have enough electricity sockets
<thelinuxer> yeah sure
<HardDisk> meaning, that people came to ask me about you guys by name.
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, http://eglug.org/node/3903
<HardDisk> or by the session type.
<thelinuxer> some people were interested in getting the CDs
<thelinuxer> although they didn't know what we were talking about
<HardDisk> there is a spelling mistake.
<HardDisk> their.
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: ezayyak :) ?
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: thanx ya basha kan nefsena teb2a ma3ana
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: spelling mistake, where ?
<HardDisk> ^^^
<HardDisk> their.
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, i need ubuntu-eg logo with the new branding
<bahaa2008> i'm creating facebook page
<HardDisk> well are we recreating the logo?
<thelinuxer> can anyone tell me the difference between a page and a group ?
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008 wants the logo that was printed on the T-Shirts
<bahaa2008> yes
<HardDisk> k well I'd like to implement the pyramids ubuntu logo in there as well
<HardDisk> we can make it in the top corner like the new ubuntu logo
<bahaa2008> i love the t-shirts
<bahaa2008> i wanna one
<HardDisk> ill let my gf do it for us
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, it's totally different in functions
<HardDisk> she works in illustrator
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: come take one
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, it's like a friend on ur list
<bahaa2008> u see it's updates on your news feed
<HardDisk> linuxer who made the logo, send me the svg
<HardDisk> I want to try different things
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: u know, what i am little tired of the pyramids and pharaohs thing
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: ok no prob
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, the new logo is really awesome
<thelinuxer> i will send the logo to u guys
<HardDisk> just a small one at the top corner like the ubuntu logo, I mean other locos do implement their country symbols
<HardDisk> just want to see what it would look like
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: np
<HardDisk> if it looks bad, then skip it
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, we will not change in in wiki
<HardDisk> and why not? if something looks better
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: actually i was planning on changing it :)
<HardDisk> change is what its all about
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, we want to make changes
<Guest20646> e7na bto3 letchenj
* ** Guest20646 is now known as Sensiva
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: lol
<thelinuxer> wait guys i am trying to crop the log for u
<HardDisk> aho geih el hayizbotak
<HardDisk> lol
<Sensiva> hellew heros :D
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, don't u consider about making it legal to make the loco an apporved loco team
<bahaa2008> and get ubuntu-eg.org.eg
<HardDisk> .org.eg?
<HardDisk> meh
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: of course we considered making the team approved
<HardDisk> bahaa thats exactly what we're working on.
<thelinuxer> by y the .org.eg part ?
<HardDisk> I attended a meeting first of the month about this issue
<HardDisk> and hopefully I'll have some good news for you soon.
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, to make officail for canonical and get financial support,t-shirts , CD and a lot of support
<HardDisk> there is no financial support.
<HardDisk> but marketing etc yes.
* ** EgYPaRaDoX is now known as Guest60685
<Sensiva> tab matego e7na elli nakhod el domain da
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, to get .org.eg you have to be registered organization
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: yes i know
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, this is the rules on egypt
<HardDisk> not until we're a real LoCo team.
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: and it's not easy to make one
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, it's mainly about activites
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, it take time only
<HardDisk> and I will get approval as soon as they see some effort, considering I was member of the Massachusetts and North Virginia LoCo teams.
<bahaa2008> but it's not that hard
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: and y would we take that hassle ? I mean are there any benefits from creating that organization ?especially now ?
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, i feel shy when i see the other loco teams work
<HardDisk> that's why I'm here, to help build the cairo team.
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, i'm thinking about offical loco team
<bahaa2008> and approved one
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: it doesn't need us to be an organization wala 7aga
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, the egypt team :p
<HardDisk> thelinuxer, it's enough being a LoCo team, you have many benefits
<thelinuxer> we have to write the approval application
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, to get the .org.eg ?
<thelinuxer> write all the experiences we have .. bla bla
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, it's not critical issue
<HardDisk> it's good for your C.V. :)
<bahaa2008> let's make it approved first
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: belzabt
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: lol
<HardDisk> bas I need more people to be actively participating
<HardDisk> and know their roles
<HardDisk> I want to know where did MFawzy disappear?
<HardDisk> he told me to help with the guest sign ins, then he left.
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: he didn't disappear wala 7aga, he was giving sessions :D
<HardDisk> Omar had problems creating or at least implementing the apt-mirror, we cannot assign someone a task if they dont know how to do it.
<HardDisk> k, didnt see him then.
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, first issue on ubuntu-plus http://www.itwadi.com/node/1333
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, it's the first magazine in arabic about ubuntu
<bahaa2008> i have article published on it :D
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: that's cool man !
<thelinuxer> ok i will read it isA ASA I get home
<bahaa2008> ‫01 طرق لستخدام لينكس في الشركات الكبرى‬
<HardDisk> is it based on the ubuntu circle magazine?
<bahaa2008> 10 طرق لستخدام لينكس في الشركات الكبرى‬
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, no it's arabic articles
<bahaa2008> from arabic websites
<HardDisk> k, fa its a selection of translated articles
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, mainly yes
<HardDisk> k, here are original articles, http://fullcirclemagazine.org/
<HardDisk> and they do provide the means to translate it
<bahaa2008> we still in translation stage
<HardDisk> so you can take the magazine and translate it in your own language
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, what ever it's a good try
<HardDisk> ?
<thelinuxer> HardDisk: bahaa2008: it's cool that we have an arabic ubuntu maganize :)
<HardDisk> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMagazine/TranslateFullCircle
<HardDisk> I dont see why not translate fullcircle in arabic.
<HardDisk> since it's already available in over 10 languages.
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, issues different for arabic ppl
<bahaa2008> i mean arabic ppl have different interests
<HardDisk> read the magazine before you judge.
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, if u interseted on doing the arabic version take the lead :)
<HardDisk> thats your problem, you only want to do what you want.
<HardDisk> instead of taking opinions
<bahaa2008> HardDisk, i don't want to do any :p
<bahaa2008> i'm just suggesting
<HardDisk> i've got better things to do, see ya.
<bahaa2008> i'm responsible for any magazines
* ** HardDisk sets mode: -o HardDisk
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: HardDisk: just sent u the logo
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, thanks
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: yw
<bahaa2008> send u invetation on the fb
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, ^
<bahaa2008> fb == facebook
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: loool
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: ok
* ** Guest60685 is now known as EgYPaRaDoX
<Sensiva> thelinuxer who is Mohamed Ahmed?
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: I don't know him
<thelinuxer> bas he wanted to come
<thelinuxer> and something came up
<thelinuxer> that's all I know
<Sensiva> ok, ana fakro 7ad ne3rafo wana nasi
<pfui> the gtk guy perhaps?
* pfui pokes Sensiva
<Sensiva> hey pfui :D:D
<thelinuxer> pfui: the GTK guy was Mohammed Habib
<pfui> I really wanted to attend that session
<Sensiva> thank you bro for taking my place in those sessions
<pfui> thelinuxer: ah, sorry
<pfui> Sensiva: np, my pleasure ;)
<thelinuxer> pfui: np
<Sensiva> pfui lazem tegi our next meeting insha2allah
<pfui> sure thing, when and where?
<Sensiva> lessa benettefe2
<Sensiva> I will let you know
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: el moshkela fe el exams
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: pfui: next week anytime will be fine for me isA
<mustafa> hi
<Sensiva> mashi, el mohem neb2a 3arfeen gadwal a3mal mo3ayan
<mustafa> ??
<mustafa> can any one help me ?
<mustafa> ??
<Sensiva> mustafa sure, just give me a minute
<mustafa> ok
<thelinuxer> mustafa: hi
<mustafa> hi
<mustafa> do you know the chat empathy ?
<mustafa> ?
<thelinuxer> mustafa: i personally use pidgin
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: do u use empathy ?
<EgYPaRaDoX> I use empathy
<mustafa> what's the best ?
<EgYPaRaDoX> enta 3ayez eh?
<mustafa> empathy or pidgin
<mustafa> ana kont 3ayez a3raf ezay ash3al acount el facebook 3aleh ?
<EgYPaRaDoX> empathy
<EgYPaRaDoX> yenfa3
<mustafa> garbtoh 2bl keda?
<Sensiva> I don't use empathy or pidgin.
<Sensiva> basta3mel IRC bas
<thelinuxer> we pidgin kaman yenfa3
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: only the geeky stuff lol!
<EgYPaRaDoX> mesh mota2aked men pdigin
<Sensiva> hehe
<EgYPaRaDoX> lol
<thelinuxer> EgYPaRaDoX: mustafa: Pidgin has this plugin pidgin-facebookchat
<pfui> Sensiva: garab weechat ba2a! :D
<thelinuxer> just install it and u can add facebook accounts to pidgin
<Sensiva> pfui kowayes ennak fakkarteni
<mustafa> ya3ny anazel pidgin a7san ?
<pfui> I thought ubuntu used gwibber for "broadcasting"
<mustafa> i know
<EgYPaRaDoX> bas in karmic and lucid pidgin is not installed by default
<thelinuxer> EgYPaRaDoX: i am not sure y it was removed
<Sensiva> mustafa nazel el etnen, we garrabhom, elli terta7 feeh esta3melo
<mustafa> but empathy support the facebook chat
<mustafa> just chat
<thelinuxer> EgYPaRaDoX: but I am sure it works perfectly
<Sensiva> pfui remember that youtube client? its minitube
<thelinuxer> mustafa: what do u mean by "just char" ?
<Sensiva> thelinuxer that qt demos package esmaha eh?
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: qt4-demos
<Sensiva> ty
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: yw
<thelinuxer> mustafa: what do u mean by "just chat" ?
<pfui> eih da, it's in ubuntu but not in debian
<mustafa> ana 2asdy en empathy bysha3al el chat bas enma gwibber bysha3al el acount kolo
<pfui> can't try that
<pfui> bas garab el youtube html5 beta, it's much better than having to use the flash plugin
<EgYPaRaDoX> enta 3ayez elchat wala eh belzabt?
<mustafa> ah
<mustafa> tab ana now we ana b setup el pidgin zahar 3 pachages which one ?
<Sensiva> pfui it works \o/
<Sensiva> pfui only chrome or safari, not for FF
<Sensiva> pfui you may get minitube from www.get-deb.com
<pfui> Sensiva: thanks
<Sensiva> uw
<thelinuxer> mustafa: what r these packages ?
<Sensiva> pfui its http://www.getdeb.net
<mustafa> pedgin internet messanger
<mustafa> pedgin internet messangr plugin back
<thelinuxer> mustafa: give me package names
<pfui> Sensiva: seems nice
<thelinuxer> here are the package name
<thelinuxer> pidgin-facebookchat
<mustafa> off the record plugin
<thelinuxer> mustafa: this will install pidgin as a dependency
<mustafa> ok
<mustafa> i installed it
<mustafa> thaaaaaaanks
<mustafa> i have to go now
<thelinuxer> mustafa: yw
<mustafa> salaaaaam
<EgYPaRaDoX> mustafa: yeb2a teegi 3alatoo'
<EgYPaRaDoX> 3alatool*
<mustafa> akeeeeed
<Sensiva> :D
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: EgYPaRaDoX: we will see him again soon.... isA, when he wants to install something else :D
<Sensiva> lol
<EgYPaRaDoX> kwayes
<EgYPaRaDoX> law gab so7abo kaman yeb2a kwayes
<EgYPaRaDoX> 7atta law abdallah
<thelinuxer> EgYPaRaDoX: nefsy a3raf meen abdallah dah
<EgYPaRaDoX> ma7adesh 3aref
<HardDisk> kol da fee ubuntu-tweak
<pfui> aw simply direct the browser to apt:pidgin
* pfui is in love with apturl
<HardDisk> ubuntu-tweak > apturl
<pfui> nah
<pfui> apturl <3
<Sensiva> lol
<Sensiva> HardDisk have you seen Maggies pics in flicker?
<HardDisk> not yet
<HardDisk> I will
<HardDisk> im setting up my photos
<HardDisk> and will see the photos of maggie's
<mohamed> exit
<HardDisk> I've started to write a small article and working on getting some nice logo designs that I will post in the mailing list for your vote/approval so it will be the new official design for the ubuntueg group
<HardDisk> and the article will hopefully be mentioned in either the community times or Egypt today
<HardDisk> my cousin's wife sharon writes for CT
<HardDisk> I'm glad you guys did a group photo
</pre>
