{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
[20:01] <greg-g> Hello there everyone, lets get the LoCo Council meeting started!
[20:01] <greg-g> #startmeeting
[20:01] <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Mar 20 20:01:27 2012 UTC.  The chair is greg-g. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.
[20:01] <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired
[20:01] <czajkowski> thelinuxer: ping
[20:01] <thelinuxer> hi czajkowski
[20:02] <greg-g> We only have one thing on the agenda today, and that is the approval of the Egyptian LoCo
[20:02] <greg-g> hi thelinuxer
[20:02] <czajkowski> anyone else here from the team
[20:02] <thelinuxer> hi greg-g
[20:02] <huats> hello
[20:02] <greg-g> do you mind doing a quick introduction of the Egyptian LoCo?
[20:02] <thelinuxer> yes ashams MohamedAlaa98
[20:02] <thelinuxer> greg-g: of course
[20:02] <greg-g> #topic Egypt LoCo Approval
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: Egypt LoCo Approval
[20:02] <thelinuxer> the team started to be really active almost 2 years ago
[20:02] <czajkowski> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication
[20:02] <SergioMeneses> hi guys
[20:03] <thelinuxer> we made our main objective to introduce more people to free software
[20:03] <thelinuxer> and we decided that ubuntu was the right way to go
[20:03] <greg-g> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/ApprovalApplication
[20:03] <thelinuxer> we had several install fests
[20:03] <thelinuxer> workshops
[20:03] <thelinuxer> and of course we do support on our different channels, IRC, Faceboook ...etc
[20:03] <greg-g> there was a choice? :)
[20:03] <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, nice pictures!
[20:03] <greg-g> (of Ubuntu vs ???) ;)
[20:04] <thelinuxer> SergioMeneses: thanks check out more on facebook
[20:04] <czajkowski> lovely application folks well done
[20:04] <czajkowski> does make things a lot easier!
[20:04] <thelinuxer> czajkowski: thanks
[20:04] <thelinuxer> yes we had a choice :)
[20:04] <SergioMeneses> they have a good number of ubuntu members
[20:04] <thelinuxer> but ubuntu was winning in every way :)
[20:04] <itnet7> Very concise, I really enjoyed reading about what the Egypt team has been doing
[20:04] <greg-g> thelinuxer: :) I know I know, we all do. I'm not always serious in meetings :)
[20:05] <thelinuxer> itnet7: thanks :)
[20:05] <thelinuxer> are there any questions ?
[20:05] <czajkowski> yup
[20:05] <czajkowski> thelinuxer: so tell us how things are done in your tema
[20:05] <czajkowski> *team
[20:06] <czajkowski> how do you organise events?
[20:06] <czajkowski> any issues you've come across and how you've delt with them
[20:06] <thelinuxer> yes of course there are always issues with venues
[20:06] <thelinuxer> but most of this is solved because we have so many active members in different universities
[20:06] <thelinuxer> which is really a good place for our events
[20:07] <czajkowski> nods
[20:07] <czajkowski> true
[20:07]  * greg-g nods to issues associated with venues
[20:07] <thelinuxer> mostly to organize an event we set a date for it like a week after the release date
[20:07] <thelinuxer> then we start to search for an appropriate venues
[20:07]  * greg-g nods
[20:07] <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, I like the new structure, it's working now?
[20:07] <thelinuxer> we start calling for volunteers for the help desk activities and FAQs and giving presentations
[20:08] <thelinuxer> we are actually test driving it right now
[20:08] <thelinuxer> some bugs have been reported on launchpad
[20:08] <thelinuxer> but it's not 100% active
[20:08] <thelinuxer> still some rough edges :)
[20:09] <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, ok!...
[20:09] <thelinuxer> SergioMeneses: :)
[20:09] <czajkowski> you do seem very active my only concern is many members being from unis, will they still be involved once they finish and how to get non uni folks invovled
[20:09] <thelinuxer> we are trying our best, but the fact is if we get for students involved then this technology choice would adopted by companies
[20:10] <thelinuxer> and hence we can make real change
[20:10] <czajkowski> great stuf
[20:10] <czajkowski> I've no other questions
[20:10] <thelinuxer> we also have a couple of members who has graduated and they are still active
[20:10] <xdatap1> thelinuxer, I like the idea of an orientation session. Could you tell us more about it. How do it works? Is it online or face-face activity?
[20:10] <itnet7> Definitely true thelinuxer
[20:10] <greg-g> very good.
[20:10] <thelinuxer> xdatap1: sure
[20:10] <czajkowski> I will say I'm not gone on the use of n00b would perfer to see the word new user. but that's my only comment
[20:11] <greg-g> #voters czajkowski itnet7 huats greg-g xdatap1
[20:11] <meetingology> Current voters: czajkowski greg-g huats itnet7 xdatap1
[20:11] <thelinuxer> czajkowski: sure we can think about another geeky term :)
[20:11] <SergioMeneses> czajkowski, I'm agree
[20:11] <greg-g> agreed re "n00b" :)
[20:11] <greg-g> alright, I think we ready to vote!
[20:11] <xdatap1> greg-g, wait, I asked a question
[20:11] <greg-g> ah, yes, please do
[20:11] <thelinuxer> xdatap1: the session should includedfull details about how the team works
[20:11] <thelinuxer> and what's the different activities people can get involved in
[20:12] <thelinuxer> if it's offline then it would be a normal presentation so the new folks would meet the team
[20:12] <thelinuxer> and if online we can use IRC, Google+ or whatever platform we choose
[20:12] <thelinuxer> )done answering the question :
[20:12] <thelinuxer> :)*
[20:12] <greg-g> :)
[20:12] <xdatap1> thelinuxer, thanks, it's a nice idea, congrats
[20:13] <greg-g> any other questions? I don't want to step on anyone's toes. Hard to read people's faces over IRC :)
[20:13] <thelinuxer> xdatap1: thank you very much
[20:13] <itnet7> good here
[20:13] <xdatap1> thelinuxer, last info, just a curiosity
[20:14] <thelinuxer> xdatap1: please do
[20:14] <xdatap1> thelinuxer, egypt is a very big country. Where are from most of the members? Are them mainly from big cities or do you have people from all around?
[20:14] <thelinuxer> i am happy you asked that
[20:14] <thelinuxer> our biggest governorates are Alexandria and Cairo
[20:14] <thelinuxer> a great number of members are from these 2
[20:15] <thelinuxer> but also there is a small governorate called Mansoura
[20:15] <thelinuxer> some people from Mansoura joined the team
[20:15] <thelinuxer> and one of our very active members is originally from Mansoura
[20:15]  * xdatap1 checking the map :)
[20:15] <thelinuxer> they are planning to start a team there but it hasn't been officially on
[20:16] <thelinuxer> and they were the ones who gave us a chance to participate in OSDay in Mansoura
[20:16] <xdatap1> cool! Thanks thelinuxer!
[20:16] <thelinuxer> xdatap1: yw :)
[20:16] <greg-g> awesome
[20:17] <xdatap1> greg-g, I'm ready to vote
[20:17] <greg-g> alrighty, I think we're all ready then
[20:17] <greg-g> #vote Egypt LoCo Approval
[20:17] <meetingology> Please vote on: Egypt LoCo Approval
[20:17] <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)
[20:17] <greg-g> +1
[20:17] <meetingology> +1 received from greg-g
[20:17] <itnet7> +1
[20:17] <meetingology> +1 received from itnet7
[20:17] <SergioMeneses> +1
[20:17] <xdatap1> +1 keep up the good work
[20:17] <meetingology> +1 keep up the good work received from xdatap1
[20:18] <czajkowski> +1 well done
[20:18] <meetingology> +1 well done received from czajkowski
[20:18] <paultag> 20:11 < greg-g> #voters czajkowski itnet7 huats greg-g xdatap1
[20:18] <paultag> you missed SergioMeneses
[20:18] <huats> +1
[20:18] <meetingology> +1 received from huats
[20:18] <huats> great work
[20:18] <greg-g> whoops!
[20:18] <paultag> :)
[20:18] <greg-g> #endvote
[20:18] <meetingology> Voting ended on: Egypt LoCo Approval
[20:18] <meetingology> Votes for:5 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0
[20:18] <meetingology> Motion carried
[20:18] <huats> I realy like the  application
[20:18] <SergioMeneses> I see
[20:18] <thelinuxer> thanks everyone :)
[20:18] <xdatap1> congratulation thelinuxer !
[20:18] <greg-g> oh well, Egypt still was approved without SergioMeneses' vote :)
[20:18] <thelinuxer> huats: that's Menopia's work our designer :)
[20:18] <Menopia> thanks everyone :)
[20:18] <SergioMeneses> greg-g, :D
[20:19] <greg-g> great job thelinuxer and everyone else in the Egypt team
[20:19] <itnet7> Awesome job, way to go!!
[20:19] <greg-g> SergioMeneses: my apologies, my second faux pas during the meeting ;)
[20:19] <thelinuxer> Thanks again I will go spread the news :)
[20:19] <czajkowski> well done folks
[20:19] <SergioMeneses> thelinuxer, congratulations
[20:19] <greg-g> is there any other business for this LoCo Council meeting?
[20:19] <SergioMeneses> greg-g, don't worry!
[20:19] <czajkowski> and again if you could use another word for n00b like new user that would be best
[20:19] <greg-g> #topic AOB
=== meetingology changed the topic of #ubuntu-meeting to: AOB
[20:19] <thelinuxer> SergioMeneses: thanks :)
</pre>
