{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>

=== What is UEG Official/Core Membership? ===
 {*} It's a group of the most committed persons to the UbuntuEG's mission.

==== Who are UEG Official/Core Members? ====

 {*} Representatives of UbuntuEG.

 {*} Candidates to UbuntuEG Council.

 {*} Naturally, Most active & enthusiastic members.

==== Benefits of membership ====

 {*} Represent UbuntuEG everywhere.

 {*} @ubuntu-eg.org email alias.

 {*} Candidate to UbuntuEG council.

 {*} Your blog gets aggregated on the team's <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-eg.org/planet|planet]]</nowiki>.

=== How to Become a UbuntuEG Official/Core Member? ===

 1. Requirements for Membership:
** UbuntuEG Members are the most active and committed persons in the wide community.

 2. Procedure for Obtaining Membership:
** Preparing your Application (''Personal Wiki Page'', You can use <nowiki>[[yourname|this]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[MembershipTemplate|that]]</nowiki> template as sample) listing all of your efforts inside UbuntuEG:
## A link to your Launchpad profile
## A complete list of your contributions to Ubuntu
## Your plans and ideas in the near and far future

** Code of Conduct
   Please sign the CoC before getting to the membership meeting.

 3. Get to the Meeting.
** Add your information to the meeting list, ''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Council#Agenda|here]]</nowiki>''.
** Come to the meeting on time (20:00 EET) on #ubuntu-eg on Freenode.

----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
