{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting will be on IRC: #Ubuntu-eg, Sunday 30th of May 2010 @ 7:30pm

== Agenda Items ==
* Technology choice. What will we use to implement the website ? Drupal, Joomla, Wordpress ..etc 
* Features. We need to define the features list, it may include the following:
*** Blogging for our team members.
*** Aggregator for our list of contributors.
*** Video portal.
*** Wiki.
*** Forums.

== Present ==
* thelinuxer
* me2resh
* EgyParadox
* Anas

late arrivals

* jonathanhindi
* The-NightPhoenix
* maggie
* m1nour

== Proceedings ==

* ubuntueg vimeo channel created.

== Conclusion ==
We agreed to have a Drupal installation with the following features:
* Blogging engine where only team members will be able to create blogs on it. Anas volunteered in the Arabic section of the website while me2resh volunteered for the English section.
* Also, an aggregator will be implemented to collect posts from external blogs.
* A video channel was created on vimeo to help in the collaborative uploading of video material.

We settled on the following action items:
* Create basic drupal installation
* Use the new theme
* Deploy
* Ask the council to change the ip for ubuntu-eg.org to the new ip
* Check vimeo channels and their capabilities

All the above action items are assigned to Ahmed Toulan(thelinuxer)

IRC logs are available <nowiki>[[EgyptTeam-Meetings-IRCLogs-2010-05-30]]</nowiki>
