{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Embedded Linux Session 5 ==
=== Points covered: ===
 1. Linux root filesystem: Principles and solutions:
  i. Filesystems.
  i. mount/umount.
  i. Root filesystem.
  i. Location of the root filesystem.
  i. Mounting rootfs from storage devices.
  i. rootfs in memory: initramfs.
 1. Linux root filesystem contents:
  i. Root filesystem organization.
  i. Important directories.
  i. Separation of programs and libraries.
  i. Devices:
   a. Types of devices.
   a. Devices: every thing is a file.
   a. Device file examples.
   a. Creating device files.
  i. proc virtual filesystem.
  i. proc contents
  i. sysfs filesystem.
  i. Basic applications.
  i. Overall booting process.
 1. Busybox:
  i. Why BusyBox?
  i. General purpose toolbox: BusyBox.
  i. BusyBox commands.
  i. Applet highligh: BusyBox init.
  i. Applet highlight - BusyBox vi.
  i. Configuring BusyBox.
  i. BusyBox make xconfig.
  i. Compiling BusyBox.
 1. Block filesystems:
  i. Block vs. flash.
  i. Block device list.
  i. Traditional block filesystems.
  i. Journaled filesystems.
  i. Filesystem recovery after crashes.
  i. Journaled block filesystems.
  i. Creating ext2/ext3 volumes.
  i. Mounting filesystem images.
  i. Squashfs.
   a. Squashfs - How to use.
  i. tmpfs.
  i. Mixing read-only and read-write filesystems.
 1. Flash filesystems:
  i. The MTD subsystem
  i. MTD devices
  i. MTD partitioning
  i. Definition of MTD partitions
  i. Modifying MTD partitions
  i. mtd-utils
  i. jffs2
   a. jffs2 - How to use
   a. How to create a jffs2 image
   a. Mounting a jffs2 image on your host
   a. Initializing jffs2 partitions from U-boot
  i. yaffs2
   a. yaffs2 - How to use
  i. UBI
   a. UBIFS
   a. UBI layout
   a. UBI - Preparation
   a. UBI - Attaching
   a. UBI - Volume management
   a. UBIFS - How to use
   a. Ubinize
   a. UBIFS - How to prepare a root fs
  i. Our benchmarks
  i. Issues with flash-based block storage
  i. Reducing the number of writes
 1. Filesystem choice summary

=== Present: ===
* Mohamed Nour El-Din.
* Islam Hassan.
* Ahmed Mamdouh
=== Assignments: ===
* If you have a memory card, try to work on the "Block filesystems" lab.
* Download busybox & explore it using "make menuconfig".
* Search for qemu & what it's capable of.
=== See also: ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-07-08-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 1: 2011-07-08-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-07-23-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 2: 2011-07-23-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-07-30-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 3: 2011-07-30-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Events/2011-08-06-EmbeddedLinuxSessions|Session 4: 2011-08-06-EmbeddedLinuxSessions]]</nowiki>
