{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

 {X} DRAFT
== Regulations ==
=== Council ===

* '''Membership''': Membership of Council requires:
** 1. Prior interest with the ''meta''-work of the team.
** 2. Commitment to the specific tasks of Council.
** 2.1 Being ''Active'' with Council tasks.
** 2.2 Being ''Responsive'' to requests from inside or outside the team.
** 2.3 Being ''Committed'' to deadlines of every assignment you, or the council, get.

* '''Leaving''': 
** 1. Send an email to the Council's Mailing List acknowledging your leaving, with reasoning.
** 2. Once the est of Council members accept your resignation, Send an email to the General Mailing list acknowledging you resignation and calling for elections to fill the vacant seat.
** 3. Elections to fill the vacant seat is to be held within one month from resignation date, and the Council is responsible for holding it.

* '''Elections''': 
** Council members are to be chosen through public elections on <nowiki>[[|Link]]</nowiki>.
** Council elections is to be held once every 6 months, from date to date+week.
** Council members are the 5 persons with top voting scores.

=== Focus Groups ===

* '''Membership''': Membership of any FG requires:
** 1. Prior experience with the specific job of that FG.
** 2. Commitment to the specific tasks of that FG.
** 2.1 Being ''Active'' with that FG tasks.
** 2.2 Being ''Responsive'' to requests from inside or outside the team.
** 2.3 Being ''Committed'' to deadlines of every assignment you get.

* '''Leaving''': Upon your decision to leave, please:
** 1. Send an email to that FG Mailing List acknowledging your leaving, with or without reasoning.
** 2. Release any special status you might got with membership, like becoming an Operator on the IRC channel.
 
* '''Elections''': FG leaders are chosen through elections inside that FG:
** Elections is to be held once every year, from date to date+week.
** All members are nominated and voting for self is prohibited.
