{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting Information:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Time:
| 17:00
|-
| Location:
| #ubuntu-eg IRC channel
|}

== Agenda Items ==

* Forming Council:
** Responsibilities of Council
** How can persons join.
** Council Term.
** Number of members

* Focus Groups:
** List of FGs to initiate.
** How can persons join.
** Groups leadership.
** Leader responsibility.
** Leadership Term.

* Eventing:
** Increasing On-line events?
** Regulating ground events, by location and term.
** Finding fund for events.

* Fund:
** Gain better/stable funding?

== Present ==

* Jonathan Hindi 
* Mohammed Gamal
* Islam Wazery
* Ahmed Shams

== Conclusion ==
* Responsibilities of Council: 1)Solve conflicts, 2)Approve process change.
* Council Term. 6 months
* Council Elections, 2 weeks before release date, and becomes operational 1 week after release.
* Release dates are, End of April and End of October.
* Number of council members are 5 initially, but 5% when more activity appears.
* Discussing nature of FGs is to be held for next meting.
* Full discussion log can be found '''<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2012/02/03/%23ubuntu-eg.html#t14:56|here]]</nowiki>'''.

----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
