{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<<BR>>

 '''''"Becoming a member of the Egyptian local community team of Ubuntu will introduce you to a really helpful community where you can support Ubuntu and get supported." '''''

== Benefits of joining the team ==
 {*} Get free support from the Egyptian local community.

 {*} Know a lot of Ubuntu fans and open source enthusiasts in Egypt.

 {*} Support you spreading Ubuntu and open source every where you want, like making events in any suitable place you suggests.

 {*} The opportunity to be an Ubuntu official member.

 {*} And sure having a lot of fun with the team events
<<BR>>
== How to join the Egyptian Ubuntu Team ==
 {*} '''Step 1''': Create a Launchpad account.(If you didn't already have one!). <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/+login|Do it Now!]]</nowiki>

 {*} '''Step 2''': Join our Launchpad team. <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-eg/+join|Do it Now!]]</nowiki>

 {*} '''Step 3''': Sign the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~/+codesofconduct|Do it Now!]]</nowiki>

 {*} ''' Step 4''': Subscribe to the Mailing list to stay in touch with us. <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-eg|Do it Now!]]</nowiki>

 {*} '''Step 5''': Find the nearest Ubuntu-eg members to your location to help promote Ubuntu in your area <nowiki>[[EgyptTeam-Zones|Find!]]</nowiki>
<<BR>>
== How to Contribute ==
 '''You can choose any of these options to contribute with us:'''

 {*} Join our mailing list.

 {*} Find a micro group in your area. Currently we have 4 micro groups. One in '''Cairo''', main contact thelinuxer [at] ubuntu.com, and one in '''Alexandria''', main contact Extend [at] tecmina.com, and one in '''Mansoura''' ahmedkhattabshams [at] gmail.com, and one '''Menofia''' prog.ahmedsamir [at] live.com

 {*} Try to attend meetings which will are conducted either over IRC or physically in person at agreed local locations. (Follow the mailing list for information).

 {*} Spread the word of Ubuntu in your society.

 {*} Bringing more members into our team.

 {*} Write articles in our wiki or in our up comping web portal.

 {*} Translate Ubuntu packages and wiki articles into Arabic.

 {*} Share success stories of Ubuntu experience.

 {*} Participate in our events.

 {*} Introduce any ideas and methods of implementation.

 {*} Help us on any of these fields: Logistics, Website, Marketing, PR, Social Media, Graphics and IRC.
<<BR>>
== Current Team Structure ==
 {*} '''Logistics''' : Ahmed Toulan + Mahmoud Ibrahim

 {*} '''Website''' : Jonathan Hindi + Mahmoud Fawzy

 {*} '''Marketing + PR''' : Anas Emad + Jonathan N. Hindi

 {*} '''Social Media''': Ahmed Adel + Omar Mohsen + Islam Wazery

 {*} '''Graphics''' : Islam Wazery + Abdallah Hodeib

 {*} '''IRC''' : Omar mohsen + Ahmed Toulan + Ahmed Osama + AhmedShams

 {*} '''Mailing list''' : Ahmed Toulan + AhmedShams(Backup)

 {*} '''Financial''' : Anas Emad

 {*} '''Wiki Maintenance''' : AhmedShams 

 '''If you are interested in any of these fields just edit the page and insert your name.'''

 '''Note''': Donations will be collected once/month on the first Friday of the month. The monthly donations can be as low as 10 LE.

 Also we agreed on having 2 meetings/month. On the first and third Fridays of the month. The first meeting will be an in person meeting while the second will be an IRC meeting.

----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
