{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We discussed a few ideas to activate the team, the ideas mentioned in <<BR>>
Bahaa's mail sent last week and a few other ideas we came up with in the <<BR>>
meeting. <<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
1. Training: <<BR>>
<<BR>>
We proposed the possibility of creating courses about Ubuntu in general. We<<BR>>
can start by basic user levels, How to use Ubuntu, programming,<<BR>>
administration or anything else. Moataz Mahmoud volunteered to give basic <<BR>>
usage sessions. He will try to provide us with his course plan or at least <<BR>>
part of it by next Friday isA. From my side I will try to find a good place <<BR>>
to host these courses.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
2. University activities:<<BR>>
<<BR>>
We decided to try to create a permanent booth in Faculty of Engineering,<<BR>>
Cairo University. This booth will provide support for Ubuntu and publicity<<BR>>
for our group. Mahmoud Fawzy and Mahmoud Ibrahim we will be responsible for<<BR>>
this.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
Mohammed Gammal proposed the same possibility in Faculty of Computer<<BR>>
Science, Cairo University.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
3. Events: <<BR>>
<<BR>>
We will have 2 main events each year. One with every release.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
4. Facebook: <<BR>>
<<BR>>
A new group has been created. Group name is "ubuntu-eg" <<BR>>
http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=103937683868&ref=nf <<BR>>
Please add yourself to the group.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
5. Blogs: <<BR>>
<<BR>>
We discussed the capability of creating a planet for ubuntu-eg. This planet <<BR>>
will simply aggregate the blogs of the members, but we decided to postpone <<BR>>
this for a while. <<BR>>
<<BR>>
