{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

Meeting will be in Beanos Cafe Abbas El3akkad

== Agenda Items ==

* Discussing current team structure.
* Discuss donations.

== Present ==
* Ahmed Toulan.

* Abdallah Hodeib.

* Islam Alwazery.

* Jonathan Hindi.

* Islam Hassan.

* Anas Emad.

* Mahmoud Fawzy.

* Mahmoud Ibrahim.
 
* Mohamed Gamal.

* Ahmed Adel.

== Conclusion ==

* We agreed on the following team structure.

 {*} '''Logistics''' : Ahmed Toulan + Mahmoud Ibrahim

 {*} '''Website''' : Jonathan Hindi + Mahmoud Fawzy

 {*} '''Marketing + PR''' : Anas + Jonathan

 {*} '''Social Media''': Ahmed Adel (Facebook) + Omar Mohsen (Twitter) + Islam Wazery (Flicker)

 {*} '''Graphics''' : Islam Wazery + Abdallah Hodeib

 {*} '''IRC''' : Omar mohsen + Ahmed Toulan

 {*} '''Mailing list''' : Ahmed Toulan.

 {*} '''Financial''' : Anas Emad

 '''If you are interested in any of these fields just edit the page and insert your name.'''

 '''Note''': Donations will be collected once/month on the first Friday of the month. The monthly donations can be as low as 10 LE.

 Also we agreed on having 2 meetings/month. On the first and third Fridays of the month. The first meeting will be an in person meeting while the second will be an IRC meeting.
