{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

 {*} This page lists tasks that should be handled by this <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-eg-council|step-council]]</nowiki>. If you think a task should be worked out, please add it <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/KnowledgeBase/Drafts/TaskList?action=edit&editor=text|here]]</nowiki> or on the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/future-of-ubutnu-egypt-loco-team|spec page]]</nowiki>.

 {*} You can always request feedback on any of the tasks listed by sending a message to ubuntu-eg-council@lists.launchpad.net or to team's mailing list ubuntu-eg@lists.ubuntu.com or through the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/future-of-ubutnu-egypt-loco-team/+requestfeedback|spec]]</nowiki> on lp or by directly contacting any of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-eg-council|step-council]]</nowiki> members.

* Council:

** Form rules for jumping in and out a stable council.

** Define stable council's responsibilities.<Suggestion: (1)Constant:track all team's matters, (2)On-Time:solve conflicts, approve process change.>

** Should mini-locos have council members(at least one?).<Sug: No.>

* Focus Groups:

** Decide initial Focus Groups.<SUG: Support, Marketing, Moderators, Organizers, Freedom>

** Form rules for jumping and out Focus groups.

** Define responsibilities of each FG.<SUG: General: staying up to date and following-up with matters>

* Fund:

** Fund-raising.

** Banking, fundholding.

* Mediums:

** Arrange and set specific use for each communication mean team has for all of our public mediums.

** FB: Direct link sharing only.

** Increase team's presence on Arabic-F/LOSS ecosystem in Egypt.

* Other:

** Weekly IRC Meetings for step-council?(SUG:Quorum =4/5?).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
----
CategoryEgyptLoCoTeam
