{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Log of the 2010-06-25 Meeting ==

<pre>

<Sensiva> ana wenta wala 7ad taletna...
<Sensiva> ana wenta, ana wentawbas
<Blaze_Boy> hahahah
<Sensiva> Blaze_Boy do you know we are going to have a meeting in 10 minutes?
<Blaze_Boy> yes
<Sensiva> Have you reviewed the meeting agenda?
<Blaze_Boy> but i don't know the details ?
<Sensiva> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2010-06-25
<Sensiva> mgamal basha :D
<Blaze_Boy> Sensiva, : i read something about , linux, kernel, ubuntu, opensource ... etc.
<mgamal> hello
<Sensiva> Blaze_Boy Agenda is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2010-06-25
<Blaze_Boy> mgamal, : hey
<mgamal> Blaze_Boy: hey
<Blaze_Boy> Sensiva, : i'm from Suez canal univ, computer science ? the agenda talks about prints, CD, course ? what course ?
<Blaze_Boy> Sensiva, : i prefere to wait and see
<Sensiva> Blaze_Boy It seems you didn't subscribe to the mailing list, Its a summer training course for faculty of engineering students in Cairo University
<Blaze_Boy> Sensiva, : i subscribed, 2 days ago :D
<Sensiva> It has two parts Hardware, and software, we will contribute in the software part by training them "How to use Ubuntu/Linux"
<thelinuxer> hi guya
<Sensiva> Well, el mafrood konna n7ot info about this event in the events page
<thelinuxer> guys*
<Sensiva> bas ana 3andi sever brain damage in which I cannot do any wiki pages
<Sensiva> :<
<Sensiva> hello lenoksar
<Blaze_Boy> Sensiva, : aha, got it.
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: lol
<thelinuxer> hi mgamal
<thelinuxer> hi Blaze_Boy
<mgamal> hi thelinuxer
<Blaze_Boy> thelinuxer, : hey
<Sensiva> thelinuxer 3ereft emta el ubuntu training hayebtedi?
<thelinuxer> i will call Ahmed Ismael to confirm
<thelinuxer> hold on
* Sensiva holds on
<mgamal> brb
<mahmoud> al salamo 3alekom
<Sensiva> 3alekom el salaaaaam yabo 7anafi
<Sensiva> ezayak ya lord
<mahmoud> l7l tamam
<Sensiva> khallast exams?
<mahmoud> 3amel eh ya kbeer
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: wsa
<Sensiva> 7amdo lellah, mashi el 7al
<thelinuxer> eih el a7'bar ?
<mahmoud> no 3andy emte7an m3mal 5afef
<mahmoud> l7l
<Sensiva> tayeb haye
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: i just called Ahmed Ismael
<thelinuxer> he confirmed again that the software training will start 3/7
<mgamal> back
<mahmoud> ok
<mahmoud> i willnot be there
<mahmoud> i will be in marsa matroo7 :D
* ** ChanServ changes topic to "Welcome to Ubuntu Egypt. "Do you Ubuntu, like I do?" | HERE!: Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx | http://www.ubuntu.com/ | SA: http://www.ubuntu.com/usn | Website beta Launch http://loco.thelinuxer.net | Next team meeting https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2010-06-25 | Meeting in session"
<thelinuxer> ok guys
<thelinuxer> i just called islam and john
<thelinuxer> islam will late and john will join us anytime now
<thelinuxer> i guess we should start
<thelinuxer> Please everyone review the meeting agenda
<thelinuxer> it's not written in any specific order
<thelinuxer> it was just a brain dump
<thelinuxer> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EgyptTeam/Meetings/Agendas/2010-06-25
<Blaze_Boy> thelinuxer: checked
<mahmoud> done
<thelinuxer> ok i will give a brief introduction about this small event
<thelinuxer> the CECE group in Cairo University faculty of Engineering is responsible for the summer training of first year electronics students
<thelinuxer> the training should be 1 week SW training 2 weeks HW training
<thelinuxer> he asked us for help in the SW training and we should train the students to use Ubuntu
<thelinuxer> the training should start on the 3rd of July
<mgamal> ok
<thelinuxer> and end on the 8th of July
<thelinuxer> every instructor will give 1 session/day for 2 hrs
<thelinuxer> and the course is 2 session = 4 hrs
<thelinuxer> and he will the course to 2 different groups of students
<thelinuxer> r u following me guys ?
<thelinuxer> everything clear ?
<Sensiva> yes
<mgamal> just a second
<mgamal> let me check if I understood this well
<Blaze_Boy> thelinuxer: sure
<thelinuxer> mgamal: ok ...
<mgamal> each volunteer will give 1 session per day
<mgamal> for two days
<mgamal> right?
<thelinuxer> no for 6 days
<mgamal> can you give me an example
<mgamal> I mean
<mgamal> this would require quite a lot of volunteers
<Sensiva> ana 3andi tare2a as'hal showaya momken tewadda7
<mgamal> we need 4 volunteers per day
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: shoot ya me3alem
<mgamal> please go on Sensiva
<thelinuxer> yes we ened 4 volunteers fe3lan
<Sensiva> bezabt
<thelinuxer> bas CECE is providing us with 2 volunteers from their side
<Sensiva> each group will have two two sessions (2 hours each)
<Sensiva> and one session per day
<mgamal> group = ubutnu-eg or CECE?
<Sensiva> two groups will be lectured in parallel by two volunteers from 5-7pm
<thelinuxer> group = student group
<thelinuxer> not volunteers
<mgamal> ah
<Sensiva> other two groups will be lectured in parallel by other two volunteers from 7pm -9pm
<mgamal> ok
<thelinuxer> ok tamam
<thelinuxer> i will continue
<mgamal> so 2 volunteers will take the 5-7 pm slot
<mgamal> and the other two will take the 7-9 pm slot
<mgamal> right?
<Sensiva> yes
<thelinuxer> yes exactly
<mgamal> cool
<thelinuxer> ok
<thelinuxer> also we will have an opening session isA
<Sensiva> totalling 12 group 20, students each
<mgamal> total 240
<mahmoud> we are more than 240
<mahmoud> :D
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: bas enta mesh 7ateegy el training :P
<Sensiva> yeb2om 239?
<Sensiva> :D
<mahmoud> ah ana mesafer
<mahmoud> :)
<thelinuxer> la2 enta 7atet7en ma3ana isA
<mahmoud> la e7na
<mahmoud> 275 belzabt
<mahmoud> 8 calsses
<mahmoud> and two groups :)
<mgamal> ok
<thelinuxer> it doesn't matter really
<thelinuxer> so each lab will take 22 student instead of 20
<mgamal> are the same set of volunteers going to give the session throughout the six days
<mgamal> ?
<R4md4c> Guys is this channel only for planning? or for training and lecturing also ?
<thelinuxer> as for our time slot we are almost free to do what we want
<thelinuxer> R4md4c: this is our communication for almost everything
<thelinuxer> R4md4c: but we are in a meeting now
<thelinuxer> anymore question ?
<R4md4c> no thanks
<thelinuxer> ok
<thelinuxer> about the opening session
<thelinuxer> we are supposed to talk about free culture, licensing what's an operating system ..etc
<mgamal> that should be me?
<thelinuxer> and i asked mgamal to help us with this session
<thelinuxer> mgamal: yes :D
<thelinuxer> the session will start on the first day @ 2:30 PM
<thelinuxer> and u should finish @ 4:30 max
<thelinuxer> to give the student a break before the training begins
<Sensiva> hayel
<mgamal> I like
<thelinuxer> so this point is settled ?
<thelinuxer> mgamal: i guess u have the presentation ready ..
<mgamal> yep
<thelinuxer> ok cool
<mgamal> same good ol' presentation
<mgamal> and I don't think it'd even take 2 full hours
<thelinuxer> ok that
<thelinuxer> that's a max
<thelinuxer> law 3ayez te change el ma3ad 2oly
<mgamal> not at all
<mgamal> july 3rd is perfect
<thelinuxer> asdy el sa3a
<mgamal> it's still perfect
<thelinuxer> ok cool
<thelinuxer> so now u have all the information i have
<thelinuxer> i don't know if u guys checked this document
<thelinuxer> https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AauVUEKmQFwbZGQ3cnFoOGdfMzdjcTl0Yzhnag&hl=en
<mgamal> checked
<thelinuxer> now what we really need to do is prepare for the course itself
<thelinuxer> we have the 4 hr challenge
<thelinuxer> we can teach that much in only 4hrs
<thelinuxer> but we need to make as good as possible
<thelinuxer> some of the stuff written in this document is related to mgamal's session
<thelinuxer> sorry guys i shouldn't have discussed this point now
<thelinuxer> cause it will eat up our time
<mgamal> well
<thelinuxer> i guess we should leae it to the end
<mgamal> just to make sure
<mgamal> ok
<thelinuxer> leave*
<thelinuxer> Sensiva volunteered to remaster the ubuntu CD with the latest updates for the sake of this event
<thelinuxer> we will need to burn a few CDs (240) and we can get help from CECE in the burning process
<mahmoud> fawzy
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: malo ?
<mahmoud> tell me that in th faculty of computer science
<mahmoud> they burn CDs
<mahmoud> abig no. of CDs
<mahmoud> in low cost
<mgamal> not sure about that
<mahmoud> less than the cost if we burn it with ourselves
<thelinuxer> so we just give them the original CD and they will burn it for us ?
<mahmoud> yes
<thelinuxer> can u please confirm that
<thelinuxer> cause it will save us gr8 time
<mahmoud> i will try to go there tomorrow to confirm about that
<thelinuxer> ok cool and don
<thelinuxer> don't forget to report to the mailing list
<mahmoud> ok i will isA
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: do u have anything to add ?
<Sensiva> the openning session will be once and for all students?
<thelinuxer> yes
<thelinuxer> but I was talking about the CDs now :D
<Sensiva> tayeb I am thinking of moving some points men el list we a7ottaha fe 7egr mgamal
<mgamal> like?
<Sensiva> yeah I understand sorry :D
<thelinuxer> u mean the google doc ?
<Sensiva> yes
<thelinuxer> sure
<Sensiva> the first few questions about linux and kernel wel 7agat di
<thelinuxer> he should take these points out from the document
<Sensiva> kay I am done with this point
<Sensiva> about CDs, mahmoud please ask if they burn DVDs kaman walla CDs bas?
<mgamal> he = me?
<thelinuxer> ok, and u don't want to add anything to the CDs point ?
<thelinuxer> mgamal: yes
<mgamal> by taking it out of the document you mean?
<Sensiva> mgamal I just listed some point, hatakhod menhom showaya tetkallem 3anhom in your session
<thelinuxer> wait i willl give an example
<mahmoud> i will and i hope this information be true isA
<mgamal> ah, I thought you mean t we should cancel them
<mgamal> :D
<thelinuxer> mgamal: sorry if u confused u
<thelinuxer> if u check the document again
<thelinuxer> u'll see "opening session topics" title
<thelinuxer> i moved one of the points to this section
<thelinuxer> u should do the same for all relevant topics
<mgamal> ok
<Sensiva> la2 dana ha7ot kaman
<mgamal> I guess I'll be taking all the points until the ubuntu philosophy
<mgamal> ok
<mgamal> prepare the document and tell me
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: cool
<mgamal> so that I can prepare the presentation
<thelinuxer> ok are we done with these points ?
<Sensiva> maho khalas keda you have the points concerning your session
<Sensiva> you may start creating the presentation
<jonathanhindi> Hi
<thelinuxer> hi jonathanhindi
<Sensiva> yes I am done with it, I will start to assign durations we a2assem ba2a
<Sensiva> hello jonathanhindi
<mgamal> ok
<jonathanhindi> Sorry All Hardware Failure
<mahmoud> hi jonathon
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: np
<jonathanhindi> Hi mohmoud
<thelinuxer> ok i guess we're done with the point
<thelinuxer> next printed materials
<Sensiva> courses materials? walla eh bezabt?
<thelinuxer> in the last event we handed out a small page talking about software freedom and ubuntu ..etc
<thelinuxer> not the course material
<mahmoud> it is ossum
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: remember that small page u printed for us ?
<thelinuxer> it was bilingual we beta3
<Sensiva> yeah, I will be adding some points 3aleha kaman, bas in arabic ba2a
<Sensiva> tehaya2li el english malhash lazma, walla eh ra2yoko?
<thelinuxer> i guess it should be in both Arabic and English
<thelinuxer> lets vote
<mahmoud> no el english mohem
<jonathanhindi> yes should be in English and in Arabic please !
* Sensiva votes arabic only
<mahmoud> i think it should be the same as the pervious one
* thelinuxer votes bilingual
<thelinuxer> mgamal: do u have a say in this ?
* mgamal votes bilingual
<jonathanhindi> thelinuxer how do you vote in IRC ?!
<thelinuxer> bos IMO it won't hurt if we have it bilingual
<thelinuxer> we are just using the "/me" thing
<thelinuxer> but it might hurt if we just wrote it in Arabic
* jonathanhindi Arabic and English
<Sensiva> yes it won't hurt, bas mesh hayenfa3o yeb2o wesh we dahr, keda hayob2o wara2teen
<thelinuxer> and i guess we have majority votes not
<Sensiva> wa7da arabic wel tania english
<thelinuxer> mafeesh moshkela fel mawdoo3 dah
<mahmoud> make them in the same paper
<Sensiva> mahmoud hashel el sowar beta3tak ba2a :D
<Sensiva> tayeb arabic-english it is, hanetba3 wensawar feen wezzay?
<Sensiva> bas tasweer 7elw
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: can CECE help us with that ?
<mahmoud> yes i think they will help us
<mahmoud> and they can print all of them
<Sensiva> tayeb plan B if they didn't?
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: they have the needed resources for this
<thelinuxer> as plan B I will go print them myself in been el sarayat
<Sensiva> el wara2a bekam?
<thelinuxer> mesh faker walahi bas i guess 8 Pt.
<mahmoud> you will print them as aword paper
<Sensiva> 8 pt. we tasweer 7elw/
<Sensiva> ?
<mahmoud> or as color posters
<mahmoud> if u make them gray scal in A4 paper
<mahmoud> as wprd file
<thelinuxer> yes gray scale
<mahmoud> it won't cost much
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: aiwa been el sarayat gamdeen awi
<Sensiva> hayel
<mahmoud> and the CECE can handle it i am sure of that
<mgamal> ok
<mgamal> next point
<thelinuxer> ok next
<thelinuxer> registration and feedback forms
<thelinuxer> in our last event we only got feedback from 31 persons
<thelinuxer> it's not really that good for statistics
<thelinuxer> so Sensiva sent us a couple of forms for the registration and feedback
<mgamal> saw em
<jonathanhindi> yes but this mean ano e7na m3rfnash newsall le el nas koolha !
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: i sent emails le kol el nas ely registered
<thelinuxer> anyway this in not the point
<jonathanhindi> ok
<thelinuxer> So we will ask them to fill the registration form before the course begins
<mahmoud> tyb el registration haykon 3ala el net
<thelinuxer> and ask them to fill the feedback form at the end
<mahmoud> walla asna2 el mo7adra
<mahmoud> ?
<thelinuxer> yes
<Sensiva> o.O
<thelinuxer> el lab mesh feeh internet ?
<mahmoud> ok that is great
<mahmoud> i know
<Sensiva> enta te2dar te3mel el mawdo3 da online?
<thelinuxer> yes
<mahmoud> yes we suffered alot
<thelinuxer> google forms
<thelinuxer> bas ana mesh 3aref a create template
<mahmoud> ana shayf en el online not good
<Sensiva> me neither
<jonathanhindi> la2 online is the best
<thelinuxer> ya3ny once it is written and used i can't reuse it again, may be i need more research
<mahmoud> because all of them will come as it is the official
<mahmoud> training of the faculty
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: they will fill the form in the lab
<thelinuxer> during the training, what's the problem with that ?
<wazery> i am sooooooooo sorry for being late
<thelinuxer> hi wazery
<wazery> hi all
<jonathanhindi> mahmoud: the lecturer will say that this is an ubuntu training bring to you by ubunut-EG
<jonathanhindi> Hi Wazery !
<mgamal> hi wazery
<wazery> hi ahmed and jonathan
<mahmoud> ok
<mahmoud> :)
<Sensiva> I prefer it on paper for two reasons, 1- you cannot be so sure if they did submit or not, 2- I don't know if it is easy to populate those data off submitted entries
<thelinuxer> wazery: u forgot mgamal ;)
<Sensiva> hellew wazeery
<mgamal> lol
<mgamal> nm wazery
<wazery> hi gamaaaal
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: the instructor will have assistants in the lab
<wazery> what's going on here?
<thelinuxer> from both our side and CECE's side
<jonathanhindi> Sensiva : I see that online is better because no need for data entry
<thelinuxer> wazery: read the log here
<thelinuxer> http://logs.ubuntu-eu.org/free/2010/06/25/%23ubuntu-eg.html
<wazery> ok
<Sensiva> that's another point I want to discuss about that, I know guys from CECE's are very helpful and supportive, but I don't want to count on them regarding registration and feedback forms
<Sensiva> those forms are really vital to us
<jonathanhindi> Data entry means Time And Volunteers and more
<Sensiva> actually ana 3awez 7atta nestelem el forms de benafsena
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: we can do that, but i don't see much benefit from it el sara7a
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi 3ashan keda ba2ol on papers, el student yemlaha we howa a3ed wel instructor yellemmaha after 5 mins
<thelinuxer> if we make google form we will get automatic statistics and charts .e.tc
<Sensiva> thelinuxer are you sure of that?
<jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: yes and this is the point
<Sensiva> khalas , law google as'hal then online it is, but the instructor has to be strict about that 3ashan el 3eyal mattanneshi
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: yes
<thelinuxer> this is the assistants job
<jonathanhindi> but firstly before we say online or hard copy are you sure that there is a connection in the laps !?
<thelinuxer> the student should find the registration form opened on his PC
<thelinuxer> and he should be instructed to fill it
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: let me check, i will call the CECE guys
<mahmoud> there is no internet in the labs
<jonathanhindi> :S
<mahmoud> but i will talk to ahmed and ask him if they can make it
<jonathanhindi> mahmoud: Please if you can !
<mahmoud> ok i will ask him if they can make internet connection
<mahmoud> but by defualt there is no internet in the labs
<mahmoud> i am sure of that
<Sensiva> tayeb in case makansh feeh internet, netba3ha 3ala wara2 we 7ad mennen yestelem el forms men CECE daily
<jonathanhindi> Ok No Problem
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi enta fi Cairo University?
<jonathanhindi> No
<Sensiva> okay
<jonathanhindi> Sensiva : Business Information Systems Zmalek Helwan university
<Sensiva> yabnel eeh ya 3efreet :D
<Sensiva> homma namo walla eh? ^o)
<jonathanhindi> Dunno
<mahmoud> thelinuxer : are u will ask the CECE guys about the possibilty of making internet connection or ask them myself
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: i asked before if the lab has internet access :D
<thelinuxer> anyway i called ahmed ismael
<thelinuxer> we have no internet access
<jonathanhindi> is there any way to make a form using openoffice and then open office make all the data together on an excel file !?
<thelinuxer> and he said he will try to get us access tomorrow and he is sure he can do it
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: don't know
<thelinuxer> but here is what i think we should do
<mahmoud> ok great
<thelinuxer> we will have printed registration and feedback forms
<thelinuxer> and online version of them
<thelinuxer> the CECE guys will do the data entry part
<thelinuxer> because they will do it anyway
<thelinuxer> so we will have them printed and in digital format also
<Sensiva> tab we leeh CECE? e7na elli 3awzeen el data mesh homma
<jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: Can CECE's make data entries inside Google Forms !?! It Will be The Same For us !!
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: we both need the data
<thelinuxer> not just them
<wazery> howa leh el course le engineering bs ya3ni howa msh momken cs ye7darow??
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: yes that's what they will do
<thelinuxer> wazery: dah tadreeb seefy le electronics department bas
<jonathanhindi> Sensiva: It is an idea of benefit :D because they need to make a summer training with the name of CECE so They Have To Work not only us ya3niii
<Sensiva> mashi I understand, but as far as I know, they didn't hand out much statistics in the last event
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: it's not like we are using them or anything, it's part of their jobs and we can help if we want
<Sensiva> that's why I mentioned earlier we don't need to count on them
<thelinuxer> they provided us with list of emails
<thelinuxer> and i sent the feedback form to this list
<Sensiva> you said 31 only
<jonathanhindi> We Need to Organise Them as we needs
<thelinuxer> yes i only git 31 response
<thelinuxer> but they sent me almost 200 emails
<Sensiva> ahaa
<Sensiva> tayeb, bottom line is it will be printed and published online sa7?
<jonathanhindi> Dont forget that a lot of emails will be filtered as spam
<thelinuxer> yes
<thelinuxer> to both of u :D
<Sensiva> :D
<Sensiva> tayeb did anyone check the forms?
<Sensiva> anything to add?
<jonathanhindi> Sensiva: I Think It Is Good !
<thelinuxer> we will have a meeting with them this week
<thelinuxer> we will update the forms with them
<thelinuxer> so any changes we need in the forms will be done in this meeting
<thelinuxer> ok ?
<Sensiva> kay, anyway I will modify them for that event and make send to the list
<Sensiva> google docs hates arabic
<thelinuxer> begad!??
<jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: I Need To say that our statistics must not be depending on them at all
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: solution ?
<jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: Yes google docs hates arabic
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: u said " I Need To say that our statistics must not be depending on them at all" , what do u propose ?
<jonathanhindi> thelinuxer: ya3nii ana azdy e7nha mesh mfrood ndeilhom our statistics its for ubuntu-eg and ubuntu os
<Sensiva> its okay to share, as long as they won't get it lost
<jonathanhindi> Not for CECE and Cairo University !
<thelinuxer> well we are collaborating in this event
<jonathanhindi> Sensiva: Thats What I mean
<thelinuxer> and u can think it is the other way around barod
<thelinuxer> bardo*
<thelinuxer> it's their event and we are just help and this is their statistics
<thelinuxer> so i guess we should be friendly we 7'alas :D
<jonathanhindi> ok ! :D
<thelinuxer> ok i guess we should move to the last point
<thelinuxer> and the most important one
<thelinuxer> the course preparation
<thelinuxer> here are the points written untill now
<thelinuxer> https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AauVUEKmQFwbZGQ3cnFoOGdfMzdjcTl0Yzhnag&hl=en
<thelinuxer> we have gr8 points
<thelinuxer> we just need to organize them in 2 sessions
<thelinuxer> suitable for the 2 hrs constrain
<Sensiva> I will simulate the session and assign duration, then a2assem, bas lazem point details el awel :D
<Sensiva> I will do the points I know its details
<thelinuxer> cool
<thelinuxer> we just need to be organized
<thelinuxer> 3ashan if u needed help u should find it quickly
<jonathanhindi> I Like The Points !
<thelinuxer> So Sensiva what kind of help do u need ?
<jonathanhindi> I Need To Suggest Something but after we finish this point please don't forget
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: pl
<thelinuxer> ok*
<Sensiva> I can prepare the contents for some points, I will prefix them now with my nick
<thelinuxer> and ...
<jonathanhindi> Sorry Can we prepare the content on the same file please i will tell you later why !
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: that
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: that's what we will do isA
<jonathanhindi> ok
<jonathanhindi> Good Good Good
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: we need u to lead the content preparation project
<thelinuxer> so assign tasks to team members
<thelinuxer> do whatever u want
<thelinuxer> cause we really need this content to be ready by monday or tuesday msalan
<Sensiva> maho ana ma3rafsh meen momken ye3mel eh
<jonathanhindi> Ask As !!!
<mahmoud> :D
<jonathanhindi> Us **
<Sensiva> some one is locking the document for editing
<Sensiva> and I don't know who
<wazery> this is what i wait for :D
<thelinuxer> locking!
<thelinuxer> we should all be able to edit it at the same time!
<Sensiva> thelinuxer please make that document shared in a why a sign in is mandatory
<Sensiva> its not literally locked, kol magi a3mel save ye2olli another one is doing changes that conflicts bla bla bla
<thelinuxer> try again keda
<thelinuxer> and i can share it ma3a email accounts mo3ayana law 3ayez
<jonathanhindi> ana el kont ba3mil edit
<jonathanhindi> :D
<Sensiva> no make it available for all, just khali el sign in enabled 3ashan ab2a 3aref meen bye3mel eh a2om mekallemo aw mestanneh
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: done
<thelinuxer> check it keda
<thelinuxer> try editing without signing in
<jonathanhindi> mynfa3sh
<Sensiva> its not allowing me to save aslan now while I am signed in
<Sensiva> :D
<thelinuxer> !!!!
<jonathanhindi> Am Signed in and can't edit now asllan :D
<Sensiva> it says you don't have permission to save
<thelinuxer> that's strange
<wazery> the same for me
<Sensiva> thelinuxer change the sharing settings to, visibility : any one with a link
<thelinuxer> here is what i did
<Sensiva> and edit acess : uncheck the box
<thelinuxer> share-> See who has access
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: where is that ?
<thelinuxer> ok
<Sensiva> open the document , on the top of the page, right next to its title, you will find a link to set the privacy settings
<thelinuxer> i guess it should work now
<jonathanhindi> Working !!!
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: bos if i chose this option
<thelinuxer> everyone will be able to edit the document without signing in
<wazery> yes it woeks
<wazery> works*
<Sensiva> thelinuxer yes uncheck it ba2a
<Sensiva> it works for me too
<thelinuxer> unchecking it denies u access
<thelinuxer> that's what happened the first time
<thelinuxer> i went to share-> See who has access
<Sensiva> I prefixed the points with my nick, points prefixed with (Sensiva,revision) needs to be revised by someone
<mahmoud> check this plz
<mahmoud> all of u must check these plz
<mahmoud> http://unimasr.com/community/viewtopic.php?f=783&p=811698#p811698
<thelinuxer> and when i chose "let me view this item without signing in"
<thelinuxer> it unchecked that checkbox and denied u access
<Sensiva> o.O
<thelinuxer> i guess we should behave and edit that document while we are signed in
<Sensiva> lol
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: :D
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: thanx for the link, i am not sure about these time slots el sara7a
<thelinuxer> el mohem let try to finish this meeting
<jonathanhindi> ok
<thelinuxer> so for the content preparation
<mahmoud> la be sure
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: do u agree to lead in this part ?
<mahmoud> who write this is the CECE guys
<Sensiva> thelinuxer I don't think I can
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: this is completely different from what they told me in person so we need to verify with them
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: what help do u need ? I think u made a gr8 effort until now
<mahmoud> ok
<mahmoud> :)
<Sensiva> thelinuxer some points should be assigned to others
<Sensiva> check the document now keda, any point isn't prefixed with my nick should be assigned to someone else
<thelinuxer> lets all check the document
<Sensiva> mahmoud wazery jonathanhindi can you prepare contents for those points?
<Sensiva> mgamal sabna we geri ya reggala
<Sensiva> \o/
<wazery> :(
<wazery> mahmoud: yes
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: aslo mesh fe cairo
<thelinuxer> we el mafrood 7aysafer delwa2ty
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: the rest of the points mesh keteer awi keda ;)
<thelinuxer> ya 3am 7'adetny
<thelinuxer> ok i will put them at the end of the list
<Sensiva> mashi bas lazem yet3emlo
<mahmoud> el link plz
<Sensiva> el openoffice mohemma geddan
<thelinuxer> i guess we should remove the IDE and compiling thing
<thelinuxer> that's too advanced
<jonathanhindi> yes
<thelinuxer> it's in the channel topic
<thelinuxer> also the printers and scanners
<thelinuxer> we won't have access to this kind of hardware in the lab
<thelinuxer> so i will remove it
<Sensiva> okay
<Sensiva> mahmoud https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AauVUEKmQFwbZGQ3cnFoOGdfMzdjcTl0Yzhnag&hl=en
<thelinuxer> we have six points left
<thelinuxer> home directory
<mahmoud> i caan take care of gimp and openoffice
<thelinuxer> i don't know if this is important ?
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: cool
<mahmoud> but still i will travel at 1 july
<Sensiva> home directory is important, it won't take few minutes aslan
<mahmoud> so i won't attend all the course
<thelinuxer> brief intro about other environments, we have a presentation from fawzy and mahmoud that we can use
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: what do u want to say about it :D ?
<Sensiva> mahmoud we need openoffice only, mabroook ... enta elli hat7addar el mo7tawa beta3ha
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: np we are talking about preparation
<mahmoud> ok that is good ana we fawzy can handle it isA
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: i will write ur name beside it delwa2ty
<wazery> i can do Sudo and gksudo
<mahmoud> ok
<thelinuxer> wazery: cool
<Sensiva> thelinuxer like masalan what is the content of that folder, and its analogue with documents and setting fel windows
<thelinuxer> Internet and networks, how to configure LAN, WiFi, troubleshoot, share directories
<mahmoud> tyb i wanna ask
<thelinuxer> mahmoud:shoot
<Sensiva> wazery would you please prefix that item with your name?
<mahmoud> what u mean by prepare the content
<thelinuxer> i did that already
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, is the meeting taking place now ?
<mahmoud> as power point ya3ny
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: hi bahaa2008 yes it is
<thelinuxer> we started 2 hrs ago :D
<wazery> yes thelinuxer did it
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, i was following some news :)
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: we mean prepare what we will say about it
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 basha, sho3let alex el zahabeya
<thelinuxer> and if u can create the slides too that will be good
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: bahaa2008 lo
<thelinuxer> lol
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, bash
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 can you create educational contents about internet connectivity in ubuntu and troubleshooting?
<mahmoud> i know but u wanna it as presentation file
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, easy
<mahmoud> or some headlines
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: yes please
<thelinuxer> presentation file will be good
<mahmoud> ok i will work on it isA
<thelinuxer> but everyone should follow Sensiva's lead
<thelinuxer> 3ashan el session time we keda
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 mabrook ya wa7sh yabo sedr wase3 , this point has been assigned to you it should be ready before the 1st of July
<mahmoud> are there any time limitation on it ,thelinuxer
<Sensiva> (bahaa2008) * Internet and networks, how to configure LAN, WiFi, troubleshoot, share directories
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: yes of course
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, cli or gui ?
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: gui
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 gui is prefered
<thelinuxer> dah course intro
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, easy with bosa :D
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 if you can do it cli not gui, zaker gui weshra7 gui
<Sensiva> hayel geddan
<Sensiva> :D
<thelinuxer> lol
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, i'm in alex
<thelinuxer> tayeb i will add ur name to the document
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, i can give you presentation only no more
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 create your documents here https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AauVUEKmQFwbZGQ3cnFoOGdfMzdjcTl0Yzhnag&hl=en
<Sensiva> mesh fahem ya3ni eh I am in Alex?
<Sensiva> betkhawefni?
<thelinuxer> wazery: i assigned this point to u too
<thelinuxer> Users and root (what can users do, and why it has limited privilages than root)
<thelinuxer> as it is related to sudo and gksudo
<mahmoud> tyb where we no the time limitation on each piont
<thelinuxer> that
<mahmoud> to prepare a suitable content
<thelinuxer> that's y i am saying u follow Sensiva's lead
<wazery> thelinuxer: ok
<bahaa2008> Sensiva, <Sensiva> bahaa2008 if you can do it cli not gui, zaker gui weshra7 gui
<thelinuxer> he will give u the time constraints
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: beyhazar :D
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: keda kolo tamam ?
<Sensiva> mahmoud ekteb list of points, we massel akennak bet2olha fel beet we shoof hatakhod kam de2e2a wekteb el wa2t da gamb el point beta3tak fel document elli 3ala google
<thelinuxer> do u need anything else ?
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: so man do u agree to lead this part walla la2 ?
<Sensiva> lol
<Sensiva> mashi
<Sensiva> iLead
<Sensiva> :D
<thelinuxer> lol
<thelinuxer> cool
<thelinuxer> tab guys everyone responsible for a part in the content should report to Sensiva directly or on the mailing list
<thelinuxer> agree ?
<wazery> yes
<thelinuxer> howa jonathanhindi feen :D ?
<jonathanhindi> here
<thelinuxer> aslak saket
<thelinuxer> mesh 3waydak
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: do u agree ?
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi kan fe 7aga 3awez tedefha
<jonathanhindi> ma3llesh m3andish haga as3dkoom fieh el sra7a !!
<jonathanhindi> yes
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi eh heya?
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, sudo adduser Sensiva
<mahmoud> agree :)
<Sensiva> ^_^
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: huh ! :D
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, sudo addgroup admins
<bahaa2008> and add him to the group
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: we will isA
<Sensiva> tayeb we need to get this finished by the 1st of July
<thelinuxer> nope
<thelinuxer> we need it finished before that
<bahaa2008> and give him the permissions
<thelinuxer> 3ashan el meeting ma3a el nas
<bahaa2008> thelinuxer, it's that easy
<Sensiva> el meeting emta?
<Sensiva> yom kam?
<thelinuxer> we need to decide
<thelinuxer> wa2t mat7'alas
<thelinuxer> ya3ny we need to make it anytime this week
<Sensiva> maho keda hankhallas yom 3 july el sob7
<Sensiva> lazem netzene2 bema3ad
<jonathanhindi> ABout This Course we need to prepare it in a way that we can make from it a handbook small one ya3nii and sell it to the students if they want as the course materials it will work as a fund raising for our team secondly also this book will be published on our site for el mesh 3aizien ydf3o and brdo 3aizin yb2a fih el course dah online with all the presentation on our site !!?
<wazery> jonathanhindi: great
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi nice idea
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: np bas i guess we can't create a book in the remaining time
<thelinuxer> we can create it for the future events
<thelinuxer> wala eih ?
<Sensiva> he is saying to create it in that way
<Sensiva> so we can make that book later on
<Sensiva> anyway this is a very brief course
<thelinuxer> ok cool
<jonathanhindi> Sensiva: Yes I mean that
<thelinuxer> tayeb can we get this done by next monday ?
<thelinuxer> ento nemto koloko delwa2ty :D
<jonathanhindi> I mean it will work as a strat guid !
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 jonathanhindi mahmoud wazery you might find that page helpful in creating the contents
<Sensiva> http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid
<wazery> these 2 books are so good ... http://ahmed-abouzaid.blogspot.com/2008/12/blog-post_8169.html, http://ahmed-abouzaid.blogspot.com/2009/11/blog-post_4842.html
<thelinuxer> ha ya shabab u didn't answer me
<jonathanhindi> start guide **
<thelinuxer> mahmoud Sensiva wazery bahaa2008 : can we get this done by monday ?
<wazery> isA
<mahmoud> i will try :)
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: i will try deh mesh 3agbany
<Sensiva> I might be late, 3andi lokket points add keda
<thelinuxer> isA 2a2balha i will try la2 :P
<mahmoud> asl i have an exam on monday
<Sensiva> but it won't be later than 30 July insha2allah
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: ah ok
<mahmoud> but i will talk to fawzy
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: lol
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: gameel
<mahmoud> to prepare them before this time isA
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: u have a big load ana 3aref
<thelinuxer> bas adaha ya basha
<Sensiva> :D
<Sensiva> labbesni el 3emma ya wad
<Sensiva> lol
<thelinuxer> lol
<Sensiva> tab eh home directory khalas etnasa?
<jonathanhindi> 3ashn keda ana kont b2wll n5liiey kool el content in the same document !
<thelinuxer> ana mesh metefe2 ma3ak !
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi maheya keda
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: yes it should be in the same document
<jonathanhindi> Ok 3ashn El Book E Mean ya3ni !
<thelinuxer> sorry i told mahmoud to create presentation file
<thelinuxer> mesh moshkela awi el home
<thelinuxer> ana bas neseet enta kont 2olt eih 3anaha
<Sensiva> tayeb el presenter hayesta3mel eh fel presentation?
<mahmoud> the presentation templat
<mahmoud> will be the same
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: slides
<mahmoud> wala we will use same template
<thelinuxer> we momken law feeh example live men el desktop beta3o
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: what is ur question again ?
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: we will have the course in 1 or 2 presentation files
<mahmoud> the template of the presentation or the slides will be the same of all us
<Sensiva> howa asdo hanesta3mel template mo3ayana?
<mahmoud> or every one will choose what he want
<thelinuxer> aiwa tab3an
<thelinuxer> howa aslan we will have just 2 speakers keda keda
<thelinuxer> both of them should use the same presentation
<thelinuxer> that presentation will be created from the content that all of u will create isA
<Sensiva> use HumanUbuntu template
<mahmoud> bos i will make the presentation file and send it to u
<Sensiva> hatla2eha fel open office
<mahmoud> that is what i know till now
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: no that's not right
<thelinuxer> mahmoud: write the content in the google document
<mahmoud> and i will use the ubuntu glossy template isA
<thelinuxer> gama3a lets get organized
<thelinuxer> we agreed to write everything in the same document
<thelinuxer> then we will create the slides, right ?
<Sensiva> yeah
<mahmoud> ok
<thelinuxer> tayeb gameel awi el kalam dah
<thelinuxer> so we have a deadline for the content preparation
<thelinuxer> next monday isA
<wazery> isA
<thelinuxer> bas Sensiva will take a little bit more
<thelinuxer> ok cool
<Sensiva> bahaa2008 mahmoud wazery please simulate your points after creation and add the estimated time in the top of the document
<jonathanhindi> Can i ask a question ?! hwa el mwa3id el sa3a kam !?
<Sensiva> fel points list
<thelinuxer> our slot is from 7-9 PM
<wazery> Sensive: i cant understand ?
<jonathanhindi> Tab hwo can i help b2a fe el organising
<jonathanhindi> how **
<thelinuxer> the time slot given for us is from 7-9 PM
<Sensiva> wazery ya3ni massel el presentation at home, we shoof hatakhod wa2t add eh we ektebo gamb el point beta3tak fel list of points elli fe awel el document di https://docs.google.com/Doc?docid=0AauVUEKmQFwbZGQ3cnFoOGdfMzdjcTl0Yzhnag&hl=en
<wazery> Sensiva: OK
<Sensiva> thelinuxer four instructors in parallel 7-9?
<thelinuxer> and yes that's what i was going to add. the rest of us can come and help in the labs.
<thelinuxer> no 2
<thelinuxer> as we said before 2 from CECE side will start @ 5 PM
<thelinuxer> and 2 from our side will start 7 PM
<Sensiva> ah mashi
<thelinuxer> ok of course we should all come with our ubuntu-eg T-Shirts for the sake of publicity
<wazery> :D
<Sensiva> :D
<Sensiva> el 3ohda!
<Sensiva> lol
<thelinuxer> :D
<thelinuxer> Sensiva: looooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooool
<Sensiva> :D:D:D
<jonathanhindi> CECE are going to give Ubuntu Courses ?!! mesh fahim ya3niii
<thelinuxer> jonathanhindi: aiwa eih el moshkela ?
<Sensiva> el walad dammo 7ami awi
<thelinuxer> lol
<thelinuxer> they will give the students the course that we will prepare isA
<thelinuxer> collaboration ya man
<Sensiva> jonathanhindi they will help us spread the word
<jonathanhindi> Ok Eshta :D
<jonathanhindi> Ana M2wlltesh Haga ! :D
<thelinuxer> tayeb i have nothing more to add
<thelinuxer> anyone want to add anything ?
<Sensiva> is bahaa2008 subscribed to out list?
<Sensiva> our*
<jonathanhindi> for me no
<thelinuxer> i guess he is
<thelinuxer> bahaa2008: can u please answer Sensiva's question ?
<thelinuxer> i guess he is away
<thelinuxer> tayeb
<thelinuxer> this meeting is adjourned :D

</pre>
