{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Erich Eickmeyer, apply for upload rights for Master of the Universe (MOTU)'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Erich Eickmeyer
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~eeickmeyer|eeickmeyer]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[..-..-Eickmeyer|Eickmeyer]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>>
I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.
* I'd like to keep certain projects up-to-date.

== Who I am ==
I'm a multimedia professional who worked as an Audio/Video/Lighting engineer with some photography on the side. As you can imagine, Ubuntu Studio is my flavor of choice. I've been leading Ubuntu Studio for nearly 3 years and am employed under contract with MindShare Management as the manager of Packaging and User Experience for the Kubuntu Focus series of laptops.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My contributions to Ubuntu Studio started in March of 2018 when Set Hallstrom and Ross Gammon put out a call to form a council in order to sustain Ubuntu Studio, which had received very little, if any, attention since 2016. I came onboard and ran the meetings and presented ideas to enhance the flavor, which led to a renaissance and revitalization for the flavor that is apparent in the work that went into 18.10, the retheming that went into 19.04, and the change of desktop environment to KDE Plasma for 20.10 onward. I have also provided direction and ideas for the flavor to move forward.

Additionally, as of November, I have become one of the newest members of the Ubuntu Community Council.

I would like to continue to get better and better at packaging. I keep learning new things all the time, and if I have an issue I'm always quick to ask for help rather than try to figure it out by myself, even though I'll only do that after I've exhausted research options.

== My involvement ==
'''<nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Erich+Eickmeyer&sponsoree_search=name|My Sponsors]]</nowiki>'''
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* '''carla''' - Packaged Carla, originally from the KXStudio project, with help from the upstream developer.
* '''grub2-themes-ubuntustudio''' - Forked Ubuntu MATE's grub theme into a bootloader theme for Ubuntu Studio.
* '''ubuntustudio-controls''' - Helped with bugfixes and the vision for this utility.
* '''ubuntustudio-default-settings''' - Added metapackages for adding certain settings to other Ubuntu flavors to benefit from Ubuntu Studio.
* '''ubuntustudio-icon-theme''' - Changed the icon theme to base from Papirus in an effort to modernize the Ubuntu Studio theme.
* '''ubuntustudio-installer''' - Together with Len Ovens, added additional functionality to make it a tool to use on flavors other than Ubuntu Studio for the purpose of adding Ubuntu Studio as a toolkit to other official flavors.
* '''ubuntustudio-look''' - Modernized Ubuntu Studio's default theme to be Materia, eliminating the need to maintain the Numix Blue theme, reducing workload on the Ubuntu Studio team. Also added custom wallpaper for the Disco release.
* '''ubuntustudio-menu''' - Fixed some installed applications that weren't showing, promoted Ubuntu Studio Controls to an area of prominence.
* '''lsp-plugins''' - Added 91 audio plugins to Ubuntu for Ubuntu Studio with this project. Has since been upstreamed into Debian.
* '''dpf-plugins''' - Added several audio plugins from the KXStudio project to Ubuntu Studio
* '''raysession''' - Found an audio session handler to replace the LADI tools and LADI Session Handler (a dead project)
* '''ardour''' - With the help of the upstream Ardour developers, was able to upgrade the waf source used and patch the wscripts to build using python 3.
* '''avldrums.lv2''' - Added a drum synthesizer plugin
* '''hydrogen''' - Upgraded existing package to Qt5 version (1.0.0-beta2)
* '''materia-gtk-theme''' - worked with developer to get theme compatible with Ubiquity installer
* '''agordejo''' - A front-end for Non/New-Session-Manager, has better backing from the Linux audio community for session management
* '''materia-kde''' - Packaged KDE version of Materia theme in use by Ubuntu Studio since 19.04.
* Migrated Ubuntu Studio to use KDE Plasma as desktop environment.

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''
* '''Ubuntu Studio''' - worked with Len Ovens (OvenWerks), Ross Gammon (Rosco2), Eylul Dogruel (eylul), Krytarik Raido (krytarik/kryten/krycek), Thomas Ward (teward). Good team overall, has common vision for success. 
* '''Carla''' - worked with the upstream developer, Filipe Caleho (FalkTX) on getting Carla packaged and uploaded to Ubuntu.
* '''lsp-plugins''' - Worked with the upstream developer to get 91 audio plugins included in Ubuntu and its installation standardized (files where they belong). Since upstreamed into Debian.
* '''dpf-plugins''' - Packaged even more audio plugins
* '''raysession''' - Packaged a replacement for the outdated LADI Session Handler included in Ubuntu Studio for many years, now unmaintained and suffering from bitrot.
* '''ardour''' - With the help of the upstream Ardour developers, was able to upgrade the waf source used and patch the wscripts to build using python 3.
* '''hydrogen''' - With the help of Rik Mills, was able to get hydrogen upgraded to 1.0.0-beta2 in an effort to eliminate Qt4 from the archive

=== Things I could do better ===

* Packaging procedure can always use improvement, and I'm always updating my workflow as I figure out new ways of doing things.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Continue in involvement in Ubuntu Studio and help with Kubuntu as well.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

* I love Ubuntu and Ubuntu Studio! However, the Archive Admins are in desperate need of help and don't seem to have enough time to review new packages. I'd like to see this change for the sake of continued community involvement and to relieve stress on the archive admins.

----
== Testimonials ==

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

==== Valorie Zimmerman, Kubuntu Council ====
What I love about working with Erich is that he is always upbeat, always working to improve, always willing to help. I first met him when he was working with Jupiter Radio, then at LinuxFest Northwest, working to bring Ubuntu Studio to the world, and now in KDE and Kubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> 
==== Len Ovens, Ubuntu Studio Developer ====
Attention to detail would describe my first impression of Erich. He has kept Ubuntu Studio alive more than anyone else I think, so dedicated as well. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:len-ovenwerks]]</nowiki>

==== Rick Timmis, Kubuntu Council ====
I have had the opportunity to work closely with Erich more and more over the last year. He is consistent, professional and very dedicated to driving Ubuntu Studio forward. I think the recent improvements in Ubuntu Studio are as a result of the passion and energy that Erich brings to the project. It is a real pleasure to be working closely with Erich finding synergies across our respective Ubuntu Flavours.  --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome: rick-timmis]]</nowiki> 
==== Michael Mikowski, Founder, MindShareManagement Inc. ====
We have been so blessed to have Erich on the Kubuntu Focus team. His attention to detail, empathy for user experience, and ability to get things done has helped improve the product almost immediately. His commitment to proper packaging practice and positive communication with other contributors has already helped upstream fixes to Mate-Optimus. And he is pursuing upstreaming almost all other improvements to Kubuntu, Ubuntu Studio, Ubuntu, and Debian. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kfocus]]</nowiki> 
==== Ross Gammon, Ubuntu Studio Developer and Debian Developer ====
Since Erich joined the Ubuntu Studio council, Ubuntu Studio has gone from a flavour trying to stay alive, to a flourishing flavour with new developments and applications being added all the time. Erich's knowledge of the Linux Audio ecosystem is excellent and he has built up a strong network to help us improve Ubuntu Studio. Although I have not been asked to sponsor any of his packages, I have been watching from the sidelines, and Erich has been extremely active with uploading packages in Ubuntu. I have no doubt that by now he has the necessary skills and knowledge of the Ubuntu packaging process to have permission to upload to the whole of the Ubuntu Universe. My wish is that Erich and I can also begin to sponsor newcomers to Ubuntu Studio, expanding the team and ensuring that Ubuntu Studio exists long into the future! --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome: rosco2]]</nowiki> 
==== Rik Mills, Kubuntu Developer, Kubuntu Council, and MOTU. ====

When I have had cause to work with or interact with Erich, he has always been helpful and competent in everything he has done. When Ubuntu Studio decided to switch to using the KDE desktop, I was prepared for many questions; however with few questions, Erich quietly and with a sure hand put together with his team an excellent implementation, with customised settings, theming etc. The same focus and competence can be seen in his preparation of new sources and updates for sponsorship, so I have no doubt that granting of MOTU upload rights is the correct next step in his journey. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rikmills]]</nowiki> 
----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

=== Thomas Ward (~teward) ===
==== General feedback ====

Since I personally received my Core Dev, I've been working with the Studio team as one of their designated uploaders for things that need special privileges (NEW for instance) and for cases where I'm around or things need expedited.

As a result, I've uploaded at least 10 or more packages over numerous occasions for the Studio team and expediting processing when necessary.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''

There's quite a lot to list, so I'll leave you the direct link: <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Thomas+Ward&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Erich+Eickmeyer&sponsoree_search=name|Sponsored Packages]]</nowiki>

In numerous cases I've worked with Erich on both fixing builds (and contributing to Studio on that front) while also sponsoring quite a lot of NEW packages and updates.

In each and every case, there's been minor issues here or there, and in some cases larger issues with packaging that needed addressed.  In each of those cases, Erich has been more than willing to work with me and others and fix those issues as they cropped up.  Erich has also been more than willing to engage in respectful discourse when faced with issues.

Overall, I strongly recommend that Erich be granted MOTU rights, with a stipulation that where he's unsure he should continue to consult with myself or other developers for guidance where needed.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

For the most part, when packaging NEW packages, Erich has been very good with packaging and working on fixing things as we indicated issues.

However, a primary area of concern is with NEW packages being worked on by Erich and there still being Copyright issues or issues with debian WATCH files.  Erich should focus his efforts on better attention to those issues and how to fix them where he can.

However, those issues do not preclude them from getting MOTU privileges.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
