{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


----
CategoryHomepage

=== Christian Einfeldt ===

* Name: Christian Einfeldt
* Location: San Francisco, CA, USA
* Email: einfeldt ~at~ gmail com
* Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~einfeldt
* Twitter: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/einfeldt|einfeldt]]</nowiki>
* Digital Tipping Point homepage website: <nowiki>[[http://digitaltippingpoint.com]]</nowiki>
* Digital Tipping Point video archive: <nowiki>[[http://archive.org/details/digitaltippingpoint]]</nowiki>

-----

==== About ====
I am a relatively simple end user who likes to help other simple end users make the move to GNU-Linux.  I was introduced to Free Open Source Software (FOSS) in late 2000 when I met a systems administrator named Holden Aust in the building where I was working at the time.  I was concerned about viruses infecting my Microsoft Windows 98 computer.  I asked Holden what he thought the best solution would be.  He said, "Linux".  He built a computer for me out of parts that I had purchased on the Internet and installed SuSE Linux on it.

Inspired by his generosity, I wanted a way to give back to the FOSS community.  I got the wild idea of making a documentary movie about FOSS using the same production methods used to make FOSS: distributed production of forkable modules posted to the Internet.  I have since traveled to 6 nations and 3 continents to videotape interview with leading FOSS developers, business leaders, and political leaders about how FOSS is changing global culture.  One hundred hours of this footage is now available on the <nowiki>[[http://archive.org/details/digitaltippingpoint|Internet Archives Digital Tipping Point Video Collection]]</nowiki> (IA DTP VC) under a Creative Commons Attribute-Share Alike license. 

In December 2006, I met Jonathan Grindstaff, a software developer who offered to help with the Digital Tipping Point project.  Jonathan eventually wrote software that helps capture, compress and upload video to the <nowiki>[[http://archive.org/details/digitaltippingpoint|Internet Archives Digital Tipping Point Video Collection]]</nowiki>.  Jonathan's OS of choice was Ubuntu.  I soon moved all of my machines to Ubuntu, simply because I need to be on the same system as my lead FOSS guru.  Since Jonathan had become my lead FOSS guru, I chose Ubuntu.

Now, I tend to recommend Ubuntu to newbies, and I install Ubuntu on their computers, because the community support and documentation are so good.  I also like the Ubuntu emphasis on the newbie desktop, as opposed to say Gentoo, which emphasized user customization.  I tend to use GNOME as the default window manager, but I always download lots of KDE apps, such as Konqueror, which I absolutely love.  

I think that it is important to outreach to users whose distro choices are not Ubuntu.  I believe that the GNU-Linux community must do all that it can to prevent the kind of balkanization and mistrust that led to the Unix wars and Microsoft's subsequent ascendancy and monopoly.  

I do not believe that Microsoft is "just another company".  Nor do I believe that Microsoft is to be trusted.  I believe that while it is understandable that some companies enter into business deals with Microsoft, I think that we need to think carefully about the extent to which individual transactions with Microsoft as a partner would tend to detract from sharing FOSS code with others. I believe that Microsoft is highly motivated and focused on extending, embracing, and extinguishing our ability to create companies and earn livelihoods using FOSS.  Most companies that have partnered with Microsoft have lost market capitalization and have declined in the long term, and their "partnerships" with Microsoft have contributed heavily to that loss of shareholder value. 

At the same time, Microsoft has been able to fragment the FOSS community to a certain degree merely by partnering with some individuals, projects and companies, which then provokes outrage among other members of our community toward the former.  We end up shouting at one another, rather than building our community.  The main focus of my FOSS advocacy, therefore, is aimed at building our community, rather than engendering disdain for Microsoft.

==== Ubuntu Contributions ====

Summary: I have been active supporting two public schools in San Francisco with Ubuntu and Xubuntu.  I also install Ubuntu / Xubuntu on computers for kids' homes, and for my neighbors in San Francisco. I am also producing a documentary movie, called the Digital Tipping Point, about how FOSS is changing global culture. 

Detailed: 
I have been volunteering with the <nowiki>[[http://web.archive.org/web/20080102032141/http://www.sfbayacademy.org/|KIPP San Francisco Bay Academy]]</nowiki> public middle school since May 2004 and <nowiki>[[http://www.creativeartscharter.org/|Creative Arts Charter Sschool]]</nowiki> (CACS) since August 2009 with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~grantbow|Grant Bowman]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.partimus.org/|Partimus]]</nowiki> and others preparing additional P4 and P3 Ubuntu and Xubuntu machines for use by students locally and in Mexico through <nowiki>[[http://www.kidsoncomputers.org/]]</nowiki>.  I also started a FOSS outreach program to support one of San Francisco's premier charities to the poor, <nowiki>[[http://www.stanthonysf.org|St. Anthony's]]</nowiki>, in providing some of their clients with Ubuntu machines, and in installing Ubuntu virtualized on their computer lab.  I almost always carry a Ubuntu / Xubuntu LiveCD with me for giving away on the fly to the occasional newbie who might need it.  (I get these CDs from Grant Bowman, so many thanks to Grant for that!) 

==== Present & Future Goals ====
My primary focus in FOSS volunteering is two-fold: on completing the Digital Tipping Point documentary, and on working with Partimus to expand the scope of their outreach to public schools. 

==== Membership ====

What's all this about Ubuntu Members?  Special recognition is given to Ubuntu contributors who have demonstrated significant and sustained effort in one or more ways. While many California Team members have made contributions, Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/processes/newmember|Members]]</nowiki> have also documented these efforts in an <nowiki>[[Membership|application]]</nowiki> (like this wiki page) and appeared via IRC before a governing board for approval which lasts for two years and may be renewed. Ubuntu Members (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|519]]</nowiki> world wide at present) play a role in the governance of Ubuntu by voting to confirm new appointments to the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil|Community Council]]</nowiki>.

==== Testimonials ====

Christian has been working daily to support two schools (teachers and students) near his home for years.  This kind of dedication and commitment are rare.  His projects have directly and indirectly contributed to the computing skills of hundreds of "overshot customers."  It has been a pleasure working with Christian's in his ongoing collaboration projects that introduce Ubuntu to communities in helpful and friendly environments. I whole heartedly support Christian's appointment as an Ubuntu Member. <nowiki>[[Grantbow|GrantBowman]]</nowiki>
