{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#FAFAC8; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Name''':
| Eivar Montenegro
|-
| '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~e.mont01/|eivar]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}

=== About Me ===
I am a graduate of the Technological University of Panama (UTP).

I love programming, and my favorite languages are Java, Python and Javascript.
I enjoy learning new things every day and I like technology, especially mobile phones.

=== My Involvement ===

I discovered GNU/Linux and Ubuntu in 2007, thanks to my good friend <nowiki>[[http://ahioros.net|Ahioros]]</nowiki>. At the end of that year I attended the first FLISOL organized in Panama and soon I joined the movement to promote free software in Panama.

In 2008 I was invited by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mayeco|mayeco]]</nowiki> to join the newly established community Ubuntu-pa.
I've been supporting and helping with the organization of activities of the community especially of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/PanamaTeam|LoCo Team Panamá]]</nowiki>.

=== Team Participation ===
* Ubuntu Centroamerica
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/PanamaTeam|Ubuntu Panamá]]</nowiki>

=== My Vision ===

* Become an official member of Ubuntu.
* Ensure the approval of the PanamaTeam.
* Promote the philosophy of Free Software in my country.
* Promote cooperation between the various communities in Panama and Central America.
* Develop or contribute to the development of some free software.
