{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

Linux user since April 2007, Mandrake to Mandriva and Ubuntu user since May 2007. I joined '''Ubuntu-tn''' after a year as regular member then on <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tn/2011-August/010414.html|August 2011]]</nowiki>, I joined the provisional team to become the events team coordinator.

On <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tn/2012-April/011643.html|April 2012]]</nowiki> the latter has been confirmed during an '''Ubuntu-tn''' physical meeting.

On February 7, 2014 I was <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-02-06-22.05.html|approved]]</nowiki> as an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Official Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> during an irc <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2014/02/06/%23ubuntu-meeting.html|meeting]]</nowiki> with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-membership-board|Ubuntu Membership Board]]</nowiki>

My main goal is to promote Ubuntu and FOSS in Tunisia, with a focus on Tunisian universities.

Being an active member in LoCo helped me to improve my skills and meet awesome people, who later on became dear friends.

I also found my present job (SysAdmin) thanks to a fellow '''Ubuntu-tn''' member.

=== Contact details ===
* '''irc.freenode.org:''' elacheche_anis '''(''' Some times I use multiple nicknames, ubuntiste-msakni & elacheche are me too ''')'''
* '''Email:''' elacheche [AT] ubuntu [DOT] com
* '''Launchpad profile:''' https://launchpad.net/~elacheche
* '''Linkedin:''' https://tn.linkedin.com/in/elacheche/
* '''Blog:''' http://ubuntiste-msakni.legtux.org/

=== Contributions ===
==== Ubuntu-tn ====
* Events Team coordinator since <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-tn/2011-August/010414.html|August 2011]]</nowiki>.
* Administrator of Ubuntu-tn Management Committee team in Launchpad. This team is reserved to the members of the elected Loco Team Management Committee.
* Administrator of ubuntu-tn-users team in Launchpad. This team is open for all Tunisian ubuntu users.
* I actively participated to mounting the ubuntu Tunisian local community with my presence in the irc channel, advertising the team in other FOSS Tunisian teams and clubs, support new users of Ubuntu in our FB groupe and page.
* I was also present during many <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TunisianTeam/Events|events]]</nowiki> which I helped during the preparations:
** ISET Jendouba Even: 11/03/2017
** [2014 - 2017]: I should add this later
** Ubuntu Global Jam 14.04 ~ ISET Mahdia: 04-06/04/2014
** ISSAT Sousse Event: 22/02/2014
** Education Freedom Day Tunisia 14.01 ~ Monastir: 19/01/2014
** Ubuntu & Drupal install day 13.11 ~ City Of Sciences Tunis: 16/11/2013
** Software Freedom Day 12.10: 27/10/2013
** GNU 30 ~ ESPRIT Tunis: 28-29/09/2013
** Ubuntu Global Jam Monastir 13.03: 01-03/03/2013
** Software Freedom Day 12.09: 15/09/2012
** TIME UNIVERSITÉ 12.04 ~ Tunis: 21/04/2012
** Nawaat Hackerspace physical meeting 12.01: 29/01/2012
** École nationale d'ingénieurs de Gabès 11.11: 19-20/11/2011
** Software Freedom Day 11.09: 17/09/2011
** Ubuntu Global Jam Sousse 11.09: 02-04/09/2011
** ISSAT Sousse physical meeting 11.07: 16/07/2011
** TYPO3 presentation M'saken 11.07: 06/07/2011
** ISIT'COM Hammam Sousse 11.04: 16/04/2011
** ISIM Monastir 10.10: 23/10/2010
** École Polytechnique Privée de Sousse 10.04: 17/04/2010
** Institut Supérieur des Sciences Appliquées et de Technologie de Sousse (ISSATSo) 10.03: 05/03/2010

==== Others ====
I was also present during other events organized by Tunisian communities and associations

'''Clibre.tn'''
* Open Data Day ~ #ODD2014: 22/02/2014
* Migration vers le Logiciel Libre ~ Quelques projets pilotes: 13/12/2013
* meshSayada: 7-8/11/2013 & 14-15/11/2013

'''Drupal Tunisia'''
** Ubuntu & Drupal install day 13.11: 16/11/2013

'''Social Media Club Tunisia'''
* Blogging & Soccial Media Event ~ Sousse: 12/01/2013

'''Wikipedia Tunisia'''
* Wiki Loves Monuments Ceremony ~ Sousse: 23/11/2013

=== Future involvement ===
* Being more and more involved in the Ubuntu-tn LoCo
* Prepare events with Ubuntu-tn
* Being more involved with Ubuntu International Community
* Contribute to Ubuntu and other FOSS projects

=== Testimonials ===

 {*} Anis is one of my best friends that I have met in Ubuntu-TN in the beginning of 2010. He is the ultimate Ubuntu geek that supports Ubuntu in every way possible. During last three years he has organised many events and gathered Ubuntu-TN members to keep in touch and keep up the good work. I recommend his approval as an official member as he creates a very active FLOSS dynamic in the Tunisian Team and helps promoting Ubuntu.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[Neo31|Ahmed Sghaier]]</nowiki>''''', current Ubuntu-TN LoCo Contact, 02-07-2013.

 {*} Anis is an active member in our LoCo team. he coordinated the organization almost all our last three years events. He help many people on ML, IRC, Forum and Facebook. it's natural that I recommend his approval as an Ubuntu member.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[Zied_ALAYA|Zied ALAYA]]</nowiki>''''', former LoCo contact, 03-07-2013.

 {*} Anis is one of the most active members in Ubuntu-tn LoCo team. As a member of the Management Committee he has the difficult task of coordinating the planning and the organization of our different events across all Tunisia. The success of these events is proof that Anis is working effectively. His contribution to our community is important and I highly recommend his approval as an Ubuntu member.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[nizarus|Nizar Kerkeni]]</nowiki>''''', former LoCo contact, 10-12-2013.

 {*} I know Anis there is a while, I participate with him in a lot of events and he was very active, helpful and smart. Nowadays he is one of the most active members of ubuntu-tn loco team. I recommend his approval as an Ubuntu member.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[Abdelmonam|Abdelmonam Kouka]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn member, 10-12-2013.

 {*} Anis is one of the most active and most engaged persons I know, he is engaged in Ubuntu and Free Software with all his heart, and gives the maximum for this mission. I met him, and I had the honnor to see him working, and I know what he is able to do, and to give for FOSS.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[oix555|Omar Sadeg]]</nowiki>''''', current Ubuntu-DZ LoCo Contact, 01-21-2014.

 {*} Anis has put alot of time and effort to get and keep Tunisian LoCo team up and running. I've communicated with Anis during events that cover Middle East Countries(Such as Arab Net) and he was very energetic and enthusiastic the work done. Sure, Anis is great add to the Tunisian team and Ubuntu LoCos presence in the region.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[AhmedShams|Ahmed Shams]]</nowiki>''''', Bug Triager and Community Worker, 01-25-2014.

 {*} Anis is one of my best friends that I have met in Ubuntu-TN. Anis is an active member in our LoCo team. He coordinated the organization almost all our last three years events. I work with him, he has a tremendous passion for improving the quality of the communities documentation. He is an enthusiastic and passionate person, that's why I recommend his approval as an Ubuntu member.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[LunaPersa|Mariam Hammouda]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn MC Member, 02-06-2014.

 {*} Anis is already an Ubuntu Member in his heart and mind. This title will be a merely recognition of a truth that is already shining throughout our community as demonstrated by all the previous testimonials.

  - '''''<nowiki>[[MaWaLe|MaWaLe]]</nowiki>''''', Ubuntu-tn LoCo Member and Ubuntu Member, 18-03-2015.
