{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

Hi there!
I was born in Paraná (South of Brazil), but I have lived in Rio de Janeiro (It is beautiful place) for nine years.
I am a Systems Analyst. For a long time I´ve interested for computers. I have used Linux for 10 years and during this time I was a Debian voluntarie for some years and 3 year ago I stoped to help them. It is very long history.

You can see my <nowiki>[[http://elcio.mello.googlepages.com/myresume|resume]]</nowiki>.
You can send me a email too... Email: 
I worked for some time on Conectiva Linux (now knows as Mandriva, Mandrake+Conectiva), as a Linux Consultant and today I work on a Petrol Company in Rio de Janeiro - Brazil as a Linux System Administrator and I have administered some Vmware ESX too! But I always loved the free software philosophy!

=== What it for? ===

Now I am very interested in Ubuntu and its philosophy. I would like to help the project, and I will try to use this wiki to post some articles references links and others stuffs that I will write. I hope it may help another peoples.

Brazil is a country where the people does not have so much money, education and access to information. A lot of people does not speak or read English and of course not even have a computer. So I will try to write the most in Portuguese, but some in English to others people to have access too.  Ops! I have to remember you that my English is not so good too... :-)

=== Articles ===
* Building a High Available Cluster Using Ubuntu

=== Things TO DO ===

==  ==

...
