{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===
I have been floating about in the community for 7 years now as forestpiskie and elfy, how time flies ... 

I've been a member of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> since the end of May 2007, joining there to get a few answers and have spent many hours there since helping others.

I was at one point quite heavily involved with the Beginners Team but as time went by I moved onto pastures new. 

Ubuntu Forums - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=610428|Elfy]]</nowiki>
Launchpad - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~elfy|elfy]]</nowiki>
IRC - elfy, hobgoblin on irc.freenode.net

=== Participation ===

==== Ubuntu Forums ====

I contribute to the Ubuntu Forums whenever I can, which of late has meant less support

I was asked in 2012 to join the Forum Council as an administator after some years as a moderator on the forums.

I'm finding that I spend less time supporting people on the forum that I'd prefer, though I manage to do so when I can. More of my time is of late spent on the tasks the FC does behind the scenes.

==== Xubuntu ====

I've been using Xubuntu since 2011, since I spent some time in the Xubuntu IRC channels helping out where possible. I was part of the 2012 team rewriting the offline docs prior to the release of 12.10.

I was recently asked if I'd like to be the Xubuntu QA Lead, a different use of my time than I am used to, but I hope to bring experience both from my time on the forum and work to bear and look forward to working with the Xubuntu team in a position of responsibility.

==== QA Team ====

I have been heavily involved during the Saucy dev cycle here creating and administrating manual testcases for Xubuntu. 

=== Testimonials ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Elfy/Testimonials | Testimonials]]</nowiki>
