{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Definition ==
To see how we define a testcase and it's basic structure, have a look at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TestCase|testcase]]</nowiki>.

== Testcase Formats ==
Two formats are currently recognized for use. For most testcases you find on the qatracker, the testcase should look like one of these:

=== Default ===
==== Description ====
This testcase is intended to provide step by step instructions, followed by an expected result for each step. To perform the testcase, read the perform action, and then verify the expected result step. If there is no 
expected result for the action, simply continue on performing the next action until the test is complete.

==== Format ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="margin-left: -20px !important; line-height: 1em !important;" style="width: 20px;">
| 
|-
| <-2> '''1. Perform X action'''
|-
| 
| ''Expect Y result''
|-
| <-2> '''2. Perform A action'''
|-
| 
| ''Expect B result''
|-
| 
| ''Expect C result''
|}

'''If all actions produce the expected results listed, please submit a 'passed' result.<<BR>>
If an action fails, or produces an unexpected result, please submit a 'failed' result and file a bug. Please be sure to include the bug number when you submit your result.'''

=== Smoke Testcase ===
==== Description ====
This testcase is intended to ask generalized questions for you to answer before rendering a pass or fail result. The questions are used as an aide to help you test the image, package, hardware, etc that is intended. By design, these testcases are open-ended and require the user to think critically about if the item being tested has regressed or otherwise contains any bugs. To do this, the user must go through there own personal use-cases, and checking the results against there own expectations. This requires more user knowledge of the item being tested.

==== Format ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="margin-left: -20px !important; line-height: 1em !important;">'''1. Question 1?'''
|-
| '''2. Question 2?'''
|-
| '''3. Question 3?'''
|}

'''If you answer 'yes' to all questions, please submit a 'passed' result.<<BR>>
If you answer 'no' to any question, then please submit 'failed' and file a bug. Please be sure to include the bug number when you submit your result.'''

== Contributing Testcases ==
If you are <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-manual-tests|contributing a new manual testcase]]</nowiki>, the text must include formatting to ensure it shows up visually correct on the qatracker. The following shows the same examples as above, but this time including the formatting required. The current testcases in the repository will show the same markup applied. 

==== Default ====
<pre>
This test will check foo
<dl>

  <dt>Perform X action</dt>
    <dd>Expect Y result</dd>
  <dt>Perform A action</dt>
    <dd>Expect B result</dd>
    <dd>Expect C result</dd>
</dl>

<strong>If all actions produce the expected results listed, please <a href="results#add_result">submit</a> a 'passed' result.
If an action fails, or produces an unexpected result, please <a href="results#add_result">submit</a> a 'failed' result and <a href="../../buginstructions">file a bug</a>. Please be sure to include the bug number when you <a href="results#add_result">submit</a> your result.</strong>
</pre>

==== Smoke Testcase ====
<pre>
<dl>
  <dt>Question 1?</dt>
  <dt>Question 2?</dt>
  <dt>Question 3?</dt>
</dl>

<strong>If you answer 'yes' to all questions, please <a href="results#add_result">submit</a> a 'passed' result.
If you answer 'no' to any question, then please <a href="results#add_result">submit</a> 'failed' and <a href="../../buginstructions">file a bug</a>. Please be sure to include the bug number when you <a href="results#add_result">submit</a> your result.</strong>
</pre>

== Posting on the Wiki ==

Sometimes it can be helpful to put the tests cases on a Wiki.  To convert the test case format into Wiki syntax you can use these <code>sed</code> rules:

<pre>
sed \
    -e "s/<tt>\(.*\)<\/tt>/<pre>\\1} }}/" \
    -e "s/<i>\(.*\)<\/i>/''\\1''/" \
    -e "s/<dl>/=== Procedure ===/" -e "s/<\/dl>//" \
    -e "s/^Test-case \(.*\)/== Test Case: \\1 ==/" \
    -e "s/<a href=\"\([^\"]*\)\">\(.*\)<\/a>/<nowiki>[[\\1|\\2]]</nowiki>/" \
    -e "s/\(\s*\)<dt>\(.*\)<\/dt>/ \* \\2/" \
    -e "s/\(\s*\)<dd>\(.*\)<\/dd>/   \* \\2/"
</pre>
