{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Hello! I am Elijah Wright, and I am a geek located in Tennessee.  

=== Work ===

Recent hats I've worn have included system integrator, systems developer, and senior network / system administrator.

I currently work for Joyent.  I am most interested, recently, in configuration management, scalability, and monitoring.

=== Open Source ===

I use Ubuntu actively both for my personal servers and on the desktop.  I've been using Debian since around 1997, and transitioned to Ubuntu with Warty.  My Linux history goes back quite a bit further than that; my first Linux distro was SLS (from SoftLanding Systems), which I got on 5&1/4 inch floppies! :)  I've also done a fair bit of Solaris, OpenSolaris (especially at $WORK), and have significant previous Mac OSX administration experience.

=== Recent activity ===

You can find my aging personal blog at <nowiki>[[http://www.geek-guides.com/|www.geek-guides.com]]</nowiki>

I have not been actively blogging there for quite some time; I am in the process of resuming blogging activity at joyeurelijah.wordpress.com and as a participant on joyeur.com.

In the last couple of years I have been working with configuration management and monitoring tools most actively.  [Nagios, Chef, Puppet, Zabbix.]  This activity is closely linked to an interest in scalability and the web.

I also have an active interest in scalable statistical computing with <nowiki>[[http://cran.r-project.org/|R]]</nowiki>, a popular tool from the statistics community which has become a dominant player in bioinformatics and other scientific fields.

=== Contact Details ===

* '''IRC''': elijahwright (irc.freenode.net)
* '''Email''': elijah.wright(at)gmail(dot)com

Also see my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/elijahwright/|Launchpad Profile]]</nowiki>.

=== Where to find me ===

I am on the following lists:

* ubuntu-devel
* ubuntu-devel-discuss
* ubuntu-security-announce
* ubuntu-desktop
* ubuntu-motu
* ubuntu-server-bugs

IRC:

* #ubuntu-us-tn
* #ubuntu-server
* #ubuntu-desktop
* #ubuntu-locoteams

=== Contributions ===

Context:

I have been a user of Debian since 1997 or thereabouts, and have actively used both mainline Debian (generally Unstable) throughout.  After the release of Ubuntu, I began also using Ubuntu where I found it to be appropriate.  Those uses have grown and developed alongside Ubuntu - first with laptops, then later with server infrastructure.

* Ubuntu advocacy the local community (ACM, LUGs, Ruby user groups)
* Bug reporting.
* 
* involvement 

Your contributions should therefore be carefully documented on your personal wiki page. Include the following details:

1. A summary of your contributions to Ubuntu (no longer than 2-3 lines)
2. A link to your Launchpad profile
3. A complete description of your contributions to Ubuntu
4. Your plans and ideas for Ubuntu in the near and far future 

Other contributions:

* Contribution 1
* Contribution 2
* Contribution 3
* Contribution 4

=== Ubuntu Vision ===

In the near term, I am becoming more involved with the server team and with the Tennessee LoCo.  Several of the tools that I use regularly have "warts" in the user experience, and can be improved in ways that will help the community tremendously.  

In the somewhat longer term, I want to help improve the ecosystem of packages around <nowiki>[[http://cran.r-project.org|R]]</nowiki>, an open-source statistical computing environment, and to help improve the state of visualization and network analysis tools within Ubuntu.
