{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Elliot Murphy, apply for MOTU and additional per-package upload rights to protobuf, evolution-couchdb, couchdb-glib, libubuntuone, rhythmbox-ubuntuone-music-store, python-couchdb (these are all part of the Ubuntu One stack that I missed out when applying for PPU before)'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Elliot Murphy
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~statik/
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElliotMurphy
|-
| '''Previous application'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElliotMurphy/DeveloperApplication
|}

== Who I am ==
''Tell us a bit about yourself.''

I'm Elliot, aka statik on IRC. I like writing code and creating things and I abhor paperwork. I'm really interested in scaling of software projects, both scaling down - keeping projects small enough that a single person can maintain them, and scaling up - shepherding projects through growing pains until they have a life long beyond what the original creators envisioned. One time while I was travelling in Italy I accidentally ate some horse meat, and for that I am eternally repentant. 

== My Ubuntu story ==
''Tell us how and when you got involved, what you liked working on and what you could probably do better.''

=== My involvement ===

I switched to using Ubuntu instead of Gentoo in early 2005, I first started learning about Ubuntu development when I joined Canonical working on the Launchpad team in December 2006, and I've been working on the Ubuntu One project for about a 18 months now. My involvement in Ubuntu so far has been a bit of bugfixing (python packages, couchdb); getting new software packaged, and teaching other people how they can package software for ubuntu rather than working around the packaging system. In Debian I work as part of the Erlang packaging team and the Python Modules packaging team, and I'm working toward becoming a DM for the packages I care about the most (CouchDB, django-whisper, python-django-lean).

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Since my last application I have packaged magicicada for Ubuntu and python-whisper for Debian, in addition to doing a few merges and syncs. I'm currently putting a lot of effort into reducing the delta between Ubuntu and Debian for CouchDB. I'm trying to earn MOTU rights so I can help with sponsoring fixes in packages all over universe, particularly in the python and erlang stack, and I'd like to expand my PPU rights to cover some other packages that I work very closely with in my day job (Ubuntu One packages). 

I've done a bit of work on 20 packages: https://edge.launchpad.net/~statik/+related-software, http://mentors.debian.net/cgi-bin/maintainer-packages?action=details;package=python-whisper, http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?packages=foolscap+couchdb . This varies from bugfixing to merges to new packages. I think something I'm very good at is being persistent when debugging, and knowing how and where to ask for help when I can tell something isn't quite correct or I'm not sure how to test it. I'm a lot better at navigating a large foreign code base and fixing something than I am at building a whole new software project myself.

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''

I have very little day-to-day interaction with the various Ubuntu development teams,although I do follow the mailing lists and carefully read the policies. I don't like talking very much, I like drive-by contributions better and am mostly interested in scratching my own itch for a handful of packages and then gardening in the long tail of packages outside of main as time allows.  Mostly when I want something uploaded I prepare it and then ask on IRC and BLAM! it's uploaded - once I learned how it works it's been pretty cool to see how smoothly sponsoring goes. When there are problems people tell me whats wrong and I fix it. So far I think pitti, slangasek, james_w, kirkland, asac, and ScottK have sponsored one or two uploads for me or reviewed changes for me. For Lucid I decided to make an effort at more general contributions to Ubuntu rather than just new packages I was trying to get in, and thats been neat. At UDS Dallas kirkland walked me through merging the old way with MoM, but then I did my first merge using bzr in Lucid (the erlang package), and have requested syncs for a couple of merges where all the Ubuntu changes had already gone upstream. Even though my personal interest is contributing to universe, my day job is managing the Ubuntu One dev team so I'm also applying for per-package upload rights on packages related to Ubuntu One that I touch because of my work.

=== Things I could do better ===

Stop packaging stuff for Ubuntu and package it for Debian instead to reduce double work - three of my packages that I did for Ubuntu (python-coverage and python-amqplib and python-testtools) were packaged at the same time by other people in Debian, so I ended up just getting them synced from Debian a cycle later. I've joined the debian-python team and the debian-erlang team and am working on several packages there. Also I would like to be a funnier person, it's just so nice to work on a team where people can make each other laugh.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

My plan for the future is to keep writing software, and stop making so many plans - I want to be more emergent (seriously!). I'm pretty excited about whats happening in the Ubuntu Distributed Development project which will make packaging so much easier, and I want to get more involved with packaging Erlang applications, as there are not many people working on that. I see the big load of work on the sponsors queue and I'm keen to be able to help out with reviewing and uploading contributions that I'm confident are correct, and helping people learn how to improve packages that need work. I guess if I could accomplish anything I would want to be smarter, except with pink spiky hair or maybe a nice handlebar mousetach.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''

Ubuntu seems pretty nice to me. I think Ubuntu is the best platform for building software that I've ever used. I'm quite taken with <nowiki>[[http://alistair.cockburn.us/Collaboration:+the+dance+of+contribution|Cockburn's dance of contribution]]</nowiki>, and I like that Ubuntu works so hard to create an environment of personal safety where people can collaborate. I want to help keep this dream alive, and encourage people to keep on improvising.

One of the things that worries me about Ubuntu is attracting new developers to the platform, and I'm thrilled about the post release cool apps repo work that is happening during Maverick. Positioning Ubuntu as a stable platform that application developers can ship applications on top rather than treating everything as part of the platform is vital for the continued growth and success of Ubuntu.

----
== Comments ==
* I've worked with Elliot on a few things related to Ubuntu One, here are the highlights:
** Community-facing approach - Elliot was keen to work with existing Ubuntu community structures, little things like ensuring his team members are engaged in the forums and IRC channels, are responsive to user questions, and generally making themselves available for content.
** Upstream focus - Elliot has been working closely with CouchDB upstream and our fixes go there, along with all the things the team touches.
* Stefan Potyra (sistpoty):
** The only upload I sponsored was bug 428098. It was a patch of good quality. Elliot was responsive when asked to forward the patch to Debian.
* DustinKirkland (kirkland)
** I've coached Elliot on a few packaging issues, merges, and syncs.  Elliot asks intelligent questions, and diligently digests information passed to him.  He has a passion for Ubuntu and a meticulously curiosity for doing things "correctly".  I think Elliot is an asset to the Ubuntu development community.
* Facundo Batista (facundobatista)
** Elliot is very proactive, always aiming to make a good work himself and enabling all people around to produce their best.  He's always teaching how to do things better, and is very helpful working with and inside the community.
** He has done a very good job packaging magicicada for Ubuntu, and I bet he'll do a similar successful work in other projects/packages.
* Natalia Bidart (nessita)
** Elliot gave me this precise and spectacular tutorial on packaging, that made me finally understand what's packaging is all about. He was very specific about the details and the procedures that have to be followed in order to make proper packages. I'm 100% sure that Elliot understand about packaging quality, and he's fully qualified to perform as MOTU.

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I'm very happy with the things I looked at in my personal experience with Elliot. The stuff he has been working on sometimes wasn't trivial, but he still succeeded. Also I'm quite happy with how he collaborates with Debian maintainers.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-amqplib/+bug/499686
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/protobuf/+bug/262665
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/couchdb/0.10.0~svn813472-0ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/protobuf/2.0.0~b-3ubuntu2

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Sometimes could follow up on bug reports quicker. ;-)

=== JamesWestby (james_w) ===
==== General feedback ====
I'm always impressed by Elliot's enthusiasm and commitment to quality and great processes, I look forward to working with him more in the future.

I'm also a bug fan of his upstream ethic, both in terms of Ubuntu One and making sure that team works with the Ubuntu development community in the best way, but in pushing things upstream of Ubuntu too, usually before approaching Ubuntu. It's always a pleasure to review a patch which is just a cherry-pick from upstream.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
** https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~statik/ubuntu/lucid/python-django/fix-cookies-bug513719/+merge/18273

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I think the main thing Elliot needs is experience. Once he understands an issue he always strives to make sure everything is done correctly, so just encountering more packaging difficulties will ensure that he improves.

It would also be great if he could spend more of his time hacking :-)

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
