{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== My Contact info ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Nick on ubuntu-cl.org
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=673690|_ZeTa]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Name:'''
| Ellioth González Morales
|-
| '''Age:'''
| 23
|-
| '''Occupation:'''
| Informatic Support
|-
| '''Email:'''
| vigiadelatorre@gmail.com
|-
| '''Launchpad:'''
| https://launchpad.net/~vigiadelatorre
|-
| '''IRC:'''
| ZeTa_
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Talca, Región del Maule, Chile
|-
| '''Time Zone:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/city.html?n=232|América/Santiago]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://informatex.wordpress.com|InformateX.wordpress.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Webpage'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.zetaweb.cl|www.zetaweb.cl]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key ID:'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xDBB6E0F24DCBEAAED8EFB868DF35354D9D182676&op=index|9D182676]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Presentation ====

- English -
Hello everybody! My Name is Ellioth, and im from Talca, Chile.
Im an LinuX fan from 2008. I give informatic support on University of Talca, at the School of Architecture and in the Maule's regional library dependind of DIBAM, (Direction of Libraries, files and museums). Also, i'm Participating in the group forum as manager of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1176055|the post of week]]</nowiki>.

- Spanish -
Hola a Todos! Mi nombre es Ellioth, y vivo en Talca - Chile. Me gusta LinuX desde el 2008. Doy soporte Informático en la Escuela de Arquitectura de la Universidad de Talca y en la Biblioteca Regional del Maule, dependiente de la DIBAM, Dirección de Bibliotecas Archivos y Museos). Además, Participo en el grupo foro, como encargado de <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1176055|el post de la semana]]</nowiki>.

==== Activities ====

'''2007'''
* Flisol nodo Talca - Ubuntu Installer Team 
'''2008'''
* Flisol nodo Talca - Ubuntu Installer Team
* DSL Curicó - Ubuntu Installer Team
'''2009'''
* Flisol nodo Talca - Ubuntu Installer Team
* DSL Curicó - Ubuntu Installer Team
'''2010'''
* Flisol nodo Talca - Ubuntu Leader Team

==== Links ====

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChileanTeam|ChileTeam]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-cl.org/|http://www.ubuntu-cl.org/]]</nowiki>
* Foros: <nowiki>[[http://chile.ubuntuforums.org/|http://chile.ubuntuforums.org/]]</nowiki>
* ChileTeam on Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cl-foros|https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cl-foros]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryChileanTeam CategoryChileanTeam
