{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Elliot Murphy
* elliot@ubuntu.com 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~statik|Elliot Murphy LP profile]]</nowiki>

* Summary of your experience in Ubuntu:
** Switched to Ubuntu from Gentoo in 2005 while working at MySQL (replication team), started dealing with distributions from upstream perspective.
** Started working with Canonical (on Launchpad) in December 2006, learned how Launchpad supported Ubuntu and upstream projects.
** Was one of the initial members of the Florida LOCO team.
** Worked on Ubuntu One project as the first developer and then senior engineering manager for last 2 years, intimately familiar with the current processes for introducing packages and applications into Ubuntu and Debian and the need for the new Application Review Board.
** As part of work with Ubuntu One, also involved in supervising iPhone and Android application development, and so familiar with iPhone and Android review process.
** Recently became MOTU, also part of Debian Python and Erlang teams.
** I have personally gotten packages into Ubuntu and also Debian, as well as reviewed the work of others and provided constructive feedback.

* What do you think you could bring to the Application Review Board?

As someone who has worked on bringing several applications into Ubuntu over the last year or two and a longtime upstream developer, I'm passionate about bringing more application developers to Ubuntu, about making Ubuntu the absolute best way to distribute software to users. I'm familiar with the risks, rewards, and tradeoffs with introducing new applications, and have the background and depth of understanding to discern which applications are safe to introduce and which are likely to be destabilizing and need to be integrated during the normal development cycle. I've been working on software for 15 years, am fluent and capable of auditing C/C++, Python, C#, Java, Erlang as well as packaging for Ubuntu and many other platforms. I also understand security updates, maintenance requirements, etc.

What I would bring to the ARB is deep sympathy for the application developer along with an understanding of how vital application developers are to the continuing success of Ubuntu, a deep technical ability to evaluate both the application under review and it's packaging, familiarity with the Ubuntu platform from years of experience, ability to say no and reject applications when necessary, and excellent communication skills to help developers feel that their experience with the ARB was a positive one. I also have common sense to know when to ask for help because a package or application is beyond my ability to effectively audit.
