{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date of foundation:''' November 2006
* '''Date of application:''' Apr. 14, 2008
* '''Team Contact:''' Celvin Rivas - celvin(AT)gmail(DOT)com
* '''Membership:''' 42 Members as of Apr. 14, 2008

=== Resources ===

Basic resources for the team are set up and running:

* '''Website:''' http://www.gnusal.org/
* '''Mailing List:''' ubuntu-sv on lists.ubuntu.com 
* '''IRC:''' #ubuntu-sv on irc.freenode.net
* '''Launchpad:''' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-sv
* '''Wiki:''' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam

=== Membership ===

The Ubuntu El Salvador Team have 42 registred members in Launchpad as of April 14, 2008. The LoCo Team is also part of the Central American Ubuntu LoCo Team Project - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-centroamerica.

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Membership''' - Increase the expertise and knowledge of our members so they can contribute in a better way to the community through local community workshops.

* '''Education''' - Educational project in collaboration with the Ministry of Education of El Salvador, in order to teach school children and teachers the use of FOSS, specifically Ubuntu.

* '''Software Development''' - Local development of educational software for elementary schools in El Salvador.

* '''Rural Internet Connectivity''' - A pilot project for rural Internet connectivity using FOSS.

* '''Ubuntu Central American LoCo Team Project''' - Continue to participate in regional community projects and initiatives, such as regional events and contribute to the building of collaborative sites; gnusal.org and sl-centroamerica.org.

=== Experience ===

* Implementation and migration of a local school in the Sonsonate area to Ubuntu and design of the new study plan. 

* Conferences and workshops in; Andrés Bello University (Ubuntu related), Scratch (programming language for children 10-16 years old), several workshops in the use of FOSS in the rural education (Ubuntu and Edubuntu), web design workshop with FOSS tools, FLISOL 2007 event (23 installs, +70 CDs distributed), celebration of the SFD 2007 together with the Nicaraguan Ubuntu LoCo Team in Managua, Nicaragua.

Started several important projects for our community:

* Local development of educational software for elementary schools in El Salvador.

* Educational project in collaboration with the Ministry of Education of El Salvador, in order to teach school children and teachers the use of FOSS, specifically Ubuntu.

==== Links ====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam/eventos|Events in elementary schools]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam/instituciones|Events in technical schools]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElSalvadorTeam/universidades|Events in universities]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gnusal.org/galeria.htm|The last event]]</nowiki>
=== Cheers from the community ===

** Ubuntu-sv is a very enthusiastic and active community. We have a very positive experience of working with them in several projects and initiatives. Approving the team will be a great recognition for all their hard work and a great leap forward for the Central American Ubuntu community. - Leandro Gómez, Ubuntu member and Team Contact of the official Ubuntu-ni Team, leogg AT ubuntu DOT com 

** Ubuntu-sv is a great community. This approval will stimulate the work in the sv team and im sure that they will continue working very hard. Norman Garcia, ubuntu-ni member and member of the ubuntu-ni CC, naguilarg(AT)gmail.com

** Ubuntu-sv is a very active community. We have a great experience working with them. This approval will be a great for this team and for our Central American Comunity. - Mario Young, Ubuntu Member Ubuntu-pa | Ubuntu-cr Team, mayeco AT ubuntu DOT com 
