{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Original Website ===

* http://mcentral.de/wiki/index.php/Em2880

=== Roadmap ===

Officially the <nowiki>[[http://www.empiatech.com.tw/pro_em2880.htm|em2880]]</nowiki> is em2840 + DVB_T (Analogue/DVB-T Hybrid USB Tuner)

* Analog TV implemented, Xceive xc3028 tuner reverse engineered
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxtv.org/v4lwiki/index.php/Em2880/remote|Remote control]]</nowiki> supported
* VBI (Teletext) supported with zapping
* DVB-T supported tested with xine, kaffeine and mplayer

=== Installation ===

Alternative howtos (if you want to write an howto, always refer to this site since things might change, please state that out explicitly at the beginning too!) Note: The firmware installation became easier now, these links aren't uptodate yet. Feel free to contact the writers of outdated howtos.

* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/em28xx_generique|French how-to for generic em28xx]]</nowiki> (ex: EasyCAP) 08 april 2008

* <nowiki>[[http://treboada.net/caligari/node/50|Click here for a spanish howto]]</nowiki> (outdated)

* <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=323215#p323215|Click here for a french installation thread]]</nowiki> (just a forum, last posts are usually more uptodate)

* <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntuusers.de/topic/24001/|Click here for a german installation thread]]</nowiki> (just a forum, last posts are usually more up-to-date)

* <nowiki>[[http://konstantin.filtschew.de/blog/?p=68|German how-to]]</nowiki> (Updated 25. Jan. 2007)

* <nowiki>[[http://www.2nrds.com/digital-tv-in-linux-with-em28xx-devices|Another english one]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/materiel/terratec-cinergy-xs|French how-to]]</nowiki> (probably outdated) 

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/em28xx|german Ubuntu howto]]</nowiki> (Updated 13. Feb. 2007)

* <nowiki>[[http://lunapark6.com/?p=2682|English Ubuntu Edgy Eft & Fedora Core 6 how-to for Hauppage WinTV-HVR-950]]</nowiki> (Updated 08. Jan. 2007)

* <nowiki>[[http://www.marcushellberg.com/pages/projects/digital-tv-in-linux.php|Setting up the remote]]</nowiki> (remote only installation outdated)

* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/materiel/pctv_usb_stick_remote|French remote how-to]]</nowiki>

* (feel free to add alternative how-tos here)

Original installation description starts here:

* Firmware

If you have one of the following devices you need to get a copy of the ''xceive'' firmware.

Mirror 1: http://konstantin.filtschew.de/v4l-firmware/

Mirror 2: http://www.tuxamito.com.es/em2880/

<pre>
$ sha1sum filename
0bddf428ef4e8b532002d5a7ba7bddfdeb99085b  firmware.tgz
caa44ded1e1d6cf3a9a9e530caca840a92d6920f  firmware_v2.tgz
792193b3e073c27d1d2eccebc72ec9ad1b6950a6  firmware_v3.tgz
134d3b77b40d1b1298a91bb32c44544cebf77e64  firmware_v4.tgz
</pre>

Following devices might need `firmware.tgz` (if analogue doesn't work out try `firmware_v2.tgz` or `firmware_v3.tgz` and please report it to me (). It's very likely that some of these devices require `firmware_v3` to get audio work):

* Terratec Cinergy Hybrid T XS (french edition)
* Terratec Cinergy T XS
* DNT DA2 Hybrid
* Kworld 350U

<pre>
$ cd /lib/firmware 
$ sudo wget http://konstantin.filtschew.de/v4l-firmware/firmware.tgz 
$ sudo tar xvzf firmware.tgz
</pre>

These devices require `firmware_v2`:

* MSI DigiVox A/D
* Kworld 310U
* Terratec Cinergy Hybrid T XS (USB ID=0ccd:005e)

<pre>
$ cd /lib/firmware 
$ sudo wget http://konstantin.filtschew.de/v4l-firmware/firmware_v2.tgz
$ sudo tar xvzf firmware_v2.tgz
</pre>

These devices require `firmware_v3`:
* HVR 900 B2C0(sticker on the dev.)
* HVR 900 A1C0 
* Terratec Cinergy Hybrid T XS
* Pinnacle PCTV Hybrid Pro
* Pinnacle PCTV Hybrid Pro Stick (320e) (USB ID=eb1a:2881)

<pre>
$ cd /lib/firmware
$ sudo wget http://konstantin.filtschew.de/v4l-firmware/firmware_v3.tgz
$ sudo tar xvzf firmware_v3.tgz
</pre>

These devices require `firmware_v4`:

* Pinnacle HD Pro Stick (North American version, NTSC/ATSC)

<pre>
$ cd /lib/firmware
$ sudo wget http://konstantin.filtschew.de/v4l-firmware/firmware_v4.tgz
$ sudo tar xvzf firmware_v4.tgz
</pre>

The firmware is a piece of software which is needed by your device and gets uploaded by the linux driver, it's not stored on the device itself so you won't change the behavior of that device in Windows.

* Requirements: Hg from <nowiki>[[http://www.selenic.com/mercurial/]]</nowiki>. You can install Mercurial in Ubuntu with:
   <pre>
   sudo apt-get install mercurial
</pre>
* The linux kernel sources for your kernel. 2.6.15+ kernels are well tested, everything below might cause problems with the usbaudio support. Install sources for you current kernel with this command:
   <pre>
   sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` linux-source
</pre>

Check out the source code (do not use the web frontend for downloading the repository):

Stable:
<pre>
$ hg clone http://linuxtv.org/hg/v4l-dvb
</pre>

Build the source:
<pre>
$ cd v4l-dvb
$ make
$ sudo make install
</pre>

Before posting any error messages, reboot your machine here.

Now load the drivers:
<pre>
$ sudo modprobe em28xx
</pre>

To verify that your setup was correct you might compare your `dmesg` output with ones on following wiki site: <nowiki>[[http://linuxtv.org/v4lwiki/index.php/Em2880/dmesg]]</nowiki>
If you device isn't listed there please help to complete the list and add your device there too.

Scanning for channels for '''xine''' (`dvbscan` is called `scan` in Debian) (replace `de-Muenchen` with your frequency file)
<pre>
$ dvbscan -n -o zap -p de-Muenchen > ~/.xine/channels.conf
</pre>

For Ubuntu 6.06 (and maybe others?) try something like this (replace `de-Koeln-Bonn` with your frequency file)
<pre>
$ scan -n -o zap -p /usr/share/doc/dvb-utils/examples/scan/dvb-t/de-Koeln-Bonn
>>> tune to: 754000000:INVERSION_AUTO:BANDWIDTH_8_MHZ:FEC_1_2:FEC_NONE:QAM_16:TRANSMISSION_MODE_8K:GUARD_INTERVAL_1_4:HIERARCHY_NONE
0x0000 0x0022: pmt_pid 0x0220 BR -- Bayerisches FS (running)
0x0000 0x0023: pmt_pid 0x0230 BR -- BR-alpha (running)
0x0000 0x00e1: pmt_pid 0x0e10 BR -- SÜDWEST BW (running)
0x0000 0x0041: pmt_pid 0x0410 BR -- hr-fernsehen (running)
</pre>

I'll add support for other applications by time when I have DVB-T around again. But for now only '''dvbscan''', '''xine''' and '''kaffeine''' are well tested and supported.

If you have any problems with the installation have a look at this site: <nowiki>[[http://mcentral.de/wiki/index.php/Talk:Em2880]]</nowiki>. It contains some frequently asked questions, you're invited to extend that site!
