{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Forty-something unemployed multimedia creator (and occasional independent consultant) who has been using Personal Computers since the days of the Apple II. Switched to IBM PC clones in the mid-1980's, and went through DOS, Windows Windows For WorkgroupsFW, Win9x and now XP (I have no interest in Vista or Win7).

I became dismayed at the hardware requirements for the upcoming Windows Vista and decided to look at GNU/Linux. In mid 2006, I read about Ubuntu, and gave it a try. Originally misled, I presumed it would do everything that Windows does,(of course in its own way) but have since realized it's "the same only different". I use Ubuntu full time, on 2 Desktops and a Laptop, and I plan to keep involved and informed on current and future developments.

I was never "indoctrinated" into the whole MS Office Suite thing, nor did I do much programming in those years. My specialties are in research, proofreading, documentation, usability testing and "playing the devil's advocate". My interests are technology, automobiles, photography, aeronautics, music, reading, earth & space and the unknown. 

I wrote this 3 years ago, and I think It has come true: "I hope to see Ubuntu thrive and become usable anywhere and at any level; "out of the box" on a new PC, with a few tweaks on an older PC, or configurable to be functional as needed on almost any PC that exists."  Cool!
