{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

Hi folks! I'm Emilio Pozuelo Monfort, aka pochu.

I'm a Computer Science student at the <nowiki>[[http://um.es/|Universidad de Murcia]]</nowiki> at <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murcia|Murcia]]</nowiki>, Spain, city where I born and live.

I used Windows for all my live, but on December 2005, my brother showed me the light.

I started with BreezyBadger, conserving w2k. But a little later, I installed DapperDrake Flight4 in another partition, and started testing Ubuntu. At once, I moved my home to Dapper, and keep testing and learning. During that period, I erased w2k from my computer, and finished my liberation from the evil.

With EdgyEft, I started from the beginning, and I've been using the development release of Ubuntu until then.

I'm also an <nowiki>[[UbuntuMembers|Ubuntu Member]]</nowiki> since February 26th 2007!

=== What I do ===

==== BugSquad ====

I spend some time in #ubuntu-bugs, triaging bugs, marking as duplicates, pointing reports to the proper packages...
I specially take care of bugs in some <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~pochu/+packagebugs|packages]]</nowiki>.
I've contributed with some <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pochu/+packages|uploads]]</nowiki>, and I'd like to learn more about packaging.
In short, I'm a bugfighter!

==== <nowiki>[[MOTU|MOTU]]</nowiki> ====

I'm a member of the <nowiki>[[MOTU|Masters of the Universe]]</nowiki>, the team which maintains most of the Ubuntu archive. I take care of some packages of my interest, and help reviewing new packages and maintaining the SponsorsQueue.

==== DesktopTeam ====

I help with packaging in the DesktopTeam, which handles the Ubuntu (GNOME) environment.

=== What I would like to do ===

* Learn Python and C.
* Become a core-dev... some day :)
* Do a SoC project.

=== Contact Me ===

Feel free to contact me if you want. I promise to answer all the emails ;)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">  Emilio Pozuelo Monfort
|-
| LaunchPad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pochu|pochu]]</nowiki>
|-
| Email
| pochu@ubuntu.com
|-
| IRC
| pochu @ Freenode and OFTC
|}

----
CategoryHomepage
