{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Find more information about our meetings in <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/EmiratesLoCo/|Meetup Website]]</nowiki>.

This is the log of our third IRC meeting, held on #ubuntu-ae channel on Sunday, 18th January, 2012:

As you can see, the log is messed up. Will contact the team to find a better one. I lost my log when my internet got disconnected.

* Now talking on #ubuntu-ae
	-ChanServ-	[#ubuntu-ae] Welcome to #ubuntu-ae. This channel is publicly logged at irclogs.ubuntu.com. Use of this channel implies acceptance of the terms at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/TermsOfService
	rverrips	Hi Bassem
	rverrips	Just you and me?
	rverrips	(Neil said he'd be late)
	rverrips	Bassem?  Just me?
* rverrips-web (02328e70@gateway/web/freenode/ip.2.50.142.112) has joined #ubuntu-ae
* rverrips-web (02328e70@gateway/web/freenode/ip.2.50.142.112) has left #ubuntu-ae
* amjjawad (d9a42afa@gateway/web/freenode/ip.217.164.42.250) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	amjjawad	Hi everyone
	rverrips	Hi Ali - Just you and me at the moment (no everyone yet)
	amjjawad	Oh ok :)
	rverrips	Not sure who'll attending - The IRC meetings have been a bit sparse the past few months.
	amjjawad	And it's time to get it back to action
	rverrips	Read 'bout you in Forums - You're the Ubuntu-WOW guy, right?
* ragesh_ (56623908@gateway/web/freenode/ip.86.98.57.8) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	ragesh_	hii
	rverrips	here we go .. Hi Rajesh!
	amjjawad	Yes, I'm the WOW Lubuntu guy
	amjjawad	Hi :)
	ragesh_	Hii
	rverrips	Glad you made it rajesh - Using the web interface?
	amjjawad	My real name is Ali and my username is amjjawad and that username will be everywhere in Ubuntu Forum, Lubuntu Mailing Lists and hopefully Emirates LoCo too :)
	ragesh_	yeah.. the fastest way :)
	amjjawad	same here, the web interface as I did not install XChat yet
	rverrips	IRC chat is loosing it's appeal these days, but in the days before IM, Tweets and micro-blogging it was all the rage ...
	ragesh_	roy, where are you didn't see you for the last meet
	rverrips	IF you're running ubuntu you set it up in pidgin
	amjjawad	Yeah, I'm aware of that but if truth to be told, I hate IRC :P
	rverrips	I moved to Abu Dhabi Ragesh … sadly haven't been able to make the meet ups (in person or IRC) due mainly to that ...
	ragesh_	but soemtimes they are ral helpfull
* uxthui (0231d343@gateway/web/freenode/ip.2.49.211.67) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	ragesh_	*real
	amjjawad	I gave up chatting long time ago but I have to use it to meet you guys :)
	amjjawad	Yes indeed specially now when I need to meet you virtually in here :)
	uxthui	Sorry, I nearly forgot...
	amjjawad	Hi uxthui 
	uxthui	Evening, amjjawad ragesh_ rverrips nlsthzn 
	ragesh_	Ali you said you have few plans
	ragesh_	good evng buddy
	amjjawad	yes ragesh_ I do but first of all, we need to get to know each other :)
	ragesh_	oh I'm so sorry I forgot that u r new here
	uxthui	amjjawad: You seem to be very actice in the Ubuntu community already. Thanks for joining us as well.
	amjjawad	My first quick plan is re-organize the team and contact the old dead team
* rverrips introduces Toki (uxthui) to Ali - (Toki will be chairing this meeting, I believe)
	amjjawad	my pleasure uxthui  :)
	rverrips	Hi Ali - The "old dead" team is a bit more complicated than you might expect.
	amjjawad	hi rverrips :) well, let's see what we can do :)
	uxthui	Yes, amjjawad the one who was talking with Mr Zulfikar was rverrips 
	rverrips	Truth be told it was started as part of a commercial linux venture - All the members were employees, which is why it never got anywhere.  Omar has tried a number of times to get it to merge with us, but no luck yet ...
	amjjawad	for the time being, we need an active team even if we are few
	rverrips	+1 for active team, regardless
	amjjawad	I'll give it a go guys and will let you know ;)
	amjjawad	now, let's focus on our team and how to be more active and organized
	amjjawad	that's Plan A Phase 1
	amjjawad	Plan A Phase 2 will be recruiting people :)
	amjjawad	two plans in few seconds and that's all for now :P
	rverrips	I don't think our problem is organization … We can achieve anything with enough inertia :-)
	amjjawad	it's about quality rverrips not quantity :) so YES we can do it
* rverrips is wondering who's chairing the meeting and if we can start it officially, already half an hour overdue?
	rverrips	+1 for quality, but then again, wouldn't mind some quantity either :-)
	amjjawad	Oh yes :)
	ragesh_	:)
	amjjawad	so who will chair the meeting?
	ragesh_	 believe TOki is there!!
	amjjawad	ok :)
	rverrips	Take it away, Mr Toki (for those of you new here, Toki is our Community Manager)
	rverrips	Oh yes, and Toki's handle is uxthui if you're really new :-)
	amjjawad	Nice to meet you, uxthui :)
	uxthui	zMy apologies for my delay again.
	amjjawad	never mind uxthui 
* nlsthzn waves at everyone
	ragesh_	hii..
* rverrips gives nlsthzn a high five 
	ragesh_	good to see u
	ragesh_	:)
	uxthui	In any case, I believe ragesh_ mentioned something about an installfest, did you not?
	nlsthzn	Nice to be seen... what I miss (or should I read)?
	rverrips	We haven't started yet Neil, you're just in time - I believe Toki was just clearing his throat ...
	uxthui	Would you like to elaborate?
	uxthui	Hey, nlsthzn 
* Haden (~Haden@94.200.1.192) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	nlsthzn	Cool... uxthui , you chairing?
	nlsthzn	0/ to Haden too
	amjjawad	nlsthzn: hey :)
	Haden	Hey guys :)
	amjjawad	hello Haden 
	nlsthzn	Hi rverrips , uxthui , amjjawad , ragesh_  (seems to be all)... and bassem 
	uxthui	Haden: !
* ZAKhan (56605ef2@gateway/web/freenode/ip.86.96.94.242) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	ragesh_	yes, the install fest the other person is away ie not in UAE 
	uxthui	A big turnout after a long time.
	nlsthzn	Hi ZAKhan 
	uxthui	ragesh_: Sorry, I couldn;t tell from your handle.
	nlsthzn	Welcome
	amjjawad	Hi ZAKhan :)
	ragesh_	hii haden
	ZAKhan	Hi there
	ragesh_	hii
	amjjawad	Ok so shall we start? 
	uxthui	nlsthzn: Please link us to the agenda you wrote up.
	Haden	Hi everyone .. I've been caught up at work lately .. Haven't been able to participate alot .
	nlsthzn	These are the points I quickly thought off - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NPesQfKK5WBr4aZImGF_C-e2pSWhtPdxk-BAU5JP7Dk/edit?hl=en_US
	Haden	Still at work .. :( will listen silently ..
	rverrips	ZAKahn … Zulfikar, that you?
	nlsthzn	No worries Haden 
	ZAKhan	Yes Roy the one and only :)
	ragesh_	same here haden
* rverrips introduces ZAKhan to all - This is Zulfiqar, the lead of the other Ubuntu Loco in the UAE
	nlsthzn	Welcome ZAKhan :)
	amjjawad	I know him already :D
	uxthui	ZAKhan: Thanks for attending today's meeting with us.
* rverrips apologies for the interruption and gives chair back to uxthui
	Haden	Glad to see you guys still actively involved ..
	rverrips	So point number one as per nlsthzn was "LoCo responsibilities (doing the paperwork)"?  
	nlsthzn	Shall I elaborate a bit
	nlsthzn	?
	ragesh_	yes pls
	rverrips	yes please 
	Haden	Yes ...
	nlsthzn	As we get more busy and start doing more it is important we keep up with the less glamorous part of it... "paper work"
	nlsthzn	Case in point - Our wiki 
	nlsthzn	We need to make sure we capture information there
	ragesh_	+1
	nlsthzn	Like our Agenda's, our minutes of meetings and what ever else we can think about
	Haden	+1 to that as well..
	rverrips	+1 for using the wiki more
* uxthui has quit (Ping timeout: 258 seconds)
	nlsthzn	Will make it easier later when we try to become an official loco and to show the people what is happening in the UAE
	amjjawad	+1
	amjjawad	this is what we do in Lubuntu, we try to keep everything on our Wiki
	ragesh_	+!
	ragesh_	+1
* uxthui (0231d343@gateway/web/freenode/ip.2.49.211.67) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	nlsthzn	But part of this is making sure we have people doing it :p
	uxthui	Please excuse me.
	nlsthzn	no worries uxthui , wb
	uxthui	Yes, as nlsthzn was saying, someone needs to responsible to keep everything updated on our Wiki.
	nlsthzn	And for the record, I hate wiki's... they are annoying to work on :p
	Haden	Last time .. I think Bassem  and I updated it .. Bassem doing most of the work :)
	uxthui	nlsthzn already took care a few of our IRC meetings despite his annoyances, so thank you for that!
	amjjawad	If it's about updating, I'm ready but not sure I got the time to write things from scratch 
	nlsthzn	No worries... I think we are starting to have enough "regular" peeps to make "teams" ... so it doens't fall to one person
	uxthui	A certain Ragesh also documented a MoM for our physical meetups it would be great if that was done dirctly on the Wiki.
* rverrips raises his hand for a quick question on Wiki vs. Google Docs
	amjjawad	as some of you may know, I'm so busy with Lubuntu 
	uxthui	rverrips: Please shoot.
	Haden	amjjawad , could you provide a link to the lubuntu wiki ?
	rverrips	Is the reason we're not updating the wiki 'cause folks don't like it? 
	Haden	We could use a few pointers from there ..
	uxthui	rverrips: Cause:
	uxthui	1. I was too lazy
	rverrips	(I mean, it's hard to use, so we don't feel like updating it, etc.) 
	uxthui	2. I didn't find much things to update
	amjjawad	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/amjjawad
	uxthui	3. No one really knows of it.
	nlsthzn	FTR: Making an agenda in Google Docs 5 is much faster and easier than the wiki
	nlsthzn	however the wiki reads better and looks better and is more accessable once the info is there
	ragesh_	I think we dont use wiki more coz we get the email updates for meetup site
	uxthui	Maybe some web application that automatically spews out Wiki formatted text would be a help here? :P
	amjjawad	I know some basics about Wiki so it's not a huge issue for me, it's just I need sometime to do this
	Haden	nlsthzn , the reason we had a wiki was to make ourselves an official loco
	rverrips	If you'd all rather move from a wiki to a Google Apps environment that's easy to achieve … we can do groups in the google apps environment too
	uxthui	rverrips: Haden's point.
	amjjawad	I vote for keeping the wiki and update it every now and then
	amjjawad	Haden: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/amjjawad
	uxthui	amjjawad: We pretty much /need/ to, but dedication on that front is required.
	Haden	If we are still planning on getting ourselves official .. Even in the near future , I vote we stick with wiki 
	nlsthzn	For internal workings Google docs is nice... but eventually we have to capture it in something like the wiki...
	amjjawad	uxthui: as I mentioned, I'm ready and up to this but I'm so busy with Lubuntu. I'd like to be extra honest from day 1 :)
	rverrips	I'd suggest that "wiki" is our "internal workings" for now … 
	Haden	If someone could update google docs , I can copy the same to wiki 
	uxthui	amjjawad: Yes, that's why we don't want to push the responsibility to you/
	amjjawad	it's ok
	amjjawad	if someone will write it, I'll put it on our wiki ;)
	nlsthzn	Suggestion: Who here is able and willing to update the wiki as it is needed on a monthly basis?
	amjjawad	let's do this step by step and eventually, we will reach our goals ;)
	uxthui	nlsthzn: Bi-weekly basis.
	amjjawad	I'm up to this but I need some help of course in regards of what we will put over there
	Haden	nlsthzn , if someone could pass me details as to what has to be updated , I could do it ..
	nlsthzn	uxthui, my point is it must be updated in a timely fashion...
	uxthui	amjjawad: IF you put it that way, maybe I or Haden could be of help.
	amjjawad	then so be it :)
	uxthui	That fine with you Haden?
	nlsthzn	amjjawad, Haden - For now it seems to be our "News" - Which is the agenda for meetings, minutes of meetings when done 
	ragesh_	I can find time for wiki updates but I never tried it so might need some help to start with
	amjjawad	I just need both of you to add me on Gmail or Facebook for faster access
	Haden	I'm ok with it ,. 
	nlsthzn	And as anything else comes up, we need to announce it, and document it (say an installfest etc.)
	amjjawad	Haden: and uxthui I guess you have my Gmail right?
	uxthui	Yep, mailing lists all the way, nlsthzn.
	uxthui	I mean amjjawad.
	amjjawad	:)
	nlsthzn	So, can I say that Haden , amjjawad , ragesh_ are our current wiki team? 
	Haden	We could discuss at the next meeting the layout of the wiki .. 
	Haden	Sure nlsthzn :)
	uxthui	Now on to the second point - anyone got any idea about doing a release party?
	ragesh_	that would be helpfull haden
	uxthui	Oh yes, thanks nlsthzn. amjjawad please make a small page about this small groups as well. :)
	rverrips	I know I wasn't there, but my understanding is the 11.10 release party was quite the hit?
	ragesh_	ya, I enjoed it
	nlsthzn	rverrips, it was fun... not what I expected but then again nobody had expectations or a plan really :p
	rverrips	I guess my question is what can we (or do we need to) do to improve on the 11.10 party …
	Haden	We can skip on actually doing an install this time :)
	uxthui	Yah, but it wasn't anything open that anyone could come and join us (unless they're already part of the Meetup).
	nlsthzn	The next release is the big one.  What ever we do it should be visible and I would like to see a release in Dubai and Abu Dhabi if possible
	uxthui	Haden: Why?
	Haden	The wifi speed was terrible ..
	uxthui	Oh that. Yeah terrible location.
* amjjawad_ (d9a42afa@gateway/web/freenode/ip.217.164.42.250) has joined #ubuntu-ae
	amjjawad_	sorry guys, I have a serious issue with my network :/
	nlsthzn	If we start early enough we can get a better venue, as well as some banners etc.
	amjjawad_	I was saying
* amjjawad has quit (Ping timeout: 258 seconds)
	amjjawad_	[19:51] <amjjawad> so let's put it this way [19:51] <amjjawad> Phase 1 [19:52] <amjjawad> someone will give me the contents and I'll put that on our Wiki
	amjjawad_	is that ok with everyone?
	Haden	Well.. The pavilion is the best location we could get ..
	nlsthzn	amjjawad_, we will hit you with a transcript after the meeting... now we are talking release party
	uxthui	nlsthzn: for that kind of preparation we need a real, booked venue.
	nlsthzn	uxthui, makes sense if we plan on doing it right
	amjjawad_	sorry but I lost the track because my network got disconnected :(
	uxthui	nlsthzn: No, I mean w=to say let's decide on a place before moving onto preparation.
	uxthui	*I mean to
	nlsthzn	sure. we need to make a list of actions and some people to execute
	nlsthzn	But it will help if we know what we are planning too...
	Haden	How do you guys feel about outdoors ? :)
	Haden	Like a park or something ..
	ragesh_	but what abt internet??
	amjjawad_	Sadly I'm living in Al-Ain and I don't have a car :/
	Haden	Well zabeel park has wifi 
	nlsthzn	I think we don't need to beat our heads in now... but we should be aware of the up and coming release and its significants.  We can start fleshing it out on the meetup board or on the mailing list.
	amjjawad_	However, I was planning to move to Dubai in case I'll find a job over there - I'm jobless at the moment 
	uxthui	ragesh_: Regardless of our location, it will be difficult for a lot of people to be upgrading simultaneously,
	Haden	I'd recommend everyone upgrading and then coming 
	uxthui	Rather, I say we bring our own CDs if we want to upgrade on spot.
	Haden	It takes atleast an hour to do an upgrade ..
	Haden	We could spend that time discussing the new features ..etc ..
	nlsthzn	I saw that the release party and upgrade doesn't work that well... but it is an option... we should have phamphlets and lots of CD's
	amjjawad_	Installing doesn't take time I guess
	amjjawad_	I never do upgrades ;)
	rverrips	I'd suggest there is a difference in our needs between a release party where everyone has enough bandwidth to upgrade (This would need some place like a internet cafe of varsity computer lab) vs. a place we can promote the release (which would obviously not have the bandwidth to support a 20xdownloads)
	nlsthzn	rverrips, +1
	amjjawad_	+1
	ragesh_	+1
	nlsthzn	I think I should have a look at Randal Ross's blog again... he has many brilliant ideas on the social side of Ubuntu
	rverrips	But a "Techie" response could also be one of us creates a local mirror on their laptops, and we all upgrade from there, locally … 
	nlsthzn	FTR - http://randall.executiv.es/
	ragesh_	awesome
	rverrips	I'd assume when they seed the final version not too many packages get updated, or do they all get a version update?  Either way, if
	Haden	I could to that .. I could cache the packages to one machine and everyone could download it from there ..
	uxthui	Haden: If you do go ahead with it, set how about a DNS server that ubuntu.com to the local cache server as well?
	rverrips	I would suggest have all the Ubuntu people who want to upgrade in one place doing if from a local mirror would be an awesome show of both the power and community of ubuntu?
	ragesh_	great idea
	Haden	I use a tool called apt-cacher-BG
	Haden	*ng
	nlsthzn	Sounds like a plan
	rverrips	If we're making suggestions, and I'm assuming it's a laptop, get a second wifi card (USB dongle, type) and create a gateway, that way we all connect to you via wifi, and you feed off to whoever is providing it ...
	-RichiH-	[Global Notice] Hi all. We just blogged about SOPA/PIPA on http://blog.freenode.net/2012/01/on-sopapipa/ and suggest you join ##sopa if you are interested in these proposed bills or other discussion around this general topic. As always, have a nice day and thanks for flying freenode air!
	Haden	I have 15 Ubuntu boxes at work and I update them this way 
* rverrips get's dizzy as he dreams of a Wifi SSID called "Release Party" that all attach to and simply hit update and in seconds are running the latest release?
* nlsthzn will definitely be doing a clean install of the LTS (seeing as it is supposed to last 5 years)
	Haden	rverrips :)
	rverrips	to nlsthzn:  don't all LTS last 5 years?
	amjjawad_	Xubuntu = 3 years
	amjjawad_	Kubuntu = 5
	amjjawad_	Lubuntu = NOT LTS :(
	nlsthzn	Now Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Edubuntu do
	nlsthzn	AFAIK
	nlsthzn	Used to be 5 only for server editions
	amjjawad_	Yes indeed nlsthzn 
	nlsthzn	amjjawad_, Lubuntu is still to young for LTS... it needs to grow rapidly :)
	amjjawad_	nlsthzn: it needs more resources ;)
	amjjawad_	May I ask something?
	rverrips	If I wanted a linux distro that stayed the same for 5 years I'd install Redhat :-)
	uxthui	Uh, knock knock, guys.
	amjjawad_	Is there any chance that we could get some T-Shirts for Ubuntu? Mugs? stuff like that?
	uxthui	Since you have at least decided on the technical side of the party, please continue on the mailing list.
	rverrips	Can we appoint a launch party sub-meeting and keep going with the other points?
	uxthui	We won't be able to finish everything about the party now.
	uxthui	rverrips: Excellent idea.
	ragesh_	+1
	uxthui	Are you guys up for it?
	Haden	rverrips +1
	amjjawad_	Ok
	nlsthzn	+1
	uxthui	Right, rverrips will you chair?
	uxthui	You can contact me to post it on MEetup.
	rverrips	Sure … let's set it for next week, same time, same place (IRC)
	rverrips	I'll chair
	uxthui	Right.
	uxthui	Now then, next point of particular interest to nlsthzn is LPIC. Would you please take to the podiums again? :P
	nlsthzn	I will be brief
	amjjawad_	LPIC=?
	nlsthzn	Late last year some of the guys over at ubuntu-za decided to have some sort of study school going through a free study guide to the LPIC. IT fizzled a bit but in there last meeting it was decided to go for it again.  
	nlsthzn	So if anybody here would like to join in they are more than welcome
	nlsthzn	I for one will go for the exam at the end to see if I can actually pass it (just for fun)
	nlsthzn	I did mail the info last year, I think I will do so again
	uxthui	amjjawad_: Linux Proffessional Institute Certification
	nlsthzn	http://www.google.ae/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=lpic&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCsQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Flpi.org%2Flinux-certifications&ei=J_AWT6zuLYP-8QOR4uD1Ag&usg=AFQjCNG6UX753Vaf7dLyZmlKtz3hax_jYQ&sig2=9itZPGzv5kAUse3-yCzetw
	amjjawad_	Oh ok
	amjjawad_	thanks uxthui :)
	nlsthzn	http://lpi.org/linux-certifications
	amjjawad_	can we do that in UAE?
	nlsthzn	yes, the exams can be done here
	amjjawad_	good
	amjjawad_	will keep that in mind, thanks nlsthzn :)
	nlsthzn	I think it will be better discussed on the board on meetup... take this as a FTR
	rverrips	I meet a guy who lives in Dubai and did the LPI … 
	rverrips	It's very much distro agnostic though ...
	nlsthzn	rverrips, which is good
	rverrips	IT prides itself on not being tied to any particular distribution
	amjjawad_	sounds interesting :)
	amjjawad_	any idea how much it costs?
	rverrips	Having Ubuntu promote it may seem counter productive, in the same way we don't promote Free Office as such, etc.
	rverrips	(to amjjawad regards costs) I believe you only pay for the exams 
	rverrips	but you have to do a lot of studying
	nlsthzn	amjjawad_, yup... you can buy books or use resources which are online for free... I will re-send the links to them 
	rverrips	At one stage there was some Ubuntu Certifications available
	nlsthzn	they still are...
	nlsthzn	Which brings us to the next point... the Linux Training I heard being discussed in the last few meetings...
	rverrips	Best solution for LPI (or any certification actually) is get hold of someone who's done it recently and who can mentor  you
	amjjawad_	To be honest, I believe experience has nothing to do with certificates but it's nice to have it
	nlsthzn	rverrips, which is why the study group is to form... with lots of old hands to assist
	amjjawad_	rverrips: that is good idea indeed 
	amjjawad_	I think I'll do this
	nlsthzn	they have some nice plans... I will send the mail when I get a chance... 
	amjjawad_	perhaps it's time to get something like that
	rverrips	(to nlsthzn) please proceed an become an "old hand" to assist us :-)
	nlsthzn	Unlikely... I am one of those desktop users that recently migrated from Windows and can only use Ubuntu because Debian confuses me
	Haden	guys gotta go .. I'll catch up with the minutes .. See you guys later ..
	nlsthzn	Cheers Haden 
	uxthui	Bye Haden. Thanks for attending
	amjjawad_	cya Haden :)
	rverrips	http://lpi.org/  In Dubai I think you can write the exams at Knowledge Villiage that has a Pearson Vue centre
	ragesh_	bye
	nlsthzn	There are many venues... 
	uxthui	Well, that will be all about LPIC, aye nlsthzn? As he says, further details will eb provided through the mailing list.
	nlsthzn	+1
	rverrips	+1 for keeping the meeting moving
	amjjawad_	+1
	uxthui	In regards to the next few topics of Linux Training and Installfests as reported in MoMs (Minutes of MEetings) to the mailing list...
	uxthui	I'm afraid we cannot follow up to what has been discussed by those attendees as all of them are absent in this meeting.
	nlsthzn	Any more info on those... I read that some planning has already happened?
	nlsthzn	Oh bother :/
	nlsthzn	At least it means the meeting just got shorter :p
	uxthui	Until they come out with a new message, or we discuss it with them, at this point we have no idea what they've been planning.
	ragesh_	yes joseph is serious with the plan
	uxthui	So yes, it's basically the end of the meeting.
	amjjawad_	Hey
	uxthui	If you've any idea to shoot, please do.
	amjjawad_	I'm not sure what you guys are talking about but I'm ready to give some training to new comers 
	amjjawad_	WOW Lubuntu is my personal Project that I'm willing to put so much effort on
	amjjawad_	https://www.facebook.com/WOWLubuntu
	nlsthzn	I would like to say thanks to all attending.  With a little effort this year will be the year of Ubuntu as well as the Ubuntu AE LoCo...
	amjjawad_	and I'm ready to give training and stuff
	uxthui	You guys have my thanks for putting up with my crappy chairing skills. I really hope for someone better and regular can take over. But until someone who can fulfill those two conditions appears, please take care of me.
	nlsthzn	amjjawad_, I am myself not sure what is planned, hopefully it will become apparent soon
	amjjawad_	Ok then
	nlsthzn	uxthui, thanks for chairing, you are doing fine
	amjjawad_	will go easy on you guys for now :)
	uxthui	amjjawad_: Joseph's been planning about it, I think you can contact him and offer your help.
	ragesh_	bye guys have a good night ;)
	uxthui	Seeya ragesh_ 
	rverrips	to amjjawad and nlsthzn - A few months ago it was decided at every monthly meet up one of the community would do a presentation / training on a particular subject
	nlsthzn	So now the wiki team can fight about who is going to put this meeting on the wiki seeing as we are not using a bot to make it easies yet ;)
	amjjawad_	I'll try to catch up with him
	rverrips	Toki did one on virtualisation
	nlsthzn	rverrips, yes... we had one
	uxthui	rverrips: Did what?
	rverrips	Toki did a training at the meet up :-)
	rverrips	Don't you remember?
	amjjawad_	I lost the log when I got disconnected
	amjjawad_	if someone can send it to me via Email?
	amjjawad_	and tell me where exactly shall I put it?
* nlsthzn has to go (1 hour for a meeting is enough on little old me)...
	nlsthzn	Cheers all...
	uxthui	Bye, nlsthzn. THanks for taking yer time.
* ragesh_ (56623908@gateway/web/freenode/ip.86.98.57.8) has left #ubuntu-ae
	uxthui	amjjawad_: Go to ubuntu.ae
	uxthui	That currently points to our Wiki page. THere's already a few meeting logs and MoM posted.
* Haden has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
	amjjawad_	full address please?
	amjjawad_	isn't this our Wiki https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EmiratesTeam ???
	rverrips	Yes, that's the Wiki Amjawad
	amjjawad_	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EmiratesTeam/Meetings
	amjjawad_	I need to create a new page calling it  18012012 and add the Log
	amjjawad_	but I lost it so I need someone to Email it to me please
