{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Topic ===

First IRC Meeting. Steps to become an approved LoCo team

=== IRC Meeting Logs ===

Complete logs: <nowiki>[[EmiratesTeam-Meetings-IRCMeetingLogs20110417]]</nowiki>

=== Participants ===

In order of presentation:

# bojicas: SilviuBojica
# hadenx: Haden Pereira
# bassem_mobile: Bassem Jarkas
# TheLive1: Sajjad Rizvi
# rverrips: RoyVerrips
# ifthikhan

In "listening" mode:
 
# nlsthzn-work: Neil Oosthuizen
# joseph_: Joseph John

=== Reported Progress ===

The Emirate LoCo achievements since our last gathering at More Cafe on 6th April:
* new irc channel: #ubuntu-ae on irc.freenode.net
* launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~emirateslocoteam
* new wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EmiratesTeam

=== Common Agreements ===

* Our common goal is to get Emirates LoCo approved as official
* IRC Bots:
** use ubuntulog as official bot (at the moment of editing the mom, ubuntulog is running on our channel as ubuntulo1_)
** use mootbot to monitor/summarize our meetings
* Mailing Lists:
** use current meetup mailing list, until we can take over ownership/co-admin the official ubuntu list, after, we should integrate them by having meetup list as a member of ubuntu.
* on all circumstances we should have a "backup-guy" to co-admin our online tools
* no need for a separate site with separate content like ubuntu-ae.org . However, a redirect of the ubuntu-ae.org or ubunut.ae to our wiki page is welcomed.
* Third party sites:
** Facebook: <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ubuntu-Emirates-Team-LoCo/185867921459214|link]]</nowiki> should provide links to our wiki, meetup page, etc.
** Twitter: ubuntu_ae (we'll try to take over the ownership of the account)
** LinkedIn: a group to be formed with links back to our wiki, meetup page, etc.
* Next meeting on Sunday 24 April 2011 @8:00PM GST - follow-up and release party ideas

=== ACTIONS ===

* all:
** register with Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~emirateslocoteam]]</nowiki>
** like FB page <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ubuntu-Emirates-Team-LoCo/185867921459214|link]]</nowiki>

* bassem_mobile:
** [DONE] follow up to get ubuntulog monitor #ubuntu-ae irc channel 
** follow up with the request ubuntu-ae.org redirect to our wiki page

* hadenx:
** contact scribes team re Mootbot join our #ubuntu-ae irc channel
** [DONE] create the FB page <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ubuntu-Emirates-Team-LoCo/185867921459214|link]]</nowiki> 

* rverrips:
** get admin rights from existing admin (ubuntu-ae mailing list)
** [DONE] coordinate registration of ubuntu.ae and redirect to our wiki <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.ae|link]]</nowiki> 
** get hold of owners of twitter accounts (@ubuntu_ae) and request username/password

* bojicas:
** [DONE] create a Linked In group <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/groups/Ubuntu-UAE-User-Group-3884125|link]]</nowiki>
** prepare agenda and chair next meeting
