{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Carlos Diener / emonkey ==

Deutsche Übersetzung weiter unten. / German translation below.

=== English ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email:
|-
| my launchpad page:
| https://launchpad.net/~emonkey
|-
| Location:
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winterthur|Winterthur near Zurich]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</nowiki>
|}
Occupation: I'm 24 years old and I'm a IT student at the <nowiki>[[http://www.zhaw.ch/en|University of Applied Sciences in Zurich (ZHAW)]]</nowiki>.

I am offering installation and usage support for Ubuntu and Kubuntu.
CDs can be obtained from me but i won't send them to you. For shipping CDs, go to https://shipit.ubuntu.com/.

I'm part of the KubuntuGermanTeam and the Ubuntu SwissTeam. You'll find our next activities always on our Wiki. I was on several booth for Ubuntu and Kubuntu including the last LinuxTag in Berlin. Warty was my first Distro which has freed me from windows and it was my start in contributing to the growing community. Unfortunately my english isn't the best so the biggest part of my activities are in communities which are speaking my native language.

==== current activities ====
* admin and hoster of http://kubuntu-de.org
* supermoderator on http://forum.kubuntu-de.org

==== planned activities ====
* iso-testing
* present on LinuxTag Berlin, Germany
* present on LinuxDay.at in Dornbirn, Austria
* Ubuntu Release Parties in Switzerland
* present/organize further expos/conventions in Switzerland, Germany and Austria

==== past activities ====
* Talk about KDE 4 at Gutsy Release Party in Bern, Switzerland
* organizing ../SwissTeam/ReleasePartyFeisty in Zurich, Switzerland
* booth on LinuxTag 2007 Berlin, Germany
* talk about kubuntu/kde4 on Gutsy Release Party in Bern, Switzerland
* talk about kubuntu on Distrobash at our university
* booth on LinuxDay.at 2007 in Dornbirn, Austria
* talk about kubuntu/kde4 on LinuxDay.at 2007 in Dornbirn, Austria (together with apachelogger/amarok)

==== other commitments ====
I'm an enthusiastic scout with several functions.
* part of the head fo swiss national jamboree contingent
* part of the swiss national scout movement (communication ressort)
* infrastructure officer of the admin area at the national camp 2008
* part of my local association

I'm admin and member of the <nowiki>[[http://urulu.org|urulu.org]]</nowiki> team, an GNU/GPL'ed PHP5 and AJAX based CMS.

=== German / Deutsch ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email:
|-
| Meine Launchpad Seite:
| https://launchpad.net/~emonkey
|-
| Mein Zuhause:
| <nowiki>[[http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winterthur|Winterthur]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schweiz|Schweiz]]</nowiki>
|}

Berufstätigkeit: Nach einer 4-jährigen Berufslehre als Systeminformatiker, studiere ich nun Informatik an der <nowiki>[[http://www.zhaw.ch|Zürcher Hochschule für Angewandte Wissenschaften (ZHAW)]]</nowiki>.

Ich biete Installations- und Bedienungssupport für Ubuntu und Kubuntu an.
CDs können bei mir abgeholt werden, ich versende sie jedoch nicht. Für Versand wendet Euch an https://shipit.ubuntu.com/.

Ich bin Teil des KubuntuGermanTeam und des SwissTeam. Die geplanten Aktivitäten findet man immer aktuell auf unsere Wikiseite. An Ausstellungen und Linuxtagen vertrete ich nach Möglichkeit Ubuntu und Kubuntu. Eine Auflistung der künftigen, aktuellen und vergangenen Aktivitäten ist am Ende des englischen Teils zu finden. Da mein Englisch leider nicht das Beste ist, beschränkt sich der größte Teil meiner Aktivitäten auf deutschsprachige Gemeinschaften.

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
