{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''See also''': BetterIntegratedWineSpec

=== Summary ===

The ed2k network is the largest file-sharing network out there, and the eMule client is the most feature complete program for accessing it.  Smooth inclusion of the eMule program into Ubuntu will allow users to access and distribute content more easily.

Even though it is a Windows program, it is entirely possible to make a proper Ubuntu .deb package out of eMule and have it depend on Wine.

=== Rationale ===

Having eMule easily installable would allow content to be distributed via ed2k links to linux users.  Ed2k links can be more permanent than torrents and are far more friendly for the distribution of smaller files.  Like using torrents, users could access the content quicker, however with ed2k links and proper Firefox integration files can be downloaded in a single click.

Aside from the usefulness of the software itself, the inclusion of a package like eMule would also show how with Wine Win32 can be just another toolkit like GTK or QT, and that the importation of windows programs into Linux need not be a hassle.  The project will be a good demonstration case for how simply Windows software can be directly ported to Ubuntu.

Doing this would make the installation and use of eMule easier on Ubuntu than on Windows itself.  Aside from providing users access to all the useful content eMule has to offer, this would also provide a striking example of Ubuntu's superior usability.  If done right, an example application such as eMule could attract both closed and open source windows developers to supporting the Ubuntu platform.

=== Comments ===

AzraelNightwalker: keep in mind that we already have a good ed2k client for Linux - '''aMule''', which shares most of it's code with eMule. Putting eMule via Wine in Ubuntu IMHO would be redundant and too much hassle.
