{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Project Milestones ==

==== Time line ====

'''2/24/2008'''<<BR>>
A major milestone was met today, the computer lab now has 6 PC's installed with Ubuntu as well as a 48 port switch and new cable runs. The New Mexico Loco will meet again on 3/1/08 to finish the install with 2 more computers install in the lab. One additional computer will be installed in the weight room and a printer and scan station.

'''2/08/2008'''<<BR>>
EPC furniture run up to Los Alamos

'''1/11/2008'''<<BR>>
Meeting to set a date for Computer Lab Install

'''12/5/07'''
Meeting with Sam from [WWW] EPC, and Eric and David from the New Mexico Ubuntu Loco. This meeting was the initial meeting setting up some exceptions and needs for both organizations. Out of this meeting came a greater understanding of what [WWW] EPC does, and for EPC let them know what the New Mexico LoCo is all about. In the future the Loco will be setting up a campus network that will include a computer lab, office computers, and dorm room computers, all tied into a centralized network. Sam (the director of [WWW] EPC) will be gone till January and this should give the New Mexico LoCo ample time to better organize our support structure.

'''11/19/07'''<<BR>>
Sam Slishman from EPC has picked up the PC's.  Final total was 23 PC's, 1 Dell PowerEdge 4400, and 2 3Com 10/100 Sweitches.

'''11/6/07''' <<BR>>
All PC's have been imaged and are ready for pickup EPC has been notified and are coordinating a time. Again A HUGE thanks to New Mexico Ubuntu LoCo Team Member <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrammatonCleric|Eric Krieger]]</nowiki> for all his hard work on this project.

'''10/31/2007'''<<BR>>
Project Begins for the New Mexico LoCo
