{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Desktop-oriented Task List ==

'''Important notes:'''
# Please ''do not'' edit this page before reading about the <nowiki>[[../|Ubuntu engineer certification]]</nowiki>.
# Main points indicate category headings. Bullet points indicate tasks.

=== The Task List ===

Background: Ubuntu is a Debian based distribution that is based on the Linux kernel and is designed for simple user installation, setup, and migration from alternative computer operating systems.

Support: Ability to troubleshoot hardware and software solutions installed on Ubuntu to facilitate business and work processes.

Knowledge: Demonstrate ability to substitute non-proprietary software solutions for proprietary software.

Configuring Gnome

Configure a lockdown (similar to Kiosk in KDE)
* Prevent menu changes / config changes (/etc)

Configuring Major Applications
* with a focus on consistent language integration in word processors, office programs etc.

Setup User Logins
* setup login accounts for multiple users.
* configure the user login window.
* sharing folders in Ubuntu with mounted drives.
* configure a remote login.

Laptops
* configuring advanced power management.
* configuring a network switch for different locations (office, home, hotel, wireless, and wired). Use tools like whereami. (http://packages.debian.org/stable/net/whereami) and guessnet (http://packages.debian.org/stable/net/guessnet)

Installations
* Install software which do not have .deb files (including conversion of rpm files).
* Install, configure, setup software using Synaptic Package Manager.
* Add/Remove software installations.

Documentation
* reporting bugs.
* documenting solutions.
* reporting solutions.

Integration
* Validate user accounts against (open) LDAP/AD.
* Setup CUPS to use CUPS server/Microsoft file & Print server.

Configure Users and Groups
* Configure user settings.
* Manage Group settings (modify, update user permissions)

Backing Up Ubuntu
* Create system backups of user files.

Log and debug files
* Reviewing log files for troubleshooting.

Upgrading Ubuntu
* Upgrading Ubuntu to a newer version.
