{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu in the Enterprise (sketch) ==

Entry - introduction notes on the whole thing.

=== Authentication against a central server ===
'' <nowiki>[[Enterprise-Authentication|→ Actions on fixing authentication in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.redhat.com/rhecm/rest-rhecm/jcr/repository/collaboration/jcr:system/jcr:versionStorage/ae40084d0a052601783f1ea42715cdef/26/jcr:frozenNode/rh:resourceFile|Integrating Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 with Active Directory]]</nowiki>
==== VAS/QAS/DAS ====

==== SSSD ====
<nowiki>[[Enterprise-Authentication-sssd| HowTo]]</nowiki>

You may also be interested in <nowiki>[[Enterprise-Authentication-KerberosServices| Kerberos Services HowTo]]</nowiki>

==== Samba 4.0 ====

==== Likewise Open ====

==== Beyondtrust ====

==== Centrify ====

==== NSS-LDAP / Kerberos ====

You may also be interested in <nowiki>[[Enterprise-Authentication-KerberosServices| Kerberos Services HowTo]]</nowiki>

=== Configuration management tools ===

Description of tools used for system management aligning those to the policy. As the tools are pretty large and complex, we may want to separate those to other wikis.

==== CFEngine 3 ====

==== cfengine 2 ====

==== Puppet ====

==== Chef ====

==== Manual scripts ====

=== Package management ===

==== Automatic upgrades ====

==== Landscape ====

=== Services pre-configuration ===

==== Firewall ====

==== Printers ====

=== System inventory tools ===

==== Landscape ====

=== Automated installation / Deploying ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com/sites/default/files/active/Whitepaper-Automated-Ubuntu-Deployments-v1.pdf|Technical Whitepaper from Canonical: Automated deployments of Ubuntu (2008)]]</nowiki>
* http://davidmburke.com/2012/04/26/ubuntu-12-04-deployment-with-active-directory/

==== Cobbler ====
Automated Installation over Network with Cobbler: <nowiki>[[Enterprise-Cobbler]]</nowiki>

==== Preseeding ====
* <nowiki>[[Enterprise-WorkstationAutoinstallPreseed|Enterprise Wiki: fully automated Workstation Autoinstall]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/installation-guide/example-preseed.txt|Offical example with many useful annotations and references]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://searchitchannel.techtarget.com/feature/Performing-an-automated-Ubuntu-install-using-preseeding|Article on preseeding]]</nowiki>

==== Kickstart ====
* https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/i386/automatic-install.html

==== FAI ====

=== Office applications ===

==== LibreOffice ====

==== Google Apps ====

==== MS Office with Crossover ====

==== MS Office with Wine ====

=== Email ===

==== Exchange ====

==== IBM Lotus Notes ====

==== Zimbra ====

==== Generic IMAP+SMTP ====

==== Custom calendaring? ====

=== VPN ===

==== Cisco VPN ====

==== Juniper VPN ====

==== OpenVPN ====

==== Other? ====

=== Other tools ===

==== Sun/Oracle Java 6/7/8 ====
PPA for 7/8: http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/install-oracle-java-8-in-ubuntu-via-ppa.html

===== Preseed Kickstart =====
`preseed --owner oracle-java8-installer shared/accepted-oracle-license-v1-1 boolean true`<<BR>>
`preseed --owner oracle-java8-installer shared/accepted-oracle-license-v1-1 seen true`

===== Preseed in Scripts =====

`echo "oracle-java8-installer shared/accepted-oracle-license-v1-1 select true | debconf-set-selections"`
`echo "oracle-java8-installer shared/accepted-oracle-license-v1-1 seen true | debconf-set-selections"`

==== Microsoft TrueType fonts ====
===== Preseed EULA =====
http://askubuntu.com/questions/16225/how-can-i-accept-microsoft-eula-agreement-for-ttf-mscorefonts-installer/25614#25614

==== Adobe Reader ====

==== Adobe Flash Player ====

=== Desktop Administration ===
* GNOME Sysadmin → http://library.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/
* GNOME 2.4 Desktop System Administration Guide → http://people.gnome.org/~shaunm/admin-guide/
* Oracle Solaris 11.1 Desktop Administrator's Guide→ http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E26502_01/html/E28056/toc.html

==== Autoconfiguration / Customization of Firefox ====
* Use <nowiki>[[https://addons.mozilla.org/de/firefox/addon/cck/|CCK-Wizard]]</nowiki> to create a customized extension
* Package with <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/mozilla-devscripts|Mozilla Devscripts]]</nowiki> for deploying (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Packaging/Training/Logs/2010-04-22|guide how to do it]]</nowiki>)
''For some more details contact <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/%7Eit-oas/+contactuser|user it-oas]]</nowiki>''

==== Autoconfiguration of Thunderbird ====

==== Autoconfiguration of other apps ====

=== Desktop Virtualization | Remote applications/desktops ===
''''KVM'''' is state of the art, included in the Linux Kernel and very robust. For KVM there are many manager tools and frontends. Virt-Manager is the
GUI tool that can be used for most of the tasks. Red Hat Enterprise
Virtualisation (RHEV) or oVirt are Enterprise class Virtualisation tools
like Vmware/Citrix using KVM.

''''Xen'''' is the other big OS Virtualisation technology, but it's no longer
state of the art. Eventhough Oracle/Citrix which build on Xen claim
otherwise.

''''Virtualbox'''' is another technology developed by Sun and aquired by Oracle.
For personal use Virtualbox is great as it has a easy interface and
support for graphics acceleration.

For Desktop ''''Virtualisation with Thin clients'''' or remote access there are
different protocols. More or less performant and more or less open source.

''''RHEV/oVirt'''' uses SPICE http://www.spice-space.org/ which is specifically
designed for VDI. It is great in performance and allows passing of local
hardware / Sound etc.

Sidenote:
For accessing the Video Console of RHEV/oVirt, a Firefox extension is
needed. Unfortuately that package is not provided by official ubuntu
Repos. Even though Canonical is "strategic partner" of the oVirt
project, nobody seems to care.

A while ago I opened a Bug where I asked and pushed for a package of spice-xpi for Ubuntu: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/943510
Jason Brooks from Red Hat then created a package for Ubuntu and put it in his PPA, which works fine.
https://launchpad.net/~jasonbrooks/+archive/ppa
If anyone knows somebody who can help fixing that, I would very
appreciate that.''

(Source: https://lists.launchpad.net/enterprise-ubuntu/msg00085.html)

''''Ulteo'''' - As I <nowiki>[[http://davidmburke.com/2012/12/04/review-of-ulteo-open-virtual-desktop/|mentioned in my blog]]</nowiki> the configuration is a pain in my experience. I do really enjoy it as a way to put some random windows app like IE so Linux clients can run it in seamless "portal" mode. It's easier for users to understand than traditional rdp. However I have had issues with people who use it all day every day. Seamless rdp is just buggy. Unity has no idea what is going on with it when used in multi window applications and that can confuse users when they switch between windows. I ended up having these few users just use plain rdp. The people who use it once in a blue moon seem to love it though for the convenience. Ulteo also has a full desktop mode but I don't use it and can't comment. I also don't use Ulteo for Linux applications but it can be used for such. I don't think it's possible to pxe boot directly into a Ulteo desktop environment. You have to use a web portal.

''''Proxmox'''' - This is my preferred solution for server virtualization. It's a gui for KVM and openvz. I minimally trained sys admin can set up a new VM in minutes with it. I have had times where the GUI doesn't work and I had to use CLI. Still I like it better than pure CLI. I also found the upgrade to 2.x unpleasant.

''''LTSP'''' - Have you considered this? It's not virtualization it's just multi user Linux. I use it in a computer lab type scenario. I've posted about it http://davidmburke.com/2012/02/26/computer-lab-on-the-cheap/ The issues it has (video processing, external devices are hit or miss) are likely going to be issues with any solution for desktop virtualization. I am also a fool and don't use a server with a decent GPU made for this sort of thing. If you need windows apps I suppose you could use seamless RDP or Ulteo in your LTSP image but I have never tried this. In terms of cheapness LTSP is hard to beat. It's very easy to maintain. Need a new application for all clients? apt-get install on the server. Done. Clients don't have to reboot or anything (maybe they would if they were fat clients?). Initial setup isn't bad either. I used the edubuntu documentation.''

(Source: https://lists.launchpad.net/enterprise-ubuntu/msg00089.html)

==== Citrix XenDesktop/XenApp ====

Citrix virtualization solutions are popular on the market. Being backed by open-source Xen solution they may be considered as a viable option to use for applications you cannot use directly on your desktop.

The Citrix Receiver is missing some features and has a number of bugs (November 2012). Here is a guide to deploy the Receiver to Ubuntu machines:

<nowiki>[[Enterprise-Remote-CitrixReceiver|Deploying Citrix Receiver]]</nowiki>

Ubuntu Help contains an article on Citrix Receiver as well:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CitrixICAClientHowTo

==== VMware View ====

==== RedHat VDI ====

==== Remote Desktop with RDP and VNC ====

==== Providing Ubuntu apps to Windows users ====

I think the above would mostly be used for accessing Windows applications. However, some use cases suggest going the other way round or using Linux apps remotely from Linux. Provisioning of Linux apps comes here :)
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryEnterprise]]</nowiki>
