{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Potential Needs ===
''(This list is taken from the collaborative pad from UDS-R IT-Manager Session)''

'''You are very welcome to add your needs to the list.'''

* Puppet/cfengine/etc used to control servers and clients (desktops)
** No common rules shared between companies. Can we change that?

* Landscape: Who uses it for what?
** Staged roll-outs (canary rollout)
** Managing Updates
** Internal landscape
** Anything else we need to know?
** Useful API Examples

* Secure printing

* Mass Deployment
** Using MAAS and JUJU
** Preseeding the alternative CD
** Preseed dpgk-packages for silent install (in a script or with the alternative CD)
** Citrix: sudo sh -c "echo icaclient icaclient/accepteula select true | debconf-set-selections"
             sudo sh -c "echo ctxusb ctxusb/accepteula select true | debconf-set-selections"
** Java (deprecated) 
** ttf-mscorefonts-installer: sudo sh -c "echo ttf-mscorefonts-installer msttcorefonts/accepted-mscorefonts-eula select true | debconf-set-selections"
** Adobe not as default viewer (see http://www.h-online.com/open/news/item/Google-warns-of-using-Adobe-Reader-particularly-on-Linux-1668153.html)
    
    → We should have something like charms in JuJu to define/run common tasks
    
* Active Directory Integration
** VAS/QAS/DAS?
** SSSD
** Samba 4.0?
** Likewise Open
** Beyondtrust
** Centrify
** NSS-LDAP / Kerberos

* User Desktop preparation
** Preinstall printers
** Modify user desktop (starters, background, login)
** GNOME / Unity Lockdown
    
* Private Packaging
** Setup a own archive
** Package existing (binary) software
    → Verified 'Ubuntu in the Enterprise' team members should get a Private PPA on request

* Exchange Calendar integration with default mail client (Thunderbird)
    http://www.1st-setup.nl/wordpress/?page_id=133

* Root logging
** Logging all activity on the machine _after_ the user becomes root

* Is OpenJDK OK for the enterprise?
** There are some applications, hardware solutions that require Oracles JDK

* Managed/Business Ubuntu community. The needs are:
** people commitment
** mailing list (perhaps on https://lists.ubuntu.com/)
** A Launchpad Team: This would give us a ppa and a mailinglist 
** How open should the team be? Would new members have to apply? I'd say open group
** wiki pages. There are some pages that started the effort but seemed to have been abandoned:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Enterprise
** https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CorporateUbuntu
** forum topic?
** submissions of howtos for particular topic (there's a lot of topics)
** submissions of ready-made tools

* Enterprise Networking → https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EnterprisePlugNPlay

=== Other points to merge with the above list ===

* Read/Write NTFS partitions ??
* Active Directory Domain authentication
* MS Exchange connectivity
* MS Office compatibility -> LibreOffice/MS Office via the WINE project
* Logon scripts ??
* Group policy profiles ??
* VPN client
* Deployment options ??
