{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 19.10 Eoan Ermine ==

Please see <nowiki>[[EoanErmine-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Xubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/19.10/release-notes | Xubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

<<BR>>
== Getting Ubuntu Studio Eoan Ermine (19.10) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/19.10/release | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/19.10/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

=== Upgrading to Ubuntu Studio 19.10 ===
'''NOTE: If you have enabled the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/BackportsPPA | Ubuntu Studio Backports PPA]]</nowiki>, make sure you remove it.'''

To remove the Backports PPA, open a terminal window and type:

<pre>
 sudo apt install ppa-purge
 sudo ppa-purge ppa:ubuntustudio-ppa/backports
</pre>

If for whatever reason this PPA removal fails, continue with the upgrade as usual.

'''To upgrade:'''

Open a terminal and type the following:
<pre>
 sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

Follow the instructions in the terminal.

<<BR>>
== Changes for this release (compared to 19.04 Disco Dingo) ==

* Wallpapers have been split into three packages:
** '''ubuntustudio-wallpapers''' - the default installed wallpapers, including the wallpaper set from 18.10
** '''ubuntustudio-wallpapers-disco''' - the default wallpaper from 19.04
** '''ubuntustudio-wallpapers-xenial''' - wallpapers included in 16.04, 16.10, 17.04, 17.10, and 18.04
** '''ubuntustudio-wallpapers-legacy''' - wallpapers included prior to 16.04

=== Audio ===

* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/UbuntuStudioControls|Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki>''' has been upgraded to Version 1.11.3. Many changes have been made for the Eoan Release, and the following is a summary of some of those changes:
** Now includes an indicator to show whether or not Jack is running
** Added Jack backend selections: Firewire, ALSA, or Dummy (used for testing configurations)
** Added multiple PulseAudio bridges
** Added convenient buttons for starting other configuration tools
** Multiple bug fixes
** For more information about Ubuntu Studio Controls, see:
** The README
** The manpages for ubuntustudio-controls, autojack and ubuntustudio-system
* '''<nowiki>[[https://github.com/Houston4444/RaySession|RaySession]]</nowiki>''' has been added to the default installation of Ubuntu Studio and to the Ubuntu Repositories.
** Replaces gladish and the LADI Session Handler (which are abandoned upstream)
** API-compatible with NON Session Manager, supporting many applications already included.
** When paired with Carla provides superior session management to the previously used LADI tools.
** NOTE: application uses absolute paths for session management, therefore session files may not be portable between machines.
* Audacity upgraded to version 2.3.2

=== Graphics ===

* Krita upgraded to version 4.2.6
* Blender upgraded to version 2.80
* ufraw has been removed from the repositories as development ceased in 2015 and is incompatible with the current version of Gimp. For those affected, we suggest you find a new workflow for working with RAW images.

=== Publishing ===

* no changes

=== Video ===

* OBS Studio is now included by default (version 23.2.1). This is a much-requested feature will allow video recording and live-streaming to several platforms out-of-the-box. It is Jack-enabled.
* kdenlive upgraded to version 19.08

<<BR>>
== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.80
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v19.08
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v4.2.6
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.10.8
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjackctl | qJackCtl]]</nowiki> v0.5.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v5.12.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.4.8
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v2.6.0 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi]]</nowiki> v0.999
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v0.92.4
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/carla | Carla]]</nowiki> v2.0.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntustudio-controls | Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki> v1.11.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obs-studio | OBS Studio]]</nowiki> v23.2.1

<<BR>>
== Known Problems ==

* There is an issue where Ubuntu Studio may freeze at boot when run inside a virtual machine. However, since Ubuntu Studio is not designed to run in a virtual machine for performance reasons, we do not support this method of using Ubuntu Studio. If you wish to try Ubuntu Studio, burn it to a DVD or run it from a USB drive.

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1851346|A problem has been discovered with the package selection portion of the installer]]</nowiki> where if one package is unselected then all other packages within the same category (metapackage) get inadvertently uninstalled. 

* '''FIXED''': A problem has been discovered related to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-volumed/+bug/1291855|this bug in xfce4-volumed]]</nowiki> where a user's hardware volume keys will not respond after restarting !PulseAudio, such as when starting and stopping Jack. xfce4-volumed has been replaced by xfce4-pulsaudio-plugin in the panel, and xfce4-volumed is no longer included in Ubuntu Studio.

* Ubuntu Studio uses the same XFCE desktop environment as the official Xubuntu release, and thus, may be affected by some of the same issues.  This is also true of the core packages of the mainline Ubuntu release.  You can see their release notes <nowiki>[[https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/19.10/release-notes|here]]</nowiki> (Xubuntu) and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EoanErmine/ReleaseNotes|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu)

* Timidity (not installed by default) has been known to cause problems with audio configurations on Ubuntu and will lock-up ALSA.
 
<<BR>>
== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Eoan Ermine (19.10) will be supported for 9 months until July 2020. If you need Long Term Support, it is recommended you use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | Ubuntu Studio Bionic 18.04]]</nowiki> with the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/BackportsPPA|Ubuntu Studio Backports PPA]]</nowiki> instead.

<<BR>>
== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
