{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Epson AcuLaser C1100 printer in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid Lynx) ===

This page describes how to set up the Epson AcuLaser C1100 printer in Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid Lynx) on the standard i386 platform (32 bit).  For instructions on how to get this printer to work on 64bit versions of Ubuntu please refer to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EpsonAcuLaserC110064bit and also read the comments on <nowiki>[[http://whatisthegrid.co.uk/blog/2013/06/epson-c1100n-ubuntu-12-04-and-apparmor/|this blog post]]</nowiki>.

=== Make a place for the install files ===

'''Open an terminal via ACCESSORIES > TERMINAL & make a directory as explained below to store your installation files;'''

''mkdir epson_install''

'''move to the installation directory you just created;'''

''cd epson_install''

=== Get & extract the install files ===

'''get the installation files from our website http://000it.com'''

''wget http://000it.com/files/epson_c1100/epson_c1100_install.tar.gz''

'''extract the compressed file;'''

''tar -zxvf epson_c1100_install.tar.gz''

=== Install files ===

'''install the deb installation files you have just extracted;'''

''sudo dpkg -i *.deb''

from here you can install your Epson C1100 just as you would normally install any other printer using the SYSTEM > ADMINISTRATION > PRINTERS menu. When/if called for the ppd (PostScript® printer description) file, please point to the "epson_install" directory & select the file Epson-AL-C1100-fm3.ppd

=== Epson AcuLaser C1100 printer in breezy ===

This page describes how to set up the Epson AcuLaser C1100 printer in breezy (Ihave not tested this on hoary but i guess it works).

=== Get what you need ===

Make sure the following are installed via synaptic

* CUPS
* FooMatic
* libcupsys and libcupsys2-dev
* build-essential

get the printing filter from <nowiki>[[http://www.avasys.jp/english/linux_e/dl_laser.html|www.avasys.jp]]</nowiki>. Click on Form to Download and select your printer model, country and so on. Then click on the link that says SourceFile in the CUPS section.

=== Install the Filter and the Printer ===

Open a terminal and cd to the directory where you saved the filter package.

'''Extract the Package:'''

''tar xvfz Epson-ALC1100-filter-1.0.tar.gz''

''cd Epson-ALC1100-filter-1.0''

'''Install the filter :'''

''./configure''

''make''

''sudo make install''

'''Restart CUPS and install the printer :'''

''sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart''

''lpadmin -p alc1100 -E -v usb:/dev/usb/lp0 -m Epson-AL-C1100-fm3.ppd''

This should be it! Your printer is now up and running :-)
