{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/equalizer-for-sound-out
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': Leif Linse
* '''Packages affected''': ?
* '''See also''': 

=== Summary ===

A real time Equalizer for sound out.

=== Rationale ===

==== Equalizer basics ====
A equalizer is a tool that transform the sound in a defined way. The ways that the sound can be transformed is by changing the strenght (volume) of the sound in independent frequency bands. 

One important aspect of a equalizer is how many bands there are, and how the frequency space is divided up in to a set of bands, ie which boarder values to use. Another important aspect is how many dB (decibel) it can turn up/down the sound. 

==== Requrements for this Equalizer ====
* It should operate on sound out in real time. 
* It should have >= 10 frequency bands.
* It should allow +/- 24 dB or more. 

* Via a GUI and a CLI users shall be able to 
** change the volume of each frequency band
** turn on/off the equalizer
** save and load profiles (A profile contain the volume of each band.)
** do operations on all bands such as multiplicy all band volumes with a value. This can perhaps be implemented as a slider.

=== Use Cases ===

** Johns Subwoofer is too loud compared with the Speakers. So he would like to lower the Basses. But he can't do so with some players that doesn't have an Equalizer.

=== Scope ===

This specification covers feature specifications for Ubuntu and Launchpad. It is not meant as a more general specification format. - I dont understand what to put here

=== Design ===

...

==== Summary ====

...

==== Rationale ====

===== Why +/- 24 dB or more? =====
While people with normal hearing would probaly work out fine with +/- 12 dB, people with hearing loss that differ a lot betwen low and high frequencies will find +/- 12 dB too limiting. About 10% of the population suffer from hearing loss. 
This should be the description of '''why''' this spec is being defined.

==== Scope and Use Cases ====

...

==== Implementation Plan ====

...

=== Implementation ===

Should this tie in with PulseAudio (<nowiki>[[http://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cleanup-audio-jumble]]</nowiki>)? - -- funkyHat 
=== Outstanding Issues ===

...

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Added idea
----
CategorySpec
