{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Personal Info ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Real Name
| Eric Reynolds
|-
| Email
| 
|-
| AIM
| C Eric Reynolds
|-
| irc.freenode.net
| cerdg
|-
| Launchpad Profile
| https://launchpad.net/people/c.eric.reynolds
|-
| Location
| Texas, U.S.
|}

=== A Little About Me ===

I am a 26 year old Sys Admin from the depths of Northeast Texas.  Ubuntu is my first "real" go at Linux, although I did play with Red Hat 9.0 a while back, and Fedora Core more recently, and I do put a few shell commands to use at work.  This is the first time I have completely wiped $REDMONDOS$ from my system and gave any Linux distro a fair shake, and I was thoroughly impressed with Kubuntu and Ubuntu my very first time through both of them.  Now that I have had a few months to learn the ins and outs, I think it is time I started giving back to the community.  I don't have much experience with programming, however I have an uncanny ability to find information as long as it exists on the web.  

My interests outside the realm of computing include my beautiful fiance, and my very first love, music.  To my neighbors' horror, I play my guitars through all hours of the night.  I do, however, prefer to listen to accomplished musicians of nearly every instrument and genre.

=== My Place with Ubuntu ===

My biggest contribution in the last several months has been advocacy, since I haven't contributed anywhere else yet.  I have my brother using it for his daily computing needs, and dual booting with that other OS or using his Macintosh to do Art.  I also, by example, convinced my fiance that Ubuntu was the way to go, and that's all the proof she needed.  She backed up the files she did not want to lose one night, and completely formatted her hard drive.  Of course I was nominated to support both systems, but it is still much easier than supporting the machines at work.  Several of my friends are dual booting Ubuntu at this point, and one of my friends who is system-less has decided he would give Ubuntu a shot so he could actually have a computer up and running without having to buy software right off the bat.

I have also submitted an eHow article about <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ehow.com/Configure-Home-DSL-for-Use-in-Ububtu-Linux|How to configure home DSL for Ubuntu Linux]]</nowiki>, and plan on submitting more general Ubuntu help articles on there as well as in the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> as well as helping out on the Ubuntu and Kubuntu IRC channels as much as time will allow.

Hopefully I will be able to get my programming skills up to speed, since I have done little besides make small gaming utilities in the past (small things like calculators for skills and a personal MUD client that will never be finished).  I am ready to dig in and help out wherever I can.

----
CategoryHomepage
