{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text-align:center; font-size: 0.80em; border: solid; width: 100%; background-color: #C8C8C8 ; font-weight: bold;"> {*} <nowiki>[[ArizonaTeam|Arizona Team]]</nowiki><<BR>>
| {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=209|Forums]]</nowiki>
| {*} <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-az|Mailing List]]</nowiki> <<BR>>(<nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-az/|archives]]</nowiki>)
| {*} #ubuntu-arizona <<BR>>(<nowiki>[[http://azloco.com/~ircstats/|stats ]]</nowiki>)
| {*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-arizona/|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
| {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.cafepress.com/ubuntu_arizona/|Store]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {{http://ubuntuone.com/3CBelxv23z3dA6JukCcsib|alt personal photo|width=200 height=300}}
| {{http://ubuntuone.com/7KwnMZ7ScgOj38rlblJxdx|alt AzLoCo Black Banner}}
|}

=== Eric Arellano ( erroric ) ===
------
I am a 25yr old linux advocate. I started by visiting my local Ubuntu LoCo and haven't been able to get enough ever since. Being the type of a person that seeks out problems to solve, I saw this to be a great field of occupation to dive deep into. After dedicating alot of time to learning by doing and taking a couple classes at a local community college, I began applying for open posistions as a Server Administrator. With the help of my team with AzLoCo I learned enough to hold my own! It took some persistence that I only had with the support of other team members. I would be nowhere without the team!

=== Contact Me ===
-----
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C8C8C8> IRC
| erroric
|-
| <#C8C8C8> GTalk
| eric.c.arellano
|-
| <#C8C8C8> E-mail
| ericcc@azloco.com
|-
| <#C8C8C8> Website
| <nowiki>[[http://www.thelinuxcafe.com|www.thelinuxcafe.com]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===
-----
 {*} Participation with the AzLoCo installfests 

 {*} Weekly IRC meetings

 {*} Help answer questions at irc.freenode.org #Ubunutu-Us-Az

 {*} Promote the use of Ubuntu to family & friend

 {*} Operate as a stand in to lead the weekly AzLoCo IRC meetings

 {*} Designed newsletter template for AzLoCo Distribution

 {OK} Always looking for more ways to participate...
 
 {*} <nowiki>[[codeofconductsetup|CodeOfConduct Steps]]</nowiki>

=== Interests ===
-----
 {*} '''scripting''' - bash, sh, PHP, ruby

 {*} '''development''' - backend, serverside, automation

 {*} '''command line''' - CLItools

 {*} '''cloud''' - smaller HDD, bigger applications

 {*} '''servers''' - its my job {OK} ;-)

 {*} '''security & privacy''' - firewalls, bugs, infosec

=== Future Goals ===
-----
I want to help spread the word of open source community driven projects, making Ubuntu more than just a contender for the majority Desktop OS.
* Continue & Advance the monthly team newsletter

** give people an easy way to contribute to the LoCo

** spread the word...

* Venture to some more of the Arizona State events centered around Linux

* Lean more Ubuntu Server Security

* Participate with a hackfest/"bug bounty"

=== Employment ===
-----
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C8C8C8>''' June 2013 - Present '''
|-
| Appointment-Plus   Scottsdale, Az
|-
| {*} System Administrator
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C8C8C8>''' Feb 2007 - June 2013 '''
|-
| Vesta Tr. Corp   Scottsdale, Az
|-
| {*} Project Support/Machine Operator
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C8C8C8>''' 2006 - 2007 '''
|-
| Flood the Desert   Scottsdale, Az
|-
| {*} Graphic Designer
|}

=== Belief ===
-----
'''* OPEN SOURCE * PRIVACY * CROWD-SOURCED * COMMUNITY * '''

I believe in a very open source community. The way I see it, you'll never know the full potential of something until you open it to all those willing to help. I don't hold it against anyone who wants to release proprietery code, but I do not think it can reach its full potential. I also believe in the right of privacy, a person should be able to live their life not wondering if someone is going to pull up a file from years ago with their name on it. If privacy is something to be had, a person should very well be allowed to have it and take ownership to the extent that they wish.

=== Testimonials ===
-----
I am always looking for testimonials. If you know me and would like to write something about how I've helped you or if you have seen me help someone, please send me an email ericcc@azloco.com or leave me a comment here!

=== Within Ubuntu ===
-----
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C8C8C8>'''UbuntuHams'''
| '''Aug2013'''
|}

----
CategoryArizonaTeam
