{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Rationale ===

Users of the Ubuntu Operating System have entrusted Canonical employees and vetted third-parties with the data submitted in error reports. It is important for us to balance this trust against the desire to see more problems fixed in the software shipped in Ubuntu, a desire shared with these users.

The developers of the software shipped in Ubuntu are more likely to understand the cause of bugs, and are more likely to make the correct changes to remedy them.

We will open up access to the data on https://errors.ubuntu.com, but only to those who agree to the conditions below.

=== Guidelines for usage ===

* You will not download a large set of the data found on https://errors.ubuntu.com for offline processing.
* You will not share the protected data on https://errors.ubuntu.com with the public. If someone has signed the non-disclosure agreement, they will be able to see the same protected URL.
* You are encouraged to investigate issues in any software listed, but behaviour that looks like mining for sensitive information will result in loss of access and open yourself up to legal action by both Canonical and the community members.

=== Rules for approval ===

* You will provide an explanation of why you would like access, and primarily for what software applications you would monitor errors.
* You must be a developer of these software applications, or someone who is active in the communities built around these applications.
* You will create an account on https://launchpad.net and provide us with the username of this account.
* You will agree to sign a non-disclosure agreement before access is granted.
