{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The Ubuntu project will hopefully be participating in Google's Summer of Code 2013. This page is linked to from the Summer of Code <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GoogleSoC2013/Ideas|Ideas]]</nowiki> page.

=== What is the Error Tracker? ===
Ubuntu’s error tracker explains crashes, hangs, and other severe errors to end users; lets them report an error with the click of a button; and collects these reports from millions of users to show Ubuntu developers <nowiki>[[https://errors.ubuntu.com|which errors are most common]]</nowiki>.

=== How can you help, and get paid by Google for your work? ===

What follows is a list of project ideas that relate to the Ubuntu Error Tracker and that the <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~daisy-pluckers|team]]</nowiki> is willing to sponsor.

* Add support to the Ubuntu desktop to collect more error types and for daisy.ubuntu.com to process them. This could include, but it not limited to: application hangs, debconf dialogs or conffile prompts appearing, and Ubuntu installation failures.
* Implement the "Send an error report if a problem prevents login" functionality.
* Finish implementing "Show previous error reports."
* Implement the "<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ErrorTracker#A.2BIBw-What.2BIBk-s_unusual_about_this_error.2BIB0-|What's unusual about this error report?]]</nowiki>" section of the problem page design.
* Add <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ErrorTracker#Front_page|filtering by by package set (-proposed, Ubuntu Server, Kubuntu, etc)]]</nowiki> to the front page of http://errors.ubuntu.com.
