{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Code Of Conduct Steps ===
----
tutorial I followed, minus the key generation: http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/2010/12/22/004-SigningCoC
----
<pre> caution
 {*} '''You ''must'' remember your passphrase'''
A key without its passphrase becomes useless. There will be much hassel and you will need to "re-key" all your contacts as well as change any client settings with new keys.
Suggestion:
I highly suggest the use of a third-party password storage application. I store my keys & passphrases in a keepassx .kdb
</pre>
----
'''Open up a terminal and run:'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C0C0C0> :~$ gpg --gen-key
|}
* you can just hit enter for all the defaults
** slowly hit enter until it asks for your name, email, and comment
  ''('''comments are good if you want to remember what you are creating this for or if you are creating this specifically for certain group or purpose''')''
** then you will have to give it some time, click around, go to another screen and check a website, type some stuff.
  ''('''you do this so it gives the key generation some random bits to encrypt your passphase with. Giving you a "truly" random key''')''
----
===== Information you get when once your key is generated: =====
^copy and paste this information into a .txt file for your records^
----
gpg: key '''xxxxxxxx''' marked as ultimately trusted
public and secret key created and signed.

gpg: checking the trustdb
gpg: 3 marginal(s) needed, 1 complete(s) needed, PGP trust model
gpg: depth: 0  valid:   4  signed:   0  trust: 0-, 0q, 0n, 0m, 0f, 4u
pub   1111F/R3E12345 2013-08-25
      Key fingerprint = xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
uid                  Name (comment) <e-mail>
sub   1111F/R3E12345 2013-08-25
----

'''upload to keyserver.ubuntu.com'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C0C0C0 > :~$ gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --send-keys XXXXXXXX
|}
''fill the x's with the key you got once you generated your key. (refrence bold above)''
----
==== go to launchpad.net ====
----
* log in
* click to edit OpenPGP keys:
* copy and paste your fingerprint into the fingerprint field
* launchpad will email you an encrypted message
* open email, save to a text file and decrypt it:
* open terminal and run this command: 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C0C0C0> :~$ gpg --decrypt '''<filename>'''
|}
* there will be a link at the bottom of your message
* click that link, click the continue button
* '''OpenPGP key will be uploaded to Launchpad.net! '''
----
==== Now to sign the Code of Conduct ====
----
navigate to: '''launchpad.net/codeofconduct'''
Click to Download the code of conduct
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#C0C0C0> gpg --clearsign UbuntuCodeofConduct-2.0.txt.asc
|}
(( if an error comes up saying no public key, try..
gpg -u <key> --clearsign UbuntuCodeofConduct-2.0.txt.asc ))
go back to browser, click "sign it" button
copy and paste the new .asc createdfile into the open field and click continue

----
That should redirect you to a page showing your signed CodeOfConduct!

If you have any issues, feel free to contact me via the IRC or E-mail!
