{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Core themes ===

Focus on better operation of what we have right now first. So ensure that the retracers work really well (ddebs in librarian, etc), and that we can repair failed retraces into complete buckets. Get the graphs producing accurate, helpful information.

=== Unsorted ===

* 24 hours in a day, 7 days in a week, 30 days in a month, 365 days in a year. Blocked on current disk usage in Cassandra cluster.
* --(<nowiki>[[https://forms.canonical.com/reports/|NDA]]</nowiki>)-- and open access to sanitised data.
* GPU hangs work with RAOF.
* Ubuntu Server error reporting [ <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2013-May/006607.html|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-server/2013-May/006614.html|2]]</nowiki> ].
* Ubuntu Mobile <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/5693714/|error reporting]]</nowiki>. Application hangs under Mir?
* Investigate state of kernel OOPS reports. Create system-level unit tests for kernel OOPS with help from Andy and Colin King.
* Get weighted average errors per calendar day landed and working, <nowiki>[[https://rt.admin.canonical.com/Ticket/Display.html?id=61259|RT #61259]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/daisy/+bug/1183759|bug 1183759]]</nowiki>.
* Rebucket failed retraces when the same SAS succeeds in a later retrace.
* Get a better navigation header on https://errors.ubuntu.com.
* Work with Emily to improve the graphs and page layout.
** "[09:42:04] <jodh> also, minor point, but... can you label the axes?"
* Integration test of package installation failures.
* Kees has some suggestions: http://paste.ubuntu.com/5734028/
* Separate page for kernel OOPSes.

=== Retracers ===

The aim is to get the retracers as close to a 100% success rate as possible.

* Martin has fixed a serious bug in the Launchpad retracers that we should port to the Daisy retracers [ <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~apport-hackers/apport/trunk/revision/2647|1]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-archive/apport/lp-retracer-config/revision/7|2]]</nowiki> ].
* Once the remaining <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad/+bugs?field.tag=ddebs|ddebs bugs]]</nowiki> are fixed, we will teach apport-retrace to fetch from the librarian.
* We need better nagios checks for the retracers. We should be able to notice that a single retracer has gone haywire.

=== Hadoop ===
* Hot standby cluster, <nowiki>[[https://rt.admin.canonical.com/Ticket/Display.html?id=60652|RT #60652]]</nowiki>.
* Initial setup of Hadoop on hot standby cluster.
* First jobs for "What makes this problem interesting?" Evaluate doing this in native Cassandra first, possibly with data remodelling.
** http://paste.ubuntu.com/5713702/

=== Staging ===

* https://errors.staging.ubuntu.com and https://daisy.staging.ubuntu.com.
* Integration tests running against it?

=== ARM retracers ===
Should be simple. Just need a RT to deploy on production. There by default in charms/stagingstack.
