{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Welcome ===

This is the basic wiki page for Estonian LoCo team. Our main goals include:

* Exchange of information about many forms and uses of Ubuntu and free software in general.
* Bringig together people, experience and initiatives to help the community grow.
* Support providing localized flavour of Ubuntu to Estonian people and context.

Our mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ee|ubuntu-ee@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>

IRC channel on Freenode: <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net?nick=huviline...&channels=%23ubuntu-ee|#ubuntu-ee]]</nowiki>

=== Tere tulemast ===

Oled sattunud Ubuntu Eesti kogukonda haldava meeskonna lehele. Meie eesmärgid on:

* Vahetada infot Ubuntu ja vaba tarkvara eri vormide ning kasutusviiside kohta.
* Tuua kokku inimesi, kogemust ja algatusi, mis aitaks vabavara kogukonnal kasvada.
* Toetada Eesti inimeste ja konteksti jaoks kohandatud Ubuntu väljaandmist.

Meie meililist: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-ee|ubuntu-ee@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>

IRC kanal Freenode'is: <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net?nick=huviline...&channels=%23ubuntu-ee|#ubuntu-ee]]</nowiki>

==== Liikmed ====

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~boamaod|boamaod]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Myoldryn]]</nowiki>
* TanelPuhu
* <nowiki>[[Petsmmg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Gerald70]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[saffron2]]</nowiki>
* MartMangus
* <nowiki>[[Disasterpiece]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
