{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Hi, I'm Lesley.  A games journalist and tech author from the UK.

=== Contact information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Lesley Harrison
|-
| '''Email'''
| etali@myth-games.com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| Etali
|-
| '''Jabber'''
| etali@jabber.org
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~etali/
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://lesleyharrison.wordpress.com
|}

=== About Me ===
I am a games journalist and tech author. I have been using GNU/Linux since the late 1990s. I have experimented with a wide range of OSes, including OS/2, Be OS, FreeBSD, and various Linux flavours.  I currently use DSL, CentOS, and Ubuntu, depending on the purpose of the machine.    

I am an author and tech reviewer for Packt Publishing, a computer book publisher that donates a percentage of their profits from books on FOSS to the developers of the project, and also runs an annual Open Source Software Award.  I enjoy working with Packt because of their positive attitude towards FOSS developers.

=== My Contributions ===

{*} Bug Triaging - I participate in Bug Days, and have joined the Five a Day group.

{*} Localization work - I help to localize Ubuntu packages into British English, and also do some translation.  I'm a Star Trek fan so it's fun to practice my Klingon.  I'm currently learning Japanese (but only have a basic knowledge), and will expand my translation work once my understanding gets stronger.

{*} Beta test Launchpad

{*} Support on UbuntuForums and in IRC

{*} Advocacy - as part of my freelance work I have introduced many small businesses to the concept of FOSS. I rarely evangelize (I find it turns people off), but if a FOSS tool fits someone's purpose, I will suggest it, and support the new user during the transition period.

=== Bug Fixing ===

I occasionally patch simple bugs in Ubuntu, and also work on Gnome bugs tagged as "Gnome Love" on Gnome's Bugzilla.  Some of the patches I have submitted in Ubuntu so far are:

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cheese/+bug/501368|Grammatical Error in Description of Cheese]]</nowiki>

=== Other Open Source Project Involvement ===

{*} List admin for the LinuxChix Courses mailing list.

{*} Joined the <nowiki>[[http://groups.fsf.org/wiki/Group:FSF/Community_Team/Planning|FSF Community Team]]</nowiki> - which monitors various news sources and responds to articles, clearing up misconceptions and explaining the Free Software Foundation's work and philosophy.

{*} Tech reviewer for a book about Ubuntu which will be published by O'Reilly in early 2010.

{*} To improve my programming skills I work on simple Gnome patches (tagged Gnome-Love).

=== Future Plans for Ubuntu ===

{*} I am currently learning packaging.  I am interested in Python / PyGame so starting with packages related to that.

=== Availability for Mentorship ===

I am based in the UK, and work from home, so I am usually available between 10AM - 8PM GMT.

=== Testimonials for Membership Application ===
