{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Status of official Ubuntu packages for Etherpad ===
There are no Ubuntu packages for Etherpad available from the repositories yet. If you want to help package Etherpad in Ubuntu see:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+bug/563484

This document describes how to install Etherpad from Etherpad.org's repositories or, if you are inclined to do so, building it from its source code and installing it.

== Installing Etherpad from Etherpad.org's repository ==

=== Install Java, MySQL and Scala required packages ===

Install pre-requisite packages for getting and building Etherpad.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk scala mysql-server mysql-client libmysql-java git-core
</pre>

Etherpad will not build or run with openjdk-6-jdk or openjdk-6-jre. It also is best to use Sun's jar since fastjar seems to have some issues.

If you get this error:
<pre>
Package sun-java6-jdk is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package sun-java6-jdk has no installation candidate
</pre>
Checkout /etc/apt/sources.list and add this line if missing:
<pre>
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy multiverse
</pre>
For Lucid you have to activate the partner repository
<pre>
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu lucid partner
</pre>
Then
<pre>
apt-get update
</pre>
and try again.

It is necessary to ensure that the server's host name is in the /etc/hosts for the IP 127.0.0.1 . If this is not there you will have a compile time error like this :

"Unable to establish connection to compilation daemon 
       Compilation failed."

Furthermore, it might be necessary to tell Ubuntu to switch from OpenJDK to Sun’s Java:
<pre>
update-java-alternatives -s java-6-sun
</pre>

=== Installing the Etherpad package ===

There is now an apt source that you can put in your /etc/apt/sources.list
http://wiki.github.com/ether/pad/installation-instructions-ii

<pre>
sudo echo "deb http://apt.etherpad.org all ." >> /etc/apt/sources.list

sudo echo "deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy multiverse" >> /etc/apt/sources.list
</pre>

Then do the following commands
<pre>
$sudo apt-get update
$sudo apt-get install etherpad
</pre>

You will get the following message.
<pre>
$ apt-get install etherpad
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  etherpad
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B/31.5MB of archives.
After this operation, 45.0MB of additional disk space will be used.
WARNING: The following packages cannot be authenticated!
  etherpad
Install these packages without verification [y/N]? 
</pre>

Type Y because you trust the Etherpad foundation. :)

Now for some mysql magic.
http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/4.1/en/adding-users.html

First, you would check if this is necesary to do checking if the user ''etherpad'' already exists.

<pre>
$mysql -p
Enter password: 
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 205
Server version: 5.1.41-3ubuntu12.3 (Ubuntu)

Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear the current input statement.

mysql> CREATE DATABASE etherpad;
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'etherpad'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'some_password_here' 
mysql> quit
Bye
$
</pre>
Now the etherpad database is done.
Give yourself a pat on the back.
Now depending on the speed of box server you might want to get a drink right now. Or read http://xkcd.com/ while the code is compiling.
<pre>
$cd /usr/share/etherpad
$bin/build.sh
</pre>
In your favorite editor or nano
<pre>
nano /etc/etherpad/etherpad.local.properties
</pre>
Edit the line
topdomains = <YOUR DOMAIN HERE>, Ubuntu,localhost,localhost.localdomain
To include your Fully Qualified Domain Name(FQDN) of your box.
then run
<pre>
$sudo bin/run.sh
</pre>
YAY You did it.
Be the only kid on your block that has installed etherpad.

== Installing Etherpad from source code ==
Please note this is not recommended for production systems and will not provide feature and security updates.

=== Build from source ===
If you want the latest an greatest from the etherpad foundation you have to use git.
Don't worry git is super cool and easy.
<pre>
$cd ~
$git clone git@github.com:ether/pad.git
</pre>
You should now have a directory with the etherpad source! 
=== Compiling Etherpad ===

From pad/:
<pre>
$ bin/build.sh
</pre>

=== Running Etherpad ===
<pre>
$ bin/run.sh
</pre>
