{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-karmic-eucalyptus-simplify-install
* '''Created''': 2009-06-15
* '''Contributors''': SorenHansen
* '''Packages affected''': eucalyptus

=== Summary ===

Simplify the Eucalyptus install process.

=== Release Note ===

Setting up Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud is now even easier than before. 

=== Rationale ===

The Eucalyptus install process in Jaunty was way too manual. We need to make the installation as painless as possible.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

There are three major components involved:

==== Cloud controller ====

No variables of concern. Should just install, no questions asked.

==== Cluster controller ====

Cluster controller installation should involve asking for the networking type (SYSTEM, MANAGED, others) as well as the variables specific to that type (bridge, subnet to user, etc.), as well as asking for the IP of the cloud controller. Ideally, the cluster controller should be able to register with the cloud controller in question.

==== Node controller ====

Should ask for the IP of the cluster controller, or optionally attempt to discover it using avahi.

=== Implementation ===

TBD

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
