{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Evan Broder, apply for Ubuntu Core Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Evan Broder
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~broder
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Evan Broder. I'm a computer systems nerd, especially when it comes to operating systems and virtualization. I like to build things - mostly in software, though occasionally in hardware - and glue software together in new and interesting ways.

I graduated from college last year and started at a San Francisco-area startup. We're using virtualization to revolutionize how large enterprise IT departments manage their employees' workstations. I'm the lead developer on one of our products, an OS based on the core Ubuntu stack that runs our management software. I focus mostly on integrating our software with the underlying components in the OS.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I don't remember when I started tried Ubuntu - I think it was around Breezy or so. But I've definitely used every version since Dapper, and about 6 months ago I started using Ubuntu on my primary laptop. While I was at MIT I was a heavy contributor to the <nowiki>[[http://sipb.mit.edu|student computing organization]]</nowiki> and their <nowiki>[[http://xvm.mit.edu/|VM hosting service]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://debathena.mit.edu/|Debian- and Ubuntu-based distribution]]</nowiki> used on the public computer lab machines.

While at college, I began contributing to Ubuntu through backports and then moved on to fixing bugs that affected the SIPB projects I was involved in (primarily things like Xen, OpenAFS, and krb5 mixed with a little bit of everything).

Since graduating, I've been fortunate enough to attend the last three UDS's (UDS-N, -O, and -P). I found UDS to be incredibly motivating for me - even now, I feel like I'm still riding the high from October. I really appreciated that it's possible for someone to show up and usefully contribute to the development process.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Some numbers - since joining MOTU:
* I've had 27 uploads sponsored - 23 in core[*], 1 in desktop-core and ubuntu-server, 1 in ubuntu-server, 2 in ubuntu-desktop
* I've done 61 direct non-backports uploads
* I've sponsored 45 uploads in universe
* I've reviewed and approved 43 backport requests

[*] Or would have been in core, had they not pre-dated packagesets.

==== SRUs ====

* plymouth: <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/0.8.2-2ubuntu2.1|lucid]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/0.8.2-2ubuntu5.1|maverick]]</nowiki> SRUs - suppress a harmless warning message that was often conflated with other more serious issues
* update-inetd: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-inetd/4.35ubuntu0.1|lucid]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-inetd/4.36ubuntu0.1|maverick]]</nowiki> SRUs - correct an install-time hang due to interactions between debconf and inetd (backported fix)
* initramfs-tools: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/0.98.1ubuntu6.1|maverick]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/0.98.8ubuntu3.1|natty]]</nowiki> SRUs - allow booting off of USB 3.0 drives (backported fix)

==== Backports ====

* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu-dev-tools/backportpackage/+merge/43491|backportpackage]]</nowiki> - A script for automatically generating test backports and test building them
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu-archive-tools/backport-helper/+merge/40933|backport-helper]]</nowiki> (plus some follow-up patches - [[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu-archive-tools/backport-helper-requestor/+merge/43447|[1] ]], [[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu-archive-tools/fix-backport-helper-regexp/+merge/81813|[2] ]], [[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu-archive-tools/backport-without-changes-file/+merge/82323|[3] ]]) - A new tool for ubuntu-archive-tools that looks for and runs approved backport requests
* New docs for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports|end-users]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBackports|developers]]</nowiki> - I re-wrote the documentation to clarify the current backports procedures
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2011-November/001122.html|Pre-release backports]]</nowiki> - I wrote the proposal and advocated it to the TB, who approved it at their November 28th meeting

==== Lintian ====

I set-up http://lintian.ubuntuwire.org/ and have been working with Lintian upstream to fix some issues affecting Ubuntu ([[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=297afd88471d8fee082cc33f6a4d7dfcc6bbe684|[1] ]], [[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=4f226684b59a80bd576ab96dc2d79a598351d8e0|[2] ]], [[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=26e66e8a1ea8160c31bae7be30bb2f4918f8f943|[3] ]], [[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=b08ea6174d0b057cae166fc8d020873aede6886a|[4] ]], [[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=2f004c35694ac6447b3569a23ec1e621504338f2|[5] ]], [[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=ddad0c63e5a2921d1590a58cf4009215020bd8d2|[6] ]], [[http://anonscm.debian.org/gitweb/?p=lintian/lintian.git;a=commitdiff;h=634a65fac63166bb2faf285760a67c65a19f16d8|[7] ]])

==== NetworkManager ====

I've developed a couple patchsets for NetworkManager while doing integration work with it:

* <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=4f38f02add9aa0e311f1ddb605b1aa0224ad057e|4f38f02a]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=ca968105daa7bb9e2fd1d64c2d2270f110f984ba|ca968105]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=0b8097a26a59ef0b2c0ab78f9ec3656e5681404b|0b8097a2]]</nowiki> - fixing a long-standing limitation of 802.1x support
* <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=1e2984a5c218ea53092a6174b5bb1dcade39dd56|1e2984a5]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=ef9551bcf3627b9f1f57f78fdb394c194f6e9a43|ef9551bc]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=2c484fbc77ae4422fc9579e8da4a568780f65b25|2c484fbc]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=dc92d1258dae7b8515c35b632115cf747afaa15d|dc92d125]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=b08e2b8932ed6aa735b4ef4ed04fc173f275b16e|b08e2b89]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/commit/?id=9fc134ee83ee4444517448efaee774dc9feebd65|9fc134ee]]</nowiki> - adding support for non-ASCII passwords in MS-CHAPv2-based 802.1x

==== Transitions ====

I've made some small contributions to various transition efforts:

* "perlsectomy" ([[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gst-plugins-base0.10/0.10.30.4-1ubuntu1|[1] ]], [[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gutenprint/5.2.6-0ubuntu9|[2] ]]) - an aborted attempt to drop the perl package (note: not perl-base) from our base install
* dh_python2 ([[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu/oneiric/python-boto/alt.pysupport.die.die.die|[1] ]], [[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu/oneiric/virtkey/no-pycentral-i-expect-you-to-die|[2] ]]) transition from dh_pysupport and dh_pycentral
* multiarch - I've developed, tested, and submitted multiarch patches for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsigc++-2.0/+bug/900421|libsigc++-2.0]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glibmm2.4/+bug/900565|glibmm2.4]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/atkmm1.6/+bug/902703|atkmm1.6]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cairomm/+bug/902899|cairomm]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pangomm/+bug/902974|pangomm]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkmm2.4/+bug/903044|gtkmm2.4]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssl098/0.9.8o-7ubuntu2|openssl098]]</nowiki>, and zephyr

==== Debian ====

I currently maintain a package in Debian (<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/r/reptyr.html|reptyr]]</nowiki>)

==== bzr Merge Proposals ====

Here are a handful of merge proposals that went directly into Ubuntu but where, for whatever reason, mine wasn't the name closing out the changelog so they're not listed on my list of uploaded packages:

* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/network-manager/nm-fix-669925/+merge/39854|network-manager/nm-fix-669925]]</nowiki>: Guard use of update-notifier so network-manager doesn't have to depend on it
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/checkbox/multimon-aware-resolution-test-632987/+merge/76245|checkbox/multimon-aware-resolution-test-632987]]</nowiki>: Improve multihead handling for one of checkbox's tests
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu/oneiric/virtkey/no-pycentral-i-expect-you-to-die/+merge/65744|ubuntu/oneiric/virtkey/no-pycentral-i-expect-you-to-die]]</nowiki>: dh_python2 conversion for python-virtkey
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu-dev-tools/fix-785854/+merge/65139|ubuntu-dev-tools/fix-785854]]</nowiki>: Correct for deficiencies in the subprocess module within ubuntu-dev-tools
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu/natty/casper/fix-671786/+merge/40252|ubuntu/natty/casper/fix-671786]]</nowiki>: Add support for a new command-line option to casper
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/ubuntu/precise/pkgbinarymangler/relative-symlinks-899520/+merge/85308|precise/pkgbinarymangler/relative-symlinks-899520]]</nowiki>: Creates Policy-compliant symlinks when stripping localized gnome-help and mallard docs; should clean up many of our <nowiki>[[http://lintian.ubuntuwire.org/tags/symlink-should-be-relative.html|symlink-should-be-relative]]</nowiki> Lintian tags as packages are rebuilt.
* <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~broder/upstart/drop-privileges/+merge/81417|upstart/drop-privileges]]</nowiki>: (not yet uploaded) Added new "setuid" and "setgid" stanzas to Upstart

=== Areas of work ===
I've mostly given up on trying to qualify specific areas I work on - it tends to be a little bit of anything and everything.

I have a particular interest in backports and SRUs, because I like that they're one of our most direct ways we can improve Ubuntu for our users. I also tend to spend time on packages which are relevant for work - generally early boot and low-level stuff like NetworkManager, initramfs-tools, or libgnome-desktop.

=== Things I could do better ===

I like to help with transition projects such as .la file cleanup, dh_python2, or multiarch, but I find that I tend to execute poorly at that sort of largely-but-not-totally repetitive packaging tasks. I've caught myself after the fact cutting corners. I think I need to be more deliberate working on those sorts of projects, or leave them to others.

I've also been a little concerned lately that I'm spreading myself thin. I don't think I generally fail to meet my commitments, but I worry some about falling down on implied responsibility because I spend a lot of time darting around between different things.

== Plans for the future ==

I'm expecting to spend time this cycle working on implementing the new pre-release backports plan, which will require making changes to things like Launchpad, ubuntu-archive-tools, ubuntu-dev-tools, and probably others.

I also want to continue improving lintian.ubuntuwire.org to make it a more useful resource for Ubuntu developers. In particular, I think there's currently a lot of noise because we show tags which are in some sense Debian's "fault" and not ours, and I think it's important that lintian.uw.o have a view of tags only emitted in Ubuntu and not in Debian so that we can see where our changes and Ubuntu-specific packages are falling short against Policy.

I'm also hoping to spend time helping with sponsorship and patch piloting.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
My focus is primarily on the developer side of things, so that's where I notice problems. My biggest concern is around managing to grow the developer community. Most of the new developers coming into our community (especially the MOTU community) are focused on syncs, merges, FTBFS fixes, and other sorts of archive gardening tasks. While this sort of packaging-focused development is clearly critical for the vitality of the archive, I think it's equally important to encourage developers who are less interested in the packaging arcana, because I think that's a much larger group of potential talent.

I think the distro community should be better equipped than it is now to help people who want to improve the software itself. This is especially important for people who are more interested in "hit-and-run" development and less interested in a single piece of (or small collection of) software.

I think there are cases where we should provide more support than just passing developers off to upstream, though I'm not sure what. Better documentation and better awareness of the documentation that we have is likely a big part of it. I think that doing a better job of timely patch review could help. Doubling down and expanding on the bitesize initiative might be good, too.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

* I've sponsored all Evan's Debian uploads (4), and he did a great job with them. I've also worked with him a fair amount in MOTU. Evan is great to work with, as he's very responsive and gets things done. I'd like to see him be a core-dev. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:stefanor]]</nowiki> 
* I have not sponsored any non-backports uploads for Evan since he became a MOTU, but those have all been well done and I've regularly seen him in action on IRC, mailing lists, and at UDS.  Socially and technically I think we would be an asset to the project as a core-dev. ScottKitterman

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Barry Warsaw ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored one of Evan's uploads during the dh_python2 transition, and he did a great job on it.  While I haven't sponsored any other packages, I've been watching Evan's perhaps less obvious contributions to Ubuntu on the mailing lists and irc, and there's no question he's knowledgeable and helpful, with exactly the right spirit of Ubuntu, backed by a very good technical understanding.  He's conscientious and collaborative and I have no doubt that he'll ask questions when he's unsure of things, and will take the utmost care to ensure Ubuntu is solid and stable.  I think he would be a great addition and so I endorse his core-dev application. 
----

=== Martin Pitt ===
==== General feedback ====
Evan has been around in the community and IRC channels for years now. He has a profound technical knowledge, always helpful and friendly on IRC, and I trust him to ask when he encounters an unknown situation. I sponsored some 6 main packages for him, they were all in good shape and could be uploaded without further change. I support his core-dev application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Sponsored:
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/2:1.6.0-0ubuntu14.1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/1.3.7-1ubuntu3.9
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups/1.3.9-17ubuntu3.7
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gst-plugins-base0.10/0.10.30.4-1ubuntu1
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gutenprint/5.2.6-0ubuntu9
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libgweather/3.2.0-0ubuntu1.1

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
Evan consistently does great work. I support his Core Dev application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glibmm2.4/+bug/900565
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/atkmm1.6/+bug/902703
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pangomm/+bug/902974
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkmm2.4/+bug/903044

=== Stéphane Graber (stgraber) ===
I've had the chance to work with Evan a few times both online and at the few last UDSes, I think he'll be a great core dev and fully support his application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
The only package I reviewed from Evan was initramfs-tools as an SRU for 3 different releases and was ready for upload without any change.
Having talked with each other quite a bit at the few last UDSes made it clear that he knows quite a bit about the inner working of a Linux distribution and Ubuntu specifically, he'd be a great addition to the team.

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
