{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

My name is Miguel A. Alvarado V., I've been using linux since 1998 approximatively, Ubuntu since 2004. I've always enjoyed finding the internal workings of software and systems in general to better understand them which has pushed me to help others with issues.

I like software development, learned C/C++, a little Python and web development with html/js/css with PHP back end. I'm a Qt advocate, always showing fellow developers the power of the Qt Framework. I have a general knowledge of how things work in linux and have kept updated through the changes all from kernel/init through dev/hal/dbus up to all these changes on startup, X, etc.

It's been a fun ride watching the FOSS world evolve. I feel I've learned enough to pitch in more than just technical help and problem solving.

----

== My Ubuntu Collaboration ==

My work in Ubuntu has mostly (up to know) been of an Ubuntu advocate, speaker, feature tester and local community helper.

Starting around 2005 when I spoke of Ubuntu at the local Linux Expo, a national event lead by the local LUG 'VELUG Maracaibo' and as Ubuntu' community grew I was helping more and more people with issues. I continue to blog and help push Ubuntu out to the masses and defend it from the eager stabs of those who are pure free-software lovers.

I'm always trying to lure students into the world of FOSS, development and Ubuntu, most students in college who study Computer Engineer or Informatics Engineering always fear programming, I believe it's mostly due to bad motivation and lack of good teachers with good education and experience. I always found it enjoyable to find peers in this developer world.

== Short Term Goals ==

* Fix bugs in Ubuntu
* --(Join the BugSquad)--
* Keep helping the community (forums, irc, talks)
* Finish learning the Ubuntu Distributed Development
* --(Learn Bazaar)--
* Learn more about Bazaar

== Long Term Goals ==
 
* Find a good project to develop and dedicate my spare time to.
* Become a MOTU.
* Get to know more awesome people involved in Ubuntu.

=== Additional Information ===

* GMT-4.5 (Available at nights 7:00PM - 1:00AM'ish)
* IRC: Exodus@Freenode
