{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== eyequeue ===

==== Contact information: ====

IRC:  __eyequeue on freenode__

Email: 
<pre>
Please (OpenPGP) encrypt all mail whenever possible. Request the following
2006 Public Keys for Eye Queue <eyequeue@gmail.com>

  Type    Bits/KeyID    Fingerprint                   DSA KeyID: vvvv vvvv
ElGamal: 2048g/D7293928 800F 1C24 CE3B 978A D3B6  664E A01A 4164 B1D9 1163

</pre>

Typically, there is continuity between one year's key and the next, via signature, however I was hospitalized during the months I would normally establish such continuity.  If you like, here is my 2005 key data:
<pre>
  Type    Bits/KeyID    Fingerprint                   DSA KeyID: vvvv vvvv
ElGamal: 2048g/265417E3 E365 7623 8CE0 22FC CD0F  1CFC 2514 DAE2 E5D8 ECAC
</pre>

GTalk:  eyequeue@gmail.com

==== Ubuntu-related items: ====

Launchpad:  
https://launchpad.net/people/eyequeue-gmail/

Malone:  https://launchpad.net/people/eyequeue-gmail/+reportedbugs

UbuntuForums posts:  http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=4519022

or try Google:  http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=ubuntu+eyequeue

----
----

==== General: ====

Typically, you will find me doing Ubuntu advocacy or support, as well as the occasional bug testing/reporting via <nowiki>[[Malone]]</nowiki>; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/]]</nowiki> (https://launchpad.net/people/eyequeue-gmail/+reportedbugs).

Much of my support these days is limited to online endeavours, due to health limitations on mobility, etc.

I do still try to support those "evangelical installations" that I did prior to deteriorating health issues, but will eventually need to acquire a substitute to do (remote?) system administration for certain users, etc., as my continued abilities are a finite matter.  Contact me via email if you are a candidate for such.

----
----

==== This probably belongs here: ====

Those who have known me for years will tell you I've never been one for living at a certain $time.  Though the reasons have changed since then, I'm still no more likely to be alert at "4AM" or "4PM" when they call.

Get in touch and I'll do my best to be timely, but bear in mind that can vary.  I suppose advance notice of meetings is helpful, at least usually.

These days I find myself in Dapper more than Edgy, but I notice my reasons differ.  Even after the release I plan on changing back and forth at times, but reasons will differ then from now, I'm sure.

----
CategoryHomepage
