{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

This page shows how to mount a Netware filesystem and create symbolic links to it on the User Desktop.

== What is Needed ==

ncpfs - a set of utilities to use resources from !NetWare servers.

ipx (utilities to configure the kernel ipx interface) might also be needed.

== Mount Netware Filesystem ==

Firstly we need to make the folder to mount the filesystem to.

   <pre>
sudo mkdir /mnt/company_fs
sudo chown -R <UbuntuUserName>:<UbuntuGroupName> /mnt/company_fs</pre>

Then we mount the filesystem (run as the Ubuntu user you want to have access, not root):
   
   <pre>
ncpmount -A <NetwareServerDNSName> -S <NetwareServerName> -U <NetwareUserName> -P <NetwarePassword> /mnt/company_fs</pre>

To make sure that the filesystem is automatically mounted at startup, we need to add the following line to /etc/rc.local

   <pre>
ncpmount -A <NetwareServerDNSName> -S <NetwareServerName> -U <NetwareUserName> -P <NetwarePassword> -u <UbuntuUserID> -g <UbuntuGroupID> -c <UbuntuUserName> /mnt/company_fs</pre>

== Creating Symbolic Links ==
Create a symbolic (never a hard) link to the mounted netware filesystem and place it in a folder on the user desktop.

   <pre>
ln -s /mnt/company_fs /home/<UbuntuUserName>/Desktop/CompanyNetwork/company_fs</pre>

Now, most Companies have a lot of shared drives in Windows, ex P: S: X: etc., that are normally used for say Apps, Users etc.

If required these shares must be made with symbolic links as only one mount to a filesystem can be make at a time.
   <pre>
ln -s /mnt/company_fs/FolderToShare /home/<UbuntuUserName>/Desktop/CompanyNetwork/ShareDriveName</pre>

== Netware Password Change ==

Most Windows Netware Clients needs to change their passwords every x days.

So to make it easy to update your passwords in Ubuntu use this script after changing your Windows Netware Password.

   <pre>

ncpumount -a

gedit /etc/cups/printers.conf
echo
echo 'Restarting the CUPS service...'
echo
/etc/init.d/cupsys restart

gedit /etc/rc.d/rc.local
echo
echo 'Running rc.local script to configure IPX Netware mounts...'
echo
/etc/rc.d/rc.local
   </pre>

Note: The content on this page should be merged with MountingNovellNetworkDrives.

----
NetwarePrintingFromUbuntu CategoryNetworking
