{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Acrobat Reader is no longer available in supported versions of Ubuntu.'''

== Privacy Alert ==

Since at least Acrobat Reader version 7, it has been identified that Reader contains the ability for certain PDF files to inform a central database that they have been read.  This by no means affects all PDF files, and will not be a problem at all for users who do not mind this ability.  This "phoning home" can be prevented by disabling JavaScript in Edit -> Preferences -> JavaScript. For more on this, please see <nowiki>[[http://lwn.net/Articles/129729]]</nowiki>.

== Installing in Lucid through Raring from a Ubuntu supported repository ==

One may utilize the <nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu|Canonical Partner repository]]</nowiki> and install <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acroread|Adobe Reader 9]]</nowiki> via the acroread package. It includes the standalone reader as well as the browser plugin.

For asian users, you might need asian font packs. Go to <nowiki>[[http://www.adobe.com/support/downloads/product.jsp?product=10&platform=Unix|Adobe's]]</nowiki> website and download the add-ons you need, then extract them into /opt. You will be able to read the asian language documents correctly.

== Enabling Read Out Loud ==

Adobe Reader has the ability to read text from PDF files out loud to the user. To enable Read Out Loud in Ubuntu please install the libgnome-speech7 package then run at the Terminal: <pre>
sudo /var/lib/dpkg/info/acroread.postinst configure </pre>

Open the desired PDF file and click View -> Read Out Loud -> Activate Read Out loud -> View -> Read Out Loud and then choose either Read This Page Only or Read to End of Document. Read Out Loud preferences are found by clicking Edit -> Preferences -> Reading.

== Known issues ==

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acroread/+bug/1262924|Adobe Acrobat Reader 9 not available in Trusty/Saucy repositories]]</nowiki>

== External Links ==

* Adobe's bug reporting tracker - <nowiki>[[https://bugbase.adobe.com]]</nowiki>
* Adobe's Feature Request/Bug Report Form - <nowiki>[[https://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform]]</nowiki>
* Notifying Adobe of Security Issues <nowiki>[[https://www.adobe.com/devnet/security/security_zone/alertus.html]]</nowiki>
