{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 
''As of 2011/05 Ubuntu 8.04 Desktop is no longer supported, this page is being updated for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop''

== Introduction ==
Brief description of items in the '''System''' -> '''Administration''' menu.

== List of Administration applications ==
* '''Computer Janitor''' - This application allows you find and remove software packages you may no longer need. It also suggests configuration changes which might benefit you.
* '''Disk Utility''' - This allows you to manage attached Hard Disk Drives and CD/DVD Drives.
* '''Keyring Manager''' - Stores keys for wifi, etc.
* '''Language Support''' - Install/remove language support for many different languages.
* '''Login Window''' - Configure your login. Under the 'Security' tab there is an option for enabling automatic login for a given user. Be warned against automatic login, and other security risks!. Download additional login windows from <nowiki>[[http://art.gnome.org/themes/gdm_greeter/|art.gnome.org]]</nowiki>.  
* '''Networking''' - Configure your network (this may become largely redundant if you connect via another tool).
* '''Network Tools''' - Ping, traceroute, etc.
* '''Printing''' - Add, configure, remove printers.
* '''Services''' - Start and stop services/daemons from running in the background.
* '''Shared Folders''' - Share folders on your network and the Internet.
* '''Software Sources''' - Configure software repositories.
* '''Synaptic Package Manager''' - Program and application installer. (See also: InstallingSoftware).
* '''System Log''' - Log viewer for various logfiles detailing activity on your machine.
* '''System Monitor''' - Keep an eye on system processes running, resources being used, and your filesystem.  See also: System Monitor applet.
* '''Time and Date''' - Set date/time, select time zone, configure syncronisation with Internet clock servers.
* '''Update Manager''' - Checks for software updates.  Equivalent to 'sudo apt-get update', then 'sudo apt-get upgrade' in Terminal.
* '''Users and Groups''' - Add/remove and configure users and privileges.  Also manage groups. (See also: <nowiki>[[http://rofi.pinchito.com/eiciel/|Eiciel)]]</nowiki>.

----
CategorySystem CategoryAdministration
