{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== 32-bit Firefox ===
Whoever uses 32-bit Firefox, please consider directing users to Ubuntuzilla project <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuzilla.sourceforge.net]]</nowiki> and it's 64-bit plugin section <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/ubuntuzilla/index.php?title=Ubuntuzilla_FAQ#.5BThunderbird.2C_Firefox.5D_For_64-bit_Ubuntu_users]]</nowiki>.  IMO Ubuntuzilla use is notably easier than suggestions of this page.

michael37: Agreed, I will point to mozilla builds.

=== Discussion ===
Slight error in code noted.  I expect following line:
sudo cp /usr/local/firefox32/res/forms.css /usr/lib/mozilla-firefox/res/forms.css.bak

should read:
sudo cp /usr/local/firefox32/res/forms.css /usr/local/firefox32/res/forms.css.bak

 - RobertStoffers - I'd love to have a solution whereby one could install 32bit firefox from the regular 32bit Ubuntu repo and not have to download the tar file. Might have a crack at working this one out when I get some time, but feel free to update the instructions yourself if you know about this already.

=== Legacy Instructions ===
/!\ These are legacy instructions.  If all goes well, you shouldn't require any of the following information.  It is kept for archiving sake.

''If you are having problems with segmentation faults when trying to use the browser's or email client's "Open" or "Execute" methods for opening data files or attachments in helper applications (such as 'evince' for PDFs), then try this alternative method:

Change the files 'firefox32' and 'thunderbird32' to read''
''#!/bin/sh''
''export GTK_PATH=/usr/lib32/gtk-2.0''
''export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib32/libpangohack.so.0''
''linux32 /usr/local/<firefox/thunderbird>32/<firefox/thunderbird> $@''

''Note that this method is untested AFAIK - please post any potential issues with it. Many thanks to 'lychee' from the forums.

DrBob: just 2 comments
* sound is an issue under KDE (Kubuntu) as well. The arts daemon (if running) must be suspended in order for Flash to be able to emit sound.
* with the above procedure, the fonts used by firefox32 don't match those in the ubuntu-packaged version. I don't know how to fix this (those that appear in firefox32 are oversized for me, YMMV). NB. I'm talking about the fonts used in the GUI, not those used in rendering webpages (but the latter don't quite match either).''
