{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''''First check <nowiki>[[http://cinelerra.org/getting_cinelerra.php#ubuntu|here]]</nowiki> to see whether your version is catered for!'''''

== Cinelerra ==
Cinelerra is perhaps the most powerful non-linear editing suite available for the Linux family of operating systems.  The history behind Cinelerra is too long to summarize here.  If you are interested in finding out more about Cinelerra, travel to http://cvs.cinelerra.org/

== Repositories ==
Currently an amd64 version of Cinelerra is unavailable through the repositories.  This guide will help you compile a version of Cinelerra from scratch and install it on your computer.

== Groundwork ==
First we are going to require some building tools.  These can easily be added from your Ubuntu repositories.  Make sure that you have all repositories enabled, and issue the following command on the command line.  If you are unfamiliar with the command line or repositories, you should browse the forums or the help site for more information before proceeding.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential automake1.7 libtool xorg-dev libasound2-dev libogg-dev libvorbis-dev libtheora-dev libopenexr-dev libdv4-dev libpng3-dev libjpeg62-dev uuid-dev libmjpegtools-dev liba52-dev liblame-dev libsndfile1-dev libfaac-dev libfaad2-dev fftw3-dev libraw1394-dev libavc1394-dev libtiff4-dev subversion git-core checkinstall yasm
</pre>

== Custom x264 Library ==
As of this writing, the x264 library that is required by Cinelerra has incompatible compile settings from the repository.  

''See this <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4907079&postcount=1|forum post]]</nowiki> for more details on how to compile the latest version of x264. It details how to compile and install the latest version of yasm (0.7.1 at time of writing) which is required to build x264.''

To this end, we must download and compile a custom version.  Once again, issue the following commands at a command line:

<pre>
git clone git://git.videolan.org/x264.git x264 
</pre>

This will 'checkout' a full source tree of x264 from the official site.  Next we will perform a custom compile to allow it to interact with Cinelerra:

<pre>
./configure --enable-pic --prefix=/usr --enable-shared
make
</pre>

Once this completes, you can install the library by issuing a <code>sudo make install</code>.
== Compiling Cinelerra ==
The final step is to compile Cinelerra.  This process requires us to:
# Download the source tree from the CVS repository.
# Configure the compilation for our platform.
# Build the source into binary executable format.
# Install the binaries to the proper directories.

=== Download the Source ===
<pre>
svn checkout svn://svn.skolelinux.org/cinelerra/trunk/hvirtual
</pre>

=== Configure the Compile ===
Enter into your newly created source tree directory and issue the following command:
<pre>
./autogen.sh
./configure --prefix=/usr/local/ --enable-mmx --enable-3dnow --enable-opengl --disable-mmx
</pre>

=== Build ===
<pre>
make
</pre>

=== Install ===
<pre>
sudo make install
</pre>
