{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



The aim of this page is to consolidate the various AMD64-related pages in one place in the hope that it is useful for fellow AMD64 users. For the differences between 32 bit and 64 bit, please see <nowiki>[[32bit_and_64bit]]</nowiki>.

=== Firefox and Plug-ins ===

Installing 32 bit Firefox and 32 bit binary plugins into your Ubuntu AMD64 bit installation can now be accomplished without the complexity of establishing a 32 bit chroot environment. This guide includes details on installing the popular multimedia plug-ins including Flash, Realplayer, Java 1.6, MPlayer and the Adobe Acrobat Reader plug-in. 

See <nowiki>[[AMD64-FirefoxAndPlugins]]</nowiki>.

=== Multimedia and Codecs ===

==== W64codecs - W32codecs Replacement Package ====

NOTE: w64codecs only contains a handful of realplayer codecs and does not fully replace w32codecs. If you need to play a format only supported by w32codecs, you will need to install w32codecs to /usr/lib32 and use a 32-bit version of mplayer (or an alternate method for running 32-bit apps, such as a chroot or virtualbox).

==== Cinelerra ====
To compile Cinelerra for video editing see <nowiki>[[AMD64-Cinelerra]]</nowiki>

=== Virtualization ===

For a guide on how to install VMWare Server on AMD64 please see <nowiki>[[VMware-Server-AMD64]]</nowiki>.

----
