{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

AMDGPU is AMD's open source graphics driver for the latest AMD Radeon graphics cards.  It is a compliment to the open source Radeon driver, which works with graphics cards not supported by AMDGPU.  AMDGPU is under intense development in coordination with the larger open source community.  AMDGPU supports a growing number of cards, but will not be available for pre-GCN (Graphics Core Next) architecture cards.  This means that as development progresses, some select cards as far back as HD 7000 cards will be supported.  No HD 6000 or prior cards will be supported.

Support for AMDGPU begins with Ubuntu 16.04 - which, incidentally, does not support fglrx - but it is also available for Ubuntu 14.04.5 with the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack|HWE stack]]</nowiki> Xenial (check if the <nowiki>[[apt:--xserver-xorg-video-amdgpu | xserver-xorg-video-amdgpu]]</nowiki> package is installed).

AMDGPU-PRO is the open source AMDGPU driver with a proprietary overlay.  What this means is that AMD's "proprietary" driver will be based on its open source driver!

This guide shows you how to use the open source '''AMDGPU''' driver for some AMD graphics cards and <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMD_Accelerated_Processing_Unit|APUs]]</nowiki>.

== Supported hardware ==

All these AMD graphics cards and APUs have good 3D acceleration support. This is not an exhaustive list.

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:100%;" rowstyle="background-color: #cccccc;" :20%>'''Chipset'''
| <:60%>'''Scheda video o APU'''
| <:5%>'''16.04'''
| <:5%>'''18.04'''
| <:5%>'''20.04'''
| <:5%>'''21.10'''
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''CARRIZO'''
| <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_AMD_accelerated_processing_unit_microprocessors|CARRIZO]]</nowiki> APU
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''FIJI'''
| Radeon R9 Nano/Fury/FuryX
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''STONEY'''
| <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_AMD_accelerated_processing_unit_microprocessors|STONEY]]</nowiki> APU
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''TONGA'''
| Radeon R9 285/380/380X/M295X/M390X/M395X/M485X
| <:> (./) '''*1'''
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''TOPAZ/MESO'''
| Radeon R5 M315 <<BR>>Radeon R7 M260/M265/M340/M360/M445/M460
| <:> (./) '''*1'''
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''POLARIS 10'''
| Radeon RX 470/480
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''POLARIS 11'''
| Radeon RX 460
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''POLARIS 12'''
| Radeon RX 550/560/570/580
| <:> (./) '''*2'''
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''VEGA 10'''
| Radeon RX Vega 56/64
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''VEGA 20'''
| Radeon VII
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''NAVI 10'''
| Radeon RX 5600/5600XT/5700/5700XT
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''NAVI 14'''
| Radeon RX 5300/5300XT/5500/5500XT
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''NAVI 21'''
| Radeon RX 6800/6800XT/6900XT
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''NAVI 22'''
| Radeon RX 6700XT
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
|-
| <#f7f7f7> '''NAVI 23'''
| Radeon RX 6600/6600XT
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:> (./)
|}

<<BR>>
'''*1''' → Ubuntu '''14.04''' and '''16.04''' with '''kernel Linux 4.4.0''': if you find problems with the Radeon '''R7 M260/M265''' (Topaz) or '''R9 M395X''' (Tonga) graphics cards, you can try to:
* install the latest <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack|HWE stack]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu 16.04 (or install directly the latest Ubuntu 16.04.X LTS iso);
* install a newer release of Ubuntu;
* install Ubuntu 14.04 (with kernel Linux 3.13.0) + proprietary '''fglrx''' driver.

'''*2''' → it has been reported that the Radeon '''RX 550''' graphics card does not work with the '''AMDGPU''' driver pre-installed in Ubuntu. To solve the problem you can install the <nowiki>[[http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMDGPU-PRO-Driver-for-Linux-Release-Notes.aspx|AMDGPU-Pro]]</nowiki> driver (available for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS only).

== HDMI audio ==

The open source '''AMDGPU''' driver does not support (for now) the HDMI audio. To solve this problem, you can install che "hybrid" AMDGPU-Pro driver from AMD, available in <nowiki>[[http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMDGPU-PRO-Driver-for-Linux-Release-Notes.aspx|this page]]</nowiki>.

== See Also ==

<nowiki>[[RadeonDriver]]</nowiki> - The Wiki page for the open source Radeon driver.

<nowiki>[[BinaryDriverHowto-AMD]]</nowiki> - The Wiki page for the proprietary AMD/ATI driver "fglrx" which also offers 3D acceleration, and works on newer cards than the "radeon" driver.  Since it's closed-source, only AMD can work on it and give efficient support, and the open-source community can generally not help you with problems.

----
CategoryHardware
