{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[Games]]</nowiki>

=== NO LONGER SUPPORTED ===
The Linux Version is no longer supported, there is no intentions for them to pickup with the Latest Version of AA. The programmer responsible for the Linux version quit.  Shortly after that, IIRC, the server hosting the Linux version was shut down. 
=== Introduction ===
America's Army is a First Person Shooter (commonly called FPS) created by the United States Armed Forces. It is free to download and install.

=== Download ===
Get the latest verion for Linux from  <nowiki>[[http://americasarmy.filefront.com/files/Americas_Army/Official_Releases/Full_Install;983|FileFront]]</nowiki>. Download ~-armyops<version>linux.run-~.

==== Installation ====
Run the file from where you have downloaded
<pre>
sudo sh armyops<version>linux.run
</pre>

=== Patch ===
If Americas Army is already installed, an upgrade match may be available from <nowiki>[[http://americasarmy.filefront.com/files/Americas_Army/Official_Releases/Patches;949|FileFront]]</nowiki>. Download ~-armyops-lnx-patch-<version>.run-~.

==== Installation ====
Run the file from where you have downloaded
<pre>
sudo sh armyops-lnx-patch-<version>.run
</pre>

=== Execute ===
There are multiple ways to execute the program. You can click the application icon that will be in ''Applications → Games → armyops'', or you can run it via the command line. Type the following into a Terminal:
<pre>
armyops
</pre>

----
CategoryGames
