{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[http://ampache.org/|Ampache]]</nowiki> is a Web-based Audio file manager. It is implemented with MySQL, and PHP. It allows you to view, edit, and play your audio files via the web. It has support for playlists, artist and album views, album art, random play, playback via Http/On the Fly Transcoding and Downsampling, Vote based playback, Mpd and Icecast, Integrated Flash Player, as well as per user themes and song play tracking. You can also Link multiple Ampache servers together using XML-RPC. Ampache supports GETTEXT translations and has a full translation of many languages.

== Install ==

Install the <nowiki>[[apt:ampache|ampache]]</nowiki> package from the Universe repository.
You should also install <nowiki>[[apt:mysql-server|mysql-server]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[apt:phpmyadmin|phpmyadmin]]</nowiki>.

Set up a mysql user account with root privileges 

Point your browser to http://localhost/ampache or http://your.ip.address/ampache and follow the installation instructions.

== How to Enable XSPF Player ==

Ampache comes with a way to play media through the browser via an embedded Flash based player. The file needed for this feature has been removed from the Ubuntu package (probably for licensing reasons).

Tested Ubuntu 10.10 with Ampache 3.5.4
To use the Flash player with Ubuntu packaged Ampache:
Visit Ampache website http://ampache.org/ and download Ampache 3.5.4.

Uncompress.
From uncompressed directory, move: ampache-3.5.4/modules/flash/xspf_jukebox.swf

to your system: /usr/share/ampache/www/modules/flash

Player should now work.

UPDATE:

With 11.04 Natty (ampache-3.5.4-9ubuntu3) a simple bash script has been added to do all this for you.  Simply run

  bash /usr/share/ampache/www/bin/grab_xspf.sh

Daniel Mueller bordercolliecult@gmail.com

== See Also ==

* <nowiki>[[http://ampache.org/|Ampache Home Page]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryAudio CategorySoftware
