{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{i} This article applies to all Ubuntu versions

== Why do I need anti-virus software? ==

* You are required to have a virus scanner installed by the terms of use of the company you work for or are doing business with.
* To scan files locally, over your network, or going outside your network. For example, via <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ScanningEmail|email]]</nowiki>.
* Windows viruses may potentially run via <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wine|Wine]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Linuxvirus | Discovered GNU/Linux malware]]</nowiki> are mitigated.

== Open Source Antivirus ==

* <nowiki>[[ClamAV|ClamAV Antivirus]]</nowiki>

== Proprietary Antivirus Offering Ubuntu Support ==

* <nowiki>[[https://www.avast.com/linux-server-antivirus|Avast Core Security]]</nowiki>. As per the vendor's website, this supports Ubuntu 16.04 and above.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.bitdefender.com/business/enterprise-products/enterprise-security.html|GRAVITYZONE ENTERPRISE SECURITY]]</nowiki>. As per the vendor, supports Ubuntu 12.04 and above.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.eset.com/int/business/endpoint-antivirus-linux/|ESET NOD32 Antivirus Business Edition for Linux Desktop]]</nowiki> Vendor advertises Ubuntu support (other products for mail and file servers available).
* <nowiki>[[http://www.f-prot.com/download/home_user/download_fplinux.html|F-PROT Antivirus for Linux Workstations - for home use]]</nowiki>. Please see <nowiki>[[XFProt]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://pandacloudcleaner.pandasecurity.com/facebook/|Panda Cloud Cleaner]]</nowiki> Requires Facebook login.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.sophos.com/en-us/products/free-tools/sophos-antivirus-for-linux.aspx|Sophos Antivirus for Linux]]</nowiki> As per the vendor's website, 16.04 LTS and 18.04 LTS are supported.
* <nowiki>[[https://www.symantec.com/products/endpoint-protection|Symantec Endpoint Protection]]</nowiki> Vendor advertises Ubuntu 14.04 and 16.04 support.

== Reasons Linux is less prone to malware ==

* Programs are run as normal user, not root user
* Open source - more eyes on the system source code
* Diverse system configurations
* Less malware actors overall focus on linux. However, proficient malware actors do target linux.
 
== Other Links ==

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Linuxvirus

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Antivirus/Avg

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitDefender - Community page for BitDefender

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Antivirus/Avira - Community page for Avira

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Firewall

 https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Security

----
CategorySecurity
