{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<nowiki>[[http://www.avira.com/en/download/product/avira-free-antivirus|Avira]]</nowiki> is a German-produced antivirus package which has a Unix/Linux version in addition to those for Windows.

This is, largely, aimed at running the package as a daemon carrying out tasks such as scanning a mail spool directory, or shared disks/directories that more vulnerable systems may access, to catch malware before it is passed on to Windows machines.

The PDF manual for the Unix/Linux version is aimed at a 'junior sysadmin' level, and it is recommended that you read through this first, in its entirety. Anything beyond a "vanilla" configuration which scans /home will require the editing of config files.

=== Installation ===

Once you have downloaded the gzipped installation file, you have to unpack and install it. This is achieved in a terminal window as follows:
<pre>
$ cd /tmp
$ gunzip ~/Downloads/antivir_workstation-pers.tar.gz
$ tar -x -f ~/Downloads/antivir_workstation-pers.tar
</pre>
''Note that the unpacking commands differ from that specified in the Avira documentation!''

You will have created a directory containing the full Avira package in /tmp now, in running through the process I've ended up with `antivir-workstation-pers-3.1.3.5-0`.

The license key is, slightly confusingly, labelled as for Windows. However, it is perfectly usable for Linux too. Simply download or copy it into the newly created directory.
<pre>
$ cp ~/Downloads/hbedv.key ./
</pre>

Regrettably, the `dazuko` file system kernel module is no longer maintained, which means you cannot have genuine realtime scanning.

Building the package is straightforward:
<pre>
$ cd antivir-workstation-pers-3.1.3.5-0
$ sudo ./install
</pre>
And, follow the prompts.
