{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


You can use the Ubuntu Live Cd to install packages (i.e. to an older offline Ubuntu computer).

=== Source.list ===
If you have a new Live CD and the Live CD in the Source.list file, comment all the repositories excepting the CD and

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

After upgrade, uncomment all the other repositories in the source.list file.

Some computers can ask to use apt-cdrom. If so, follow the instructions that appears bellow. 

=== Apt-cdrom ===
apt-cdrom can add a new CDROM to APTs sources.list file (list of available repositories). It is necessary to use apt-cdrom to add CDs to the APT system, it cannot be done by hand. 

Put the Live CD in the unit and use one of these commands, in this order : 

* test: <code> sudo apt-cdrom --no-act add </code>
* if everything is OK: <code> sudo apt-cdrom add </code>
* <code> sudo apt-cdrom ident </code>
* <code> sudo apt-cdrom -d "your-cdrom-mount-point" -r </code>

==== Description and options ====
* '''add''' is used to add a new disc to the source list. It will unmount the CDROM device, prompt for a disk to be inserted and then procceed to scan it and copy the index files. If the disc does not have a proper .disk/ directory you will be prompted for a descriptive title. APT uses a CDROM ID to track which disc is currently in the drive and maintains a database of these IDs in /var/lib/apt/cdroms.list 

* '''ident''' is a <nowiki>[[debugging]]</nowiki> tool to report the identity of the current disc as well as the stored file name.

* '''-d''' or '''--cdrom''' : MountPoint (specify the location to mount the cdrom). This mount point must be listed in /etc/fstab and properly configured. 

* '''-r''' or '''--rename''' : rename a disc; change the label of a disk or override the disks given label. This option will cause apt-cdrom to prompt for a new label.
 
* '''-n''', '''--just-print''', '''--recon''' or '''--no-act''': no Changes; Do not change the sources.list file and do not write index files. Everything is still checked however. 

=== Test ===
After dist-upgrade you can test that everything is OK

<pre>
sudo apt-get -f install
sudo dpkg --configure -a
</pre>

=== See also ===
* http://linux.die.net/man/8/apt-cdrom
* <nowiki>[[AptGet-Offline]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryOffline CategoryPackageManagement CategoryHardware
