{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Terminology commonly used in offline package management: 

* Local machine : the offline ubuntu computer
* Remote machine: another computer with broadband Internet connection, used to dowload the packages
* Removable media: USB keydrive where store the scripts and dowloaded packages. Note that the disc should be formated with a filesystem that can handle long file names such as ext2/ext3, fat32 or vfat. 

=== Synaptic ===

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/AptMedium|apt-medium]]</nowiki> a wrapper script for apt frontends.
* SynapticPackageDownloadScript
* Using <nowiki>[[Synaptic-Offline]]</nowiki>.

=== GUIs other than Synaptic ===
Keryx is a portable, cross-platform package manager for APT-based (Ubuntu, Debian) systems. It provides a graphical interface for gathering updates, packages, and dependencies for offline computers. Keryx is free and open source.
You can get Keryx here: http://keryxproject.org/

=== Command line ===
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/AptMedium|apt-medium]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AptGet-Offline-PrintUris]]</nowiki>
* AptCdrom , to use the Ubuntu Live Cd as package repository for an older computer.
* <nowiki>[[AptOff]]</nowiki> script .
* <nowiki>[[http://apt-offline.alioth.debian.org/|apt-offline]]</nowiki>. "apt-offline list" do much better that "apt-get --print-uris", because 

It distinguishes the "suites" (backport, multimedia, volatile, stable, testing), and allow you to mix the suites. So if you installed package A from a suite, it will search the updates only on such suite.

=== Offline repository ===
<nowiki>[[AptGet-Offline-Repository|How to create a local package repository]]</nowiki>.

=== Wget ===
<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wget|wget]]</nowiki> is a computer program that implements simple and powerful content retrieval of files from internet servers 

==== -O ====

<pre>
wget -O file
</pre>

With this -O option, the documents will not be written to the appropriate files, but all will be concatenated together and written to file.

=== See also ===
* http://www.fifi.org/doc/apt/offline.html/ch1.html. Related information: <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Awk|awk]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://ar.geocities.com/novatocba/doc/frame/sources-eng.htm|Sources List update offline and packages without  Internet connection]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[Synaptic-Offline]]</nowiki>
 
-----
CategoryPackageManagement CategoryOffline
