{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

These changes are necessary to get the following scanners working: Tevion MD 9693, Medion MD 9705, Medion MD9693, Trust Easy Webscan 19200, Memorex Mem 48U and Umax AstraSlim SE. These all require the Artec48.usb firmware file.

This file can be found on the scanner's installation CD, the Windows folder: System32/Drivers or  downloaded here: http://www.mediafire.com/?yemdje2s2ic.
If that link doesn't work, try searching Google http://www.google.com/search?q=artec48.usb+download .

The given error relates to or a variation of:

Failed to open device 'artec_eplus48u:libusb:001:003':
Invalid argument.

Fix (graphical approach used for ease, advanced users may use Terminal text equivalents):
 a) Press Alt+F2 and run 'gksudo nautilus' (without quotes). You will be asked for your password before being taken to your root folder in Nautilus.
 b) Double click File System on the left pane and navigate to the folder etc/sane.d.
Download/paste Artec48.usb in here.
 c) Open the file artec_eplus48u.conf and use the menu option Search | Find to look for instances of  “Since”. Stop when you've found the line referring to your model.
 d) Eleven lines down from the “Since” text will be a line saying:
“option artecFirmwareFile /usr/share/sane/artec_eplus48u/Artec48.usb.”
 Replace this with:
“option artecFirmwareFile /etc/sane.d/Artec48.usb" (without quotes) and enter one line beneath it:
“option ePlusPro 0” (again, without quotes)
 e) Save the file and start Xsane Image Scanner from the Applications | Graphics menu. All should be well.

'''One user's experience:'''<<BR>>
I used the above as a guide, but all i needed to do under release 9.04 was:<<BR>>
create the folder (as root) `/etc/share/sane/artec_eplus48u` and place the file `Artec48.usb` in it.  That's all there was to it.  I then fired up xsane and i was off and scanning. The above link to the file `Artec48.usb` was busted but a little web searching quickly found it. 

'''Fast and easy:'''<<BR>>
From the Ubuntu 9.04 desktop. Alt F2 and then run 'gksudo nautilus' w/o quotes.
With Nautilus copy file Artec48.usb to a directory you create at
'/usr/share/sane/artec_eplus48u' 

'''Getting it to work with Simple Scan:'''<<BR>>
My first use with Simple Scan (ubuntu 10.04) was unsuccessful until I realized that creating the driver file Artec48.usb in the /etc/sane.d directory leaves the file unaccessable for ordinary users i.e. we mortal souls that do not login as root! This can be solved by changing the permission to at least "read-only" for root, group and world.<<BR>>
After the change Simple Scan works fine!
