{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Acer Aspire One 722 ==

Most common functionalities are working out of the box on Ubuntu.

Tested with AAO 722 June 2012 model with

* AMD C-60 APU with Radeon HD 6290
* AR8152 fast ethernet
* AR9485 WLAN
* Suyin Corp. 1.3M WebCam
* Elantech touchpad
* 320GB harddisk

== Ubuntu 12.10 and 12.04 ==

=== Works out of the box ===

* Screen (in 1366x768)
* Keyboard
* Touchpad (including one and two finger scrolling)
* Ethernet / Wired internet
* WLAN (12.10 ok, 12.04 see below)
* Audio
* Webcam
* SDHC card reader
* Suspend/Resume
* Wifi switch
* HDMI video output (1920x1080 working)

=== Needs help ===

Microphone: This works fine with kernel 3.6 and later, but for older kernels, use alsamixer to get it working, use settings as in http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1971229 post #7, use F6, F5 and scroll to the right. Increase both Mic Boosts to 100 on left channel and use c to set them to 0 on right channel. Additionally I had to go back to SystemSettings/Sound and set the input volume to max. In Skype I need to disable the option "allow Skype to automatically adjust my mixer levels".

Video drivers: The AMD Catalyst proprietary drivers before v.9 have a problem with suspend and resume. fglrx and fglrx-updates in 12.04.1 are too old. The only answer is to download the latest stable or beta version from AMD's website. With the 12.10 install of Catalyst (driver v.9.0.2), everything is verified as working.

Still have to test this in 12.10.

=== Not working ===

12.04 only: WLAN / Wireless internet: the ath9k driver for the Atheros Communications Inc. AR9485 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01) freezes the system.

 Workarounds:

** boot with LAN connection and disable Wireless in Network Manager menu
** disable the ath9k driver in /etc/modprobe.d/
** compile a new kernel, haven't seen the problem with kernel 3.5.0-3 yet
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa]]</nowiki> with this PPA also comes kernel 3.5.0-3

Broadcom wireless also can crash. This is fixed in the proprietary broadcom drivers. To use the Open Source drivers, the workaround is to make the network-boot the top list item in the BIOS setup.

== Ubuntu 14.04 ==

=== Works out of the box ===

* Screen (in 1366x768)
* Keyboard
* Touchpad (including one and two finger scrolling)
* Ethernet / Wired internet
* WLAN (seems to work)
* Audio
* Wifi switch

=== Not tested ===

* Webcam
* SDHC card reader
* HDMI video output (1920x1080)

=== Needs work ===

* Suspend/Resume (see note below)

Initially, Suspend/Resume worked.  After several months (in early 2015?), Resume started failing.  Specifically, after Resume, the screen would be blank.  After some experimentation, I determined that resume works with the Trusty kernels, such as 3.13.0-52 or -61.  Resume fails with Utopic kernels, such as 3.16.0-38 or -45.  Thankfully, I was able to use synaptic to downgrade my kernel to 3.13.  

=== Not working ===

At present I am not aware of anything that does not work.

== See Also ==

* AspireOne documented models, particulary AspireOne522

== External Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acer_Aspire_One|Acer Aspire One on Wikipedia]]</nowiki> - Major details for several models of Acer Aspire One.
