{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

How to get your ASUS U36SD running Ubuntu GNU/Linux.

== Compatibility ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Function'''
| '''11.04'''
| '''11.10'''
| '''12.04'''
| '''13.04'''
| '''13.10'''
| '''14.04'''
|-
| Audio (out-, in-ports, speaker, microphone)
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Graphics (without desktop effects)
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Graphics (with desktop effects)
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| High-end Graphics card
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| VGA port
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Dualmonitor setup
| N/A
| N/A
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| HDMI
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| USB 2.0
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| USB 3.0
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Bluetooth
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Card reader
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| LCD keys (Fn-F5,Fn-F6,Fn-F7)
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Display output switch (Fn-F8)
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Touchpad toggle (Fn-F9)
| <style="background-color: red; color: white;">NO
| <style="background-color: red; color: white;">NO
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Multimedia keys
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| N/A
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Suspend / Hibernate
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES *[1]
| N/A
| N/A
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Multi-touch touchpad
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
| <style="background-color: green; color: white;">YES
|-
| Full battery time
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| N/A
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
|-
| Webcam issue
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
| N/A
| N/A
| <style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">WIP
|-
| Fingerprint reader#
| <style="background-color: red; color: white;">NO
| <style="background-color: red; color: white;">NO
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
| N/A
|}

* YES - Works out of the box
* WIP - Works or works partly with some tweaking
* NO - No known fix (so far)
* N/A - Not tested
* # just some U36SD models

'''*[1] Works out of the box from 3.2.0-25-generic. Suspend-fix is still needed for older kernels (see below for fix)'''

== Tweaking ==
=== Desktop effects ===
Create a new file <code>/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-nvidia.conf</code> with the following content. (You need super user privileges. See <nowiki>[[#Creating_a_file_where_super user_permissions_are_required|here]]</nowiki> for help. 
<pre>
blacklist nouveau
blacklist nvidia
</pre>
Remove nvidia drivers (otherwise it's libGL.so will used by default) by running the following command
<pre>
sudo apt-get purge nvidia-current
</pre>

=== High end graphics card (Nvidia) ===
Since the laptop uses the so called Optimus technology, support for the high end graphics card is a bit limited. However, it is still possible to use it, by offloading a certain application (such as a game) to the nvidia card and then copying the content onto the Intel graphics buffer using VirtualGL.

One simple way of doing this is by installing <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee|Bumblebee]]</nowiki>. Simply call the following commands to install:
==== < 13.10 ====
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia
sudo usermod -a -G bumblebee $USER
</pre>

==== 13.10 ====
<pre>
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia primus linux-headers-generic
</pre>

Now log out, and then log in again.

To run programs making them use the nVidia card you need to use the command "optirun". For example to run "openarena" open a terminal and write "optirun openarena".

In case you want to use primus, invoke it with "optirun -b primus" instead.

==== 14.04 ====

Technically, both Intel and Nvidia graphic chips work out of the box in Ubuntu Trusty Tar (Unity) and the fancy desktop effects work all the same. However, in order to enable the new and better Nvidia Optimus support (PRIME), you first need to enable the proprietary driver (System Settings > Software Updates > Additional Drivers (rightmost tab). Select '''Using NVIDIA binary driver version 3XX.XX from nvidia-3XX (proprietary, tested)'''. This will download and install the new drivers. Restart your machine for the changes to take effect. Upon restart,look for <code>Nvidia X Server Settings</code> (from the <code>dash</code>) - you should now see many more options in the left hand menu. In the  '''PRIME Profiles''', you can select which card you want to use. Once the Nvidia card is enabled, you can also set the graphics behavior in the card's menu item.

=== Suspend ===
==== < 13.10 ====
Suspend doesn’t work out of the box because of a problem with the USB buses. To fix the problems do the following:

Create a new file <code>/etc/pm/sleep.d/20_custom-asus-u36sd</code> with the following content (you need to have administrative privileges to create it, see <nowiki>[[#Creating_a_file_where_super user_permissions_are_required|here]]</nowiki> for help.):

 <pre> 

BUSES="0000:00:1a.0 0000:00:1d.0"
XHCIBUSES="0000:04:00.0"

case "${1}" in
    hibernate|suspend)
##### Switch USB buses off
        for bus in $BUSES; do
            echo -n $bus | tee /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ehci_hcd/unbind
        done
        for bus in $XHCIBUSES; do
            echo -n $bus | tee /sys/bus/pci/drivers/xhci_hcd/unbind
        done
        ;;
    resume|thaw)
##### Switch USB buses back on
        for bus in $BUSES; do
            echo -n $bus | tee /sys/bus/pci/drivers/ehci_hcd/bind
        done
        for bus in $XHCIBUSES; do
            echo -n $bus | tee /sys/bus/pci/drivers/xhci_hcd/bind
        done
        ;;
esac
 </pre>
Make it executable:
<pre>
sudo chmod +x /etc/pm/sleep.d/20_custom-asus-u36sd
</pre>

This will make the suspending the computer work. Resume, however, will only work if you wait to trigger it around half a minute after suspending was completed. If you resume too early, the computer will do a hard reboot instead.

==== 13.10 ====
Nothing to be done, works out of the box.

=== Fn-keys ===
==== < 11.10 ====
Download and install asus-nb-wmi driver (included in 2.6.39, but since Natty runs 2.6.38 need to build it ourselves):
<pre>
sudo apt-get install git build-essential
git clone git://git.iksaif.net/acpi4asus-dkms.git
cd acpi4asus-dkms
make
sudo make install
sudo modprobe asus-nb-wmi
</pre>

==== >= 11.10 ====
Nothing needs to be done unless you need the disable-touchpad (f9) functional. You may still do it manually via <pre>
synclient touchpadoff=1
synclient touchpadoff=0
</pre>

=== Bluetooth ===
==== < 13.10 ====
The ath3k module in Ubuntu 11.04 doesn't manage to detect the Bluetooth device because it doesn't contain the identification numbers, so one need specify it manually. To do so do the following.

Get a super user shell.
<pre>
sudo -s -H
</pre>
Enter the following commands. Ignore the errors from <code>rmmod</code> if any.
<pre>
service bluetooth stop
rmmod btusb
rmmod ath3k
modprobe -a ath3k
echo "13d3 3304" > /sys/bus/usb/drivers/ath3k/new_id
modprobe btusb
service bluetooth start
exit
</pre>

If it still doesn't work, try running the following command.

<pre>
sudo hciconfig hci0 up
</pre>

==== 13.10 ====
Nothing to be done, works out of the box.

=== USB 3.0 ===
==== 11.10 ====
Edit the startup options:
<pre>
gksu gedit /etc/default/grub
</pre>

Find the line:
<pre>
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT
 </pre>

and add the following within the quotation marks, being sure to separate it with a space from any other entries:

 <pre>
pci=nomsi,noaer
 </pre>

at last run 

<pre>
sudo update-grub
</pre>

and on the next reboot the USB 3.0 port should work.

==== 13.10 ====
Nothing to be done, works.

=== Battery time ===
There are two easy things that can double your battery time.

==== Intel integrated graphics card power management ====

Open the file <code>/etc/default/grub</code> with super user privileges (See <nowiki>[[#Creating_a_file_where_super user_permissions_are_required|here]]</nowiki> for instructions).

Find this line:
<pre>
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
 </pre>

and change it into this:
 <pre>
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.i915_enable_rc6=1"
 </pre>

then run the following command in a terminal:
<pre>
sudo update-grub
</pre>

==== High end graphics card (nvidia) power management ====
By default, the high end graphics card will be activated but not in use. You can decrease the battery usage by disabling it. Either you follow the instructions on how to enable the <nowiki>[[#High_end_graphics_card_.28Nvidia.29|high end graphics card]]</nowiki> which will do this for you or you manually configure your system to use acpi_call directly to disable it.

==== powertop ====
You may use powertop to tune up/debug your power consumption/battery issues.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install powertop
</pre>

=== Webcam issue ===
to get the camera to not be upside-down in Skype:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:libv4l
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install libv4l-0
</pre>

On Ubuntu 11.10 you must install the 32 bits version of libc4l-0 for skype as it is available only in 32 bits in the packages repository:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:libv4l
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install libv4l-0:i386
</pre>

then run your application with "LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so" in front of it. eg to run skype:
<pre>
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
</pre>

== Other issues ==
=== Splash ===
If you want more consistently looking (but possibly slower) boot, try the following.

Create a new file <code>/etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/splash</code> with the following content. You need super user privileges to create it. See <nowiki>[[#Creating_a_file_where_super user_permissions_are_required|here]]</nowiki> for help. 
<pre>
FRAMEBUFFER=y
</pre>
Then run 
<pre>
sudo update-initramfs -u
</pre>

=== Touchpad middle click ===
This enables middle click on touchpad (three fingers tap):
<pre>
synclient TapButton3=2
</pre>
More info is here: http://askubuntu.com/a/132548

=== Touchpad horizontal scrolling ===
Gets enabled easily by
<pre>
synclient HorizTwoFingerScroll=1
</pre>
More info here: http://askubuntu.com/questions/264091/enable-horizontal-scrolling-in-ubuntu-13-04-and-13-10

=== Disable touchpad while typing ===
This will make the trick:
<pre>
syndaemon -i 1 -d -t -K
</pre>
There is a "Disable touchpad while typing" option in the ''Mouse and Touchpad'' settings menu (Xfce), but do NOT use it, since it is unusable due to the default too-long delay - see here
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-settings/+bug/1045758/comments/3 for more info.

=== Hard Drive Power Management ===
When running on battery, the default hard drive power saving setting causes the drive heads to continuously park and then ramp up again. This results in a quiet "clicking" sound approximately every five seconds. You can adjust this setting by using hdparm to disable power management or to set it to the least aggressive setting (in the latter case, it will still park the heads though far less often). To do so, open a terminal and type:
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/hdparm.conf
</pre>
Add the following lines (Note: use 255 to disable or 254 to set to the least aggressive setting):
<pre>
/dev/sda {
    apm = 254
    apm_battery = 254
}
</pre>

For this to apply after resuming from suspend:
<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/pm/sleep.d/51_hdparm-settings
</pre>

Enter this in the empty text file:
<pre>
case $1 in
    hibernate)
        echo "A hook to restore hdparm value on resume"
        ;;
    suspend)
        echo "A hook to restore hdparm settings at resume."
        ;;
    thaw)
        hdparm -B 254 /dev/sda
        ;;
    resume)
        hdparm -B 254 /dev/sda
        ;;
*** )  echo "somebody is calling me totally wrong."
        ;;
esac
</pre>

Save and quit. 
Make it executable:
<pre>
sudo chmod +x /etc/pm/sleep.d/51_hdparm-settings
</pre>

Reboot to apply. 

=== Dualmonitor setup ===
==== 12.04 ====
To turn on secondary display on VGA:
<pre>
xrandr --output LVDS1 --auto --output VGA1 --auto --right-of LVDS1
</pre>
To use just the laptop primary display:
<pre>
xrandr --output LVDS1 --auto --output VGA1 --off
</pre>

==== 13.10 ====
Nothing to be done, works out of the box, even via Fn+F8.

== Xubuntu 13.10 specific issues ==
=== sound indicator bug ===
The solution for the malfunctioning sound icon in the indicator plugin area (top panel by default) is here: http://askubuntu.com/a/360840

== Tips ==
=== Creating a file where super user permissions are required ===
How to edit/create a file <code>/etc/example_file</code>.
==== Using graphical editor ====
<pre>
gksu gedit /etc/example_file
</pre>

==== Using a simple console based editor ====
<pre>
sudo nano /etc/example_file
</pre>

== Reported minor issues ==
* 'Jumpy' two-finger scroll

== Links ==
* <nowiki>[[Asus_U36JC]]</nowiki> - Previous generation
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1830430]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Forums thread
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Pm-utils#Having_the_hd_power_management_level_automatically_set_again_on_resume]]</nowiki> - Hard drive power management
