{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Audacity is a free, open source application for recording and editing audio. For more information, see the <nowiki>[[http://audacity.sourceforge.net/|Audacity project home page]]</nowiki>.

== Installing Audacity ==

Audacity is not installed by default in Ubuntu. To start using Audacity, install the package <code>audacity</code> from the <code>Universe</code> software channel. For more information on installing packages, see InstallingSoftware.

Once installed, click ''Applications -> Sound & Video -> Audacity'' to start Audacity.

== Audacity and PulseAudio ==

Ubuntu 8.04 and above install PulseAudio as the default sound server. You have to make sure they don't both grab the sound device at the same time. 

=== Use the pulse device ===

For Ubuntu 9.04 and above, there is an "ALSA: pulse" device listed in Audacity's preferences dialog. Make sure it is selected. (If there is no "ALSA: pulse", try "ALSA: default".) Now audacity records and plays back via !PulseAudio, and with this you can also use !PulseAudio's features (such as e g recording monitoring streams).

==== Intrepid (8.10) ====

In order to get the "ALSA: pulse" device as mentioned above, David Henningsson has built fixed packages; they can be installed by adding his PPA as described in https://edge.launchpad.net/~diwic/+archive. 

=== Suspend PulseAudio ===

If the above solution does not work for you, start audacity with this terminal command:
"pasuspender -- audacity"

This will temporarily pause !PulseAudio while running audacity (causing other applications to stop sound input/output). 

== Troubleshooting xruns ==

XRuns are drop-outs and/or clicks in recording or playback that are caused by your computer doing other things than handling soundcard input/output buffers. In the Audacity layer you can try to increase the latency (edit -> preferences -> recording). 

== Locating libmp3lame.so When Exporting MP3 Files ==

By default, the library libmp3lame.so is not installed in Ubuntu. Use the table below to find the name of the package you have to install depending on your Ubuntu version. (For more information on installing packages, see InstallingSoftware.)

* Dapper (6.06), Hardy (8.04): package <code>liblame0</code> from the <code>Multiverse</code> software channel.
* Intrepid (8.10), Jaunty (9.04), Karmic (9.10): package <code>libmp3lame0</code> from the <code>Multiverse</code> software channel.
* Lucid (10.04): package <code>liblame0</code> from the <code>Multiverse</code> software channel. Please note that Lucid regains the <code>liblame0</code> package name. This is just a virtual package provided by the real <code>libmp3lame0</code> package.

You can verify Audacity finds the library going to: Edit -> Preferences... -> Libraries -> MP3 Export Library.

When Audacity asks you to locate libmp3lame.so, you will be able to locate it in <code>/usr/lib</code> and export MP3 files.

---- 
CategorySoftware CategoryAudio
