{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Making your microphone work ===
If you’re having trouble getting your audio input to work in programs like ''sound-recorder'' it may just be because Ubuntu ships with the necessary options disabled or muted and hidden away in hard-to-find places. The ''sound-recorder'' package might also not be installed. Here’s what you do to get a microphone plugged into an audio port going:

==== System Settings ====
1. Go to '''System Settings ▸ Hardware ▸ Sound''' (or click on the speaker icon on the menu bar) and select '''Sound Settings'''
2. Select the '''Input''' tab
3. Select the appropriate device in '''Select sound from'''
4. Make sure the device is '''not''' set to '''Mute'''
5. You should see an active input level as you use your device

==== Audacity ====
1. <nowiki>[[http://apt.ubuntu.com/p/audacity|Install Audacity]]</nowiki>
2. Go to menu: '''Edit ▸ Preferences ▸ Devices'''. Go to section '''Recording'''
3. Choose the appropriate recording device (make sure the device is plugged-in)
4. Click '''OK'''
5. Record the audio.
6. You should see the audio sensor responding and you should be able to playback the audio

=== If your microphone still does not work ===

If your microphone still does not work in apps, try recording by running the following command in a terminal window: 
<pre>
arecord test.wav
</pre> 
and speaking into your microphone. To stop this command press Ctrl+C.

This will test basic recording functionality by creating '''test.wav''' in your HOME directory. Open this file to determine whether you successfully captured audio when using the ‘arecord’ command.
This may not work if the system has not detected your input device as default. 

If this fails, it is unlikely that other applications can successfully capture audio without further troubleshooting. In some cases you may need to configure your ALSA setup or try testing with '''Audacity''' as per instructions above.

=== More information on configuring ALSA ===
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingProcedure

----
CategoryAudio CategoryHardware
