{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Ubuntu contains <nowiki>[[https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Brasero|Brasero]]</nowiki>, which allows for drag and drop audio cd creation.

Starting Brasero is as simple as putting a blank writable CD in your burner - you should see a popup that asks which type of CD you wish to burn. Click the "Create Audio CD" button, and Brasero will launch. Otherwise, start Brasero through the Launcher (ie, touch the Super key) by typing "audio" or "brasero" and choosing the Brasero application.

For more information on how to use Brasero, see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Brasero

== How to Create an Audio CD from the Shell ==

Here's how to make an audio CD from the console.

'''cdrecord''' will create audio CDs from wav files.
To convert your ogg vorbis files to wav files is as easy as
<pre>
 $ oggdec Mysong.ogg
</pre>
A song takes about 7 seconds to decode on my machine.

For flac files:
<pre>
 $ flac --decode Mysong.flac
</pre>
This takes about 4 seconds to decode on my machine.

Or to copy an audio CD:
<pre>
 $ cdparanoia -B && eject
</pre>
will rip the current CD in the drive to the current directory, in separate WAV files.

To burn the CD, just type::
<pre>
 $ cdrecord dev=device-name \*.wav
</pre>
Replace device-name with the device name for your cd burner [/dev/hdd
on my machine].

----
CategoryAudio
