{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Vuze (Formerly known as Azureus) is a Java based BitTorrent client, with support for I2P and Tor anonymous communication protocols. It currently supports Windows, Mac OS X, Linux and Unix. Azureus was first released in June 2003 at Sourceforge.net, mostly to experiment with the Standard Widget Toolkit from Eclipse. It is one of the most popular BitTorrent clients.

== Installation ==

'''Note: vuze has been removed from the repositories.  It is only available for Ubuntu 14.04 (Trusty Tahr).'''

For Ubuntu 14.04, install the <nowiki>[[apt:vuze|vuze]]</nowiki> package from the Universe repository.

Other releases currently need to download from the installer from the <nowiki>[[http://www.vuze.com/|Vuze website]]</nowiki>.

== Troubleshooting ==

=== FAT32 partition under Linux ===

To save your downloads to a FAT32 (Windows) partition mounted under Ubuntu, you must enable Tools -> Options -> Files -> "Enable incremental file creation." Otherwise, you will see "Operation not permitted, setLength fails (allocateFiles...)" errors during file allocation.

== Links ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.vuze.com/|Vuze/Azureus Homepage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.vuze.com/|Vuze Wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://forum.vuze.com/|Vuze Forums]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.vuze.com/w/User_Guide|Vuze Beginners Guide]]</nowiki>
----
