{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

Azure is Microsoft's global, cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS). 

== Azure Cross-Platform Command-Line Interface (xplat-cli) ==

The Azure Cross-Platform Command-Line Interface (xplat-cli) provides a set of open source, cross-platform commands for working with the Azure Platform. The xplat-cli provides much of the same functionality found in the Azure Management Portal, such as the ability to manage websites, virtual machines, mobile services, SQL Database and other services provided by the Azure platform.

The xplat-cli is written in JavaScript, and requires Node.js. It is implemented using the Azure SDK for Node.js, and released under an Apache 2.0 license.

=== Installation ===

In Trusty, one may install this via a terminal:<pre>
sudo apt-get -y install nodejs-legacy npm
sudo npm install -g azure-cli
</pre> Once installed, one may query the help to get detailed information on a given command. For example: <pre>
azure help site log
info:    Executing command help
help:    Commands to manage your Web Site diagnostics
help:    
help:    Download diagnostic log
help:      site log download [options] [name]
help:    
help:    Live diagnostic log
help:      site log tail [options] [name]
help:    
help:    Configure diagnostics
help:      site log set [options] [name]
help:    
help:    Options:
help:      -h, --help  output usage information
</pre>

== External links ==

* Azure Homepage - <nowiki>[[https://azure.microsoft.com]]</nowiki>
* xplat-cli Homepage - <nowiki>[[https://github.com/Azure/azure-xplat-cli]]</nowiki>
