{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== UDS Maverick ==
These are the notes from the session during UDS Maverick about touch support.

Rolling touch wiki page: <nowiki>[[X-Blueprints-Touchscreen]]</nowiki>

=== What can we do for Maverick? ===
* Simple modifications to apps to be more touch friendly
** gtk touch screen mode will tweak appropriate gtk widgets to make them more touch friendly
** bigger icons?
** other themeing changes?
* extend compiz to support gestures

=== Testing ===
* Use bug tag 'touch'
* Make cursor theme that is a big circle (to emulate visible region when using finger)

=== Post-Maverick ===
* on-screen keyboard
** want xkb + ibus support, discoverable, be able to change orientation (for tablet/slate)
** onboard: only xkb, only English layout
** need someone to make one for xkb + ibus
** probably will take two cycles (i.e. not Maverick)

=== Integration options ===
* toolkits
** Qt (has full support already)
** gtk+ (some support upstream)
** scrollbars (flick-to-scroll) are needed.  There is a kinetic scroll widget that someone made (for Midori).
** can't distinguish between finger and mouse (to change how UI responds).  perhaps set a 'mode' based on whether screen is rotated
* onscreen-keyboard
** should be hooked up to entry-widgets (Qt, gtk+)
** should be overlayed on UI (taps get recognized, swipes "fall through" to windows under onscreen-keyboard)

=== apps to target ===
* compiz (wm) could get gesture support
* app indicators/windicators?
* web browser
** chromium is becoming touch friendly.  getting rid of menus
* media player
** banshee created whole new UI: kubano (sp?).  It uses no menus, very big widgets (like big album art images on a flickable view)
** rhythmbox: album/artist browser is small
* document viewer (not creator)
* empathy
** some bits like the expanders for groups are too small
* shotwell
** good except small fonts/targets on sidebar (sidebars are common problem -- can we create a generic sidebar widget and modify apps to inherit from that)

=== Unity ===
* app indicators, menus will need to collapse
* need to regenerate fonts for subpixel rendering when rotated (do after delay to allow UI to be responsive immediately)
* app indicator and menus may be spaced too closely
* Spec for touch is being worked on (don't have right-click)

=== Guidelines ===
* Anything menu-driven or near the edge of the screen will be difficult to use
* Stylus is very different than finger
* Bigger buttons
* default spacing/sizing changes for menus so they globally get more touch friendly when appropriate
* tablet/netbook screens tend to be wide aspect ratio because that's what cheap for manufacturers

=== touch onscreen keyboard requirements ===
* create one from scratch [arnegoetje can mentor, but not code]

* needs to be tied with keyboard indicator to change layouts on demand
* needs to work with IBus to change layout whenever a different IME is chosen
* get layouts from XKB
* for IMEs we need to produce layouts by ourself
* store the layouts in the ibus packages (modules)
* add function keys, like arrow keys, etc. (configurable)
* detach layout from the actual keys submitted to IBus (i.e. display Bopomofo, but submit Latin characters from US English layout)
* use python-virtkey for emulating modifier keys.
* use SVGs for the keys being displayed
 
* accessibility
** when user moves his finger over the key, use text-to-speech to tell the user which letter is under his finger
** needs text-to-speech framework [luke]
** needs hints for the text-to-speech synthesizer to tell the user which letter  he is dealing with
** use espeak?

=== Actions ===
* [ACTION] File bugs for touch related issues with applications and desktop (using tag 'touch')
* [ACTION] investigate gtk touch mode
* [ACTION] make a cursor theme with large cursor that simulates finger such that apps can be tested
* [ACTION] find someone interested in making an onscreen keyboard

=== Comments ===

[bryce 2010-05-07]
(Actually, these days the X side of things is pretty minimal; X's evdev driver is basically just a thin wrapper around kernel level support.  Most of the remaining X bits like -evtouch and tslib are becoming obsolescent in favor of evdev.)

[rickspencer3 2010-05-11]
What about calibration?
http://github.com/tias/xinput_calibrator/tree/debian

[brunogirin 2010-05-15]
Some observations that you may want to take into account.

On #1, what about introducing MPX in order to support multi-touch? Widget toolkits and applications need to make use of it for it to be useful but AFAIK Qt4.6 will support it and having support at the X level is the first step to get multi-touch enabled apps.

Integration options: to change how the UI responds, the simplest way may be to detect hardware capabilities, such as:
* is there a touch-based interface?
* does the touch interface support multi-touch?
* is there a pointing device plugged in (mouse, trackball, graphic tablet, etc)? -- note that this can change dynamically when unplugging a USB mouse for instance
* is there a physical keyboard plugged in? -- this can also change dynamically
and then decide what profile to use based on capabilities:
* touch only => use a touch optimised interface with soft keyboard
* pointing device => use a standard interface, even if the device is touch-enabled
* no physical keyboard => enable soft keyboard

What about supporting devices like the Nintendo DS that has 2 screens, one of them touch-enabled, the other one a standard display? In practice, this may be exposed as a display with half its area touch enabled. Would this impact this blueprint?

Guidelines: there is no concept of "hover" with a touch based interface. You only know the user's finger's position when the user actually touches the screen which means that the position of the cursor is only available after a "mouse down" event. This means that the accessibility requirement for the onscreen keyboard above can't work: you only know what key the user's finger is over *after* he presses that key. The only exception to that rule are pressure sensitive touch screens (light pressure = hover; heavy pressure = touch) so maybe that would be another hardware capability to take into account.

For comprehensive feedback on using Ubuntu on a touch-based device, some users in the ubuntu-uk mailing list have been experimenting with the O2 Joggler and have created an EtherPad here: http://pad.ubuntu-uk.org/Joggler
