{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Today's X rarely requires manual configuration.  X now automatically configures itself with reasonable defaults.  Both GNOME and KDE provide GUI utilities for customizing settings beyond these defaults if you like.

However, sometimes you need to muck with the configuration manually, beyond what these tools allow.

=== Quick xorg.conf ===

Most systems don't ship with an X config file any more, but sometimes you need one.  Here's a basic skeleton:

<pre>
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
</pre>

=== Configuring using xorg.conf.d (Ubuntu 10.04 and newer) ===

Files ending in *.conf in the <code>/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d</code> directory are automatically loaded by X at start prior to reading the xorg.conf.  These files can each contain one or more Sections in the same format used by <code>xorg.conf</code>.

Users can continue making custom configuration in /etc/xorg.conf as usual; the .conf snippets are mainly there for the distro or hw vendor to ship default InputClass rules and custom overrides.

=== Configuration Recipes ===

General Configuration
* <nowiki>[[X-Config-SessionStartup|Session Startup]]</nowiki> - .xprofile, .xsessionrc, .gnomerc
* <nowiki>[[X-Rootless|Rootless X]]</nowiki> - Running X as a user process, not as the root user
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers|Xorg On The Edge]]</nowiki> - for bleeding edge packages
* <nowiki>[[X-Config-Input|Input device configuration]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[X-Config-Keyboard|Keyboard configuration]]</nowiki>

Display Configuration
** <nowiki>[[X-Config-Resolution|Display resolution configuration]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[X-Config-Multihead|Multihead configuration]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[X-Config-SVideo|SVideo configuration]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[X-Config-HDMI|HDMI configuration]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto|Binary Driver Howto]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HybridGraphics|Hybrid Graphics Howto]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/HybridGraphics|Hybrid Graphics (12.04.3 or >=13.10)]]</nowiki>

=== Other Resources ===

* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingXAutoconfiguration
* http://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/HowToRandR12
* http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2
* http://www.intellinuxgraphics.org/dualhead.html [dead link]
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultimediaKeys
* http://en.opensuse.org/GNOME/Multiscreen
* https://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/InputHotplugGuide
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultimediaKeys
----
CategoryXTeam<<BR>>
