{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-image: url('https://librarian.launchpad.net/1812570/bugsquad.png'); background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==
When working with X bugs it is sometimes not possible to log in to the desktop environment - GNOME or KDE.  By default wireless networking setup is a part of the desktop environment.  Debugging X often requires network access, so this means that normally a wired network connection is required when X isn't starting.

This page describes how to set up your system so that a wireless connection is available without needing to log in to the desktop.

=== NetworkManager ===

==== GNOME ====
 1. ''Right'' click on the network applet in your panel, and select ''Edit Connections…''

 {{https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Debugging/WirelessWithoutX?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=nm-applet-menu}}
 2. Go to the ''Wireless'' tab, select the wireless connection you want to make available, and press ''Edit''.

 {{https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Debugging/WirelessWithoutX?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=network-connections}}
 3. Check the ''Available to all users'' box, and press ''Apply…''.  Network Manager will ask for your password.  Your network connection can now be used without logging in graphically.

 {{https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Debugging/WirelessWithoutX?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=available-to-all-users}}

==== Command-line ====

NetworkManager now comes with a command-line utility to do some amounts of configuration.

You can list the connections you have previously created:

<pre>
$ nmcli con
NAME                      UUID                                   TYPE              SCOPE    TIMESTAMP-REAL                    
Auto eth0                 af1d8c7f-be09-478c-baf7-8fc894aa4cff   802-3-ethernet    system   never                             
NAME                      UUID                                   TYPE              SCOPE    TIMESTAMP-REAL                    
Auto Ubuntu               0e539a80-5b84-4b2b-9bdb-add530e32cd5   802-11-wireless   user     Mon Oct  4 12:18:47 2010        
</pre>

To connect, you can then use a connection's ID/UUID:

<pre>
$ nmcli con up uuid 0e539a80-5b84-4b2b-9bdb-add530e32cd5
</pre>

There is help available by way of the <code>nmcli help</code> command.

=== ConnMan ===
For Maverick, the Ubuntu Netbook Edition images plan to use network-indicator and ConnMan.  Currently there is no GUI support for setting up system-wide network connections.

==== Command-line ====

Connman (with the 'indicator-network' package) includes a basic command-line application called <code>cmcc</code>.

=== Wicd ===

An alternative to using network-manager is to use wicd.  It has applet and curses-based clients.  To use this, you should first install wicd, then remove network-manager:

<pre>
	apt-get install wicd wicd-curses wicd-cli wicd-gtd
	apt-get remove network-manager
</pre>

=== ifupdown and iwconfig ===

If you mainly use your home wireless, you can simply set up your wireless interface through /etc/network/interfaces.  (See 'man 5 interfaces').  A working example is:

<pre>
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
        wireless-essid MyEssid
        wireless-key XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
        address 192.168.254.3
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.254.254

</pre>

You can get a list of access points using

<pre>
	iwlist wlan0 scan
</pre>

and connect using

<pre>
	iwconfig wlan0 essid MyEssid
	iwconfig wlan0 enc XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
	dhclient wlan0
</pre>

Note that you can't really use iwconfig when using network-manager (or wicd), because the daemon will keep over-writing your changes.

----
CategoryDebugging
