{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Building a new release tarball ====
* Retrieve tarball
* untar it
* mv xf86-video-ati-6.12.0.tar.gz xserver-xorg-video-ati_6.12.0.orig.tar.gz
* mv xf86-video-ati-6.12.0/ xserver-xorg-video-ati-6.12.0/
* cp -r xserver-xorg-video-ati-6.11.0/debian xserver-xorg-video-ati-6.12.0/
* Doublecheck that ChangeLog and other autoconfage is present; else you may have wrong tarball...
* Review applicability of stuff in debian/patches
* dch -i; set dist, version, and commit message
* update-maintainer
* debuild -i -sa -S
* sudo ARCH=i386 DIST=intrepid pbuilder build <.dsc>
   -or-
* debuild -i -uc -us
  -or-
* dpkg-buildpackage -d -us -uc -rfakeroot

==== Building from a git snapshot ====

* Retrieve from git, note the date
* Run:
<pre>
  ./autogen.sh
  git log > ChangeLog
  rm -rf .git autom4te.cache config.log config.h config.status
  find . -name Makefile | xargs rm
</pre>
* NEW_ORIG_DIR=xserver-xorg-video-ati-$VERSION+git$DATE
* NEW_ORIG_PKG=xserver-xorg-video-ati_$VERSION+git$DATE
* mv xf86-video-ati $NEW_ORIG_DIR
* tar czf  ${NEW_ORIG_PKG}.orig.tar.gz  $NEW_ORIG_DIR
* cp -r xserver-xorg-video-ati-$OLD_VERSION/debian $NEW_ORIG_DIR
* Review applicability of stuff in debian/patches
* dch -i; set dist, version, and commit message
* update-maintainer
* debuild -i -sa -S 
* sudo ARCH=i386 DIST=intrepid pbuilder build <.dsc>
   -or-
* debuild -i -uc -us
  -or-
* dpkg-buildpackage -d -us -uc -rfakeroot

==== Building and installing manually straight from git ====

<pre>
 ./autogen.sh && make
 sudo cp --remove-destination src/.libs/intel_drv.so /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/
 sudo killall X
</pre>

=== Ubuntu X Updates PPA ===

We maintain a semi-official PPA repository of X.org driver updates at:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates/

ubuntu-x-swat members are welcome to upload new package updates here, but please note the guidelines below.

We encourage users to rely on these packages as updates on top of a regular stable distribution.  Thus it is important that packages we place in here be well tested and known to be stable.  Do not upload packages for testing purposes - use the main X-Testing PPA, or a PPA in xorg-edgers, or your own PPA in these cases.

Packages should be named in one of the following forms:

* Backports of Ubuntu packages: 1:6.12.2-0ubuntu1~maverick~xup1
* Backports of SRU's: 2:1.16.0-4ubuntu1.2~natty~xup1
* Debian syncs:   1.2.5-1ubuntu0~oneiric~xup1
* New upstream releases not in Ubuntu:   304.51-0ubuntu0~precise~xup1 
* New git snapshots from upstream:   1:1.2.3~git20120913.8637f772-0ubuntu0~quantal~xup1 

The idea here is to select version numbering that is both consistent, and enables the packages to be gracefully upgraded from if a new version is released to Ubuntu via an SRU.
