{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Booting LiveCD Without X ==

LiveCD environments can usually be helpful for testing, but if you're troubleshooting a problem where X does not start up, that makes it difficult to retrieve the log files and other such things.  But it can be done:

0.  Obtain a Live CD for the release you're testing:  http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/

1.  At the CD boot menu, add "text" to the boot options:  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootParameters

2.  The CD will now boot but not start X.

3.  You can grab xrandr data without starting an X session like this:

<pre>
 xinit -e 'sh -c "xrandr --verbose > xrandr.txt" '
</pre>

This will try to start X and log some information about the active screen resolution to the file xrandr.log before it stops X again.

4.  Start up an X session like this:

<pre>
 startx
</pre>

or

<pre>
 /usr/X11R6/bin/X :0
</pre>

== Bypassing/Disabling gdm ==

=== Option 0 - Automatic Login Through gdm ===
You can set up gdm to automatically log in a user either via <code>System > Administration > Login Window > Security > Enable Automatic Login</code>, or by editing the <code>/etc/gdm/gdm.conf</code> configuration file, and set  <code>AutomaticLoginEnable=true</code> and <code>AutomaticLogin=</code><username>.  

=== Option 1 - Turning off GDM after bootup ===

Switch to a tty (ctrl+alt+F1) or use ssh, log in, and shut off GDM for the current session like this:

<pre>
   $ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
</pre>

Check to see if you have any remaining X sessions running, and if so, kill them:

<pre>
   $ ps aux | grep /usr/bin/X
   bryce     5379  0.0  0.0   1784   552 pts/35   S+   03:10   0:00 grep /usr/bin/X
   root      7051  1.0  5.0 112224 105556 tty7    Ss+  Jul01 197:49 /usr/bin/X :0 -br -audit 0 -auth /var/lib/gdm/:0.Xauth -nolisten tcp vt7

   $ sudo kill 7051
   $ sudo kill -KILL 7051
</pre>
or just
<pre>
   $ sudo pkill Xorg
   $ sudo pkill -KILL Xorg
</pre>

This option is appropriate if your system boots up okay other than X, such that you can either ssh into it or access a tty.  If gdm is completely locking up your system during boot up, then see the next options.

=== Option 2 - Temporarily disabling GDM ===

To disable gdm from running during boot, you can either boot with the "<code>text</code>" <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootParameters|boot parameter]]</nowiki> or disable the rc service like this:

<pre>
   sudo update-rc.d gdm stop 2 3 4 5 .
</pre>

{i} Please note that there is a dot at the end. This is essential. 

Then to re-enable it later,

<pre>
   sudo update-rc.d gdm start 30 2 3 4 5 . stop 01 0 1 6 .
</pre>

This option is useful if gdm or X locks up the system during boot, or if you wish to run X in complete isolation from gdm.

=== Option 3 - Removing GDM entirely ===

In order to disable X from starting when booting the system, you can
simply remove gdm from the init scripts:

  sudo update-rc.d -f gdm remove

and, to enable X again when booting:

  sudo update-rc.d gdm defaults

This option is probably only useful if you know you want to always boot X manually, and want to eliminate graphical booting entirely.

== Starting up X manually ==

=== Option 1:  startx script ===
From the text console, run 

<pre>
startx
</pre>

=== Option 2:  Starting X directly ===
From the text console with no other X running, you can invoke X directly, bypassing all the startup scripts and stuff:

<pre>
/usr/X11R6/bin/X :0 
</pre>

If you're running multiple X sessions, use :1, :2 for second, third sessions.  (For debugging, it's usually easiest to stick with a single X session invoked from the console.)

X supports a wide variety of other startup flags that can be of value for debugging problems or working around issues.  See <code>man xorg</code> for a comprehensive list.  Here's a few particularly useful ones:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| -allowMouseOpenFail
| Allow the server to start up even if the mouse device can't be opened or initialised.
|-
| -ignoreABI
| Bypasses server's ABI version check when loading e.g. binary drivers (-fglrx/-nvidia).  This option should be used with care.
|-
| -keeptty
| Prevent  the server from detaching its initial controlling terminal.  This option is only useful when debugging the server.  Not all platforms support (or can use) this option.
|-
| -showopts
| For each driver module installed, print out the list of options and their argument types.
|}
