{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:desktop-maverick-xorg-in-mm
* '''Created''': 19-05-2010
* '''Contributors''': ChrisHalseRogers
* '''Packages affected''': xorg

=== Summary ===

This specification provides a roadmap for X.org changes in Maverick.

=== Release Note ===

TBD

=== Roadmap ===

<pre>
Maverick target versions for release
------------------------------------
  kernel:      2.6.35
  libdrm:      unspecified
  x-server:    1.9
  mesa:        7.9
  
X.org Goals
-----------
* Build the EGL (OpenGL ES) components of mesa.

ARM hardware commonly only has GLES support, so supporting GLES in mesa is important to help the DX team more easily test Unity.

* Experimental open-source 3D support for nvidia cards

Although upstream does not provide support for the 3D component of nouveau, Fedora is shipping it in a “dri-drivers-experimental” package, and we have been providing testing packages in xorg-edgers during Lucid with largely positive feedback.  While it is the nouveau gallium drivers will be reasonably featureful in the mesa 7.9 release, it is likely that upstream will still not be supporting them.  Installing the nouveau 3D drivers by default will destabilise the default desktop, so these drivers will be provided in a separate package in Universe.

* Support for old Intel i8xx cards

In recent Intel graphics drivers the experience of users with old i8xx chips has suffered serious stability regressions.  As Maverick will have at least xserver-xorg-video-intel version 2.11 there will no longer be support for UMS.  This removes one variable users can tweak to achieve a stable system, and some i8xx cards do not work with KMS at all.  To give a more stable default desktop for these users we shall default these cards to VESA.  For users who wish to try a driver that provides acceleration and better modesetting a fork of an older version of the Intel driver will be packaged in Universe.
</pre>

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

----
CategorySpec
