{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== X Gamer Test ===

This worksheet is intended to test for Xorg issues that inhibit general use of Ubuntu as a gaming platform.

'''Proposed Games to Include''':  [TODO:  What games should be used in this test procedure?  Games included in the test should a) be relatively stable usually, b) exercise X functionality that historically tends to have bugs, c) be easy to install and run, and d) provide a breadth of coverage and not just be dupes of the same functionality tested by other games.]
* Nexus 3D
* Frets on Fire
* Supertux
* Scorched3D
* Torcs
* ppracer

'''Things to Vary''':
* With/Without various DRI options
* With/Without Compiz
* With/Without a synthetic load on the CPU (<code>dd if=/dev/urandom | gzip -c >/dev/null</code>, ctrl-c to stop)
* Color depth
* Windowed vs. full screen modes
* EXA vs. XAA

'''Things to Check''':
* CPU loads
* glxinfo
* Do the given games run with 3D?

[Note that for purposes of this test, we don't care about bugs specific to a given game, but rather Xorg-specific bugs that either a) affect a range of games, or b) cause regressions in the game compared with other Xorg versions or configurations.  Generally this means we care about graphics corruption or performance limitations, 3D support, input and video driver issues, and game crashes specifically due to Xorg changes.]
