{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I have created this short reference about Xara Xtreme after having installed it under Dapper and seing it was broken after upgrading to Edgy. '''Note''': I haven't tested the autopackage under Efty, I believe Xara LX was broken because I had previously installed it  under Dapper and then updated Ubuntu to Edgy.
-- FabiánRodríguez 
=== About Xara Xtreme ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.xaraxtreme.org/|Xara Xtreme]]</nowiki>, formely known as Xara LX, is based on Xara Xtreme for Windows. The Xara Xtreme source code was made available open-source in early 2006, and is being ported to Linux. On August 16, 2006, a 0.7 stable release <nowiki>[[http://www.xaraxtreme.org/news/general_news/news_release_-_11th_august_2006.html|was announced]]</nowiki>, available as a downloadable <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autopackage|autpackage]]</nowiki>

=== Uninstalling and reinstalling Xara Xtreme after updating Ubuntu from Dapper to Edgy Eft (6.10) ===
If you installed Xara Xtreme under Dapper using the downloadable autpackage, you may experience several errors when trying to run it after an update from Dapper to Edgy. As it turns out, Xara LX 0.7r1692 is a standard package in Edgy, in the Multiverse repository. See the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/edgy/+source/xaralx|Launchpad entry]]</nowiki> for more details.

To uninstall Xara Xtreme, simply use the '''package''' command as follows.

{{{
magicfab@roadster:~$ sudo apt-get autoremove xaralx
Removing xaralx ... done}}}

Once uninstalled, you can install the standard package by activating the multiverse repository and doing a standard package install. There are three packages related to Xara LX in multiverse:

* xaralx - Heavyweight vector graphics, illustration and DTP Program
* xaralx-examples - Examples of works created by XaraLx
* xaralx-svg - SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) plugin for XaraLX

'''xaralx-examples''' and '''xaralx-svg''' are only a suggested packages, so they won't install by default. To install all three, the following command has to be issued:

<code>sudo apt-get install xaralx xaralx-examples xaralx-svg</code>

After installing I keep getting one of the warnings I got before:
'''Mailcap file /etc/mailcap, line 105: incomplete entry ignored.'''

I have <nowiki>[[http://www.talkgraphics.com/showthread.php?t=23849|asked in this thread of the Talk Graphics forum]]</nowiki> about that, waiting for news.

Feel free to add any information you may feel would be useful or missing.
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
