{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Xavier RAFFIN, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Xavier RAFFIN
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~xavierraffin
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XavierRaffin
|}

== Who I am ==

I am a Linux developer working for EADS.
I have a master degree in Computer Science and in Mathematics.

My current job is developping test bench softwares for Eurocopter.

I work previously on Debian, and now on RedHat with vanilla kernels with PREEMPT option or Xenomaï.
I know quite well Linux kernel and Linux environment.

I support free software.
I am an '''<nowiki>[[http://www.april.org|APRIL]]</nowiki>''' member ('''<nowiki>[[http://www.april.org|APRIL]]</nowiki>''' is a french organisation which promote free software)

I am currently living in Aix en Provence, in France south east.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I started using Ubuntu with Dapper Drake.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers you cooperated and how it worked out.''
I work in medium size development teams (5 person per modules, 50 for the whole project).
I use svn, Redmine...

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Please describe what you like least in Ubuntu and what thoughts do you have about fixing it.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
