{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xdeltas
* '''Created''':  by Costincar
* '''Contributors''': Costincar
* '''Packages affected''': apt

=== Summary ===
Ubuntu should distribute updates as Xdeltas. SUSE does this, and it is very efficient in terms of bandwidth.

=== Rationale ===
Allowing faster updates for users. Lowering burden on Ubuntu archives.

=== Use cases ===
John has just installed his new Ubuntu Y.MM, after receiving his CDs. Unfortunately, because of the postal services, he receives them about two-three months after the release. He decides to install Ubuntu, and when the system checks for updates, he is horrified that he has to download >100MB of updates, not mentioning the fact that he also requires a lot of non-free content to make his PC fully operational: codecs, drivers.
He:
a) gives up on Ubuntu
b) decides to neglect security and only install the packages he needs, without performing any update

=== Scope ===
Reduce bandwith consumption, both for the users and for the Ubuntu servers and mirrors. Allow for faster updates and better spreading of security fixes.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===
Follow SUSE's implementation. It is in place at least since SUSE 9.3 (the last version I used).

==== Code ====
Not sure, but shouldn't be too much. Most likely a problem of implementation server-wise, and developers getting used to the system.

==== Data preservation and migration ====
The initial migration would be difficult, but very much worth it. The next LTS should definitely implement such an update system.

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
Please see this too: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/APTPackageDeltas/talk
Interesting points of view on the actual implementation.

----
CategorySpec
Wishlist.
