{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu
* '''Created''':  by RobJCaskey
* '''Contributors''': RobJCaskey
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Xubuntu Edubuntu Ubuntu (Xedubuntu) is a version of Ubuntu that brings the lean operating environment of XFCE to the learning ehancements and manageability of Edubuntu.

=== Rationale ===
It's unfair to precondition students to a single operating environment, especially when XFCE offers such a compelling performance advantage.

=== Use cases ===

Xedubuntu aims to cover the the substantial amount of Educational users that don't need the entire Gnome stack.

The following use cases can be considered:

* Students in a school in Alambama where they are upgrading from a woody disk and don't want to download all of the desp for gnome over their dial-up modem.
* Really smart students who are more productive in XFCE instead of Gnome
* Maybe some dumb kids whose teacher doesn't like Gnome, but instead prefers XFCE.

=== Scope ===

The Xedubuntu meta package will include all educational applications that depend on GTK but not on Gnome. It will also install moon buggy.

=== Design ===
Xedubuntu should be intentionally based on XFCE and Xubuntu to provide a low-footprint but still highly usable environment.  Many learning tasks are very memory intensive; the desktop environment will not be used much, and so should be kept out of the way.  Something like Fluxbox would be smaller, but both more of a shock for new users and more packages to maintain.

A minimal XFCE desktop should be installed with another seed.  This can be shared and used by Xubuntu and Xedubuntu.

''Xedubuntu'' should not depend on the XFCE environment if ubuntu-desktop or kubuntu-desktop; these already bring a desktop environment, and installing Xedubuntu on a system including these already would indicate that the user is simply ''adding'' Xedubuntu software rather than creating a Xedubuntu-focused installation.

Xedubuntu should bring a basic text editor, Web browser, and instant messaging client.  These tools are useful for students posting on forums and coordinating remotely over AIM, YIM, MSNIM, or ICQ.  A text editor is a basic must-have. Xedubuntu will include a first-start wizard to manage the default text-editor using the alternatives system. Xedubuntu will conflict with Firefox and require epiphany. The first start wizard will also pop up a message asking the user if they wish to add Ice Weeasle to their sources.list.

=== Implementation ===

Implementation is straight forward.

* Xedubuntu artwork
* Create a Xedubuntu metapackage
* Establish xedubuntu and xedubuntu-devel mailing lists
* Can we get a Xedubuntu wiki?
* logbot needs to join #xedubuntu
* changes to build scripts to build dailys of Xedubuntu, Xedubuntu live and Xedubuntu alternate installs
* coordinate with mubuntu to see if there is enough interest to justify a Xedubuntumuntu.

==== Code ====

None.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

Not applicable here.

=== Outstanding issues ===

None.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* We need like a Xedubuntu art team, it would be ideal if Canonical could sponsor this and contract the project out.
* A number of key programs need to be rewritten to remove Gnome deps.

----
CategorySpec
