{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is happy to announce the release of Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS
(Long-Term Support) for its Desktop and Server products, as well as other
flavours of Ubuntu with long-term support.

Unlike previous point releases, 16.04.6 is a security-targeted release
for the purpose of providing updated installation media which protects
new installations from the recently discovered APT vulnerability 
(USN-3863-1).  Many other security updates for additional high-impact 
bugs are also included, with a focus on maintaining stability and 
compatibility with Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.

Kubuntu 16.04.6 LTS, Xubuntu 16.04.6 LTS, Mythbuntu 16.04.6 LTS,
Lubuntu 16.04.6 LTS, Ubuntu Kylin 16.04.6 LTS and Ubuntu MATE 16.04.6
LTS are also now available. More details can be found in their
individual release notes:

    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes#Official_flavours

Users of Ubuntu on clouds are recommended to launch new instances using
the latest images from the 16.04 release stream, which include the fix
in APT for USN-3863-1.

Maintenance updates are provided for 5 years for Ubuntu Desktop,
Ubuntu Server, Ubuntu Cloud, Ubuntu Base, and Ubuntu Kylin.  All the 
remaining flavours are supported for 3 years.

To get Ubuntu 16.04.6
---------------------

In order to download Ubuntu 16.04.6, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 14.04 will be offered an automatic upgrade to
16.04.6 via Update Manager.  For further information about upgrading,
see:

    https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XenialUpgrades

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the 16.04.6 release notes, which
document caveats and workarounds for known issues, as well as more
in-depth notes on the release itself.  They are available at:

    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

### ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
    http://www.ubuntuforums.org
    http://askubuntu.com

Help Shape Ubuntu
-----------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
clouds and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases.  A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is
included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few
clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website
listed below:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

On behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team,
</pre>
