{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #ffccaa; font-size: 0.90em;":> '''Important Note:''' Please '''DO NOT''' Download any version of Ubuntu GNOME without READING '''the Release Notes - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/reading-the-release-notes-is-a-must-do-step/ | here is why]]</nowiki> - especially the Known Issues'''. Thank you!
|}
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

Read this Site in your Language:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Japanese| 日本語]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/spanish | Español]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME/Korean | 한국어]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Ubuntu GNOME 16.04.5 LTS ==
'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME | Ubuntu GNOME]]</nowiki>''' is an official flavor of Ubuntu, featuring the '''<nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/ | GNOME]]</nowiki>''' desktop environment. Ubuntu GNOME is a mostly pure GNOME desktop experience built from the Ubuntu repositories. This version is based on the '''GNOME 3.18''' release - why not GNOME 3.20? please visit the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuGNOME#See_Also | See Also]]</nowiki> section for more details.

== Minimum System Requirements ==

* 1 GHz processor (for example Intel Celeron) or better.

* 1.5 GB RAM (system memory).

* 10 GB of free hard drive space for installation.

* Either a CD/DVD drive or a USB port for the installer media.

* Internet access is helpful (for installing updates during the installation process).

If you have an old machine, you may consider other alternatives like '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu | Lubuntu]]</nowiki>''' or '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu | Xubuntu]]</nowiki>'''.

== Features of Ubuntu GNOME 16.04.5 LTS ==
 
* GNOME  3.18
* Fixes to Language pack installation (gnome-control-center) and ibus support
* GNOME Software has replaced Ubuntu Software Center
* GNOME Calendar and GNOME Logs are installed by default
* GNOME Builder (IDE) is now available in the archives
* Support for installing Snappy packages.
* If you want try the GNOME Classic session on the live CD, set a user password before logging out.
* Root-less Xorg is now available, if you are using FOSS KMS drivers you can enable it by removing "xserver-xorg-legacy" package.
* Experimental wayland session is now available. Install <code>gnome-session-wayland</code> and then select "GNOME on wayland" from login screen '''''(Only works with OSS GPU drivers)'''''.

== Applications in Ubuntu GNOME 16.04.5 LTS ==

* '''GNOME Shell'''. The GNOME desktop environment from where you can search and start applications, switch between windows, etc.

* '''Nautilus''' (File Manager). An easy to use file manager for organizing your documents, music, pictures, videos and files in general.

* '''Firefox Web Browser'''. Browse the web with one of the most popular fast, flexible and secure web browsers.

* '''LibreOffice'''. Create professional documents, spreadsheets, presentations and even more with the open-source office suite.

* '''gedit''' (Text Editor). A small and lightweight text editor for the GNOME desktop environment.

* '''GNOME Software'''. Lets you browse and install thousands of free and paid applications available for '''Ubuntu'''. 

* '''Tweak Tool'''. Change advanced settings – appearance, fonts, keyboard and mouse, windows and workspaces. Install extensions, set power options, select startup applications.

== Get Ubuntu GNOME 16.04.5 LTS ==
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GetUbuntuGNOME | DOWNLOAD]]</nowiki> Ubuntu GNOME 16.04.5 LTS (Xenial Xerus).

=== Upgrading from last release ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%; margin: 5px 0;" style="border: none; border-radius: 10px; background-color: #ffccaa; font-size: 0.90em;" :>'''<nowiki>[[http://ubuntugnome.org/to-upgrade-or-not-to-upgrade/ | To Upgrade Or Not To Upgrade?]]</nowiki>'''
|}
<<BR>>
Before upgrading, it is highly recommended to back up your data. See <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem | this page]]</nowiki> for tutorials on how to backup your data. Or just download '''<nowiki>[[http://clonezilla.org/downloads.php | Clonezilla]]</nowiki>''' and create an image of your hard drive or system partition.

The included GUI update manager will offer you the latest release of '''Ubuntu GNOME'''. Which can also be accessed via Terminal:

<pre>
update-manager -c
</pre>

Alternatively, launch '''Terminal''' by hitting Ctrl+Alt+T and run the following command:

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

'''Note'''. If you were using the '''gnome3-team/gnome3-staging''' PPA, you should run
<pre>
sudo ppa-purge ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3-staging
sudo ppa-purge ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-gnome-desktop^
</pre>
before upgrading.

* More information about '''Upgrading''' can <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/110477/how-do-i-upgrade-to-a-newer-version-of-ubuntu | be found here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

* Upgrades from 14.04 may fail, make sure to backup first before trying (Bug:1555237)
* The prompt asking for media removal is not shown at the end of the installation (Bug:966480)

== Ubuntu Release Notes ==

* For common issues with '''Ubuntu''', please refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes | Ubuntu release notes]]</nowiki>. 

== Support ==

* Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 LTS is supported for 3 years, until April 2019.

== Contact Us ==

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Contact Us]]</nowiki>
