{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the release of Ubuntu 16.04.1 LTS
(Long-Term Support) for its Desktop, Server, and Cloud products,
as well as other flavours of Ubuntu with long-term support.

As usual, this point release includes many updates, and updated
installation media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to
be downloaded after installation.  These include security updates and
corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining
stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.

Kubuntu 16.04.1 LTS, Edubuntu 16.04.1 LTS, Xubuntu 16.04.1 LTS,
Mythbuntu 16.04.1 LTS, Ubuntu GNOME 16.04.1 LTS, Lubuntu 16.04.1 LTS,
Ubuntu Kylin 16.04.1 LTS, and Ubuntu Studio 16.04.1 LTS are also now
available. More details can be found in their individual release notes:

    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes#Official_flavours

Maintenance updates will be provided for 5 years for Ubuntu Desktop,
Ubuntu Server, Ubuntu Cloud, Ubuntu Base, Ubuntu Kylin, Edubuntu, and
Kubuntu.  All the remaining flavours will be supported for 3 years.

To get Ubuntu 16.04.1
---------------------

In order to download Ubuntu 16.04.1, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 14.04 will soon be offered an automatic upgrade to
16.04.1 via Update Manager.  For further information about upgrading,
see:

    https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XenialUpgrades

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the 16.04.1 release notes, which
document caveats and workarounds for known issues, as well as more
in-depth notes on the release itself.  They are available at:

    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

### ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
    http://www.ubuntuforums.org
    http://askubuntu.com

Help Shape Ubuntu
-----------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
clouds and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases.  A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is
included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few
clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website
listed below:

    http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

    http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
