{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is Ubuntu Kylin ? ==

The objective of the Ubuntu Kylin project is to create a variant of Ubuntu that is more suitable for Chinese users. We are committed to provide you with a delicate, thoughtful and fully customized Chinese user experience out-of-the-box. For instance, by providing a desktop user interface localized in Chinese and installing common software that Chinese users commonly use by default. Ubuntu Kylin has been a formal member of the Ubuntu family, since <nowiki>[[UbuntuKylin | Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> 13.04. Now, we are working on 16.04.

== What's new in Ubuntu Kylin 16.04 Beta 2 ==

We are glad to announce the Release of Ubuntu Kylin 16.04 (codename XenialXerus) Beta 2. In this pre-release, we have fixed many internationalization and localization bugs in Ubuntu itself and bugs in software written by the Ubuntu Kylin team. All the work that Ubuntu Kylin team do is within the Ubuntu community and ecosystem and as such they are flowed back to Ubuntu itself naturally and everyone using Ubuntu can benefit the result of our work.

'''Note:''' this is an beta pre-release, which is not suitable for normal users, but for Ubuntu Kylin developers and users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and fixing bugs.

=== Changes since 15.10 ===

Besides a plethora of bugs fixed in this milestone, several Ubuntu Kylin specific packages have also been updated:

* ubuntukylin-theme updated to 1.5.2
** change the unity-greeter's logo for Ubuntu Kylin 16.04 (LP: #1536497)
** change the Plymouth text for Ubuntu Kylin 16.04 (LP: #1536496)
** change depends:use fonts-droid-fallback instead of fonts-droid (LP: #1546847)
** new icons-theme for ubutnukylin 16.04
** add launcher icon-background in theme
** change plymouth-theme
** add kylin-greeter background for 16.04
** fix gtk theme bug:
*** Fix progressbar color error (LP: #1558890)
*** Fix scrollbar style for 16.04
*** Basic app-notification theming to avoid weirdness in nautilus
*** Adds padding to sidebar icons to fix bug (LP: #1538997)

* ubuntukylin-default-settings updated to 1.3.14
** change the Version Number for UK16.04 in the page of "About This Computer (LP: #1530332 )
** open remote search for dash
** set the Unity Launcher to the bottom of the screen

* ubuntu-kylin-software-center, updated to 1.3.7
** can't start uksc without giving password at uksc first time start when update "source.list". ( LP: #1535550 )
** no update progress when first time start uksc and update the "source.list".( LP: #1535548 )

* youker-assistant, updated to 2.0.6
** Deal with org.gnome.settings-daemon.peripherals.touchpad.
** Replace psutil.get_process_list with psutil.process_iter.
** Optimized scan display interface.
** Remove processmanager.

* indicator-china-weather, updated to 2.1.4
** Rewrite UI with css.

Add a new package to provide a new login interface :
* kylin-greeter 
** a lightdm greeter for kylin sytle base on unity-greeter

Add a new lockscreen for unity7, and use it in the Ubuntu Kylin default

Move the Uinty Launcher and Dash to the bottom of the screen 

== Support ==

* Website: http://www.ubuntukylin.com
* Project page: http://www.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* Bug tracker: http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntukylin
* IRC channel: <nowiki>[[https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntukylin-devel|irc.freenode.net #ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Mailing list: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntukylin-devel | ubuntukylin-devel]]</nowiki>
* Chinese QQ Group: 
** Developers: 125729037
** Users 1: 262012757
** Users 2: 306929327
** Users 3: 75642661
** Users 4: 398104181
** Users 5: 8010855 
* Weibo: http://weibo.com/u/3265288504
* Wechat: UK201304
* Business Email: contact@ubuntukylin.com

== Download ==

The Beta 2 ISO can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntukylin/releases/xenial/beta-2/ | here]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

Below is the list of prominent bugs that are existing in Beta 2:
* The CandidateView of Chinese input method obscured by the Dash page.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1465512|1465512]]</nowiki>)
* "Desktop" is not localized in live mode.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1306866|1306866]]</nowiki>)
* Plymouth does not display the graphical boot splash.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1370707|1370707]]</nowiki>)
* The slideshow needs to be updated for UK16.04.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1538925|1538925]]</nowiki>)
* The default wallpaper needs to be updated for UK16.04.(LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1538929|1538929]]</nowiki>)
* The prompt box for source update still appeared after the software sources update operation has been performed. (LP: #<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1538153|1538153]]</nowiki>)

For issues related to Ubuntu itself, please refer to the Ubuntu project at Launchpad.

== Thanks ==
Thanks to everyone involving in the development of Ubuntu Kylin, the success of Ubuntu Kylin 16.04 would the result of our joint efforts.
If you want to be a contributor of Ubuntu Kylin,see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuKylin/NewContributorGuide and https://developer.ubuntukylin.com.
