{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

We’re preparing Lubuntu 16.04, Xenial Xerus, for distribution in April 2016. 16.04 will be an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS | LTS]]</nowiki>. As 16.04 is an LTS, the focus is on looking out for and fixing bugs. 

'''NOTE:''' This is an alpha pre-release. 
Lubuntu Pre-releases are NOT recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Lubuntu Pre-releases ARE recommended for:
* Users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs. You can find more about helping to test and bug hunt at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing| lubuntu testing]]</nowiki>.
* Lubuntu developers

=== Getting Lubuntu 16.04 Alpha 1 ===

The full listing of available images is <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/xenial/alpha-1/ | here]]</nowiki>. You must <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|check]]</nowiki> both the download and then the install media on 1st boot before attempting an install. Instructions for burning the image to a CD / DVD or copying to a USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

==== Upgrading from Previous Versions ====
To upgrade to Lubuntu 16.04 from previous 14.04 or 15.10 releases, follow the <nowiki>[[ http:--manpages.ubuntu.com-manpages-wily-man8-do-release-upgrade.8.html|Upgrade Instructions]]</nowiki>.

=== Alpha 1 Highlights ===

* LXQt is still in development, as such Xenial Xerus is GTK based.
* The Alpha 1 Xenial Xerus snapshot includes the v4.3 kernel which 16.04 will ship with.
----
== Known Problems ==

=== Family Shared Applications ===
This is our known list of bugs that affect all flavours and also any applications that lubuntu uses but relies on others to maintain.

* The input box for editing a Wired connection static IP address doesn't appear correctly (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lubuntu-default-settings/+bug/1530323|1530323]]</nowiki>).
* Software properties gtk implies my cpu is unknown and not working. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/+bug/1444682|1444682]]</nowiki>).
* gnome-disk-utilty does not allow swapoff of zram devices (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/1458383|1458383]]</nowiki>).
* Abiword language selector text cut off in abiword (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/abiword/+bug/1484785 | 1484785]]</nowiki>).
* gnumeric menu ->help ->about gnumeric -> license button, does not work. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnumeric/+bug/1516454 | 1516454]]</nowiki>).
* Shutdown/Restart of live session guest does not work in Virtualbox, KVM or VMWare (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1447038 | 1447038]]</nowiki>).
* Prompt for entering password for encrypted system not displayed at boot time (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1530548|1530548]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists).
* Plymouth does not display the graphical boot splash (<nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/1370707|1370707]]</nowiki>).

=== LXDE ===
This is our known list of bugs that affect lubuntu and are maintained by us.

* lxpanel volume applet settings opens empty terminal window (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1434774|1434774]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists).
* run dialog called from one desktop opens on the desktop with preferences dialog, regardless of which desktop is current (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1445818|1445818]]</nowiki>).
* Lubuntu Software Centre only lists installed applications when lubuntu installed via alternate image (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-software-center/+bug/1467517|1467517]]</nowiki> Workaround Exists).
* changing multiple desktop names only results in the first being changed. (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obconf/+bug/1522625 | 1522625]]</nowiki>).

=== Lubuntu Desktop Installer ===

==== All Desktop images now require a DVD or USB. ====
* Ubiquity slideshow shows "Lubuntu 15.10" on 16.04 daily images (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-artwork/+bug/1530383 | 1530383]]</nowiki>).

=== Lubuntu Alternate Installer ===
==== Lubuntu maintains a CD sized image in this alternate image. ====
No reported bugs that exclusively affect the alternate release
=== PowerPC ===
PowerPC is only supported on Lubuntu LTS releases.

At this time there are no reported bugs that exclusively affect the PPC release.

Do check with the <nowiki>[[PowerPCFAQ]]</nowiki> for known issues that are PPC specific.

== Feedback ==

Development of Lubuntu 16.04, the Xenial Xerus, is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day. Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date. For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/daily-live/current/|Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

Please feel free to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs|contact us]]</nowiki> with feedback.
