{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 16.04 Xenial Xerus ==

Please see <nowiki>[[XenialXerus-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Please see <nowiki>[[XenialXerus-ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-16.04.1]]</nowiki> for the 16.04.1 change summary.

Please see <nowiki>[[XenialXerus-ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-16.04.2]]</nowiki> for the 16.04.2 change summary.

Please see <nowiki>[[XenialXerus-ReleaseNotes-ChangeSummary-16.04.3]]</nowiki> for the 16.04.3 change summary.

== Getting Ubuntu Studio Xenial Xerus (16.04) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.04/release/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/16.04/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Changes for this LTS release (compared to previous LTS) ==
 
* Adoption of the whisker menu
* Desktop setup is more closely synced with '''Xubuntu''' in this release which results in a change in many of the preinstalled packages in our desktop meta.
* New font: Droid has been replaced by Noto.
* The categorization in the menu has changed from 5 categories down to 3 - '''audio''', '''graphics''' and '''video'''. '''Photography''' is now available as a subcategory under '''graphics'''.
* The application '''ubuntustudio-controls''' is now functional and able to administer realtime privilege for users.
* Ubuntu has followed Debian in moving from '''libav''' back to '''ffmpeg'''.
* Special notice for '''ardour''' - there is now only one '''ardour''' in the archive now, and it is version 4. The package '''ardour3''' only exists as a transitional package and depends on '''ardour'''.
* New selection of desktop backgrounds made by the winners of the community wallpaper-contest.

=== Changes in multimedia package selection since 14.04 Trusty ===

* New meta packages '''ubuntustudio-audio-core''' and '''ubuntustudio-desktop-core'''
* Added '''petri-foo''' and '''x42-plugins'''
* Removed '''lv2fil'''

=== Changes in multimedia package selection since 15.10 Wily and 14.04 Trusty ===

* '''ubuntustudio-font-meta''' renamed to '''ubuntustudio-fonts'''
* Added '''jack-tools''' and '''kid3-qt'''
* Single '''pd''' packages have been replaced by '''multimedia-puredata''' which depends on lots of '''pd''' packages
* '''dvdstyler''' replaced with '''devede'''

== Known Problems ==

* '''recordmydesktop''' output is corrupt - video glitching out (Bug:1531852)
* First entry of the boot-menu "Try UbuntuStudio without installing" does not get translated into the chosen language (Bug:1550186)
* '''parole''' crashing with SIGSEGV in cogl_matrix_entry_ref() (Bug:1550198)
* '''ImageMagick''' Entries not working in whiskers menu (Bug:1550210)
* '''Scribus''' defaults to 10.15 Saturday Night BRK Regular font (Bug:1550216)
* '''Phatch''' freezing when starting and crashing when dropping an image on the window (Bug:1527314)

== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Xenial Xerus (16.04) is a Long Term Support (LTS) release and will be supported for 3 years.

== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
