{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

We are preparing Ubuntu GNOME Xenial Xerus (16.04) LTS for distribution in  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule | April 21st, 2016]]</nowiki>. With this '''Beta 1''' pre-release, you can see what we are trying out in preparation for our next (LTS) version. We have some interesting things happening, so read on for highlights, known issues and other information. 

'''NOTE:''' 

This is Beta 1 Release. 
Ubuntu GNOME '''Beta Releases''' are '''NOT''' recommended for:
* Regular users who are not aware of pre-release issues
* Anyone who needs a stable system
* Anyone uncomfortable running a possibly frequently broken system
* Anyone in a production environment with data or workflows that need to be reliable

Ubuntu GNOME Beta Releases are recommended for:
* Regular users who want to help us test by finding, reporting, and/or fixing bugs
* Ubuntu GNOME developers

For those who don't know the general difference between '''Alpha''' and '''Beta''':
* With Alpha releases, we don't introduce many new features. The system that you are testing on the Alpha stage is under heavy development, however there is a a great chance you will not notice anything just yet.
* It is very common to see - for example - the slide show of the installer states you are installing 15.04 not 15.10. That's not a real bug when it is Alpha. It would be a bug if we are at Beta.
* You usually start to see some visible differences with Beta but not Alpha.

== Getting Ubuntu GNOME Xenial Xerus (16.04) Beta 1 ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.04/beta-1/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your pre-release is as it’s supposed to be. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/releases/16.04/beta-1/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

== Beta 1 Highlights ==
=== Software Updates ===

* GNOME Shell 3.18
* Most of GNOME 3.18
* GNOME Software has replaced Ubuntu Software Center
* GNOME Calendar and GNOME Logs are installed by default
* GNOME Builder (IDE) is now available in the archives
* gnome-control-center sharing panel has been fixed

* Experimental wayland session is now available. Install <code>gnome-session-wayland</code> and then select "GNOME on wayland" from login screen '''''(Only works with OSS GPU drivers)'''''.

== Known Problems ==

* The prompt asking for media removal is not shown at the end of the installation (Bug:966480)
* Shutdown/Restart of live session guest does not work in Virtualbox, and VMWare (Bug:1447038)
* No auto login in Ubuntu GNOME Xenial (Bug:1547297)
* Ubuntu installer says: The creation of swap space in partition failed (Bug:990744)
* Ubuntu GNOME Xenial live image boots to tty1 (Bug:1548864)
* It only shows installed apps, not available ones (Bug:1548933)

== Feedback ==

Development of Ubuntu GNOME '''Xenial Xerus (16.04)''' is ongoing and bugs are fixed every day.  Before reporting bugs, please ensure your system is up to date and you're installing the '''latest build'''.  For verifying installation related bugs, updated disk images are available from <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-gnome/daily-live/current/ | Daily bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>.

=== Testing Ubuntu GNOME ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/Testing | More Information about Testing Ubuntu GNOME is here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact Us ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/ContactUs | Ubuntu GNOME Official Channels are here]]</nowiki>
