{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xinerama-support
* '''Created''': 2005-10-21 by TollefFogHeen
* '''Contributors''': TollefFogHeen
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Currently, we have a fair number of applications which don't behave very well in a multi-head environment. Xinerama is the X protocol extension which lets applications know that there are multiple physical displays attached and make sure to put up windows which doesn't span multiple physical displays and similar problems.

=== Rationale ===

Having windows which span multiple displays (unless placed there by the user) is ugly, unreadable and hard to work with.  It also looks weird when one part of the system knows that the user has multiple displays (like, gnome-panel), while other seem oblivious to it and those interact.

=== Use cases ===

* Lucy has a computer with two monitors.  She wants applications to look consistent and be usable generally without moving windows around to be able to read dialog boxes and other textual information.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
