{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/xopher/|xopher]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| ''xopher''
|-
| '''Email''':
| &#107;&#97;&#114;&#118;&#111;&#110;&#101;&#110;&#64;&#103;&#109;&#97;&#105;&#108;&#46;&#99;&#111;&#109;
|}

== About Me ==
Hello! I'm Christoffer Karvonen. I have been using Linux for about 4 years now, and ubuntu since the 5.04 (Hoary Hedgedog) release. I really like Linux and would never go back to [ ''not going to say it'' ].

My main interests in Ubuntu are related to eye-candy and usability. I like giving something back by supporting people with problems, doing some documentation, packaging software. This far the community has worked really well for me, I've got support when I've been in need of it, and I have been able to help others too. :)

Geographically I'm located in Finland. My other hobbies are Thai-Boxing, running and slalom.

== Contributions ==
Here a list of some of my contributions.

=== Documentation ===
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BuildYourOwnNvidiaGlx|BuildYourOwnNvidiaGlx]]</nowiki> - I wrote this because I like to have the latest drivers, without having to install them with the installer NVIDIA offers. The debi..*cough* ubuntu way is much cleaner.

=== Packaging ===
I am currently maintaining the ubuntu package for bmpx, on an unofficial repository, but I'm trying hard to get it into ubuntu. Currently it is uploaded to revu: http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=3460

nspluginwrapper 0.9.90.4 http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1792581#post1792581

=== Artwork ===
* <nowiki>[[http://gnome-look.org/usermanager/search.php?username=xopher|My Gnome-look.org profile]]</nowiki> I've done several Ubuntu-related splash images for GRUB, some of which I'm really proud of. 

=== Support ===
I've been quite active in the IRC channels for a pretty long time, helping people with their problems. For ubuntu-related support I've done the most in #ubuntu-xgl and #beryl, but try to do as much as I can elsewhere too. Recently I've activated myself in launchpad too, and I'll probably keep at it, it's a lot of fun ;)

Here's a list of what I've done so far: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/xopher/+tickets]]</nowiki>

== Future Plans ==
 
* Debug and improve applications provided by Ubuntu.
* Continue with supporting people in IRC, the forums and Launchpad.
* Improve the existing documentation.
* Become a MOTU.

== Related Wikipages ==

<<FullSearch>>
----
CategoryHomepage
