{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Seyeong Kim, apply for SRU Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Seyeong Kim
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~xtrusia
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/xtrusia
|}

== Who I am ==

I started Linux officially in 2001 with debian distribution, before that time, I just was an user on debian as a student, After joining university, I used Linux as project base operating system and my home desktop. After graduated, I developed cloud service based on Linux server and client several years in my own company before canonical.

== My Ubuntu story ==

When I was in university and before canonical, I used Ubuntu for desktop and server system. I joined Canonical in 2014 as part of the Support and Technical Services Engineering team. and I've been working on issue various area such as virtualization, openstack, userland server and few kernel issue.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

'''SRU'''

* http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Seyeong%20Kim
* https://launchpad.net/~xtrusia/+uploaded-packages

'''Kernel'''

* http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1461730
* http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1521053
* http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1660519

'''Upstream'''

* '''Libreoffice''' https://gerrit.libreoffice.org/#/c/11829/
* '''eventlet''' https://github.com/eventlet/eventlet/commit/ed0655333007fe97624b745e92deb407d192022c

=== Areas of work ===
I worked on various area in Ubuntu such as userland application, server, openstack component, juju, charms and a few of kernels.

=== Things I could do better ===
Joining and communicating with loco ubuntu team to share my contributions

== Plans for the future ==
Nowadays I'm studying ceph code for contributing it.
and Keep contributing Ubuntu as well

=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu is easiest in linux world but still difficult to normal person for using it as Desktop

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

It has been 2 years since I have started working with him. There are so many cases he has involved and solved. His troubleshooting skill, which is based on his enthusiasm to help end users and comes with problem reproduction ability and very careful code/fix review. It would be very beneficial for us to have him as a SRU Developper. `@``SIG``@` <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:to-hiro]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>

I worked with Seyeong for over many years, and he's consistently been a smart, broad, and hardworking contributor. He's always responsive, and delivers everything he commits to. His work on creating the sru-uploaders group is great, and will help many on our team both gain Ubuntu recognition and assist with our jobs! -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mimi0213kimo]]</nowiki> 
I've been working with seyeongkim for more than 4 years, he is a talent, smart guy with the broad technology domain and the strong SRU working experience. I will never forget when I had some questions and he guided me through all the detailed SRU process, I really appreciate his effort -:) I can think of no better one to bring SRU to broader benefit in the team, he will benefit us all by becoming a SRU Developper. -- --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:zhhuabj]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
