{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 09 Sep at 10:00 &mdash; 10:38 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-09-09-10.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 10:02.

* '''Review artwork for UIF''' (10:03)

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 10:09.

** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster and knome will work on docs for pkexec
** ''ACTION:'' marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 10:13.

** elfy set up a discussion page for QA incentives http://pad.ubuntu.com/QAIncentive
** Beta Test results: 32 bit 7 testers (3 from team)/64 bit 5 testers (4 from team), 32 bit 19 tests run/64 bit 17 tests run
** the "Network printing" section of the documentation is updated
** the "Scanning" section of the documentation is updated
** xubuntu-default-settings discussed with team, agreed upon (and not changing any further)

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 10:21.

** UI Freeze is Thursday, afterwards exception paperwork will need to be filed for any other UI changes https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserInterfaceFreeze
** We are still seeking translators for the documentation and packages
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-September/010396.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-September/010404.html 

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:25.

* '''Default configuration''' (10:25)
* '''QA Incentives''' (10:27)
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/QAIncentive 
** ''ACTION:'' team to further discuss the QA Incentive program

==== Schedule Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule Next Meeting" started at 10:37.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* team
** marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media
** team to further discuss the QA Incentive program

=== Done items ===

* slickymaster and knome will work on docs for pkexec

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (51)
* ochosi (43)
* slickymasterWork (13)
* meetingology (13)
* knome (2)
* lderan (2)
* team (0)
