{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 30 Jan at 15:00 &mdash; 16:08 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-01-30-15.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 15:02.

** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to mail list to kick off discussion about default office applications
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to mail list about removing games from default install
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to mail list re user poll

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 15:05.

** knome worked on the website refresh
** QA has seen a new name floating about on tracker post- QA incentive blog
** not a great deal of testing reported though
** knome and slickymaster started working on the installer slideshow update
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-1504-slideshow 

==== announcements ====
The discussion about "announcements" started at 15:20.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 15:26.

* '''Discuss participating in the weekly Community Q&A sessions''' (15:26)
** ''LINK:'' http://ubuntuonair.com/calendar/ 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send an email about community Q&A participation
* '''Finalise User identifies as poll options''' (15:35)
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-user-identifies-as 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to schedule a meeting for poll improving
* '''Discuss games in default install following m/l thread''' (15:51)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to mail list (TEAM) for suggestions on new games for the default
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send an email about ISO size target(s)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to set up next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to set up next meeting
* elfy
** elfy to mail list (TEAM) for suggestions on new games for the default
* knome
** knome to send an email about community Q&A participation
** knome to schedule a meeting for poll improving
** knome to send an email about ISO size target(s)

=== Done items ===

* pleia2 to mail list to kick off discussion about default office applications
* elfy to mail list about removing games from default install
* elfy to mail list re user poll

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (199)
* elfy (95)
* ochosi (86)
* slickymasterWork (47)
* meetingology (11)
* bluesabre (3)
* ganglere (1)
* ubottu (1)
* vforberger (1)
* baffledbear (1)
