{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 07 Nov at 15:00 &mdash; 15:38 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-11-07-15.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 15:00.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (15:00)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk to barry about python2.7/3 situation
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to upload whiskermenu to xfce PPAs
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi announces the community wallpapers project on the mailing list
** ''ACTION:'' (convert to work item) team to investigate patching xfce4-power-manager or finding alternatives
* '''Strategy Document reviewing''' (15:03)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2013-November/009413.html 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send email about progressing with the SD review; we will need to approve current changes at some point; we can get back to revieweing the technicalities later
** ''LINK:'' http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~knome/+junk/xubuntu-strategy-document-rewrite-1311/view/head:/strategy-document 

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 15:13.

** 12.04 docs SRU is getting sponsored
** The documentation SRU for 12.04 was sponsored by Sebastien Bacher and is working its way through the various queues

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 15:15.

** Ubuntu Developer Summit will run November 19-21
** Agenda at http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1311/
** RELEASE TEAM needs to attend this vUDS-1311 panel if at all possible: http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-1311/meeting/22041/core-1311-release/
** ''ACTION:'' team members to go through the UDS schedule and schedule their schedule to be able to make the sessions per the schedule

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 15:20.

* '''Schedule next meeting''' (15:22)
** Next Xubuntu community meeting on November 14, 16UTC (note the one-hour later time, we are now all non-DST)

=== Action items, by person ===
* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome to send email about progressing with the SD review; we will need to approve current changes at some point; we can get back to revieweing the technicalities later
* micahg
** micahg to talk to barry about python2.7/3 situation
** micahg to upload whiskermenu to xfce PPAs
* ochosi
** ochosi announces the community wallpapers project on the mailing list
* team
** (convert to work item) team to investigate patching xfce4-power-manager or finding alternatives
** team members to go through the UDS schedule and schedule their schedule to be able to make the sessions per the schedule

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (67)
* skellat (16)
* meetingology (11)
* GridCube (8)
* ochosi (0)
* micahg (0)
* team (0)
