{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by knome at 17:03:05 UTC. Meeting ended at 17:45:46 UTC. The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-12-29-17.03.moin.txt.

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Ongoing business ====
* Xubuntu LTS plan
** Plan draft prepared by micahg is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/LTSCyclePlan  (knome, 17:03:31)
** LTS plan accepted  (knome, 17:05:31)
** ''ACTION:'' knome (with the help of micahg, if needed) to forward the Xubuntu LTS plan to Technical Board  (knome, 17:06:35)
* Meeting times
** Next meeting will be held at January 9, 2012 at 17UTC.  (knome, 17:07:11)
** Following meetings will be scheduled for Wednesdays and/or Thursdays if at all possible.  (knome, 17:07:42)
** Meetings will take place once per two weeks; more often if needed and shortly before release  (knome, 17:09:05)

==== Team updates ====
* Packaging, Development  (knome, 17:17:01)
** mr_pouit has been uploading newer versions of xfce components in Debian  (micahg, 17:19:33)
** we should get them synced over next week  (micahg, 17:19:56)
** amd64 live ISO is oversized. if it's a problem, ping micahg  (knome, 17:22:25)
** Can be fixed by dropping a language for example  (knome, 17:22:49)
** PAE kernel is the default in precise now  (micahg, 17:23:41)
** to change to PAE on vbox read here: http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch03.html#settings-processor  (GridCube, 17:26:30)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu  (knome, 17:27:20)
* Bug Triage, Testing  (knome, 17:29:35)
** not much testings lately, we should get into more tests soon, we are getting behind  (GridCube, 17:30:39)
** ''ACTION:'' charlie-tca to write a blog post about testing after holiday season  (knome, 17:32:24)
** ''ACTION:'' GridCube to gather a list of problems with QA tracker and get back to knome/QA tracker responsibles  (knome, 17:36:30)
* Marketing, Artwork  (knome, 17:09:30)
** Greybird's gtk3 is stable and practically ready for release  (ochosi, 17:09:57)
** Feedback and testing is much appreciated  (ochosi, 17:10:11)
** Porting of Bluebird is proceeding, but rather slowly  (ochosi, 17:10:32)
** For testing use the download-function of our github-repository (https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird/downloads) and extract the tarball to ~/.themes then change the gtk-theme to "Greybird"  (ochosi, 17:12:20)
** Website is nearly ready, theme is going to get a few improvements and the content still needs more reviewing - ask pleia2 for more information  (knome, 17:13:01)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise as soon as possible  (knome, 17:14:27)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to update the marketing wikipage with new sticker design  (knome, 17:16:03)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to look at the thunderbird button issue  (knome, 17:16:30)

==== Other business ====
* Review blueprints that need community approval
** New wallpaper (knome)  (knome, 17:38:09)
** Some drafts are at http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/precise_wall/  (knome, 17:38:27)
** Feedback and ideas are welcome, PM knome or send email  (knome, 17:38:50)
** Will get back to this thing later  (knome, 17:39:09)
** Ubiquity "application sets"  (knome, 17:39:18)
** Specification at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/UbiquityApplicationSets  (knome, 17:39:34)
** If you know accessibility packages well, please list them at the wikipage so we know what we should install with the accessibility set but not with the others  (knome, 17:40:18)
** Voting for the specification in the next meeting  (knome, 17:40:41)
** Default shortcut keys (Sysi)  (knome, 17:40:57)
** Specification at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/DefaultShortcutKeys. Please add comments to the comments section.  (knome, 17:41:41)
** Will get back to this item later  (knome, 17:41:49)
** Clean themes list (knome)  (knome, 17:41:59)
** Specification at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/CleanThemes  (knome, 17:42:11)
** Please add comments to the comments section.  (knome, 17:42:46)
** Voting and more discussion about single themes in the next meeting  (knome, 17:43:21)
* Discussion and guidance on any other blueprints
** Default media player -blueprint is postponed to P+1  (knome, 17:43:53)
* Any other business  (knome, 17:45:24)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to update the meetings wikipage with the minutes ASAP  (knome, 17:45:43)

=== Action items, by person ===
* GridCube
** GridCube to gather a list of problems with QA tracker and get back to knome/QA tracker responsibles
* knome
** knome (with the help of micahg, if needed) to forward the Xubuntu LTS plan to Technical Board
** knome to update the meetings wikipage with the minutes ASAP
* micahg
** micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise as soon as possible
** micahg to look at the thunderbird button issue
* ochosi
** ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu
* pleia2
** pleia2 to update the marketing wikipage with new sticker design

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (103)
* ochosi (30)
* GridCube (23)
* micahg (22)
* meetingology (21)
* pleia2 (6)
* astraljava (1)
