{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Meeting information ====
* Xubuntu community meeting, 2012-06-13
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2012/xubuntu-devel.2012-06-13-15.00.moin.txt]]</nowiki>

==== Meeting summary ====

===== Items carried on =====
* Open action items from previous meeting  (knome, 15:01:03)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 and knome to work on marketing products  (knome, 15:01:26)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to raise publicity on triaging, testing and docs  (knome, 15:01:40)

===== Team updates =====
** Development  (knome, 15:02:27)
** Some work done to get Xfce 4.10 in Quantal  (knome, 15:02:55)
** Quality Assurance  (knome, 15:03:05)
** Some work was done recently to enhance the testing docs, I will dig up the link to those in a minute. The testcases were sanitized, and should now be easier to follow was non-regulars as well.  (astraljava, 15:04:21)
** Since Xubuntu did not do an Alpha-1, we haven't used the new tracker much, yet. We should pick up on that now, though.  (astraljava, 15:05:08)
** https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-testers is now an *open* team, no need to add your information on the wiki anymore.  (knome, 15:06:04)
** There's an upcoming QA meeting this Sunday, I will post info about it on the mailing lists after this meeting.  (astraljava, 15:06:04)
** ''ACTION:'' astraljava to send information on the Xubuntu QA meeting  (knome, 15:06:23)
** The testers should try to make the QA meeting on Sunday to organize  (knome, 15:07:12)
** Marketing, Promotion and Artwork  (knome, 15:07:21)
** Some improvements done for Greybird, more information later  (knome, 15:07:50)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to send more information on Greybird and a request for feedback to ML  (knome, 15:08:18)
** General updates  (knome, 15:09:55)
** knome has been working on the Strategy Document review, more info soon  (knome, 15:10:15)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send information about the revised Strategy Document to ML soon  (knome, 15:10:36)
** All blueprints are now in place, start your engines!  (knome, 15:10:58)

===== Announcements =====
** Changes in chairing the meetings  (knome, 15:11:50)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2012-June/008239.html   (knome, 15:11:53)
** The change described in the mail will take place now  (knome, 15:12:12)
** Basically, any team lead can chair a meeting; if the project lead or any team lead is not available, an informal meeting should take place, and the main points sent to the ML  (knome, 15:13:06)
** Changes to the Testing lead position  (knome, 15:13:26)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2012-June/008242.html   (knome, 15:13:34)
** Since there has been no objections against the mail, the change takes place now  (knome, 15:14:05)
** Janne Jokitalo (astraljava) is the new Xubuntu QA lead  (knome, 15:14:23)
** Other announcements  (knome, 15:15:27)
** The updated (short) testcase sits now at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing/Short  (astraljava, 15:16:15)

===== New ang emerging items =====
** Feedback on Precise development cycle  (knome, 15:17:36)
** ''AGREED:'' We need better communication this cycle; actions already taken are changes in the meetings and social media accounts
** Blueprints; feedback, questions and answers  (knome, 15:27:08)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/   (knome, 15:27:22)
** I've been working on the comparison of music players against gmb, can not continue until i have some input about which are the ones that could be considered to compare, because if media libary integration is not obligatory we already have parole  (GridCube, 15:27:38)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to follow up about the default media player -blueprint on the ML, scheduling some time to go through the spec next week  (knome, 15:32:41)
** Generally, all blueprints have no or slow progress, but things are expected to change relatively soon as infrastructure on a few things has been set up  (knome, 15:35:42)
** grandr is no more, keep an eye on the xfce monitor management dialog  (knome, 15:41:23)
** Enable or disable compositor by default?  (knome, 15:43:22)
** ochosi told he's +1 for enabling by default  (knome, 15:43:34)
** drop compositor on ubiquity? performance issues with low-end machines at installation time if compositor enabled?  (knome, 15:49:12)
** ''ACTION:'' astraljava to look at enabling/disabling compositor  (knome, 15:50:07)
** Meeting schedule; how often should we have meetings?  (knome, 15:50:23)
** ''VOTE:'' Meetings; +1 for bi-weekly, -1 for weekly
** Next Xubuntu community meeting at 21st of June, at 15UTC  (knome, 15:55:04)

==== Votes ====
* Meetings; +1 for bi-weekly, -1 for weekly
   For: 4 Against: 1 Abstained: 1

==== Action items, by person ====

* astraljava
** astraljava to send information on the Xubuntu QA meeting
** astraljava to look at enabling/disabling compositor
* knome
** pleia2 and knome to work on marketing products
** knome to send information about the revised Strategy Document to ML soon
** knome to follow up about the default media player -blueprint on the ML, scheduling some time to go through the spec next week
* ochosi
** ochosi to send more information on Greybird and a request for feedback to ML
* pleia2
** pleia2 and knome to work on marketing products
** pleia2 to raise publicity on triaging, testing and docs

==== People present (lines said) ====

* knome (149)
* Grid''''''Cube (56)
* astraljava (22)
* meetingology (21)
* bluesabre_ (11)
* micahg (6)
* hobgoblin (6)
* xacobe (1)
* ubottu (1)
