{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 10 Jun at 20:01 &mdash; 20:16 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-06-10-20.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 20:03.

==== Team updates ====

The discussion about "Team updates" started at 20:04.

** marketing flyer completion is still pending, content is done, we just need to line up sides for printing
** Image has been uninstallable up until today - nothing has been done, no testing calls went out - normal service appears to have resumed

==== Discussion ====

The discussion about "Discussion" started at 20:07.

* '''Proposal: Use some team money for printing up flyers''' (20:08)
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team/+members#active 
* '''Any other business''' (20:14)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to schedule and announce next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** elfy to schedule and announce next meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* pleia2 (34)
* elfy (12)
* meetingology (4)
* Noskcaj (3)
* lderan (2)
* doubleplusgood (2)
* Unit193 (1)
