{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for July, 2010'''

===== Bug Triage =====

* Many bugs have been triaged and fixed this month.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Uploaded new bugfix releases of Goffice (0.8.7) and Gnumeric (1.10.7) in Maverick Meerkat.
* Synced xfce4-notifyd (Xfce Notification Daemon) into Maverick Meerkat from Debian to let it work again with the latest libnotify.
* Released Maverick Meerkat Alpha2 on 2010-07-01. This is the second development release of what will become the next version of Xubuntu, 10.10. It is available for testing purposes at <nowiki>[[http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/maverick/alpha-2/]]</nowiki>.
* New default applications selected since Maverick Meerkat Alpha 2: Parole (Xfce4 Media Player), Xfburn (Xfce4 CD/DVD burning tool) and xfce4-taskmanager (Xfce4 process manager). Feedback appreciated!
* FFmpeg thumbnailer support added to <nowiki>[[http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce/2010-July/027372.html|Tumbler]]</nowiki> (file thumbnail generator for the not-yet-released Xfce 4.8), thanks to the work of Lionel Le Folgoc (mr_pouit).
* Development packages of Xfce 4.7.x (future 4.8) updated in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ppa|Xubuntu developers' PPA]]</nowiki>. Feel free to test them and report bugs on http://bugzilla.xfce.org to make Xfce 4.8 rock!

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Gave a presentation at Ubuntu Developer Week. Xubuntu is alive and kicking hard!
* Xubuntu needs a new Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested

===== Artwork =====

* Chose a new Xubuntu logo to go with the new branding. Thanks to Elizabeth Krumbach it can be seen at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Maverick
* Sent a call for artwork to be submitted for Maverick to http://ubuntu-artists.deviantart.com/ .

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to keep word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* charlie-tca opened an account on indenti.ca to try and keep everyone updated about changes and needs of Xubuntu. Username is charlietca1.

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a new Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested
