{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 05 Dec at 19:00 &mdash; 19:33 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-12-05-19.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 19:01.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (19:01)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:02.

** ochosi is testing getting rid of gnome-icon-theme in 14.04 to reduce overhead
** Everyone can test that by using the shimmer daily PPA (bluesabre put up trusty packages today)
** skellat is satisfied with testing whiskermenu via no-change backport to 12.04 and is willing to vote on a proposal to make it default
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~shimmerproject/+archive/daily 
** skellat has made no-change backport versions available in ppa:skellat/tests for those willing to try whiskermenu who are not yet on trusty
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~skellat/+archive/tests 
** ali1234 made a tool to easily change panel layouts: https://github.com/ali1234/panel-switch/
** command line only at the moment, but it does the job. needs someone to design a gui
** ''ACTION:'' knome to create a wikipage for panel layout switcher

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 19:14.

* '''Fixing the Gtk2 sound indicator in Saucy, in a way that can be SRU'd (ali1234)''' (19:15)
** ''ACTION:'' skellat and ali1234 to look at the SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
** ''ACTION:'' micahg-work to SRU indicator-sound-GTK2
** ''ACTION:'' team to review indicator-sound-GTK2 progress next week and send an update to the mailing list
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (19:33)
** Next meeting Thursday Dec 12, 19UTC

=== Action items, by person ===
* ali1234
** skellat and ali1234 to look at the SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome to create a wikipage for panel layout switcher
* micahg-work
** micahg-work to SRU indicator-sound-GTK2
* skellat
** skellat and ali1234 to look at the SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
* team
** team to review indicator-sound-GTK2 progress next week and send an update to the mailing list

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (68)
* ali1234 (31)
* ochosi (15)
* skellat (14)
* micahg-work (13)
* meetingology (11)
* elfy (4)
* jjfrv8-work (3)
* Noskcaj (3)
* slickymaster (2)
* Unit193 (2)
* ubottu (1)
* pleia2 (1)
* team (0)
