{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by knome at 21:19:41 UTC. Meeting ended at 21:38:08 UTC. The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-11-21-21.19.log.html.

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Ongoing business ====
* Xubuntu brainstorming week has ended
** Review roadmap for Xubuntu 12.04  (knome, 21:20:31)
** Roadmap is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/  (knome, 21:20:55)
** You have until end of November to take items that do not have assignee yet. Specifications for application comparisons should also be ready by end of November, ready for discussion.  (knome, 21:29:00)
** ''ACTION:'' knome will send en email to the mailing list asking for possible counterarguments (with a deadline) about roadmap items.  (knome, 21:30:59)
* Ubuntu 5-year release schedule for LTS
** Carried to next meeting.  (knome, 21:32:07)
* Maintaining official/recognized derivative/flavor status.
** ''ACTION:'' knome to talk with skaet  (knome, 21:32:13)
* Meeting times
** Carried to next meeting.  (knome, 21:32:29)
==== Team updates ====
* Packaging, Development
** mr_pouit updated a few packages  (micahg, 21:34:01)
** ristretto 0.3.0 is now in precise  (micahg, 21:34:11)
** gmusicbrowser 1.1.8 should be coming after alpha 1  (micahg, 21:34:45)

Note: the following updates were added after the meeting.
* Packaging, Development
** edii and knome worked with menu management UI, the specification is complete, but to be written
* Website, Documentation
** The website sprint went well.
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to send email about next website sprint time
* Marketing, Artwok
** lightdm greeter is in progress
** Settings UI for lightdm is finalized
** Bluebird GTK3 is in slowly progressing
==== Announcements ====
* No announcements.  (knome, 21:37:21)
==== Other business ====
* Project leadership changes will be executed per https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-November/008042.html, since no counterarguments rose, and no other nominations for the website leader were made.  (knome, 21:38:04)

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome will send en email to the mailing list asking for possible counterarguments (with a deadline) about roadmap items.
** knome to talk with skaet
* pleia2
** pleia2 to send email about next website sprint time

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (28)
* micahg (5)
* meetingology (5)
* Unit193 (1)
