{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-07-03 Meeting Minutes ===

the agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* micahg to find what Ubuntu-desktop does with java in restricted-extras - Carried Forward
* GridCube to begin a discussion on the Xubuntu-devel ML to find the "Top 10" FAQ items for Xubuntu - Done
** investigate putting the "TOP 10" FAQ on the website
* start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Carried Forward

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* merges/syncs from Debian are completed
* worked to get the images downsized again; they now fit on a cd
* we're waiting on some lightdm changes
* pavucontrol and pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* we will look at getting pavucontrol in the sound preferences
* look into putting file-roller back, now that it won't pull in nautilus anymore
* look at the possibility of adding midori as a second browser

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Testing is going great this cycle. Even if we don't get every image and test everyday, there are enough tests being done to know when things break
* Bug squashing continues on a daily basis

===== Website & Marketing =====

* All teams need to review website content
** insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team
* we need a news release for alpha2 this week
* the imgcapt plugin is now pretty much done, and we need people to test it

===== Artwork =====

* there's a git-repo for greybird
** https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird
* fixed the checkboxes and radiobuttons to follow the new (brighter) style

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* Team Reports are due for June
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports
* Oneiric Alpha 2: July 7
* Testing for Alpha2: July 5
* The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-07-11 at 19:00 UTC

==== Any Other Business ====

* Thunderbird is default in Ubuntu now
* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* Next meeting is in one week, July 11, #xubuntu-devel, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-07-03 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Action items for the 2011-07-03 meeting ====

* we need a news release for alpha2 this week
* we will look at getting pavucontrol in the sound preferences
* All teams need to review website content
** insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-07-03 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** micahg
** ochosi
** TheSheep
** mr_pouit
** knome

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/07/03/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Started logging meeting in #xubuntu-devel

[23:00] <charlie-tca> #STARTMEETING

[23:00] <charlie-tca> Let's have a meeting!

[23:01] <charlie-tca> The full agenda for the Xubuntu Community Meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[23:01] <charlie-tca> Today's agenda is:

[23:01] <charlie-tca> * Old business

[23:01] <charlie-tca> * Team updates

[23:01] <charlie-tca>   * Packaging & Development

[23:01] <charlie-tca>   * Bug Triage & Testing

[23:01] <charlie-tca>   * Website & Marketing

[23:01] <charlie-tca>   * Artwork

[23:01] <charlie-tca>   * Documentation

[23:01] <charlie-tca> * Announcements

[23:01] <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

[23:01] <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

[23:02] <charlie-tca> Under old business, I missed some of it last week, so it is on today's agenda

[23:02] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old Business

[23:03] <charlie-tca> 1.     Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward

[23:03] <charlie-tca> and carried forward again. If anyone has a chance to research this, please do so.

[23:03] <charlie-tca> 2. micahg to find what Ubuntu-desktop does with java in restricted-extras

[23:04] <charlie-tca> micahg: any progress?

[23:04] <micahg> charlie-tca: nope, will try to find out soon

[23:04] <charlie-tca> Carried forward then

[23:04] <charlie-tca> 3. GridCube to begin a discussion on the Xubuntu-devel ML to find the "Top 10" FAQ items for Xubuntu

[23:05] <charlie-tca> * https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-June/007836.html

[23:05] <charlie-tca> This is started, if we don't get any input, I will have GridCube put together his best effort and we will publish it.

[23:05] <charlie-tca> I think this is a great way to get users to look at the website

[23:06] <charlie-tca> 4.     start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc

[23:06] <charlie-tca> We haven't done this, have we?

[23:06] <charlie-tca> ochosi: we still need this done, right?

[23:07] <ochosi> yeah, i think we still need to

[23:07] <ochosi> i think we should mainly ask for feedback on the current layout though

[23:08] <ochosi> otherwise everyone will come and suggest his or her personal layout as "the best"

[23:08] <charlie-tca> Okay. Do you want to send an email to ML or will I?

[23:08] <charlie-tca> We could send to both -devel and -users, too

[23:08] <ochosi> i can do it, but should it go to the users or dev?

[23:08] <ochosi> ok, both is fine

[23:09] <charlie-tca> It gives our users a chance to tell us what they like

[23:09] <charlie-tca> carried forward, Action marked for ochosi

[23:09] <TheSheep> or more likely, what they don't like

[23:09] <charlie-tca> Team updates - Team Leads

[23:09] <charlie-tca> Packaging & Development

[23:09] <charlie-tca> got to have that too, TheSheep

[23:10] <charlie-tca> any other comments on the old business?

[23:10]  * charlie-tca gets in a hurry sometimes and forgets others want to speak up

[23:11] <charlie-tca> All right then, let's try to clear some of these things up this week

[23:11] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: any news?

[23:12] <mr_pouit> mmh, yep, merges/syncs from unstable done, and I don't think there are any left

[23:12] <charlie-tca> Great! good job on that !

[23:12] <mr_pouit> also, I did some cleanup to try to have the daily builds below 700M

[23:12] <micahg> just smartbookmark-plugin, but waiting for the next Debian upload

[23:13] <mr_pouit> indeed ;-)

[23:13] <charlie-tca> That is working, too. Although desktop images are broken today

[23:13] <charlie-tca> We are making terrific gains! Thanks for your hard efforts

[23:13] <mr_pouit> yeah, there were libreoffice and mono in them, that was bad, and the reason to the huge size (800M)

[23:13] <charlie-tca> ah

[23:13]  * charlie-tca nods

[23:13] <mr_pouit> so I didn't try to add new packages yet

[23:13] <mr_pouit> (pavucontrol and pastebinit)

[23:13] <charlie-tca> no problem

[23:14] <mr_pouit> and we're waiting on some lightdm changes :p

[23:15] <mr_pouit> maybe they'll be done for the next alpha

[23:15] <ochosi> btw, can pavucontrol be opened from the soundmenu?

[23:15] <mr_pouit> anyway, that's all I think

[23:15] <mr_pouit> I'd say no

[23:15] <charlie-tca> Good question, ochosi. I don't really know

[23:15] <ochosi> cause atm with only pavucontrol installed the "sound preferences" item doesn't work (in natty)

[23:15] <ochosi> xfce4-mixer works ok

[23:16] <mr_pouit> yeah, it's either some gnome program, or xfce4-mxier

[23:16] <mr_pouit> *mixer

[23:16] <ochosi> meh

[23:16] <mr_pouit> pavucontrol will only add an entry in the multimedia menu

[23:16] <charlie-tca> I like mixer

[23:16] <mr_pouit> *submenu

[23:16] <micahg> we're still affected by some library transitions, but I think that's just extra space at this point, not breakage

[23:16] <ochosi> mr_pouit: anything we can do about that?

[23:17] <mr_pouit> ochosi: ask the developers of indicator-sound to try "pavucontrol" if nothing else if installed? ;>

[23:17] <mr_pouit> I think it's harcoded, so it needs code changes

[23:18] <ochosi> i see

[23:19] <charlie-tca> It would be nice if we can get it in the sound preferences, however, Having it installed by default counts a lot, too

[23:19] <mr_pouit> here's what is tried currently: "gnome-volume-control --page=applications", then "gnome-control-center sound", then "xfce4-mixer"

[23:19] <mr_pouit> first found, first used

[23:20] <charlie-tca> Any questions for mr_pouit or micahg in packaging and development?

[23:20] <charlie-tca> micahg: any chance we can get them to add pavucontrol to that?

[23:21] <micahg> well, if xfce4-mixer is there, I don't see why not

[23:21] <charlie-tca> Let' s try then

[23:21] <charlie-tca> Bug Triage & Testing

[23:21] <micahg> but this type of stuff shouldn't be hardcoded in the first place

[23:21] <charlie-tca> heh

[23:21] <ochosi> +1

[23:21]  * micahg wonders if there's xdg-sound...

[23:22] <mr_pouit> yup, there's a "nice" list for the media players, they could have done something similar for the mixers

[23:22] <charlie-tca> +1

[23:24] <charlie-tca> Testing is going great this cycle. Even if we don't get every image and test everyday, there are enough tests being done to know when things break

[23:24] <charlie-tca> I think we should be seeing a lot more bugs against oneiric, but it might be just me.

[23:24] <charlie-tca> Any questions?

[23:25] <charlie-tca> Website & Marketing

[23:25] <charlie-tca> pleia2, knome, plantoschka :

[23:25] <charlie-tca> any updates?

[23:27] <charlie-tca> plantoschka: we need a news release for alpha2 this week.

[23:28] <charlie-tca> I will try to put together the release notes by Wednesday, since we release Thursday

[23:28] <charlie-tca> Most of the information will be in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/OneiricOcelot/AlphaNotes and the team reports

[23:28] <charlie-tca> The AlphaNotes page is not for public release, by the way

[23:29] <charlie-tca> Questions?

[23:29] <charlie-tca> Artwork

[23:29] <charlie-tca> ochosi: your turn

[23:30] <ochosi> hm, tbh there's not much

[23:30] <ochosi> i fixed the checkboxes and radiobuttons to follow the new (brighter) style

[23:30] <ochosi> and experimented with other colors

[23:30] <ochosi> but that's about it

[23:30] <knome> (wow, the meeting is *this* late!)

[23:31] <ochosi> didn't get too much feedback on the theme, but what i got was positive

[23:31] <charlie-tca> Yeah, Sunday

[23:31] <knome> mmh, and it's 1:30am ;)

[23:31] <ochosi> any questions?

[23:31] <knome> ++ for the changes i've seen

[23:31] <charlie-tca> I like what the theme is doing, so far

[23:32] <charlie-tca> Thanks for working on it

[23:32] <mr_pouit> yes, the fixed checkboxes are nice

[23:32] <ochosi> thanks

[23:32] <ochosi> any suggestions or requests so far?

[23:32] <charlie-tca> knome: anything on the website today?

[23:33] <knome> not really. i'm hoping i'll have the energy to work on it next week

[23:33] <knome> i've been working quite a lot with some WP plugins, though

[23:33] <knome> the imgcapt plugin is now pretty much done, and i might need people to test it

[23:33] <charlie-tca> we eagerly await that request

[23:33] <knome> you can see that in action in http://shimmerproject.org/project/gmusicbrowser/

[23:34] <ochosi> i think the imgcapt plugin should definitely be used for the x-website, it's pretty self-explanatory

[23:34] <knome> okay, i'll try to set up a demo wp site up as soon as tomorrow, so you can try testing that, as well as the picslide plugin, as soon as i get some more work done with it

[23:35] <charlie-tca> That's neat!

[23:35] <knome> i'll write this in the invitation-to-test mail as well, but the feedback i need is: 1) is it easy to use 2) is there any features you'd like to be added

[23:35] <knome> and maybe 1,5) if something is not easy, how can i make that better OR how can iu document it so that it becomes obvious to the user

[23:36] <knome> anyway, the interface should be really so easy that even a child could use it

[23:36] <charlie-tca> great! I agree that feedback about to fix the issues is important.

[23:36] <knome> mmh

[23:36] <knome> good

[23:36] <charlie-tca> Thanks, knome

[23:36] <knome> no problem

[23:37] <charlie-tca> any questions for knome?

[23:37] <charlie-tca> TOPIC - Announcements

[23:37] <charlie-tca> TeamReports need to be updated

[23:37] <charlie-tca>         https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports

[23:38] <charlie-tca> * Oneiric Alpha 2: July 7

[23:38] <charlie-tca>  * Testing for Alpha2: July 5

[23:38] <charlie-tca> The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-07-11 at 19:00 UTC

[23:39] <charlie-tca> TOPIC - Any Other Business

[23:39] <charlie-tca> Anything else to be discussed?

[23:40] <charlie-tca> I want to thank everyone for participation in this meeting.

[23:40] <charlie-tca> Participation will help Xubuntu grow!

[23:40] <charlie-tca> and, if that is all,

[23:41] <charlie-tca> #ENDMEETING

[23:45] <micahg> charlie-tca: ah, forgot to mention, Thunderbird is default in Ubuntu now :)
