{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2010-11-18 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Minutes ===

==== Team Reports ====
Technical - 
* inclusion of Xfce 4.7.x is in progress
* almost all 4.8 core libs are already there
* most applications will remain the same as they were in Xubuntu 10.10
* Xubuntu will not be moving to GTK3 for Natty
** http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-November/028400.html
** what happens will also affect QIMO project

Website
* moving the website to wordpress is not going to happen unless someone wants to pick it up.

Documentation
* Try to update the documentation to Natty. We are behind a couple of releases already.

Bugs and Testing
* Bugs and Testing: We are working to triage bugs as they come in. We are getting hit pretty hard on abiword right now
* Need to send the Abiword bugs upstream
* Testing will be ongoing, with the changes in Natty for Ubuntu, we need to try and test every day or two.
* Charlie is running Natty, upgraded from Maverick

Artwork
* we are looking at replacing the elementary icon theme with faenza
** http://shimmerproject.org/hg/faenza-xfce
* Thorsten Wilms from the Community Artwork Team attended. 
** Thorsten will work with us and Saleel to develop a good set of specifications for Xubuntu Artwork. 
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/Request-7 is not a valid spec at this time.

==== New Business ====

Charlie would like a new display manager for Xubuntu. LightDM was discussed and will need to be investigated. 

==== Meeting Schedule ====

A vote was taken on when to hold meetings; the Xubuntu Community Meetings will be held weekly on Thursday at 19:00 UTC. 

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* We need to decide on a permanent Project Lead. Charlie is an interim Xubuntu Project Lead. 
* charlie-tca will send an email to the mailing lists for submissions for Project Lead. We need to work this so we can then work towards a council-based approach.

=== Old Business ===

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

==== Action items for the next meeting ====

* charlie-tca to get with thorwil and Saleel about artwork specs by email
* Find out more information about LightDM
* follow up with xfce devs on display managers
** http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-August/028200.html

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-11-18 | Meeting logs]]</nowiki>
