{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 23 Nov at 22:01 &mdash; 23:51 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-11-23-22.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings 
==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:04.

==== Updates/Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates/Announcements" started at 22:04.

** xfce4-screensaver 0.1.3 released, https://mail.xfce.org/pipermail/xfce-announce/2018-November/000651.html, more on this later
** new development release of xfce-panel coming up soon, quite a few fixes since the previous version already
** "primary display" support added to xfdesktop (which pretty much completes the feature in xfce) https://simon.shimmerproject.org/2018/11/12/adventures-in-primary-display-land/

==== Discussions ====
The discussion about "Discussions" started at 22:10.

* '''32 Bit''' (22:11)
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to mail list for Team vote on 32 bit
* '''Minimal Install for Core-like experience''' (22:16)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to mail the list to vote on minimal install ubiquity option
* '''Orage''' (22:26)
** ''Vote:'' Remove Orage from seed (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to note to ml
* '''Add Apturl to seed''' (22:43)
** ''LINK:'' https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptURL for folks reading along
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to mail list re adding Apturl to seed
* '''Adding GIMP to seed''' (22:49)
** ''Vote:'' Add Gimp to seed (Carried)
* '''Add Libreoffice Impress to seed''' (22:52)
** ''Vote:'' Add LibreOffice Impress to seed (Carried)
* '''Status update on GNOME Software / alternatives?''' (23:07)
* '''Replacing Light Locker with Xfce Screensaver''' (23:15)
* '''Applying Xubuntu defaults to commonly used apps (Plank, others)''' (23:25)
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to mail list re applying Xubuntu defaults to various apps
* '''Developing "Xubuntu Tweak"''' (23:40)
** ''LINK:'' https://git.xfce.org/archive/xfce4-profile-manager/ 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to look at making some inroads in to helping users with tweaks - via whatever media he chooses

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 23:49.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 23:51.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-11-23-22.01.log.html#254 Add Gimp to seed]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters pleia2, bluesabre, flocculant, ochosi
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-11-23-22.01.log.html#194 Remove Orage from seed]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters pleia2, bluesabre, flocculant, ochosi
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-11-23-22.01.log.html#453 Replace LightLocker with Xfce Screensaver]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/1)
** Voters pleia2, ochosi, bluesabre, flocculant, knome
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-11-23-22.01.log.html#340 Add LibreOffice Impress to seed]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/1)
** Voters knome, ochosi, bluesabre, flocculant, pleia2
