{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 12 Mar at 18:59 &mdash; 19:53 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-03-12-18.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 19:01.

** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** Issues fixed upstream, landed or landing in Trusty soon
** ''ACTION:'' lderan to create the individual merge proposals for the basic Xubuntu tests
** if anybody notices any bugs with indicators, point ali1234 to them
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned
** ''ACTION:'' knome to work on the desktop of the week -stuff

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:05.

** ''DONE:'' knome merged documentation and slideshow stuff
** ''DONE:'' knome fixed docs translation validation issues
** elfy not much to report in qa - only planned calls for testing left are beta and rc
** ''DONE:'' knome pushed a new start page for docs
** xubuntu-qa to get menulibre testcase up within the next week
** ''DONE:'' knome and pleia2 worked on the flyer, almost ready

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:11.

** UI freeze is tomorrow
** We will most probably need at least one UIFe for the new wallpaper and possibly other artwork packages unless we can get them uploaded/sponsored today/tomorrow
** Documentation String Freeze is on March 20th

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 19:18.

* '''Start the discussion on the technical review for the Strategy Document''' (19:18)
* '''12.04 > 14.04 upgrades, removing xscreensaver''' (19:19)
* '''Documentation stuff''' (19:23)
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 and knome to look at attributing translators
** Slideshow sprint: Friday, March 14 @ 17UTC
* '''ochosi's question''' (19:46)

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 19:49.

** Next community meeting: Thursday, March 20 at 18UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
* elfy
** Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing
* knome
** knome to work on the desktop of the week -stuff
** Unit193 and knome to look at attributing translators
* lderan
** lderan to create the individual merge proposals for the basic Xubuntu tests
* micahg
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
* Noskcaj
** Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing
* pleia2
** pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned
* Unit193
** Unit193 and knome to look at attributing translators

=== Done items ===

** knome merged documentation and slideshow stuff
** knome fixed docs translation validation issues
** knome pushed a new start page for docs
** knome and pleia2 worked on the flyer, almost ready

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (177)
* ochosi (40)
* elfy (21)
* pleia2 (17)
* GridCube (15)
* meetingology (13)
* jjfrv8-work (12)
* Unit193 (5)
* lderan (4)
* ali1234 (3)
* Noskcaj (3)
* ubottu (1)
* michag (0)
* micahg (0)
