{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 17 Feb at 22:00 &mdash; 22:24 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[https://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2017/xubuntu-devel.2017-02-17-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:01.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:02.

** - Beta 1 due next week

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 22:04.

* '''Thunar - 16.04/16.10 (flocculant)''' (22:04)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to work with bluesabre in order to get thunar SRU out ASAP
* '''Documentation team reorganization (knome)''' (22:12)
** ''ACTION:'' knome and slickymaster to proceed with leaving some general ubuntu documentation teams

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 22:19.

** ~xubuntu-doc left ~ubuntu-doc
** - QA testing of 16.04.2 done and dusted, mostly internally to qa
** - testing of xfce components for ochosi:xfce4-notifyd and taskmanager
** - testing Setting Manager gtk3 for regressions - 3 bugs reported to bugzilla> xfce 13316, xfce 13317, xfce 13318
** - testing of thunar master plus 2 sets of patches (interminably it seemed ...) - response from 1 person via m/l (thanks Pjotr)
** - review Contributor Docs - removed mention of Trello
** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to schedule next meeting.
** The Xubuntu council is hanging in #xubuntu-council if anbyody has any issues they want to take up for the council. Please note that the channel has a no-idling policy, so please do not populate the channel without anything to say - or you will be booted

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** knome to work with bluesabre in order to get thunar SRU out ASAP
* knome
** knome to work with bluesabre in order to get thunar SRU out ASAP
** knome and slickymaster to proceed with leaving some general ubuntu documentation teams
* slickymaster
** knome and slickymaster to proceed with leaving some general ubuntu documentation teams
** slickymaster to schedule next meeting.

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (30)
* Unit193 (29)
* flocculant (23)
* slickymaster (8)
* meetingology (6)
* ubottu (3)
* krytarik (2)
* bluesabre (0)

=== Full Log ===

 22:00 <Unit193> #startmeeting Xubuntu community meeting

 22:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Feb 17 22:00:00 2017 UTC.  The chair is Unit193. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 22:00 <meetingology> 

 22:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 22:00 <Unit193> Howdy and welcome to the Xubuntu community meeting.  Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 22:00 <knome> o/

 22:00 <krytarik> \o

 22:00 <Unit193> Well I'm here of course.

 22:00 <knome> krytarik, you missed the high-five. you're one row too low.

 22:01 <slickymaster> o/

 22:01 <Unit193> #topic Open action items

 22:01 <Unit193> I don't see any.

 22:02 <Unit193> #topic Updates and Announcements

 22:02 <flocculant> that's good for 3 months then :)

 22:02 <Unit193> We've already hit feature freeze.

 22:03 <flocculant> #info - Beta 1 due next week

 22:04 <Unit193> Any more, slickymaster, knome?

 22:04 <knome> nope

 22:04 <Unit193> #topic Discussion items

 22:04 <Unit193> #subtopic Thunar - 16.04/16.10 (flocculant)

 22:05 <slickymaster> nothing here

 22:06 <Unit193> flocculant: You have the floor.

 22:06 <flocculant> simply put- what are we going to do about thunar? 14.04 is EOL soon and we'll be expecting people to be upgraded to 16.04 or 16.10

 22:07 <Unit193> We have a fixed thunar now in the repos, so likely going to do an SRU.

 22:07 <flocculant> right

 22:07 <flocculant> the question is will that be done before EOL of 14.04

 22:07 <flocculant> because if it's not

 22:08 <knome> as i mentioned before, since the 14.04 core is supported for 5 years, we can extend our promised 3 years to make sure it does

 22:08 <flocculant> then can we really expect people to care about EOL?

 22:08 <flocculant> knome: yes - but do we just say 'foo' on our media?

 22:09 <knome> i don't think there is much more to be done

 22:09 <knome> anyway, we should totally be able to land the SRU before - we still have time

 22:09 <flocculant> so then we need to action that

 22:09 <knome> yes

 22:10 <knome> Unit193, want to help with the SRU?

 22:10 <flocculant> I know this all sounds obvious - just wanted it minuted :p

 22:10 <Unit193> knome: I'd hope bluesabre would.

 22:10 <knome> that works

 22:10 <knome> #action knome to work with bluesabre in order to get thunar SRU out ASAP

 22:10 * meetingology knome to work with bluesabre in order to get thunar SRU out ASAP

 22:10 <Unit193> flocculant: I believe it'll land close enough to the EOL, but we still have to get it in there either way.

 22:10 <knome> #nick bluesabre

 22:11 <flocculant> Unit193: yup

 22:12 <Unit193> flocculant: So good?

 22:12 <flocculant> yea for sure

 22:12 <Unit193> #subtopic Documentation team reorganization (knome)

 22:12 <Unit193> knome: You have the floor.

 22:12 <knome> so as you might know, the xubuntu docs branch now live under ~xubuntu-doc

 22:13 <flocculant> sort of

 22:13 <knome> so in the same direction of progress, we were thinking that since there is no specific reason to belong to any of those ubuntu documentation LP teams, we might just as well do that

 22:14 <knome> obviously individuals are free to stay on any general documentation teams they want to

 22:15 <knome> the biggest "change" (technically, this is purely social) is that the xubuntu documentation team would not be a member of https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc any more

 22:15 <slickymaster> knome is right, since we now manage our own branch we really don't need to be under the ubuntu documentation umbrella just for social sake

 22:15 <Unit193> Thus wouldn't get loads of bugreports for other packages, that's why I let myself expire.

 22:15 <knome> but even that is justified; none of the text in the description applies to us, since this is not the way to get contributions to the xubuntu documentation even now

 22:16 <knome> and yes, there is this thought of not having the doc people get that load of mail

 22:16 <slickymaster> :)

 22:16 <knome> does anybody think we should have a vote on this, or should we simply proceed with the actions?

 22:17 <slickymaster> IMO we should just proceed with it

 22:17 <krytarik> +1

 22:17 <knome> (again, anything isn't affected, except getting unrelated mail will stop :))

 22:18 <flocculant> I'm +1 to us doing whatever suits us

 22:18 <knome> oki, then i guess we're fine

 22:18 <slickymaster> Unit193?

 22:18 <knome> #action knome and slickymaster to proceed with leaving some general ubuntu documentation teams

 22:18 * meetingology knome and slickymaster to proceed with leaving some general ubuntu documentation teams

 22:18 <Unit193> There seems to be no opposition or questions, so yeah.

 22:19 <knome> Unit193, sorry for not waiting for the reply, but i was pretty sure you'd be for it :P

 22:19 <slickymaster> lol

 22:19 <Unit193> Yep, fine.

 22:19 <knome> and i'm good with this, we can continue with the meeting

 22:19 <Unit193> #topic Announcements

 22:19 * Unit193 scratches head.

 22:19 <Unit193> OK.

 22:19 <flocculant> thought we did that

 22:19 <knome> yes!

 22:20 <Unit193> For some reason, it's on the agenda.

 22:20 <knome> #info ~xubuntu-doc left ~ubuntu-doc

 22:20 <Unit193> slickymaster to schedule next meeting

 22:20 <flocculant> you can have some updates if you want :p

 22:20 <flocculant> #info - QA testing of 16.04.2 done and dusted, mostly internally to qa

 22:20 <flocculant> #info - testing of xfce components for ochosi:xfce4-notifyd and taskmanager

 22:20 <flocculant> #info - testing Setting Manager gtk3 for regressions - 3 bugs reported to bugzilla> xfce 13316, xfce 13317, xfce 13318

 22:20 <flocculant> #info - testing of thunar master plus 2 sets of patches (interminably it seemed ...) - response from 1 person via m/l (thanks Pjotr)

 22:20 <ubottu> bugzilla.xfce.org bug 13316 in General "Search box padding" [Normal,New] https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13316

 22:20 <flocculant> #info - review Contributor Docs - removed mention of Trello

 22:20 <ubottu> bugzilla.xfce.org bug 13317 in General "Regressions between 4.12.1 and 4.13.0" [Normal,New] https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13317

 22:20 <ubottu> bugzilla.xfce.org bug 13318 in General "Setting Manager oddities" [Normal,New] https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13318

 22:20 <flocculant> oh - meant to lose the xfce from those :p

 22:21 <knome> lol :)

 22:22 <Unit193> Anything else for this meeting?

 22:22 <knome> hmm, well

 22:22 <knome> let's do this

 22:22 <flocculant> you might want to action slickymaster or he'll leave it for months :p

 22:23 <slickymaster> bah

 22:23 <Unit193> #action slickymaster to schedule next meeting.

 22:23 * meetingology slickymaster to schedule next meeting.

 22:23 <knome> #info The Xubuntu council is hanging in #xubuntu-council if anbyody has any issues they want to take up for the council. Please note that the channel has a no-idling policy, so please do not populate the channel without anything to say - or you will be booted

 22:23 <knome> there we go

 22:24 <Unit193> Thanks.

 22:24 <Unit193> #endmeeting
