{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 15 May at 20:08 &mdash; 21:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-05-15-20.08.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''DONE:'' bluesabre will push beaaf3f6f47fb1e80fb7821fe69b3513a707cfbe and 28120d05e011ec89412d33d7dc5897d7f6bcf8ee from elementary-xfce to xubuntu-artwork as bugfix

''DONE:'' ochosi and ali1234 will try to script the gradient swap-out for most icons that need updating

''DONE:'' ochosi will manually update whatever icons are left over from the script approach

''DONE:'' knome will file the UIFe paperwork once the branch is ready

''DONE:'' bluesabre will again be doing the uploading honours
==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 20:14.

* '''List of Xfce 4.13 components we plan to include in 18.10''' (20:14)
** ''Vote:'' 18.10 shall - in general - contain more 4.13 components. (Carried)
* '''Continued support of i386 images''' (20:25)
* '''Move seed to Git''' (20:48)
* '''Milestone changes''' (20:58)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CosmicCuttlefish/ReleaseTaskSignup 
** Milestone Alpha/Beta's change to Milestone Testing Weeks. 1 Beta remains at cycle end
* '''New QA Webpage''' (21:06)
** The QA Team would like to publically thank willem and leigh (who's not in channel) for the hours of work they've put in on this

==== Council nominations ====
The discussion about "Council nominations" started at 21:15.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to send another call for council membership nominations

==== Any other business? ====
The discussion about "Any other business?" started at 21:26.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to set up the umbrella blueprint for CC
** ''ACTION:'' knome to deal with dev.x.o for CC
** ''LINK:'' https://pad.ubuntu.com/NMSlV657ha 

==== Schedule Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule Next Meeting" started at 21:30.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-05-15-20.08.log.html#110 18.10 shall - in general - contain more 4.13 components.]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters knome, akxwi-dave, flocculant, krytarik, ochosi, bluesabre

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to send another call for council membership nominations
** knome to set up the umbrella blueprint for CC
** knome to deal with dev.x.o for CC

=== Done items ===

* bluesabre will push beaaf3f6f47fb1e80fb7821fe69b3513a707cfbe and 28120d05e011ec89412d33d7dc5897d7f6bcf8ee from elementary-xfce to xubuntu-artwork as bugfix
* ochosi and ali1234 will try to script the gradient swap-out for most icons that need updating
* ochosi will manually update whatever icons are left over from the script approach
* knome will file the UIFe paperwork once the branch is ready
* bluesabre will again be doing the uploading honours

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (151)
* knome (114)
* bluesabre (66)
* ochosi (55)
* Unit193 (45)
* meetingology (22)
* akxwi-dave (16)
* ali1234 (6)
* Spass (5)
* albinard (2)
* krytarik (1)
* ubottu (1)
