{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* It was agreed that to get more people involved, we need to get excited about contributing to Xubuntu and to talk about how we're contributing to help promote interest.
* Vinze suggested creating a todo list for the different Xubuntu related teams to help make getting involved easier.
* CodySomerville reported that the new xubuntu-users mailing list was a huge success.
* It was agreed that resources like "How to contribute to the doc team" need to be more accessible to Xubuntu users. This can be accomplished by linking to these resources from Xubuntu wiki pages and the Xubuntu.org contribute page.
* CodySomerville agreed to poke ubuntu-qa and ubuntu-motu to get some classroom days organized and to promote these Events to Xubuntu users via the mailing list and other mediums such as the forums, website, and wiki.
* Jmak agreed to spice up the artwork wiki pages to help make getting involved with Xubuntu artwork easier.
* Discussion of the current artwork model and direction occured. Good progress was made.
* It was agreed that the proposed usplash for Feisty needs more love.
* Jan Misiak (fijam) agreed to help with Documentation efforts.
* It was agreed that we would mark small wishlist bugs as confirmed and wishlist.
* gpocentek mentioned that there are a lot of xubuntu/xfce4 related bugs filed under the wrong package and that bug triager should do a search once a week and subscribe xubuntu-team to these bugs.
* It was agreed that some desktop applications like gxine should have xubuntu-team added as a bug contact.
* Goals for Feisty: File search, xfce-notification-daemon, Xfce 4.4, Samba brownser (ie. pyNeighborhood)
