{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 10 Apr at 18:59 &mdash; 19:17 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-04-10-18.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:02.

* Wallpaper issues fixed - thanks to xnox
* IBus should be now dropped by default and not cause problems
* knome fixed the website archives
* xfce4-indicator-plugin patched and uploaded to start the indicators.
* knome started writing the release annoucement/notes: http://pad.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu1404Final

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:07.

** Final release in one week (!)
** 32 bit upgrade tests since April 1st - 3 normal 3 LTS
** 64 bit - the same
** ''ACTION:'' knome to work with elfy to get some people from social media to run upgrade tests (the team can guide them through)

==== Other issues ====
The discussion about "Other issues" started at 19:14.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 19:15.

** Next meeting: Tue 15 April 2014, 19UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to work with elfy to get some people from social media to run upgrade tests (the team can guide them through)

=== Done items ===

* Wallpaper issues fixed - thanks to xnox
* knome fixed the website archives
* xfce4-indicator-plugin patched and uploaded to start the indicators.
* knome started writing the release annoucement/notes: http://pad.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu1404Final

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (41)
* elfy (17)
* Unit193 (7)
* meetingology (4)
* RFleming (3)
* slickymaster (3)
* mzr (2)
* jjfrv8-work (1)
* ubottu (1)
