{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 31 Oct at 11:01 &mdash; 11:56 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-10-31-11.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 11:02.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to write a more formalized proposal about the QA process improvements with elfy after N days of comments/feedback for the pad
** ''ACTION:'' elfy mail the -devel list to garner comment on pad https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-October/010448.html
** ''LINK:'' http://www.unixstickers.com/tshirts/underground-t-shirts/the-ultimate-pirate-bay-tshirt 
** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to start a series of run calls for "translations important for xubuntu" list defined in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Processes#Package_translations
** ''ACTION:'' Elfy to mail -devel re where we support testers

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 11:10.

** Vivid branches for each xubuntu package/project are now open
** Vivid series are up on the QA trackers (which are down ATM)
** Daily builds of xubuntu-artwork, xubuntu-default-settings, and (soon) xubuntu-docs for Vivid are up at https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ubuntu/xubuntu-staging
** All other daily packages across our PPAs have been updated to build for vivid as well
** Greybird already has basic Gtk3.14 fixes, ping ochosi when you notice bugs
** All other themes will still need fixes for Gtk3.14
** upower 0.99.x landed yesterday, our packages have been rebuilt to support it... watch for breakage!
** the re-write of the section about upgrading is done and already merged to the main branch

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 11:19.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 11:55.

** bluesabre to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to write a more formalized proposal about the QA process improvements with elfy after N days of comments/feedback for the pad
* **UNASSIGNED**
** slickymaster to start a series of run calls for "translations important for xubuntu" list defined in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Processes#Package_translations
** Elfy to mail -devel re where we support testers

=== Done items ===

* elfy mail the -devel list to garner comment on pad https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-October/010448.html

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (62)
* knome (46)
* bluesabre (21)
* slickymasterWork (10)
* meetingology (9)
* dkessel (8)
* qwebirc11992 (1)
