{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We are pleased to announce that the first public beta release of Xubuntu,
the latest official addition to the Ubuntu family of derivative distributions has arrived.

Xubuntu is built around  the solid Ubuntu core and the friendly and relatively lightweight
Xfce desktop environment, with the specific goal of providing a nice user experience
even on older hardware.

=== To get  Xubuntu 6.06  Beta ===

visit the URL below, keeping in mind the using torrents is preferred

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/dapper/beta/

There are two CD variants as with Ubuntu 6.06 Beta:

* classical install image with the text mode interface
* desktop image, which can be tried as a liveCD and optionally installed permanently using a graphical
interface.

The final version of Xubuntu 6.06 is expected to be released in June.

=== What's in Xubuntu Beta ===

This release includes a recent code snapshot of the upcoming Xfce  4.4 desktop environment.

In addition a nice selection of applications is provided to complete the user experience

* Firefox
* Thunderbird
* Gaim
* Abiword
* Gimp
* Synaptic

and others.

The install CD also contains Openoffice.org2 but it not installed by default.

Under the hood, as part of the Ubuntu base system there is linux 2.6.15.6, gcc 4.0.3 and Xorg 7.0

=== Feedback and helping ===

if you are interested in helping out please visit

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu

Jani
