{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for April 2009'''

===== Artwork =====

* Jmak fixed a problem with the rendering of the gdm theme.
* Jmak tweaked the gdm theme buttons.

===== Bug Triage =====

* Cody triaged a number of old xfce4-mixer bugs.
* Charlie compiled a list of critical bugs in Jaunty.

===== Community =====

===== Documentation =====

* Cody updated the menu and banner on the wiki to be smaller to help make page content easier to read.
* Cody updated the roadmap pages to reflect the current status of Jaunty goals.
* Jim is importing documentation translations from Rosetta/Launchpad with help from Matthew East and Adi Roiban.
* Xubuntu-docs 9.04.2 was released, removing the "draft" watermark from the documentation.

===== Marketing =====

* Pasi fixed the looks of Xubuntu website
* Pasi created and the team released countdown banners

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Cody patched xfce4-mixer package to fix the xfce4-mixer panel plugin which would crash on exit. He forwarded his patch upstream.
* Mario Limonciello updated gnome-screensaver to not hide the screensaver preferences from XFCE based sessions.
* A fix was uploaded to exclude screensavers' desktop files from the "Other" menu
* Lionel uploaded a patch to libxfceutil to display translations for "X-Ubuntu-Gettext-Domain" desktop files. The patch was contributed by Gert Kulyk.
* Cody refreshed xubuntu-desktop package.
* Cody uploaded a new version of Gigolo (0.3.0).
* Cody uploaded a new version of the xubuntu-artwork package which among other things included Jmak's gdm theme fixes.
* Cody updated xubuntu-default-settings to fix some font issues.
* Jaunty Beta and Release Candidate were released. 
