{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 17 Feb at 22:00 &mdash; 23:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-02-17-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:02.

** ''LINK:'' https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntustudiocreations/pool FWIW
** ''LINK:'' https://wordpress.org/plugins/openid/ 
** ''ACTION:'' knome and branau to collaborate with setting up a wordpress instance for the wallpaper submissions by sunday, feb 21

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:34.

** ''LINK:'' http://xubuntu.org/news/release/15-04/ 
** trusty point release tomorrow
** knome moved a lot of the wiki pages to the new xubuntu wiki; the old ones are redirected correctly to both the wiki and the contributor docs
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2016-February/011031.html 
** 2nd IRC testing session ran - not likely to run those again

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 22:51.

* '''USC replacement''' (22:54)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2016-February/004785.html 
** Mid March should be the the deadline for a decision regarding the USC replacement, taking in consideration the needed time to change the documentations and allow translators to work with it
** ''LINK:'' http://appstream.ubuntu.com/xenial/universe/issues/index.html is the only bit I've seen that get's a hit from 'xub'
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* branau
** knome and branau to collaborate with setting up a wordpress instance for the wallpaper submissions by sunday, feb 21
* knome
** knome and branau to collaborate with setting up a wordpress instance for the wallpaper submissions by sunday, feb 21
* pleia2
** pleia2 to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (163)
* flocculant (111)
* pleia2 (82)
* slickymaster (55)
* bluesabre (44)
* branau (23)
* _Sponge (18)
* krycek (10)
* branau1 (9)
* meetingology (9)
* Nairwolf (5)
* branau_ (3)
* Guest79749 (2)
* krytarik (1)
* Unit193 (1)

=== Full Log ===

 22:00 <slickymaster> #startmeeting

 22:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Feb 17 22:00:13 2016 UTC.  The chair is slickymaster. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 22:00 <meetingology> 

 22:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 22:00 <slickymaster> Welcome all to the Xubuntu community meeting.  The agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 22:00 <slickymaster> Who's here for the meeting?

 22:01 <knome> o/

 22:01 <_Sponge> o/

 22:02 <krytarik> o/

 22:02 <Unit193> o/

 22:02 <krycek> \o

 22:02 <_Sponge> I'm happy to volunteer to run the 16.04 Community Wallpaper contest, if anyone's interested.

 22:02 <pleia2> o/

 22:02 <flocculant> o/

 22:02 <slickymaster> #topic Open action items

 22:03 <slickymaster> Volunteers for running a 16.04 Community Wallpaper contest

 22:03 <knome> so basically, here's where we are now:

 22:03 <slickymaster> knome, I think that is one of yours

 22:03 <knome> bluesabre was seting up a webapp that would be used to handle the submissions

 22:03 <knome> that's been set up, and i've worked with it a bit too, but...

 22:03 <_Sponge> yeah ?

 22:03 <knome> ...it's likely not what we want to use for submissions

 22:03 <pleia2> x_x

 22:04 <slickymaster> what are the issues with it, knome?

 22:04 <knome> so basically we'll need a new webapp, or we need to use something that is ready to use

 22:04 <_Sponge> so it's broke ?

 22:04 <knome> slickymaster, the biggest issues are that it doesn't really do what it is supposed to do, and there's a lot of overhead in the code

 22:04 <_Sponge> flickr ?

 22:05 <knome> flickr means the people submitting their images should have an account

 22:05 <_Sponge> and ?

 22:05 <knome> and it's not open source.

 22:05 <slickymaster> exactly

 22:05 <_Sponge> most photographers do.

 22:05 <_Sponge> mediagoblin ?

 22:05 <knome> we aren't only looking for photographs, and we also are trying not to exclude people

 22:06 <knome> the starting point with the webapp was that it would be accessible with a launchpad account

 22:06 <pleia2> do we have a list of criteria for what we need? (I know we've talked about this a bunch of times)

 22:06 <pleia2> licensing, preference for open source, etc

 22:06 <_Sponge> yeah, but it's broke, right ?

 22:06 <knome> which is something you pretty much need to contribute anything anyway

 22:06 <knome> pleia2, for the webapp or the submissions?

 22:06 <pleia2> knome: yes :)

 22:06 <knome> yes to what?

 22:06 <pleia2> they are one in the same

 22:07 <knome> well

 22:07 <pleia2> the webapp should support our criteria, or we should find something that does

 22:07 <knome> i meant the submissions as in the images

 22:07 <knome> but yeah, the webapp...

 22:07 <knome> i'm happy if it's open source

 22:07 <_Sponge> nme

 22:07 <knome> if it can handle the voting, that's a bonus

 22:07 <_Sponge> ** me too.

 22:07 <pleia2> ubuntu uses flickr, I think ubuntu studio has been as well

 22:08 <slickymaster> the studio folks used flickr for theirs, but as knome pointed out it's not open source

 22:08 <krycek> Their last one was on flickr, yes.

 22:08 <slickymaster> https://www.flickr.com/groups/ubuntustudiocreations/pool FWIW

 22:08 <flocculant> lubuntu do as well afaik

 22:09 <_Sponge> Crumbs, 10 minutes in, and we've not changed anything, yet.

 22:09 <knome> if we do flickr, then we might as well support all social media outlets - as long as we can access the submission somewhere...

 22:09 <_Sponge> Xubuntu G+ ?

 22:09 <knome> including google+, but not limited to

 22:10 * _Sponge means the google community.

 22:10 <pleia2> I'm going to draw the line there, using a bunch of services just makes it horrible

 22:10 <knome> because we really don't want to lock in to any specific platform, especially if it's not controlled by us

 22:10 <_Sponge> Who's in charge of the Xubuntu Gplus community ?

 22:10 <knome> pleia2, i don't think that's optimal either.

 22:10 <pleia2> either we use one proprietary, or we keep on track for writing our own

 22:10 <knome> and i'm going to draw the line here - we won't use g+

 22:10 <branau> Something like that could be set up with WordPress pretty easliy

 22:10 <knome> :)

 22:11 <pleia2> _Sponge: a few or us have admin access, but the G+ has very poor image support these days, I don't think they even have the concept of licensing

 22:11 <pleia2> and it's hard to collect for something like this

 22:11 <branau> WordPress is open source :D

 22:11 <knome> i believe that we should still write our own

 22:11 <pleia2> knome: me too

 22:11 <slickymaster> +1

 22:11 <_Sponge> yeah, do a wordpress :)

 22:11 <knome> it would "only" need to support openid login (for launchpad), and uploads

 22:11 <branau> knome you mean like completely custom? No frameworks period?

 22:12 <flocculant> knome: that's fine - but it's almost b1 - how long do we wait?

 22:12 <knome> frameworks are okay as long as they don't get in the way they did with the current one

 22:12 <branau> which framework was used?

 22:12 <flocculant> and will people be around right at the last minute to decide which we use

 22:12 <knome> symfony2

 22:12 * _Sponge wanders off to OSS bed

 22:13 <knome> the problem was that bluesabre was the only one who really got familiar with it, and i would say even his level of familiarity wasn't very convincing

 22:13 <_Sponge> night night

 22:13 <knome> (sorry bluesabre!)

 22:13 <knome> night _Sponge

 22:13 <slickymaster> night _Sponge

 22:13 <knome> branau, what would you suggest?

 22:13 <flocculant> cya _Sponge

 22:13 <slickymaster> flocculant, did raise a valid point, which is time

 22:13 <branau> https://wordpress.org/plugins/openid/

 22:14 <branau> Looks like there's a WP plugin for openid logins

 22:14 <pleia2> yeah, the xubuntu site certainly uses one (not sure which)

 22:14 <knome> we are using that, but tbh, writing a wordpress plugin for the submissions itself sounds like a bigger job than creating the whole app from the scratch

 22:14 <branau> I've done extensive work with WP and even done some custom plugin work for a few sites, so even if this plugin doesn't work, it shouldn't be too much work to get it up and running

 22:14 <pleia2> knome: that's my worry too, but if branau wants to volunteer :)

 22:14 <knome> pleia2, it's that one, plus some specific launchpad integration ones

 22:15 <pleia2> knome: I think we'd run our own wordpress install for this though, not try to get the plugin accepted for xubuntu.org

 22:15 <knome> pleia2, totally

 22:15 <pleia2> we can even tear it down at the end and start new each cycle

 22:15 <branau> pleia2: I'm happy to volunteer :D

 22:15 <branau> I don't think we'd need a plugin for submissions though

 22:15 <knome> branau, with what kind of schedule?

 22:15 <pleia2> so it's not a long term maintenance problem, we can back up the photo submissions themselves somewhere static

 22:15 <branau> A simple form should suffice.

 22:16 <pleia2> would this require the user to have a login to wordpress?

 22:16 <pleia2> (or openid)

 22:16 <pleia2> and would they be able to review/adjust their submission?

 22:17 <knome> i actually just read about the file uploads in wordpress, and the right way (tm) to do it...

 22:17 <knome> that said, if it's not going to be long-term storage, i think we could just do with a simple form

 22:18 <knome> without logging in

 22:18 <pleia2> knome: I'm inclined to agree, but I also want it to be a decent experience for submitters, did it actually go through? are they on the list of nominations?

 22:18 <knome> well, we likely want people to log in...

 22:18 <pleia2> black hole submissions are not a good user experience

 22:18 <knome> yes.

 22:18 <knome> and no login means anybody can spam the site potentially

 22:18 <pleia2> yep

 22:18 <pleia2> with no way to block them

 22:19 <knome> yep

 22:19 <knome> branau1, did you drop out? what was the last comment you saw?

 22:19 <branau1> Sorry, I think I got disconnected a minute

 22:19 <branau1> 4:15:51 PM - pleia2: [â€¦] o it's not a long term maintenance problem, we can back up the photo submissions themselves somewhere static

 22:19 <branau1> 4:15:58 PM - branau: A simple form should suffice.

 22:19 <branau1> 4:16:38 PM - branau: knome: Depends on when we need this. I work 9-5 usually so in the afternoons I'm generally free.

 22:19 <branau1> 4:16:42 PM - branau: Weekends I have tons of free time

 22:19 <branau1> That's the last I saw

 22:19 <knome> ok, i'll PM you what you missed

 22:19 <branau1> Thanks

 22:19 <branau1> #thirdWorldCountryInternet

 22:20 <knome> ok, done

 22:20 <knome> so my thought here is

 22:20 <knome> the user logs in to wordpress using their launchpad account

 22:20 <knome> along with the requirements we just set

 22:21 <knome> now, to do things right, and since the user is logged in, they should use the built-in media manager in a way

 22:21 <pleia2> which makes them agree to terms and licensing for the submission

 22:21 <knome> but potentially extended in a way that allows them to select license/attribution/etc

 22:21 <knome> in other words - a custom form that uses the media uploader

 22:22 * pleia2 nods

 22:22 <branau> Sounds good

 22:22 <knome> once that's done, they should see their submissions - but only their submissions - on the admin - on another custom view

 22:22 <knome> and edit them

 22:22 <knome> again, if possible, via the built-in media manager

 22:22 <flocculant> can I just say something here

 22:22 <knome> yes

 22:22 <krycek> Also, UIF is March 10th.

 22:22 <branau> Doesn't sound too tough to set up, I'd be willing to bet that half of these can be managed via plugins

 22:23 <knome> krycek, these aren't default wallpapers, no need for UIF

 22:23 <knome> branau, that's the problem; the plugins are designed to do what they do, not this custom case

 22:23 <flocculant> it is now almost week 18 of 26, so we need to see this all up - then advertise it - hope to get people send things in - choose which one(s) we use - get that in the seed

 22:23 <knome> flocculant, ack.

 22:23 <branau> knome: Plugins can be modded :D

 22:24 <flocculant> I'd be a lot more interested if we were in week 8

 22:24 <knome> flocculant, if we start taking submissions on week 20, we can allow them for 2-4 weeks and still have time to drop them in the seed

 22:24 <knome> flocculant, i know that isn't ideal, and my target is ASAP

 22:24 <pleia2> flocculant: indeed, it's unfortunate that it's so late for an LTS

 22:24 <pleia2> but here we are

 22:24 <pleia2> maybe it'll make it more exciting :D

 22:25 <flocculant> knome: right - so 2 weeks to get it all set up - and hope we get submissions

 22:25 <knome> flocculant, if we don't, then there will be no community wallpaper package

 22:25 <knome> :P

 22:25 <knome> branau, true, but all that makes me think that it would be simpler to create our own

 22:25 * flocculant just shakes his head - we should have had this discussion properly weeks ago

 22:26 <knome> flocculant, actually, we did, then bluesabre took his time and the path didn't lead anywhere

 22:26 <flocculant> not that I'm blaming anyone - I'm just as capable of shouting that we should be sorting something out

 22:26 <knome> flocculant, but as pleia2 said; here we are

 22:26 <flocculant> knome: ack - I know that :)

 22:26 <knome> (and i'm not blaming bluesabre either)

 22:26 <flocculant> :)

 22:27 <knome> branau, so again about the schedule... do you think you could have a PoC setup for us this weekend?

 22:27 <pleia2> branau: no pressure ;)

 22:27 <branau> knome: PoC?

 22:27 <knome> proof of concept

 22:27 <pleia2> proof of concept

 22:27 * knome high-fives pleia2

 22:27 * flocculant types slower ...

 22:27 <branau> Ah, you mean like a demo?

 22:27 <pleia2> branau: yeah

 22:27 <flocculant> yea

 22:27 <knome> well, like a demo that can be iterated to the final version

 22:27 <slickymaster> knome, will you look into the WP plugins possibility with branau?

 22:28 <knome> my point of view is that we should write our own, so i'm kind of reluctant to do that ;)

 22:28 <knome> but i can help with it

 22:28 <branau> Sure, where exactly would I host it?

 22:28 <branau> I have a personal website

 22:28 <branau> With unlimited storage

 22:28 <knome> that works if you are willing to use that

 22:28 <pleia2> might start with a personal site, we'll move to our community server when it's ready for production

 22:28 <branau> Yeah, it won't be a problem

 22:28 <knome> ^ what pleia2 said

 22:29 <knome> and i can test it on my host once it's in a point where we start thinking of moving it to make sure it can be moved

 22:29 * pleia2 thumbs up

 22:29 <branau> Cool, if anyone else wants to contribute to it then I can get ftp credentials set up

 22:29 <knome> branau, if you can be around in this channel, that would be *very* good

 22:29 <knome> branau, i would actually prefer if we had a repository for it

 22:29 <branau> knome: I usually am, just not actively. I have it open

 22:29 <slickymaster> can I action this knome, so we can move along?

 22:29 <knome> i'm fine with bzr in launchpad or git in github

 22:29 <slickymaster> #action knome and branau will look into the WP plugins possibility with branau?

 22:29 * meetingology knome and branau will look into the WP plugins possibility with branau?

 22:30 <branau> knome: I was going to set it up in git, have a preferred VCS?

 22:30 <knome> branau, i have a github account (knomepasi), that works

 22:30 <slickymaster> can we proceed?

 22:30 <krycek> And, Launchpad does git too now.

 22:30 <pleia2> we tend to use bzr on launchpad, but it's not a blocker (I can use github too)

 22:30 <knome> let me think for 30secs

 22:30 <pleia2> krycek: indeed

 22:31 <pleia2> and launchpad is open source, github is not ;)

 22:31 <knome> heh

 22:31 <branau> knome: I'm much more familiar with git, but I can set it up however you prefer

 22:31 * pleia2 stops being a problem

 22:31 <knome> branau, git works, no problem for me

 22:31 <pleia2> yeah, git's fine

 22:31 <knome> branau, so, to summarize:

 22:31 <knome> let's be in touch (daily, if possible)

 22:31 <knome> and if you need something, feel free to ping me

 22:32 <knome> from finding a plugin to writing code

 22:32 <knome> and from the webapp requirements to whatnot

 22:32 <slickymaster> #undo

 22:32 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: ACTION

 22:32 <knome> let's set sunday night as the deadline for a PoC that is functional in some way

 22:33 <branau_> Got disconnected again

 22:33 <knome> #action knome and branau to collaborate with setting up a wordpress instance for the wallpaper submissions by sunday, feb 21

 22:33 * meetingology knome and branau to collaborate with setting up a wordpress instance for the wallpaper submissions by sunday, feb 21

 22:33 <branau_> Last I saw was let's stay in touch daily

 22:33 <knome> ok, i'll paste you in PM again

 22:33 <branau_> Thanks

 22:34 <slickymaster> ok, moving on

 22:34 <slickymaster> #topic Updates and Announcements

 22:34 <slickymaster> Vivid was EOL on February 4th <- https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2016-January/000203.html

 22:34 <Nairwolf> knome: what is a PoC ?

 22:34 <knome> Nairwolf, proof of concept

 22:34 <slickymaster> almost two weeks now

 22:34 <Nairwolf> ok

 22:34 <knome> is there something we didn't cover with the EOL stuff?

 22:34 <Nairwolf> branau: in which language you want to write this plugin ? Maybe we can talk about that later

 22:35 <knome> Nairwolf, wordpress, so php

 22:35 <flocculant> knome: we didn't website it in the end

 22:35 <branau1> Nairwolf: WP is strictly PHP as far as I know

 22:35 <slickymaster> I think that eveyrthing was taken care of, knome

 22:35 <Nairwolf> ok, so, not for me

 22:35 <knome> flocculant, as a blog article, yeah

 22:35 <Nairwolf> thanks

 22:35 <knome> but i've removed vivid from the support page

 22:35 <knome> and from the docs startpage

 22:35 <flocculant> yep

 22:35 <krycek> All PPA packages for vivid are gone too.

 22:36 <knome> http://xubuntu.org/news/release/15-04/

 22:36 <knome> that's also up-to-date (since the beginning)

 22:36 <knome> i think we're fine

 22:37 <slickymaster> anyone else has any update or announcement?

 22:37 <flocculant> trusty point release tomorrow

 22:38 <flocculant> #info trusty point release tomorrow

 22:38 <slickymaster> there's still time for some late testing

 22:38 <flocculant> just

 22:38 <knome> #info knome moved a lot of the wiki pages to the new xubuntu wiki; the old ones are redirected correctly to both the wiki and the contributor docs

 22:38 <flocculant> slickymaster: I'll be randomly marking it ready at some point tomorrow - after another rebuild lands

 22:39 <krycek> knome: Got a template page for the meetings yet?

 22:39 <slickymaster> yeah, saw your ping to ochosi and bluesabre re that earlier today flocculant

 22:39 <knome> krycek, no, and we only get the meeting output in moin markup

 22:39 <knome> so let's keep the meetings archive in the moin wiki for now...

 22:40 <flocculant> is that an update, announcement or just offtopic :p

 22:40 <slickymaster> a mixed of the three

 22:41 <slickymaster> * mix

 22:41 <knome> mixed

 22:42 <slickymaster> anything else?

 22:42 <flocculant> anything I've done is on tracker afaik

 22:42 <pleia2> knome: anything we should talk about?

 22:42 <flocculant> oh

 22:42 <pleia2> Two article series to lead to the 16.04 LTS release

 22:42 <pleia2> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2016-February/011031.html

 22:42 <pleia2> this is a thing

 22:43 <knome> yes, it's a thing

 22:43 <pleia2> so if anyone not pitching in wants to, please do

 22:43 <flocculant> #info 2nd IRC testing session ran - not likely to run those again

 22:43 <knome> totally

 22:43 <knome> basially, the media manager stuff is almost taken care of except getting the answers from people

 22:43 * pleia2 nods

 22:43 <knome> for the other series (small details, faq-like series), we will likely need more ideas to choose from and writers too

 22:44 <knome> as the mail says, the planning happens at http://wiki.xubuntu.org/website/series

 22:44 <knome> and again, if any questions, i'm available here or via email

 22:45 <pleia2> flocculant: sorry to hear the testing sessions didn't work out, but thank you for trying them

 22:45 <flocculant> yup

 22:45 <flocculant> more or less concurs with testing we get done tbh

 22:45 <pleia2> :\

 22:46 <flocculant> *shrug*

 22:46 <knome> i think it's great that we did the sessions

 22:46 <pleia2> agreed

 22:46 <knome> and tbh, if there is any motivation left, we should probably try to organize more later

 22:46 <knome> not necessarily only for testing

 22:46 <flocculant> most people aren't interested until they install a new version and something doesn't work for them - nothing new there :)

 22:47 <pleia2> tbh people keep telling me they want videos, which breaks my brain, but I guess I understand

 22:47 <flocculant> knome: not much of that tbh

 22:47 <flocculant> pleia2: and absolutely none of that :)

 22:47 <knome> we can do videos, but i don't know how they will help...

 22:47 <pleia2> maybe next cycle we find someone who is not camera-shy to do that :)

 22:47 <knome> they will just point to boring stuff (sorry flocculant, but i guess you agree)

 22:47 <knome> i mean, meh

 22:48 <flocculant> yup totally

 22:48 <knome> testing *is* not exciting

 22:48 <pleia2> knome: the point is that people want to see a video of someone clicking through and explaining step by step how to do it, on a video

 22:48 <slickymaster> can we move along?

 22:48 <knome> a video doesn't make it exciting

 22:48 <pleia2> knome: I hate videos, so I don't understand it, but it's totally a Thing

 22:48 <knome> flocculant, maybe screencasts with no voice but overlays

 22:48 <flocculant> slickymaster: I thought we were in discussions without the #discussion

 22:48 <pleia2> anyway, just tossing that out there, as feedback from the social medias

 22:48 <slickymaster> lol

 22:48 <slickymaster> indeed

 22:49 <flocculant> knome: possibly - but who'd want to watch someone adding a ppa for 5 minutes when it takes 30 seconds to read the words

 22:49 <flocculant> pleia2: ^^

 22:49 <flocculant> #discussion

 22:49 <flocculant> that worked then :p

 22:50 <knome> flocculant, those who like the videos...

 22:50 <pleia2> flocculant: the videos should probably be edited to skip through that kind of thing :)

 22:50 <flocculant> pleia2: why? That's what it would be about

 22:50 <pleia2> there are people in the world who are good at this stuff

 22:50 <Guest79749> hi, I just installed xubuntu and updated etc etc, all was fine until I rebooted and the top panel/taskbar has disappeared...can anyone help me sort it out please?

 22:50 <flocculant> Guest79749: #xubuntu

 22:50 <pleia2> Guest79749: we're having a meeting right now

 22:50 <Guest79749> ok ta, soz

 22:51 <slickymaster> #topic Discussion items

 22:51 <flocculant> pleia2: there might be - but there appear to be 3 or 4 people active in *test* - not sure any of us are them :)

 22:52 <pleia2> flocculant: fair enough, just tossing it out there

 22:52 <flocculant> yea - understand that :)

 22:52 <flocculant> it is a dry subject :)

 22:52 <flocculant> install this - did it work?

 22:52 <flocculant> :)

 22:53 <slickymaster> I know it's not in the agenda but there's something I'd like to ask which is what are our plans regarding USC replacement?

 22:53 <pleia2> slickymaster: yeah, I was just asking about that before our meeting

 22:53 <flocculant> pleia2: I'd love to have so many people testing that I had to manage it - as everyone should know

 22:53 <slickymaster> I'm asking this mainly concerning about the -docs side of this, because there will be a need for a lot of rewording

 22:54 <flocculant> perhaps subtopic it

 22:54 <pleia2> Ubuntu is making progress on using gnome-software as a replacement

 22:54 <knome> slickymaster, no idea yet for the final decision

 22:54 <flocculant> I haz quote

 22:54 <pleia2> I think our decision needs to be gnome-software vs. synaptic

 22:54 <slickymaster> #subtopic USC replacement

 22:54 <knome> pleia2, likely

 22:55 <flocculant> [18:14:35] <alkisg> one, when will gnome-software actually replace software center?

 22:55 <flocculant> [18:14:57] <alkisg> and two, I'm upstream + debian maintainer for 2 packages, can I sync them with ubuntu (with the appdata changes) even after the debian import freeze tomorrow?

 22:55 <flocculant> [18:15:13] <Laney> within days and yes

 22:55 <pleia2> from today:

 22:55 <pleia2> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2016-February/004785.html

 22:55 <pleia2> that's about fixing packages related to it

 22:55 <pleia2> but work is being done

 22:55 <flocculant> pleia2: yep - catalyst for the above quote from Laney

 22:55 * pleia2 nods

 22:56 <flocculant> and re USC or not

 22:56 <pleia2> I think USC makes no sense for us

 22:56 <pleia2> tbh, never did really :\

 22:56 <pleia2> but it worked so long as Ubuntu used it too

 22:56 <flocculant> if USC has been more or less unmaintained for *a while* - would using it for 3 years unmaintained be that much of a problem for us?

 22:57 <pleia2> I think so

 22:57 <knome> slickymaster, what's your take on the deadline for the decision to make sure we have time to change the docs and allow translators to work with it?

 22:57 <pleia2> until now vital problems have been fixed, with Ubuntu really pulling support we wouldn't even get that

 22:57 <slickymaster> mid march at the most knome

 22:58 <pleia2> I also think there's a problem with the dependencies (python?) but I'm not positive

 22:58 <knome> slickymaster, can you info that so it gets specifically saved to the minutes

 22:58 <flocculant> pleia2: currently g-s still fails to see anything for me - so until it does - hard to decide

 22:58 <slickymaster> what exactly knome? the deadline?

 22:58 <flocculant> on the other hand - I never use USC and am extremely unlikely to use g-s

 22:58 <pleia2> flocculant: yeah, it may mean we go back to synaptic

 22:58 <knome> slickymaster, yes

 22:58 <pleia2> flocculant: same

 22:58 <knome> same here

 22:58 <knome> but we are not the regular users

 22:58 <pleia2> knome: right

 22:58 <flocculant> I use synaptic when I'm not sure of a package

 22:59 <flocculant> knome: ack

 22:59 <knome> when i'm not sure, i use apt-cache search

 22:59 <knome> D:

 22:59 <pleia2> yeah, I only use the cli

 22:59 <flocculant> and synaptic afaik doesn't worrk with those bought things

 22:59 <knome> no idea

 22:59 <pleia2> I don't know if bought things are much of a thing anymore

 22:59 <knome> though we can just tell that the people who have bought things they should install g-s

 22:59 <krycek> And there's translations to keep in mind.

 22:59 <flocculant> right - that's probably the issue we need to worry about more for 'users'

 23:00 <flocculant> pleia2: ok - really not sure - never did that :)

 23:00 <knome> i don't think it's a majority of our users anyway

 23:00 <slickymaster> #info Mid March should be the the deadline for a decision regarding the USC replacement, taking in consideration the needed time to change the documentations and allow translators to work with it

 23:00 <flocculant> I guess as a fallback position I would be happy with synaptic - plus a wiki page of some sort > if you need the things USC had - install g0s

 23:00 <knome> slickymaster, great!

 23:01 <knome> flocculant, wiki o.O?

 23:01 <knome> flocculant, you don't mean docs?

 23:01 <knome> :P

 23:01 <pleia2> flocculant: +1

 23:01 <flocculant> knome: whatever we want to call it - you know what I mean

 23:01 <slickymaster> yeah, that falls more on the -docs that on a wiki page

 23:01 <flocculant> missing :)

 23:01 <knome> flocculant, i don't ;)

 23:02 <flocculant> knome: ok - so as long as it is written somewhere somehow - I am happy with that fallback position

 23:02 <knome> hehe

 23:02 <knome> great

 23:02 <flocculant> also

 23:03 <pleia2> who is assigned to tracking gnome-software progression in ubuntu so we can intelligently make this decision in a few weeks?

 23:03 <flocculant> while slickymaster is happy with mid-march for docs we need input from bluesabre or whoever - likely that date is sooner

 23:03 <knome> i don't think anybody can be assigned to make sure we make intelligent decisions

 23:03 <bluesabre> hey all

 23:03 <knome> there he is

 23:03 <flocculant> bluesabre: hi there :)

 23:03 <slickymaster> sooner the better flocculant

 23:03 <slickymaster> hey bluesabre (speaking of the devil)

 23:03 <bluesabre> trusty.4 +1 from me

 23:03 <knome> of course, everything is ASAP

 23:03 <bluesabre> if thats the question

 23:03 <flocculant> bluesabre: thanks :D

 23:04 <flocculant> no it isn't :D

 23:04 <bluesabre> :D

 23:04 <flocculant> or rather was earlier :)

 23:04 <slickymaster> USC bluesabre

 23:04 <slickymaster> what's your take

 23:04 <slickymaster> ?

 23:04 <flocculant> bluesabre: basically slickymaster is happy with mid-march for docs if we use it - what about you?

 23:04 <knome> or in other words, when do we need the decision about the default package manager for 16.04 from your point of view

 23:04 <bluesabre> ok

 23:05 <bluesabre> too early to tell since it's still not functional, right?

 23:05 <knome> regardless what the decision is

 23:05 <bluesabre> but overall, if its good to go soon, I'll be +1

 23:05 <knome> eg. when do you need to know how to change the seed

 23:05 <flocculant> bluesabre: don't know about you - but it still shows nothing not installed

 23:05 <flocculant> and isn't good at showing what I do have

 23:05 <bluesabre> right

 23:06 <krycek> If fop is ever fixed this cycle. :D

 23:06 <bluesabre> what's the current status overall, or is it still dead for all flavors?

 23:06 <flocculant> bluesabre: the other option on the table is revert to synaptic + a wiki/page/something along the lines of 'if you need things USC gave you - install g-s'

 23:06 <flocculant> bluesabre: hard to tell tbh

 23:07 <flocculant> I've seen nothing from anyone other than people in -desktop trying to get it sorted and landed properly as default

 23:07 <knome> *i* would still just want to know when bluesabre needs the decision (whatever it was)

 23:07 <flocculant> yea

 23:07 <bluesabre> ok

 23:07 * slickymaster too knome

 23:07 <bluesabre> give me a sec....

 23:07 <flocculant> :D

 23:07 <knome> gone

 23:07 <knome> answer now please

 23:07 <flocculant> ha ha

 23:08 <bluesabre> tomorrow is feature freeze, but I can imagine an exception would be granted for this case (since its still broken)

 23:08 <knome> totally

 23:08 <flocculant> almost a cast-iron guarantee :)

 23:09 <bluesabre> March 10 is UI freeze

 23:09 <knome> how long are we comfortable to push back?

 23:09 <knome> we don't have to worry about the UI freeze

 23:09 <knome> they always want us to contact the art, doc and web teams of xubuntu to make sure they are ok with the change

 23:09 <knome> that's pretty easy for me

 23:10 <bluesabre> maybe March 7 would be a good milestone

 23:10 <knome> but yeah, maybe it's a good target anyway

 23:10 <bluesabre> gives us 2.5 weeks for testing before final beta

 23:10 * slickymaster agrees with that time frame

 23:10 <bluesabre> or maybe March 10, just to line things up nicely

 23:10 <flocculant> but does it give us time to pull out?

 23:11 <flocculant> for g-s

 23:11 <flocculant> if we said 'noooooooooope' we'll use synaptic thanks

 23:11 <bluesabre> I think that's enough time to pull out

 23:11 <bluesabre> changing the seed is usually reflected by next day, easily within 2

 23:11 <knome> flocculant, and for QA, are you comfortable with that schedule?

 23:12 <knome> (likely the answer is no anyway, but is it in any way non-utopia)

 23:12 <flocculant> ha ha ha

 23:12 <flocculant> well

 23:13 <flocculant> the thing is - it's not really something I would be comfortable with if the only person I get reports from is me in my sleep

 23:13 <knome> haha

 23:13 <flocculant> we'd all need to try and use it if we had it

 23:13 <knome> yes

 23:13 <bluesabre> Agreed

 23:13 <krycek> synaptic it is!

 23:13 <slickymaster> mm mm

 23:13 <knome> i guess the idea is that we would all try it before making the decision

 23:13 <flocculant> otherwise I'm not going to be +1'ing it if it is just me

 23:13 <knome> eg. before the deadline :P

 23:14 <flocculant> yea

 23:14 <flocculant> which relies on it actually working

 23:14 <bluesabre> yup

 23:14 <flocculant> so - meet rock and hard place :)

 23:14 <bluesabre> flocculant: do you know where we stand on that? Are there plans for it to start working soon? :D

 23:15 <flocculant> bluesabre: mini Laney quote for it landing "<Laney> within days "

 23:15 <bluesabre> ok

 23:15 <flocculant> bluesabre: did you see https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2016-February/004785.html yet?

 23:15 <bluesabre> not yet

 23:16 <bluesabre> came in here in a hurry when I saw my pings

 23:16 <bluesabre> oh that

 23:16 <bluesabre> yes, saw that

 23:16 <knome> hahah

 23:16 <flocculant> http://appstream.ubuntu.com/xenial/universe/issues/index.html is the only bit I've seen that get's a hit from 'xub'

 23:16 <bluesabre> several xfce components have support for that now

 23:16 <bluesabre> we just have to confirm things are good in the packaging

 23:16 <bluesabre> and fix otherwise

 23:17 <bluesabre> (me, Unit193, Noskcaj)

 23:17 <flocculant> right

 23:17 <bluesabre> it's an interesting position currently

 23:17 <flocculant> anyway - back to g-s - I'll be happy if I see people using it and them being happy with it :)

 23:17 <flocculant> bluesabre: it is

 23:17 <pleia2> flocculant: same

 23:18 <bluesabre> gnome-software is going to be the new standard, but isn't ready right before b1

 23:18 <bluesabre> usc probably won't be supported going forward

 23:18 <bluesabre> synaptic is a crappy experience for new folks

 23:18 <flocculant> yep

 23:18 <bluesabre> and advanced folks just use apt

 23:18 <bluesabre> :D

 23:18 <flocculant> :(

 23:18 <pleia2> s/advanced/old

 23:18 <flocculant> nowhere for me

 23:18 <slickymaster> #action Team members to take the solemn commitment of using g-s from now until March 10th

 23:18 * meetingology Team members to take the solemn commitment of using g-s from now until March 10th

 23:18 <slickymaster> #undo

 23:18 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: ACTION

 23:19 <flocculant> yea

 23:19 <bluesabre> thanks slickymaster

 23:19 <flocculant> slickymaster: we can't until it actually works :p

 23:19 <bluesabre> hopefully sooner than later

 23:19 <flocculant> yea

 23:19 <bluesabre> I'll try to get the packages up to snuff before then

 23:19 <bluesabre> juggling a lot of things at once lately

 23:19 <bluesabre> :)

 23:20 <flocculant> but from my pov - ok for ubuntu to decide all is hunky dory in April cos they have autotesting - without xfce

 23:20 <krycek> And free SRUs.

 23:21 <flocculant> so atm we are in the unenviable postition of not knowing quite yet :)

 23:21 <flocculant> slickymaster: I'd do an action starting with Once it works

 23:21 <flocculant> :)

 23:21 <bluesabre> we find ourselves here once every other cycle

 23:21 <flocculant> ha ha ha

 23:21 <slickymaster> lol

 23:21 <bluesabre> comes with the -team membership ;)

 23:21 <flocculant> :)

 23:22 <slickymaster> ok, does any one has anything else to say?

 23:22 <flocculant> on that I am all talked out for the time being :)

 23:22 <bluesabre> anything else I need to answer before we conclude?

 23:23 <flocculant> not that I know of immediately

 23:23 <knome> bluesabre, what color underwear are you using right now?

 23:23 <slickymaster> being so, the only left to do is

 23:23 <slickymaster> #action pleia2 to schedule next meeting

 23:23 * meetingology pleia2 to schedule next meeting

 23:23 <pleia2> aw man

 23:23 <slickymaster> #endmeeting
