{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 04 Jun at 22:00 &mdash; 22:47 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-06-04-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:01.

** ''DONE:'' knome to send another call for council membership nominations
** ''DONE:'' knome to set up the umbrella blueprint for CC
** ''DONE:'' knome to deal with dev.x.o for CC

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:02.

** Release Schedule for Cosmic not set up
** New Council set up
** Thanks to the 2 outgoing council chappies knome and ochosi
** xubuntu code branches moved to git (more on this later)

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:05.

* '''Blueprints''' (22:06)
* '''Git''' (22:26)
** We've moved all of our branches (except test cases) to git!
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.xubuntu.org/devel/git for more information
* '''Core''' (22:32)
** ''LINK:'' https://code.launchpad.net/debian-cd last modified 2013-05-06
** ''LINK:'' https://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-cdimage/debian-cd/ubuntu/files ?
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to continue getting Xubuntu Core patches merged

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 22:41.

** Checking of package testcases is well in hand - thanks to willem

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 22:47.

** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to set next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to continue getting Xubuntu Core patches merged

=== Done items ===

* knome to send another call for council membership nominations
* knome to set up the umbrella blueprint for CC
* knome to deal with dev.x.o for CC

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (81)
* bluesabre (52)
* ochosi (38)
* Unit193 (13)
* meetingology (6)
* knome (3)
* Spass (1)
* ubottu (1)
* albinard (1)
