{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 12 Aug at 20:00 &mdash; 20:48 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-08-12-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 20:02.

** ''DONE:'' bluesabre and flocculant to reword the SD to formalize the council.

==== Announcements and Updates ====
The discussion about "Announcements and Updates" started at 20:03.

** QA is quiet - pretty normal for post LTS cycle
** Feature Freeze and Debian Import Freeze next week (18th August)
** SRU for Intel lock/cursor bug is progressing afaict

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 20:11.

* '''Xubuntu Council''' (20:11)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to announc opening nominations for Xubuntu Council with timeline
** bluesabre to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* ochosi
** ochosi to announc opening nominations for Xubuntu Council with timeline

=== Done items ===

* bluesabre and flocculant to reword the SD to formalize the council.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (93)
* ochosi (67)
* flocculant (56)
* Unit193 (18)
* meetingology (4)
* dkessel (2)
* krytarik (2)
