{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-03-24 Meeting Minutes ===

==== Old Business ====

* ask knome to do some drafts with a grey background and a black background - Done
** http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/website/draft-black.png
** http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/website/draft-lightgrey.png
** this is the blue one: http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/website1104b.png
** Ageed to keep the blue background for the website
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward/after natty releases

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* Included the new default wallpaper (still missing the full-sized second one though)
* Fixed another bug in garcon, related to monitoring (Xfce #7423).
* Included a patch from upstream git to fix a workspace size issue in xfce4-display-settings.
* Restored the default blue for the alternative installer, instead of the aubergine that actually looks pink in all terms I tested (only gnome-terminal is fine).
* Imported gmb 1.1.7 + shimmer patches.
* micahg has uploaded xfce4-mixer 4.8.0 (but I didn't have time to check)

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* We have the beta1 release next week. Any testing is really appreciated.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Still waiting on canonical to set up wordpress.
* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.

===== Artwork =====

I want to thank every artist for their work and I apologize for the license issues not being verified before the end of the contest period. <<BR>>
The wallpapers are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty.
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-uawt-7
** licensed cc-by-sa, unfortunately, it contains images licensed cc-by-nc-sa
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** Default wallpaper for Xubuntu Natty Narwhal
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/pr09studio/5277600138/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** copyrighted by the author, "all rights reserved"
* A vote was held to decide which of the remaining would be available on the CD, results were a tie (4/4). Project Lead determined that the image by leogg would be the winner.
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5224255554/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/tylana/5343925114/in/pool-1546142@N20/

==== Announcements ====

* Beta1 release of Natty is due next Thursday
* UserInterfaceFreeze and BetaFreeze is today at 23:00 UTC
* Natty Narwhal, to be released as Xubuntu 11.04, is due out on April 29

==== Any Other Business ====

* Next meeting is in one week, April 7, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-03-24 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Action items for the 2011-3-24 meeting ====

* Charlie as Project Lead will draw up a proposal to be added the the Xubuntu Strategy Document for choosing a new Project Lead by community vote
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument
* charlie-tca to check on 11.04 docs
* charlie-tca needs to review Testing wiki pages
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

==== Carried Forward ====

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

===== The Xubuntu Council =====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-03-24 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** pleia2
** beardygnome
** micahg
** mr_pouit
** Sysi

http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20110324_1401.html
