{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

===== In Attendance =====
 
* mr_pouit
* jeromeg
* charlie-tca
* cody-somerville
* j1mc
* JPohlmann
* knome

===== Minutes =====
* Packaging
** Xfce 4.5.99 (aka 4.6rc1) is now in the repositories for Xubuntu 9.04.  :)
* Team Reports
** Cody Somerville will investigate use of a team calendar
** Team leads should post project status on the wiki by the 22nd of each month
* Recruiting and integrating new contributors / Building the Xubuntu community
** Cody Somerville will send an email to the xubuntu-devel mailing list regarding how we can better welcome and integrate new contributors into the Xubuntu team.
** Jim Campbell (j1mc) mentioned that there's already an identi.ca group for Xubuntu.
** There is already an active Facebook group for Xubuntu with over 400 members.
** Cody will touch base with The''''''Sheep and Myrtti about setting up regular helpers in #xubuntu 
** Jim will work with knome to update the website and wiki get-involved pages.
* Bug triage
** Charlie-TCA is going to set up a xubuntu 5-a-day team.
* Documentation
** Jim will organize a hug day for xubuntu docs closer to string freeze.
** Jannis Pohlman will file bugs against packages in Xfce to indicate out-of-date documentation
* Other items
** Cody will speak with Charlie and Luke about audio issues in Xubuntu.
 
