{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by knome at 18:03:46 UTC. Meeting ended at 18:31:27 UTC. The full logs are available
at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2012/xubuntu-devel.2012-02-08-18.03.log.html.

=== Meeting summary ===
* Business carried on
** Default shortcut keys  (knome, 18:06:19)
** there is a final specification of the default shortcut keys at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/DefaultShortcutKeys  (knome, 18:07:00)
** the specification mostly adds application shortbuts, but very slightly changes wm shortcuts too  (knome, 18:07:41)
** ''ACTION:'' mr_pouit to upload new default shortcuts to xubuntu-default-settings  (knome, 18:10:34)
* Team updates
** Packaging and Development  (knome, 18:11:03)
** mr_pouit and micahg worked on getting the Shimmer Project themes moved to shimmer-themes  (knome, 18:12:22)
** mr_pouit fixed alacarte - it's no longer pulling in half of GNOME, and it will work with OnlyShowIn=XFCE  (knome, 18:12:44)
** astraljava has been working on ubiquity "app sets"  (knome, 18:13:41)
** ''ACTION:'' madnick to provide sources for the new lightdm and plymout theme ASAP  (knome, 18:15:13)
** Bug Triage, Testing and Documentation  (knome, 18:16:17)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to raise publicity on triaging, testing and docs  (knome, 18:17:20)
** Marketing, Artwork and Website  (knome, 18:18:03)
** New website is released!  (knome, 18:18:11)
** Wallpaper nearly finished!  (knome, 18:18:25)
** pleia2 has been keeping the Twitter feed up-to-date!  (knome, 18:18:52)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 and knome to work on t-shirt designs and come up with a proposal on the design and the webstore to plug in  (knome, 18:20:06)
*** possible webstores for t-shirts: cafepress, zazzle  (knome, 18:20:48)
** other idea is fliers for conferences  (pleia2, 18:20:36)
*** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to gather content for flyers  (knome, 18:22:55)
*** ''ACTION:'' knome to design flyers  (knome, 18:22:59)
*** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to set up a wikipage with all ideas  (knome, 18:23:50)
** General updates  (knome, 18:24:03)
* Other Business
** New wallpaper  (knome, 18:25:14)
** New wallpaper draft has been available at http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/precise_wall/wall-9-preview.png  (knome, 18:25:43)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to finalize wallpaper  (knome, 18:28:08)
** ''ACTION:'' mr_pouit to upload wallpaper to repo  (knome, 18:28:21)
** Open action items from previous meeting  (knome, 18:28:33)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg and mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise  (knome, 18:28:56)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu  (knome, 18:29:16)
** Any other business  (knome, 18:29:33)
** we're under the mainline at burndown: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/group/topic-precise-flavor-xubuntu.html  (knome, 18:31:11)

=== Votes ===

* New wallpaper: Looks OK, fine with us to upload to Xubuntu with minor changes?
   For: 3 Against: 0 Abstained: 0
* Default shortcut keys: changes OK?
   For: 3 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** pleia2 and knome to work on t-shirt designs and come up with a proposal on the design and the webstore to plug in
** knome to design flyers
** knome to finalize wallpaper
* madnick
** madnick to provide sources for the new lightdm and plymout theme ASAP
* micahg
** micahg and mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise
* mr_pouit
** mr_pouit to upload new default shortcuts to xubuntu-default-settings
** mr_pouit to upload wallpaper to repo
** micahg and mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise
* pleia2
** pleia2 to raise publicity on triaging, testing and docs
** pleia2 and knome to work on t-shirt designs and come up with a proposal on the design and the webstore to plug in
** pleia2 to gather content for flyers
** pleia2 to set up a wikipage with all ideas

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (88)
* meetingology (30)
* pleia2 (26)
* astraljava (9)
