{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2011-01-06 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* pleia2 to check on converting website to new logo and icons

=== Team updates ===
==== Packaging & Development ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Natty/Xfce4.8
* uploaded Xfce 4.8~pre3
* mr_pouit and micahg to discuss possible backport of Xfce4.8
* lightdm is now in universe for Natty and needs to be tested

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* New bugs are down from 243 to 88

==== Website & Marketing ====

* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation

==== Artwork ====

* ochosi has done a lot of work on greybird
** please take a look at them if you have time, and give some feedback
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty
* ochosi started working on the default panel layout
** http://wiki.knome.fi/shimmer:xfce-panel
* Looking at "droid" as new default font to replace "sans"
* Elementary will stay the default icon theme for natty
* Will attempt to have greybird, elementary, droid, and new launcher panel as defaults in Alpha2

==== Documentation ====

* as many people as possible need to review the latest docs in bzr
** lp:xubuntu-docs is the lastest branch of the documentation
* beardygnome has reviewed a lot of branch 240 of the docs and have about 30 comments / suggestions to be emailed to the ML

=== Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2 ===

* The freeze for 10.04.2 is 2011-01-20
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyReleaseInterlock
* Review the bugs for Lucid and determine what is critical

=== Announcements ===

* Community Council received a single nomination for Project Lead.
* If there are no objections raised, we can confirm charlie-tca by simple vote.
* pleia2 suggests sending an email to the list prior to asking for votes and will be the contact person for these confirmation votes.
  
=== Any Other Business ===

* No other business was brought up
* Next meeting is in one week, January 13, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-01-06 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Action items for the 2011-01-06 meeting ===

* oshosi will get the discussion started on the ML for default applications in Natty
* pleia2 to check on converting website to new logo and icons - carried forward
* charlie-tca to get thorwil and ochosi together about artwork
* take the discussion about default launchers to the ML

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

== 2011-01-06 Meeting Log ==

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting

[13:03:24] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] agenda is available in full at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[13:03:35] <charlie-tca> We will cover it one item at a time.

[13:04:05] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old business

[13:04:22] <charlie-tca> I see we are waiting for an update about xubuntu.org?

[13:04:31] <charlie-tca> pleia2 or cody-somerville ?

[13:04:49] <cody-somerville> I need to reply to an e-mail from pleia2

[13:05:05] <charlie-tca> You know we are going to keep bugging you, right?

[13:05:10] <pleia2> hehe

[13:05:42] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Team updates

[13:05:58] <cody-somerville> I actually forgot about it so its good you did

[13:06:01] * cody-somerville hates his inbox.

[13:06:12] <charlie-tca> heh, no problem

[13:06:30] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Packaging & Development

[13:06:36] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit here?

[13:06:58] <mr_pouit> \o

[13:07:01] <mr_pouit> yep, sorry

[13:07:11] <charlie-tca> No problem. go ahead, sir

[13:07:18] <mr_pouit> uploaded Xfce 4.8~pre3

[13:07:25] <charlie-tca> w00t!

[13:07:26] <mr_pouit> that's all for this week :P

[13:07:49] <ochosi> yeah, a lot seems to work better now

[13:07:54] <charlie-tca> That's a big one! any questions about packaging and development?

[13:07:56] <ochosi> great work on that mr_pouit

[13:08:18] <ochosi> hm, where/when would we discuss default apps and the like?

[13:08:19] <micahg> o/

[13:08:26] <charlie-tca> Thanks for keeping up with those changes

[13:08:43] <micahg> mr_pouit: is it feasible to backport xfce 4.8 to lucid and maverick?

[13:08:44] <charlie-tca> micahg: go ahead

[13:09:11] <mr_pouit> micahg: if there's a very recent debhelper, yeah

[13:09:33] <micahg> I'm wondering if the community would like such a thing

[13:09:51] <ochosi> i would assume so

[13:09:55] <micahg> mr_pouit: do you think it would be high maintenance?

[13:09:55] * beardygnome would!

[13:09:57] <charlie-tca> Does it have to be all or can it be a module, like xfce4-panel?

[13:10:02] <mr_pouit> (well, 'very' = more recent than in lucid)

[13:10:15] <micahg> mr_pouit: are you using dh8?

[13:10:26] <mr_pouit> no no, only 7

[13:10:39] <micahg> lucid has 7.4.15

[13:11:02] <mr_pouit> yeah, but we use some stuff from 7.4.2 ;-)

[13:11:10] <mr_pouit> that's why I stopped updating the ppa ;>

[13:11:13] <ochosi> sry to bring this up again, but default apps now or later?

[13:11:25] <micahg> ah, you were already trying to do this

[13:11:55] <charlie-tca> By all means, bring it up

[13:12:06] <mr_pouit> uh, wait, 7.4.15 is greater than 7.4.2

[13:12:16] <mr_pouit> (I need to check, let's continue another time)

[13:12:19] <micahg> mr_pouit: right, was just about to say that

[13:12:25] <micahg> ok

[13:12:47] <mr_pouit> ochosi: yeah, I think it should be discussed on the ml

[13:13:02] <ochosi> ok, i was just wondering whether we should maybe talk about a few of 
the current defaults, e.g. browser

[13:13:09] <ochosi> mr_pouit: ok, i'm fine with that

[13:13:20] <mr_pouit> although it's not usually very cosntructive =]

[13:13:24] <ochosi> ml is maybe more transparent

[13:13:25] <ochosi> :)

[13:13:29] <ochosi> yeah, probably

[13:13:32] <charlie-tca> ochosi: Want to get that discussion going then?

[13:13:57] <ochosi> basically i thought that alternatives to ff might be discussed

[13:14:10] <ochosi> there's midori which is developing nicely and chromium of course

[13:14:30] <ochosi> dunno whether any of you are not using firefox

[13:14:43] * beardygnome uses chromium and loves it

[13:14:46] <charlie-tca> Midori has issues getting bookmarks transferred from ff, we 
need an easy way to move them

[13:15:02] <charlie-tca> I use firefox, because it is default and needs testing too

[13:15:05] <beardygnome> i also have midori installed, but chromium is much better imo

[13:15:24] <ochosi> chromium is more grown-up in a way

[13:15:30] <ochosi> and more stable

[13:15:42] <beardygnome> and looks way better

[13:15:44] <ochosi> but i have no clue what version they plan to include in natty

[13:15:46] <micahg> ochosi: than what?

[13:15:55] <beardygnome> though is less integrated to the desktop

[13:16:03] <beardygnome> than midori

[13:16:03] <ochosi> micahg: in my experience it's more stable than midori

[13:16:12] <micahg> ah, yeah, for sure

[13:16:12] <ochosi> beardygnome: not anymore from v.9 onwards

[13:16:32] <ochosi> beardygnome: i already integrated theming for chromium >= v.9 in our 
default theme

[13:16:45] <beardygnome> cool

[13:16:54] <ochosi> but i agree, v.8 does not look/feel very integrated

[13:16:59] * beardygnome checks what version he's running

[13:17:01] <ochosi> but it's still a bit snappier

[13:17:05] <ochosi> than firefox

[13:17:11] <mr_pouit> (I think chromium is more integrated, as it is able to register 
itself as default browser in exo)

[13:17:21] <ochosi> mr_pouit: good point

[13:17:44] <beardygnome> i'm running v9 from the daily ppa, but have pinned it at a 
version i was happy with

[13:17:45] <micahg> mr_pouit: we should discuss why Firefox doesn't do that later

[13:18:06] <ochosi> beardygnome: feel free to test the theme and the chromium theming

[13:18:15] <beardygnome> will do

[13:18:23] <charlie-tca> Let's take it up on the ML, and include any other apps we might 
want to discuss changing. lightdm to replace GDM is one that comes to mind.

[13:18:23] * beardygnome adds it to his list

[13:18:35] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] oshosi will get the discussion started on the ML for 
default applications in Natty

[13:18:46] <ochosi> charlie-tca: agreed

[13:18:49] <beardygnome> didn't we have a chat with the devs of lightdm last year?

[13:18:59] <charlie-tca> That way we get a record of why we used what we did, too

[13:19:19] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: yes, we did. The results of that is that lightdm 
is now in universe for Natty

[13:19:32] <ochosi> has anyone here tested lightdm yet?

[13:20:02] <charlie-tca> I tested in VBox and it worked great on a new install.

[13:20:15] <charlie-tca> Unfortunately, I can't get it to work on my hardware install

[13:20:28] <ochosi> hm, maybe i'll give it a try if i have time

[13:20:47] <ochosi> so we skip the rest of the default apps now and continue on the ml?

[13:21:04] <charlie-tca> Yes, I think so

[13:21:25] <charlie-tca> We should all be able to test them, then

[13:21:32] <ochosi> k

[13:21:44] <charlie-tca> Anything else for mr_pouit ?

[13:22:15] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Bug Triage & Testing

[13:22:34] <charlie-tca> We hit bugs hard this last month. New bugs are down from 243 to 
88

[13:22:46] <charlie-tca> Will start reviewing the packages this week

[13:22:49] <beardygnome> well done guys, excellent work

[13:23:31] <charlie-tca> Testing is a bit behind, since the alternate images were bad 
during the holidays, and now the desktop images are failing to build

[13:24:12] <ochosi> mr_pouit: if i fix bug 686239 for bluebird in hg i assume you'll 
need a new release to be able to integrate it, right?

[13:24:13] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 686239 in xubuntu-artwork "Bluebird uses removed 
controls for chrome; please use attached instead." [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net
/bugs/686239

[13:24:27] <ochosi> i mean basically the fix is already present in greybird

[13:26:49] <charlie-tca> hm, lost him again?

[13:27:01] <ochosi> possibly

[13:27:04] <charlie-tca> Any questions on bugs and testing?

[13:27:05] <ochosi> i can ask him again later

[13:27:25] <charlie-tca> yup, and mr_pouit might answer yet, too

[13:27:57] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Website & Marketing

[13:28:09] <charlie-tca> I am guessing we don't have any update on this one yet

[13:28:21] <ochosi> what is planned for the website?

[13:28:45] <charlie-tca> update the logo and stuff to the new ones

[13:28:57] <charlie-tca> Possible port to wordpress

[13:29:13] <charlie-tca> Want to make it rock!

[13:29:23] <ochosi> it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation

[13:29:36] <charlie-tca> We need to get that updated, though.

[13:29:37] <ochosi> or at least that would make it a bit more dynamic and descriptive

[13:29:41] <ochosi> sure

[13:29:49] <ochosi> but only after choosing default applications ;)

[13:30:01] <charlie-tca> picky, picky ;-)

[13:30:06] <ochosi> :D

[13:30:30] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Artwork

[13:30:40] <charlie-tca> ochosi: got any updates ?

[13:30:50] <ochosi> yep, i started working on the default panel layout

[13:30:59] <ochosi> http://wiki.knome.fi/shimmer:xfce-panel

[13:31:11] <ochosi> you can see where we're heading for here

[13:31:23] <ochosi> i'm also testing droid as new default font

[13:31:50] <ochosi> i would say that we definitely should switch away from "sans"

[13:32:10] <ochosi> and droid is a well supported, not too large (hdd-space-wise), font

[13:32:31] <beardygnome> think i dropped out there but should be back now

[13:32:32] <charlie-tca> Great idea! This is a good release for change...

[13:32:34] <ochosi> elementary will stay the default icon theme for natty

[13:32:39] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: yes, you are

[13:32:56] <ochosi> it's just a lot more consistent than faenza

[13:33:05] <ochosi> and the possibility to get my changes upstream makes it great

[13:33:17] <ochosi> so upstream will also try to be xfce-complete in the future

[13:33:25] <ochosi> which takes a lot of work off our shoulders :)

[13:33:36] <ochosi> the theme has also been improved here and there

[13:33:38] <ochosi> i mean the gtk theme

[13:34:01] <ochosi> it would be great if we could switch to greybird as default theme in 
the next release

[13:34:07] <ochosi> to get better testing

[13:34:15] <charlie-tca> whew! you been busy too. Thanks for working so much on this

[13:34:22] <ochosi> mr_pouit: ^ ?

[13:34:36] <ochosi> no problem

[13:34:36] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Can we get greybird as the default theme in Natty 
Alpha 2?

[13:34:53] <ochosi> the thing i'd like to work more on is the xfwm-theme

[13:35:25] <ochosi> but other than that i think we're really far ahead of previous 
releases where artwork was a last-minute issue

[13:35:32] <charlie-tca> [IDEA] try to get greybird as default theme in Alpha2

[13:35:36] <ochosi> any feedback from you people?

[13:36:10] <charlie-tca> I agree with that statement, ochosi. I see us as actually 
making good progress early enough to correct things.

[13:36:18] <beardygnome> i've not seen much of greybird, so would be interested in 
trying it out

[13:36:47] <ochosi> by the way: you can see droid in the screenshot of iteration3 of the 
above posted panel-layout wikipage

[13:36:55] <charlie-tca> It is a really nice theme, beardygnome

[13:37:07] <ochosi> the shots of iteration1 and 2 show the old "sans" font

[13:37:10] <beardygnome> is it available for maverick?

[13:37:16] <ochosi> beardygnome: sure

[13:37:42] <ochosi> beardygnome: download it here: http://shimmerproject.org/hg/bluebird-
colors

[13:38:06] <ochosi> i'm also testing it on maverick

[13:38:12] <ochosi> so it'll definitely work there too

[13:38:23] <beardygnome> ochosi: i'll try that out

[13:38:29] <ochosi> mr_pouit: maybe we should also test the new panel layout in alpha2

[13:38:31] <beardygnome> where do you want any feedback?

[13:38:34] <ochosi> mr_pouit: and droid :)

[13:38:43] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: more info on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu
/Artwork/Natty

[13:38:47] <ochosi> beardygnome: basically everywhere, i've not gotten much yet :)

[13:39:19] <beardygnome> ok, will check it out

[13:39:23] <ochosi> beardygnome: btw, you can always ping me on #xubuntu-devel or 

[13:39:36] <ochosi> charlie-tca: have you heard of thorwil?

[13:39:54] <charlie-tca> yes, he is the one helped me get the background artwork specs 
together

[13:39:54] <ochosi> he wrote me an email last year and i replied but didn't here 
anything back then

[13:40:05] <beardygnome> ochosi: we're keeping elementary for natty, so no need to test 
faenza, right?

[13:40:06] <ochosi> s/here/hear

[13:40:08] <charlie-tca> I will push him again, then

[13:40:24] <ochosi> beardygnome: exactly

[13:40:29] <charlie-tca> He is part of the community artwork team

[13:40:38] <ochosi> well, it would be good to get some news on the wallpapers

[13:40:48] <ochosi> i think he's leading that initiative, no?

[13:40:50] <charlie-tca> We have 11 wallpapers submitted now

[13:40:53] <charlie-tca> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty

[13:41:09] <charlie-tca> yes, thorwil and saleel

[13:41:42] <charlie-tca> Sorry, 11 wallpapers at [LINK] http://www.flickr.com/groups
/uawt-7/

[13:41:43] <ochosi> hm, i'm just skipping through the wallpapers

[13:41:53] <ochosi> nothing really final there yet

[13:41:58] <charlie-tca> [LINK] http://www.flickr.com/groups/uawt-7/

[13:42:19] <charlie-tca> No, but at least therer are some nice backgrounds there

[13:42:23] <ochosi> but some of them really have potential

[13:42:33] <ochosi> i hope the people keep working on them

[13:42:47] <ochosi> the color palette is a bit boring in most proposals

[13:42:52] <ochosi> very blue/grey

[13:42:53] <charlie-tca> I think we have to give them some guidance on where to go next 
with them

[13:43:14] <charlie-tca> thorwil tried to tell them to not go monochrome blue this time, 
but ...

[13:43:18] <ochosi> mhm, i read a few mails on the artwork-ml and it seems they 
discussed other palettes

[13:43:43] <ochosi> i even once posted there with a link to my current wp to show them 
that other palletes/colors work with the theme

[13:43:58] <ochosi> one more thing i'd like to discuss with you

[13:44:15] <ochosi> what applications shall we have in the bottom (launcher) panel by 
default?

[13:44:24] <charlie-tca> Okay, ouch

[13:44:32] <ochosi> you can see a few in the screenshot of iteration3

[13:44:33] <charlie-tca> group effort?

[13:44:46] <ochosi> but i'm not entirely sure whether my usage reflects the average user

[13:44:54] <ochosi> yeah, group effort would be nice

[13:45:01] <charlie-tca> [IDEA] default launchers to be used in Xubuntu Panel

[13:45:10] <charlie-tca> anyone got any ideas?

[13:45:19] <beardygnome> browser, email, terminal?

[13:45:32] <ochosi> beardygnome: look what might be missing here: http://wiki.knome.fi
/_detail/shimmer:panel_it3.png?id=shimmer%3Axfce-panel

[13:45:38] <ochosi> or even what is redundant

[13:45:55] <charlie-tca> settings manager, thunar, abiword, too

[13:45:55] <micahg> office app

[13:46:08] <ochosi> k, abiword is missing, good point

[13:46:20] <beardygnome> parole?

[13:46:44] <ochosi> hm, do you really open media files via parole and not via thunar?

[13:47:04] <beardygnome> good point

[13:47:06] <beardygnome> exaile?

[13:47:09] <ochosi> maybe exaile?

[13:47:11] <ochosi> hehe

[13:47:14] <charlie-tca> sure

[13:47:42] <ochosi> ok, good

[13:48:15] <ochosi> i guess we don't need update-manager?

[13:48:17] <beardygnome> gimp? mousepad?

[13:48:24] <charlie-tca> Let's get it together, then. We can try to get mr_pouit to 
stick it in alpha2, and we can juggle launchers for alpha3 if needed

[13:48:38] <ochosi> yeah, good idea charlie-tca

[13:48:42] <charlie-tca> Maybe mousepad, but I question whether gimp is used that much?

[13:48:44] <beardygnome> ochosi: i think update-manager is covered by having software-
centre#

[13:48:57] <ochosi> beardygnome: hm, maybe yeah. since exaile is there maybe gimp also 
makes sense

[13:49:07] <charlie-tca> update-manager and software center are two different things.

[13:49:21] * micahg thought they were going to be integrated

[13:49:23] <beardygnome> i'm just thinking that everyone will customise it, so why not 
use to to advertise our key apps

[13:49:24] <charlie-tca> One adds software and one updates your already there software

[13:49:24] <ochosi> depends on whether update-notifications in the systray will be "on" 
by default

[13:49:55] <charlie-tca> micahg: I think synaptic and software center are the same

[13:49:58] <ochosi> micahg: hm, maybe it's planned but definitely not implemented yet

[13:50:03] <beardygnome> true, i'm thinking of synaptic, which i use instead of software-
centre

[13:50:04] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: I like that thinking

[13:50:14] <ochosi> micahg: at least not in the gui

[13:50:44] <ochosi> well, let's wait a bit with update-manager and not put it there for 
now

[13:50:59] <ochosi> there are notifications for updates most likely anyway

[13:51:07] <beardygnome> anyway, i think we should use the launcher to promote our key 
software selections

[13:51:20] <beardygnome> will it autohide?

[13:51:24] <ochosi> yes

[13:51:37] <ochosi> btw, that searchglass there is not catfish but appfinder

[13:51:39] <beardygnome> very nice

[13:51:48] <ochosi> (one thing we definitely have to fix in the icon-theme

[13:51:50] <ochosi> )

[13:51:59] <beardygnome> yes

[13:52:00] <charlie-tca> I been using appfinder. It seems kind of nice, really

[13:52:04] <ochosi> yes

[13:52:15] <ochosi> but do we want something like catfish down there as well=

[13:52:19] <beardygnome> if the launcher auto hides, will it be obvious to new users?

[13:52:31] <beardygnome> ochosi: yes to having catfish

[13:52:36] <ochosi> beardygnome: yes, because it's full-sized

[13:52:48] <charlie-tca> I think we want appfinder there, it introduces a whole new look 
at applications

[13:52:52] <ochosi> beardygnome: it has an expanding separator on the left and on the 
right side

[13:53:06] <ochosi> beardygnome: but of course we have to test it

[13:53:14] <ochosi> charlie-tca: ok, good point

[13:53:25] <beardygnome> ochosi: catfish? isn't that fairly stable?

[13:53:44] <charlie-tca> It should be stable, we have it for many releases already

[13:53:56] <beardygnome> ochosi: if the launcher autohides, it won;t be shown the screen 
when the new user logs in

[13:54:13] <beardygnome> i use catfish all the time and i've not had any issues

[13:54:49] <beardygnome> this topic is getting sidetracked now shall we move it to the 
ml?

[13:54:51] <ochosi> yeah, it's not an "either catfish or appfinder" but a "maybe we want 
both" :)

[13:55:03] <beardygnome> i think both

[13:55:04] <charlie-tca> yes

[13:55:10] <beardygnome> but with different icons :-)

[13:55:46] <ochosi> ok

[13:55:50] <beardygnome> i'm running low in internet credit and want to get into the 
docs discussion

[13:55:50] <ochosi> i'm on it

[13:55:55] <ochosi> sure

[13:56:47] <charlie-tca> Okay, take it to the mailing list too

[13:57:09] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] take the discussion about default launchers to the ML

[13:57:21] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Documentation

[13:57:58] <beardygnome> i have reviewed a lot of branch 240 of the docs and have about 
30 comments / suggestions

[13:58:00] <charlie-tca> Book_Em_Dano is not here, but he is working hard to get the 
documentation up to date for Natty, Maverick, and Lucid

[13:58:16] <beardygnome> where's the best place to send them?

[13:58:21] <ochosi> beardygnome: so the docs might be up-to-date for natty?

[13:58:23] <ochosi> cool!

[13:58:43] <charlie-tca> xubuntu-devel ML, I think, so we don't lose them

[13:59:00] <beardygnome> as a single mail, or as an attachment?

[13:59:04] <charlie-tca> Throw them into one message, and we can forward it to daniel

[13:59:15] <beardygnome> ok will do.

[13:59:34] <charlie-tca> Thanks for doing that, beardygnome

[13:59:37] <beardygnome> i'm about to go offline, but will hang around until i do

[13:59:42] <beardygnome> charlie-tca: np

[13:59:52] <charlie-tca> anything else on docs?

[14:00:17] <charlie-tca> We do still need as many people to review as possible!

[14:00:40] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2

[14:00:47] <charlie-tca> micahg: any updates?

[14:01:04] <micahg> charlie-tca: yes, the freeze for 10.04.2 is 1/20

[14:01:23] <charlie-tca> yipes

[14:01:28] <micahg> so, we have 2 weeks to get any fixes uploaded

[14:01:42] <charlie-tca> I guess I better get looking at the lucid bugs this week then

[14:02:41] <charlie-tca> That seems early with the release scheduled for Feb 17

[14:03:34] <micahg> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyReleaseInterlock

[14:03:40] <charlie-tca> Thanks, micahg.

[14:03:53] <charlie-tca> Keep poking me for the bugs, huh?

[14:04:12] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

[14:04:18] <micahg> charlie-tca: sure

[14:04:47] <charlie-tca> Community Council received a single nomination for Project Lead.

[14:05:06] <charlie-tca> pleia2, keep me straight now...

[14:05:17] <pleia2> launchpad polls are back, so if you want we can set up a simple 
confirmation poll

[14:05:18] <charlie-tca> Can we hold a vote next meeting to confirm this lead?

[14:05:21] <highvoltage> yay

[14:05:23] <pleia2> or at a meeting :)

[14:05:40] <charlie-tca> Which ever one is best for it?

[14:05:44] <pleia2> however you see fit, xubuntu is a small enough project that it 
doesn't have to be super formal

[14:05:56] <pleia2> just as long as there aren't complaints about the process

[14:06:45] <pleia2> if you want to do it at a meeting I'd send an email to the list 
prior to asking for votes if you can't make it to the meeting (I'd be happy to be the 
contact person for these confirmation votes)

[14:07:30] <charlie-tca> Let's do that, to keep it solid.

[14:07:34] <pleia2> great

[14:07:44] <charlie-tca> thank you

[14:07:55] <charlie-tca> and, since we are running a bit over,

[14:08:11] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Business?

[14:09:17] <charlie-tca> There being no other business, we will meet again on January 13 
at 19:00 UTC.

[14:09:23] <charlie-tca> Thank you all for attending.

[14:09:33] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Meeting ended.
