{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': tbd
* '''Packages affected''':  xubuntu.org website

=== Summary ===

This specification provides detailed guidance on the construction of the new Xubuntu.org website.  

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

==== What do we like about the current design ====

==== What can be improved with current design ====

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

A test site is currently up at http://vidd.us/~xubuntu

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

----
CategorySpec
