{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page is a scratchpad page for Wiki ToDo tasks.  

Artwork/Incoming/XubuntuEdgy/Proposals
	Nice stuff should be forward-ported to Feisty

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Edgy/IncomingProposals]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow
* '''Artwork wiki needs to be better organized''' - j1mc

* PS3 Xubuntu Project https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PS3Xubuntu

DanieleFavara/*
	This is a bunch of gibberish that hasn't been updated since April.
 
* '''No action required''' - CodySomerville
* '''Can we copy the relevant content over to meetings?  Get permission from the original wiki page maintainer?  Check back on this''' - j1mc 20080322

DapperXubuntuCdFaces
	Old dated May. Seems to have been dropped or adopted anyways.

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/ColorScheme]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuColorScheme
	Old development relic. April.

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/CdFaces]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuGdm
	Seems like the artwork got adopted and this is old anyways. April.

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/GDM]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuDesktop
	Old dev page artwork adopted hails from April.

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/Desktop]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuGtkTheme
	YaDR (Yet another Dev Relic) April again.

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/GtkTheme]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuIcons
	YaDR NES (Not Edited Since) April

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/Icons]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuLogo
	YaDR NES April

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/Logo]]</nowiki>''' - CelloFellow

DapperXubuntuLook
	YaDR NES June

* '''Renamed to Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper''' - CodySomerville

DapperXubuntuUsplash
	YaDR NES May

* '''Moved to <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Artwork/Dapper/Usplash]]</nowiki> - CelloFellow

InstallationXubuntu
	Redirects to I think it's German.

InstalleerXubuntu
	This one's Dutch.

InstallerXubuntu
	This one's French.

InstallingXubuntu
	English may need some updating. Best to have Dapper (cause it's LTS) and Edgy instructions.

ItalianRedirect
	Links to Italian wiki.

MainInclusionReportXubuntuArtwork
	YaDR NES January

MainInclusionReportXubuntuDefaultSettings
	YaDR NES January

MainInclusionReportXubuntuDocs
	YaDR NES January

MainInclusionReportXubuntuMeta
	YaDR NES January

MainInclusionReportXubuntuSystemTools
	YaDR NES May

MainInclusionXubuntuAtMag
	YaDR NES October (Strange that it's October.)

MainInclusionXubuntuReportTemplate
	YaDR NES December 05

MauricioHernandez/SomeIdeas/Xubuntu
	YaDR NES February Quite Interesting

MeetingLogs/Xubuntu
	Seems neglected NES September

* '''No action required/Maintenance resumed''' - CodySomerville

MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_*
	A chat-session log. Archive somewhere else maybe?

* '''No action required/Maintenance resumed''' - CodySomerville

UbuntuAppsSymlinkedToXubuntuEquivs
	YaDR NES September (Not that old then.)

Vincent/XubuntuLog
	Blog-like, but NES March

* '''No action required''' - CodySomerville

Xubuntu
	Main page needs serious updating still has dapper dev pages linked.

Xubuntu/Artwork/Incoming/Xubuntulooks
	Needs updated I think NES July so is still Edgy dev.

Xubuntu/Documentation
	Seems to need some updating there's still stuff on Dapper betas.

Xubuntu/EdgyLook
	Edgy's out so this is YaDR NES August

* '''Renamed to Xubuntu/Artwork/Edgy''' - CodySomerville

Xubuntu/News and Xubuntu/News/*
	Unused and out of date NES June

* '''Deleted/Migrated''' - CodySomerville

Xubuntu/OldProposedPackages
	This page is old.

Xubuntu/Press
	Empty

* '''Deleted''' - CodySomerville

Xubuntu/ProposedPackages
	Seams ok, in progress says it's getting cleaned up hope it is.

Xubuntu/ReleaseNotes
	This ought to have info on the CURRENT Stable which is Edgy.

Xubuntu/Releases
	Out of date still in Dapper. Since Dapper is still the commercial version, it ought to have both Dapper and Edgy stuff.

Xubuntu/ScreencastHowto
	Interesting may need some updating.

Xubuntu/Testing/Current
	Seems strangly empty must be a dev page.

Xubuntu/Testing/Short
	YaDR NES April

Xubuntu/WikiNamingRestructure
	Blah Blah Blah Seems old.

* '''Merged w/ this document''' - CodySomerville

Xubuntu/XfceGoodies
	YaDR NES March

XubuntuArtwork
	YaDR

XubuntuBetaReleaseNote
	Is this required?

XubuntuDapperBeta
	YaDR

XubuntuDapperProgress
	YaDR NES June

XubuntuDapperReleaseNotes
	Ok this is nice and current. Seeing as Dapper is still supported.

XubuntuDesktopGoalsSpec
	YaDR early Edgy stuff NES June

Xubuntu/Documentation
	Needs serious updating talks about Dapper Beta stuff.

XubuntuEdgyIdeas
	YaDR NES September

XubuntuFrancais
	Points to French wiki.

XubuntuLangpacksSpec
	YaDR NES June

XubuntuLighterSpec
	YaDR interesting NES August

XubuntuMeetingAgenda
	YaDR NES July

* '''Deleted''' - CodySomerville

XubuntuMeetingAgenda-2006-03-22
	YaDR

* '''Moved to Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Agenda/2006-03-22''' - CodySomerville

XubuntuMeetingAgenda-2006-03-29
	YaDR

* '''Moved to Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Agenda/2006-03-29''' - CodySomerville

XubuntuMeetingAgenda-2006-04-05
	YaDR

* '''Moved to Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Agenda/2006-04-05''' - CodySomerville

Xubuntu/ScreencastHowto
	Move to Xubuntu/Documentation/Screencast ?

<nowiki>[[xubuntu]]</nowiki>
	Unnecessary redirect. Delete ?

<nowiki>[[xubuntunews/2006-04-25]]</nowiki>
	Migrate to website ?

<nowiki>[[xubuntunews/2006-06-01]]</nowiki>
	Migrate to website ?

XubuntuMeetings
	Unnecessary redirect. Delete ?

XubuntuMeetings/VoteOnDate
	Unnecessary redirect. Delete ?
