{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Information about Xbuntu 11.10 ==

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricOcelot/TechnicalOverview|Technical Overview]]</nowiki> concern all Ubuntu derivatives and Ubuntu specifically. 

Read on for specific improvements in Xubuntu.

== What's new in Xubuntu ==

Some of the highlights of the 11.10 release include:

'''gThumb''' is now in the default Xubuntu 11.10 installation, to help users with image transformations and viewing. The Xubuntu developers wanted to insure an enjoyable, usable operating system. By including gThumb, along with Rhistretto, users have the ability to not only view all images and files, but also to perform minor editing of photos.

'''leafpad''' is the new default text editor(was mousepad), and now includes the ability to print.

'''pastebinit''' is now included in Xubuntu 11.10 intallations by default. If you need to use http://paste.ubuntu.com/, you can use pastebinit in terminals to paste directly without copying and pasting the data.

'''LightDM''' is the new application that manages logins in Xubuntu 11.10. 

==== Updated Applications ====

'''Onboard''' (the onscreen keyboard) is now included in the default Xubuntu menus, under Accessories. For those who require an onscreen keyboard, this will be much easier to access using only a mouse or touchpad.

Xubuntu will continue to use '''Synaptic Package Manager''', yet provides the Ubuntu Software Center for those who prefer it.

== Bugs ==

* When using the new plymouth splash screen, occasionally using the desktop cd to install, the message "hit any key to continue" does not appear. Should you get a black screen with text and the sliding throbber, when the throbber stops moving and the cd ejects, remove the cd and hit enter on the keyboard to continue.(Bug:872472)
* There is no screen title or headings when choosing "Install Xubuntu"  from the CD menu (Bug:840094)
* When Gnome Services is checked, Onboard Keyboard will be started automatically as the user logs in. (Bug:872515)
