{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Xubuntu team report for July, 2011 ====

===== Bug Triage =====

* Set up a tentative daily testing <nowiki>[[https://spreadsheets.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AucFSttyWCevdGZSenZqRS04eE9LYnBwSWtUM0NJRXc&hl=en_US&authkey=CP282scF#gid=0 | schedule]]</nowiki>.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Many bugs have been fixed.
* Released Oneiric Ocelot Alpha2.
* LightDM replaced GDM as the login manager.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Approval has been received for the website to be converted to Wordpress.
* Website team is currently working on a test site of Wordpress for http://xubuntu.org .
* Re-wrote several pages for the Xubuntu website.
* Xubuntu needs a Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.
** Marketing Lead will produce of news releases, blog articles, advertising Xubuntu, tracking reviews of Xubuntu.

===== Artwork =====

* Greybird gtk-theme improvements
* Working on a new plymouth theme.
* Xubuntu needs an Artwork Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.
** Artwork Lead will work with the current artists for Xubuntu, producing themes, plymouth theme, website graphics, and other art as needed.

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to get word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* The Xubuntu Community holds a regular meetings alternating on Mondays at 19:00 UTC and Sundays at 22:00 UTC in #xubuntu-devel. Please see the schedule and agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings.

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.

===== Governance =====

* An ammendment to the Xubuntu Strategy Document has been proposed and published to the mailing lists. A two-week comment period has resulted in no comments.
