{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 12 May at 18:00 &mdash; 18:27 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-05-12-18.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 18:04.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-April/010697.html 

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 18:06.

** QA started to plan Wily

==== Package testing ====
The discussion about "Package testing" started at 18:08.

** ''LINK:'' http://pastebin.com/Q4KEDumc 
** ''LINK:'' http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/327/builds/82959/testcases 

==== Milestones to take part in ====
The discussion about "Milestones to take part in" started at 18:11.

** ''ACTION:'' elfy to mail -dev list re Milestone participation during Wily cycle

==== QA Incentive ====
The discussion about "QA Incentive" started at 18:13.

** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to email list re: QA and incentives

==== Announcements & Discussion ====
The discussion about "Announcements & Discussion" started at 18:26.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** elfy to mail -dev list re Milestone participation during Wily cycle
* pleia2
** pleia2 to email list re: QA and incentives

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* pleia2 (70)
* elfy (56)
* meetingology (6)
* ubottu (1)
