{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 13 Sep at 22:02 &mdash; 22:25 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2018/xubuntu-devel.2018-09-13-22.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:06.

* '''bluesabre to continue getting Xubuntu Core patches merged''' (22:06)
** No progress on merging Xubuntu Core at this time
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-team to discuss minimal ubiquity install option

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:09.

** Feature Freeze was on August 23rd
** User Interface Freeze is today
** Documentation String Freeze is September 20th
** Beta Freeze is September 24th
** In case you want to see updates from August, I documented quite a few on my blog, https://bluesabre.org/2018/09/07/xubuntu-development-update-september-2018/

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:11.

* '''Update on Xfce 4.13 plans''' (22:11)
** So far, we've added the following Xfce 4.13 components to Cosmic: thunar, xfdesktop4, xfce4-panel, xfce4-screenshooter, xfce4-settings, xfconf, xfce4-taskmanager, xfce4-terminal
* '''QA Plans for Cosmic and DD (flocculant)''' (22:15)
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to communicate QA Plans for Cosmic and DD
* '''Open discussion''' (22:16)

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 22:19.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 22:24.

** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* flocculant
** flocculant to communicate QA Plans for Cosmic and DD
* slickymaster
** slickymaster to schedule next meeting
* xubuntu-team
** xubuntu-team to discuss minimal ubiquity install option

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (62)
* slickymaster (15)
* meetingology (8)
* Spass (4)
* krytarik (3)
* ondondil (2)
* xubuntu-team (0)
* flocculant (0)
