{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for December 2008'''

===== Artwork =====

* Pasi (knome) has been working on drafting <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Artwork-Guidelines|Xubuntu artwork guidelines]]</nowiki>.

===== Bug Triage =====

* Bug triage proceeding at a steady pace. Many bugs were triaged this month.
* A high number of bugs were reported upstream.

===== Community =====

* Cody, Jannis, Michael, and Pasi all attended the Ubuntu Developer Summit in Mountain View, California
* Cody and Pasi attended FOSSCamp in Mountain View, California.
* Substantial amount of work has been done on drafting the Jaunty "<nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Growing the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki>" specification.

===== Documentation =====

* Jim, Pasi, and Jannis are brainstorming an idea to work closely with upstream and other distributions to rewrite the upstream documentation. 
* Jim has run some scripts to start converting Ubuntu docs to Xubuntu docs.  Docs require some cleanup, but it is a good start.

===== Marketing =====

* <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/|New website]]</nowiki> parallel to Intrepid release.
* Substantial amount of work has been done on drafting the Jaunty "<nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Growing the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki>" specification.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Alpha 2 released.
* Updated '''xubuntu-meta''' package to fix armel build failure (Thanks to Sarah Hobbs).
* Add libxine1-ffmpeg to recommends for '''xfmedia'''.
* Michael (NCommander) has begun backport of '''Xfce 4.4.3''' to Intrepid.
* Corrected an internationalization issue in en_IN local for '''Orage''' where the start/end buttons show the date number, but not the day of the week properly.
* Charlie Kravetz (charlie-tca) appointed to Xubuntu QA lead.
* Charlie (charlie-tca) has been working on improving the testing wiki pages including the Xubuntu test cases.
* Cody Somerville (cody-somerville) packaged '''Sion''', a gio/vfs mount manager, from the Xfce4 goodies.
* Lionel (mr_pouit) packaged a new upstream release of '''xfce4-dict''' (0.5.2) and '''xfburn''' (0.4.0).
