{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 24 Apr at 19:00 &mdash; 20:39 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-04-24-19.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Making sure the Processes page is up-to-date ====
The discussion about "Making sure the Processes page is up-to-date" started at 19:01.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Processes 

==== Plans for 14.04 SRU's ====
The discussion about "Plans for 14.04 SRU's" started at 19:06.

** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-14-04-point-1 

==== Cleaning up Launchpad assets ====
The discussion about "Cleaning up Launchpad assets" started at 19:09.

** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website/+bug/1305585 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to contact LP admins to drop ~xubuntu-xfce-daily-builds and ~xubuntu-buildbot
** ''ACTION:'' knome to check if the xubuntu-desktop project has any technical reason to be kept and get it removed if not

==== Create a testing PPA common to -team ====
The discussion about "Create a testing PPA common to -team" started at 19:13.

** ''LINK:'' https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=10844 
** ''Vote:'' Team for official testing PPA's: +1 for -dev, -1 for something else (Carried)

==== Documentation lead change ====
The discussion about "Documentation lead change" started at 19:29.

** ''Vote:'' Appoint slickymaster as the new documentation lead? (-team members can vote) (Carried)
** Taking effect immediately, David Pires (slickymaster) is the new Xubuntu documentation lead.
** ''ACTION:'' knome to work with appropriate (past) leaders to update the Leaders wikipage today

==== Using the project money (gathered from Linux Identity articles) ====
The discussion about "Using the project money (gathered from Linux Identity articles)" started at 19:35.

** ''Vote:'' Cover pleia2's printing costs? (-team can vote) (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to follow up with the exact amount with knome, who shall paypal the money to her

==== Review and discuss team reporting ====
The discussion about "Review and discuss team reporting" started at 19:46.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports 

==== Use a common area for detailed discussions notes such as Trello ====
The discussion about "Use a common area for detailed discussions notes such as Trello" started at 19:51.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/U/Trello%20Communication 
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to extend the Trello spec, discussion to follow

==== Project future: New project lead, council, or something else? ====
The discussion about "Project future: New project lead, council, or something else?" started at 19:55.

** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team/+members 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a call for new XPL's to the -devel mailing list
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a mail about creating a xubuntu-team mailing list
** ''Vote:'' Create xubuntu-team mailing list or not? (non-final voting, just gathering general thoughts) (Carried)
* '''Team leaders''' (20:29)
** ''ACTION:'' new-xpl: New XPL/council to run a call for a new technical lead

==== Other issues ====
The discussion about "Other issues" started at 20:35.

==== Next meeting ====
The discussion about "Next meeting" started at 20:36.

** Next meeting: May 8, 19 UTC

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-04-24-19.00.log.html#153 Team for official testing PPA's: +1 for -dev, -1 for something else]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/3)
** Voters knome, jjfrv8-work, ochosi, elfy, slickymaster, Unit193, bluesabre-tmp, GridCube
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-04-24-19.00.log.html#267 Cover pleia2's printing costs? (-team can vote)]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 7/0/0)
** Voters knome, jjfrv8-work, ochosi, elfy, slickymaster, bluesabre-tmp, GridCube
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-04-24-19.00.log.html#221 Appoint slickymaster as the new documentation lead? (-team members can vote)]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 7/0/1)
** Voters knome, jjfrv8-work, ochosi, elfy, slickymaster, Unit193, bluesabre-tmp, GridCube
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-04-24-19.00.log.html#639 Create xubuntu-team mailing list or not? (non-final voting, just gathering general thoughts)]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/1)
** Voters elfy, knome, bluesabre-tmp, pleia2, slickymaster

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** elfy to extend the Trello spec, discussion to follow
* knome
** knome to contact LP admins to drop ~xubuntu-xfce-daily-builds and ~xubuntu-buildbot
** knome to check if the xubuntu-desktop project has any technical reason to be kept and get it removed if not
** knome to work with appropriate (past) leaders to update the Leaders wikipage today
** pleia2 to follow up with the exact amount with knome, who shall paypal the money to her
** knome to send a call for new XPL's to the -devel mailing list
** knome to send a mail about creating a xubuntu-team mailing list
* new-xpl
** new-xpl: New XPL/council to run a call for a new technical lead
* pleia2
** pleia2 to follow up with the exact amount with knome, who shall paypal the money to her

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (312)
* ochosi (111)
* elfy (73)
* meetingology (61)
* bluesabre-tmp (42)
* pleia2 (37)
* Unit193 (27)
* GridCube (27)
* slickymaster (26)
* jjfrv8-work (6)
* ubottu (2)
* amigamagic (2)
* Logan_ (1)
* new-xpl (0)
