{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Desired Features ===

Here we do a simple comparison of some known and popular media players for linux, most of them are in the repos, the set of minimal desired functions are:

* Having a functional media library
* Having the ability to handle large libraries
* Having a separated playlist (or queue) from the media library
* Having the ability to search the media library without affecting the playing list
* Having the ability to browse/play all albums by artist
* Having the ability to browse/play all artists on album
* Having a sensible default sort order (artist, album, disc, track)
* Having the ability to search the playing list to rapidly jump to a song
* Having the possibility to save playlist to share them or backup them
* Having the possibility of playing podcasts or other streams formats
* Having MPRIS support (for sound indicator integration)

Other considered characteristics are the installed size, toolkit and presence in the repos.

Note: I have only regularly used Rythmbox and Banshee. Rows for other players reflect what I was able to figure out in the first 15 minutes - 1 hour attempting to use them, and may be incorrect. They should however reflect the new user "out of box" experience rather well - ali1234.

The "Import Time" test was the time taken to import a 53GB library with 7184 tracks, 676 artists, and 793 albums; totalling 23 days, 4 hours, 28 minutes of music. The test was performed using an Acer Aspire One netbook with Intel(R) Atom(TM) CPU N270 @ 1.60GHz, 1.5GB RAM, and 120GB HDD. As such it reflects a medium-sized library on low-end hardware. The system was rebooted between tests to prevent disk cache affecting results.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;font-weight:bold;">
| Audacious
| Banshee
| Decibel
| Exaile
| gmusicbrowser
| QuodLibet
| Rhythmbox
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Music Library
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> Import Time
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/CBLOib29EYM|2m 41s]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/xNgg2QTr4ME|10m 2s]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/obKPmP_OhNs|2m 55s]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/_SzcEuTjxG8|5m 45s]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/8mXhP7dTa1k|23m 27s]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/inNugS-AatU|9m 40s]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://youtu.be/GpzkJjuVMoA|13m 18s]]</nowiki>
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Separate Playlist
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> Search without Playing
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Browse Albums by Artist
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> Browse Artists by Album
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Sensible Sort
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> Jump to Song
| {X}
| <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1437023|#1437023]]</nowiki>
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| <nowiki>[[http://pad.lv/1437020|#1437020]]</nowiki>
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Save Playlists
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> Internet Radio Streams
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Podcasts
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> MPRIS 2.0 Support
| (./)
| (./)
| {X}
| {X}
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> In Repository
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
| (./)
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> Toolkit
| Gtk+
| Gtk+
| Gtk+
| Gtk+
| Gtk+
| Gtk+
| Gtk+
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> Language
| ?
| Mono
| ?
| ?
| ?
| Python
| C
|}
