{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting minutes - 20070616

'''Note''': This was a 3+ hour long meeting, so feel free to take a look at the <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2007-06-16|Meeting Log]]</nowiki> for this meeting for further detail.

* Adam Miller has agreed to complete the overhaul of the Xubuntu.org website, using the Ubuntu.com drupal template, and to have it completed in time for the release of Gutsy Gibbon.  Much of the work has already been completed by TheSheep, but he is too busy to give it the attention it requires at this time.  Adam  will get the updated files and information from TheSheep, and will complete the setup of the website.  Others have offered to help Adam Miller on an as-needed basis.

* We discussed the status of the specification for the Xubuntu Documentation browser, and how the UI and some other areas of the specification still need to be better fleshed out.  Somerville32 added the specification to Launchpad, with Jim Campbell as the drafter, and Adam Miller as the implementer.  Adam will further draft the UI spec, and will add it to the launchpad spec.

* Adam Miller will arrange for an initial draft of the code of the application.  We do not plan to add search functionality for initial release of the Doc Browser.  We plan to contact TheSheep for help with drafting the UI.

* Freddy Martinez and Jim Campbell are meeting weekly to work on Xubuntu documentation, and are learning docbook-xml as they go along.  They're basing the documentation off of the Ubuntu documentation from the Feisty Fawn release, modifying it to be Xubuntu-specific and updated for the Gutsy Gibbong release.  They will start submitting patches to the Ubuntu-doc mailing list this week.  They will also provide status update to Xubuntu developers via the Xubuntu-devel mailing list.  Hopefully this will provide a morale boost, and will encourage others to do more work themselves.  :) (NOTE: IRC user "fijam" has also offered his assistance to the Xubuntu documentation project, and Jim has since been in touch with him.)

* We discussed the status of the Xubuntu developer community, and what we can do to best direct the efforts of regular contributors, and to also garner contributions from people who are not yet involved in the Xubuntu projects.  Possible approaches to this situation include:
** Encouraging bug triage from Xubuntu users and other non-developers.  One option for this is setting up Xubuntu hug days, but we could also promote and encourage triage activity through the mailings lists and the Ubuntu Planet.
** Those interested in developing can find assistance by joining the MOTU mailing list, join #ubuntu-motu, and/or finding a MOTU mentor.  Performing simple packaging tasks is a good way to get started on your way to be a MOTU, and would assist the Xubuntu project.
** Increasing developer visibility would be good for morale.  This could be done through the mailing lists by sending out a short note in regards to what you are working on.
** It would be helpful to provide bite-sized tasks for people to do as a way to get involved.  This could be done via postings on our website or our wiki pages.
** Similarly, it would be good to post some high-level goals for the next release.  (Some people are drawn in by big goals, others by smaller goals.)
** Updating our website to be less static is important in this regard - it will draw more people in to our project if they are able to see what we are working on.

* The group discussed cd-burning apps in Xubuntu, and problems that xfburn has in burning ISOs.  The group discussed alternatives to Xfburn, and their plusses and minuses.  
** Only Xfburn and Brasero are still maintained 
** We agreed to follow-up on this discussion on the mailing lists.

* Hobbsee brought up the subject of a xubuntu-restricted-extras metapackage to handle the installation of common multimedia codecs and other commonly-used nonfree software (e.g., java and mstcorefonts).  Mr_pouit started a thread about this on the xubuntu-devel mailing list later that day, and the topic is currently under discussion.
