{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for September 2009'''

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Cody regenerated the Xubuntu metapackage.
* Lionel updated xubuntu-default-settings to provide default.desktop desktop session file to correctly set system wide default session.
* Lionel uploaded a new upstream bugfix release of xfce4-volumed.
* Lionel patched xfce4-power-manager to fix a segfault in xfpm_session_set_client_id.
* Lionel fixed LP #412659 by updating the xubuntu-artwork package to increase the alternative priority of the xubuntu usplash theme so that the xubuntu theme is preferred over the ubuntu one.
* Lionel updated xubuntu-default-settings to improve integration with new gdm and readd a shortcut for xfce4-popup-menu (LP: #424282).
* Lionel fixed LP #195649 by patching exo to fix failure to eject video cd/dvd & data cd/dvd using hardware button.
* Cody added xfce4-volumed to xubuntu desktop seed.
* Cody removed thunar-tpa (trash panel applet) from default session as part of the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/xubuntu-desktop/+spec/xubuntu-karmic-session-slim-down|xubuntu-karmic-session-slim-down]]</nowiki> specification.
* SiDi patched xfce4-power-manager to use custom notification icons as part of the notify-osd spec

===== Artwork and marketing =====
* Pasi and SiDi worked with James Schriver and MadsRH to make the new GTK theme and mockups for Xsplash
* Pasi and Jim did the new documentation startpage
* Pasi worked extensively with Karmic release artwork (GDM, wallpaper and overall look)
