{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-05-23 Meeting Minutes ===

==== Old Business ====

* email the ML with proposed meeting days and times, Mon, Thurs, Fri only for days - done
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward/after natty releases
* Charlie as Project Lead will draw up a proposal to be added to the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument | Xubuntu Strategy Document]]</nowiki> for choosing a new Project Lead by community vote

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* GTK2 will be used for Oneiric Ocelot. If possible, GTK3 will not be on the Xubuntu cd.
* Xfce 4.8.2 will be included in Oneiric Ocelot.

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Alpha1 testing will begin on 2011-05-31.
** Soupermanito, beardygnome will assist in testing the Oneiric Ocelot images.
** drc will begin daily installation testing of the images for alpha1.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Canonical RT set up the staging site for wordpress. Unfortunately, this can not be used by the Xubuntu Team to test wordpress as a website.
** knome and pleia2 will work together to set up a test site for wordpress.
* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.

===== Artwork =====

* Artwork this cycle will be mainly improving greybird and the wallpaper
* Our artwork team <nowiki>[[ http:--wiki.knome.fi-shimmer:greybird | goals]]</nowiki>

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* Xubuntu roadmap for Oneiric Ocelot is at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Goals-Oneiric]]</nowiki>
* The calendar/schedule for Oneiric is at <nowiki>[[OneiricReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki>
* LightDM will replace GDM in Oneiric Ocelot

==== Any Other Business ====

* Next meeting is in one week, May 30, #xubuntu-devel, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-05-23 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* A request was made to try and hold meetings on Tuesdays.

==== Action items for the 2011-05-23 meeting ====

* Email the Mailing Lists about meeting on alternate days weekly.
** Possibility to hold at least one meeting per month on Tuesday.
* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

==== Carried Forward ====

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.
** NOTE: This will require approval of the Ubuntu Community Council.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-05-23 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** mr_pouit
** micahg
** drc
** beardygnome
** xrdodrx
** Soupermanito
** jozefk
** scott-work

http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/23/%23xubuntu-devel.html
