{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 15 Nov at 23:00 &mdash; 00:08 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2019/xubuntu-devel.2019-11-15-23.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

Agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings
==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 23:04.

==== Updates and announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and announcements" started at 23:04.

** Xubuntu 19.10 "Eoan Ermine" released on 10/17, https://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-19-10-released/
** Xubuntu 20.04 "Focal Fossa" development has started!
** 20.04 draft release schedule up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseSchedule
** 20.04 development tracker up at https://dev.xubuntu.org/
** Translation templates for xubuntu-default-settings have been updated, so check out https://translations.launchpad.net/xubuntu-default-settings/trunk/+translations and update your native language
** The Xubuntu cdimage page is now Xubuntu-branded! http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/daily-live/current/

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 23:19.

* '''Xubuntu 20.04 Planning''' (23:19)
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-f-roadmap 
** Feature definition freeze is on 11/28, which is just under 2 weeks away. Be sure to review the blueprints and make any changes needed.
* '''Xubuntu QA Discussion''' (23:39)
* '''The many hats of knome''' (23:50)

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 00:06.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 00:07.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* ochosi
** ochosi to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (96)
* ochosi (41)
* Unit193 (16)
* pleia2 (13)
* meetingology (7)
* smkellat (6)
* aaronfranke (5)
* ubottu (2)
