{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 28 Aug at 15:00 &mdash; 15:59 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-08-28-15.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 15:00.

** ''ACTION:'' skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 15:02.

** ochosi has been preparing an updated artwork package for uploading later
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing/Projects/DesktopOfTheWeek has been updated whit the first few desktops proposed
** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** Catfish 0.8.1 in last night (thanks bluesabre), dropped pidgin-microblog from the seeds since twitter is broke (thanks skellat), gtk-theme-config is on mentors awaiting sponsorship
** added clock and keyboard settings for greeter to our defaults (thanks bluesabre)
** ''ACTION:'' mr_pouit uploads the new artwork package later

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 15:13.

* '''Inclusion of Xfce 4.11 components in Xubuntu 13.10''' (15:13)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to see about 4.11 settings/display-dialog and the panel patch for gtk3 indicators in gtk2 panel
** ''ACTION:'' micahg and ochosi to work on the panel patch together
* '''Strategy Document reviewing''' (15:20)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2013-August/009312.html 
* '''Ideas for using the project money''' (15:33)
** Discussion to be continued
* '''Proposal for more structured handling of Xubuntu bugs''' (15:45)
** Currently we lack sufficient manpower to secure delegated status for "Bug Control" power
** We still have a "Xubuntu Bugs" team that is subscribed to all of our packages to get bug reports
** Members encouraged to join "Xubuntu Bugs" to watch the stream of reports and assist in triaging as they feel so moved
** Bug handling to be reassessed prior to opening of T cycle
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (15:58)
** Next meeting: Thu Sept 12, 15UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
* mr_pouit
** mr_pouit uploads the new artwork package later
* ochosi
** micahg and ochosi to work on the panel patch together
* skellat
** skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (120)
* micahg-work (42)
* skellat (32)
* GridCube (22)
* ochosi (18)
* smartboyhw (16)
* meetingology (10)
* ali1234 (5)
* elfy (4)
* lderan (2)
* Unit193 (2)
* chilicuil (1)
* alpacaherder (1)
* mr_pouit (0)
