{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2010-12-16 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* pleia2 to check on converting website to new logo and icons
* artwork will close on 2010-03-10
* Any bugs that should be fixed for 10.04.2 need to be milestoned so that they can be worked on

=== Team updates ===
==== Packaging & Development ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Natty/Xfce4.8
* Finished rebuilding all panel plugins against xfce4-panel 4.7.
* working on the exo-0.3 -> exo-1 port for a few programs
* doko fixed the powerpc FTBFS for libxfce4ui, so the powerpc stack should be buildable soon

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* We do have a few users running Natty now.
* Any bugs that should be fixed for 10.04.2 need to be milestoned so that they can be worked on

==== Website & Marketing ====

* No new business

==== Artwork ====

* ochosi has done a lot of work on greybird and faenza-xfce icons
** please take a look at them if you have time, and give some feedback
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty
 
==== Documentation ====

* as many people as possible need to review the latest docs in bzr
** lp:xubuntu-docs is the lastest branch of the documentation
* Email to the xubuntu-devel mailing lists explains how to review the docs

=== Announcements ===

* We no longer produce the PS3 images for Natty
* Thunderbird 3.1.7 is out.
* There is no meeting next week, 2010-12-23, because of the holidays
  
=== Any Other Business ===

* We do follow the IRC guidelines at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IRC/Guidelines in our channels
** We give them all the help we can, including exact references to look at
* Next meeting is in two weeks, December 30, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-12-16 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Action items for the 2011-01-06 meeting ===

* Follow up on the 10.04.2 image update - micahg
* pleia2 to check on converting website to new logo and icons - carried forward

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.
