{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 03 Mar at 17:00 &mdash; 17:57 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-03-03-17.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings#Agenda 
==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 17:01.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2016-March/011059.html 

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 17:03.

** Beta 1 happened http://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-16-04-lts-beta-1/
** knome has been working on the article series for the website: http://wiki.xubuntu.org/website/series

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 17:13.

* '''The installer slideshow''' (17:13)
* '''Gnome-software update''' (17:26)
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-software 

==== Any other business ====
The discussion about "Any other business" started at 17:48.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2016-February/011045.html 
** Strategy Document rewrite for "Xubuntu users" (and a bit more)
** ''LINK:'' http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~knome/xubuntu-docs/xsd-community-updates-feb2016/revision/531 
** ''Vote:'' Approve Strategy Document rewrite for "Xubuntu users" (and a bit more) (+1) or disapprove text (-1) (Carried)

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 17:56.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-03-03-17.00.log.html#195 Approve Strategy Document rewrite for "Xubuntu users" (and a bit more) (+1) or disapprove text (-1)]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters krytarik, pleia2, flocculant, knome

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (78)
* pleia2 (65)
* knome (57)
* meetingology (12)
* Nairwolf (7)
* dkessel (1)
* krytarik (1)
* slickymasterWork (1)
* bluesabre (1)
