{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===

This page lists the different Xubuntu documentation topics and the person who is assigned to complete each topic for the current release cycle.  This is meant to show the progress of the documentation work for the Hardy release cycle as well help track topics and see contributor's progress.

If you would like to take on one of the unassigned topics just add your name in the appropriate cell then please be sure to send an email to the ubuntu-doc mailing list to inform people of the change. If there is a topic that you would like to contribute to that has already been assigned, contact the person assigned to the topic or send an email to the list.

=== Status ===

Please note the status of each particular topic as you work on it.   If you have started work on a topic, please list it's status as "In Progress," and include an approximate "percent completed." Please try to keep this relatively up-to-date so that others can tell where their efforts are best spent.

A completed topic (with all patches applied) can be marked as "Completed," or \o/.

To indicate your progress on a topic, please use the following background color for a topic:

<pre>
New / Untouched:  Blank
To Do (assigned to you but no progress): yellow
In Progress: lightgreen
Needs Review: lightblue
Reviewed / Completed: gray
</pre>

Deadlines are estimates and non-binding as of now, but please expect to complete one topic per week. The more we can get done early in the release cycle the better the docs will end up being. There is a great deal of work to do even before Hardy gets well under way.

There are a number of tasks to be completed to finish porting the Ubuntu docs to Xubuntu. If you find that a topic has "cleanup" work that needs to be done please place a note in its row.

=== Topics ===

To use colors, please add the following line to a topic: <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> but change the color to your status

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Topic Name'''
| '''Assignee'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Deadline / Expected Completion'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| about
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> about-xubuntu
| Eddie Martinez
| 
| Dec. 2007?
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> add-applications
| Eddie Martinez
| 
| Dec. 2007
| 
|-
| administrative
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> config-desktop
| <nowiki>[[j1mc]]</nowiki>
| working on it
| 
| January 2008
| 
|-
| desktopguide
| 
| 
| 
| desktopguide is obsolete: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2007-July/008698.html
|-
| files-and-docs
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| images
| 
| 
| 
| These are just a collection of the screenshots that are used in the docs.  Need to make sure they're up to date.
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: yellow;"> index.xml
| all
| 
| 
| index.xml is tricky. Please have a look at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2007-July/008697.html
|-
| internet
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: yellow;"> libs
| all
| 
| 
| 
|-
| music video photos
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| new to Xubuntu
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| office
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> printing
| <nowiki>[[j1mc]]</nowiki>
| Pending
| January 2008
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: gray;"> switching
| <nowiki>[[j1mc]]</nowiki>
| In Progress
| 
| could be updated again if other areas get cleaned up first.
|-
| windows
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| xubuntu-admon
| 
| 
| 
| This section just contains the graphical symbols and the like.  It shouldn't have to change.
|}

==== Sections to be imported from Ubuntu ====

Changes to the following topics can probably be easily imported from Ubuntu. However, it's important that when we pull in changes from Ubuntu we make sure they apply to Xubuntu and edit them accordingly.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Topic Name'''
| '''Assignee'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Deadline / Expected Completion'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> basic-commands
| Eddie Martinez
| 
| Dec. 2007
| Help would be appreciated
|-
| keeping-safe
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| advanced-topics
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| programming
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: lightgreen;"> debian
| <nowiki>[[j1mc]]</nowiki>
| Pending
| Prior to string freeze
| 
|}

=== Miscellaneous ===

Some of these topics are much easier than others. Several topics can be done in one week while other topics may take longer. Send mail to the ubuntu-doc mailing list for guidance or check IRC #ubuntu-doc on Freenode.

=== General Notes ===

I think we should think about restructuring these to eliminate some of the overlap. For instance: files-and-docs ends up being largely a rehashing of office. If we want a section for new users on what they should use to open various files it should be in switching. Just my $0.02 -George
