{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 28 Nov at 16:00 &mdash; 16:45 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-11-28-16.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 16:01.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (16:01)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk to barry about python2.7/3 situation
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to upload whiskermenu to xfce PPAs
** Done, whiskermenu is in the archive for trusty.
* '''Strategy Document reviewing''' (16:04)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2013-November/009413.html 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Processes 
** ''Vote:'' Approve proposed Strategy Document (+1) or not (-1); members of -team can vote (Carried)
** motion not carried. one more week to review.
* '''Something about wallpapers''' (16:19)
** The wallpaper contest has been running for a short while, but we already have quite a few accepted submissions:
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Trusty/CommunityWallpapers/Accepted 
** ''ACTION:'' knome and pleia2 to give the wallpaper contest some publicity in social media again
* '''Strategy Document reviewing''' (16:26)
** ''Vote:'' Approve the proposed changes to the Strategy Document (+1) or not (-1, please argument) (Carried)

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 16:31.

** ochosi and knome have been working with the wallpaper contest
** knome and Unit193 have been looking at docs translations
** whiskermenu is backported for P, Q, R, and S in ppa:skellat/tests for those who wish to try it
** pleia2 completed triaging website bugs this week
** elfy has been working with organizing QA for the T cycle
** whiskermenu is backported in the Xfce 4.10 PPA
** pleia2 put out a call for VM-based tests to determine our actual minimum requirements
** Xfce 4.10 PPA backport was done by mr_pouit
** you can translate the docs at: https://translations.launchpad.net/xubuntu-docs (note that several changes and additions are going to land later this cycle)
** Out of vUDS-1311, we may have the opportunity to ask local communities to "adopt a package" for work or testing during this cycle.  LoCo Council hasn't fully set this up yet, though.
** after discussion with ochosi, we dropped light-locker and added xfdesktop to the documentation blueprint

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 16:39.

* '''There is a new Launchpad team ~xubuntu-qa''' (16:40)
** this team has currently only a social meaning, being the subteam from which people who contributed to QA can ultimately be approved to -team (per the SD)
** if you think you should be a member in this (moderated) team, poke elfy.

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 16:41.

* '''Meeting time reviewing''' (16:41)
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (16:45)
** Next meeting: Thu 5 Nov, 19UTC

=== Vote results ===

* Approve the proposed changes to the Strategy Document (+1) or not (-1, please argument)
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/1)

=== Action items, by person ===
* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome and pleia2 to give the wallpaper contest some publicity in social media again
* micahg
** micahg to talk to barry about python2.7/3 situation
** micahg to upload whiskermenu to xfce PPAs
* pleia2
** knome and pleia2 to give the wallpaper contest some publicity in social media again

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (104)
* meetingology (32)
* ochosi (23)
* micahg (22)
* GridCube (19)
* skellat (18)
* pleia2 (15)
* jjfrv8 (7)
* ali1234 (1)
* lderan (1)
* brainwash (1)
