{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2010-12-02 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* No old business to be discussed

=== Team Reports ===
==== Technical ====

* Uploaded new releases of xfce4-notifyd, xfce4-appfinder, xfwm4, ristretto, xfce4-dev-tools, xfce4-volumed.
* will upload xfce4-panel after the release of alpha 1.
 

==== Bugs and Testing ====

* Alpha1 is looking good.
* It should get out today or, at the latest, tomorrow

==== Artwork ====
* Ochosi is currently reworking the xubuntu gtk-theme (aka bluebird), feel free to check it out @ http://shimmerproject.org/hg/bluebird-colors > greybird. 
** Ochosi is particularily interested in  
** panel
** window-switcher (alt-tab)
** scrollbars
* Ochosi is also working on an xfce-complete version of faenza (based on 0.7) which you can check out here: http://shimmerproject.org/hg/faenza-xfce
* We have some submissions already for new wallpaper
* thorwil wrote a script that produces a "screenshot" with transparent desktop so you get an image with panels, icons, any window that was up that can be overlayed on wallpaper proposals
** We will need screenshots that show the xubuntu theme
* thorwil will contact ochosi about the theme and icons

=== Announcements ===
* Alpha1 will not have powerpc or ps3 images
  
=== Governance Discussion ===

* Nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead are due to the Community Council by December 15
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2010-November/007614.html

=== Any Other Business ===
* mr pouit will email the xubuntu-devel mailing list about switching from notify-osd to xfce4-notifyd
* Next meeting is Thursday, 8 Dec, same place, 19:00 UTC. 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-12-02 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

==== Action items for the next meeting ====

* Find out more information about LightDM
* follow up with xfce devs on display managers
** http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-August/028200.html
