{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-desktop-goals
* '''Created''': 2006-06-11 JaniMonoses
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

UI improvements in the Xubuntu Desktop we may do for Edgy.

=== Rationale ===

Make Xubuntu's UI simpler more intuitive and more efficient

=== Use cases ===

Ubuntu users try out Xubuntu and while they appreciate the speed they find the UI cluttered and way less
polished than Gnome's

Windows users try out Xubuntu and find that the handling of desktop icons needs some more love

=== Scope ===

Generic changes to the core Xfce apps to make them friendlier

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

Some ideas:

* Make apps/places/system menu
* Free-moving of panel plugins like in gnome.
* DnD from menu to panel
* Simplify menu layout
* Support laptop keys for mixer/sleep via HAL
* Thunar features (samba browsing, trash support)
* Make xfdesktop XDG compliant

These need to be done preferably against upstream code and pushed there. They are in feature freeze though so we may only have some ubuntu specific patches.

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

* If freely movable panel applets are implemented there's a good chance the panel config file format is going to
be incompatible with the current one, because of the need to store applet positions.

=== Outstanding issues ===

* None of this is written yet and it takes quite some resources to do without Xfce upstream working on it too.
We should ask what users would like most and prioritize accordingly.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

We went over these issues and decided to present them to Xfce upstream and ask their opinion on how and which of them could be best implemented in the edgy timeframe, with little duplication on the two projects sides and so that
it benefits Xfce in general as well.

----
CategorySpec
