{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 22 Aug at 14:59 &mdash; 15:55 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-08-22-14.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 14:59.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (14:59)
** ''ACTION:'' skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 15:00.

** unfortunately, due to various obstacles, the docs SRU is not going to make it to .3, but we will upload it to -updates ASAP (and eventually, it'll be in .4)
** Desktop of the week will have a list ready for later today of the first few images proposed for the project, we hope to have them posted an anounced for the first days of the next week
** ''ACTION:'' knome will prepare the website side for desktop of the week -gallery later this week

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 15:03.

** knome has received money from the linuxidentity magazine articles. the project has now about 250 euros to spend.

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 15:05.

* '''Mir decisions''' (15:05)
** ''Vote:'' Should we wait for improvements landing to XMir later (but before the FF)? (+1 for wait, -1 for not wait) (Denied)
** ''Vote:'' Include (+1) or not include (-1) Mir in Xubuntu 13.10? (Denied)
* '''Proposal for more structured handling of Xubuntu bugs''' (15:38)
* '''Inclusion of Xfce 4.11 components in Xubuntu 13.10?''' (15:39)
** xfce4-settings to bring in improved multi-monitor support along with a nice display dialog
** xfdekstop to bring improvements in settings dialog and better workspace support
** Several options to enable GTK3 indicators for the panel
** ''ACTION:'' knome to be in touch with developers in cherry-picking xfce4-settings and xfdesktop from 4.11 to 13.10
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to write instructions on testing panel with gtk3 indicators enabled
* '''Virtual Ubuntu Developer Summit August 2013 Participation?''' (15:51)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send information about vUDS participation/sessions to ML later this week
* '''Status Report on Strategy Document revisions''' (15:52)
** TODO
** ''ACTION:'' knome will send drafts of changes to the ML later this month
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (15:53)
** Next meeting: 28 Aug at 15UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome will prepare the website side for desktop of the week -gallery later this week
** knome to be in touch with developers in cherry-picking xfce4-settings and xfdesktop from 4.11 to 13.10
** knome to send information about vUDS participation/sessions to ML later this week
** knome will send drafts of changes to the ML later this month
* ochosi
** ochosi to write instructions on testing panel with gtk3 indicators enabled
* skellat
** skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (112)
* meetingology (34)
* ochosi (28)
* olli (23)
* GridCube (23)
* pleia2 (22)
* smartboyhw (18)
* tvoss_ (7)
* skellat (4)
* lderan (4)
* cub (3)
* jjfrv8 (2)
* xnox (1)
* OvenWerks (1)
* rowboatnick (1)
* bluesabre (0)
* mr_pouit (0)
* elfy (0)
* Unit193 (0)
* micahg (0)
