{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for August, 2010'''

===== Bug Triage =====

* Our bug triage efforts are paying off for Xubuntu. Many bugs were squashed this past month.
 

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* We tested Maverick Meerkat Alpha3 with good results.
* Uploaded new bugfix releases of Goffice (0.8.8) and Gnumeric (1.10.8) in Maverick Meerkat.
* XRandR 1.2 support (multiple layouts, rotations, reflections, etc.) added to Xfce4-display-settings, to be released with Xfce 4.8, thanks to the work of Lionel Le Folgoc (mr_pouit).
* Development packages of Xfce 4.7.x (future 4.8) updated in Xubuntu developers' PPA. Feel free to test them and report bugs on http://bugzilla.xfce.org to make Xfce 4.8 rock! 

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Xubuntu needs a new Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Artwork =====

* Xubuntu wants your artwork! We need a countdown image and timer for Maverick. 
* We still need a good plymouth theme. 
* Selected the artwork for Maverick. Everyone that submitted artwork deserves a huge thank you.
* Xubuntu 10.10 / Balls/Curve will be the new wallpaper for Xubuntu 10.10.
* A new GTK theme from <nowiki>[[http://shimmerproject.org/|Shimmer Project]]</nowiki> called <nowiki>[[http://shimmerproject.org/projects/bluebird|Bluebird]]</nowiki> was also chosen by the team.

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to keep word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a new Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com
