{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for January 2009'''

===== Artwork =====

* No activity.

===== Bug Triage =====

* Bug triage proceeding at a steady pace. Many bugs were triaged this month.
* A high number of bugs were reported upstream.
* New pages for reporting bugs to Xfce-Bugzilla, AbiWord, and Listen were added to "<nowiki>[[Bugs-Upstream|Bugs-Upstream]]</nowiki>".

===== Community =====

* Following the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Grow the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki> -specification.

===== Documentation =====

* Jim, Pasi, and Jannis are brainstorming an idea to work closely with upstream and other distributions to rewrite the upstream documentation. 

===== Marketing =====

* Following the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Grow the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki> -specification.
* Especially tried to get new contributors to the Marketing Team with varying results - though still no new members.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Alpha 3 released on January 15th.
* Charlie (charlie-tca) has re-written the wiki test pages and they are now usable for testing.
* Lionel (mr_pouit) synced a new version of '''Sion''' from Debian.
* Mario Limonciello (superm1) diagnosed and fixed an issue with gnome-keyring-daemon resulting in the desktop startup not completing. Instead of xfce4-session starting gnome-keyring-daemon (when "Launch gnome services on startup" are enabled), leave it to the pam module.
* A new version of '''Catfish''' was synced from Debian.
* Lionel (mr_pouit) uploaded a new version of '''Ristretto''' (0.0.21)
* Lionel (mr_pouit) sponsored Bhavani Shankar in uploading a new upstream version of '''xfce4-smartpm-plugin''' (0.4.0).
* Lionel (mr_pouit) fixed broken translations in '''xfce4-session''', closing LP: #313688
* Lionel (mr_pouit) uploaded a new version of '''xfce4-clipman-plugin''', 0.9.0
