{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 09 Sep at 22:00 &mdash; 22:53 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-09-09-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 22:03.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:05.

** The Xubuntu council is Sean Davis (bluesabre) - chair, Pasi Lallinaho (knome) and Simon SteinbeiÃŸ (ochosi)
** UIFE this week
** Doc String Freeze next week
** Final Beta (which Xubuntu is participating in) on September 22nd, freeze on September 19
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to look at docs and make sure everything is up-to-date
** ''ACTION:'' knome to look at installer slideshow and make sure everyting is up-to-date
** ''ACTION:'' knome updates the contributor docs and pushes changes live

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:13.

* '''Thunar''' (22:14)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to prepare testing of other file manager options throughout the Z cycle
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre and Unit193 to write a report of the state of Thunar (eg. which patches we carry and what they should do) and make sure all of them are in a PPA
* '''Other Topics''' (22:33)

==== Schedule Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule Next Meeting" started at 22:53.

** knome to schedule next meeting
** ''ACTION:'' knome to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to prepare testing of other file manager options throughout the Z cycle
** bluesabre and Unit193 to write a report of the state of Thunar (eg. which patches we carry and what they should do) and make sure all of them are in a PPA
* flocculant
** flocculant to look at docs and make sure everything is up-to-date
* knome
** knome to look at installer slideshow and make sure everyting is up-to-date
** knome updates the contributor docs and pushes changes live
** knome to schedule next meeting
* Unit193
** bluesabre and Unit193 to write a report of the state of Thunar (eg. which patches we carry and what they should do) and make sure all of them are in a PPA

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (94)
* bluesabre (94)
* knome (77)
* ochosi (37)
* meetingology (19)
* pleia2 (4)
* Unit193 (3)
* ubottu (1)
