{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': xubuntu-docs
* '''Contributors:''' CodySomerville

=== Summary ===

Keeping the Xubuntu documentation updated is important. Unfortunately, we didn't do so great for Edgy documentation (ie. we didn't update it at all). This specification will look at what should be updated/changed in the Xubuntu desktop guide for Xubuntu 7.04, the Feisty Fawn.

=== Rationale ===

Documentation is understood to be important. Documentation improves the user experience by providing information that they may be needed to accomplish a desired or required tasked correctly. 

=== Use cases ===

* Sally just installed Xubuntu but can't figure out how to connect to the internet. After referring to the desktop guide, she successfully connects to the internet.
* John has never been exposed to Open Source Software before and isn't sure which applications he should use to do things such as listen to music or to develop software. After referring to the Xubuntu desktop guide, John is able to install an IDE to program with and is not only able to find an application to which to play his music but also learns how to install codecs so that he can listen to all his favorite MP3's.
* Jane is an experienced gnome user but has decided to try out Xubuntu with the xfce4 desktop. One of the first things she would like to do is to customize the look and feel. After referring to the desktop guide, Jane was able to install new themes, enable the xfce4 compositor, and configure her panels.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

==== Topic Based Help ====

To conform with the Ubuntu Documentation Topic Based Help specification, I propose the following structure for the Xubuntu Desktop Guide.

<pre>

Introduction
    About this guide
    Forward
    What is Xubuntu?
    Your desktop
    New to Linux
    Words you should know
    
Administration
    Introduction to Linux System Administration
    Adding, Removing, and Updating Software
        Introduction to packages
        Software repositories
        The package manager
        Adding/Removing applications
        Updating your software
        Manually installing a package
        Managing packages from the command line
    Monitoring your system
    Configuring time and date
    Managing Users and Groups
    Boot manager
    Configuring logins
    Managing services
    Configuring your hardware
    Language support
    Printing
    Backing up your files
    Partitions
    
Desktop
    Desktop settings
        Your desktop
        Display settings
        User interface settings
        Window manager settings
        Workspace settings
        Sessions  
    Keyboard settings
    Mouse settings
    Mixer settings
    Calendar settings   
    Autostarted applications
    Splash screen settings
    Screensaver
    Preferred applications
    Panels
    
Common Tasks
    Finding the right application
    Browsing your system
    Archives
    Editing files
    Dictionary
    Calculator
    Taking screenshots 
    
Internet
    Connecting to the internet
    Web browsing
    E-mail
    Instant Messaging
    News readers
    File sharing
    Networking
    Security
    
Office
    Word processor
    Spreadsheets
    Presentations & Slideshows
    Account & Finances
    Desktop publishing
    Databases
    
Graphics & Photos
    Viewing & Editing images
    Digital cameras
    Vector graphics
    3D modelling
    Scanners
    
Multimedia
    Playing music & videos
    Editing music & videos
    Burning CDs
    Portable music devices
    
Games
    Gaming on Linux
    Popular games
    Windows games
    
Programming & Development
    Getting started
    Installing the required software
    Learning how-to program

Conclusion
    Frequently Asked Questions
    Getting more help
    Getting involved
</pre>

'''Note:''' Large portions of the ''Administrating your system'' chapter most likely will be deferred for Feisty+1.

==== Look and Feel ====

The look and feel of the Xubuntu documentation should be updated to be more aligned with the new Xubuntu look and feel.

=== Implementation ===

Writers are required to help make this a possibility. Members of the Xubuntu community will be encouraged to get involved by submitting patches and/or content. A orientation day will be organized to help make getting involved easier.

Currently there are two members of the Xubuntu community who have Ubuntu Documentation SVN commit access - CodySomerville and Luzius Thoeny. We will coordinate the acceptance of patches to the Xubuntu documentation.

=== Unresolved issues ===

* More man power needed
* More work needed on structure

=== Discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
