{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-08-14 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - In-work
** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HyhsMPDyyN-mRWRujfZX3JuKX9aWFQPWsxMEiJX99gQ/edit?hl=es

* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - In-work
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS

==== Team updates ====
===== Packaging & Development =====

* last week we got a few updates from Debian
* pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* uploaded a new xubuntu settings package
* Bug #799754 Please let vendors easily provide their own config  - fixed?
* Bug #799514 xubuntu-restricted-extras doesn't contain Java - non-default repository
** openjdk could be added instead of SunJava
* Bug #789333 users-admin crashes on start because of mixed GTK2 and 3 symbols - we are the fix team if we plan to use this for the gui settings.
** remove the dependency on the ported to GTK3 libraries, we'd have to drop it in favor of something else (if it exists)
** or upload another copy of the GTK2 versions of those libs

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Images were broken all week again.
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

===== Website & Marketing =====

* No update

===== Artwork =====

* madnick is working on both plymouth and lightdm themes for Xubuntu
** http://www.madnick.se/~madnick/xubuntu
** Please contact charlie-tca or madnick in #xubuntu-devel to help test this

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-08-22 at 19:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** 11.10 FeatureFreeze : In effect as of August 11, 2011 at 21:00 UTC
** 11.10 BetaFreeze: Aug 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC
** User Interface Freeze : August 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
** UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.
** UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

==== Any Other Business ====

* Blueprints
* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-08-14 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

* One weeks left for current review of revision to Strategy Document concerning electing a Project Lead. email sent to both ML for review.

==== Action items ====

* micahg will set up meeting with derivatives to decide what to do with bug 789333
* charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-08-14 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/08/14/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Minutes: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-08-14-22.02.moin.txt

=== People present (lines said) ===

* charlie-tca (124)
* madnick (30)
* micahg (22)
* meetingology (11)
* ubottu (6)
* ChristopherNG (5)
* astraljava (2)
* GridCube (2)

=== Full Log ===

 22:02:21 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting

 22:02:21 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Aug 14 22:02:21 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 22:02:21 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 22:02:37 <charlie-tca> #link The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 22:02:46 <charlie-tca> I hope that works, anyway

 22:03:16 <charlie-tca> * Old business

 22:03:18 <charlie-tca> * Team updates

 22:03:20 <charlie-tca> * Packaging & Development

 22:03:22 <charlie-tca> * Bug Triage & Testing

 22:03:24 <charlie-tca> * Website & Marketing

 22:03:26 <charlie-tca> * Artwork

 22:03:28 <charlie-tca> * Documentation

 22:03:30 <charlie-tca> * Announcements

 22:03:32 <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

 22:03:34 <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

 22:03:36 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 22:04:03 <charlie-tca> #topic Old business

 22:04:03 <meetingology> TOPIC: Old business

 22:04:07 <charlie-tca> * GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - In-work

 22:04:14 <charlie-tca> GridCube: update on this?

 22:04:35 <micahg> [15:49] <GridCube> https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HyhsMPDyyN-mRWRujfZX3JuKX9aWFQPWsxMEiJX99gQ/edit?hl=es

 22:05:15 <charlie-tca> Very nice! Thanks for working on those, GridCube

 22:05:23 <charlie-tca> Thank you for the link, micahg

 22:05:27 <charlie-tca> * madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - In-work

 22:05:28 <GridCube> :) ok

 22:05:35 <charlie-tca> madnick: update?

 22:05:36 <GridCube> i meant, you are welcome

 22:05:54 <madnick> Well

 22:05:54 <charlie-tca> If you haven't heard yet, today's images are the ones to grab to see how lightdm is working for us

 22:06:30 <madnick> Im not sure, because you told me that we should pretty much use the unity greeter

 22:06:33 <charlie-tca> We no longer have unity-greeter, but are using lightdm-gtk-greeter today

 22:06:47 <ChristopherNG> hello

 22:06:52 <charlie-tca> oh, confusion then?

 22:06:57 <charlie-tca> hello, ChristopherNG

 22:07:21 <madnick> Well, the confusing is, should i modify that

 22:07:30 <madnick> Or should I wait for final words :)

 22:07:31 <charlie-tca> madnick: if it is easier to take unity-greeter and rebuild it for us, you can do that. If it is easier to write your own, that is fine too

 22:07:54 <charlie-tca> I leave it up to you. I will be happy with either solution.

 22:08:08 <charlie-tca> I just don't want a stupid gear to click for sessions

 22:08:23 <madnick> Well, I can do either, I just need a good theme, Im working on a draft, but i really like knome or oschi to tell me where they stand on the matter

 22:09:08 <madnick> I know knome wanted to center the unity greeters login box

 22:09:29 <madnick> And I know you wanted to move / fix the session stuff

 22:09:43 <charlie-tca> Okay. That will be fine. Seeing that we just got something to work with, we should be able to get freeze exceptions to get it in, if we really need them.

 22:10:12 <madnick> Okay :)

 22:10:14 <madnick> ..

 22:10:19 <charlie-tca> What do you think would be best? offset or centered?

 22:10:47 <madnick> Im not sure, I like the current style of it

 22:10:51 <madnick> The positions*

 22:11:13 <micahg> UI freeze is in a week and a half

 22:11:14 <charlie-tca> Then you can put them there. We can change it if the users hate it for the next release.

 22:11:47 <madnick> Okay, ill set that up in the week that follows

 22:11:56 <charlie-tca> Press on, put the list where you like it, but give me a sessions text please.

 22:12:42 <charlie-tca> If knome don't like it, well, we can work with him on that. But I think you have a good grasp on it, and will let you build it for this release.

 22:13:05 <charlie-tca> Go for it, please

 22:13:11 <madnick> okay, thanks :)

 22:13:25 <charlie-tca> Any other comments or questions on old business?

 22:13:33 <ChristopherNG> Hello, I hate to say something because im very new here, I was actually at the last meeting but remained silent.

 22:13:52 <charlie-tca> go ahead

 22:13:57 <ChristopherNG> I would like to confirm if xubuntu has an "add monitor" button like ubuntu and if not will it ever add one?

 22:14:17 <charlie-tca> where would it be?

 22:14:24 <ChristopherNG> display settings

 22:14:33 <ChristopherNG> i see it in ubuntu, never seen it for xubuntu

 22:14:43 <charlie-tca> Never seen it, maybe it is something from gnome instead of gtk

 22:15:03 <charlie-tca> We will not have one unless Xfce adds one to the settings panel

 22:15:35 <charlie-tca> ..

 22:15:48 <charlie-tca> #topic === Team updates ===

 22:15:48 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Team updates ===

 22:16:10 <charlie-tca> #topic ==== Packaging & Development ====

 22:16:10 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Packaging & Development ====

 22:16:23 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Your turn, please

 22:17:14 <charlie-tca> micahg: Got an update?

 22:17:31 <micahg> last week we got a few updates from Debian

 22:17:43 <micahg> mr_pouit uploaded a new xubuntu settings package

 22:18:00 <micahg> we still have a couple of transitions to do (dh_python2 and libssl)

 22:18:18 <charlie-tca> We have pastebinit seeded, right?

 22:18:24 <micahg> yep

 22:18:41 <charlie-tca> and the big questions, a few bugs still to work on:

 22:18:44 <micahg> we're at 700MB onthe i386 live ISO ATM

 22:18:48 <charlie-tca> Bug #799754 Please let vendors easily provide their own config

 22:18:50 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 799754 in lightdm (Ubuntu) "Please let vendors easily provide their own config" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/799754

 22:18:55 <charlie-tca> Is this fixed for us now?

 22:19:10 <micahg> idk

 22:19:22 <charlie-tca> Bug #799514 xubuntu-restricted-extras doesn't contain Java - non-default repository

 22:19:24 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 799514 in ubuntu-restricted-extras (Ubuntu) "xubuntu-restricted-extras doesn't contain Java" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/799514

 22:19:46 <charlie-tca> java is part of partners now, I don't know if we can add it to the package

 22:19:58 <charlie-tca> since partners is not enabled by default

 22:20:13 <micahg> so, there are 2 parts, right, adding sun-java is complicated for that reason

 22:20:21 <charlie-tca> right

 22:20:22 <micahg> openjdk is in there right now though

 22:20:27 <charlie-tca> yes

 22:20:34 <micahg> Ubuntu can't seed openjdk due to space

 22:20:39 <charlie-tca> So we should be able to sign that bug off with that

 22:21:17 <charlie-tca> We are close on space again. 386 desktop is now 700mb

 22:21:34 <micahg> charlie-tca: well, in theory, I guess we could at least suggest a partner package in xubuntu-restricted-extras, I didn't ask about that specifically

 22:22:13 <charlie-tca> If partner is not turned on by default, the user will have to specifically add it or we will get a broken package report, won't we?

 22:22:51 <micahg> hmm, I don't think so, on a suggests it for sure won't be a problem, gmusicbrowser suggests a package we dropped from the archive

 22:23:01 <charlie-tca> wait, if we provide openjdk, we don't need to provide sun java also

 22:23:14 <madnick> \o

 22:23:32 <charlie-tca> We give the user one of those, not both

 22:23:37 <charlie-tca> go ahead, madnick

 22:23:40 <madnick> openjdk cannot really measure with sun-java

 22:23:51 <micahg> well, openjdk is already in the restricted-addons package, the question was to actually see it or not, the reporter thought that sun-java made more sense in a restricted addons metapakcage

 22:23:59 <micahg> s/see/seed/

 22:24:00 <charlie-tca> but it is considered a valid open source replacement

 22:24:35 <charlie-tca> micahg: that is wishlist then. I don't think we should seed sun java.

 22:24:58 <micahg> no, we wouldn't seed sun-java, we could seed openjdk if we had the space and desire to though

 22:25:31 <charlie-tca> Yes, let's get things settled down, and see if that is possible.

 22:25:45 <charlie-tca> If we don't get it for Oneiric, that's not a problem, though.

 22:26:24 <charlie-tca> and, my last bug:

 22:26:26 <charlie-tca> Bug #789333 users-admin crashes on start because of mixed GTK2 and 3 symbols - we are the fix team if we plan to use this for the gui settings.

 22:26:28 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 789333 in gnome-system-tools (Ubuntu) "users-admin crashes on start because of mixed GTK2 and 3 symbols" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/789333

 22:26:45 <charlie-tca> If we aren't fixing this, we need to remove menu item

 22:27:25 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: any comment on this?

 22:27:51 <micahg> well, if we can't remove the dependency on the ported to GTK3 libraries, we'd have to drop it in favor of something else (if it exists)

 22:27:58 <charlie-tca> yup

 22:28:12 <micahg> or upload another copy of the GTK2 versions of those libs

 22:28:19 <charlie-tca> If nothing else exists, then users will have to use the CLI

 22:29:11 <charlie-tca> Any other comments or questions for Development?

 22:29:12 <micahg> mythbuntu, ubuntustudio, and lubuntu are all in the same boat, we should probably have a collective meeting about it

 22:29:57 <charlie-tca> Good idea, but that takes you and mr_pouit, right?

 22:30:27 * astraljava would probably attend as well

 22:30:31 <micahg> + gilir, superm1, scottl

 22:30:39 <charlie-tca> oh, and let's not forget, astraljava would like to help with development too

 22:31:18 <charlie-tca> Okay, who is going to set that up?

 22:32:02 <micahg> hmm, I probably should I guess

 22:32:51 <charlie-tca> [ACTION] micahg will set up meeting with derivatives to decide what to do with bug 789333

 22:32:51 * meetingology micahg will set up meeting with derivatives to decide what to do with bug 789333

 22:32:53 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 789333 in gnome-system-tools (Ubuntu) "users-admin crashes on start because of mixed GTK2 and 3 symbols" [Medium,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/789333

 22:33:13 <charlie-tca> Okay, include astraljava

 22:33:44 <charlie-tca> #topic ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 22:33:44 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 22:33:49 <charlie-tca> We got working images!

 22:34:05 <charlie-tca> Very hard to test things when we don't get images all week

 22:34:16 <charlie-tca> today's images appear to be working fully.

 22:34:50 <charlie-tca> Any body that can test these this next week, please do so. We need to find out now what is working and what is broken.

 22:35:05 <charlie-tca> madnick: is plymouth ready to add to the images?

 22:35:16 <madnick> charlie-tca: yes and no:

 22:35:45 <madnick> oschi did not like it 100% knome said he'd think of something, but i have not recvied any word on it

 22:35:55 <charlie-tca> okay

 22:36:05 <charlie-tca> We got to have that next week

 22:36:34 <charlie-tca> I can't throw a new plymouth out for final, and then find out it don't work for most users

 22:36:37 <madnick> perhaps we could get people to look into what they think

 22:36:52 <madnick> Oh, it works technically

 22:36:59 <madnick> Its artistically they dont like it

 22:37:18 <madnick> well, "Not like", they wanted to change the progress bar

 22:37:34 <charlie-tca> Well, I would lean more to what ochosi thought at this point.

 22:37:48 <madnick> Problem is that ochosi is away

 22:38:27 <charlie-tca> okay, let's wait for them to do something. If we don't get them to decide, though, it may wind up waiting for the next release.

 22:39:00 <madnick> Okay, it be too bad, because its just a little detail :(

 22:39:22 <charlie-tca> yes, but a little detail is holding it up for at least two weeks already, right?

 22:39:32 <madnick> Yes, unfortunetly

 22:39:50 <charlie-tca> I still can't get it to work here, except for shutdown

 22:40:22 <madnick> Well, that is a plymouth problem, in that plymouth application itself, not sure if there is anything to do about that

 22:40:54 <madnick> The script I wrote works on all machines that usually get a splash

 22:41:25 <madnick> We are several versions behind on plymouth also

 22:41:48 <charlie-tca> !info plymouth

 22:41:52 <ubottu> plymouth (source: plymouth): graphical boot animation and logger - main package. In component main, is required. Version 0.8.2-2ubuntu23 (natty), package size 110 kB, installed size 476 kB

 22:42:10 <charlie-tca> !info plymouth oneiric

 22:42:13 <ubottu> plymouth (source: plymouth): graphical boot animation and logger - main package. In component main, is required. Version 0.8.2-2ubuntu25 (oneiric), package size 119 kB, installed size 500 kB

 22:42:32 <charlie-tca> Those aren't the latest, huh?

 22:42:46 <charlie-tca> 0.8.2

 22:43:18 <madnick> Hm

 22:43:22 <madnick> Now Im unsure about that

 22:43:29 <charlie-tca> Okay, try and get those two artists to give you something. I need this plymouth package ready by the next meeting

 22:44:00 <madnick> okay

 22:44:01 <charlie-tca> I think ochosi is back Monday, but I am unsure

 22:44:50 <charlie-tca> Does anyone besides me find the bug tracker at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot handy?

 22:45:05 <charlie-tca> I seem to find myself looking at that daily

 22:45:39 <astraljava> Looks handy indeed. Just didn't know about it until now.

 22:45:41 <charlie-tca> #topic ==== Website & Marketing ====

 22:45:41 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Website & Marketing ====

 22:45:50 <charlie-tca> pleia2, knome : any update?

 22:46:49 <charlie-tca> #topic === Announcements ===

 22:46:49 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Announcements ===

 22:46:51 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-08-22 at 19:00 UTC

 22:46:53 <charlie-tca> * Important dates coming up:

 22:46:55 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 FeatureFreeze : In effect as of August 11, 2011 at 21:00 UTC

 22:46:57 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 BetaFreeze: Aug 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC

 22:46:59 <charlie-tca> * User Interface Freeze : August 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC

 22:47:01 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 22:47:03 <charlie-tca> * UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.

 22:47:05 <charlie-tca> * UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

 22:47:09 <charlie-tca> Thik I covered all the important ones there

 22:47:18 <charlie-tca> s/thik/think

 22:47:50 <charlie-tca> #topic === Xubuntu Governance ===

 22:47:50 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Xubuntu Governance ===

 22:47:53 <charlie-tca> === Xubuntu Governance ===

 22:48:13 <charlie-tca> * The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

 22:48:48 <charlie-tca> Since I have gotten a couple of comments/questions concerning the proposed, the review period will run one more week.

 22:49:27 <charlie-tca> #topic === Any Other Business ===

 22:49:27 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Any Other Business ===

 22:49:40 <charlie-tca> anything can be brought up at this time.

 22:49:52 <charlie-tca> Are there any comments or questions still out there?

 22:50:27 <charlie-tca> I will thank each and every one of you for participating in this meeting.

 22:50:39 <charlie-tca> We will meet again right here in one week.

 22:50:48 <micahg> err, 8 days :)

 22:50:51 <charlie-tca> anything...

 22:51:08 <charlie-tca> um, okay, just over one week

 22:51:15 <charlie-tca> lol

 22:51:21 <charlie-tca> anything at all?

 22:51:33 <charlie-tca> Let's go get something done.

 22:51:36 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
