{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The following is the proposed Agenda for the 5/30 meeting (Please feel free to make additions):
* Discuss converting the welcome centre to a documentation centre.
* Follow-up on items unresolved from last meeting (see irc log and meeting minutes)
* Moving Xubuntu Docs to Bazaar temporarily
* Possibly spreading out the Developers meetings.
