{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes how to make a Screencast on Xubuntu (Flash with audio).

 1. <pre>
sudo apt-get install vnc4server xvnc4viewer pygame lame
</pre> Note: Universe/Multiverse must be enabled. Note2: You may need additional stuff for playing mp3s, if you don't have it installed yet.

 1. Make sure your microphone works. most likely, you'll have to launch xfce4mixer and turn up the volume of the mic. also click on 'Show Switches' and hit 'Mic Boost'. 

 1. <pre>
vnc4server -geometry 800x600 
</pre> This will ask you to set a password. <code>vnc4server</code> will accept command line switches for different resolutionx, color depths, etc. Please refer to the man page.

 1. edit the file <code>~/.vnc/xstartup</code>. If the file does not exist, create it.

 1. replace the content with <pre>

unset SESSION_MANAGER
exec startxfce4
</pre>

 1. <pre>
xvnc4viewer localhost:1
</pre> This will bring up a window with a new desktop inside. This is the desktop that will be recorded.

 1. Go to http://www.unixuser.org/~euske/vnc2swf/pyvnc2swf.html and download the three python files.

 1. <pre>
./vnc2swf.py -o out.swf -S "arecord -r 22050 voice.wav" localhost:1
</pre> This should bring up a new window with some controls for recording.

 1. hit <Start> in the vnc2swf window.

 1. Switch to the xvnc4viewer window, and do-that-thing-you-do, while talking into your microphone.

 1. hit <Stop> in the vnc2swf window.

 1. <pre>
lame voice.wav voice.mp3
</pre>

 1. <pre>
./edit.py -o final.swf -a voice.mp3 out.swf
</pre>

 1. <pre>
firefox final.html
</pre>
