{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Specification title ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: 1px solid #888; width: 100%;" -2> Overview
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Title'''
| Enabling Xubuntu Developers
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Blueprint'''
| Part of <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-s-community]]</nowiki>
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Assignee'''
| Stephen Michael Kellat, Sean Davis, Simon Steinbeiß
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Release'''
| <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Goals-Saucy|Saucy Salamander]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Detailed specification ===

We do have some issues we have to clear up on this front. First and foremost, we need to find out what the extent of the the packagesets are. There is a page on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArchiveReorganisation/Permissions | the Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki> that explains the rationale setting up the packagesets. That documentation is a few years old and I do not want to manually use command strings like this to try to determine if things are in the packageset:

<pre>
ubuntu-upload-permission xubuntu-artwork --list-uploaders
</pre>

Of course, to do that, one must also have `ubuntu-dev-tools` installed.

We're not necessarily looking to grow the ranks of MOTU at this time. As noted on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers | this particular wiki page]]</nowiki>, no team controls the Xubuntu packageset which leaves it to MOTU to take care of. Different types of processes exist for handling developer membership such as where the Developer Membership Board handles qualifications for a number of packagesets while some are delegated as noted on that page. It appears that to move the three blueprint items forward an e-mail by the Xubuntu Project Leader might be warranted to <nowiki>[[mailto:devel-permissions@lists.ubuntu.com | devel-permissions@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> to get us reset as a project so that we can get permissions set up. For the three people listed, access is needed to deal with artwork, documentation, and catfish that pertain to our project and not really to the universe or multiverse beyond.

The next Developer Membership Board meeting is set for `Monday June 17th, 2013 19:00 UTC` so an e-mail request needs to be sent at the latest 10 full days prior. Those seeking upload rights and the XPL probably would need to be in attendance if this is put on the agenda for consideration. The description of processes located <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers/TeamDelegation | here]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership | Membership details]]</nowiki> since gaining developer status would also secure status as "Ubuntu Member" apparently.

Here's a probably incomplete list of source packages:
* exo
* garcon
* libxfce4ui
* libxfce4util
* libxfcegui4
* orage
* parole
* ristretto
* squeeze
* thunar
* thunar-archive-plugin
* thunar-media-tags-plugin
* thunar-vcs-plugin
* thunar-vfs
* thunar-volman
* xfburn
* xfce4-appfinder
* xfce4-battery-plugin
* xfce4-cellmodem-plugin
* xfce4-clipman-plugin
* xfce4-cpufreq-plugin
* xfce4-cpugraph-plugin
* xfce4-datetime-plugin
* xfce4-dict
* xfce4-diskperf-plugin
* xfce4-eyes-plugin
* xfce4-fsguard-plugin
* xfce4-genmon-plugin
* xfce4-hdaps
* xfce4-indicator-plugin
* xfce4-linelight-plugin
* xfce4-mailwatch-plugin
* xfce4-messenger-plugin
* xfce4-mixer
* xfce4-mount-plugin
* xfce4-mpc-plugin
* xfce4-netload-plugin
* xfce4-notes-plugin
* xfce4-notifyd
* xfce4-panel
* xfce4-places-plugin
* xfce4-power-manager
* xfce4-quicklauncher-plugin
* xfce4-radio-plugin
* xfce4-screenshooter
* xfce4-sensors-plugin
* xfce4-session
* xfce4-settings
* xfce4-smartbookmark-plugin
* xfce4-systemload-plugin
* xfce4-terminal
* xfce4-time-out-plugin
* xfce4-timer-plugin
* xfce4-verve-plugin
* xfce4-volumed
* xfce4-wavelan-plugin
* xfce4-weather-plugin
* xfce4-wmdock-plugin
* xfce4-xkb-plugin
* xfconf
* xfdesktop4
* xfprint4
* xfswitch-plugin
* xfwm4
* xubuntu-artwork
* xubuntu-default-settings
* xubuntu-meta
