{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 08 May at 19:00 &mdash; 19:51 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-08-19.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 19:01.

** ''ACTION:'' new-xpl: New XPL/council to run a call for a new technical lead

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:03.

** ''ACTION:'' knome sent a lot of menulibre bugreports
** package and image testing has started
** package tracker revamped

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:06.

** elfy is now a moderator of the xubuntu-devel mailing list

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 19:07.

* '''Create a testing PPA common to -team''' (19:07)
** Carrying on
* '''Using the project money (gathered from Linux Identity articles)''' (19:08)
** Dropping from the agenda, will be used as need arises
* '''Use a common area for detailed discussion notes (such as Trello)''' (19:08)
** Carrying on
* '''More mailing list moderators''' (19:10)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to add elfy to moderators of -users
** ''ACTION:'' knome to add bluesabre to moderators of -devel and -users

==== Planning for milestone images ====
The discussion about "Planning for milestone images" started at 19:13.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to add Unit193 to moderators of -devel and -users
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule 
** ''ACTION:'' Team: When is systemd landing?
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to send a question about participating to milestones to -devel ML
* '''New mailing list''' (19:20)
** Carrying the discussion on the mailing list, feedback welcome
** ''ACTION:'' knome to draft a proposal about the mailing list changes and post it to the -devel ML

==== New Xubuntu Project Lead ====
The discussion about "New Xubuntu Project Lead" started at 19:27.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ochosi/XPL2014 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SeanDavis/XPL2014 
** ''Vote:'' Process for voting: first IRC, then mailing list. Private votes to knome+pleia2. (Carried)
** ''Vote:'' Simon SteinbeiÃŸ (ochosi) for new XPL? (Carried)
** Simon SteinbeiÃŸ (ochosi) has 4 (four) votes.
** ''Vote:'' Sean Davis (bluesabre) for new XPL? (Carried)
** Sean Davis (bluesabre) has 2 (two) votes.
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send an email to the -devel list for email voting

==== Other business ====
The discussion about "Other business" started at 19:46.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-08-19.00.log.html#241 Simon SteinbeiÃŸ (ochosi) for new XPL?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/1/1)
** Voters elfy, knome, micahg-work, jjfrv8-work, bluesabre0
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-08-19.00.log.html#279 Sean Davis (bluesabre) for new XPL?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 2/0/0)
** Voters bluesabre0
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-08-19.00.log.html#212 Process for voting: first IRC, then mailing list. Private votes to knome+pleia2.]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 5/0/1)
** Voters knome, micahg-work, bluesabre0, jjfrv8-work, elfy, Unit193

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** knome to add bluesabre to moderators of -devel and -users
* elfy
** knome to add elfy to moderators of -users
** elfy to send a question about participating to milestones to -devel ML
* knome
** knome to add elfy to moderators of -users
** knome to add bluesabre to moderators of -devel and -users
** knome to add Unit193 to moderators of -devel and -users
** knome to draft a proposal about the mailing list changes and post it to the -devel ML
** knome to send an email to the -devel list for email voting
* new-xpl
** new-xpl: New XPL/council to run a call for a new technical lead
* Team
** Team: When is systemd landing?
* Unit193
** knome to add Unit193 to moderators of -devel and -users

=== Done items ===

* knome sent a lot of menulibre bugreports

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (166)
* meetingology (40)
* elfy (38)
* bluesabre0 (32)
* Unit193 (12)
* micahg-work (8)
* jjfrv8-work (4)
* brainwash (1)
* ubottu (1)
* new-xpl (0)
* Team (0)
* bluesabre (0)
