{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 19 Mar at 21:00 &mdash; 21:59 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2020/xubuntu-devel.2020-03-19-21.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 21:02.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 21:04.

** Most of the Xfce 4.14 updates are ready and in focal
** Wallpaper contest is now closed and we're all supposed to vote!
** Feature Freeze is past us.
** User Interface Freeze is today.
** jphilips has breathed new life into our social media

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 21:08.

* '''UI and UX tweaks''' (21:08)
** ''LINK:'' https://i.imgur.com/wjSFbVE.png 
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up email/vote to the list.

==== Any other business? ====
The discussion about "Any other business?" started at 21:55.

** Be sure to add bugs we want fixed to https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-f-bugs
** bluesabre to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up email/vote to the list.
* jphilips
** bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up email/vote to the list.

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (48)
* Unit193 (40)
* jphilips (35)
* pleia2 (10)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (1)
