{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Xubuntu Exit Specification ===

As it stands now, for several releases, Xubuntu has deviated from Xfce upstream by changing the behavior of xfce4-session to display a six button switch board involving logouts. This switchboard is not clear at first, and may intimate newer users by giving them six choices with large icons which may not be clear. Although these buttons are labeled, I don't 

===== Xfce4 Session =====

The upstream xfce4 session instead involves three buttons cleanly and uncluttered placed for Logout, Shutdown, Reboot. Although this may not seem like a huge difference, I found that the smaller window was easier to manage, and less confusing (and as someone who is an experienced computer user, and developer, I find that less is more when giving choices to log out). I suggest that we retain this layout, but replace Logout with Suspend, and possibly add a Hibernate button. The reason for replacing Logout with Suspend is that for most people with a single user computer, log out would be a rarely taken option. The Logout option itself should be moved to the Xfce menu above Quit. 

===== Other changes =====

Change the default of saving sessions to no.
