{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* Xubuntu community meeting, 2012-09-19
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2012/xubuntu-devel.2012-01-09-18.01.log.txt]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
* Open action items from previous meeting  (knome, 14:57:03)
* Disable compositor in live CD  (knome, 14:57:41)
** Compositor is disabled in the "Install Xubuntu" mode in the live CD  (knome, 14:57:53)
* Do we want to run encryption -tests for milestones?  (knome, 14:58:30)
** Postponing until R  (knome, 14:58:38)
* Testcases feedback  (knome, 14:58:47)
** New testcases up at the ISO tracker, please see eg. http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/219/builds/23726/testcases  (knome, 14:59:06)
** If something is inaccurate, please send email to the xubuntu-devel mailing list  (knome, 14:59:25)
* Xfce4 display dialog  (knome, 14:59:45)
** Postponed until R  (knome, 14:59:50)
* Strategy Document review  (knome, 14:59:58)
** The new Strategy Document is published at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument  (knome, 15:00:19)

==== Team updates ====
* Development  (knome, 15:00:38)
** Re-introducing indicators, except indicator-messages  (knome, 15:01:43)
* QA  (knome, 15:02:30)
** New testcases up at the ISO tracker  (knome, 15:02:38)
** We need more tests for Beta 2, since we skipped Beta 1  (knome, 15:03:01)
* Marketing, Promotion and Artwork  (knome, 15:03:10)
** Xfwm window borders fixed (2px for Q)  (knome, 15:03:29)
** Lots of other bugfixes in too  (knome, 15:03:40)
** sent off a request for quote on some casebadge stickers  (pleia2, 15:03:42)
** Countdown banners designed, see http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/branding_exports/countdown_quantal.png for a quick preview  (knome, 15:04:19)
** fleshed out our "marketing audience" on the wiki https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing so we can work on some flyers for events  (pleia2, 15:05:03)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to draft text for flyers this week  (pleia2, 15:05:17)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to draft flyer looks hopefully before UDS  (knome, 15:05:44)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to get new countdown banners uploaded  (knome, 15:06:08)
** website, wiki and help.ubuntu.com/community docs are looking good! we'll probably revisit them as a review next cycle  (pleia2, 15:06:22)
** ''ACTION:'' mr_pouit to upload updates to xubuntu-artwork (theme bugfixes and elementary-xfce USC icon change)  (knome, 15:06:50)
** "Dotless" wallpaper uploaded for LightDM and Plymouth since they don't scale wallpapers well  (knome, 15:08:09)
* Documentation and Website  (knome, 15:08:20)
** The documentation is now written, reviewed and converted to DocBook  (knome, 15:08:41)
** The docs will most probably land into B2, they'll be reviewed today to granted an upload permission  (knome, 15:09:09)
** Thanks for everybody contributing to the docs; bluesabre, elfy, jjfrv8, myself :P, ochosi, pleia2, SkippersBoss, smartboyhw, and others that are not online and/or i've forgotten  (knome, 15:10:21)

==== Announcements ====
* Release notes need writers, for Beta 2 and Final release  (knome, 15:12:33)
* Beta 2 freeze is TOMORROW 21UTC  (knome, 15:12:43)

==== New ang emerging items ====
* ISO oversizedness  (knome, 15:14:43)
** We are currently at 708MB for amd64 and 693MB for i386  (knome, 15:15:05)
** Languages that we'll keep for i386 but drop for amd64 to get more space: xh, fr, pt  (knome, 15:18:30)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to drop 'pt' from amd64 and reintroduce 'de' for i386  (knome, 15:23:05)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to make sure i386 doesn't go oversized, and if it goes, drop gnome-sudoku tomorrow before freeze  (knome, 15:23:29)
* Schedule next meeting  (knome, 15:24:49)
** Next meeting: September 26th, 15UTC  (knome, 15:28:13)

=== Action items, by person ===
* knome
** knome to draft flyer looks hopefully before UDS
** knome to get new countdown banners uploaded
* micahg
** micahg to drop 'pt' from amd64 and reintroduce 'de' for i386
** micahg to make sure i386 doesn't go oversized, and if it goes, drop gnome-sudoku tomorrow before freeze
* pleia2
** pleia2 to draft text for flyers this week

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (99)
* micahg (18)
* pleia2 (17)
* smartboyhw (12)
* meetingology (10)
* SkippersBoss (9)
* bluesabre (7)
* pnarciso (2)
