{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 12 Oct at 21:58 &mdash; 22:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2019/xubuntu-devel.2019-10-12-21.58.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:01.

** ''DONE:'' bluesabre to replace light-locker with xfce4-screensaver in eoan
** ''DONE:'' bluesabre to mail the mailing list to discuss additional keyboard shortcuts
** ''DONE:'' bluesabre to mail the team regarding the GTK styles in GIMP (noting GTK used to be default)
** ''DONE:'' bluesabre to email a team vote for color emoji support in Xubuntu

==== Updates and announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and announcements" started at 22:05.

** Xfce 4.14 released, available in 19.10
** Root ZFS installation now available with the 19.10 daily image
** 19.10 to be released this coming Thursday (10/17), let's test it this week!

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:10.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 22:28.

** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* bluesabre to replace light-locker with xfce4-screensaver in eoan
* bluesabre to mail the mailing list to discuss additional keyboard shortcuts
* bluesabre to mail the team regarding the GTK styles in GIMP (noting GTK used to be default)
* bluesabre to email a team vote for color emoji support in Xubuntu

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (61)
* ochosi (41)
* ubottu (6)
* meetingology (6)
* Unit193 (2)
