{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-08-28 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[TOPIC] === Old Business ===

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - Done - Ready for website
* livecd menu logo - Done

* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - Postponed until LTS
* charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu - Carried Forward
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS
** Consumes too much memory bug has been fixed
* activate the "maybe-ubiquity" option for LTS - Carried Forward

[TOPIC] === Team updates ===
[TOPIC] ==== Packaging & Development ====

* micahg fixed the alternate cd to fit in 700M again
* latest greybird uploaded
* plymouth 16bit theme added.
* we have 4 FTBFS sources from the archive rebuild including xubuntu-docs
* Launchpad bug 831488 in gnome-bluetooth (Ubuntu Oneiric) "gnome-bluetooth should Recommends gnome-control-center" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/831488

[TOPIC] ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* We done really good testing daily images this week. Many thanks to those doing those tests.
* Please sync your images. We begin Beta1 testing on Tuesday.
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

[TOPIC] ==== Website & Marketing ====

* Website draft has been forwarded to IS; now awaiting their decision.
* Possible plugin to wordpress to translate the website actively
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website/+bug/797600
* We need to be telling people they can submit articles anytime they want.

[TOPIC] ==== Artwork ====

* 

[TOPIC] ==== Documentation ====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

[TOPIC] === Announcements ===

* The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-09-19 at 19:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** We are now in UI Freeze
** 11.10 Beta2 freeze: September 15
** 11.10 Beta2: September 2
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
* We need to update the Team Reports this week.

[TOPIC] === Any Other Business ===

* Beta1 this next week. Let's try and get a good news writeup. It is going to happen, for sure.

* Blueprints
** We should blueprint at least for default applications and have one uds session for default apps
** it would eliminate the time gap we have now deciding what is going to stay and what is going to change
** This could be a single blueprint; specifying goals for Xubuntu for the release cycle

* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-08-28 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

==== Action items ====

* charlie-tca to get FFe filed for xubuntu-meta to add blueman to seeds
* micahg or mr_pouit to do FFe for blueman
