{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* Xubuntu community meeting, 2013-01-10
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-01-10-14.59.moin.txt]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
* Open action items from previous meeting  (knome, 15:00:07)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to draft flyer looks  (knome, 15:00:21)

==== Team updates ====
* Development  (knome, 15:01:44)
** parole 0.4.0 released, looking for testers (not enough bugs logged on it)  (bluesabre_, 15:03:31)
** mr_pouit has gotten newer versions of various components into raring  (micahg, 15:03:53)
** i386 ISO is CD size again (minus fr langpacks)  (micahg, 15:04:08)
** micahg working on rebuild FTBFS failures, mostly related to multiarch python headers  (micahg, 15:04:46)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to attempt to make amd64 ISO CD size by alpha2 (useful for its timing, but we're not shipping it)  (micahg, 15:05:14)
** just for general information, the alpha2 is most probably going to be postponed by a few days (read ubuntu-release archives for more info)  (knome, 15:06:05)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to create a list of things that needs porting from python2 to python3  (knome, 15:11:29)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to get list of packages in Xubuntu using python2  (micahg, 15:11:30)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to finish fixing FTBFS failures found in the rebuilds  (micahg, 15:11:55)
** we'll see how the python-port list looks like, then reconsider if we should consider dropping langpacks  (knome, 15:12:47)
* Quality Assurance  (knome, 15:14:29)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to see if anything else than xchat is keeping tcl in (recommends for xchat), team investigates possibility to drop tcl  (knome, 15:18:01)
** ''ACTION:'' knome gathers a list of things we want to test before alpha2  (knome, 15:18:41)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre_ lists things he wants tested in his projects  (knome, 15:18:53)
** parole 0.4 is out and available in raring, lots of new features and fixes, testers needed  (bluesabre_, 15:19:09)
** we will do some specific cadence testing before a2  (knome, 15:19:20)
** when a2 is out, we will do more of more general cadence testing  (knome, 15:19:53)
** ''ACTION:'' knome will send more information on the ML, team shouts out in social media etc. for anybody to help with testing  (knome, 15:20:35)
* Marketing, Promotion and Artwork  (knome, 15:21:43)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 drafts a new blog article on testing after knome has sent information on testing to ML  (knome, 15:22:08)
** we contacted the identi.ca xubuntu group and will be co-admins of that soon  (knome, 15:22:35)
** knome is seriously considering of ordering one more xubuntu t-shirt for testing quality etc  (knome, 15:26:12)
** we have someone working on updated screenshots for the website for 12.10 (better late than never!)  (pleia2, 15:28:14)
** as always, we could use more team members contributing blog posts, you know where to find me :)  (pleia2, 15:28:45)
** ''ACTION:'' team should work more on listing low-hanging fruit for new contributors to grow the community  (knome, 15:29:08)
** if you write about xubuntu (development) on your blog, it's possible to tweet about that @Xubuntu  (knome, 15:30:21)
** or, if you're on twitter yourself, we can retweet too..  (knome, 15:31:17)
** knome has been retweeting some nice comments for @Xubuntu anyway  (knome, 15:31:41)
* Documentation, Website  (knome, 15:31:56)
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-r-xubuntu-docs   (pleia2, 15:32:38)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre_ to investigate moving to yelp with docs to enable translations and stuff  (knome, 15:34:31)
* General updates  (knome, 15:35:44)
** ''ACTION:'' team to schedule some time to look at the seed and consider dropping unneded things  (knome, 15:40:02)
** ''ACTION:'' team to consider switching leafpad to mousepad  (knome, 15:42:57)

==== Announcements ====
* Changes of positions on the Xubuntu team  (knome, 15:43:20)
** elfy dropped a line that he can't help in the R cycle; knome will take over the QA-related stuff (again)  (knome, 15:43:40)
** The term for XPL ends at the end of this cycle  (knome, 15:44:00)
** Since we changed the Strategy Document, the next term will only be 2 (two) releases, since the term is designed to end with an LTS release.  (knome, 15:44:32)
** We will be voting on extending the current XPL's term at the end of the cycle; if not extended, a new XPL will serve for two cycles  (knome, 15:45:18)
** the Community Council has been meeting with teams this cycle, next Thursday (17th) it's Xubuntu's turn: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda  (pleia2, 15:50:38)

==== New ang emerging items ====
* Serbian translation for Xfce 4.10  (knome, 15:51:06)
* Discuss changing Xfce translations to a langpack system similar to KDE (makes it easier to update translations post release)  (knome, 15:52:14)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to research converting to a Kubuntu style per-language source langpack  (micahg, 16:09:05)
* Schedule next meeting  (knome, 16:10:48)
** Next Xubuntu community meeting: Jan 24, 15 UTC @#xubuntu-devel  (knome, 16:15:06)

=== Action items, by person ===
* bluesabre_
** bluesabre_ lists things he wants tested in his projects
** bluesabre_ to investigate moving to yelp with docs to enable translations and stuff
* knome
** knome to draft flyer looks
** knome gathers a list of things we want to test before alpha2
** knome will send more information on the ML, team shouts out in social media etc. for anybody to help with testing
* micahg
** micahg to attempt to make amd64 ISO CD size by alpha2 (useful for its timing, but we're not shipping it)
** micahg to create a list of things that needs porting from python2 to python3
** micahg to get list of packages in Xubuntu using python2
** micahg to finish fixing FTBFS failures found in the rebuilds
** micahg to see if anything else than xchat is keeping tcl in (recommends for xchat), team investigates possibility to drop tcl
** micahg to research converting to a Kubuntu style per-language source langpack
* pleia2
** pleia2 drafts a new blog article on testing after knome has sent information on testing to ML
* team
** micahg to see if anything else than xchat is keeping tcl in (recommends for xchat), team investigates possibility to drop tcl
** knome will send more information on the ML, team shouts out in social media etc. for anybody to help with testing
** team should work more on listing low-hanging fruit for new contributors to grow the community
** team to schedule some time to look at the seed and consider dropping unneded things
** team to consider switching leafpad to mousepad

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (195)
* micahg (70)
* pleia2 (29)
* bluesabre_ (21)
* meetingology (19)
* mr_pouit (15)
* maddernick (1)
* jjfrv8 (1)
* team (0)
