{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

** It was decided that the Xubuntu Welcome Centre would not be endorsed by the official Xubuntu Team.
** j1mc and Admiral_Chicago are going to head-up the revision of Xubuntu documentation, including topic-based help and a revision to the documentation's .css design.
*** We discussed possibly using a separate application to display Xubuntu documentation, including using Yelp after removing gnome-deps, but decided to stick with firefox for the time being.  We'll look into the possibility of opening up the documentation in a special instance of firefox something similar to kiosk mode.
** Vinze is going to get in touch with Jmak regarding inclusion of a Murrine theme for Gutsy Gibbon.  Jmak had previously said that he already had some ideas for Gutsy artwork.
** We discussed both airconfig, nm-applet, and wifi-radar for use as a wireless network manager for Xubuntu.  
*** airconfig, though an xfce app, appears to be in very early development
*** nm-applet has gnome-deps, and some think it's buggy
*** wifi-radar has weak wpa support.  
*** See logs for full discussion on this matter.  no consensus was reached.
** Discussion of games and which ones to include.
*** Matter not finalized, but somerville32 is interested in working to repackage gnome-games with gnome-deps removed.
** We discussed notification-daemon-xfce. I (ongardie) looked into it some more and concluded that it's just not worth packaging right now.
** The latest release (v0.3.6) has build errors on feisty. svn trunk works as of 2007-05-23.
** The settings allow you to configure where to place the pop-ups, but don't have a default setting.
** It doesn't look like we can do away with gconf2 any time soon anyway
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2007-January/003093.html
* Discussion occurred regarding samba browsing (separate application vs. integration with Thunar for the time being) and somerville32 agreed to investigate.
