{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Xubuntu 6.06 (Dapper Drake) ==

Xubuntu is the newest official Ubuntu derivative distribution, using the Xfce desktop environment and a selection of GTK2 applications.  Its lightweight footprint is well suited for low-end hardware and thin clients.  Xubuntu builds on the solid foundation of Ubuntu, with world-class hardware support and access to a vast repository of additional software.

These Release Notes highlight some of the features in Xubuntu 6.06, download and installation notes, known issues, and frequently asked questions. Please read these notes before, during, and after installation and configuration, and before reporting bugs in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/distros/ubuntu|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

----

=== Downloading Xubuntu 6.06 ===

You can download Xubuntu 6.06 from the following URL:

   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/6.06/release/

You can also download all architecture types of Xubuntu 6.06 using BitTorrent and Jigdo. 

==== On the Desktop ====

* Xfce 4.4beta1 including a more flexible panel, many panel plugins and icons on the desktop
* Thunar file manager
* GDM desktop manager
* Gnome Office (latest Abiword and Gnumeric)
* Evince document viewer
* Xarchiver archive manager
* Xfburn simple CD burner
* Xubuntu System Tools for GUI system administration
* Firefox 1.5.0.3
* Thunderbird 1.5.0.2
* Package updates manager
* Graphical .deb package installer (''GDebi'')

* New documentation (''Xubuntu Desktop Guide'')
* New and more consistent artwork

and more.

In addition, OpenOffice.org and Gnome CUPS Manager are included on the alternate CD but not installed by default.

==== Thin clients ====

* The alternate CD includes an option to automatically install an LTSP server environment for quick and painless deployment of thin client networks.
* Xfce and a selection of lightweight applications are provided, to minimize network overhead and maximize the number of thin clients which can be served by a single server

==== "Under the hood" ====

** GCC 4.0.3

** glibc 2.3.6

** Linux 2.6.15.7

As always, Xubuntu includes the very best of the 100% Free / Libre 
application software world, and each new release incorporates 
countless new features and bugfixes from the global development 
community.

=== Downloading and Installing ===

Xubuntu 6.06 supports three (3) major architectures: Intel x86, AMD64, and PowerPC. Depending on your needs, you might manage with less than some of the recommended hardware listed in the table below. However, most users risk being frustrated if they ignore these suggestions.

==== Recommended Minimum Requirements ====

To run the Desktop CD at least 128 megabytes of RAM is required. To use the installed system at least 64 megabytes
of RAM is required but 128 is recommended.
At least 1.4 gigabytes of disk space is required.

==== Known Issues ====

* The menu editor (xfce4-menueditor) doesn't work as expected, and might eat your menu. To restore the default menu: remove ~/.config/xfce4/desktop/menu.xml, log out from Xfce and then log in again.

=== Getting Help and Technical Support ===

Technical Support for Xubuntu 6.06 is available from a variety of sources: from the community, from recognized organizations, and from developers directly through open web forums, mailing lists and IRC channels:

* http://www.ubuntu.com/support  

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu or #xubuntu IRC channels on Freenode, on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

* http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
* http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* http://www.ubuntuforums.org 

Canonical, Ltd. does not provide commercial support for Xubuntu at this time.

=== Reporting Bugs ===

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs through Malone:

 http://bugs.ubuntu.com/

=== More Information ===

You can find out more about Xubuntu and about the 6.06 release on our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Xubuntu, please visit:

 http://www.xubuntu.org/
