{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 15 Apr at 21:01 &mdash; 22:00 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-04-15-21.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 21:03.

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 21:05.

** the hacky patch from bug #1437180 won't get shipped in 15.04, the bug will remain as it is and we will have to resolve it in 15.10
** we'll be sharing on social media soon, but here first - polos and sweaters! https://www.hellotux.com/xubuntu
** Gimp, Abiword and Gnumeric will be dropped for 15.10, LibreOffice (or parts of it) will be installed by default (result of the team vote from last week)

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 21:12.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 21:15.

* '''Rebooting the FAQ articles''' (21:16)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-April/010697.html 
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-docs to throw the ball around about the FAQ articles
* '''Xubuntu session in Ubuntu Online Summit on May 5-7''' (21:23)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-April/010715.html 
** ''LINK:'' http://i.imgur.com/WybNkNw.gif?1 

==== Other discussions ====
The discussion about "Other discussions" started at 21:44.

** ''LINK:'' http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubiquity-slideshow/ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu/html/revision/677 
** Final Freeze tomorrow, Apr 16 at 21:00 UTC
** any last fixes that aren't RC for Xubuntu need to be in by then (preferably all the RC fixes as well)
** final freeze for unseeded packages is sometime next Tuesday, anything that's not on any images can still get bugfixes until then
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to draft an EOL announcement (with other flavors)

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** elfy to draft an EOL announcement (with other flavors)
* xubuntu-docs
** xubuntu-docs to throw the ball around about the FAQ articles

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (84)
* slickymaster (76)
* elfy (50)
* ochosi (32)
* balloons (20)
* micahg (11)
* pleia2 (6)
* meetingology (5)
* zequence (3)
* Unit193 (2)
* ubottu (1)
* xubuntu-docs (0)
