{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 17 Nov at 22:00 &mdash; 23:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2017/xubuntu-devel.2017-11-17-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:02.

==== Updates and announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and announcements" started at 22:02.

** QA Staging PPA is now available at https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ubuntu/staging
** PulseAudio Plugin and Status Notifier Plugin are now included in Bionic, replacing indicator-application, indicator-sound, and xfce4-volumed
** Next milestone, November 30: Feature Definition Freeze

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:04.

* '''Replace GNOME components with MATE components (bluesabre)''' (22:04)
** ''Vote:'' OK to replace GNOME components with MATE counterparts? (Carried)
** Carrying on with the transition to MATE components
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to change seed for GNOME/MATE apps transition before FDF
* '''Core on tracker? (flocculant)''' (22:22)
* '''Xfce Power Manager 1.6.x (bluesabre, ochosi)''' (22:40)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre and ochosi to get on with it and include xfpm 1.6
* '''Investigate replacing elementary-xfce with Suru (ochosi)''' (22:53)
** ''LINK:'' https://community.ubuntu.com/t/icon-theme-discussions/1925 
* '''Xubuntu desktop for 18.04''' (22:59)
** ''LINK:'' https://i.imgur.com/xPqWI4K.png 
** ''LINK:'' https://community.ubuntu.com/t/suggestion-use-mate-applications-in-the-eventual-unity-7-flavor-of-ubuntu-18-04/1949 
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to send a proposal on improving panel configuration

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 23:24.

==== Other discussions ====
The discussion about "Other discussions" started at 23:25.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to wake up the discussion about the community wallpaper contest

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 23:27.

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2017/xubuntu-devel.2017-11-17-22.00.log.html#113 OK to replace GNOME components with MATE counterparts?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/1)
** Voters knome, akxwi-dave, flocculant, krytarik, slickymaster, pleia2, bluesabre

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to change seed for GNOME/MATE apps transition before FDF
** bluesabre and ochosi to get on with it and include xfpm 1.6
* flocculant
** flocculant to send a proposal on improving panel configuration
* knome
** knome to wake up the discussion about the community wallpaper contest
* ochosi
** bluesabre and ochosi to get on with it and include xfpm 1.6

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (229)
* flocculant (164)
* bluesabre (121)
* ochosi (74)
* flexiondotorg (53)
* slickymaster (26)
* meetingology (20)
* akxwi-dave (4)
* krytarik (4)
* pleia2 (2)
* ubottu (1)
