{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 01 Oct at 18:00 &mdash; 18:38 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-10-01-18.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 18:03.

** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/QAIncentive 
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to contact unixstickers

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 18:12.

** Final Beta testing 64bit 9 install tests, 6 livesession and 3 post install tests
** Final Beta testing 32bit 9 install tests, 7 livesession and 2 post install tests
** Final Beta testing Team Testing - (excluding XPL & QA Lead) - 5 team members (50%) tested images during Final Beta, 3 outside team tested. 10 total.
** bug 1375893 needs to be sorted soon
** vm bug(s) still present - should be fixed tomorrow (2/10)
** knome and pleia2 working to engage users more with #LoveXubuntu idea: http://pad.ubuntu.com/Nl1LbS6DqL

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 18:21.

* '''list of projects we need/want to maintain translations''' (18:21)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a mail to the list regarding list of projects we need/want to maintain translations
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to schedule the next meeting.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to send a mail to the list regarding list of projects we need/want to maintain translations
* pleia2
** pleia2 to contact unixstickers
** pleia2 to schedule the next meeting.

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* slickymasterWork (59)
* elfy (51)
* knome (28)
* pleia2 (13)
* dkessel (12)
* meetingology (7)
* GridCube (4)
* ubottu (1)
