{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 25 Feb at 17:00 &mdash; 17:32 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-02-25-17.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 17:02.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to tie up with elfy for xubuntu-core upgrade testing needs

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 17:03.

** The new website theme (with fixes) is live!!!
** Trusty testing - once we had a testable image - went well - 94 reported results for that
** First count for QA incentive will be done by Sunday for ochosi to approve
** vivid beta testing is not going too well with the known issue, release team need to make a decision
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-release to discuss state of vivid beta and release position
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 published a "Xubuntu at..." blog post

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 17:18.

** Xfce 4.12 is to be released next weekend
** Team has got an ACK for a FFe for 4.12 uploads, will be uploaded once everything has settled
** Next freezes: UIFreeze March 12, DocStringFreeze March 19

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 17:22.

* '''ISO target size''' (17:22)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-February/010606.html 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to follow up with ochosi on setting up a team vote - or allowing more time for discussion
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to add the "game issue" into the meeting agenda
* '''Any other discussion''' (17:29)

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 17:31.

** ochosi schedules the next meeting (XPL duty)

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** Unit193 to tie up with elfy for xubuntu-core upgrade testing needs
** elfy to add the "game issue" into the meeting agenda
* knome
** knome to follow up with ochosi on setting up a team vote - or allowing more time for discussion
* Unit193
** Unit193 to tie up with elfy for xubuntu-core upgrade testing needs

=== Done items ===

* pleia2 published a "Xubuntu at..." blog post

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (88)
* elfy (45)
* meetingology (10)
* slickymasterWork (8)
* GridCube (5)
* Akusari (2)
* dkessel (1)
* PaulW2U (1)
* ubottu (1)
* Unit193 (0)
