{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* Mailing list and IRC discussions since our last meeting led us to consider modifying the Welcome Centre for use as a "documentation browser."  Developers of the Welcome Centre were not present at the meeting to provide further detail as to how difficult this may be.  Per the request of Cody Sommerville, Jim Campbell and Freddy Martinez have since prepared a <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Specifications/Gutsy/DocumentationBrowser]]</nowiki> spec on the Ubuntu wiki for this project.  (See the meeting log for further detail).
* We discussed temporarily housing the new documentation as a bazaar project so that Freddy and I can commit code to a temporary repository and view each other's code, but this was not settled, and doesn't look likely to be done.  
* Discussed a greater length of time between meetings.  Currently they are set roughly 10-11 days apart.  People thought that every 2-3 weeks might be better.
* Vidd discussed his desire for a graphical FTP client to be installed by default, and problems burning ISOs with xfburn.  Others agreed that a graphical FTP client is not a must-have for the typical user, and that those who want to use one would know how to install it.  Vidd has been encouraged to file bugs and write patches to help fix any issues in xfburn.
* hyper_ch suggested including <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=214059|catfish]]</nowiki> as a file search utility for Xubuntu, as it integrates with Thunar.  Meeting participants liked the idea, and both Kalikiana and Cody Somerville are familiar with it, so we hope that it will be followed-up on by one of them.
