{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Instructions on how to get Gtk3 indicators in a Gtk2 Xfce-Panel ==

=== Installation ===

==== Step 1: Install dependencies ====
<code>sudo apt-get build-dep xfce4-panel libxfce4ui xfce4-indicator-plugin</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo apt-get install git xfce4-dev-tools gtk-doc-tools libindicator3-dev libido3-0.1-dev</code><<BR>>

==== Step 2: xfce4-panel ====

<code>git clone git://git.xfce.org/xfce/xfce4-panel</code><<BR>>
<code>cd xfce4-panel</code><<BR>>
<code>git checkout andrzejr/wrapper3</code><<BR>>
<code>./autogen.sh --enable-gtk3</code><<BR>>
''# (above you can add --prefix=/usr if you're not afraid of reinstalling your xfce4-panel with "sudo apt-get install xfce4-panel --reinstall")''<<BR>>
<code>make</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo make install</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo ldconfig # (to update libraries)</code><<BR>>
<code>cd ..</code><<BR>>

==== Step 3: libxfce4ui ====

<code>git clone git://git.xfce.org/xfce/libxfce4ui</code><<BR>>
<code>cd libxfce4ui</code><<BR>>
<code>./autogen.sh --enable-gtk3</code><<BR>>
<code>make</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo make install</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo ldconfig</code><<BR>>
<code>cd ..</code><<BR>>

==== Step 4: xfce4-indicator-panel ====

<code>git clone git://git.xfce.org/panel-plugins/xfce4-indicator-plugin</code><<BR>>
<code>cd xfce4-indicator-plugin</code><<BR>>
<code>./autogen.sh</code><<BR>>
''# (if you used --prefix=/usr before, use it again here)''<<BR>>
<code>make</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo make install</code><<BR>>
<code>cd ..</code><<BR>>

==== Gtk3 Indicators ====

<code>sudo apt-get install indicator-power indicator-bluetooth indicator-datetime indicator-keyboard indicator-printers indicator-sound indicator-sync indicator-messages</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo apt-get purge indicator-sound-gtk2 indicator-application-gtk2</code><<BR>>

=== Usage ===

Run <code>xfce4-panel --restart</code> and your panel might look half-empty.
Be sure to either backup your config (~/.config/xfce4/..) or be ready to recreate your panel by hand.
The first time you run it you might get crashes because gtk2 indicator backends are still running. You can ignore this.

=== Known Issues ===

==== indicator-datetime config panel ====
You can't access it unless you are running Unity. This affects gnome-classic too. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/1074314|#1074314]]</nowiki>

==== Various indicators have no menu ====
This isn't specific to any DE. Test case affects Unity too. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glipper/+bug/1203888/|#1203888]]</nowiki> (fixed in saucy and trusty.)

==== Datetime/Session indicators sometimes don't load at startup ====
Affects other sessions. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/1239710|#1239710]]</nowiki> (fix is in proposed.)
