{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for March 2009'''

===== Artwork =====

* Lots of general discussion on the mailing list.
* Pasi prepared stuff for Jaunty artwork cycle
** Wallpaper
** Countdown banners
** GDM theme (needs polishing)
* Pasi worked on potential Jaunty+1 artwork:
** First version for new GTK theme
** Charlie did excessive testing on the performance issues.
* Pasi and Michael started planning/working on new Usplash theme

===== Bug Triage =====

* Many bugs fixed with the upgrade to Xfce 4.6. 

===== Community =====

* Following the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Grow the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki> -specification.

===== Documentation =====

* Jim Campbell cleaned up the documentation in advance of String Freeze on Thursday.  He removed all ghelp links from the Xubuntu documentation, converting them to links that will work when the docs are converted to html.  
* Charlie and Pasi updated hardware requirements on the wiki. Charlie did excessive testing whether these apply to Jaunty.
* Cody cleaned up the documentation by removing cruft and rewrote the Makefiles so that the documentation builds properly.

===== Marketing =====

* Following the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Grow the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki> -specification.
* Discussion about the target audience for Xubuntu
* Work is made to get everything consistent.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Released Alpha 5
* Uploaded all of Xfce 4.6 (Big Thanks to Lionel, Michael, Jeromeg, and the Debian Xfce Team).
* Released Alpha 6
* Upgrade testing in progress for Jaunty. Upgrades using normal procedures and using aufs based upgrades are working.
* Lionel applied a cherry-pick to xfwm4 from upstream svn to fix a focus issue with update-manager (LP: #335928)
* Lionel applied a patch to Thunar so that Thunar will correctly honour user's umask.
* Lionel updated the Xubuntu seeds to include rarian instead of scrollkeeper.
* Cody de-seeded xfmedia from ship seed (due to inability to include recommended package on cd) and regenerated xubuntu-meta.
* Cody updated gigolo desktop file to be more useful (and potentially avoided offending folks).
* Lionel uploaded artwork and default settings changes.
* Cody and Nathan assisted Jim in documentation packaging efforts.
* Cody uploaded updated documentation translation templates to launchpad and sent out an e-mail to encourage folks to help translate Xubuntu documentation for jaunty.
* Cody patched gnome-terminal to not show up in the menu as our terminal menu item uses the preferred terminal.
* Cody patched xfprint4 to not install its desktop files so that we don't have 4-5 menu items related to printing.
* Michael updated the xubuntu-artwork package to use png files instead of svg as svg does not have acceleration under arm and was causing the login process to take a whole extra minute to complete.
