{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-09-25 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

* verify top 10 FAQ and check help links in 10
* charlie-tca to get FFe filed for xubuntu-meta to add blueman to seeds - Carried Forward
** madnick to test blueman in ppa:micahg/patch-test
* docs need a version bump (s/11.04/11.10)
* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - Postponed until LTS
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS
** Consumes too much memory bug has been fixed
* activate the "maybe-ubiquity" option for LTS - Carried Forward

* New upstream bugfix releases uploaded: thunar 1.2.3, xfce4-panel 4.8.6, xfwm4 4.8.2, xfce4-utils 4.8.3, xfce4-settings 4.8.3, garcon 0.1.9
* micahg has been working on blueman (cf. "old business" topic)
* Launchpad bug 840094 in xubuntu-meta (Ubuntu Oneiric) "[xubuntu] There is no screen title" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/840094
* Launchpad bug 836208 in xubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "On login to xubuntu session, starts nautilus which ruins desktop" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/836208

* A big thank you to everyone for helping get Beta2 out the door. We now have about three weeks left before the final release of Xubuntu 11.10.
* Testing will update both google docs and http://gridcube.netii.net/test/XTCv2.html this week.
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

* The wordpress site has been approved. We are now in the process of converting http://xubuntu.org from drupal to wordpress
** knome is working on moving content over to the testing site we have now
* We need to be telling people they can submit articles anytime they want.

* Lightdm greeter theme might make it into Oneiric

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

* The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-10-03 at 19:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** We are now in UI Freeze and Beta2 Freeze; archives will remain frozen until final release.
** 11.10 Final Freeze: September 29
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
* We need to update the Team Reports this week.

* Blueprints
** We should blueprint at least for default applications and have one uds session for default apps
** it would eliminate the time gap we have now deciding what is going to stay and what is going to change
** This could be a single blueprint; specifying goals for Xubuntu for the release cycle

* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-09-25 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

* Nominations for project lead are now open.
** Those wishing to nominate themselves or others should do so by email to either mailing list, or myself (charlie-tca@ubuntu.com).
** Nominations will close October 20, 2011, and the community election will be held at the meeting on October 23, 2011. If there are issues with this, please let us know between now and October 20.
** <GridCube> Can I propose you to Project Leader charlie-tca? not because you just are the current one, but because i think you are doing a pretty good job at it, and I think that thats good :D

==== Action items ====

* madnick to test blueman in ppa:micahg/patch-test

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-09-25 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/09/25/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Meeting ended Sun Sep 25 22:48:06 2011 UTC.
Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-09-25-22.00.moin.txt

Minutes:

=== People present (lines said) ===

* charlie-tca (113)
* GridCube (48)
* knome (32)
* madnick (11)
* micahg (10)
* mr_pouit (10)
* meetingology (5)
* pleia2 (3)
* ubottu (2)
* beardygnome (2)
* Exio (1)

=== Full Log ===

 22:00:07 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting Xubuntu

 22:00:07 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Sep 25 22:00:07 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 22:00:07 <meetingology>

 22:00:07 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 22:00:09 <Exio> :P

 22:00:27 <charlie-tca> #meetingname Xubuntu Community Meeting

 22:00:27 <meetingology> The meeting name has been set to 'xubuntu_community_meeting'

 22:00:46 <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 22:01:02 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 22:01:50 <charlie-tca> Along the same lines, the meeting bot records who is present, but only if they comment. Please either wave (o/) or hello or something, so we count you as present.

 22:02:09 <GridCube> \o/

 22:02:25 <GridCube> count me twice :P

 22:02:40 <charlie-tca> sure

 22:02:46 <charlie-tca> anyone else here?

 22:02:49 <madnick> hello

 22:02:54 <micahg> o/

 22:03:09 <mr_pouit> o/

 22:03:12 <charlie-tca> beardygnome: Hello kind sir

 22:03:23 <beardygnome> hi charlie-tca

 22:03:25 <charlie-tca> #topic === Old Business ===

 22:03:37 <beardygnome> sorry i'm a few mins late

 22:03:54 <charlie-tca> No problem, the important thing is you are here.

 22:03:56 <charlie-tca> * charlie-tca to get FFe filed for xubuntu-meta to add blueman to seeds - Carried Forward

 22:04:01 <charlie-tca> micahg: status?

 22:04:23 <micahg> charlie-tca: I uploaded a new test version to my PPA, would like madnick to test if possible

 22:04:39 <charlie-tca> He wants the information about it

 22:04:53 <charlie-tca> madnick: did you follow?

 22:04:58 <madnick> yes, i can do that

 22:05:07 <madnick> I just couldnt find the stuff in the PPA i found on google

 22:05:40 <charlie-tca> I believe that. Google probably is referring to out of date releases

 22:05:51 <micahg> madnick: huh? it's my PPA :)  ppa:micahg/patch-test

 22:06:00 <madnick> oh

 22:06:07 <charlie-tca> oh, yeah, that too

 22:06:40 <charlie-tca> #action madnick to test blueman in ppa:micahg/patch-test

 22:06:40 * meetingology madnick to test blueman in ppa:micahg/patch-test

 22:07:04 <charlie-tca> We only got a few days left to get this in, and the release team knows we will want an FFe

 22:07:29 <GridCube> thats good then

 22:07:33 <madnick> I will try it directly, if there is anything special to test, please tell me :)

 22:07:33 <charlie-tca> #topic === Team updates ===

 22:07:49 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Packaging & Development ====

 22:07:58 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: I know you been busy this week

 22:08:07 <micahg> madnick: I have no idea, I think functional testing should be sufficient

 22:08:07 <GridCube> o/

 22:08:11 <mr_pouit> hehe ;-)

 22:08:35 <charlie-tca> GridCube: we will give mr_pouit a chance first, okay?

 22:08:48 <GridCube> :)

 22:08:53 <mr_pouit> fine by me :p

 22:09:00 <mr_pouit> * New upstream bugfix releases uploaded: thunar 1.2.3, xfce4-panel 4.8.6, xfwm4 4.8.2, xfce4-utils 4.8.3, xfce4-settings 4.8.3, garcon 0.1.9

 22:09:07 <mr_pouit> * micahg has been working on blueman (cf. "old business" topic)

 22:09:31 <mr_pouit> (and I haven't forgotten about Bug #840094)

 22:09:32 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 840094 in xubuntu-meta (Ubuntu Oneiric) "[xubuntu] There is no screen title" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/840094

 22:09:36 <mr_pouit> ..

 22:09:52 <charlie-tca> Thank you very much for that work

 22:10:01 <charlie-tca> Any questions for packaging and development?

 22:10:22 <charlie-tca> GridCube: go ahead?

 22:10:27 <GridCube> if we cannot change the lightdm skin in time, can we at least make it not PINK? like black or something?

 22:11:12 <mr_pouit> I think it's hardcoded like that on i386

 22:11:19 <GridCube> :(

 22:11:21 <charlie-tca> no, it is difficult to get the color changed

 22:11:22 <mr_pouit> (apparently it's not the same color on amd64?)

 22:11:31 <charlie-tca> heh, no

 22:11:40 <charlie-tca> Thankfully, it is a very nice blue

 22:12:32 <charlie-tca> micahg: did you have anything to add to packaging and development?

 22:12:58 <micahg> just to point out something

 22:13:13 <micahg> bug 836208 is quite annoying for anyone w/more than one desktop installed

 22:13:14 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 836208 in xubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "On login to xubuntu session, starts nautilus which ruins desktop" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/836208

 22:13:35 <charlie-tca> Ouch

 22:13:54 <charlie-tca> yes, that would be. another side-effect of adding Xubuntu to Ubuntu, I guess?

 22:14:24 <charlie-tca> Not sure how we fix it, either, since Nautilus tends to take over pretty good now

 22:15:04 <charlie-tca> See if I can push it to the Ubuntu devs and get someone working on it.

 22:15:13 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 22:15:29 <charlie-tca> * A big thank you to everyone for helping get Beta2 out the door. We now have about three weeks left before the final release of Xubuntu 11.10.

 22:16:12 <charlie-tca> We should have new images tomorrow. We will need to test them pretty good, since we haven't had any for a few days again.

 22:16:51 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit is doing a lot better on bug triage than I am currently.

 22:17:02 <charlie-tca> Thank you for doing that, mr_pouit

 22:17:10 <charlie-tca> Any questions?

 22:17:35 <GridCube> not from me

 22:17:40 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Website & Marketing ====

 22:17:46 <charlie-tca> pleia2: any updates?

 22:18:13 <charlie-tca> knome: any updates?

 22:18:15 <GridCube> o/

 22:18:26 <charlie-tca> go ahead

 22:18:47 * GridCube reiterates his recomendation of Someone reviewing the top10

 22:19:06 <pleia2> knome is working on moving content over to the testing site we have now

 22:19:20 <charlie-tca> Yes, we have that moving to Old Business, GridCube

 22:19:25 <GridCube> ok

 22:19:26 <pleia2> so things are chugging along :)

 22:19:29 <GridCube> :) .. then

 22:19:37 <charlie-tca> pleia2: will we make it for the 11.10 release?

 22:19:50 <pleia2> hopefully!

 22:20:10 <charlie-tca> Thank you, pleia2

 22:20:26 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Artwork ====

 22:20:34 <charlie-tca> ochosi: Are you here today?

 22:21:03 <charlie-tca> madnick: we have not given up on the idea of getting lightdm wallpaper changed yet, at least

 22:21:12 <madnick> good news :)

 22:22:32 <charlie-tca> #topic === Announcements ===

 22:22:50 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-10-03 at 19:00 UTC

 22:22:52 <charlie-tca> * Important dates coming up:

 22:22:54 <charlie-tca> * We are now in UI Freeze and Beta2 Freeze; archives will remain frozen until final release.

 22:22:56 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Final Freeze: September 29

 22:22:58 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 22:23:00 <charlie-tca> * We need to update the Team Reports this week.

 22:23:03 <charlie-tca> Did I miss any announcements?

 22:23:30 <charlie-tca> #topic === Xubuntu Governance ===

 22:23:45 <charlie-tca> #subtopic Nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead

 22:23:47 <knome> huh (hey o/)

 22:24:02 <charlie-tca> * Nominations for project lead are now open.

 22:24:03 <charlie-tca> * Those wishing to nominate themselves or others should do so by email to either mailing list, or myself (charlie-tca@ubuntu.com).

 22:24:05 <charlie-tca> * Nominations will close October 20, 2011, and the community election will be held at the meeting on October 23, 2011. If there are issues with this, please let us know between now and October 20.

 22:24:09 <charlie-tca> Hello, knome

 22:24:16 <charlie-tca> How goes the website change?

 22:24:57 <knome> haven't had time to work on it (or any other FOSS project lately), but it's coming along. we have uploads working now, as well as better-looking permalinks

 22:25:32 <charlie-tca> We have about three weeks to final release of Xubuntu 11.10. Will we make it?

 22:26:05 <knome> yes, it should be a breeze to switch it to production, as it's only server-internal change now

 22:26:46 <charlie-tca> Do you need any help? Is there anything anyone can do to make it happen?

 22:27:35 <knome> i need to go through some content things with pleia2, but other than that, it's just an email to the IS

 22:27:58 <knome> (or content with you, but i understand pleia2 is more aware of the transition stage of the new site than you are)

 22:28:08 <charlie-tca> yup

 22:28:13 <knome> yup

 22:28:19 <knome> so no specific need on anything right now

 22:28:21 <charlie-tca> That's great!

 22:28:31 <charlie-tca> Thank you for working on it

 22:28:36 <knome> just need to upload/insert the content and we're ready to go

 22:28:39 <knome> actually

 22:29:01 <GridCube> o/

 22:29:09 <charlie-tca> go ahead, GridCube

 22:29:10 <knome> now that i said that, we need at least a small change on the css too, but i'm sure IS can work that out the same time we switch to production

 22:29:51 <GridCube> oh, I know im being a bother here, but, knome where do you plan to place the top 10? and is it possible to have multiple translations of it enabled?

 22:29:52 <knome> (it's not more than one-liner, and we can fix the rest later even if it should be more)

 22:30:17 <knome> GridCube, either a page or a blog-post; translations will be available later

 22:30:24 <GridCube> :) ok

 22:30:27 <charlie-tca> Hopefully, IS doesn't need to much time to do things with this. They seem very responsive at this time.

 22:30:28 <knome> page because then it would be dynamic

 22:30:41 <knome> but blog-post maybe because it will become outdated anyway

 22:30:42 <charlie-tca> agreed

 22:30:53 <knome> but that's not something we need to decide now

 22:31:13 <knome> with a page, we'd need to find out where to link it from

 22:31:21 <knome> maybe the footer, or the help page

 22:31:24 <charlie-tca> if it is blog-post, it will need re-writing on a regular basis. If it is a page, it can be re-written, but it could also be updated easier.

 22:31:33 <GridCube> we can work on it every cycle, cant we?

 22:31:45 <charlie-tca> That would be good

 22:31:51 <knome> if it's a blog-post, we can just post a new one, and leave the old "top 10" to be attached to the release

 22:32:00 <knome> eg. this one could be namely the "oneiric top 10"

 22:32:10 <charlie-tca> update with the most asked stuff each release?

 22:32:16 <knome> then just write a new one for O+1, and if we want, we can link to the old top 10's as well

 22:32:28 <charlie-tca> I will add it to the release manager notes

 22:32:30 <GridCube> if things change i guess

 22:32:34 <knome> charlie-tca, yeah, and it's not a problem even if there was the same questions

 22:32:50 <knome> we can always attach release-specific stuff into the blog posts

 22:32:51 <GridCube> oh, screenshots? do you need any?

 22:32:54 <knome> like, "don't do this"

 22:32:58 <charlie-tca> right, but if it is in a blog-post, it usually isn't as visible all the time as a separate page

 22:33:00 <knome> GridCube, you should ask pleia2

 22:33:15 <knome> charlie-tca, we can link to blogposts too on the footer, if we want

 22:33:39 <knome> charlie-tca, in addition to that, it would be visible in the most recent posts area while it's one of the newest posts

 22:33:41 <charlie-tca> That would work, too

 22:34:07 <knome> but as i said, we don't need to decide that now

 22:34:15 <knome> we can decide once we're about to publish it

 22:34:24 <charlie-tca> I just have issues with blog posts disappearing. I bookmark them when I think it is something I will refer back to, and many of them disappear within three to four months

 22:34:35 <GridCube> :) its ok i just wanted to bother about that :P

 22:34:46 <knome> charlie-tca, these won't. that's why we wanted the permalinks

 22:34:47 <charlie-tca> Thank you for asking, GridCube

 22:34:57 <charlie-tca> knome: Thank you for that!

 22:35:05 <knome> charlie-tca, the link will be something like http://xubuntu.org/posts/2011/10/top-10-for-oneiric (iirc)

 22:35:16 <knome> charlie-tca, and it will work almost eternally

 22:35:25 <charlie-tca> Okay, you got that one then

 22:35:49 <charlie-tca> If it don't disappear, I won't care which way we do it

 22:36:05 <charlie-tca> #topic === Any Other Business ===

 22:36:20 <charlie-tca> Any one have anything they would like to discuss?

 22:36:21 <knome> (yup. pages are http://xubuntu.org/page-name, but i don't want to add too much dynamic/outdating stuff there)

 22:36:36 <charlie-tca> I agree with that.

 22:36:48 <madnick> o/

 22:36:51 <micahg> o/

 22:36:52 <GridCube> o/

 22:36:58 <charlie-tca> Too many items would defeat having those available

 22:37:03 <charlie-tca> madnick: go ahead

 22:37:12 <madnick> micahg: i want to talk to you after this, if you have time (about blueman)

 22:37:28 <madnick> sorry for getting offtopic

 22:37:28 <madnick> ..

 22:38:06 <charlie-tca> Can't be offtopic here.

 22:38:13 <charlie-tca> micahg: your turn

 22:38:38 <micahg> docs need a version bump (s/11.04/11.10), could you handle this mr_pouit ?

 22:39:01 <micahg> ..

 22:39:27 <mr_pouit> okay

 22:39:32 <micahg> thanks

 22:39:37 <charlie-tca> GridCube: Your turn now

 22:39:42 <GridCube> ok

 22:39:44 <GridCube> ;)

 22:39:52 <GridCube> i've been working more on my interface

 22:40:04 <GridCube> madnick, has given me a place on one of his servers

 22:40:15 <charlie-tca> :)

 22:40:16 <GridCube> so i can dump my stuff there when we need it

 22:40:39 <GridCube> it can be configurated easily by an admin

 22:40:57 <GridCube> and it can be used now, i only have to work on the search engine

 22:41:08 <charlie-tca> link?

 22:41:12 <GridCube> it should be ended by this week

 22:41:14 <GridCube> yes:

 22:41:15 <charlie-tca> for updating tests?

 22:41:38 <GridCube> http://gridcube.netii.net/test/XTCv2.html

 22:41:47 <GridCube> i could use help on making it pretty :P

 22:42:10 <charlie-tca> I want to make the testers work harder. Please update both google docs and this new test interface this week.

 22:42:30 <charlie-tca> Let's give it a good workout, so we know for sure it will do what we need.

 22:42:32 <GridCube> i mean if we ever add it to something like testings.xubuntu.com  it will look out of place

 22:42:56 <charlie-tca> Yes, well, let's try anyway

 22:43:01 <GridCube> :D awesome!

 22:43:04 <charlie-tca> google docs is out of place too

 22:43:09 <GridCube> :)

 22:43:33 <charlie-tca> madnick: make sure the server is secure. We just made that public

 22:43:33 <GridCube> i tried to make it in the same colors that the current page XD but my css is so bad

 22:43:40 <GridCube> oh

 22:43:48 <GridCube> no, that link is not madnicks

 22:43:51 <madnick> charlie-tca: its secure :) but thats not mine

 22:43:58 <charlie-tca> oh-oh

 22:44:04 <GridCube> i havent send anything there yet

 22:44:11 <charlie-tca> That link will work to update the tests?

 22:44:14 <GridCube> i don't want to mess thins up

 22:44:17 <GridCube> yes

 22:44:19 <GridCube> it will

 22:44:31 <charlie-tca> okay. Let's give it a workout this week then

 22:44:36 <GridCube> :)

 22:44:37 <GridCube> ok

 22:44:48 <GridCube> if all is okay i will send it to madnick's

 22:44:53 <charlie-tca> Okay

 22:45:08 <charlie-tca> Any questions about how to update testing this week?

 22:45:33 <charlie-tca> Any other comments/discussions/anything?

 22:45:50 <GridCube> Can I propose you to Project Leader charlie-tca? not because you just are the current one, but because i think you are doing a pretty good job at it, and I think that thats good :D

 22:45:52 <charlie-tca> I do not currently show any nominations for Project Lead

 22:46:00 <charlie-tca> Yes, you can

 22:46:04 <GridCube> :D t

 22:46:07 <GridCube> then i did

 22:46:38 <charlie-tca> Email it to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, please

 22:46:56 <GridCube> :) will do

 22:46:59 <charlie-tca> I have to keep it official for the records

 22:47:10 <charlie-tca> Anything else?

 22:47:32 <charlie-tca> Let's make it good week ahead then!

 22:47:56 <charlie-tca> Thank you all for participating in this meeting. It sure helps keep the project strong to have you here!

 22:48:06 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
