{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/products/xubuntu-welcome-centre/+spec/xubuntu-welcome-center
* '''Launchpad Product''': https://launchpad.net/products/xubuntu-welcome-centre
* '''Created''': 2006-11-09 by AdamMiller
* '''Contributors''': RadomirDopieralski, CodySomerville, AdamMiller
* '''Packages affected''': none

=== Summary ===
This is an application that will by default start on the live-cd logins and atleast the first time a hard drive installation is booted. Its purpose is to be able to introduce the new user to configuration tools, software installation methods, resources, and other general usage material.

=== Rationale ===

New users are constantly looking for and requesting that all of this content be wrapped together closely, while our website does a wonderful job of this, the average user would benefit much more from having a Welcome Center application present all of these things to them initially and will also help those users lacking an Internet connection at time of installation or use of the live-cd.

The welcome centre will also be an excellent oppertunity for us to sell Xubuntu to the users when they first try out Xubuntu.

=== Design ===

Current draft of content can be found at http://welcome.sheep.art.pl//Xubuntu_Welcome_Centre

Current draft of UI can be found at http://welcome.sheep.art.pl/Screenshots

=== Implementation ===

Current implementation is using python and pygtk. 

Current implementation is subject to ease of development and prototyping in order to create a functional application.

Content is contained in html documents. A special URI system will be implemented to allow the launching of applications by clicking on anchors in the documents.

The "show on next login" toggling is handled by changing the permissions to a launcher file in autostarted-applications directory, or creating the file if it doesn't exist yet.

External urls will launch the system's default web browser.

=== Unresolved issues ===

First official alpha release

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

None as of this publication

=== Development Team ===

RadomirDopieralski
CodySomerville
AdamMiller
----
CategorySpec
