{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 21 Oct at 20:00 &mdash; 21:03 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-10-21-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 20:06.

** ''ACTION:'' : pleia2 to contact unixstickers
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to contact unixstickers
** ''ACTION:'' : knome to write a more formalized proposal about the QA process improvements with elfy after N days of comments/feedback for the pad
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-qa to continue working with v-cycle qa pad
** ''ACTION:'' elfy mail the -devel list to garner comment on pad
** ''ACTION:'' : knome to move the "translations important for xubuntu" list to the processes page, discussion can continue when needed

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 20:23.

** unixstickers has sold plenty of Xubuntu items, so we just need to let them know what we want for the reward based QA program
** unixstickers will also be producing t-shirts soon, production info here: http://www.unixstickers.com/tshirts/underground-t-shirts/the-ultimate-pirate-bay-tshirt
** Image testing has been better for the final image
** upgrade tests though only have 1 result from me so ...
** ''ACTION:'' Any -team member who can do an Upgrade test of some sort - appreciated - concentrate on the Upgrade rather than Upgrade(image)
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-team to watch tracker for respins - if they appear please test what you can
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-qa to ping team in channel if they see respins appear

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 20:29.

* '''Xubuntu+1 support in #xubuntu''' (20:29)
** ''ACTION:'' Elfy to mail -devel re where we support testers
* '''Decide on Trello or Launchpad''' (20:52)
** return to using launchpad, team leads to set out their blueprints
** Trello can be used by subteams if they feel it's useful for them, but all general cooperation should go through LP

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** : knome to write a more formalized proposal about the QA process improvements with elfy after N days of comments/feedback for the pad
** elfy mail the -devel list to garner comment on pad
* knome
** : knome to write a more formalized proposal about the QA process improvements with elfy after N days of comments/feedback for the pad
** : knome to move the "translations important for xubuntu" list to the processes page, discussion can continue when needed
* pleia2
** : pleia2 to contact unixstickers
* xubuntu-qa
** xubuntu-qa to continue working with v-cycle qa pad
** xubuntu-qa to ping team in channel if they see respins appear
* **UNASSIGNED**
** Any -team member who can do an Upgrade test of some sort - appreciated - concentrate on the Upgrade rather than Upgrade(image)
** xubuntu-team to watch tracker for respins - if they appear please test what you can
** Elfy to mail -devel re where we support testers

=== Done items ===

* pleia2 to contact unixstickers

=== People present (lines said) ===

* elfy (120)
* knome (80)
* pleia2 (26)
* slickymaster (24)
* meetingology (16)
* xnox (6)
* jjfrv8-work (4)
* ali1234 (4)
* dkessel (4)
* mikodo (3)
* xubuntu-qa (0)
