{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 18 Mar at 18:01 &mdash; 18:21 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-03-18-18.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 18:03.

* '''Wallpaper Contest''' (18:06)
* '''Slideshow''' (18:06)
* '''Gnome software''' (18:07)

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 18:07.

* '''Change to Strategy Document''' (18:08)

==== Discussions ====
The discussion about "Discussions" started at 18:09.

* '''Final Beta''' (18:11)
* '''Core/Base image''' (18:13)
* '''PDF's in Documentation''' (18:15)

==== Any other business ====
The discussion about "Any other business" started at 18:19.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 18:21.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (57)
* knome (20)
* Nairwolf (7)
* kryten (4)
* meetingology (3)
* Robin___ (3)
* slickymasterWork (2)
