{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== *** DRAFT *** DRAFT *** DRAFT *** DRAFT *** DRAFT *** ==

''' This is a draft of the release notes for Xubuntu Oneiric Ocelot Alpha Releases '''

These notes are a work in progress, and are not meant to be anything more than a draft for the actual release notes.

=== Alpha Notes ===

* Micahg has done several bugs to sync the latest Xfce packages from Debian.
* xfce4-notifyd conflicts with notification-daemon
* Alpha1 images are very much oversized
* Firefox 5 is in alpha1; Note firefox version including stable or beta in release notes.

==== Alpha1 Release Notes ====

* No significant changes were made for Alpha1.
* alpha1 images are too big to fit on a CD. Please use either a DVD or USB to install this development release.

==== Alpha2 Release Notes ====

<nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/LightDM|lightdm]]</nowiki> replaced GDM as the login manager.

<nowiki>[[http://xarchiver.sourceforge.net/|xarchiver]]</nowiki> replaced file-roller due to nautilus dependency with file-roller. This will allow testing xarchiver to determine how well it fits the requirements of Xubuntu. 

<nowiki>[[http://tarot.freeshell.org/leafpad/|leafpad]]</nowiki> replaced mousepad; mousepad needs a maintainer in Xfce. This will also allow Xubuntu to drop xfprint4, which is used only by mousepad.

<nowiki>[[http://trac.emma-soft.com/epdfview/|epdfview]]</nowiki> has replaced evince as the default pdf viewer. Fewer resources required by epdfview better fit the needs of Xubuntu.

Users '''must''' select a session when logging in the first time. If no session is selected, the user will see the Ubuntu wallpaper, and nothing else. In this case, go to a tty using Ctrl+Alt+F2, login, and type <code>sudo service lightdm restart</code>. Now the user can login again, and select the session. 

* GTK3 itself will probably be on the CD due to some shared apps, but Xfce is staying on GTK2.
* squeeze is still using thunar-vfs and isn't really maintained upstream anyway at this time (not installed by default)
* Alpha 2 includes the 3.0-rc5 kernel which is based on the latest mainline release candidate kernel at kernel milestone freeze <nowiki>[[http://kernel.org|kernel]]</nowiki>.  This is an update from the v2.6.39 in Alpha 1.
* User must choose a session when logging in after an installation or upgrade. (Bug:799754)
* Live system and installs use the wrong default settings for background images, indicators, and others. (Bug:803499, Bug:804734)
* Live session can not be started. (Bug:799238)
