{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== 2010-01-10 Meeting Minutes ==

=== In Attendance ===

* Pasi (knome) â€“ chair
* Steve (SiDi)
* Charlie (charlie-tca)
* Jim (j1mc)
* Lionel (mr_pouit)
* (lmn)
* (raevol)
* Partly: Cody (cody-somerville)
* Partly: (dhillon-v10)
* Visited: (Sysi)

=== Minutes ===

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* Lionel will act as Project Leader (PL) as per the current Strategy Document and is tasked with considering the formation of a council.
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

==== Agenda items for the next meeting ====

* Discuss about the new team structure in the next meeting.

==== Team reports and announcements ====

* General
** Michael (NCommander) takes some time off Xubuntu development; ENOTIME.
* Development
** Lionel has done great traging and fixing bugs.
* Documentation
** Jim has written new docs for xfce4-screenshooter in Mallard.
** Jim is working on and recruiting for both the Xubuntu and Xfce documentation.
* Artwork
** Shimmer announced the deadline for Albatross 0.2 to be 1st of March so we will have time to incorporate it into Lucid, if decided so.
** Charlie files bugs about Albatross accessibility issues so the artwork guys can work on them.

==== To be done... ====

* Continue looking how 4.8 is progressing and possible include it in Lucid.
* Artwork team to look on Plymouth and plan on creating a theme.
* Marketing team to look after <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubiquity-slideshow|Ubiquity slideshows]]</nowiki>.
* Pasi and Jim continue theming the Xubuntu documentation.
