{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by knome at 17:00:17 UTC. Meeting ended at 17:45:29 UTC. The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2012/xubuntu-devel.2012-02-01-17.00.log.html.

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Business carried on ====
* Review the 'default shortcut keys' -blueprint  (knome, 17:00:51)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/DefaultShortcutKeys   (knome, 17:02:10)
** Anyone: give feedback about proposed default shortcuts  (knome, 17:07:32)

==== Team updates ====
* Packaging and Development  (knome, 17:08:32)
** The Shimmer Project themes are about to be moved from murrine-themes to shimmer-themes  (knome, 17:10:17)
** mr_pouit fixed some xfce4-power-manager bugs  (micahg, 17:11:17)
** there's an updated synaptic with some bug fixes from Debian, but it failed to build, I'll fix it after alpha2  (micahg, 17:12:24)
** new ristretto with bugfixes syncd  (micahg, 17:12:40)
** if there are any package version  updates people want, Feature Freeze is Feb 16, so ideally we should do it before then  (micahg, 17:13:31)
* Bug Triage, Testing and Documentation  (knome, 17:14:06)
** Testing the Alpha2 milestones this week  (knome, 17:15:53)
** Desktop images are being rebuilt now. Alternates may be rebuilt yet  (knome, 17:16:05)
** Need help getting these tested as they rebuild. The newest ones should be 20120201.1  (knome, 17:16:13)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to look at maybe-ubiquity retheming  (knome, 17:18:45)
* Marketing, Artwork and Website  (knome, 17:21:47)
** knome and I have finished up the edits required to go live with the new wordpress website  (pleia2, 17:22:30)
** there are some content edits we may want, but I don't want to wait on those because there will probably always be content edits  (pleia2, 17:22:59)
** some content edits todo: developertools/, press/, about/  (knome, 17:23:35)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to create a ticket in RT for releasing the new website!  (knome, 17:26:25)
** ''ACTION:'' knome and pleia2 to prepare writing an alpha2 release announcement with others if needed  (knome, 17:32:30)
** there is a wallpaper draft at http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/precise_wall/  (knome, 17:34:26)
** any feedback is welcome in the following week  (knome, 17:34:56)
** if everything seems fine, we'll formally decide about using the wallpaper in the meeting next week  (knome, 17:35:46)

==== Announcements ====
* Xubuntu LTS proposal for 3-year LTS releases is accepted.  (knome, 17:38:34)

==== Other business ====
* Open action items from previous meeting  (knome, 17:38:58)
** ''ACTION:'' GridCube to gather a list of problems with QA tracker  (knome, 17:39:25)
** This action item will be removed in the next meeting if no issues are raised.  (knome, 17:39:53)
** knome to keep investigating possibilities of getting Ubiquity "application sets" included is done - astraljava is working on it  (knome, 17:41:01)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise  (knome, 17:41:29)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to look at the thunderbird button issue  (knome, 17:41:56)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu  (knome, 17:42:24)
* Meeting next week is postponed to 18UTC.  (knome, 17:45:08)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to inform the devel ML about the changes  (knome, 17:45:19)

=== Action items, by person ===
* GridCube
** GridCube to gather a list of problems with QA tracker
* knome
** knome to look at maybe-ubiquity retheming
** knome and pleia2 to prepare writing an alpha2 release announcement with others if needed
** knome to inform the devel ML about the changes
* micahg
** micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise
** micahg to look at the thunderbird button issue
* mr_pouit
** micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise
* pleia2
** pleia2 to create a ticket in RT for releasing the new website!
** knome and pleia2 to prepare writing an alpha2 release announcement with others if needed
* ochosi
** ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (86)
* charlie-tca (20)
* pleia2 (18)
* meetingology (11)
* micahg (6)
* kurapika (2)
* astraljava (2)
* scott-work (2)
* Unit193 (1)
* madnick (0)
