{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 23 Jan at 19:00 &mdash; 19:28 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-01-23-19.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 19:01.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (19:01)
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ''ACTION:'' knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** ''ACTION:'' knome to look into the graphics problem with bug 1207493
** ''ACTION:'' lderan to update list of apps we can work autopilot with
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
* '''Enabling more people to push to Xubuntu branches (separate branches team, or would -team do?)''' (19:04)
* '''Social media outlet interaction (see details on the marketing blueprint whiteboard)''' (19:04)
* '''Status of Bluetooth in Xubuntu; what kind of testing we want to run, which software we want to use?''' (19:06)
** ''ACTION:'' team members that are able to test/use bluetooth stuff, consider which software they would like to use, if it matters
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send an email to the mailing list re: bluetooth
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to poke Noskcaj if time-admin and users-admin do not exist in the next daily
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj to fix up the mess if elfy pokes him
* '''Discuss documentation translations''' (19:17)

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:17.

** Alpha2 report - 64bit - 19 tests - only real fail was autoresize, but that fix is released. 32bit - 26 tests - some more issues here, main issue was the autoresize one though.
** A2 contnued - 12 people tested this time AND reported, no idea how many tests were undertaken elsewhere
** package testing - last call was for xubuntu applications - we've had 16 reported results against those
** next package testing call will be for the settings manager in 2 weeks
** several a/pilot tests ready for merge requests
** finding some that don't work well - gimp (and the mines game)
** light-locker and mugshot are now available for us to deal with testing, -QA are looking at that now
** knome rescued some ISO's for old-releases archive
** ''ACTION:'' ~QA to write tests for new packages, sync to tracker and call for testing
** many more 4.11 parts now available
** menulibre in official repos
** gthumb 3.3 is out, needs upload
** there's an initial draft of the Mugshot documentation at http://smdavis.us/doku/doku.php?id=mugshot-docs

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:23.

** Alpha 2 is released!
** 12.04.4, the last point release for Precise, will be released on Feb 6

==== New and emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 19:25.

* '''Meeting structure''' (19:25)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to update the meeting page to incorporate the new structure (all longer agenda items at the end of the meeting)
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (19:27)
** Next meeting Thu 30 Jan 19UTC
** ''ACTION:'' knome and Unit193 to prepare a mail for xubuntu-core reviewing and send it to the mailing list

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
* elfy
** elfy to poke Noskcaj if time-admin and users-admin do not exist in the next daily
** Noskcaj to fix up the mess if elfy pokes him
* knome
** knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** knome to look into the graphics problem with bug 1207493
** knome to send an email to the mailing list re: bluetooth
** knome to update the meeting page to incorporate the new structure (all longer agenda items at the end of the meeting)
** knome and Unit193 to prepare a mail for xubuntu-core reviewing and send it to the mailing list
* lderan
** lderan to update list of apps we can work autopilot with
* Noskcaj
** elfy to poke Noskcaj if time-admin and users-admin do not exist in the next daily
** Noskcaj to fix up the mess if elfy pokes him
* ochosi
** ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
* ~QA
** ~QA to write tests for new packages, sync to tracker and call for testing
* team
** team members that are able to test/use bluetooth stuff, consider which software they would like to use, if it matters
* Unit193
** knome and Unit193 to prepare a mail for xubuntu-core reviewing and send it to the mailing list

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (100)
* elfy (25)
* meetingology (19)
* Noskcaj (18)
* ali1234 (8)
* slickymaster (8)
* brainwash (7)
* jjfrv8 (4)
* Unit193 (2)
* ubottu (1)
* team (0)
