{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Xubuntu team report for January, 2011 ====

'''HAPPY NEW YEAR!'''

===== Bug Triage =====

* Triaged over 100 bugs this month. 
 

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Packaged Xfce4.8 for Natty Narwhal
* Menus in Xfce 4.8 are now editable with any menu editor that meets the freedesktop.org standards. Suggested editor is "alacarte".

===== Website & Marketing =====

* The website theme and logo were updated.
* Xubuntu needs a Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Artwork =====

* We still need a good plymouth theme. 
* We have drawn up artwork specs for Xubuntu wallpaper, and any input is welcomed.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/0007_Xubuntu_Natty_Wallpaper
* The new gtk and xfwm4 theme for Xubuntu is now in Natty Narwhal. It is called "greybird".
* The new panel layout including a launcher panel was added to Natty.
* The elementaryXubuntu icon theme has been updated.
* Xubuntu is using the Droid font for default, since it is a lightweight, good visibility font.
* Xubuntu needs an Artwork Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to get word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* The Xubuntu Community holds a regular meeting on Thursday at 19:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.
* Minutes and Logs from the meetings are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings.
* The community meeting was held on 2011-01-13, 2011-01-20 and 2011-01-27
* The Xubuntu approved Charlie Kravetz as Project Lead

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com
* Xubuntu documentation for 10.04.2 has been updated and accepted
* Xubuntu documentation for Natty is being updated by Book_em_Dano
