{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for July 2008'''

===== Artwork =====

* JMak has completed the GDM theme for Intrepid.

===== Community =====

* Final draft of the Xubuntu Strategy Document has been completed. This will be presented to the Community Council at the next meeting.
* Held a community meeting on July 12, 2008. Draft plan to update the website was discussed. Status of xfce4.6 was agreed upon.
 

===== Documentation =====

* Many updates completed on Xubuntu Wiki

===== Marketing =====

* Organized the team for the update of the ''''''Xubuntu.org'''''' website

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Released Hardy Heron 8.04.01.
* Released Intrepid Alpha 1 and 2.
* Added catfish to desktop-recommends.
* Added yelp to desktop-recommends.
* Moved avahi-daemon to desktop-recommends.
* Moved gnome-system-tools to desktop-recommends.
* Moved xfce4-mcs-plugins-extra to desktop-recommends.
* Moved xfce4-terminal to desktop-recommends.
* Added xfce4-mixer to panel by default.
* Set catfish as search command for places plugin.
* Started wiki page on <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Development/Performance|performance]]</nowiki> and began collecting data.
* Xubuntu Testing is looking for a Team Leader. This is an important part of every release. Since we have already released Intrepid Ibex Alpha 1, the need for Test Leader is imperative. Please contact <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodySomerville|Cody Somerville]]</nowiki> if you are interested.

===== Website =====

* Xubuntu is in need of people skilled in Artwork, CSS and HTML for the update of the ''''''Xubuntu.org'''''' website.
* Xubuntu website project status information is available on the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/SpecialProjects|Special Projects]]</nowiki> page.
