{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 14 Jan at 21:59 &mdash; 22:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-01-14-21.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:01.

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 22:04.

** QA - nothing much done since last meeting
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to draft stickers+incentives blog post for QA contributor giveaways
** light-locker integration added to xfce4 power - manager
** knome worked on updating and improving the responsive design for documentation
** pleia2 firmed up Global Jam Xubuntu QA event at Gandi on Sunday, February 8th (2000 - 0100 UTC)
** knome looked at exporting docbook to pdf - exports look pretty bare/bad and images are not working correctly; the exports might not be worth it since doing that requires substantially more dependencies
** light-locker-settings removed from the seed.
** knome and pleia2 added press/marketing contact information to xubuntu.org
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to update docs.xubuntu.org, knome has updated the bzr repo
** knome has worked hard on refreshing the website looks to match 2015/the OS
** knome created a page with all mirrors mirroring xubuntu ISOs
** mirror.anl.gov (our preferred US mirror) is shutting down services on feb 1, we need to list another US mirror
** knome finalized and copied a better looking mailman info page to -devel and -users
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to copy mailman info page assets under static.xubuntu.org
** knome cleaned up the processes wiki page, organizing stuff under subpages; feedback welcome on irc/mailing list
** ''ACTION:'' knome to set up a repository for static.xubuntu.org content

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 22:12.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:17.

* '''Discuss replacing gnome-calculator with galculator (to get rid of CSD)''' (22:17)
** ''LINK:'' https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-v-marketing 
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** pleia2 to update docs.xubuntu.org, knome has updated the bzr repo
** knome to set up a repository for static.xubuntu.org content
* pleia2
** pleia2 to draft stickers+incentives blog post for QA contributor giveaways
** pleia2 to update docs.xubuntu.org, knome has updated the bzr repo
** pleia2 to copy mailman info page assets under static.xubuntu.org
** pleia2 to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* slickymaster (56)
* elfy (35)
* knome (29)
* pleia2 (28)
* bluesabre (11)
* meetingology (9)
* Unit193 (5)
* dkessel (1)
