{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 31 May at 22:00 &mdash; 22:44 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2017/xubuntu-devel.2017-05-31-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:01.

** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to get the Thunar SRU out
** thunar SRU, still in progress, hasn't been released into proposed yet, will be nudging, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunar/+bug/1679488

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:03.

** xfce4-weather-plugin SRU, also not yet released to -proposed, https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-weather-plugin/+bug/1688056

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:10.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to figure out some marketing stuff for getting ideas for the slideshow
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to follow up on gnome-font-viewer inclusion and set up team vote
** ''ACTION:'' knome to poke infinity about xubuntu core/base again
** ''ACTION:'' knome to update the contest website plugin from staging
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to put up a wikipage for traking GTK3-enabled components of Xfce in Xubuntu
** ''ACTION:'' council to have a talk about meetings before milestones

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 22:44.

** ''ACTION:'' slickymasterWork to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to get the Thunar SRU out
** bluesabre to follow up on gnome-font-viewer inclusion and set up team vote
** bluesabre to put up a wikipage for traking GTK3-enabled components of Xfce in Xubuntu
* council
** council to have a talk about meetings before milestones
* knome
** knome to figure out some marketing stuff for getting ideas for the slideshow
** knome to poke infinity about xubuntu core/base again
** knome to update the contest website plugin from staging
* slickymasterWork
** slickymasterWork to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (77)
* bluesabre (55)
* flocculant (48)
* meetingology (12)
* slickymasterWork (8)
* Unit193 (5)
* ubottu (2)
* pleia2 (2)
* council (0)
