{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2011-01-13 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* oshosi will get the discussion started on the ML for default applications in Natty - DONE
* pleia2 to check on converting website to new logo and icons - carried forward
** cody-somerville has not gotten a message back to pleia2 yet, and that is holding up action 
* charlie-tca to get thorwil and ochosi together about artwork - carried forward
* charlie-tca to start the discussion about default launchers on the ML - carried forward

=== Team updates ===
==== Packaging & Development ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Natty/Xfce4.8
* Xfce4.8 is scheduled for release this Sunday
* mr_pouit and micahg to discuss possible backport of Xfce4.8
* uploaded xfce4-power-manager 1.0.3
* patched xfce4-session to lock the screen on suspend/hibernate

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* We have triaged about 70 bugs this week
* I went through all the 10.04 bugs, and we don't actually have any critical to the release

==== Website & Marketing ====

* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation

==== Artwork ====

* ochosi has done a lot of work on greybird
** please take a look at them if you have time, and give some feedback
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty

==== Documentation ====

* as many people as possible need to review the latest docs in bzr
** lp:xubuntu-docs is the lastest branch of the documentation

=== Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2 ===

* The freeze for 10.04.2 is 2011-01-20
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NattyReleaseInterlock
* we need to get anything for 10.04.2 into -proposed by next thursday

=== Announcements ===

* Community Council received a single nomination for Project Lead.
* If there are no objections raised, we can confirm charlie-tca by simple vote.
* pleia2 suggests sending an email to the list prior to asking for votes and will be the contact person for these confirmation votes.
  
=== Any Other Business ===

* No other business was brought up
* Next meeting is in one week, January 20, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-01-13 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Action items for the 2011-01-13 meeting ===

* take the discussion about default launchers to the ML - carried forward

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

== 2011-01-06 Meeting Log ==

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting

People Present:

* charlie-tca
* beardygnome
* mr_pouit

[13:06:43] <charlie-tca> I think we should start this meeting.

[13:07:11] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] The agenda is available for everyone at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[13:07:41] <charlie-tca> hm, the meeting bot is an hour off today

[13:08:11] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old business

[13:08:23] <charlie-tca> first we have updates for http://xubuntu.org

[13:08:56] <charlie-tca> cody-somerville has not gotten a message back to pleia2 yet, and that is holding up action

[13:09:50] <beardygnome> is cody-somerville here?

[13:09:55] <charlie-tca> next, we have the discussion started on the ML for default applications in Natty

[13:10:12] <charlie-tca> He is probably in Dallas, but I don't know for sure

[13:10:22] <charlie-tca> He is not answering today

[13:10:35] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: we seem to have generated quite a discussion

[13:11:05] <charlie-tca> My own thoughts are that if chrome is updating monthly, maybe it is still beta even if they are not calling it that.

[13:11:26] <charlie-tca> and I would then recommend we stay with firefox

[13:11:30] <mr_pouit> it seems to be rather stable though

[13:11:51] <charlie-tca> Your choice

[13:12:00] <beardygnome> even though i prefer chromium, i'm happy with that decision for the default

[13:12:18] <charlie-tca> I do not want applications changed to give us a lower memory footprint versus usability.

[13:12:30] <mr_pouit> well, let's wait for a consensus on the ml, I'm happy with both (either firefox or chormium)

[13:12:32] <beardygnome> chrome updates are every 6 weeks or so and they are bumping up the version numbers rapidly

[13:12:44] <charlie-tca> good enough.

[13:12:56] <charlie-tca> Anyone else had a chance to test lightdm?

[13:13:12] <beardygnome> is it packaged for maverick?

[13:13:24] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: also, claws-mail really is not as easy to setup as thunderbird, yet

[13:13:39] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: no, I don't believe it is

[13:13:50] <charlie-tca> and the ppa requires a lot of work to get it installed

[13:13:52] <mr_pouit> I never tested it, but I heard it has a 'weird' ui ;>

[13:14:05] <charlie-tca> claws-mail?

[13:14:07] <mr_pouit> yeah

[13:14:25] <charlie-tca> it is difficult to set up compared to thunderbird and evolution

[13:14:34] <mr_pouit> okay

[13:15:04] <charlie-tca> With a good possiblity of Ubuntu moving to Thunderbird in O, I think we are in a good position keeping it

[13:15:38] <beardygnome> i agree

[13:15:54] <charlie-tca> anything else on default apps?

[13:16:34] <charlie-tca> midori just isn't ready until we can transfer the bookmarks

[13:16:44] <charlie-tca> Next, we have take the discussion about default launchers to the ML

[13:16:56] <charlie-tca> I don't remember if this got started or not?

[13:17:49] <charlie-tca> I guess I should take an action for it, then

[13:18:00] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] take the discussion about default launchers to the ML

[13:18:32] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Team updates

[13:18:48] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit for packaging and development updates?

[13:19:59] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Xfce4.8 is scheduled for release this Sunday

[13:20:08] <mr_pouit> yeah

[13:20:16] <charlie-tca> any updates on the rest?

[13:20:18] <mr_pouit> not much activity this week for packaging :>

[13:20:34] <mr_pouit> uploaded xfce4-power-manager 1.0.3

[13:20:35] <charlie-tca> I would be surprised if there was, with that comingup

[13:20:53] <mr_pouit> and patched xfce4-session to lock the screen on suspend/hibernate

[13:21:10] <mr_pouit> I think that's all

[13:21:17] <charlie-tca> Great! we been looking forward to the lock

[13:21:30] <charlie-tca> thank you, mr_pouit

[13:21:35] <charlie-tca> Bug Triage & Testing

[13:21:56] <charlie-tca> We have triaged about 70 bugs this week

[13:22:13] <mr_pouit> yay, abiword spam attack in my mailbox :P

[13:22:16] <charlie-tca> I went through all the 10.04 bugs, and we don't actually have any critical to the release

[13:22:31] <charlie-tca> yup, I did that, too, huh?

[13:23:16] <charlie-tca> We do have broken images again.

[13:23:33] <charlie-tca> libwebkit is replaced by libwebkitgtk, I think it is?

[13:23:49] <charlie-tca> Do we fix that?

[13:25:15] <mr_pouit> I think it will be fixed "automagically" (i.e. we don't depend on webkit directly, so I guess it's ok)

[13:25:25] <charlie-tca> I will need to get in touch with the documentation person, so we get lucid docs done

[13:25:55] <charlie-tca> Okay, I hope so. Ubuntu live cd doesn't have the error today, so maybe we will be okay tomorrow

[13:26:30] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2

[13:26:59] <charlie-tca> we need to get anything for 10.04.2 into -proposed by next thursday

[13:27:37] <charlie-tca> I think the docs will make it, and micahg said he will try to get them in if they are done

[13:27:57] <charlie-tca> We can do that, right, mr_pouit ?

[13:28:31] <mr_pouit> yeah, it looks ok

[13:28:48] <charlie-tca> Thank you

[13:28:56] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

[13:29:10] <charlie-tca> well, I don't seem to have any announcements today.

[13:29:33] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

[13:29:49] <charlie-tca> anyone have anything we missed or needs to be brought up?

[13:30:10] <mr_pouit> nothing from me =]

[13:30:18] <beardygnome> not from me

[13:30:34] <charlie-tca> I like this, nice and short today

[13:30:48] <charlie-tca> Not having any more to discuss, let's end.

[13:30:52] <mr_pouit> well, we were 3, it's easy to make a short meeting ;)

[13:30:55] <charlie-tca> Thanks for making it to the meeting

[13:30:59] <beardygnome> oh, i did have one thing...

[13:31:09] <beardygnome> i've been testing greybird

[13:31:11] <charlie-tca> well, go ahead, beardygnome

[13:31:32] <charlie-tca> Is it working for you?

[13:32:02] <beardygnome> i got one bug fixed and i've found a couple more that i'll report on the ml

[13:32:29] <beardygnome> nopthing major, just some icons that belnd in a bit too well with the panel

[13:32:34] <charlie-tca> Thanks for doing those tests! It sure helps to know it isn't just me looking at this stuff

[13:32:41] <beardygnome> *nothing, *blend

[13:32:50] <mr_pouit> you can also report them on #shimmer if you need to discuss directly with ochosi btw

[13:33:05] <beardygnome> i think a screenshot will suffice

[13:33:19] <beardygnome> can i send attachments on the ml, or should i host it elsewhere?

[13:33:50] <charlie-tca> Can send attachments.

[13:34:12] <beardygnome> that's good - i'll screenshot my panel and drop it on the ml

[13:34:25] <charlie-tca> that works

[13:34:51] <charlie-tca> anything else?

[13:35:09] <beardygnome> that's all then. been really busy at work, but hoping to get around to the rest of the docs next week

[13:35:29] <charlie-tca> thanks again. I know your time is valuable and I appreciate you both making the meeting.

[13:35:35] <beardygnome> i've reviewed sections 1 to 6 so far

[13:35:47] <charlie-tca> There is a lot to do yet

[13:35:59] <beardygnome> on the docs or in general?

[13:36:15] <charlie-tca> I saw a message that the docs were available in html now, didn't I?

[13:36:31] <charlie-tca> docs, mostly.

[13:36:38] <beardygnome> i haven't seen that message

[13:36:53] <beardygnome> but i've been quite focused on the day job this passed week

[13:37:35] <charlie-tca> Might be all in my mind, too

[13:37:49] <charlie-tca> Okay, let's go back to work then...

[13:37:53] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Meeting ended.
