{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 15 Jul at 10:08 &mdash; 10:58 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-07-15-10.08.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 10:11.

** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster Add core information to FAQ

==== Default irc client ====
The discussion about "Default irc client" started at 10:15.

** ''ACTION:'' elfy Inform the team on the mailinglist about potential bugs/regressions of hexchat over xchat

==== Gksu/do ====
The discussion about "Gksu/do" started at 10:21.

** ''LINK:'' https://trello.com/c/wn31wIF5/81-add-core-information-to-faq 
** ''LINK:'' http://pastebin.com/G2nGpEdt <- for xfce4-terminal
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to talk with folks in #ubuntu-devel about the upsides/downsides of gksu and pkexec and then inform the team
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to set up a page on the ubuntu-wiki collecting apps that potentially need a pkexec profile and send an email to the list to get users to contribute to the list

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 10:34.

** The Marketing blueprint has been updated with plans for this cycle https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-u-marketing
** bug #1299743 is now Fix Committed status
** bluesabre now has upload rights for the xubuntu packageset
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to review applications shipped by xubuntu to make sure they are in the xubuntu packageset (menulibre is not currently included)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi and bluesabre to work on blog posting for xubuntu.org about the resolved black screen bug (for 14.04.1)
** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to write up a draft for "things to do after a 12.04->14.04 upgrade"
** xubuntu-dev PPAs are growing with an increased number of packages for trusty and utopic - https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ubuntu/xubuntu-staging - https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ubuntu/extras

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:51.

** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to investigate what packages would be pulled in for being able to use Parole's clutter backend

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 10:56.

** Xfce packages are now accepted under the MRE (micro release exceptions). Thanks Jackson!

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 10:57.

** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre is to set up the next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to set up a page on the ubuntu-wiki collecting apps that potentially need a pkexec profile and send an email to the list to get users to contribute to the list
** bluesabre to review applications shipped by xubuntu to make sure they are in the xubuntu packageset (menulibre is not currently included)
** ochosi and bluesabre to work on blog posting for xubuntu.org about the resolved black screen bug (for 14.04.1)
** bluesabre to investigate what packages would be pulled in for being able to use Parole's clutter backend
** bluesabre is to set up the next meeting
* ochosi
** ochosi to talk with folks in #ubuntu-devel about the upsides/downsides of gksu and pkexec and then inform the team
** ochosi and bluesabre to work on blog posting for xubuntu.org about the resolved black screen bug (for 14.04.1)
* **UNASSIGNED**
** slickymaster Add core information to FAQ
** elfy Inform the team on the mailinglist about potential bugs/regressions of hexchat over xchat
** slickymaster to write up a draft for "things to do after a 12.04->14.04 upgrade"

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (129)
* bluesabre (62)
* slickymasterWork (42)
* pleia2 (16)
* meetingology (13)
* ubottu (2)
* xubutrello (1)
