{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Including apt-offline on LiveCD ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: 1px solid #888; width: 100%;" -2> Overview
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Title'''
| Include apt-offline by default on LiveCD to improve package access in bandwidth challenged use scenarios
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Blueprint'''
| -
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Assignee'''
| -
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Release'''
| Quantal Quetzal
|}

=== Detailed specification ===

Users in bandwidth-challenged scenarios are presented with a chicken-and-egg problem in terms of updating repositories.  Nothing in the basic minimum package list let alone included within xubuntu-desktop provides a way to execute the equivalent of "apt-get update" on a separate machine.  The upstream apt-offline package, which also has the associated apt-offline-gui Qt-based wrapper, allows for not just repository scans separate from a machine but also package download and load.

Inclusion of this relatively small tool on the LiveCD in addition to being something installed connected with xubuntu-desktop would avoid chicken-and-egg problems by allowing from the outset the ability to update machines regardless of connectivity status.  This would broaden access to Xubuntu in a way that would bridge digital divides through allowing community cooperation in updating machines.  This also serves the purpose of improving end-user security by removing a lack of Internet connection from being an excuse for not patching one's system.
