{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2011-03-10 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* Xubuntu marketing plans - Started/closed
* ochosi and knome will put together some logo designs to be discussed as the menu icon - Closed
* ask knome to do some drafts with a grey background and a black background - carried forward
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward/after natty releases
* put workspace switcher back in the current configuration for natty - Done

=== Team updates ===

==== Packaging & Development ====

* uploaded new greybird
* fixed a few default settings' issues
* blacklisted a few indicators in xfce4-indicator (e.g. indicator-appmenu, we don't want it)
* fixed a crash in xfce4-terminal, and patched xfce4-settings to solve the long standing bugs wrt sticky keys

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* no update this week

==== Website & Marketing ====

* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.

==== Artwork ====

* greybird is now fixed to theme gdm.
* ochosi improved the xfce4-notification style so that it's more contrasty and easier to see
* There has been a new release of the elementary icons upstream as promised and that includes quite a few fixes for us
* Wallpapers were discussed and voted on; the top two will be given one week to add finishing touches and the default will be chosen next meeting.
** Xubuntu received many excellent submissions at http://www.flickr.com/groups/uawt-7/pool/
** Top wallpapers as voted on:
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-uawt-7
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/pr09studio/5277600138/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5224255554/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/tylana/5343925114/in/pool-1546142@N20/

=== Announcements ===

* Natty Narwhal Alpha3 released 2011-03-03!
* Anyone wants to go to UDS-O needs to submit their application for sponsorship, please

=== Any Other Business ===

* Charlie as Project Lead will draw up a proposal to be added the the Xubuntu Strategy Document for choosing a new Project Lead by community vote
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument
* Next meeting is in one week, March 17, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-03-10 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Action items for the 2011-3-10 meeting ===

* No action items
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

== 2011-03-10 Meeting Log ==

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** knome
** pleia2
** micahg
** Sysi
** beardygnome
** thorwil

[13:02:24] <charlie-tca> This is the Xubuntu Community Meeting. The full agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[13:02:44] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old business

[13:02:59] <charlie-tca> we have several items to go through, the first being

[13:03:14] <charlie-tca> Xubuntu marketing plans

[13:03:17] <knome> marketing plans: most pending on the new WP site, and we're still waiting for access to staging.xubuntu.org

[13:03:33] <knome> xubuntu blog is now aggregated to planet ubuntu.

[13:03:37] <charlie-tca> Thank you, knome

[13:03:47] <charlie-tca> Can we close this one now?

[13:03:47] <knome> afaik, there is no other progress. am i right, pleia2?

[13:03:54] <pleia2> and ochosi's artwork post hit the planet yesterday, yay :)

[13:03:56] <pleia2> that's it

[13:04:07] <knome> let's close it for now, we can reopen it once we get progress with WP

[13:04:14] <charlie-tca> Thank you

[13:04:20] <charlie-tca> next we have - ochosi and knome will put together some logo designs to be discussed as the menu icon

[13:04:21] <knome> wp meaning wordpress, not wallpaper ;)

[13:04:24] <charlie-tca> This is closed

[13:04:38] <knome> yeah, it's pretty much not possible...

[13:04:44] <charlie-tca> There's a problem with how the new panel handles the menu-icon. ochosi filed a bug about it upstream since the new app-menu button is always scaled down to square size. There's not much room for improvement over the current icon.

[13:04:51] <knome> http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/panel-menu-icon-2.png is the latest draft, though

[13:05:06] <charlie-tca> We keep trying, at least

[13:05:27] <knome> yep.

[13:05:31] <knome> we're investigating.

[13:05:38] <charlie-tca> This is website, I think - ask knome to do some drafts with a grey background and a black background

[13:05:46] <knome> umm, just a sec

[13:06:04] <knome> i'm sure i did one, but that's not online for some reason

[13:06:15] <charlie-tca> okay, I will carry it forward

[13:06:26] <knome> yup, i'll continue working with that with pleia2

[13:06:33] <charlie-tca> There is also the tele-conference for marketing, any status?

[13:07:00] <knome> still moving forward, probably post-natty

[13:07:05] <charlie-tca> and then we have - put workspace switcher back in the current configuration for natty

[13:07:05] <knome> so we can close that as well

[13:07:08] <charlie-tca> and this is done

[13:07:48] <charlie-tca> that takes of old business, next

[13:07:54] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Team updates

[13:07:59] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Artwork

[13:08:15] <charlie-tca> greybird is now fixed to theme gdm.

[13:08:24] <knome> (yay)

[13:08:26] <charlie-tca> ochosi improved the xfce4-notification style so that it's more contrasty and easier to see

[13:08:40] <charlie-tca> There has been a new release of the elementary icons upstream as promised and that includes quite a few fixes for us

[13:09:02] <charlie-tca> and we will be choosing a wallpaper

[13:09:11] <knome> *a default wallpaper

[13:09:14] <charlie-tca> We have many excellent submissions at http://www.flickr.com/groups/uawt-7/pool/

[13:09:44] <charlie-tca> I propose picking the top 5 to add to backgrounds, with the best one used as default for natty

[13:10:09] <knome> how are we going to vote?

[13:10:27] <charlie-tca> I don't know the best way to do this, but I would ask for each persons top two picks

[13:10:45] <charlie-tca> Only community members present are going to vote

[13:11:06] <knome> what counts as a community member?

[13:11:18] <charlie-tca> who is here for the meeting?

[13:11:23] <knome> o/

[13:11:26] <pleia2> o/

[13:11:32] <charlie-tca> o/

[13:11:37] <micahg> o/

[13:11:47] <Sysi> o/ here community member or not

[13:11:52] <charlie-tca> [link] http://www.flickr.com/photos/57470087@N03/5297409903/in/pool-uawt-7

[13:12:12] <charlie-tca> [link] http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-uawt-7

[13:12:19] <charlie-tca> first two to consider

[13:12:39] <charlie-tca> I show 5 people, that is only ten to narrow down

[13:12:59] <charlie-tca> knome: picks?

[13:13:07] <knome> i'm lamely going to propose the two of my own.

[13:13:14] <charlie-tca> by all means

[13:13:26] <knome> http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-1546142@N20/ (#1)

[13:13:32] <knome> http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515380336/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515380336/in/pool-1546142@N20/ (#2)

[13:14:07] <charlie-tca> Okay, that is the two emunkki drafts, the man with umbrella, and the glider with yellow

[13:14:12] <charlie-tca> pleia2: yours?

[13:14:24] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/pr09studio/5277600138/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:14:28] <pleia2> http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:15:58] <knome> micahg, Sysi ?

[13:16:07] <micahg> http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5224255554/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:16:16] <micahg> http://www.flickr.com/photos/tylana/5343925114/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:16:51] <Sysi> should i give links if i'm not gonna pick new ones?

[13:16:59] <knome> Sysi, not necessarily :)

[13:17:14] <Sysi> knome's #1 (newer) or the umbrella guy

[13:17:57] <charlie-tca> Okay, now we got the top 8

[13:18:15] <knome> i'm dropping my #2 off the list, so we have 7

[13:18:22] <charlie-tca> anybody got an idea how to pick the best now?

[13:18:44] <Sysi> btw, has ubuntu wallpaper been decided/published?

[13:18:59] <charlie-tca> hm, vote on each one, with the one receiving the highest votes goes as default?

[13:19:22] <knome> sure.

[13:19:24] <charlie-tca> Ubuntu will probably use what they have already, the color splash thing

[13:19:32] <knome> one vote per person?

[13:19:47] <charlie-tca> yes

[13:19:49] <beardygnome> hi guys, just got here, what are we voting on?

[13:19:50] <knome> yup.

[13:19:55] <charlie-tca> and only those present vote

[13:19:59] <charlie-tca> wallpaper!

[13:20:20] <beardygnome> can i get a link?

[13:20:31] <charlie-tca> yup

[13:20:55] <charlie-tca> http://www.flickr.com/groups/uawt-7/pool/

[13:21:49] <beardygnome> thnaks

[13:22:03] <charlie-tca> We picked out 7 to vote on, and will do this one at a time. The wallpaper getting the most votes goes as default, so if it is not your favorite, either obstain or vote -1. We are counting the +1 votes, not what the bot decides

[13:22:27] <knome> i'd say better to vote -1

[13:22:29] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] first wallpaper to vote on - http://www.flickr.com/photos/57470087@N03/5297409903/in/pool-uawt-7

[13:22:43] <knome> -1

[13:22:46] <micahg> charlie-tca: how many times can we vote?

[13:22:49] <knome> micahg, one.

[13:22:56] <knome> micahg, one plus.

[13:23:06] <beardygnome> once per wallpaper, right?

[13:23:06] <knome> micahg, minus votes do not count :)

[13:23:09] <charlie-tca> heh, many as you want for each one

[13:23:21] <charlie-tca> one vote, one wallpaper, I mean

[13:23:28] <beardygnome> -1

[13:23:37] <knome> right, so one has more than one vote?

[13:23:55] <charlie-tca> One has one vote to use for each design, yes

[13:23:58] <knome> (eg. you could +1 all the images?)

[13:23:59] <knome> okay.

[13:24:22] <charlie-tca> yes, you could, it would count the same as not voting, wouldn't it?

[13:24:29] <knome> charlie-tca, yes and no ;)

[13:24:32] <charlie-tca> 0

[13:24:34] <micahg> -1

[13:24:41] <charlie-tca> +0

[13:25:09] <charlie-tca> Okay, that one fails

[13:25:14] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:25:27] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] next wallpaper - http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-uawt-7

[13:25:33] <charlie-tca> +1

[13:25:39] <knome> -1

[13:25:55] <beardygnome> +1

[13:26:15] <micahg> -1

[13:26:28] <charlie-tca> I just realized, beardygnome is disadvantages, he did not know which ones are up

[13:26:47] <Sysi> it doesn't matter on this kind of vote?

[13:26:51] <knome> charlie-tca, he still votes + or - for each.

[13:26:52] <charlie-tca> okay

[13:26:56] <pleia2> +1

[13:27:00] <beardygnome> yeah, i'm happy

[13:27:10] <charlie-tca> Okay, that is three on this one

[13:27:11] <Sysi> -1

[13:27:17] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:28:03] <charlie-tca> knome: greens or blues on yours?

[13:28:08] <knome> the more blue

[13:28:18] <knome> http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:28:38] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:28:42] <knome> +1

[13:28:55] <micahg> +1, but I suspect people will complain of eye strain :)

[13:29:02] <beardygnome> -1

[13:29:07] <charlie-tca> +0

[13:29:10] <knome> MootBot, err, that didn't count yet :)

[13:29:17] <knome> err, micahg

[13:29:21] <charlie-tca> count is 1

[13:29:31] <knome> micahg said +1, but mootbot didn't register

[13:29:32] <micahg> +1

[13:29:34] <knome> :)

[13:29:41] <Sysi> +1

[13:29:45] <charlie-tca> count is 3

[13:30:33] <knome> my wife is soon burning her sleeves since we are supposed to go home :P

[13:30:51] <Sysi> i's need to go to sauna..

[13:30:54] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE

[13:30:58] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:31:26] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] http://www.flickr.com/photos/pr09studio/5277600138/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:31:45] <charlie-tca> -1

[13:31:47] <beardygnome> -1

[13:31:49] <knome> -1

[13:31:50] <pleia2> +1

[13:32:34] <Sysi> -1

[13:32:41] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:32:48] <charlie-tca> count is one

[13:33:07] * micahg would've +1 that

[13:33:16] <charlie-tca> then that is 2

[13:33:22] <knome> micahg, speed is ace. :P

[13:33:29] <micahg> sorry, E_TOOMANYTASKS

[13:33:33] <knome> :P

[13:33:51] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:34:02] <knome> again?

[13:34:24] <charlie-tca> mistake

[13:34:27] <knome> np ;)

[13:34:28] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:35:16] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5224255554/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:35:23] <micahg> +1

[13:35:26] <knome> -1

[13:35:30] <charlie-tca> -1

[13:35:45] <pleia2> -1

[13:35:46] <Sysi> -1

[13:35:56] <beardygnome> +1

[13:36:00] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:36:02] <charlie-tca> count is 2

[13:36:22] <charlie-tca> and the last one is

[13:36:27] <charlie-tca> [VOTE] http://www.flickr.com/photos/tylana/5343925114/in/pool-1546142@N20/

[13:36:30] <charlie-tca> =1

[13:36:34] <micahg> +1

[13:36:34] <charlie-tca> +1

[13:36:36] <knome> -1

[13:36:37] <pleia2> -1

[13:36:56] <beardygnome> 0

[13:37:04] <Sysi> +0

[13:37:14] <beardygnome> +0

[13:37:25] <knome> (when did dolphins become the xubuntu mascot?? :))

[13:37:35] <charlie-tca> [ENDVOTE]

[13:37:39] <charlie-tca> Count is 2

[13:37:43] <pleia2> (yeah, if it was mice..!)

[13:37:49] <charlie-tca> the same time the umbrella did?

[13:37:55] <pleia2> or the birds

[13:38:03] <knome> we had two 3 votes

[13:38:06] <knome> and 3 two votes

[13:38:16] <knome> my suggestion: upload those to xubuntu now

[13:38:16] <micahg> so, we should revote the 2 3s

[13:38:18] <knome> then

[13:38:26] <charlie-tca> I don't think the animal is the mascot, but rather representation of the OS

[13:38:30] <knome> leave one week time for artists to finish off the design

[13:38:37] <knome> and revote about the default

[13:38:39] <pleia2> knome: +1

[13:38:43] <charlie-tca> Why didn't the artists finish in 4 months?

[13:39:03] <charlie-tca> but okay, I will grant a one week period.

[13:39:06] <knome> charlie-tca, because you said that after this meeting the artists would get last directions to finish off

[13:39:20] <charlie-tca> Ideas to pass to the man with umbrella to improve it?

[13:39:37] <knome> i already commented it on the flickr page

[13:39:40] <knome> there is some ideaqs

[13:39:41] <knome> -q

[13:40:06] <charlie-tca> Ideas to pass to the blue hues background to improve it?

[13:40:28] <knome> note to self: add something for the eye to look for, like some subtle rays or sth

[13:40:36] <Sysi> would it be better to test wallpapers as part of the theme?

[13:40:39] <knome> and rework on the colors with better monitor

[13:40:39] <beardygnome> i think it's a bit too plain

[13:40:45] <pleia2> Sysi: yea, I was just thinking that

[13:40:54] <knome> Sysi, of course.

[13:40:54] <charlie-tca> Yes, it would be better if you have the time to do that

[13:41:02] <knome> charlie-tca, there is this one week?

[13:41:12] <charlie-tca> yes, knome

[13:41:25] <knome> charlie-tca, considering the designs won't change too much (eg. i won't come up with a red wallpaper week later ;))

[13:41:53] <charlie-tca> I think some rays in the blue hues would be great, maybe even a sunspot/light in order to draw the viewers eye

[13:42:01] <knome> are we done with the wallpaper stuff for this week now?

[13:42:10] <charlie-tca> yup

[13:42:11] <knome> yup, i'll have to think about that.

[13:42:20] <Sysi> and then we get screenshot with rest of natty artwork?

[13:42:23] <knome> i did that image today

[13:42:34] <charlie-tca> I will tally everything and ask mr_pouit and ochosi to package the top 5 for us

[13:42:39] <knome> Sysi, thorwil did a "test wallpaper with theme" package

[13:42:57] <knome> Sysi, i can work on some shots with the theme and the five candidates

[13:43:01] <knome> charlie-tca, ^^

[13:43:05] <charlie-tca> and I saw him come in to the meeting. Is he still here?

[13:43:13] <thorwil> yes

[13:43:16] <knome> no idea. i have ignored joins/parts

[13:43:17] <charlie-tca> That would be great, knome

[13:43:28] <knome> thorwil, i'll use your tool, sir :P

[13:43:29] <charlie-tca> Welcome to our meeting, thorwil

[13:43:37] <thorwil> :)

[13:43:43] <knome> ...so, are we ready with the wallpapers...? :)

[13:43:43] <charlie-tca> Can you tell where to grab your tool for these

[13:43:46] <knome> i know

[13:43:50] <charlie-tca> yup, knome

[13:44:01] <charlie-tca> next week we vote on the best of two, right?

[13:44:08] <knome> or all five.

[13:44:16] <thorwil> five or two??

[13:44:18] <knome> best two is okay as well.

[13:44:22] <charlie-tca> Next week we vote on the best of two

[13:44:27] <knome> since they *did* get more votes than the rest

[13:44:29] <knome> okay, thanks

[13:44:52] <knome> i'll go calm down my wife

[13:45:06] <charlie-tca> Thank you

[13:45:09] <knome> have a good rest of the meeting

[13:45:15] <knome> no problem, see you later

[13:45:25] <Sysi> i'd need to get to the sauna.. i'll read the log

[13:45:33] <charlie-tca> thorwil: we are looking the blue hues and the man with umbrella for the default

[13:45:37] <Sysi> (if you're too fast)

[13:45:46] <charlie-tca> thanks, Sysi

[13:46:42] <thorwil> charlie-tca: oh well, i hardly see a competition there

[13:48:27] <thorwil> and i suspect you don't have to bother with any kind of art direction / specification for the release after next

[13:48:39] <charlie-tca> If only... but I will let the community decide, at least the ones that show up

[13:48:47] <charlie-tca> I think you are correct.

[13:49:29] <charlie-tca> But I will get the top 5 or so included this release in the backgrounds, at least.

[13:49:39] <thorwil> good

[13:50:18] <charlie-tca> We got some really nice designs this time. I thank you for all your help on it

[13:50:52] <charlie-tca> I guess we better get the packaging updates now, and get this meeting wound up

[13:51:12] <thorwil> charlie-tca: your welcome

[13:51:35] <charlie-tca> Your advice is greatly appreciated here.

[13:51:46] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Packaging & Development

[13:52:04] <charlie-tca> The packaging/dev report, nothing much: uploaded new greybird, fixed a few default settings' issues, and blacklisted a few indicators in xfce4-indicator (e.g. indicator-appmenu, we don't want it)

[13:52:20] <charlie-tca> Also fixed a crash in xfce4-terminal, and patched xfce4-settings to solve the long standing bugs wrt sticky keys

[13:52:31] <charlie-tca> And accessibility gains again!

[13:53:06] <charlie-tca> That's all I have on Packaging and Development this week

[13:53:12] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Bug Triage & Testing

[13:53:20] <charlie-tca> no update this week

[13:53:29] <charlie-tca> any questions ?

[13:53:58] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Website & Marketing

[13:54:05] <charlie-tca> any updates, pleia2 ?

[13:54:20] <pleia2> nothing beyond what we mentioned earlier in the meeting

[13:54:32] <charlie-tca> Thank you

[13:54:40] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

[13:55:00] <charlie-tca> We released Natty alpha3 last week, thanks to efforts of all involved!

[13:55:35] <charlie-tca> We have a fast moving release cycle now, with the beta1 coming out March 31

[13:56:03] <charlie-tca> Anyone wants to go to UDS-O needs to submit their application for sponsorship, please

[13:56:15] <charlie-tca> You do not have to be a developer to go

[13:56:53] <charlie-tca> any questions?

[13:56:58] <micahg> nah, beta is normally a month before release

[13:57:20] <charlie-tca> We have two betas and no rc this cycle

[13:57:29] <micahg> right, but beta 1 isn't any earlier than normal

[13:57:40] <charlie-tca> right

[13:57:54] <charlie-tca> I just meant we can't slow down now

[13:58:12] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Governance structure

[13:58:44] <charlie-tca> I plan to put together a proposal to choose the new lead for xubuntu, most likely by community vote.

[13:59:06] <beardygnome> but we on;t just voted on you charlie-tca

[13:59:15] <beardygnome> *only

[13:59:29] <charlie-tca> This will have to be added to the Xubuntu Strategy Document, existing at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument

[13:59:33] <charlie-tca> yes, beardygnome

[13:59:46] <charlie-tca> but there are no provisions in Xubuntu for how to pick a new lead

[14:00:04] <charlie-tca> We kind of stumbled our way through it

[14:00:15] <beardygnome> so you're proposing *how* we do it

[14:00:21] <beardygnome> not that we need to do it now?

[14:00:33] <charlie-tca> yup

[14:00:46] <charlie-tca> how to do it, correct

[14:01:03] <beardygnome> cool

[14:01:09] <charlie-tca> Please pass your suggestions for this to me, either by email, or on IRC in #xubuntu-devel

[14:01:55] <charlie-tca> Being the way I am, it bothers me a lot

[14:02:03] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

[14:02:16] <charlie-tca> Anyone want to bring up anything?

[14:02:29] <micahg> o/

[14:02:35] <charlie-tca> Go ahead, micahg

[14:02:51] <micahg> is it worth still considering lightdm?

[14:03:11] <charlie-tca> I thought it was too buggy?

[14:03:24] <micahg> oh, hmm, haven't tried it yet, maybe I should testdrive it...

[14:03:27] <charlie-tca> To me, it is always worth considering anything besides GDM

[14:03:53] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit said it wouldn't work yet

[14:04:04] <charlie-tca> but I don't remember the why?

[14:04:12] <micahg> charlie-tca: ok, I trust him :)

[14:04:31] <charlie-tca> Me too

[14:04:40] <charlie-tca> that's why I dropped it

[14:04:51] <charlie-tca> Anything else?

[14:04:52] <micahg> getting a little late in the cycle, I just wanted to make sure it wasn't forgotten, ok, we can try for O :)

[14:05:19] <charlie-tca> We will have another meeting in one week, March 17 at 19:00 UTC

[14:05:36] <charlie-tca> We will pick a default wallpaper at that meeting.

[14:06:00] <charlie-tca> thank you all for being here and participating! Teamwork!

[14:06:13] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Meeting ended.
