{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-07-11 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* micahg to find what Ubuntu-desktop does with java in restricted-extras - Carried Forward
* GridCube to begin a discussion on the Xubuntu-devel ML to find the "Top 10" FAQ items for Xubuntu - Done
** investigate putting the "TOP 10" FAQ on the website - Done
* start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Carried Forward
* we will look at getting pavucontrol in the sound preferences - Done
* All teams need to review website content - Carried Forward
** insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team
** send updates to the xubuntu-devel mailing list
** charlie-tca AT ubuntu DOT com
** post them and give us the URL
** submit a bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* mr_pouit got the indicators working in xubuntu oneiric again
* we should probably try to confirm defaults for this cycle soon as feature freeze is 4 weeks away
* pavucontrol and pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* look at the possibility of adding midori as a second browser

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Many thanks to the testers for all their hard work. Alpha2 made it out the door
** A big part of that is the daily testing we are doing. Alpha2 was a very difficult milestone to release, as can be seen by the flavours not releasing it.
** We knew in advance where the worst issues were, and had workarounds for most of the issues.
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

===== Website & Marketing =====

* All teams need to review website content
** insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team
* added a link to our artwork page to our marketing page last week, so now it should be easier to find the logos
* we're testing the imgcapt plugin, please contact knome for information

===== Artwork =====

* there's a git-repo for greybird
** https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* Ubuntu Developer Week happening all week, 16:00 to 20:00 UTC
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek/Sessions
* Great job getting Oneiric Alpha 2 out, it was touch and go for many of us.
* The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-07-17 at 22:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** 10.04.3 Release: July 21, 2011
** We will not be releasing 10.04.3, but will be involved with testing Ubuntu.
** 11.10 Alpha 3: August 4, 2011
** 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
* Thunderbird is now the default email client in Ubuntu, it has replaced Evolution

==== Any Other Business ====

* Thanks for attending the meeting.
* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* Next meeting is in one week, July 17, #xubuntu-devel, at 22:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-07-11 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* Thanks to the efforts of AlanBell, we now have a bot to record the meeting

==== Action items for the 2011-07-11 meeting ====

* micahg will get with desktop-team about putting pavucontrol in the sound preferences - Done (pavucontrol is not in active development)

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-07-11 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

* charlie-tca
* micahg
* knome
* pleia2
* beardygnome
* jarnos
* astraljava
* plantoschka

Started logging meeting in #xubuntu-devel

Meeting started by charlie-tca at 19:02:56 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-07-11-19.02.log.html

=== Full Log ===

 19:02:56 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting

 19:02:56 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Jul 11 19:02:56 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 19:02:56 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 19:03:07 <charlie-tca> WOOT! a meeting bot!

 19:03:35 <charlie-tca> Thanks to the efforts of AlanBell, we now have a bot to record the meeting

 19:04:03 <micahg> o/

 19:04:17 <charlie-tca> Our agenda, as usual, is found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 19:04:27 <charlie-tca> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 19:04:40 <charlie-tca> hm, maybe I broke it already

 19:05:14 <charlie-tca> Well, for those interested:

 19:05:18 <charlie-tca> * Old business

 19:05:19 <charlie-tca> * Team updates

 19:05:21 <charlie-tca> * Packaging & Development

 19:05:23 <charlie-tca> * Bug Triage & Testing

 19:05:25 <charlie-tca> * Website & Marketing

 19:05:27 <charlie-tca> * Artwork

 19:05:29 <charlie-tca> * Documentation

 19:05:31 <charlie-tca> * Announcements

 19:05:33 <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

 19:05:35 <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

 19:05:48 * pleia2 waves

 19:06:06 <charlie-tca> and, in the interest of determining what is happening, please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 19:06:23 <charlie-tca> Let's try that and see if it works for us

 19:06:37 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old business

 19:06:37 <meetingology> TOPIC: Old business

 19:07:31 <charlie-tca> We are putting together a "Top 10" questions and answers FAQ. We would very much like to have that on the website

 19:08:09 <charlie-tca> If possible, we would even like to rotate these FAQ's so there are new ones for people to read

 19:08:22 <charlie-tca> Is is possible to do something like "fortune"?

 19:09:05 <charlie-tca> ..

 19:09:26 <astraljava> Worth investigating.

 19:09:32 <beardygnome> what is "fortune"?

 19:09:39 <astraljava> Shouldn't be more than adding a dictionary for it.

 19:09:39 <beardygnome> ..

 19:09:44 <astraljava> ..

 19:09:51 <charlie-tca> A set of statements, that can be rotated daily on your computer

 19:10:07 <pleia2> does anyone actually find them useful?

 19:10:13 <charlie-tca> faq's?

 19:10:16 <charlie-tca> yes

 19:10:19 <pleia2> no, the ones on your computer

 19:10:31 <beardygnome> oh, like a fortune cookie

 19:10:35 <beardygnome> ..

 19:10:36 <charlie-tca> It will be the most asked questions from mailing list, #xubuntu, and forums

 19:10:51 <charlie-tca> I did enjoy them when I had them working

 19:10:52 <pleia2> I like the idea of a FAQ page on the site, not so sure about rotating fortune things anywhere

 19:11:13 <charlie-tca> not the fortune statements, rotating the FAQ's?

 19:11:19 <beardygnome> me either, might get confusing for people

 19:11:45 <charlie-tca> If we have 100 most asked questions, we should rotate them so only 10 at time show up

 19:11:50 <pleia2> well I don't like "tips" things in general, I particularly won't like them if it's a FAQ about getting to sound to work when my sound works fine :)

 19:12:10 <pleia2> in fact, it may make me think something is wrong, "my sound is working, is it such a big problem for xubuntu?"

 19:12:14 <beardygnome> i agree

 19:12:30 <charlie-tca> So, having the question and answer there would be bad?

 19:12:32 <beardygnome> if we have 100, isn't that more of a knowledgebase?

 19:12:48 <beardygnome> i think question and answer is good

 19:12:50 <charlie-tca> 100 is a number

 19:12:52 <pleia2> Q&A FAQ on the website is fine, as "tips" on your desktop I don't like

 19:12:57 <beardygnome> but not having them rotating

 19:13:02 <charlie-tca> our goal right now is the top 10

 19:13:15 <charlie-tca> but will the top 10 always be the same question?

 19:13:15 <jarnos> Best is to have Xubuntu so easy to use it does not need an FAQ.

 19:13:28 <charlie-tca> jarnos: reality, please

 19:13:50 <pleia2> I think we should just stick with ~10 for now and go from there

 19:13:51 <charlie-tca> Ubuntu will be that easy, but Xfce probably is not going to make it that simple, ever.

 19:14:00 <jarnos> charlie-tca, the FAQ could be integrated in user interface.

 19:14:22 <charlie-tca> and how will that attract users to the website?

 19:14:39 <jarnos> charlie-tca, it doesn't

 19:14:47 <charlie-tca> goal here is to get users to the website, not to their computer

 19:14:51 <pleia2> maybe we should focus on getting these FAQ written and on the website, and then think about putting them in the help docs on the system sometime later?

 19:15:29 <charlie-tca> That is a good goal

 19:15:52 <charlie-tca> I would expect these things to already in help, but users don't really look for docs, do they?

 19:16:24 <pleia2> I suspect most people just do a google search

 19:16:39 <charlie-tca> At least, judging by the number of bug reports for out of date docs in karmic, lucid, and maverick, I don't think they do.

 19:17:05 <astraljava> google is too vague and confusing.

 19:17:08 <charlie-tca> pleia2: we will plan for these to be on the website, then, right?

 19:17:38 <pleia2> charlie-tca: yes

 19:17:42 <charlie-tca> Thank you

 19:17:48 <charlie-tca> next, we have

 19:17:50 <charlie-tca> * start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Carried Forward

 19:17:57 <charlie-tca> ochosi: did we start this?

 19:18:39 <charlie-tca> and we are still calling for

 19:18:41 <charlie-tca> * All teams need to review website content

 19:18:43 <charlie-tca> * insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team

 19:19:40 <charlie-tca> If you have the ability to update anything there, please make corrections and email them to us. You can send updates to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, charlie-tca AT ubuntu DOT com or post them and give us the URL

 19:19:53 <charlie-tca> Any questions?

 19:20:21 <charlie-tca> micahg: who do go to for  * we will look at getting pavucontrol in the sound preferences

 19:20:42 <pleia2> re: contribute you can also submit a bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website

 19:20:42 <jarnos> charlie-tca, when I started to use ubuntu, Xubuntu had easier-to-user panels and menu than Ubuntu, in my opinion.

 19:20:54 <micahg> charlie-tca: desktop team I think

 19:21:10 <charlie-tca> Are you handling this or me?

 19:21:38 <micahg> I can do it, just not this week

 19:21:41 <charlie-tca> jarnos: still does, but it is not as easy to customize

 19:22:57 <charlie-tca> [ACTION] micahg will get with desktop-team about putting pavucontrol in the sound preferences

 19:22:57 * meetingology micahg will get with desktop-team about putting pavucontrol in the sound preferences

 19:23:33 <charlie-tca> Any questions on Old Business?

 19:24:06 <micahg> o/

 19:24:15 <charlie-tca> go ahead, micahg

 19:24:16 <micahg> charlie-tca: we're talkin about the sound menu, right?

 19:24:20 <charlie-tca> yup

 19:24:28 <charlie-tca> the thingy in indicators

 19:24:51 <charlie-tca> at least, I think so

 19:24:59 <charlie-tca> I don't have that anymore in Oneiric

 19:25:08 <micahg> right, so that's going to require changes in pavucontrol to actually work most probably, so it's actually not so simple to just add, I guess I glossed over that last itme

 19:25:09 <micahg> *time

 19:25:28 <charlie-tca> oh

 19:25:35 <charlie-tca> so, maybe we can't have it there

 19:25:41 <micahg> the indicators work over dbus

 19:25:45 <charlie-tca> But it is worth asking, isn't it?

 19:25:54 <micahg> the question is does lennart have any interest in inidicators...

 19:26:06 <charlie-tca> Maybe we should file a bug for it?

 19:26:59 <charlie-tca> That might be the easiest way to deal with it

 19:27:08 <micahg> yeah

 19:27:22 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Team Updates

 19:27:22 <meetingology> TOPIC: Team Updates

 19:27:31 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Packaging & Development

 19:27:31 <meetingology> TOPIC: Packaging & Development

 19:27:41 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit or micahg : your turn

 19:28:50 <micahg> so, mr_pouit got the indicators working in xubuntu oneiric again

 19:28:57 <charlie-tca> yes!

 19:29:18 <charlie-tca> live session is still broken

 19:29:37 <charlie-tca> anything else exciting happening?

 19:29:40 <micahg> yes, mr_pouit cleaned up that bug report so that the intent is clearer now

 19:30:12 <micahg> I'll upload libgtk2-notify-perl later tonight, that's one of the few things holding libnotify1 on the CD

 19:31:14 <micahg> I think that's it, we should probably try to confirm defaults for this cycle soon as feature freeze is 4 weeks away

 19:31:23 <micahg> *as possible

 19:32:11 <charlie-tca> (..)

 19:32:26 <micahg> .. (sorry, forgot)

 19:32:29 <charlie-tca> Np

 19:32:40 <charlie-tca> it will take us a while to learn to use it, I think

 19:33:04 <charlie-tca> um, Do we need to get pavucontrol and pastebinit in before feature freeze?

 19:33:19 <charlie-tca> Also, file-roller vs xarchiver?

 19:33:38 <micahg> file-roller is back and the problem with that was solved (dropped nautilus recommends)

 19:34:07 <micahg> I think ideally we should even if we don't have a release impetus as then we get 2 months to make sure it's the right decision

 19:35:23 <micahg> pavucontrol hasn't had a release in 2 yrs, there doesn't seem to be much upstream development, pastebinit is pretty active though

 19:35:35 <charlie-tca> but pavucontrol works

 19:36:27 <charlie-tca> Sometimes there is no need for further development, because things are working ;)

 19:37:04 <micahg> true, but that's a downside if we want stuff like indicator support :0

 19:37:26 <charlie-tca> oh, yeah, I guess it would be

 19:37:44 <charlie-tca> Okay, maybe we just get it in defaults then

 19:37:58 <charlie-tca> I can close the action item

 19:38:22 <charlie-tca> Any questions for our esteemed developers?

 19:38:31 <micahg> well, if we don't need indicator support and it works by itself, then we can include it

 19:39:04 <charlie-tca> yup, it is working, and we don't *have* to have indicator support

 19:39:46 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Bug Triage and Testing

 19:39:46 <meetingology> TOPIC: Bug Triage and Testing

 19:40:10 <charlie-tca> Many thanks to the testers for all their hard work. Alpha2 made it out the door

 19:42:49 <charlie-tca> A big part of that is the daily testing we are doing. Alpha2 was a very difficult milestone to release, as can be seen by the flavours not releasing it.

 19:43:17 <charlie-tca> We knew in advance where the worst issues were, and had workarounds for most of the issues.

 19:43:33 <charlie-tca> Keep the bugs coming in, please

 19:44:06 <charlie-tca> We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

 19:44:18 <charlie-tca> Any questions for Bugs and Testing?

 19:45:18 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Website & Marketing

 19:45:18 <meetingology> TOPIC: Website & Marketing

 19:45:25 <charlie-tca> Any updates for the website?

 19:45:32 <knome> nope, not right now,

 19:45:39 <knome> but we're testing the imgcapt plugin

 19:45:52 <knome> and hopefully soon the picslide plugin as well

 19:46:06 <charlie-tca> o/

 19:46:52 <knome> (hey)

 19:47:17 <charlie-tca> I tried to test the plugin, but maybe I don't know how?

 19:47:25 <charlie-tca> It doesn't seem to do anything for me

 19:47:49 <charlie-tca> ..

 19:48:11 <knome> do you have javascript disabled?

 19:49:18 <charlie-tca> no, preferences says "Enable javascript" and that is checked

 19:49:26 * charlie-tca slaps himself...

 19:49:39 <charlie-tca> Do I have to install java, too?

 19:49:50 <knome> nope, you shouldn't need java

 19:50:01 <knome> we can go through this after the meeting if you want

 19:50:21 <charlie-tca> Iced-Tea plugin is installed

 19:50:36 <charlie-tca> Anyone else try to test the imgcapt plugin?

 19:50:46 <pleia2> yep, I sent knome some feedback earlier

 19:51:00 <knome> pleia2, yup, i just read it, and i'll get back to you in a sec :)

 19:51:00 <charlie-tca> okay, I will get with you, knome

 19:51:05 <knome> good

 19:51:08 <pleia2> worked well for me, just some usability nitpicks :)

 19:51:33 <charlie-tca> I am sure it is my settings, somehow. I seem to be able to make anything fail completely, these days.

 19:52:09 <charlie-tca> Any other questions or comments for website?

 19:52:29 <pleia2> I added a link to our artwork page to our marketing page last week, so now it should be easier to find the logos

 19:52:48 <charlie-tca> Thank you so much for that!

 19:53:00 <knome> still need to get through the website as well as the wiki page to make sure it's current

 19:53:08 <charlie-tca> It is the little things that will help us.

 19:53:31 <charlie-tca> +1 knome

 19:53:48 <charlie-tca> We need people to look over what is at http://xubuntu.org, please

 19:54:23 <charlie-tca> If everybody here goes and looks it over, it will be pretty easy to get everything up to date.

 19:54:44 <charlie-tca> ..

 19:55:35 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Artwork and Documentation

 19:55:35 <meetingology> TOPIC: Artwork and Documentation

 19:56:21 <charlie-tca> plantoschka did a great job on the news release. Now we just need some blog articles we can add!

 19:56:33 <charlie-tca> ochosi: are you around?

 19:58:09 <plantoschka> thanks :)

 20:00:30 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

 20:00:30 <meetingology> TOPIC: Announcements

 20:00:54 <charlie-tca> * Ubuntu Developer Week happening all week, 16:00 to 20:00 UTC

 20:01:19 <charlie-tca> Channel is #ubuntu-classroom and #ubuntu-classroom-chat

 20:01:39 <charlie-tca> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDeveloperWeek/Sessions

 20:01:42 <knome> does xubuntu have a session?

 20:01:47 <charlie-tca> nope

 20:02:03 <charlie-tca> I did not get around to it, and no one else volunteered

 20:02:07 <knome> okay

 20:02:11 <knome> i must have missed that :)

 20:03:18 <charlie-tca> Important dates coming up:

 20:03:21 <charlie-tca> 10.04.3 Release: July 21, 2011

 20:03:23 <charlie-tca> 11.10 Alpha 3: August 4, 2011

 20:03:25 <charlie-tca> 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011

 20:03:27 <charlie-tca> 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 20:03:45 <charlie-tca> We will not be releasing 10.04.3, but will be involved with testing Ubuntu.

 20:04:20 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-07-17 at 22:00 UTC

 20:04:59 <charlie-tca> Thunderbird is now the default email client in Ubuntu, it has replaced Evolution

 20:05:09 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

 20:05:09 <meetingology> TOPIC: Any Other Business

 20:05:17 <charlie-tca> Anything anyone wants to discuss?

 20:05:39 <charlie-tca> Let's welcome beardygnome back; it has been a while since he was here!

 20:05:49 <charlie-tca> ..

 20:05:53 <beardygnome> cheers charlie - been busy working on the new house

 20:06:08 <beardygnome> building sheds, bookcases etc

 20:06:33 <beardygnome> hoping to get back into some geek stuff now ;-)

 20:06:36 <beardygnome> ..

 20:07:19 <knome> building applications, code etc?

 20:07:30 <charlie-tca> huh?

 20:07:36 <knome> nvm :)

 20:07:44 <charlie-tca> sure :)

 20:07:50 <knome> (from building sheds to building apps...)

 20:08:00 <charlie-tca> ah!

 20:08:10 <charlie-tca> Anything ?

 20:08:33 <charlie-tca> Let's go ahead and finish up then. I will all you good people on Sunday.

 20:09:00 <charlie-tca> Thanks for attending the meeting. Your participation is absolutely necessary to the welfare of Xubuntu!

 20:09:08 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
