{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Objective ===

The Ubuntu Open Week is a week of IRC tuition and Q+A sessions all about getting involved in the rock-and-roll world that is the Ubuntu community. We organise this week for the beginning of a new release cycle to help new contributors get involved. This week of sessions is aimed at users, developers have their own week of sessions called "UbuntuDeveloperWeek".

Since this is a voluntary session which can be given by anyone, if we have enough ideas, we will schedule more than one session. It would be best to have more than one individual do the sessions, if there are to be two or more.

Right now there is '''one session scheduled on Thursday, 15th July 19.00 UTC'''.

=== Brainstorming Ideas ===

Since this is a community driven effort, this page is used to help with different suggestions and ideas to make the session for Xubuntu a successful method of attracting new users and contributors.

!TheSheep suggests a summary of what's new and whats coming. 

pleia2 suggests that the "what's new" thing is good, and during my user days session on xfce people quite liked the screenshots and when I discussed how xubuntu is still kinda like old ubuntu (ships with gimp? didn't move the window control buttons? yay!)

charlie-tca suggests a question and answer period, which always seems to work well.

ochosi> i would like to suggest a part where you inform people about xfce/lightweight software. there are several people who don't understand why xubuntu uses the software by default that it currently does. explaining the rational behind those decisions would certainly be helpful. furthermore you could list a few alternative applications (e.g. midori, claws-mail, gmusicbrowser, gpicviewer, geeqie), which could make the desktop a bit more lightweight.
