{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===

* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, started by bluesabre, 11 Nov at 22:01 &mdash; 22:58 UTC.
* Full logs at https://new.ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2021/xubuntu-devel.2021-11-11-22.01.log.html

=== Meeting summary ===

* ''LINK:'' Agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings  (bluesabre, 22:03)

==== Open action items ====

Discussion started by bluesabre at 22:05.

* ''DONE:'' bluesabre to mail the ML about adding jphilips to team  (bluesabre, 22:05)
* ''DONE:'' bluesabre/jphilips to send individual proposals to the ML  (bluesabre, 22:05)
* ''DONE:'' bluesabre to add jphilips to the application Launchpad and GitHub groups  (bluesabre, 22:05)

==== Updates and Announcements ====

Discussion started by bluesabre at 22:05.

==== Discussion ====

Discussion started by bluesabre at 22:09.

* '''22.04 Xubuntu Schedule'''  (bluesabre, 22:09)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/22.04/schedule   (bluesabre, 22:09)
* '''22.04 Wallpaper Contest'''  (bluesabre, 22:16)
** ''LINK:'' https://contest.xubuntu.org/   (bluesabre, 22:16)
** ''LINK:'' https://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-20-04-community-wallpaper-contest/   (bluesabre, 22:23)
** bluesabre to lead wallpaper contest and get help from jphilips and pleia2 as needed  (bluesabre, 22:30)
* '''22.04 Documentation'''  (bluesabre, 22:31)
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/Xubuntu/xubuntu-docs/blob/docs-refresh/CONTRIBUTING.md   (bluesabre, 22:31)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2021-July/012113.html   (jphilips, 22:38)
** ''LINK:'' https://github.com/Xubuntu/xubuntu-default-settings/pull/16   (bluesabre, 22:39)
** ''ACTION:'' jphilips to email the ML to vote on adding Yaru, nudge other theme vote/discussion  (bluesabre, 22:54)

==== Schedule next meeting ====

Discussion started by bluesabre at 22:57.

=== Action items, by person ===

* jphilips
** jphilips to email the ML to vote on adding Yaru, nudge other theme vote/discussion

=== Done items ===

* bluesabre to mail the ML about adding jphilips to team
* bluesabre/jphilips to send individual proposals to the ML
* bluesabre to add jphilips to the application Launchpad and GitHub groups

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (86)
* ochosi (34)
* jphilips (26)
* pleia2 (17)
* meetingology (5)
* ubottu (3)
* kryten (1)
