{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 05 Feb at 15:00 &mdash; 15:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-02-05-15.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

due to the lack of quorum the meeting is postponed and slickymaster will reschedule it
''ACTION:'' slickymaster to reschedule next Xubuntu Community Meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* slickymasterWork (20)
* jfaust (6)
* meetingology (4)
* micahg (1)

=== Full Log ===

 15:00 <slickymasterWork> #startmeeting

 15:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Fri Feb  5 15:00:01 2016 UTC.  The chair is slickymasterWork. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 15:00 <meetingology> 

 15:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 15:00 <slickymasterWork> Welcome all to the Xubuntu community meeting.  The agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 15:00 <slickymasterWork> So, who's here for the meeting?

 15:01 * micahg is here

 15:01 <slickymasterWork> welcome micahg :)

 15:01 <slickymasterWork> anyone else?

 15:01 <jfaust> jfaust is here.  first meeting for me

 15:02 <slickymasterWork> welcome jfaust :)

 15:02 <jfaust> thanks!

 15:04 <slickymasterWork> unfortunately it seems that we won't have quorum to proceed with the meeting

 15:04 <slickymasterWork> there's just me and micahg here, from team

 15:04 <slickymasterWork> unless any other members show up

 15:05 <jfaust> I'm curious about the process.  Planned to just observe (and contribute if I could).  Happy to hang out for awhile and wait for others.

 15:06 <slickymasterWork> I'll give it another 10 minutes to see if anyone shows up

 15:07 <slickymasterWork> if not I'll reschedule it

 15:08 <slickymasterWork> ?

 15:08 <slickymasterWork> but as long as you're here now jfaust, did you already have a read at http://docs.xubuntu.org/contributors/

 15:09 <slickymasterWork> it's a good starting point for you

 15:10 <jfaust> Yes, I have read (most of) the contributor information.  Trying to test 16.04 now

 15:11 <slickymasterWork> great

 15:13 <jfaust> unfortunately I missed the recent meeting about testing. still not 100% how best to focus my efforts...

 15:14 <slickymasterWork> jfaust, here is the backlog of that meeting -> http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2016/01/31/%23xubuntu-devel.html#t16:00

 15:15 <jfaust> oh, that's great!  Will definitely check it out.  Thanks!

 15:15 <slickymasterWork> sure jfaust, no problem

 15:16 <slickymasterWork> #info due to the lack of quorum the meeting is postponed and slickymaster will reschedule it

 15:17 <slickymasterWork> #action slickymaster to reschedule next Xubuntu Community Meeting

 15:17 * meetingology slickymaster to reschedule next Xubuntu Community Meeting

 15:18 <slickymasterWork> #endmeeting
