{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 16 May at 10:01 &mdash; 11:23 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-16-10.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 10:07.

** ''ACTION:'' Team: When is systemd landing?
** systemd is in repo and usable - with quirks
** not all service files are there
** no concrete idea of when it will be default
** ''ACTION:'' elfy will link the systemd-related blueprints to xubuntu's blueprint to keep development on the radar
** : menulibre 2.0.4 in unstable and utopic, will sru back into trusty next week
** knome has a CSS update pending on IS/pleia2
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to follow up debian-sync of lightdm-gtk-greeter 1.8.5 to utopic, then SRU back to trusty
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to SRU menulibre-2.0.4 back to trusty
** features blueprint has links to systemd blueprints

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 10:26.

** ochosi ran a call for Xubuntu technical lead on the mailinglist, there'll be a vote on the nominees in approximately two weeks at a meeting
** knome handed ochosi over they keys to LP teams

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:29.

* '''Create a testing PPA common to -team''' (10:30)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to investigate and set up trusty-staging and utopic-staging PPAs
** A PPA specifically SRUs shall be discussed with micahg
* '''Use Trello''' (10:46)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to set up a trello "master" board for -team and send an email about it to the mailinglist
** the team will vote on the trello board after it has been set up
* '''Mailinglist/s''' (10:58)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-May/010193.html 
** knome sent a proposal for mailinglists to the mailinglist
** ''Vote:'' Should we implement knome's proposal in our development mailinglist? (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to send an email to the mailinglist to continue the voting on knome's mailinglist proposal
* '''Planning for milestone images''' (11:08)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to send email to -team about planning for milestone images (e.g. shall we participate in alphas?)
* '''Assistive tech testing''' (11:10)
** ''LINK:'' http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1574/info 

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 11:17.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to send an email to the mailinglist about a proposal to do team meetings this cycle

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-16-10.01.log.html#329 Should we implement knome's proposal in our development mailinglist?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters knome, elfy, slickymasterWork, ochosi, jjfrv8, bluesabre

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to follow up debian-sync of lightdm-gtk-greeter 1.8.5 to utopic, then SRU back to trusty
** bluesabre to SRU menulibre-2.0.4 back to trusty
* elfy
** elfy will link the systemd-related blueprints to xubuntu's blueprint to keep development on the radar
** elfy to set up a trello "master" board for -team and send an email about it to the mailinglist
** elfy to send email to -team about planning for milestone images (e.g. shall we participate in alphas?)
* knome
** ochosi to send an email to the mailinglist to continue the voting on knome's mailinglist proposal
* ochosi
** ochosi to investigate and set up trusty-staging and utopic-staging PPAs
** ochosi to send an email to the mailinglist to continue the voting on knome's mailinglist proposal
** ochosi to send an email to the mailinglist about a proposal to do team meetings this cycle

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (203)
* elfy (108)
* knome (84)
* bluesabre (28)
* meetingology (23)
* slickymasterWork (17)
* Unit193 (6)
* brainwash (4)
* jjfrv8 (1)
