{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Specification title ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: 1px solid #888; width: 100%;" -2> Overview
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Title'''
| Autopilot testing
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Blueprint'''
| Not yet available
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Assignee'''
| Jackson Doak, Victor Elorza, David James
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Release'''
| <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Goals-S|SS]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Detailed specification ===

The detailed specification should go here.

Areas covered in the specification should be the following (where applicable):
* '''Summary:''' A short summary what the specification is about.
* '''Rationale:''' Why should this change be done?
* '''Use cases:''' Which use cases this addresses?
* '''Detailed application comparison''' between new/old, based on the guidelines specified in the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument|Xubuntu Strategy Document]]</nowiki>, including, but not limited to: integration, usability, performance and features
* '''Notes on design, implementation and maintenance work'''
* '''Notes on issues that need solving''' by upstream, Xubuntu team and others
* '''Discussion on the specification'''
* '''Check for which applications appear to work with Autopilot'''

Checked directly against ALL menu items in default install. (30/05/13)

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Test Exists
| Works(*)
| Fails(**)
| 
|-
| Web browser
| Y
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Mail Reader
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Settings Manager
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Run Program
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| App Finder
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Archive Manager
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Calc
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Catfish
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Character Map
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| File Manager
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Mousepad
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Notes
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Onboard
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Orage
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Screenshot
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Terminal
| Y
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Xfburn
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Mines
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Sudoku
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Doc Viewer
| Y
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Gimp
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| gThumb
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Ristretto
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Simple Scan
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Pidgin
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Thunderbird
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Transmission
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| XChat
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| gmusicbrowser
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Parole
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Pavucontrol
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Abiword
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Dictionary
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Gnumeric
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Orage Calendar
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| Orage Globaltime
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|-
| Gigolo
| 
| 
| X
| 
|-
| IBus
| 
| Y
| 
| ***
|-
| Task Manager
| 
| Y
| 
| 
|}

* Autopilot runs with no error
* * Autopilot runs and returns error (failing to load autopilot module, fails after specifying Gtk)
* ** Requires -i Gtk to run
