{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 10 Nov at 20:59 &mdash; 21:31 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-11-10-20.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 21:00.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 21:03.

** Mugshot's camera functionality is restored in Zesty
** We've decided to move forward with several GTK3 Xfce components in Zesty, you'll see updates throughout the cycle

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 21:08.

* '''SGT Puzzles Collection (sgt-launcher) in Zesty (bluesabre)''' (21:08)
* '''File Manager (flocculant)''' (21:14)
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-z-filemanager 
** ''LINK:'' https://piratenpad.de/p/thunar-patches 

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 21:15.

** Unit193 to schedule next meeting

==== Milestones ====
The discussion about "Milestones" started at 21:16.

** ''ACTION:'' akxwi-dave to get back on milestones/testing plan

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* akxwi-dave
** akxwi-dave to get back on milestones/testing plan

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (54)
* flocculant (28)
* bluesabre (24)
* akxwi-dave (16)
* meetingology (5)
* nairwolf (1)
* Unit193 (0)
