{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 25 Jun at 10:00 &mdash; 11:00 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-06-25-10.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 10:01.

* '''Inxi''' (10:02)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Utopic/Inxi 
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to mail the devel list re inxi
* '''Hexchat''' (10:09)
** https://github.com/hexchat/hexchat/issues/1030
** https://github.com/hexchat/hexchat/issues/1008
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi To start pidgin/irc discussion on m/l
* '''-core''' (10:28)
** ''LINK:'' https://trello.com/c/nZWgYTb2/64-xubuntu-core-call 
** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster Add core information to FAQ

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 10:44.

** Testing is very quiet, little action happening at all
** ochosi is working towards replacing light-locker-settings with settings in xfce4-power-manager. Might or might not happen for 14.10 though.
** bluesabre is preparing to apply for upload-rights to the xubuntu package-set
** ''ACTION:'' Team leads should try to finalize their blueprints for Utopic until the next meeting (in two weeks) so the release-team can ack them.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:58.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 10:59.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi up to set the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* ochosi
** ochosi To start pidgin/irc discussion on m/l
** ochosi up to set the next meeting
* Unit193
** Unit193 to mail the devel list re inxi
* **UNASSIGNED**
** slickymaster Add core information to FAQ
** Team leads should try to finalize their blueprints for Utopic until the next meeting (in two weeks) so the release-team can ack them.

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (113)
* elfy (88)
* Unit193 (34)
* meetingology (9)
* Noskcaj (9)
* xubutrello (4)
* ubottu (1)
