{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 28 Sep at 21:32 &mdash; 21:58 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-09-28-21.32.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 21:37.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to look at installer slideshow and make sure everyting is up-to-date
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-z-filemanager 
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre and Unit193 to write a report of the state of Thunar (eg. which patches we carry and what they should do) and make sure all of them are in a PPA

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 21:40.

** We didn't release Final Beta due to bug 1622303
** Final Freeze October 6 â€“ thursday next week
** little testing done for beta, I called a halt to it
** qa/dev lots of backwards and forwards on sorting out the lock bug

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 21:49.

* '''Light-locker (bluesabre/flippylant)''' (21:49)
* '''Other discussion (and badge handings)''' (21:53)

==== Yet another announcement section ====
The discussion about "Yet another announcement section" started at 21:54.

** Release Candidate next week
** ''ACTION:'' Xubuntu-team to test and report on tracker
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to please double check mugshot and webcams after enabling it
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to update development blueprints for end of cycle

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 21:58.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre and Unit193 to write a report of the state of Thunar (eg. which patches we carry and what they should do) and make sure all of them are in a PPA
** bluesabre to please double check mugshot and webcams after enabling it
** bluesabre to update development blueprints for end of cycle
* knome
** knome to look at installer slideshow and make sure everyting is up-to-date
* Unit193
** bluesabre and Unit193 to write a report of the state of Thunar (eg. which patches we carry and what they should do) and make sure all of them are in a PPA
* Xubuntu-team
** Xubuntu-team to test and report on tracker

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (52)
* fliberty (45)
* bluesabre (36)
* meetingology (9)
* flocculant (2)
* Unit193 (2)
* ubottu (1)
* Xubuntu-team (0)
