{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Information about Ubuntu 10.04 ==

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/ReleaseNotes|Release Notes]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidLynx/TechnicalOverview|Technical Overview]]</nowiki> concern all Ubuntu derivatives and Ubuntu specifically. 

Read on for specific improvements in Xubuntu.

== What's new in Xubuntu ==

Some of the highlights of the 10.04 release include:

* Xubuntu now uses PulseAudio to provide an improved audio experience.
* Settings menu has been tidied to make it easier to configure your Xubuntu desktop.
* The "Ubuntu Software Center" introduced in Ubuntu 9.10 replaces the "Add/Remove ..." option provided in earlier Xubuntu versions.
* Xsane has been replaced in favor of SimpleScan to ease setup and operation of scanners.
* Gnumeric has been updated to version 1.10.1, resolving most of the issues seen in earlier Xubuntu versions.
* For game enthusiasts, Xubuntu comes with a revamped selection of games including classics such as Mahjongg, Sudoku and Solitaire.
* Due to incompatible changes in gnome-screensaver, xscreensaver is now the default screen saver.
* Prefer the classic Xfce desktop defaults? Xubuntu now offers users the choice to select between a classic Xfce session and a Xubuntu session.
* Xubuntu's theme, Albatross, has been updated to the latest version from the Shimmer team.

== Bugs ==

* There is a critical bug in Abiword that causes a freeze for most users when anything under the Help menu is selected. This does cause you to lose the document you are working on. (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/519541|519541]]</nowiki>)
* The Xubuntu documentation still advertises the 9.10 version.
