{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Voting Procedure ==
''A date proposal so the rest can vote on which is more convenient.''

Please only vote if you plan to attend regularly or if you are an Xubuntu developer. If you are an official Xubuntu developer (ie. a member of the xubuntu-team team on launchpad.net), please vote with {*} (<code> {*} </code>). If there is a date that you can NEVER make, please use {X} (<code> {X} </code>). You may also use {OK} (<code> {OK} </code>) to denote a secondary date which is also acceptable. Everyone else, please '''only''' use (./) (<code> (./) </code>).

To vote, just add a <code> {*} </code> to the proposal you prefer, between the <code> || || </code> characters. For example, whilst editing, 2 votes would look like this:

'''''code listing'''''
<pre>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| {*} {*}
|}
</pre>

== Proposed dates ==

The current date poll is to determine the day of the week and time that the biweekly Xubuntu team meetings should occur. Please only vote if you plan to attend regularly or if you are an Xubuntu developer:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Monday
| Tuesday
| Wednesday
| Thursday
| Friday
| Saturday
| Sunday
|-
| All day
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| {OK}
| {OK}
|-
| 1500 UTC
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
| {X} {*}
| 
| {OK}
|-
| 1600 UTC
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
| {X}
| 
| 
|-
| 1800 UTC
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 1900 UTC
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 2200 UTC
| 
| {X}
| {*} (./)
| 
| {OK}
| 
| 
|-
| 2300 UTC
| 
| {X}
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 2400 UTC
| 
| {X}
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}

== Help to see UTC and your time Zone ==
<nowiki>[[http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html|Time conversion help]]</nowiki>

Or in a '''terminal''', <code>date</code> to see your current date and <code>date -u</code> to see current UTC time...
<pre>
$ date
Mon Dec 26 18:02:29 CLST 2005

$ date -u
Mon Dec 26 21:02:30 UTC 2005
</pre>

If you require any more help, feel free to ask!

== Discussion ==

* Voted. -- CodySomerville  * Voted. I just inserted my preferred dates, I'm available on Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays from 15:00 or 16:00 UTC, but it'd be very cluttered that way. -- VincentZekred  * Added some more dates that I can't do -- CodySomerville 