{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 04 Aug at 08:31 &mdash; 09:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-08-04-08.31.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 08:37.

** ''LINK:'' http://paste.openstack.org/show/5KhCuR1s4j0RGIc5sav0/ 
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to split up the xubuntu-core workitem on the blueprint to be able to track the progress better

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 08:48.

** ochosi pushed several updates to Greybird to improve the look of CSDs, can be tested via the shimmer-daily PPA
** ochosi started working on an "a11y" version of Greybird's window manager theme, WIP can be checked out and commented on here: https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird/tree/xfwm4-a11y
** ''DONE:'' bluesabre and micahg uploaded shimmer-themes 2.0.0 to wily

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 08:54.

** there's a new 14.04 LTS point release coming up, please help with testing!
** more information at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-August/010839.html
** General information on 14.04.3: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-August/010838.html

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 09:00.

** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-March/010670.html 
* '''Seeds & Composition XSD Review''' (09:08)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-March/010670.html 
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-sd-seeds-composition 

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 09:19.

** slickymaster is to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* Unit193
** Unit193 to split up the xubuntu-core workitem on the blueprint to be able to track the progress better

=== Done items ===

* bluesabre and micahg uploaded shimmer-themes 2.0.0 to wily

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (102)
* ochosi (90)
* Unit193 (18)
* meetingology (7)
* ObrienDave (1)
* ubottu (1)
* krytarik (0)
