{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by knome at 18:01:47 UTC. Meeting ended at 18:26:59 UTC. The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-12-08-18.01.log.html.

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Ongoing Business ====
** Ubuntu moving to 5-year release schedule for LTS  (knome, 18:02:38)
** micahg created a proposal/draft for Xubuntu LTS's, can be read at https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-December/008082.html  (knome, 18:03:36)
** Wait one more week for comments/discussion on the mailing list  (knome, 18:08:13)
** Voting on the draft by micahg in the next community meeting  (knome, 18:08:36)
** Following micahg's plan would also maintain our recognized derivative status  (knome, 18:09:39)
** Meeting times  (knome, 18:09:48)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to set up a new schedule for meetings, where meetings would ideally happen in the middle of the week to make it easier for the release meeting updates  (knome, 18:10:46)

==== Team updates ====
** Packaging, Development  (knome, 18:11:04)
** not too much going on, just some font package name changes and armhf coming online  (micahg, 18:12:08)
** Bug Triage, Testing  (knome, 18:12:18)
** Website, Documentation  (knome, 18:13:38)
** we had website sprint on Saturday, results here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-December/008071.html  (pleia2, 18:14:15)
** we need feedback on useful stuff for http://wp.xubuntu.org/developertools/  (knome, 18:15:04)
** we probably need a third (and hopefully final) website sprint, more information will be on the mailing lists later  (knome, 18:16:39)
** Marketing, Artwork  (knome, 18:16:54)
** We now have a twitter account at @XubuntuLinux  (pleia2, 18:17:37)
** and stickers! I've detailed how others can make them too here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing#Current_projects  (pleia2, 18:17:52)
** General updates  (knome, 18:20:38)

==== Announcements ====
** No announcements.  (knome, 18:23:19)

==== Other Business ====
** No other business.  (knome, 18:26:55)

=== Action items, by person ===
* knome
** knome to set up a new schedule for meetings, where meetings would ideally happen in the middle of the week to make it easier for the release meeting updates

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (58)
* GridCube (13)
* pleia2 (10)
* micahg (6)
* madnick (5)
* meetingology (4)
