{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-05-30 Meeting Minutes ===

==== Old Business ====

* email the ML with proposed meeting days and times, Mon, Tues only for days - action completed
** meetings will alternate Monday at 19:00 UTC and Sunday at 22:00 UTC
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward/after natty releases

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* GTK2 will be used for Oneiric Ocelot. GTK3 will need to be there to support the Ubuntu/Gnome applications such as Software Center
* Syncing of latest Xfce is being done by mr_pouit and micahg
* Need to replace GDM with lightDM.
* pastebinit will be installed as a cli application by default.
* seeds: https://code.launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/ubuntu-seeds/xubuntu.oneiric

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Alpha1 testing will begin on 2011-05-31.
** Soupermanito, beardygnome will assist in testing the Oneiric Ocelot images.
** drc will begin daily installation testing of the images for alpha1.
* Testing wiki - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Canonical RT set up the staging site for wordpress. Unfortunately, this can not be used by the Xubuntu Team to test wordpress as a website.
** knome and pleia2 will work together to set up a test site for wordpress.
* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.
* We need to get more people than me and knome involved in marketing, please?
* "marketing" definition:
** news releases, blogs, release parties, !OpenWeek, !DeveloperWeek, !UserDays
** http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/06/01/six-months-of-rocking-ubuntu-events/
** Anything we can do to promote Xubuntu
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing

===== Artwork =====

* ochosi started a design initiative in xfce
** It's mostly about optimizing the UI
** Anyone can participate
** There is a compact xfwm4 theme now
** Wiki page is here: https://wiki.xfce.org/design/start
* Our artwork team <nowiki>[[ http:--wiki.knome.fi-shimmer:greybird | goals]]</nowiki>

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* '''!TeamReports''' need to be updated - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports
** This is the end of May, please feel free to add whatever you are doing for Xubuntu to this report.
* The next linux kernel will be called linux 3.0 instead of 2.6.40
* We do have a support channel for spanish support, that is not included in the !es factoid. It is #xubuntu-es .

==== Any Other Business ====

* Next meeting is in one week, June 5, #xubuntu-devel, at 22:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-05-30 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Action items for the 2011-05-30 meeting ====

* Email the Mailing Lists about meeting on alternate days weekly. Completed
* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.
** Until we have more participation, Xubuntu will not be trying to set up a governing council.
** There will be an addition to the Stradegy Document to select a new Project Lead by vote.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-05-30 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** mr_pouit
** micahg
** drc
** holstein
** ochosi
** Unit193

Started logging meeting in #xubuntu-devel

[19:59]  * charlie-tca looks around for those attending the meeting

[19:59]  * micahg pokes his head up

[19:59]  * drc arrives early so he can get a seat down front.

[20:00] <drc> closer to the refreshments!

[20:00]  * charlie-tca thinks at least the front row isn't empty now

[20:00] <charlie-tca> Welcome to the Xubuntu Community Meeting!

[20:01]  * micahg could use some refreshments

[20:01] <charlie-tca> We have a few things to discuss today, the full agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[20:01] <mr_pouit> o hai

[20:01]  * charlie-tca gives micahg a soda

[20:01] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit made it, too!

[20:01]  * micahg thanks charlie-tca for the soda

[20:01]  * holstein lurks as well

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Here is the agenda, for

[20:02] <charlie-tca> those who can't get the web page to work today

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Old business - all

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     email the ML with proposed meeting days and times, Mon, Tues only for days

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Team updates - Team Leads

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     Packaging & Development

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     Bug Triage & Testing

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     Website & Marketing

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     Artwork

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     Documentation

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Announcements - Project Lead

[20:02] <charlie-tca>     TeamReports need to be updated

[20:02] <charlie-tca>         https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Governance structure - all

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Any Other Business - all/anyone

[20:02] <charlie-tca> First Item: email the ML with proposed meeting days and times, Mon, Tues only for days

[20:02] <charlie-tca> that isn't right.

[20:03] <charlie-tca> We can not hold meetings on Tuesday or Wednesday

[20:03] <charlie-tca> I suppose the easiest solution to it would be to hold every other meeting on Sunday?

[20:03] <charlie-tca> All opposed?

[20:04] <charlie-tca> comments as to best time?

[20:04] <charlie-tca> by the silence, do we assume any time is fine for everybody?

[20:05] <micahg> I'm pretty open on Sunday

[20:05] <charlie-tca> Okay, proposed:  Hold the meetings on Mondays at 19:-00 and Sunday at 22:00 alternating weeks?

[20:06] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: will that be too late for you?

[20:06] <charlie-tca> I am hoping for maximum participation if we get times that anyone interested can attend

[20:06] <mr_pouit> no, it'll be okay

[20:07] <charlie-tca> Any objections?

[20:07] <charlie-tca> motion passed by majority silence; Next weeks meeting will be Sunday at 22:00 UTC

[20:07] <charlie-tca> next item -   knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward

[20:08] <charlie-tca> knome: Have you had a chance to think on this?

[20:08] <charlie-tca> Marketing plays a key role in almost every aspect of a distribution, so this is an important item for us.

[20:08] <charlie-tca> We need to get more people than me and knome involved in marketing, please?

[20:09] <drc> Define "marketing"

[20:09] <drc> please")

[20:09] <charlie-tca> This includes news releases, blogs, release parties,

[20:09] <holstein> is there a marketing team? or wiki page?

[20:10] <charlie-tca> anything we can do to promote Xubuntu, including maybe open week, developer week, etc.

[20:10] <charlie-tca> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing

[20:11]  * holstein bookmarking

[20:11] <charlie-tca> Team updates - Team Leads

[20:11] <charlie-tca>      Packaging & Development

[20:11] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: updates?

[20:12] <charlie-tca> hm, silence is not GOLDEN today

[20:12] <mr_pouit> a few syncs/merges by me, for the main work: almost all panel plugins synced thanks to micahg ;-)

[20:12] <mr_pouit> sorry, laggy wifi

[20:13] <charlie-tca> I hate those lags

[20:13] <charlie-tca> Anything we can do about xfce4-notifyd : Conflicts: notification-daemon so we can get the alpha1 images to work?

[20:14] <mr_pouit> something is pulling notification-daemon, but I didn't really investigate what

[20:14] <micahg> I think we're pulling in the GNOME stack again

[20:14] <mr_pouit> probably a new dep since natty, because it was fine at that time

[20:14] <charlie-tca> yup

[20:14] <mr_pouit> yeah, very likely

[20:15] <charlie-tca> we have alpha1 this thursday, so if we can fix this, we get an image. At least go for the alternate image this time

[20:15] <charlie-tca> desktop images look bad for everybody today

[20:15] <micahg> can we switch to lightdm or is that too crazy to change?

[20:15] <micahg> that should get rid of some of the deps

[20:15] <charlie-tca> Ubuntu already has, haven't they?

[20:15] <micahg> no, blocked on MIR, that doesn't affect us

[20:16] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: what do we need to do to switch from gdm to lightdm?

[20:16] <mr_pouit> that it works ;p

[20:17] <micahg> it does, the sample greeter is good enough to log in with

[20:17] <charlie-tca> Can t test it until we have a working image

[20:17] <mr_pouit> (I've heard bad things from a pkg-xfce debian maintainer who has tested it, not sure it was the latest release ;-)

[20:17] <micahg> well, I have had 0.3.5 logging into xubuntu on oneiric w/out issue

[20:17] <mr_pouit> okay, then I guess it's fine

[20:18] <micahg> can't speak to working on an image though

[20:18] <mr_pouit> no pam/ck/pk issue?

[20:18] <micahg> wfm, shows a user list, but so does gdm by default

[20:18] <mr_pouit> eh, lag again >.<

[20:18] <micahg> I haven't stress tested it yet

[20:19] <charlie-tca> It is not forcing you to start gnome-keyring or anything?

[20:19] <micahg> once I login, it uses gnome-keyring

[20:20] <charlie-tca> If mr_pouit is okay with it, I am willing to fight with it too. It will help us get the bugs out of it.

[20:21] <micahg> oh, can we kick parole out of recommends?

[20:22] <mr_pouit> yeah, we should definitely switch to lightdm, but before alpha1, that's seems a bit difficult

[20:22] <charlie-tca> where do I find the seeds for Xubuntu? I need to know that too

[20:22] <charlie-tca> micahg: How about we switch right after alpha1 then, since we need to make an image work real soon like.

[20:23] <charlie-tca> hm, my lag just went up to 1 second

[20:23] <micahg> that's fine with me, I just don't remember what was pulling in unity

[20:23] <mr_pouit> micahg: it's the default "media" player after all (gmusicbrowser is only for music collections)

[20:24] <micahg> mr_pouit: orly?  I thought gmusicbrowser was supposed to do it all

[20:24] <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: launchpad.net/ubuntu-seeds, somewhere in code (xubuntu.oneiric)

[20:24] <charlie-tca> Thanks, mr_pouit

[20:24] <charlie-tca> micahg: no, gmusicbrowser can not play a cd

[20:24] <charlie-tca> or a movier, either

[20:24] <micahg> ah, ok, I missed that then

[20:25] <charlie-tca> Isn't parole a movie player?

[20:25] <micahg> charlie-tca: re seeds: https://code.launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/ubuntu-seeds/xubuntu.oneiric

[20:25] <charlie-tca> Thanks

[20:25] <charlie-tca> so, parole will need to stay

[20:26] <charlie-tca> exaile was replaced by gmusicbrowser, right?

[20:27] <charlie-tca> Moving along in spite of our lags, next topic is Bug Triage & Testing

[20:28] <charlie-tca> I have SouperManito and beardygnome signed up to test starting Tuesday. and I don't show either one here today :-(

[20:29] <charlie-tca> bugs might be getting ahead of us again, but mr_pouit is doing good trying to stay on top of the most serious ones.

[20:29] <charlie-tca> Questions for anything covered so far?

[20:30] <holstein> is there a testing wiki?

[20:30] <charlie-tca> yes, there is

[20:30] <holstein> i plan on running a test install ASAP

[20:30] <charlie-tca> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing

[20:31] <charlie-tca> I been trying each day to get the alternate images to install.

[20:31] <charlie-tca> The good??? news is Ubuntu and Kubuntu desktop images also fail today :-(

[20:32] <holstein> :/

[20:32] <holstein> its early

[20:32] <charlie-tca> yes, it is, but with that alpha1 on June 2, it should be working today

[20:33] <charlie-tca> That brings us to Artwork

[20:33] <ochosi> right

[20:33] <charlie-tca> Xfce now has a design team starting, which could really be a *big* benefit to us

[20:33] <charlie-tca> go ahead, ochosi

[20:34] <ochosi> sry, people i'm late

[20:34] <ochosi> hope i didn't miss too much important stuff

[20:34] <charlie-tca> looks right on time, to me.

[20:34] <ochosi> so yeah, i started a design initiative in xfce

[20:34] <ochosi> together with JPohlmann

[20:35] <ochosi> it's mostly about optimizing the UI

[20:35] <ochosi> in general anyone can participate, but we haven't announced it yet on the xubuntu mailinglists

[20:35] <ochosi> i think the xfce-guys are enough for a start

[20:35] <ochosi> and then we'll see how it goes

[20:35] <ochosi> other than that i've been experimenting with small improvements to greybird

[20:36] <ochosi> but nothing spectacular yet

[20:36] <ochosi> there is a compact xfwm4 theme now

[20:36] <ochosi> it's not complete yet, but usable

[20:36] <ochosi> it's only 18px high, for those who want to save on vertical pixels

[20:36] <ochosi> about the xfce design stuff

[20:36] <ochosi> you're welcome to participate

[20:36] <ochosi> wiki page is here: https://wiki.xfce.org/design/start

[20:37] <charlie-tca> I think any optimizations upstream are going to benefit us, and might even mean less work at our level.

[20:37] <ochosi> and feel free to contact me or jannis in #xfce-dev

[20:37] <ochosi> yes, the kind of changes we're planning (and doing) should really happen upstream

[20:38] <charlie-tca> Any changes for greybird that we should be aware of?

[20:38] <ochosi> not really

[20:39] <ochosi> at least not at the moment

[20:39] <charlie-tca> Any questions about artwork or upstream design?

[20:42] <charlie-tca> Comments about anything discussed so far?

[20:42] <charlie-tca> Announcements

[20:42] <charlie-tca> TeamReports need to be updated - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports

[20:43] <charlie-tca> This is the end of May, please feel free to add whatever you are doing for Xubuntu to this report.

[20:43] <charlie-tca> Alpha1 will be oversized, please don't report bugs about that

[20:44] <charlie-tca> The next linux kernel will be called linux 3.0.0 instead of 2.6.40

[20:44] <micahg> charlie-tca: actually, just 3.0 :)

[20:45] <mr_pouit> huhu

[20:45] <charlie-tca> We do have a support channel for spanish support, that is not included in the !es factoid

[20:45] <charlie-tca> It is #xubuntu-es, and feel free to direct those requiring support to it.

[20:46] <charlie-tca> Dapper Drake is EOL on June 1. Doesn't really affect us, but will affect those running a server with it.

[20:46] <micahg> \o/

[20:46] <charlie-tca> We are seeing an increase in users in #xubuntu. Let's try to

[20:47] <charlie-tca> give them the best support we can. I know we are doing that already, and it really is great to see!

[20:47] <ochosi> mr_pouit: what are the chances we get the thunar startup-lag-fix in natty?

[20:48] <mr_pouit> there's no fix currently

[20:48] <charlie-tca> Governance structure

[20:49] <charlie-tca> At this time, until we have more participation, I do not see us trying to set up a governing council. I think I said that a couple of months ago, but want to make sure it is known.,

[20:49] <charlie-tca> I will be adding to the Stradegy Document how to select a new Project Lead by vote, though.

[20:50] <charlie-tca> hm, there's that marketing thing again. increase participation in Xubuntu

[20:50] <ochosi> mr_pouit: i thought there's one in git?

[20:51] <charlie-tca> Thunar 1.2.2 was supposed to have the fix, I think

[20:52] <ochosi> mr_pouit: i meant that: http://git.xfce.org/xfce/thunar/commit/?id=5ce61f48171c9b95e8b89e0d2c53a7bfbeb9ac93

[20:52] <mr_pouit> ochosi: it's still not ideal, check xfce bug 7373, that was reopened

[20:52] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 7373 in slocate (Debian) "CAN-2003-0848: heap overflow in slocate" [Unknown,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/7373

[20:52] <mr_pouit> ubottu: no, not that one

[20:52] <ubottu> mr_pouit: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)

[20:52] <ochosi> oh, ok, i didn't notice it was re-opened

[20:53] <charlie-tca> https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=7373

[20:53] <ubottu> bugzilla.xfce.org bug 7373 in general "g_file_new_for_uri ("network://") seems to slow down Thunar's startup" [Normal,Reopened]

[20:55] <charlie-tca> Any Other Business - Anyone

[20:55] <charlie-tca> Any one have anything to bring up? This is like an open mic time

[20:57] <charlie-tca> Thank you all for attending this meeting. Next meeting will be Sunday June 5 at 22:00 UTC.

[20:57] <charlie-tca> LEe

[20:58] <micahg> for open mic: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykwqXuMPsoc

[20:58] <charlie-tca> Oh, before I forget, apps for Oneiric?

[20:58] <charlie-tca> Do we need further discussion on what is going into it?

[20:58] <charlie-tca> I want applications decided as early as possible

[20:58] <ochosi> micahg: this is not office-save :)

[20:59] <charlie-tca> someone want to go ahead and email the ML to get the applications picked?

[21:00] <charlie-tca> or are we all happy with what we have in natty and won't change anything except gdm to lightdm?

[21:00] <micahg> +1 I think

[21:00] <charlie-tca> Great!

[21:00] <charlie-tca> Glad we got a h

[21:00] <charlie-tca> happy bunch of people here.

[21:01] <charlie-tca> let's test this week!

[21:01] <Unit193> Would we be able to add pastebinit?

[21:01] <micahg> mr_pouit: BTW, you can drop the browser plugin from parole as a recommends, Debian dropped and and so did we when I sync'd it

[21:01] <charlie-tca> Unit193: as a default in a menu?

[21:01] <drc> holstein: You still around?

[21:02] <Unit193> charlie-tca: It's a cli app that's nice for support

[21:02] <holstein> drc: o/

[21:02] <holstein> whats up?

[21:02] <drc> \o/

[21:02] <micahg> mr_pouit: actually, that poses a problem since we don't have a media plugin for the browser anymore :(

[21:02] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit, micahg : can we add pastebinit as a default installed application without a menu item?

[21:02] <micahg> charlie-tca: sure, I think :)

[21:03] <drc> You were talking about running a install test...was this a daily or periodic install test?

[21:03] <micahg> charlie-tca: although, we might have a space problem, thunderbird and firefox will bulk up this cycle (chrisccoulson is looking on how to slim them down), lightdm should give us some space though

[21:03] <charlie-tca> We have a person in #xubuntu needs help with his installed 11.04 sticking at busybox

[21:04] <charlie-tca> We aren't hurting yet for space, are we?

[21:04] <drc> holstein: You were talking about running a install test...was this a daily or periodic install test?

[21:04] <mr_pouit> yeah,we could add pastebinit if it's useful

[21:05] <holstein> drc: i have selfish motivations

[21:05] <charlie-tca> it is useful, when troubleshooting

[21:05] <holstein> ubuntustudio is moving to XFCE

[21:06] <holstein> and thats why i want to have xubuntu up and running ASAP

[21:06] <holstein> im looking forward to US being able to leech from you guys for a bit ;)

[21:06] <drc> holstein: Yeah, I read that somewhere.

[21:06] <charlie-tca> yes, we should welcome UbuntuStudio over to Xubuntu this cycle!

[21:06] <holstein> and i hope soon we can be of the size team that can contribute back :)

[21:07] <charlie-tca> and any help we can give them will be greatly appreciated, too.

[21:07] <mr_pouit> micahg: don't speak about that, I still don't know why the upstream dev decided to drop it :[

[21:07] <holstein> yeah, we are really excited about the switch

[21:07] <charlie-tca> And this is a good reminder that what we do does affect more than just Xubuntu.

[21:08] <micahg> mr_pouit: ok, well if it used mozilla specific interfaces, that would be a good reason, if it was pure NPAPI, no idea

[21:10] <charlie-tca> xfce bug 7373

[21:10] <ubottu> xfce bug 7373 in general "g_file_new_for_uri ("network://") seems to slow down Thunar's startup" [Normal,Reopened] https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=7373

[21:10] <micahg> \o/

[21:10] <drc> Don't forget about the BusyBox user in #xubuntu (I have no idea how to help him, or I would)

[21:11] <charlie-tca> That's right. mr_pouit has about a two to three minute lag, so I wanted to make sure we didn't miss anything from him before ending

[21:12] <Unit193> It drops to busybox if it can't boot anything else

[21:13] <charlie-tca> He is dropping to busybox every few boots

[21:13] <charlie-tca> If someone could help him out, it would be great

[21:13] <charlie-tca> I know enough to suggest an fsck

[21:14] <charlie-tca> Okay, I will get these minutes written up asap, and we will see everybody again on Sunday

[21:14] <charlie-tca> Thanks for coming

[21:15] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: thanks for putting with us with that lag of yours.

[21:20] <mr_pouit> yeah, sorry /o\

[21:21] <charlie-tca> np,

[21:21] <charlie-tca> no problem

[21:21] <charlie-tca> As long as we know to wait long enough, it works :-)

Meeting ended.

Full logs of this channel meeting are available at:

For those wanting an easy to read log:
 http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/30/%23xubuntu-devel.html

Normal text log:
 http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/05/30/%23xubuntu-devel.txt
