{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-09-19 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

* charlie-tca to get FFe filed for xubuntu-meta to add blueman to seeds - Carried Forward
* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - Postponed until LTS
* charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu - Done
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Development/ReleaseProcess
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS
** Consumes too much memory bug has been fixed
* activate the "maybe-ubiquity" option for LTS - Carried Forward

* New upstream bugfix releases uploaded: libxfce4util, xfdesktop4, xfce4-session
* Build failures fixed: libxfcegui4, exo
* Misc uploads: xfce4-dev-tools, xfce4-utils, gigolo, xfwm4
* micahg converted gimp & catfish to dh_python2 (so probably some space gained on the isos \o/).
* lightdm-gtk-greeter theming issue in progress, maybe :p
* Launchpad bug 831488 in gnome-bluetooth (Ubuntu Oneiric) "gnome-bluetooth should Recommends gnome-control-center" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/831488

Thanks to the testers for their efforts Saturday and Sunday. Gnome updates started today.

* Beta2 testing starts tomorrow; please update tests on the QA ISO tracker at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/
** Beta2 testing requires the long test for Xubuntu, found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing/TestingInfo/Long
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

* The wordpress site has been approved. We are now in the process of converting http://xubuntu.org from drupal to wordpress
* We need to be telling people they can submit articles anytime they want.

* Lightdm greeter theme might make it into Oneiric

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

* The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-09-25 at 22:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** We are now in UI Freeze and Beta2 Freeze; archives will remain frozen until final release.
** 11.10 Beta2: September 2
** 11.10 Final Freeze: September 29
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
* We need to update the Team Reports this week.

* Discussion on new Xubuntu Testing interface being written by GridCube.

* Blueprints
** We should blueprint at least for default applications and have one uds session for default apps
** it would eliminate the time gap we have now deciding what is going to stay and what is going to change
** This could be a single blueprint; specifying goals for Xubuntu for the release cycle

* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-09-11 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
** The meeting scheduled for 2011-09-05 was cancelled

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

* Nominations for project lead are now open.
** Those wishing to nominate themselves or others should do so by email to either mailing list, or myself (charlie-tca@ubuntu.com).
** Nominations will close October 20, 2011, and the community election will be held at the meeting on October 23, 2011. If there are issues with this, please let us know between now and October 20.

==== Action items ====

* verify top 10 FAQ and check help links in 10

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-09-19 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/09/19/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Meeting ended Mon Sep 19 20:00:06 2011 UTC.
Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-09-19-19.01.moin.txt

Minutes:

=== People present (lines said) ===

* charlie-tca (129)
* GridCube (68)
* madnick (35)
* mr_pouit (18)
* micahg (16)
* meetingology (5)
* Unit193 (4)

=== Full Log ===

 19:01:40 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting Xubuntu

 19:01:40 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Sep 19 19:01:40 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 19:01:40 <meetingology>

 19:01:40 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 19:02:04 <charlie-tca> #meetingname Xubuntu Community Meeting

 19:02:04 <meetingology> The meeting name has been set to 'xubuntu_community_meeting'

 19:02:24 <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 19:02:26 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 19:02:46 <charlie-tca> #topic === Old Business ===

 19:03:15 <charlie-tca> suggestion, if you are here for the meeting, use o/ or here or something so we log everyone

 19:03:42 <madnick> o/

 19:04:13 <charlie-tca> well, small group with a lot of important things to do!

 19:04:18 <charlie-tca> * charlie-tca to get FFe filed for xubuntu-meta to add blueman to seeds

 19:04:27 <charlie-tca> micahg: did we decide if we need this yet?

 19:04:41 <micahg> no, sorry, and I know we're getting close to the end here

 19:05:08 <micahg> after reboot my bluetooth stopped working on my netbook as well, I have to reboot again to verify

 19:05:18 <micahg> will try to do this week, not happening for beta 2

 19:05:19 <micahg> ..

 19:05:34 <charlie-tca> Okay, let's try not to forget then.

 19:06:04 <charlie-tca> * charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu - Done

 19:06:06 <charlie-tca> * https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Development/ReleaseProcess

 19:06:25 <charlie-tca> Any one that wants to review that page and let me know what is missing is welcome to.

 19:06:47 <charlie-tca> #topic === Team updates ===

 19:07:10 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Packaging & Development ====

 19:07:20 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Your turn, sir.

 19:07:25 <mr_pouit> \o

 19:07:28 <Unit193> Late, but here

 19:07:32 <mr_pouit> * New upstream bugfix releases uploaded: libxfce4util, xfdesktop4, xfce4-session

 19:07:40 <mr_pouit> * Build failures fixed: libxfcegui4, exo

 19:07:46 <mr_pouit> * Misc uploads: xfce4-dev-tools, xfce4-utils, gigolo, xfwm4

 19:07:56 <mr_pouit> * micahg converted gimp & catfish to dh_python2 (so probably some space gained on the isos \o/).

 19:08:14 <mr_pouit> lightdm-gtk-greeter theming issue in progress, maybe :p

 19:08:21 <charlie-tca> Yay! room for another language, maybe!

 19:08:37 <mr_pouit> a new bugfix release of thunar is probably being prepared as we speak

 19:08:43 <micahg> charlie-tca: doubtful, was small, but on the alternates we can probably add one more back

 19:09:14 <mr_pouit> and I think that's all (micahg, feel free to add anything I forgot)

 19:09:16 <mr_pouit> ..

 19:09:34 <charlie-tca> Thank you very much. You developers have been busy this week

 19:09:42 <madnick> o/

 19:09:48 <GridCube> :D

 19:09:50 <charlie-tca> Go ahead, madnick

 19:09:58 <madnick> I have a question about some greeter related stuff for the LTS

 19:10:05 <madnick> Should I save it for "other talk"?

 19:10:19 <charlie-tca> Oh, go ahead while we have mr_pouit here

 19:10:40 <madnick> Ok, can we use GTK + Webkit or GTK + mozembed?

 19:10:49 <madnick> in C ofc

 19:10:51 <micahg> madnick: mozembed is dead

 19:10:54 <madnick> oh

 19:11:13 <micahg> well, for Ubuntu at least :0

 19:11:31 <madnick> It's a really clean way of making it very themable and also maintainably and changable for other releases

 19:11:40 <madnick> Easy to theme for artists

 19:11:48 <charlie-tca> not if it is dead, though

 19:11:57 <madnick> Webkit is not dead tho

 19:12:01 <micahg> we have no xulrunner anymore and it's probably not coming back

 19:12:03 <charlie-tca> what about GTK+webkit? That should be okay, right?

 19:12:20 <micahg> yeah, but webkit seems heavy for a greeter

 19:12:39 <madnick> It was 2MB with O3 static linked

 19:12:47 <mr_pouit> (it's already in the default install fwiw)

 19:12:52 <micahg> madnick: it's on the images, I have no inherent problem with it expect if it's slow

 19:13:00 <micahg> *except

 19:13:00 <madnick> oh okay

 19:13:02 <madnick> cool :)

 19:13:13 <micahg> madnick: and we're not static linking :)

 19:13:18 <mr_pouit> there was a webkit greeter in the eraly versions of lightdm, but apparently it's not included by default anymore

 19:13:26 <mr_pouit> *early

 19:13:44 <madnick> yup

 19:13:46 <madnick> But its doable :P

 19:14:03 <madnick> at mr_pouit *

 19:14:04 <charlie-tca> Yeah, lot of changes in lightdm, and more coming :)

 19:14:57 <charlie-tca> Any other comments/questions for Packaging and Development?

 19:15:41 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 19:16:02 <charlie-tca> Thanks to the testers for their efforts Saturday and Sunday. Gnome updates started today.

 19:16:23 <charlie-tca> We know the images from yesterday are valid, if we have to fall back to them

 19:16:41 <charlie-tca> Beta2 testing starts tomorrow; please update tests on the QA ISO tracker at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/

 19:16:56 <charlie-tca> Beta2 testing requires the long test for Xubuntu, found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing/TestingInfo/Long

 19:17:14 <charlie-tca> Any help with getting these tests done would be greatly appreciated!

 19:17:34 <charlie-tca> This is the last milestone before we get the final images

 19:17:40 <GridCube> o/  : beta2 tests days are 20 and 21?

 19:18:06 <charlie-tca> yes, they are

 19:18:23 <charlie-tca> Beta2 releases on Thursday, September 22

 19:18:30 <GridCube> :) ok, 21 is Spring Day so no schools are open :D

 19:18:35 <charlie-tca> Great!

 19:18:59 <charlie-tca> Today's images are for smoketesting, which we did, so I did not call for tests today

 19:19:13 <charlie-tca> They will be rebuilt today/tonight, though

 19:19:16 <charlie-tca> We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

 19:19:30 <charlie-tca> Let's make sure we keep adding the bugs to this.

 19:19:38 <charlie-tca> Any questions or comments for testing?

 19:19:55 <madnick> o/

 19:20:01 <charlie-tca> Go ahead, madnick

 19:20:04 <GridCube> I'll leave mine for Other Bussiness

 19:20:12 <madnick> I installed the Oneric image from yesterday, could someone check if:

 19:20:31 <madnick> Its replicatable to double click on a langauge of the keymap selection and it will never be able to pick another langauge again?

 19:21:02 * madnick has ran out of space on hdd for new images

 19:21:03 <charlie-tca> That seems bad

 19:21:08 <madnick> will delete some tomorrow

 19:21:33 <charlie-tca> just go to settings ->Keyboard -> and pick a new one?

 19:22:02 <madnick> On the install

 19:22:16 <charlie-tca> oh! in the installer itself

 19:22:21 <madnick> yes :)

 19:22:30 <charlie-tca> will try it after the meeting, then

 19:23:08 <charlie-tca> You should be able to pick a language, and pick a different one, since a bad hit on the keyboard can make you miss the language you wanted.

 19:23:45 <charlie-tca> Okay, any one else?

 19:24:04 <charlie-tca> madnick: did you file a bug for that?

 19:24:17 <madnick> charlie-tca: no sorry, i wanted to see if it was replicatable

 19:24:35 <charlie-tca> That's okay. It is good to get it verified

 19:24:44 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Website & Marketing ====

 19:24:50 <GridCube> o/

 19:24:50 <charlie-tca> pleia2: your turn

 19:25:32 <charlie-tca> knome: you here?

 19:25:38 <charlie-tca> well, I am.

 19:26:30 <charlie-tca> The wordpress site has been approved. We are now in the process of converting http://xubuntu.org from drupal to wordpress

 19:26:56 <charlie-tca> We should have the site converted in time for final release of Oneiric

 19:27:16 <charlie-tca> We need a good news article for Beta2 release Thursday

 19:27:54 <charlie-tca> We also need release notes written up for beta2

 19:28:03 <charlie-tca> any volunteers?

 19:28:47 <madnick> I am terrible at english :( Unfortunetly

 19:28:50 <charlie-tca> madnick: was the issue with live session or install from the menu?

 19:28:56 <GridCube> i can't log to irc from work, so no :(

 19:28:58 <madnick> charlie-tca: live session

 19:29:02 <madnick> wait sorry

 19:29:21 <madnick> It was the install directly from the boot menu

 19:29:30 <madnick> But yes, a live image

 19:29:35 <charlie-tca> Okay

 19:29:45 <charlie-tca> Any questions on website?

 19:29:50 <GridCube> o/

 19:30:10 <GridCube> Someone needs to review the top 10 FAQ to see if they are ok, and no dangerous things are in them, also check question 10 for the help links that i dont know

 19:30:12 <charlie-tca> GridCube: go ahead

 19:30:46 <charlie-tca> #action verify top 10 FAQ and check help links in 10

 19:30:46 * meetingology verify top 10 FAQ and check help links in 10

 19:31:01 <charlie-tca> Thank you for the reminder, GridCube

 19:31:05 <GridCube> :)

 19:31:23 <GridCube> ..

 19:31:25 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Artwork ====

 19:31:30 <charlie-tca> ochosi: any update?

 19:31:48 <GridCube> o/

 19:31:56 <charlie-tca> go ahead, GridCube

 19:32:10 <GridCube> i know this is a very late thing to ask but

 19:32:38 <GridCube> its posible to update the shipped wallpapers? or we have had to do that long before?

 19:32:50 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: ^ ^

 19:32:52 <GridCube> its cool to have new wallpaper to atract people

 19:33:17 <charlie-tca> madnick: not a bug

 19:33:21 <GridCube> and i don't think its so hard to choose a few from a free repositorie

 19:33:30 <GridCube> ..

 19:33:58 <madnick> charlie-tca: okay :)

 19:34:13 <charlie-tca> it lets me choose fillipino and then go back to english

 19:34:27 <madnick> charlie-tca: you double clicked right?

 19:34:30 <madnick> Not just 1 click

 19:35:20 <charlie-tca> depends on the language, perhaps. I am now stuck in Kyrgyz

 19:35:29 <charlie-tca> but I hit continue and went back

 19:35:40 <charlie-tca> file the bug, I will confirm it

 19:35:43 <madnick> Okay

 19:35:48 <mr_pouit> GridCube: it might be a bit late, but you should check with ochosi & knome if they have something new/ready

 19:36:08 <GridCube> ok :)

 19:36:10 <charlie-tca> I think he wants to change the other ones we supply

 19:36:16 <GridCube> that is

 19:36:50 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: he wants to replace the old / supplied wallpaper package

 19:37:08 <mr_pouit> which ones? from xubuntu, or xfce?

 19:37:11 <GridCube> the ones that commonly come to choose, if we keep shiping the same ones it would seem we are stuck there, but if we have a bunch of new ones that would be atracting to people?

 19:37:17 <GridCube> both?

 19:38:10 <mr_pouit> xubuntu-bluebird-notext.png  xubuntu-bluebird.png  xubuntu-greybird.png  xubuntu-karmic-gdm.png  xubuntu-karmic.png

 19:38:19 <mr_pouit> we only ship these ones in xubuntu-artwork

 19:39:08 <charlie-tca> hm, karmic is probably the only one we could replace, since bluebird is in the lts and greybird is in natty and oneiric

 19:39:14 <GridCube> I see, so they are all xubuntu-related

 19:39:53 <GridCube> i remember, from the top of my head, a flower wallpaper in the menu, thats from xfce?

 19:40:05 <mr_pouit> yeah, the remaining ones are shipped by xfdesktop

 19:40:18 <micahg> if they're taking up too much space, we could create a xubuntu-artwork-archive or somethign

 19:40:30 <GridCube> mmkay so we don't have any control over them

 19:40:44 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: xubuntu-karmic is also used by lucid, bluebird has only appeared for 10.10

 19:40:46 <micahg> or xubuntu-artwork-historical

 19:40:46 <GridCube> micahg: my idea, or question, is to ship more, or different

 19:40:46 <charlie-tca> Not too much space, just trying to change things up

 19:41:08 <GridCube> just to spice things up :P

 19:41:35 <micahg> I'd say add more (why not drop a good thing)...if space is an issue, we can split the historical ones out

 19:41:35 <charlie-tca> well, play with keyboard selection in the live installer, it will spice you up

 19:41:44 <micahg> *why drop

 19:42:14 <charlie-tca> Something to look at for lts?

 19:42:36 <GridCube> that should be nice :)

 19:42:45 <GridCube> i think its a very late thing to ask now

 19:42:50 <charlie-tca> agreed

 19:43:04 <GridCube> ..

 19:43:13 <charlie-tca> #topic === Announcements ===

 19:43:29 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-09-25 at 22:00 UTC

 19:43:31 <charlie-tca> * Important dates coming up:

 19:43:33 <charlie-tca> * We are now in UI Freeze and Beta2 Freeze; archives will remain frozen until final release.

 19:43:35 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Beta2: September 2

 19:43:37 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Final Freeze: September 29

 19:43:39 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 19:43:41 <charlie-tca> * We need to update the Team Reports this week.

 19:43:47 <charlie-tca> Archive will remain frozen until final release, but we can still get things in

 19:44:15 <charlie-tca> #topic === Any Other Business ===

 19:44:28 <GridCube> charlie-tca: [16:43] <charlie-tca>   * 11.10 Beta2: September 2  ?Â¿?

 19:44:40 <charlie-tca> oops

 19:44:48 <charlie-tca> make that September 22

 19:44:53 <GridCube> :P

 19:45:01 <GridCube> o/

 19:45:02 <charlie-tca> Thanks for catching that, grid

 19:45:06 <charlie-tca> Thanks for catching that, GridCube

 19:45:09 <GridCube> :D

 19:45:09 <charlie-tca> go ahead

 19:45:15 <GridCube> I've been working on a Testing Interface, as you might know, it needs some polishing, but i think its fairly ok so far, I can give the code to you people if you wish to host it on another server, besides of that please tell me what else needs to be worked on.  http://gridcube.netii.net/test/XubuntuTestingsCenter.html In the same topic i've started working on a simple interface to load the proposed tests for a day, so it doesn

 19:45:46 <GridCube> ..

 19:46:01 <charlie-tca> It does make adding test results very easy.

 19:46:10 <GridCube> :)

 19:46:20 <charlie-tca> I haven't had a chance to really test it yet, but I like the way it looks so far!

 19:46:29 <GridCube> :D thank you

 19:46:43 <charlie-tca> We are going to switch from google docs for LTS testing

 19:46:56 <charlie-tca> we just don't have everything worked out yet

 19:47:09 <GridCube> oh, in that topic

 19:47:18 <charlie-tca> yes?

 19:47:22 <GridCube> there is an api to send the stuff to a google doc

 19:47:24 <Unit193> I would like to edit things if I make an oopsie and checking to see what others have done also

 19:47:51 <GridCube> Unit193: it shows what test have been done in a day

 19:48:01 <madnick> Well, a solution would be to register, without email requirement, but bot protection, Unit193

 19:48:12 <GridCube> there is no check part

 19:48:35 <GridCube> i could figure out how to make a check buffer, It migth not be really hard

 19:48:40 <charlie-tca> so we could use it to send the results to google doc?

 19:48:51 <GridCube> we could

 19:48:52 <GridCube> charlie-tca: yes

 19:49:03 <charlie-tca> which would allow easy correction and the chance to see all the tests that have been already?

 19:49:16 <GridCube> but i don't know how we could recover the test that were done in a day

 19:49:19 <charlie-tca> Let's do that, please

 19:49:46 <charlie-tca> If they are in google doc, we should be able to look at them directly, shouldn't we?

 19:50:01 <GridCube> yes... but the confusing part will remain

 19:50:22 <charlie-tca> well, let's try it

 19:50:25 <GridCube> the whole idea was to be able to see what test where done in a day in an easy and fast way to not duplicate eforts

 19:51:02 <charlie-tca> We can use a simple week to set the tests up and not have to change them all the time. They should be the same for each week

 19:51:05 <GridCube> I will see if i can retrieve the tests from an expecific date using it, it might be posible

 19:51:31 <GridCube> that can be done, i did that the first timne

 19:51:36 <charlie-tca> yes

 19:51:45 <GridCube> now it has particular tests for particular days

 19:51:53 <GridCube> it also has news for those days

 19:52:03 <GridCube> we couldnt do that whit week days

 19:52:18 <charlie-tca> which is what we want, since monday tests are different than tuesday tests, but every monday, the tests are the same

 19:52:27 <GridCube> yes

 19:52:48 <GridCube> but what about betas or alphas days?

 19:53:00 <GridCube> or this past weekend? they had ALL TEST mode

 19:53:18 <charlie-tca> don't need them specifically different. We just announce through email and here what we are doing for special times

 19:53:23 <GridCube> ok

 19:53:26 <GridCube> :)

 19:53:39 <GridCube> will see what i can learn about the google api

 19:54:01 <GridCube> hopefully i will be able to set it up

 19:54:39 <GridCube> so far i know that i will have to create a new google account for it, it needs user/password to work

 19:54:51 <charlie-tca> really?

 19:54:55 <GridCube> yes

 19:55:06 <charlie-tca> okay,

 19:55:15 <charlie-tca> what about using the wiki for it?

 19:55:26 <Unit193> Meeting over?

 19:55:27 <GridCube> for what?

 19:55:29 <charlie-tca> not yet

 19:55:37 <charlie-tca> test results

 19:55:52 <Unit193> I think that GDoc is easier than wiki editing though

 19:55:54 <GridCube> oh, I don't know

 19:56:08 <GridCube> i could save the results to a text file?

 19:56:11 <charlie-tca> um, let's take this up later, we have one more bit to cover for the meeting before we lose people

 19:56:14 <madnick> one should be able to automatically put it on the wiki

 19:56:33 <GridCube> mmm i don't know about that

 19:56:37 <GridCube> it could be done

 19:56:44 <charlie-tca> won't work, since you must have edit approval to add/change the wiki

 19:56:50 <GridCube> okay charlie-tca :) please go on

 19:56:52 <charlie-tca> #topic === Xubuntu Governance ===

 19:57:06 <charlie-tca> * The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

 19:57:08 <charlie-tca> #subtopic Nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead

 19:57:20 <charlie-tca> How time flies...

 19:57:22 <charlie-tca> I have served as the Xubuntu Project Lead for three releases now. It has been a wonderful experience that I honestly enjoyed.

 19:57:34 <charlie-tca> However, in accordance with our governing document, I will now open nominations for the next month. Those wishing to nominate themselves or others should do so by email to either mailing list, or myself (charlie-tca@ubuntu.com).

 19:57:47 <charlie-tca> Nominations will close October 20, 2011, and the community election will be held at the meeting on October 23, 2011. If there are issues with this, please let us know between now and October 20.

 19:57:54 <charlie-tca> questions?

 19:58:13 <GridCube> nope

 19:58:47 <charlie-tca> Okay, let's get those nominations in, then!

 19:58:53 <GridCube> :D

 19:59:27 <charlie-tca> Thank you all for participating in the meeting! It is only with participation that this project grows and stays strong.

 19:59:53 <charlie-tca> If there is no other business, we will close the meeting...

 19:59:56 <charlie-tca> going...

 20:00:02 <charlie-tca> going...

 20:00:06 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
