{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 19 Dec at 19:04 &mdash; 19:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-12-19-19.04.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 19:08.

** Waiting for updates from bluesabre re menulibre
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2013-01-10#Action_items.2C_by_person 
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2013-12-12#Action_items.2C_by_person 
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 to keep an eye on SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to set up a new vm and get everyone's new bits in so I've got something to look at
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
** ''ACTION:'' Team members wanting things tested need to ensure a mail get's sent to the -dev list

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 19:15.

** Noskcaj needs testimonials for MOTU and Xubuntu Packageset. Please add one at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Noskcaj#Testimonials
** lderan has got basic autopilot tests working, an example one can be found at http://paste.ubuntu.com/6597150/
** slickymaster has been doing same packages testing and I've noticed that a few of them needed to be re-written, which I've done. So if someone comes across a a test that it's not accurate please ping me and I'll correct it
** Poor turnout for A1 testing
** QA and Marketing wrote Alpha1 announcement to go out once the image is set free
** waiting for agreement to release image with knome

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:20.

** Alpha1 is today!
** Happy Holidays
** ''ACTION:'' knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New ang emerging items" started at 19:27.

* '''Schedule next meeting''' (19:27)

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 to keep an eye on SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
* elfy
** elfy to set up a new vm and get everyone's new bits in so I've got something to look at
* knome
** knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
* **UNASSIGNED**
** ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
** Team members wanting things tested need to ensure a mail get's sent to the -dev list

=== People present (lines said) ===
* pleia2 (55)
* elfy (28)
* meetingology (15)
* slickymaster (4)
* jjfrv8 (4)
* Noskcaj (4)
* ali1234 (2)
* Unit193 (1)
* sergiobenrocha2 (1)
* knome (0)
