{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Xubuntu team report for May, 2011 ====

===== Bug Triage =====

* Triaged over 100 bugs this month. 
* Began smoke testing the images for Oneiric Ocelot. 

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Many bugs have been fixed.
* Released Natty Narwhal, Xubuntu 11.04 on April 29, 2011.
* Started work on the next release of Xubuntu, Oneiric Ocelot. 

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Approval has been received for the website to be converted to Wordpress.
* Website team is currently working out where to place a staging site for Wordpress. Staging site set up by Canonical is for them to test what we have only.
* Xubuntu needs a Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.

===== Artwork =====

* We still need a good plymouth theme. 
* Xubuntu needs an Artwork Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to get word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* The Xubuntu Community holds a regular meeting on Monday at 19:00 UTC in #xubuntu-devel.
* Minutes and Logs from the meetings are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings.
* The community meeting was held on 2011-05-23.

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.
