{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Brainstorming and discussion ===

==== Development ====
* Increase the amount of developers/uploaders
** [skellat] Pursue full packageset permissions or only package-specific permissions
* GTK3 indicator support
** Patch indicators to support Xfce components as indicator-sound does (e.g. indicator-power, indicator-datetime, session-menu etc.)
* New applications in the repositories/seed: <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/menulibre|MenuLibre]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/mugshot|Mugshot]]</nowiki>
** [skellat] Anything else that can be cherry-picked from Debian?
** (noskcaj) Certain 4.11 components are going to land in Experimental instead of Unstable which will block them making it into Testing for autosync
*** (micahg) We will only take the 4.11 components that support the GTK 3 indicator stack or the ones that were previously approved as minimal risk and desired, anything else needs to wait as we don't want to be stuck with a hodge podge of unsupportable stuff for the LTS
** Status/Health Check with Xfce as to 4.12.  Landing for LTS or not?
* Working locking with light-locker (get rid of xscreensaver for good)
* [unit193] Create a new installable "xubuntu-core" metapackage via adding to the seed configuration file found under https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-seeds once the T seeds are created by Colin Watson
** [skellat] Do we want this solely as a metapackage or do we want to generate a downloadable image with product manifest too?
* Investigate xfce4-whiskermenu-plugin
** For general information, check <nowiki>[[http://gottcode.wordpress.com/category/open-source/whisker-menu/|the developer's blog]]</nowiki> or this <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Whisker_Menu|wiki]]</nowiki> (in german)
* Investigate if we can still get python3 only on the iso
* See/ask if we can apply GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=Xubuntu
* Support Xfce with finishing/releasing 4.12
* Consider including xfdesktop4.11 (is already to be found in the xubuntu-dev 4.12 PPA)
* Consider dropping the bottom launcher panel in lieu of e.g. whiskermenu

==== Artwork, community, marketing, website... ====
* Community wallpapers package
* Finalize and publish the website theme refresh
* Update Wikipedia and other major sites with relevant/up-to-date information
* Communicate more towards users; more blog articles by the team members and guest writers
* Better social media presence (more administrators per outlet?)
** Contact the reddit.com/r/xubuntu admins
* Separate process-related stuff from Strategy Document
* Do we want to promote 64-bit images by default?
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2013-September/002539.html
* Improve reporting
** Weekly reports for the release team and monthly team reports
** Ways to make reporting and gathering reports easier? (lderan: meetingology fixes)
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2012-December/002115.html

==== Documentation ====
* Keep documentation up-to-date with new applications
* Expand documentation?
** [skellat] Include section on signing Ubuntu Code of Conduct
** [skellat] Look at what can be adapted from Ubuntu Manual for re-use
* Cooperate further with Ubuntu Documentation Project umbrella organization

==== QA ====
* Automated testing
** Image testing - aimed at first 'milestone' 
** Package testing - what apps do we want testing at a minumum, (anyone in 'team' that can move that on)
* Manual testing
** Images - dependent on automated; at least for milestone testing (including upgrade tests)
** Packages - base on general cadence testing? roll our own? (if the latter then input from all needed)
* Change to post install tests - new tests to replace current - new software post-install and new hardware post-install
* New apps etc. (indicators for instance) testing - information needed for people to install to test. Sufficient time to allow for testing.
* Use social media outlets to call for testing in addition to -devel list (- also include the -user list at milestones). How much leadtime to get that out onto social media - who to ping.
* Use xubuntu.org for more QA blog articles. Especially just prior to milestone testing
* http://pad.ubuntu.com/SdHxBbkLTO

==== New Ideas ====

* Investigate xfce4-power-manager-plugins for inclussion.
* Investigate <nowiki>[[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/pulseaudio/pulseaudio/plain/src/utils/qpaeq |qpaeq]]</nowiki> a system wide pulseaudio equalizer (something that Ubuntustudio might be interested as well?) <nowiki>[[http://www.webupd8.org/2013/03/install-pulseaudio-with-built-in-system.html|relevant link]]</nowiki>
* Update the minimum recommended amount of ram to 1GB. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GridCube/rationales/new_ram|rationale]]</nowiki>
* Investigate integrating Ubuntu One file syncing by default 
** <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/15710/ubuntu-one-for-xfce-or-xubuntu]]</nowiki>
