{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 16 Oct at 10:32 &mdash; 11:16 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-10-16-10.32.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 10:37.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a mail to the mailing list about phasing out "Team updates" in the meetings

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 10:42.

** QA - call for RC testing went out yesterday
** Final Freeze is now in effect
** parole 0.8.1 accepted for wily
** Our libreoffice-elementary-theme is now upstream in LibreOffice
** the numbers on the tracker look excellent, good work everyone http://tracker.xubuntu.org/

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:49.

* '''Last minute Wily issues for discussion''' (10:50)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/W/DefaultMediaPlayer 
* '''Core ISO/ CD:DVD''' (10:55)
* '''15.10 RC and testing''' (10:58)
** that
** Please test RC images and upgrades in good time
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant once tracker is up to date to mail user list re RC
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2015-October/003403.html 
* '''16.04 Milestones''' (11:02)
** From a development perspective, we're targeting bug fixes to make 16.04 super stable.  Don't expect a lot of new features, so testing done at all parts of the cycle will be incredibly relevant
* '''16.04 Package Testing''' (11:08)
** Package Testing coming back for 16.04
** Usability bug reports are fair game. These changes really make Xfce and Xubuntu easier to use for lots of people. If things don't seem quite right with an application, let us know.
** Since we're targeting bug fixes and not so much new features with the next cycle, we can likely expect rapid reviews and fixes. More on this in future discussions.
* '''Bug Tagging''' (11:14)
** please remember to mark bugs with xubuntu-exp and the version, if using a ppa xubuntu-exp version ppa

==== Schedule Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule Next Meeting" started at 11:15.

** ''LINK:'' https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Xubuntu+Team+Meeting&iso=20151016T20&p1=%3A&ah=1&am=30 
** Please join us at later today at 20:00 UTC for Meeting #2
** https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Xubuntu+Team+Meeting&iso=20151016T20&p1=%3A&ah=1&am=30

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* flocculant
** flocculant once tracker is up to date to mail user list re RC

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (86)
* flocculant (57)
* krytarik (10)
* meetingology (5)
* slickymasterWork (3)
