{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 02 Sep at 10:00 &mdash; 10:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-09-02-10.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 10:02.

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 10:07.

** xfpanel-switch and patched xfce4-panel now available in wily and included on daily image
** knome updated debian/copyright for documentation
** knome made the "Official Documentation" part on the startpage more prominent
** knome created a timeline of finished work items in the status tracker
** flocculant sent exploratory testing information to testers via ML
** pleia2 got first batch of flyers printed

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 10:12.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:13.

* '''Stop doing team updates on meetings''' (10:14)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a mail to the mailing list about phasing out "Team updates" in the meetings
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to send a mail to the mailing list about phasing out "Team updates" in the meetings

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* slickymasterWork (36)
* knome (32)
* bluesabre (10)
* meetingology (6)
* dkessel (3)
* Unit193 (1)
