{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2010-12-09 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* I did email the developer of LightDM, he believes it should be ready in time for Natty release, but we have no dates yet on when we can actually try it

=== Team updates ===
==== Packaging & Development ====

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Natty/Xfce4.8
* legacy: Uploaded thunar-vfs 1.1.1
* core: Uploaded remaining packages from 4.8~pre1, and all packages from 4.8~pre2
* panel-plugins: ~25 rebuilt, ~17 to go
* dailies are still broken because all panel plugins are not rebuilt yet

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* existing bugs need to be reviewed with the change to Xfce4.8. Many will no longer be valid
* bugs that remain valid may need a new backtrace
* apport at this time does not work for Natty Xubuntu bugs

==== Website & Marketing ====

* xubuntu.org is still using our old logo and everything

==== Artwork ====

* ochosi has done a lot of work on greybird and faenza-xfce icons
** please take a look at them if you have time, and give some feedback
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty
* for those wanting to find the logo and icons, they are now on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork
* I will notify the artwork group that we need to set the date March 14 to close submissions
 
==== Documentation ====

* introduced Book_em_Dano, who is updating Xubuntu documentation
* working on updates to the Natty branch and most of those changes can be applied to maverick
** as many people as possible need to review the latest docs in bzr
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/SystemDocumentation/Repository gives directions
** lp:xubuntu-docs is the lastest branch of the documentation
* also reviewing the docs for lucid so that updated docs are available for updates

=== PowerPC and PS3 ports for Natty ===

* Xubuntu will discontinue the PS3 port completely, since the manufacturer doesn't want the os changed anymore
* Xubuntu will continue with the PowerPC port, but until we get testers for it, we will not be producing the release milestones, thus it will not release as 11.04

=== Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2 ===

* Since we have many updates to 10.04 when it is installed, charlie-tca wants to publish the 10.04.2 image.
** This will allow us to get the changes in and save those installing it some bandwidth. We know not all places have the fastest thing going, and unlimited downloads available.
* Major Mozilla updates are Firefox 3.6 has Out of process plugins for flash now and Thunderbird will be 3.1.x.

=== Announcements ===

* Xubuntu does not have any daily iso right now, but the alpha1 image is good, http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/11.04/alpha-1/
* There will be no meeting on 2010-12-23
  
=== Governance Discussion ===

* nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead are due to the Community Council by December 15
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2010-November/007614.html

=== Any Other Business ===

* Thunderbird will be moving to 3.1.7 very soon. If anyone wants to test it on lucid, it's staged in the ubuntu-mozilla-security PPA.
* Next meeting is in one week, December 16, here, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-12-09 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

=== Action items for the next meeting ===

* notify community artwork that wallpaper will close on 2010-03-14
* pleia2 to check on converting website to new logo and icons
