{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* Xubuntu community meeting, 2013-01-24
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-01-24-15.02.moin.txt]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
* ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2013-01-10   (smartboyhw, 15:07:29)
* Testing list sent to knome  (bluesabre_, 15:09:53)

==== Team updates ====
* ARTWORK: i'm working on our icon-theme quite a bit lately, people can check the progress here: https://github.com/shimmerproject/elementary-xfce  (ochosi, 15:19:53)
* ARTWORK: people can test/use them in any of our releases (P,Q,R). i'll be soon trying to weed out useless icons and duplicates, so keeping the theme locally up-to-date to check whether icons go missing would be helpful testing for me  (ochosi, 15:20:57)
* ''ACTION:'' ochosi to send testing-instructions to knome  (ochosi, 15:21:25)
* DOCUMENTATION: We're going to push the documentation SRU for 12.04 to the .3 release (this summer) instead of trying to get it in for .2 (which is coming up quick)  (pleia2, 15:23:28)
* DOCUMENTATION: We still don't have a docs lead, so if there is anyone interested in pitching in on docs for 13.04, please do :)  (pleia2, 15:24:07)
* WEBSITE: Opened a few bugs to update screenshots on the site, which I'm planning on completing this week  (pleia2, 15:24:33)
* ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to complete outstanding screenshot update bugs  (pleia2, 15:24:49)
* ''LINK:'' http://mail.xfce.org/pipermail/xfce-i18n/2013-January/008324.html   (GridCube, 15:31:48)

==== Announcements ====
None.

==== New ang emerging items ====
* ''ACTION:'' GridCube to create and moderate xubuntu-group on deviantart  (pleia2, 15:42:16)

=== Action items, by person ===
* ochosi to send testing-instructions to knome
* pleia2 to complete outstanding screenshot update bugs
* GridCube to create and moderate xubuntu-group on deviantart

=== People present (lines said) ===
* pleia2 (85)
* GridCube (34)
* ochosi (24)
* bluesabre_ (16)
* micahg (15)
* mr_pouit (10)
* frustratedtech (7)
* meetingology (7)
* olbi (2)
* smartboyhw (2)
* knome (0)
* maddernick (0)
