{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== 2011-02-03 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* Old business - all
** Xubuntu marketing plans - carried forward
** We need to start either a ML item or webpage item for marketing

=== Team updates ===

==== Packaging & Development ====

* Xfce4.8.1 has a few package updates. all the 4.8.1 packages are mainly bug fixes.
* We do not have an official PPA for Xfce4.8 to add it to Xubuntu 10.10 or 10.04. The individual ppa's available are unofficial by people not associated with Xubuntu or Xfce

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* We have kept the number of new bugs level this week.
* Testing of the Natty Alpha2 images went great! 
** Thanks to knome and j1mc for helping with it
* thunderbird-locales in lucid-proposed passed verification, maverick-proposed still needs testing
* Firefox 3.6.14 (Hardy-Maverick) and Thunderbird 3.1.8 (Lucid and Maverick) are available here for testing: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mozilla-security/+archive/ppa, they'll be released next week when Mozilla releases if there are no issues

==== Website & Marketing ====

* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.

==== Artwork ====

* The proposed generic icons for default apps in xubuntu are now being discussed.
** An incomplete icon list is http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:generic_app_icons , inputs are welcome.
** Some of the icons in Elementary have been taken from Humanity, mostly copied over.. and if just copied over, they should be attributed ;)
* we now a a list of what is happening with gmusicbrowser at http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:natty_gmb

=== Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2 ===

* We will be testing the images for 10.04.2 February 15
* We have documentation that is actually for 10.04

=== Discuss default applications to be used in Natty ===

* gmusicbrowser will replace exaile
** Grab the gmusicbrowser from the ppa for testing. It is greatly improved over the repositories 
** https://launchpad.net/~shimmerproject/+archive/ppa
** does shimmer gmb theme work on small screens now?
* firefox will remain the default browser
* thunderbird will remoain the default mail client
* still to be decided - lightdm to replace gdm

=== Announcements ===

* Natty Narwhal Alpha2 will release today

=== Any Other Business ===

* Next meeting is in one week, Frebruary 10, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-02-03 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Action items for the 2011-02-03 meeting ===

* thunderbird-locales needs testing in lucid-proposed
** Launchpad bug 705028 in thunderbird-locales (Ubuntu Natty) "Update Thunderbird translations to 3.1.7" [Wishlist,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/705028
* discussion about generic icons to replace existing brand icons needs to be on ML

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

== 2011-02-03 Meeting Log ==

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting

People Present:

* charlie-tca
* highvoltage
* micahg
* beardygnome
* knome
* vish
* mr_pouit
* Sysi

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting

[13:01:58] <charlie-tca> this is the regularly scheduled Xubuntu Community Meeting.

[13:02:29] <charlie-tca> the full agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[13:02:58] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old business

[13:03:17] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] * Xubuntu marketing plans

[13:04:00] <highvoltage> hey charlie-tca

[13:04:13] <charlie-tca> I have not had any time to pursue this further yet, myself. However, if there are any ideas or someone can take an action to put this together on the wiki, please let us knwo.

[13:04:18] <highvoltage> not sure if this is old news already but congrats on being official xubuntu lead :)

[13:04:25] <charlie-tca> Thanks, highvoltage

[13:05:14] <charlie-tca> If there is no one to take the marketing plans up yet, I will carry it forward, so we don't lose the basics

[13:06:04] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Team updates

[13:06:32] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Packaging & Development

[13:06:40] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: any updates today?

[13:08:26] <charlie-tca> okay, I can try. Xfce4.8.1 has a few package updates. all the 4.8.1 packages are mainly bug fixes.

[13:09:17] <charlie-tca> We do not have an official PPA for Xfce4.8 to add it to Xubuntu 10.10 or 10.04. The individual ppa's available are unofficial by people not associated with Xubuntu or Xfce

[13:09:22] <charlie-tca> any questions?

[13:10:17] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Bug Triage & Testing

[13:10:45] <charlie-tca> Testing of the Natty Alpha2 images went great! thanks to knome and j1mc for helping with it

[13:11:09] <charlie-tca> Any questions for bugs and testing?

[13:11:13] <micahg> o/

[13:11:20] <charlie-tca> Go ahead, micahg

[13:11:20] <micahg> comments more that questions

[13:11:43] <micahg> thunderbird-locales in lucid-proposed passed verification, maverick-proposed still needs testing

[13:11:56] <charlie-tca> I forgot, I am sorry to say

[13:12:44] <micahg> also, Firefox 3.6.14 (Hardy-Maverick) and Thunderbird 3.1.8 (Lucid and Maverick) are available here for testing: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mozilla-security/+archive/ppa, they'll be released next week when Mozilla releases if there are no issues

[13:13:48] * micahg is done :)

[13:13:50] <charlie-tca> Any help with testing is greatly appreciated. these packages in -proposed are pretty important to get done.

[13:14:31] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Website & Marketing

[13:14:50] <charlie-tca> Any one have an update? pleia2 is not able to make the meeting today.

[13:15:51] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Artwork

[13:17:05] <charlie-tca> ochosi brought up the question of possible generic icons for default applications.

[13:17:28] <beardygnome> hi all, sorry i'm late - got stuck at work

[13:17:39] <charlie-tca> The proposed generic icons for default apps in xubuntu, here is a list, but it's not that *all* of the suggestions have to be accepted or denied, we can also select one or more we like

[13:17:44] <charlie-tca> welcome, beardygnome

[13:18:16] <charlie-tca> The icon list is http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:generic_app_icons , inputs are welcome.

[13:18:51] <charlie-tca> I would propose that we take this to the ML, if there are no objections to doing it that way.

[13:20:12] <charlie-tca> One icon in particular we need to do something with is Application Finder and Catfish. they use the same icon now

[13:20:47] <micahg> is there a reason we're replacing icons for apps that should have their own icons?

[13:22:39] <charlie-tca> to the point of two the same, sure, it gets confusing. Also, ristretto's icon seems a bit ambiguous. We were thinking we might want one that is more "what is that" oriented.

[13:23:07] <charlie-tca> We are not proposing changing every icon, but there are a few we are looking at.

[13:24:01] <charlie-tca> When I look at icons like Abiword in Lucid vs natty, the notebook and pen icon in Natty actually made sense to me

[13:24:34] <charlie-tca> comments and questions?

[13:24:58] <beardygnome> i think it might be better keeping the original icons

[13:25:31] <beardygnome> that way if people are coming from other distros or os's they will feel more at home

[13:25:47] <micahg> +1

[13:26:14] <charlie-tca> the only issue I have with that is when the user adds both catfish and app finder in launchers, how do they know which is which?

[13:26:31] <charlie-tca> they match now

[13:26:35] <knome> i disagree. accessibility is also keeping the system easy to use for people who never even saw a computer. "photo" tells you that the application is used for browsing photos, "coffee cup" doesn't

[13:27:21] <beardygnome> imo that's one of the biggest problems with open source software

[13:27:32] <micahg> well, launcher vs app icon I think are 2 different things

[13:27:50] <charlie-tca> micahg: why? they both use the same icon

[13:27:54] <micahg> however, it would be cool WRT Firefox/TB to use their icons if they're selected and the generics if not

[13:28:05] <beardygnome> developers give apps "cool" names and icons which don't make sense

[13:28:14] <micahg> charlie-tca: I was saying that changing the launcher icon to generic makes sense

[13:29:01] <charlie-tca> The other question in my own mind is, if we change the icon on the launcher, will it not have to be changed in the menu, also?

[13:29:43] <charlie-tca> knome has a great point on the coffee cup. I would not ever guess that means a photo or image viewer

[13:29:54] <beardygnome> i would say that for well known apps, such as FF and TB we definitely should *not*/ chnage the

[13:30:02] <beardygnome> *them

[13:31:11] <beardygnome> and GIMP

[13:31:11] <charlie-tca> As proposed, there are only a few apps in the list right now. It can be expanded as needed, but it doesn't include anything well known

[13:31:50] <charlie-tca> I think we have to look at the link

[13:31:54] <beardygnome> FF, GIMP and TB are all on the current list

[13:31:55] <charlie-tca> [LINK] http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:generic_app_icons

[13:32:26] * charlie-tca slaps head

[13:32:47] <charlie-tca> You're right! I missed that.

[13:33:07] <charlie-tca> knome: any comment on those specifically?

[13:34:20] <knome> the list is only a draft and a proposal. it's done to gather comments and thoughts. i personally do not have a strong opinion in keeping or losing the branding, but the idea of changing the icons for launchers in panel/menu only sounds good.

[13:34:58] <charlie-tca> Do you want the comments sent to the ml to keep track?

[13:35:00] <beardygnome> what icons do we change atm?

[13:35:14] <charlie-tca> We use what comes in the icon set in use

[13:35:34] <knome> mailing list is okay.

[13:35:40] <charlie-tca> I can tell you, if you loaded Faenza icons, everything changes, regardless of branding

[13:36:04] <vish> o/ (one doubt..)

[13:36:10] <charlie-tca> yes

[13:36:14] <vish> charlie-tca, knome : what icon theme are these icons from? http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:generic_app_icons ?

[13:36:40] <knome> vish, i'd suppose elementary, but i didn't work on those icons, so i'm not 100% sure.

[13:36:51] <knome> vish, they might also be custom made.

[13:37:04] <knome> you'd have to ask ochosi about that

[13:37:19] <vish> yea.. since they have been taken from Humanity, mostly copied over.. and if just copied over, they should be attributed ;)

[13:38:24] <charlie-tca> the the best of my knowledge, knome is right, it is elementary

[13:38:58] <charlie-tca> vish: that should be taken up with the elementary icon set artist, shouldn't it?

[13:39:03] <knome> we'll make sure the licenses and attribution is correct once there is a decision

[13:39:04] <vish> elementary and Humanity have some same icons.. and i did some of those icons on that page :)

[13:39:27] <vish> charlie-tca: i'm part of the elementary team and am the maintainer of Humanity

[13:39:42] <vish> knome: thanks.. :)

[13:39:47] <knome> afaik, ochosi is in contact with danrabbit

[13:40:36] <charlie-tca> Okay, do we need an action for that or will you ask ochosi?

[13:40:59] <knome> well, we'll just make sure the attribution is correct if we decide something

[13:41:14] <charlie-tca> Great. Thank you for doing that

[13:41:50] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] discussion about generic icons to replace existing brand icons needs to be on ML

[13:42:09] <knome> added a note of that in the wikipage as well as told ochosi

[13:43:05] <charlie-tca> Thanks again. You know more of what that is about than I do

[13:43:33] <mr_pouit> these icons are in elementary-icon-theme I guess, so nothing to worry about attribution&

[13:44:11] <charlie-tca> And along with the icons discussion, we now a a list of what is happening with gmusicbrowser at http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:natty_gmb

[13:44:21] <charlie-tca> [LINK] http://wiki.knome.fi/xubuntu:natty_gmb

[13:45:15] <beardygnome> is gmb going to be the new default music player?

[13:45:27] <charlie-tca> that's what I was wondering too

[13:45:38] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Have we made any decision yet?

[13:46:01] <beardygnome> what's wrong with exaile?

[13:47:35] <mr_pouit> mmh, I think we agreed a few days ago to use it

[13:47:46] <mr_pouit> I was just waiting for the alpha 2 to be released to include it

[13:47:47] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: we have a comparison sheet at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Natty/DefraultMediaPlayer

[13:47:58] <charlie-tca> thank you, mr_pouit.

[13:48:11] <charlie-tca> Yes, gmb will replace exaile in Natty

[13:48:36] <micahg> working link: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Natty/DefaultMediaPlayer

[13:48:56] <charlie-tca> We have developers willing to work closely with us to get bugs worked, and specs improved in gmb

[13:49:10] <micahg> exaile development also seems dead

[13:49:10] <charlie-tca> thanks, micahg

[13:49:43] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2

[13:50:29] <charlie-tca> We will have a new image for this release. Testing starts the 15th for it

[13:50:45] <charlie-tca> We also have documentation that is actually for 10.04 in it!

[13:50:59] <charlie-tca> Anything else on 10.04.2?

[13:51:28] <charlie-tca> Trying to move along then, running out of time...

[13:51:43] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Discuss default applications to be used in Natty

[13:52:02] <charlie-tca> Want to tackle this ?

[13:52:36] <charlie-tca> I believe firefox vs chrome is still there, and lightdm vs gdm

[13:52:51] * micahg thought FF vs chrome was settled :-/

[13:53:05] <charlie-tca> am I behind again?

[13:53:08] <beardygnome> micahg: which way?

[13:53:09] <Sysi> FF4 fixes the slowness issue in firefox

[13:53:18] <micahg> FF :)

[13:53:39] <Sysi> not any fantasies

[13:53:50] <charlie-tca> comments/

[13:53:53] <charlie-tca> ?

[13:54:03] <beardygnome> i have installed the dev preview of FF$ in maverick and i think it's a big improvement

[13:54:08] <beardygnome> on FF3

[13:54:27] <beardygnome> but personally i'm happier with chromium

[13:54:28] <micahg> beardygnome: I have a testing PPA for the beta releases, ppa:mozillateam/firefox-next

[13:54:45] <Sysi> idk about RAM-usage but i wouldn't make users to switch from familiar and working program to google-slaved app

[13:55:11] <beardygnome> micahg: that's where i got it from :-)

[13:55:18] <mr_pouit> Sysi: eh, nice troll ;]

[13:55:24] <Sysi> chromium is pretty nice and fast i admit, but it's memory hog at least with multiple tabs

[13:55:48] <charlie-tca> firefox stays then, mr_pouit ?

[13:55:55] <Sysi> (and i don't like it's adblock and noscript addons)

[13:56:09] <beardygnome> Sysi: i will admit it's less stable than FF, but i can live with that for the moment.

[13:56:25] <beardygnome> i think FF is the better choice for default atm.

[13:56:55] <Sysi> mr_pouit: i put it in offensive way, but it's still think we should take into count

[13:56:55] <charlie-tca> [AGREED] keep firefox as the default browser

[13:57:21] <Sysi> (-is)

[13:57:35] <charlie-tca> um, do we have any other apps in discussion besides the login manager then?

[13:57:53] * beardygnome is installing gmb to give it a test drive

[13:58:07] <charlie-tca> it is nice, from the shimmer website

[13:58:17] <Sysi> i think email-client was decided in the mailing list

[13:58:26] <beardygnome> TB?

[13:58:38] <Sysi> iirc

[13:58:56] <Sysi> does shimmer gmb theme work on small screens now?

[13:59:12] <Sysi> i know many people use xubuntu on netbook

[13:59:34] <charlie-tca> Grab the gmusicbrowser from the ppa for testing. It is greatly improved over the repositories

[13:59:58] <charlie-tca> https://launchpad.net/~shimmerproject/+archive/ppa

[14:00:11] <beardygnome> where's the menu in gmb?

[14:00:16] <Sysi> i did try it but it was long time ago, i'll see

[14:00:23] <micahg> which PPA is this?

[14:00:28] <charlie-tca> knome: do you know if it works for small screens

[14:00:33] <beardygnome> i have to say on first viewing it doesn't seem very intuative

[14:00:37] <charlie-tca> that is the gmb ppa

[14:01:06] <charlie-tca> I am running it in natty.

[14:01:20] <beardygnome> found it

[14:01:23] <charlie-tca> that's the repository version, right, beardygnome ?

[14:01:31] <beardygnome> yes

[14:01:41] <beardygnome> you have to go to the settings menu

[14:01:42] <charlie-tca> That has been changed a lot alreadyu

[14:01:59] <charlie-tca> Even I could play music in the latest version

[14:02:01] <beardygnome> but that's not called settings, it's just an icon of a wrench

[14:02:31] <micahg> do you need someone to update natty to 1.1.6

[14:02:57] <charlie-tca> okay, enough on that. Send comments to either -devel mailing list, #shimmer or #xubuntu-devel

[14:03:22] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit, knome : you have an answer for micahg ?

[14:05:23] <charlie-tca> We are running a bit late again.

[14:05:45] <charlie-tca> let's ask in -devel, micahg

[14:05:46] <mr_pouit> micahg: yeah, either you or me ;-)

[14:06:08] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

[14:06:25] <charlie-tca> Xubuntu Natty Narwhal Alpha2 should be out very soon now

[14:06:48] <Sysi> (sorry for being late, i think that huge disk cover image won't fit to small screens)

[14:06:50] <charlie-tca> major bug: can not install amd64 desktop version without the workaround noted in the release notes

[14:07:10] <charlie-tca> knome: gmb issue?

[14:07:39] <Sysi> last time i heard about it, theme was made big

[14:08:01] <charlie-tca> Sysi: that is gmb, right?

[14:08:28] <Sysi> yup

[14:08:52] <Sysi> i think nice and pretty easy, but not gonna work on smaller screen

[14:08:55] <charlie-tca> It's in natty now, can you file a bug for that?

[14:09:36] <charlie-tca> I am skipping the launcher discussion, carried forward to next week

[14:09:45] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Busines

[14:09:50] <charlie-tca> s

[14:10:01] <Sysi> they then planned doing different small version, i could well report to them

[14:10:39] <charlie-tca> That will work good. They appreciate whatever reports we can give them

[14:11:10] <charlie-tca> any further discussions/comments/questions/ or other?

[14:11:47] <charlie-tca> We willl have a meeting next week, 2011-02-10, 19:00 UTC, here

[14:11:56] <charlie-tca> Let's go ahead and close this.

[14:12:30] <charlie-tca> I want to thank every one for attending and discussing today! You participation is really appreciated!

[14:12:36] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Meeting ended.
