{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 11 Jul at 15:00 &mdash; 16:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-07-11-15.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Mir, XMir, X, and stuff (with Jono Bacon) ====
The discussion about "Mir, XMir, X, and stuff (with Jono Bacon)" started at 15:01.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to collect details about Mir failures and email to -devel, jono and testers
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to rebuild the XMir ISO once sufficient changes land in the PPA.
** (11:47:17 AM) micahg-work: I would venture to say if it's not landed at least by Aug 15, that we defer to 14.04

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 15:51.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (15:51)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings#Xubuntu.2BAC8-Meetings.2BAC8-Archive.2BAC8-Minutes.2BAC8-2013-06-13.Action_items.2C_by_person 
** lightdm-gtk-greeter 1.6 is in the saucy repos
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2013-06-13 
** ''ACTION:'' skellat to continue work on items from 2013-06-13 meeting
** we do not have an interface for setting a user profile image
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to create a basic user-profile-image app
** completed completed submission guidelines for desktop image submissions
** ''ACTION:'' knome sends email about adding other members to xubuntu-release
** ''ACTION:'' greeter testcase still to be done - waiting for artwork
** ''ACTION:'' (11:47:17 AM) micahg-work: I would venture to say if it's not landed at least by Aug 15, that we defer to 14.04
** ''ACTION:'' elfy greeter testcase still to be done - waiting for artwork
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to ITP gtk-theme-config to Debian
** ''ACTION:'' elfy talk to balloons re daily builds/cadence testing if necessary for us
** ''ACTION:'' skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so
** ''ACTION:'' skellat to develop a proposal for consideration for more structured handling of Xubuntu bugs
** knome discussed xfce 4.12 release plans with nick, and the status is "we understand xubuntu's point of view, but we want to unbreak some more things and there is no estimate when that's done"

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates (All contributors)" started at 16:03.

** mrpouit uploaded a new version of shimmer-themes to saucy
** skellat is running Xfce on Jessie on his BeagleBoard and comparing how such runs with Xfce in Xubuntu
** lderan has started to write autopilot tests starting with the settings window
** elfy manual testcase call for help went out - plenty of response so far - we've got 18 left not claimed and I'd added 6 at the weekend
** skellat notes Jessie is Debian Testing
** elfy would really like people to talk to him about anything that they think needs testing planned for
** ''ACTION:'' team to talk with elfy if anything needs testing

==== Announcements ====
No announcements.

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 16:10.

* '''Members for Xubuntu release team''' (16:10)
** ''Vote:'' Sean (bluesabre) to be the "developer member" of xubuntu-release? +1 for yes, -1 for no (Carried)
** ''Vote:'' Lionel (mrpouit) to be the "developer member" of xubuntu-release? +1 for yes, -1 for no (Carried)
* '''Proposal for more structured handling of Xubuntu bugs''' (16:17)
** postponed to next meeting
* '''Xubuntu desktop showcase group progress''' (16:17)
** a group on dA http://xubuntu-showcase.deviantart.com/ still waiting for those who applied to join me to a walkthrough
** GridCube: Work on the wallpaper showcase its being done, we created a new site: http://xubuntu-showcase.deviantart.com/ we still need all the people who volunteer to join me on a walkthrough of the managing of the site
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 and GridCube prepare the social media broadcasting
* '''Changing the text on the settings menu''' (16:23)
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-settings/+bug/1173767 
** ''ACTION:'' elfy talk to mr_pouit re Settings Manager
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (16:28)
** elfy include lderan with Settings discsussion
** Next community meeting is on Thursday 18 July, 15UTC

=== Vote results ===
* Sean (bluesabre) to be the "developer member" of xubuntu-release? +1 for yes, -1 for no
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 8/0/0)
* Lionel (mrpouit) to be the "developer member" of xubuntu-release? +1 for yes, -1 for no
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 7/0/0)

=== Action items, by person ===
* elfy
** elfy greeter testcase still to be done - waiting for artwork
** elfy talk to balloons re daily builds/cadence testing if necessary for us
** team to talk with elfy if anything needs testing
** elfy talk to mr_pouit re Settings Manager
* GridCube
** pleia2 and GridCube prepare the social media broadcasting
* knome
** knome sends email about adding other members to xubuntu-release
* micahg
** (11:47:17 AM) micahg-work: I would venture to say if it's not landed at least by Aug 15, that we defer to 14.04
** micahg to ITP gtk-theme-config to Debian
* pleia2
** pleia2 and GridCube prepare the social media broadcasting
* skellat
** skellat to continue work on items from 2013-06-13 meeting
** skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so
** skellat to develop a proposal for consideration for more structured handling of Xubuntu bugs
* team
** team to talk with elfy if anything needs testing
* Unit193
** Unit193 to collect details about Mir failures and email to -devel, jono and testers
** Unit193 to rebuild the XMir ISO once sufficient changes land in the PPA.
* bluesabre
** bluesabre to create a basic user-profile-image app
** bluesabre: greeter testcase still to be done - waiting for artwork

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (169)
* jono (139)
* pleia2 (53)
* meetingology (44)
* elfy (41)
* skellat (40)
* bluesabre_work (37)
* micahg-work (28)
* lderan (22)
* GridCube (21)
* mrpouit (20)
* xnox (15)
* Unit193 (13)
* ochosi (4)
* ubottu (2)
* slickymaster (2)
* holstein (1)
* team (0)
