{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== In Attendance ===

* charlie-tca
* knome
* j1mc
* JPohlmann
* TheSheep
* nhandler
* SiDi
* MootBot :P

=== Minutes ===
* Review last meetings action items
** Delay setting up Xubuntu 5-a-day team until 5-a-day is working correctly again
* Team updates
** ACT: Team leaders will update Team Report before 22th April. (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports)
** Next two mondays are ISO testing days
* Xubuntu plans for Ubuntu Open Week (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek/Prep)
** Charlie has signed for one session on Monday
** We need to show off how good Xubuntu is to non-developers at Open Week
** ACT: Charlie signs up for another session at Ubuntu Open Week
** ACT: Keep a meeting about the Open Week sessions and outline things on Gobby
** ACT: Everybody advertises Open Week on #xubuntu from now to eternity
** Blog about (Xubuntu) Open Week (Sessions) before and after (preferably at Ubuntu Planet)
* Discuss any issues relevant to finalizing the 9.04 release
** ACT: Jannis bugs Xfce release manager in getting 4.6.1 out as soon as possible
** ACT: Jannis talks with Cody about including 4.6.1
** Charlie is compiling a list of critical bugs in Jaunty
** Jim is importing documentation translations from Rosetta/Launchpad with help from Matthew East and Adi Roiban
* Specifications and blueprints for (UDS) Karmic
** Current Xubuntu specifications
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/xubuntu-artwork/+spec/xubuntu-karmic-visual-concept
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/xubuntu-artwork/+spec/xubuntu-artwork-build-scripts
** We need more specifications from the Xubuntu team
** Look at old specifications and whether they are implemented and revisit or mark superseded
** "Xfce needs updated documentation" / "We should have much better documentation for Karmic"
** ACT: Jim adds a specification about branding and reworking the Xubuntu documentation artwork and looks.
** ACT: Pasi to update the CSS for the Xubuntu documentation with Jim.
** ACT: Steve (SiDi) helps Pasi and Jim with the documentation CSS if needed.
* Brainstorm ideas (from last meeting)
** http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/item/16756/: No action
** http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/10852/: Will fix for Karmic
* Increased tests for Live CD session
** ACT: Charlie to work on the Testing wiki pages and split them to be shorter and readable. (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing/TestingInfo/Short)
* Open discussion
** ACT: Pasi to bug about people about joining the Xubuntu Team and write documentation.
** ACT: Discuss shipping Xubuntu CD's in the Open Week planning session.
** ACT: Jim joined the gnome-dev mailing list and tries to make any new directions (relatively) platform independent
