{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 24 Nov at 17:59 &mdash; 18:55 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-11-24-17.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 18:00.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a proposal for the QA process to the -devel ML

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 18:02.

** knome worked on responsive design for the website
** pleia2 has been in contact with Unixstickers, they have a Xubuntu t-shirt now! http://www.unixstickers.com/tshirts/linux-and-tux-t-shirts/the-ultimate-xubuntu-linux-tshirt
** Marketing blueprint for Vivid is finally filled out, discussion later this meeting https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-v-marketing
** ''ACTION:'' knome and pleia2 to update the website once the t-shirt quality is checked
** QA checking and updating tests as they come up
** QA not much commenting done on the exploratory testing idea - will mail -dev list with more details

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 18:08.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 18:31.

* '''Vivid Marketing''' (18:31)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to contact Canonical IS to set up xubuntu-contacts mailing list
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to draft etherpad for user self-classification survey
** ''LINK:'' https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1cHinunM_sGz9CUABKVSxWy5dLJAuGYcNRVc9GJ976r4/viewanalytics 

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 18:54.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi (for XPL) to schedule next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to send a proposal for the QA process to the -devel ML
** knome and pleia2 to update the website once the t-shirt quality is checked
* ochosi
** ochosi (for XPL) to schedule next meeting
* pleia2
** knome and pleia2 to update the website once the t-shirt quality is checked
** pleia2 to contact Canonical IS to set up xubuntu-contacts mailing list
** pleia2 to draft etherpad for user self-classification survey

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (113)
* pleia2 (83)
* elfy (36)
* sidi (30)
* meetingology (11)
* habhatti (10)
* ali1234 (9)
* skellat (4)
* ochosi (0)
