{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

===== In Attendance =====
 
* vinnl
* mschemerii
* gpocentek
* jeromeg
* charlie-tca
* cody-somerville
* j1mc
* JPohlmann
* knome

===== Minutes =====

* Charlie Kravetz joined the Xubuntu Team as the Xubuntu QA Lead. Charlie will head up our QA, bug triage, and image candidate testing efforts.
* Charlie Kravetz accepted the action to send reminders to the mailing list about upcoming test days; improving the test cases on the wiki; and working with the Ubuntu QA team to resolve some minor issues with the QA ISO Tracker website.
* It was agreed that having a list of people on the wiki who we know can perform certain tests (ie. amd64) would be a good idea. Charlie Kravetz, by default, accepted this action item.
* Jerome announced a new release of xfce4-screenshooter plugin was upcoming.
* Jim Campbell accepted the action of scheduling a meeting to discuss documentation efforts for Jaunty.
* General consensus was reached on the proposed Jaunty roadmap. Cody Somerville accepted the action of sending out an e-mail detailing the roadmap to the mailing list. 
* A meeting schedule heuristic was agreed on and Jim accepted the task of drafting the actual schedule: <pre>
<cody-somerville> I propose an official meeting monthly
<cody-somerville> but I encourage sub-teams to get together as often as they'd like
<cody-somerville> and I definitely encourage spontaneous meetings in #xubuntu-devel when ever people fancy :)
-------------------
<j1mc> We'll move them to Sundays and see how things work.  I'll try to avoid major holiday weekends.
</pre>
* Folks recapped their experiences at UDS <pre>
<cody-somerville> Unfortunately I didn't get to participate in the all the great sessions as much as I would have liked on a count of being sick most of UDS, a close friend dying while I was down in San Francisco :(, and being busy with OEM Services stuff. However, from the sessions I did participate in and the time I was able to spend with the folks from the Xubuntu community, I'd say overall it was a very productive get together.
<cody-somerville> We discussed a number of important issues, built friendships, got a better understanding for how each other work (specifically with regards to Xfce4, thanks to Jannis for making the long trip), and fleshed out some ideas for Jaunty
<cody-somerville> Among our accomplishments at UDS, we: fleshed out a first draft roadmap for Jaunty, discussed artwork for Jaunty
<cody-somerville> discussed how to grow the Xubuntu community, and plans for xfce 4.6 in Jaunty
<cody-somerville> The jist of our discussions are documented in gobby documents at gobby.ubuntu.com
<cody-somerville> I'm hoping to turn them into specs (or get people to volunteer to turn them into specs)
-------------------
<knome> I think it was really great to meet the guys at UDS and we definitely were productive. Also it was nice to get in touch with the Ubuntu community in general to make some connections with other artists and teams which might be able to help us.
<knome> Even if Cody wasn't available all times, we got work done and things going forward - and fast.
-------------------
<JPohlmann> So, first of all it was great meeting (almost) everybody and being able to discuss face-to-face. I think after the docs session, we have a rough idea in mind on how this collaboration could work at least. I'm really hoping that we can form a joint team for that.
<JPohlmann> One thing that clearly needs more discussion is *how* we want the documentation to be written and with which technologies.
<JPohlmann> We also discussed the main complaints in Xubuntu and how to solve them for jaunty, like disappearing panels, non-fd.o-compliant menu, samba/network browsing in Thunar etc.
<JPohlmann> I think NCommander started to backport Xfce 4.4.3 to intrepid I think.
<JPohlmann> And the idea to port the user switcher applet to the xfce panel came up. Not sure who's going to work on that though ;)
<JPohlmann> I guess that's it.
-------------------
NCommander was unavailable </pre>
