{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 13 Nov at 11:00 &mdash; 12:03 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-11-13-11.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 11:08.

** slickymaster started the calls for "translations important for xubuntu"
** ''ACTION:'' elfy and knome to complete the QA processes change

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 11:17.

** Vivid should no longer have pink highlights except for the slideshow
** QA waiting on main -release team to start scheduling cycle
** some image testing happening
** some package testing happening
** package testing finding odd issues with testcases - bug's being reported/dealt with
** slickymaster updated Debian screenshots for Xfce/important packages~
** Development is picking up on light-locker, new dev release expected soonish
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to improve widget naming in Catfish to aid autopilot

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 11:26.

** Ubuntu Online Summit (UOS) started yesterday, continues through tomorrow

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 11:30.

** ''ACTION:'' -team to further discuss potential removal of Settings Manager from Whisker Menu
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to mail list regarding application testing in a more exploratory system

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 12:01.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to improve widget naming in Catfish to aid autopilot
* elfy
** elfy and knome to complete the QA processes change
** elfy to mail list regarding application testing in a more exploratory system
* knome
** elfy and knome to complete the QA processes change
** knome to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* ''DONE:'' slickymaster to start a series of run calls for "translations important for xubuntu" list defined in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Processes#Package_translations
* ''DONE:'' mail the -devel list to garner comment on pad
* ''DONE:'' mail -devel re where we support testers

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (84)
* elfy (56)
* slickymasterWork (18)
* meetingology (10)
* dkessel (5)
* Unit193 (3)
* qwebirc88404 (2)
* knome (1)
* ObrienDave (1)
