{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 28 May at 20:00 &mdash; 20:45 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-05-28-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 20:02.

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 20:05.

** xubuntu-qa - nothing done, still trying to plan wily cycle
** pleia2 updated docs.xubuntu.org for 15.04
** pleia2 has draft for latest Xubuntu At... post ready for review
** slickymaster Updated the documentation to showcase the replacement of Abiword and Gnumeric by LibreOffice Writer and Calc, respectively, and the the drop of Gimp

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 20:09.

* '''Rebooting the FAQ articles (mailing list discussion)''' (20:09)
** ''IDEA:'' could also ask people via social media what they think should be included in a FAQ  (Unit193, 20:17)
* '''Package testing''' (20:17)
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-dev to liase with -qa when specific package testing required
* '''Milestones to take part in''' (20:29)
** ''Agreed:'' Participate with the ones Ubuntu does, starting at B1.
* '''QA Incentive''' (20:39)
** an interesting experiment, but discontinued

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 20:44.

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* Unit193 (61)
* elfy (55)
* pleia2 (27)
* slickymaster (21)
* PaulW2U (5)
* meetingology (5)
* knome (3)
* dkessel (3)
* micahg (2)
* astraljava (1)
* ochosi (0)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <Unit193> #startmeeting Xubuntu community meeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu May 28 20:00:22 2015 UTC.  The chair is Unit193. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 20:00 <Unit193> #chair ochosi knome

 20:00 <meetingology> Current chairs: Unit193 knome ochosi

 20:00 <Unit193> Howdy and welcome to the Xubuntu community meeting.  Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 20:00 <Unit193> Anyone here for the tacos?

 20:01 * dkessel 

 20:01 <slickymaster> I haven't dinner yet Unit193

 20:01 <elfy> no thanks

 20:01 <slickymaster> hey guys

 20:01 <elfy> really must sort out a CTCP sod off message

 20:02 <Unit193> elfy: Just means /me got messed up. :D

 20:02 <Unit193> #topic Open action items

 20:02 <Unit193> elfy to mail -dev list re Milestone participation during Wily cycle

 20:02 <Unit193> That was done, I saw it.

 20:02 <slickymaster> yeaps

 20:02 <slickymaster> aw that too

 20:02 <slickymaster> +s

 20:02 <Unit193> elfy: Anything to note here?

 20:03 <elfy> nope - apparently I can do whatever I want there

 20:03 <Unit193> Pretty much.

 20:03 <slickymaster> card blanc for elfy

 20:03 <Unit193> pleia2 to email list re: QA and incentives

 20:03 <pleia2> o/

 20:03 <Unit193> I saw that, there was a lot of them after I got back.

 20:03 <elfy> that makes it easy - we'll follow ~Ubuntu's plan ...

 20:03 <Unit193> pleia2: Welcome!

 20:04 <elfy> hi pleia2

 20:04 <Unit193> pleia2: Care to say anything here or just move on?

 20:04 <slickymaster> evening pleia2

 20:04 <pleia2> I don't know that we have any end result from that thread

 20:04 <Unit193> Sure,that's fine as well.

 20:04 <pleia2> though I will say that the actual process of sending out stickers was no burden

 20:04 <slickymaster> and thanks for sorting out that dead link in docs.xubuntu.org

 20:04 <pleia2> just didn't seem like a valuable enterprise

 20:05 <Unit193> Alright.

 20:05 <Unit193> #topic Team updates

 20:05 <dkessel> oh yeah, good job on updating the docs site!

 20:05 <Unit193> Everyone have at it?

 20:05 <elfy> #info xubuntu-qa - nothing done, still trying to plan wily cycle

 20:06 <pleia2> #info pleia2 updated docs.xubuntu.org for 15.04

 20:06 <pleia2> #info pleia2 has draft for latest Xubuntu At... post ready for review

 20:07 <slickymaster> #info slickymaster Updated the documentation to showcase the replacement of Abiword and Gnumeric by LibreOffice Writer and Calc, respectively, and the the drop of Gimp

 20:09 <Unit193> If there's nothing else?

 20:09 <slickymaster> nothing frm me

 20:09 <slickymaster> * from

 20:09 <pleia2> that's all

 20:09 <elfy> not as #info

 20:09 <Unit193> #topic Discussion items

 20:09 <Unit193> #subtopic Rebooting the FAQ articles (mailing list discussion)

 20:10 <slickymaster> only bluesabre replied to that

 20:10 <Unit193> So there has been some interest in helping, and I believe others did mention that they'd like to see it happen.

 20:10 <Unit193> Right.

 20:10 <elfy> not sure what's going to happen if people don't step up to help

 20:11 <pleia2> I can help with review of the articles, and pitch in if there's anything I've seen from social media that should be included

 20:11 <slickymaster> this would be a perfect case where the community might get involved

 20:12 <slickymaster> s/case/project

 20:12 * Unit193 looks at krytarik, sitting over there in the 'community' section.

 20:12 <elfy> ha ha

 20:12 <pleia2> ah yes, we could also ask people via social media what they think should be included in a FAQ

 20:13 <slickymaster> yes, my thoughts are exactly the same as Unit193?s

 20:13 <Unit193> But so far that leaves bluesabre writing all of them.

 20:13 <pleia2> he likes writing, right? :D

 20:13 <Unit193> Yes!

 20:13 <elfy> pleia2: maybe try and get people involved that way

 20:13 * astraljava can pitch in

 20:13 <pleia2> if he starts a blog post, we can multiplayer it and add some suggestions

 20:13 <slickymaster> and his thourough doing it, pleia2

 20:14 <slickymaster> krytarik, come up, come up, wherever you are

 20:15 <Unit193> So, astraljava and bluesabre, better odds!

 20:16 <Unit193> I think we'll carry that for when he's here at the next meeting, no?

 20:17 <slickymaster> yes, good plan

 20:17 <Unit193> #idea could also ask people via social media what they think should be included in a FAQ

 20:17 <Unit193> (I have no idea if that shows better in minutes.)

 20:17 <Unit193> #subtopic Package testing

 20:17 <elfy> ha

 20:18 <elfy> so - basically we're not going to even sort out tracker this cycle

 20:18 <Unit193> Right, so the mail said, we're not doing them this cycle.

 20:18 <elfy> nor update testcases

 20:18 <Unit193> I guess for that, all we even have to do is poke PaulW2U.

 20:18 <PaulW2U> o/

 20:19 <elfy> I'll assume that bluesabre and cohorts will liase when necessary for that

 20:19 <Unit193> Heya, PaulW2U.

 20:19 <elfy> #action xubuntu-dev to liase with -qa when specific package testing required

 20:19 * meetingology xubuntu-dev to liase with -qa when specific package testing required

 20:19 <Unit193> Right, I'll need a release team member for stuff too.

 20:19 <elfy> hi PaulW2U

 20:19 <PaulW2U> hi all

 20:19 <Unit193> elfy: Anything else, or carry on to the next?

 20:19 <elfy> hang on

 20:20 <slickymaster> hi PaulW2U

 20:20 <elfy> discussion started with PaulW2U and saqman on m/l about testing (which is more or less the same thing) we can do that now or at the end

 20:21 <elfy> in which case we can move on

 20:21 <Unit193> Now'll do.

 20:21 <elfy> okey doke

 20:22 <elfy> so - we're looking at the best way to disseminate info to testers here - currently trello board for them is my preference

 20:22 <elfy> PaulW2U: you got any comments for the meeting?

 20:22 <PaulW2U> no really but it testers need focus

 20:23 <Unit193> FWIW, I'm keeping on top of those, thanks to SwissBot announcing every time something happens there.

 20:23 <elfy> (I've also offered to run a qa meet if there'senough people -maybe social media that offer pleia2 ? )

 20:23 <PaulW2U> and items to test need to be easily found and the lists kept updated

 20:23 <pleia2> elfy: yes sir

 20:23 <elfy> pleia2: :)

 20:24 <elfy> PaulW2U: ack

 20:24 <PaulW2U> trello board looks good

 20:24 * dkessel also likes trello

 20:25 <elfy> for those who've not looked - there's a Tester Notes board https://trello.com/b/IV66JCHl/xubuntu-qa

 20:25 <elfy> not sure there's much else to mention on that at this moment

 20:29 <elfy> Unit193: the meeting length is kind of based on the chair not looking out of the window :p

 20:29 <Unit193> :3

 20:29 <Unit193> #subtopic Milestones to take part in

 20:29 <Unit193> All the ones Ubuntu does is what I just read

 20:29 <elfy> heh

 20:29 <elfy> I'm still happy with

 20:30 <pleia2> wfm

 20:30 <Unit193> Another idea was when/if we had something big landing.

 20:30 <elfy> really>

 20:30 <elfy> didn't see that on my pointless mail to the list

 20:30 <Unit193> elfy: Side note, idea, etc.  But I don't think of anything big.

 20:31 <Unit193> 4.12 hit last cycle, so that's it pretty much.

 20:31 <elfy> frankly I think the best plan is start at Beta1 unless something turns up and we want to start earlier

 20:31 <pleia2> it doesn't need to be a milestone, right? just a stronger call for testing on the specific bit

 20:31 <elfy> pleia2: yea for sure

 20:31 <Unit193> I maaay have misremembered, pleia2.

 20:31 <Unit193> That sounds closer.

 20:31 <pleia2> elfy does a great job calling those to our attention, so it's easy enough for me to social media them (sometimes with or without prodding :))

 20:31 <elfy> pleia2: the only issue being we can't stop dailies churning simply

 20:32 <elfy> pleia2: works best when I LP mail for that still ?

 20:32 <pleia2> elfy: yeah

 20:32 <elfy> ok

 20:32 <pleia2> that gets my attention, then I link to the -dev mail

 20:32 <elfy> right

 20:33 <Unit193> #agreed Participate with the ones Ubuntu does, starting at B1.

 20:33 <elfy> bluesabre and I have quickly discussed both packages and images btw - it's not just me :)

 20:33 <micahg> well, LO stuff should probably be tested

 20:34 <Unit193> micahg: Yeah, there's a couple things to be fixed yet in x.d.s

 20:34 <elfy> micahg: yea - probably

 20:34 <elfy> I need to see what Ubuntu do with LO - there is a test for it - but I don'tthink much occurs

 20:34 <knome> hai

 20:34 <elfy> hi knome

 20:34 <slickymaster> knome o/

 20:35 <Unit193> http://paste.openstack.org/show/zZTHqewdJcagM769YkZJ for a quick look, micahg.

 20:35 <pleia2> if LO is the only package test to point people at, maybe we can succeed in getting some to do it ;)

 20:36 <elfy> pleia2: if only it was that simple - when I looked it was really old and would need checking over

 20:36 <pleia2> figures

 20:36 <Unit193> Ubuntu doesn't take better care of that one?

 20:36 <elfy> Unit193: they don't package test anymore

 20:36 <pleia2> ah

 20:36 <pleia2> nevermind then

 20:37 <pleia2> would be easy if someone else was maintaining it, but if not..

 20:37 <knome> manually, non-exploratorily, that is...

 20:37 <elfy> micahg: the other side of that coin is that we had tests for gnumeric/abiword that people didn't test and we still got bugs reported

 20:37 <micahg> ok

 20:38 <elfy> but basically - if people need something tested - ask and it shall be promoted

 20:38 <Unit193> Alrighty then, if there's nothing else?

 20:39 <elfy> I'm good

 20:39 <Unit193> #subtopic QA Incentive

 20:39 <slickymaster> nothing on this end

 20:40 <Unit193> Again, from the mail it seems like a nice idea, but not really as much help.

 20:41 <elfy> I think I saw a few new names show up - but no way to know from where - they could well just be normal new

 20:41 <elfy> and it all took me hours because tracker

 20:41 <pleia2> if we do see a new contributor who starts doing a long, we can just randomly offer to send them stickers

 20:41 <pleia2> but a formal program doesn't work and was a bit silly

 20:41 <pleia2> s/a long/a lot

 20:41 <elfy> I'd not say it was silly - just something we tried

 20:42 <Unit193> So, #info discontinued ?

 20:42 <elfy> Unit193: yep

 20:42 <pleia2> elfy: yeah, an interesting experiment :)

 20:43 <Unit193> #info an interesting experiment, but discontinued

 20:43 <Unit193> Any other discussions?

 20:44 <elfy> blueprints? or wait till ochosi is about?

 20:44 <Unit193> Likely wait for him.

 20:44 <Unit193> #topic Announcements

 20:44 <pleia2> I updated a blueprint today \o/

 20:44 <Unit193> I looked at them!

 20:44 <elfy> \o/

 20:45 <knome> i did nothing today!

 20:45 <elfy> still working on qa one

 20:45 <elfy> knome: \o/

 20:45 <Unit193> I see nothing coming up.

 20:45 <Unit193> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
