{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 22 Jun at 10:00 &mdash; 10:42 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-06-22-10.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 10:05.

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 10:08.

** feh added to live session to draw the installer desktop, still waiting on branch merge for ubiquity https://code.launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/ubiquity/lp1437180_feh
** work started on next version of Catfish (more UI goodies, plugin manager)
** xfce4-pulseaudio-plugin has been added to pkg-xfce, and will make it to debian sometime soonish
** The libreoffice icon-set is closing in on its first release, we'll then try to get it into ubuntu as a separate package
** test libreofice-style-elementary at https://launchpad.net/~shimmerproject/+archive/ubuntu/daily
** xfpm 1.5.2 in xubuntu-staging ppa, "launch xfpm" bug fixed
** knome added some nice graphics to http://xubuntu.org/
** slickymaster will start the calls for package translations this week, in the m/l

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 10:16.

** The first milestone we're participating in this cycle is Beta 1 (August 27)
** While it has been announced already, let me formally repeat it here: elfy has retired from his QA team lead position and from the Xubuntu team as a whole.
** current testing status and information https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2015-June/010798.html
** some (maybe) flavors will be doing the Alpha 1 milestone this week, just as a heads up

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:21.

* '''Core as an image''' (10:21)
** ''LINK:'' http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2015/05/29/%23ubuntu-devel.html#t20:39 
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-dev to review requirements for xubuntu-core iso, investigating patches to livecd-rootfs, ubuntu-cdimage and debian-cd
* '''Status and plans for the QA subteam''' (10:28)
** ''ACTION:'' dkessel to investigate automated image testing
** xubuntu-dev to help maintain xubuntu-qa in the meantime

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 10:42.

** knome to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* dkessel
** dkessel to investigate automated image testing
* xubuntu-dev
** xubuntu-dev to review requirements for xubuntu-core iso, investigating patches to livecd-rootfs, ubuntu-cdimage and debian-cd

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (96)
* ochosi (52)
* slickymasterWork (18)
* dkessel (11)
* meetingology (11)
* qwebirc855185 (3)
* Noskcaj (2)
* ubottu (1)
* Unit193 (1)
* xubuntu-dev (0)
