{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''OBJECTIVE:''' Grow the Xubuntu community.

=== Brainstorm ===

* Improving the content on the "Get Involved" pages.
** Ensure that there is contact information.
** Minimize the amount of information presented to the user at once. 
** Point users at low hanging fruit.
** We want users to feel like they're apart of the team; link to 5-a-day.
** Improve more comprehensive documentation on the wiki.

* Get more contributors blogging & talking about Xubuntu
** Get current contributors to apply for Ubuntu membership so that their blog posts are syndicated to planet.ubuntu.com
** Post/blog about the monthly team report.
** Get people contributing to the team reports; see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports
** Encourage current contributors to help out more on the #xubuntu support channel.
** Start an official Xubuntu blog?
** Micro-blogging
** Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter

* Create teamwork opportunities
** 5-a-day
** User-created content on the CD (ala Ubuntu Free Culture Showcase)
** "Community Help Contact"??? (could tie in with channel opping)
** Bug & Package Jams
   
* Improve the wiki
** Encourage teams to fix up their team pages

* Regular IRC & Skype Meetings
* Social networking groups & communities (Facebook, last.fm, linkedIn, etc.)
* Participating in Ubuntu-wide events like OpenWeek.
* Create resources for loco teams (flyers, artwork, etc.)
* Encourage users to get involved in LoCo Teams.
* Default settings for IRC and Pidgin could point to #xubuntu
* Brainstorm?? How can we better take advantage of it?
