{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 04 Dec at 12:00 &mdash; 12:49 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-12-04-12.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 12:02.

** ''ACTION:'' : knome to send a mail about volunteers to run the wallpaper contest #
** : making steady progress on the wallpaper submission/voting tool, will be putting it up on github this weekend for others to pitch in

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 12:06.

** gmusicbrowser removed from seed
** QA ran IRC testing session on sunday - thanks axkwi-dave
** QA will do another session between A2 and B1
** VPS from pleia2 logs > jcastro is going to see if he can find us some vendor he has contacts with to donate something to us, we'll see

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 12:11.

* '''Volunteers for running a 16.04 Community Wallpaper contest?''' (12:11)
** we might also be using the webapp I am working on for this, which should reduce the workload for submitting, validating, and voting on wps
* '''Ubuntu Software Center''' (12:15)
* '''google code-in''' (12:25)
** QA added a couple of tasks for people to test iso and packages
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to look at the xubuntu core issue

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 12:49.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** : knome to send a mail about volunteers to run the wallpaper contest #
* micahg
** micahg to look at the xubuntu core issue

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (101)
* bluesabre (49)
* knome (45)
* micahg_mobile (14)
* meetingology (9)
* micahg (5)
* Spass_ (3)
