{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Status of this Document ===

This document is outdated. please refer to http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/ProposedPackages .

Feel free to edit this list but please bring up controversial issues on xubuntu-devel

== ! BIG FAT WARNING ! ==
Please ''' DO NOT ''' put gnome/kde/openoffice/mono/java apps in here, as we have probably heard about them. This list is about what it makes sense including in a distro which aims to be be lighter weight than current mainstream ones
and not a place to vote for preferred apps. Thank you :)

These are the packages going into xubuntu-desktop for now, and which will form the basis of seeds when Cd production starts. Those which do not go into desktop may still fit on the CD.

=== Of meta package ubuntu-desktop ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Package'''
| '''Site'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/web/firefox|firefox]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://mozilla.com/firefox/|http://mozilla.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/net/bittorrent-gui|bittorrent]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[http://www.bittorrent.com|http://bittorrent.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/breezy/admin/synaptic|synaptic]]</nowiki>
| http://www.nongnu.org/synaptic
|}
** Firefox is way too heavy for a lightweight desktop like Xubuntu is supposed to be... I just released 100 MiB of RAM just by closing it!  We should also include Dillo as an alternative, like other lightweight distros (like DSL or Puppy) do.  And Firefox's memory usage should be limited to 16 MiB or so, with the method described <nowiki>[[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/1327586/posts|here]]</nowiki> -- SantiagoRoza <<DateTime>>
** Firefox isn't so heavy at all, and there isn't a suitable free (as in freedom) alternative I think. Synaptic is way heavier... -- VincentZekred   * Browsers can be <nowiki>[[http://gtk-webcore.sourceforge.net/|osb-browser]]</nowiki>, or <nowiki>[[http://www.muhri.net/skipstone|skipstone]]</nowiki>, or epiphany? all them are more lightweight... firefox is too heavy. 
** Recent updates to Firefox seem to resolve memory leaks - at least many reported this.
** Im using firefox 1.5.0.3 on my DSL distro and on my xbox (dont ask) and it runs really fast, so I dont know why you people complaint about it (xbox only have 64mb RAM)
** I would suggest <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/projects/seamonkey/|SeaMonkey]]</nowiki>, can't find a .deb for it but it is significantly cleaner than Mozilla and fater and lighter than Firefox.  -- Conor <<DateTime>>

=== Decided for xubuntu-desktop ===

REVISE PACKAGE -> <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/misc/xubuntu-desktop|xubuntu-desktop]]</nowiki>

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Package'''
| '''Site'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/x11/xfce4|xfce_core]]</nowiki>
| http://xfce.org
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/x11/xfce4-goodies|xfce4-goodies]]</nowiki>
| http://xfce-goodies.berlios.de
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/x11/rox-filer|rox-filer]]</nowiki>
| http://rox.sourceforge.net
| *
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/x11/thunar|thunar]]</nowiki>
| http://thunar.xfce.org
| No package official, *
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/utils/ivman|ivman]]</nowiki>
| http://ivman.sourceforge.net
| <nowiki>[[http://www.skepticats.com/linlog/entries/2005/09/05_2143/|Auto-Run]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/gnome/graveman|graveman]]</nowiki>
| http://graveman.tuxfamily.org
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/gnome/abiword|abiword]]</nowiki>
| http://abisource.com
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/mail/sylpheed-claws|sylpheed-claws]]</nowiki>
| http://claws.sylpheed.org
| Why not the -gtk2 version?
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/x11/idesk|idesk]]</nowiki>
| http://idesk.sourceforge.net
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://vljubovic.members.epn.ba/ubuntu.html|qingy]]</nowiki>
| http://qingy.sourceforge.net
| No package official
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/dapper/sound/xfmedia|xfmedia]]</nowiki>
| http://spuriousinterrupt.org/projects/xfmedia
| **
|}

** * If xfce 4.2.x is file-rox. Else xfce 4.4.x is thunar
** ** <nowiki>[[http://www.xmms.org|xmms]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://bmpx.beep-media-player.org|beep-media-player]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xmms2.xmms.se|xmms2]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://spuriousinterrupt.org/projects/xfmedia/|xfmedia]]</nowiki> is very basic) -- // Don't forget <nowiki>[[http://audacious-media-player.org/Main_Page|audacious]]</nowiki> (fork of beep media player)!

* Other option is TDE window manager. TDE (Techisa Desktop Environment) is a lightweight alternative desktop environment developed using Qt. The project's goal is to provide users with a comfortable environment using as few resources as possible. This WM is really very customizable. Oficial homepage:   http://tde.codigolivre.org.br (only brazilian portuguese). Other homepage:     http://freshmeat.net/projects/tde

=== Proposed, may go into what else will be on the CD ===
==== uncategorized ====
** <nowiki>[[http://xarchive.sourceforge.net/|Xarchive]]</nowiki> 
** Gimp
** Inkscape
** mtpaint
** galculator
** gnumeric (can be built without gnome deps, it's just not done that way in debian)
** Powerpoint capable presentation editor
**** <nowiki>[[http://www.nongnu.org/criawips/|criawips]]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki>[[http://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/s5/|S5]]</nowiki>
** text/code editor which highlights code 
**** SciTE - easy extensibility and even easier debugging facilities
**** Gvim - advanced text editor, contains Evim - which is a standard text editor (Ctrl-C to copy, ...)
** xchm - depends on wxgtk2.6!
** GIMV (''is this needed?  we have gqview'')
** <nowiki>[[http://www.emma-soft.com/projects/epdfview/|ePDFView]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://xfc.xfce.org/download.xhtml|Xfce Foundation Classes (Xfc)]]</nowiki>
** Some photograph album manager

==== internet related ====
** I miss Gaim.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/breezy/net/xchat|xchat]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/breezy/net/xchat-gnome|xchat-gnome]]</nowiki>
** bittornado-gui or new official bittorrent client at bittorrent.com (already a .deb made at that location)
** <nowiki>[[http://transmission.m0k.org/|Transmission]]</nowiki>: GTK+2 BitTorrent client. Very lightweight, only early days for the project, but worth a look?   
** I have created a poorly packaged .deb for Transmission available <nowiki>[[http://d.turboupload.com/d/641962/transmission_0.6-svn-r257-2006-05-25-1_i386.deb.html|here]]</nowiki>. Read the description on the download page. -- Conor <<DateTime>> 
** Firestarter
** gFTP
** thunderbird (''That's duplicate sylpheed usage and it's FAT.'') -sylpheed only does plain text email - and a good thing too!
** Why not forget all torrent, amule etc... P2P packgages and include them all in one? how about Mldonkey http://mldonkey.berlios.de/ with an GUI like Sancho? http://sancho-gui.sourceforge.net/ //-- Sancho is goddamn hard to set up (since it is a frontend to configure mldonkey varnames), and written in Java. Still aMule and a torrent client and maybe linuxdcpp would all be cool as one should not forget about people who came from Windoze. Sancho comes in a compiled version for ROXX, and for GTK so it wouldn`t be a problem configurin a JVM, in the other hand most users would use it AS IS, so are not going to configure it so much, and the one who does it, knows what is he doing. 

==== audio/video ====
** <nowiki>[[http://www.videolan.org|vlc]]</nowiki> - Or mplayer and its wonderful mozilla plugin ;)
** <nowiki>[[http://listengnome.free.fr/|Listen]]</nowiki> - gtk based and awesome :)  amarok competitor even though it's immature
** Quodlibet - If you're going to have a default media player it should a good one :) (it's developed by a Debian developer)
** <nowiki>[[http://fondriest.frederic.free.fr/realisations/lamip/dev_news.html|LAMIP]]</nowiki> is also a good audio player, but in early development stage yet (I tested it in May and found it quite usable, though).
** <nowiki>[[http://squentin.free.fr/gmusicbrowser/gmusicbrowser.html|gmusicbrowser]]</nowiki> is a jukebox for large collections of MP3 and Ogg files. It is fast, even with tens of thousands of songs, has easy access to related songs (same artist/album/title),
** CD-ripper of some sort, please? Ripping to ogg by default, of course. 
**** RipperX -- Not pretty, but not Gnome dependent. http://ripperx.sourceforge.net/screenshots.html
** xmms is a great and light audio player.

==== system ====
** gParted
** <nowiki>[[http://netswitch.tuxfamily.org|gswitch]]</nowiki>: a network config GUI (GTK+). The package is on REVU.
** ndiswrapper, ndisgtk (hopefully doesn't have any gnome dependencies)
** Update-manager but for XFCE4 based on GNOME's 
** Some sort of a Beagle-like search box, integrated with the desktop.
** possibility to change keyboard (very important!!) 
**** <nowiki>[[http://fbxkb.sourceforge.net|fbxkb]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/xxkb|xxkb]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://packages.debian.org/unstable/x11/xkeysw.html|xkeysw]]</nowiki>
**** There is an Xfce panel plugin; all the distro mantainers have to do is place the correct keymaps in the xkb file so that the user can choose them
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/breezy/gnome/gcursor|gcursor]]</nowiki> like app that doesn't have gnome depends - AFAIK Xfce 4.4 will have a mouse cursor changer GUI - it does, but doesn't provide for installing new cursor themes through the gui
** <nowiki>[[http://slim.berlios.de|slim]]</nowiki>
==== games ====
** Card games (essential for the less savvy spouses); i propose [www.pysol.org pysol] <-- PLEASE NO GAMES!  OR MAKE AN OPTIONAL XFCE4 GAMES META-PACKAGE <-- why no games? people with older machines aren't supposed to have fun?
** Pingus (Can't do without a game, can't we?)
==== console based ====
** scrot - for screenshots - console program IIRC - is this necessary?
** irssi
