{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 05 Jun at 12:30 &mdash; 13:29 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-06-05-12.30.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 12:32.

** ''DONE:'' xubuntu-dev to liase with -qa when specific package testing required

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 12:34.

** knome has been working on website content
** milestone image testing dealt with

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 12:36.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 12:38.

* '''Rebooting the FAQ articles''' (12:38)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to follow-up on the FAQ reboot on ML
* '''Discuss blueprints and plans for 15.10''' (12:42)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to follow up with team leads re blueprints as needed
* '''Core as image''' (12:44)
* '''Discuss Xubuntu's position on CSD (client side decorations)''' (12:58)

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 13:29.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to follow-up on the FAQ reboot on ML
* ochosi
** ochosi to follow up with team leads re blueprints as needed

=== Done items ===

* xubuntu-dev to liase with -qa when specific package testing required

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (93)
* elfy (79)
* knome (71)
* meetingology (6)
* dkessel (5)
