{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:04.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:13.

* '''Wallpaper contest results''' (22:13)
** We have 6 winning wallpapers from 6 different contestants!
** We're still working with the contestants, but at least 5 of the winning submissions will be included in 4k resolution (woot!)
** Blog will be updated soon with winners' names and winning submissions :)
** A huge thank you everybody for submitting! We had a total of 162 submissions compared to less than 100 last time. We have an awesome (and I hope a growing) community!
* '''Release Schedule''' (22:22)
** Bionic Final Beta should be landing soon, today/tomorrow
** Translations are due next week
** Final Freeze is the 23rd
** Final Release is the 26th
** Release Candidate on the 19th

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:31.

* '''Icon changes after UIF (ochosi)''' (22:31)
** ''LINK:'' http://i.imgur.com/ppHvVhK.png 
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre will push beaaf3f6f47fb1e80fb7821fe69b3513a707cfbe and 28120d05e011ec89412d33d7dc5897d7f6bcf8ee from elementary-xfce to xubuntu-artwork as bugfix
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi and ali1234 will try to script the gradient swap-out for most icons that need updating
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi will manually update whatever icons are left over from the script approach
** ''ACTION:'' knome will file the UIFe paperwork once the branch is ready
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre will again be doing the uploading honours

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:51.

* '''18.04 Community Wallpaper Contest Winners''' (22:51)
** ''LINK:'' https://xubuntu.org/news/18-04-community-wallpaper-contest-winners/ 

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 22:55.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to schedule the next meeting
