{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by ochosi at 18:01:13 UTC. Meeting ended at 18:49:44 UTC. The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2012/xubuntu-devel.2012-01-09-18.01.log.html.

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Team updates ====
* Packaging and Development
** mr_pouit has applied some long-standing patches from bugzilla.xfce.org to xfdesktop for precise  (ochosi, 18:04:56)
** since it isn't maintained upstream at the moment (devs are waiting for the desktop to become a thunar-extension) it makes sense to patch it for xubuntu downstream  (ochosi, 18:05:32)
** among the patches is e.g. (rudimentary) thumbnail-support for the desktop  (ochosi, 18:06:04)
* Bug Triage, Testing and Documentation
** testing is ongoing, charlie-tca tests the images daily. it would be nice to have more people involved in that  (ochosi, 18:12:31)
** ''LINK:'' Results are always posted at  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/204/builds  (ochosi, 18:13:00)
** maybe-ubiquity will land on images tomorrow, testers note: please check if everything looks as should  (knome, 18:13:30)
** Xfce have launched new documentation in a wiki (docs.xfce.org)  (ochosi, 18:16:35)
** From Xfce 4.10 onwards the help-button will point there, which will also mean no docs for people who are offline  (ochosi, 18:17:07)
** ''LINK:'' the docs are already accessible at http://docs.xfce.org/  (ochosi, 18:17:52)
** it would be nice if people from Xubuntu could also contribute  (ochosi, 18:18:08)
* Marketing, Artwork and Website
** we're going to hold off on completing every single content update before going live  (pleia2, 18:18:44)
** there are still some struture things knome is working through, once those are done we should be in a position to launch the new wordpress site  (pleia2, 18:19:11)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to review outstanding structure issues and follow-up with knome  (pleia2, 18:23:32)
** ochosi plans to do a sprint to port finish porting Bluebird to gtk3 in early february  (ochosi, 18:24:35)
* General updates
** Xubuntu LTS plan forwarded to Technical Board  (knome, 18:27:39)

==== Announcements ====
* maybe-ubiquity has landed in Precise Pangolin images, thanks to cjwatson. Testers: Please test all the images ASAP and see if everything looks okay.  (knome, 18:29:31)

==== Other business ====
* Review blueprints that need community approval  (knome, 18:29:49)
** New wallpaper: Some drafts still at http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/precise_wall/, any feedback appreciated  (knome, 18:30:26)
** Ubiquity "application sets": https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Precise/UbiquityApplicationSets has the spec  (knome, 18:34:32)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to keep on investigating stuff under constant evaluation - if it proves to be a bit too much work, vote again  (knome, 18:45:14)
** Default shortcut keys: Sysi not available, will carry on one more time :)  (knome, 18:45:40)
* Discussion and guidance on other blueprints  (knome, 18:45:55)
* Open action items from previous meetings  (knome, 18:47:46)
** ''ACTION:'' GridGube to gather a list of problems with QA tracker and get back to knome/QA tracker responsibles  (knome, 18:48:03)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise as soon as possible  (knome, 18:48:10)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to look at the thunderbird button issue  (knome, 18:48:19)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu  (knome, 18:48:26)

=== Action items, by person ===

* GridCube
** GridGube to gather a list of problems with QA tracker and get back to knome/QA tracker responsibles
* knome
** knome to keep on investigating stuff under constant evaluation - if it proves to be a bit too much work, vote again
* micahg
** micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise as soon as possible
** micahg to look at the thunderbird button issue
* mr_pouit
** micahg or mr_pouit to confirm xfce package versions in precise as soon as possible
* ochosi
** ochosi to investigate some cherry-picking from xfce upstream to ubuntu
* pleia2
** pleia2 to review outstanding structure issues and follow-up with knome

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (55)
* ochosi (53)
* meetingology (27)
* pleia2 (8)
* micahg (6)
* mr_pouit (4)
* Unit193 (4)
* madnick (2)
