{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2011-03-17 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* ask knome to do some drafts with a grey background and a black background - carried forward
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward/after natty releases

=== Team updates ===

==== Packaging & Development ====

* uploaded fixes for xubuntu-default-settings and xubuntu-artwork.
* Uploaded fixes to correctly display translated desktop file names in Thunar and Xfdesktop4.
* Some bugfix in garcon as well.
* Included more mimetypes in xfburn.desktop.

==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* Images were broken all week, the alternate image installs great.

==== Website & Marketing ====

* Still waiting on canonical to set up wordpress.
* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.

==== Artwork ====

I want to thank every artist for their work and I apologize for the license issues not being verified before the end of the contest period. <<BR>>
The wallpapers are at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Natty.
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5247055287/in/pool-uawt-7
** licensed cc-by-sa, unfortunately, it contains images licensed cc-by-nc-sa
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-uawt-7#/photos/emunkki/5515540418/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** Default wallpaper for Xubuntu Natty Narwhal
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/pr09studio/5277600138/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** copyrighted by the author, "all rights reserved"
* A vote was held to decide which of the remaining would be available on the CD, results were a tie (4/4). Project Lead determined that the image by leogg would be the winner.
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/leogg/5224255554/in/pool-1546142@N20/
** http://www.flickr.com/photos/tylana/5343925114/in/pool-1546142@N20/

=== Announcements ===

* Anyone wants to go to UDS-O needs to submit their application for sponsorship, please
* BetaFreeze and UserInterfaceFreeze March 24, 23:00 UTC

=== Any Other Business ===

* Next meeting is in one week, March 24, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-03-17 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* The Global Jam is coming up in a couple weeks https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
** We need to insure the Xubuntu testing pages are updated for a loco to use during this event.

=== Action items for the 2011-3-17 meeting ===

* Charlie as Project Lead will draw up a proposal to be added the the Xubuntu Strategy Document for choosing a new Project Lead by community vote
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument
* Launchpad bug 720652 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "[Xubuntu] maybe-ubiquity/new greeter support" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/720652
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

== 2011-03-17 Meeting Log ==

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** knome
** mr_pouit
** pleia2
** Sysi
** beardygnome
** micahg
** drc

http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20110317_1402.html
