{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for September 2008'''

===== Artwork =====

* Jmak is waiting for usplash to be updated.
* Jmak is working on finalizing icon and gtk theme details.

===== Community =====

* Cody (cody-somerville) will be sending an updated version of Strategy Document to CC by end of month for final reading.

===== Documentation =====

* Nothing to report.

===== Marketing =====

* Pasi Lallinaho appointed as Xubuntu Marketing Lead.
* Pasi has begun work on redesigning the Xubuntu website.
* Pasi developed a countdown banner for Xubuntu Intrepid release, see [http://emonk.fi/open/xubuntu/xubuntu-countdown-draft-2.png draft]
* Vincent (vinnl) appointed as Xubuntu Website Lead.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Alpha 5 and 6 released.
* Updated xubuntu-artwork-usplash to provide usplash-theme.
* Found bug in germinate that was causing Ubuntu's usplash package to be pulled in and overwrite ours.
* Fixed bug where xscreensaver was being pulled in.
* Several packages updated (such as thunar-thumbnails).
* Jannis, Michael, and Cody have begun looking at getting Thunar-Samba in Intrepid.
* Michael (NCommander) has been appointed as the Xubuntu Debian Liaison.
* Jannis (JPohlmann) has been appointed as the Xubuntu Xfce Liaison.
* NCommander packaged xfce 4.6 alpha "pinkie" into Xubuntu Developer PPA.
* Charlie Kravetz is working on organizing a hug day that brings upstream developers, Ubuntu developers, Xubuntu developers, and xubuntu community contributors, testers, and users together.
* Seeded "Listen" to see if people like that better than Audacious; needs work if we're going to ship it.
