{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 06 Mar at 18:59 &mdash; 19:22 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-03-06-18.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Open action items from previous meeting" started at 19:00.

** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** ''ACTION:'' lderan to create the individual merge proposals for the basic Xubuntu tests
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:03.

** knome worked on the flyer, see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing/Projects/Flyers for progress
** got a few more translations of the startubuntu flyer http://xubuntu.org/marketingresources/
** ''LINK:'' http://spreadubuntu.org/fi/material/poster/startubuntu-xubuntu-juliste-a4 

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:07.

** UI freeze in a week, Documentation string freeze in two

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 19:08.

* '''Start the discussion on the technical review for the Strategy Document''' (19:08)
* '''12.04 > 14.04 upgrades, removing xscreensaver''' (19:08)
* '''Discuss adding the workspace switcher applet to our new panel layout (Rationale)''' (19:09)
** 1) we will disable the change-workspace-on-scroll by default
** 2) we will make the logout button stand out more in whiskermnu, eg. change it to a "power on/off" icon

==== Other items ====
The discussion about "Other items" started at 19:12.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to work on the desktop of the week -stuff

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
* knome
** knome to work on the desktop of the week -stuff
* lderan
** lderan to create the individual merge proposals for the basic Xubuntu tests
* micahg
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
* Noskcaj
** Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing
* pleia2
** pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (71)
* GridCube (16)
* meetingology (10)
* slickymaster (6)
* pleia2 (6)
* Noskcaj (2)
* ali1234 (1)
* brainwash (1)
* lderan (0)
* micahg (0)
