{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 23 Sep at 20:00 &mdash; 20:42 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-09-23-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 20:01.

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 20:04.

** marketing team created a Donations page for folks who want to know how to finacially support Xubuntu http://xubuntu.org/donations/
** ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu was updated for 14.10
** recent uploads: xubuntu-artwork, xubuntu-default-settings, xubuntu-docs, catfish, menulibre, light-locker-settings
** Core Testing - that's worked out nicely and we've had more reports for that than beta 1
** 14.10 installations on virtual machines are still broken, QA team looks into it
** Elfy will be cross
** ''ACTION:'' Team to test beta regardless of lightdm issue - it can be booted to desktop afterwards - workaround is on the mailing list
** lightdm bug only appears to be affecting vm's
** b2 tests - hardware entire and auto-resize are priority if possible

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 20:23.

* '''QA Incentives''' (20:24)
** http://pad.ubuntu.com/QAIncentive

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 20:35.

** Beta 2 on the 25th
** skellat remains on AskUbuntu patrol and even brought up an issue there relative to our flavor: http://meta.askubuntu.com/questions/11946/tagging-xubuntu-when-ubuntu-is-meant
** All affecting freezes are added to the team calendar at http://xubuntu.org/team-calendar/
** Questions that need answering if people are not busy: http://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/xubuntu
** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to schedule the next meeting.

=== Action items, by person ===

* slickymaster
** slickymaster to schedule the next meeting.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (66)
* elfy (47)
* Unit193 (34)
* ochosi (30)
* bluesabre0 (16)
* pleia2 (12)
* skellat (11)
* slickymaster (9)
* meetingology (8)

=== Full Log ===

 20:00 <Unit193> #startmeeting Xubuntu community meeting

 20:00 <meetingology> Meeting started Tue Sep 23 20:00:35 2014 UTC.  The chair is Unit193. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 20:00 <meetingology> 

 20:00 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 20:00 <Unit193> #chair ochosi knome

 20:00 <Unit193> Howdy and welcome to the Xubuntu community meeting.  Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 20:00 <meetingology> Current chairs: Unit193 knome ochosi

 20:00 <elfy> pfft

 20:00 <pleia2> o/

 20:01 <bluesabre0> o/

 20:01 <slickymaster> o/

 20:01 <knome> o/

 20:01 <ochosi> o/

 20:01 <bluesabre0> connection is shaky, but I'm here

 20:01 <Unit193> Think that's everyone.

 20:01 <Unit193> #topic Open action items

 20:02 <Unit193> So we have: Review artwork for UIF  that done then?

 20:02 <ochosi> yup

 20:02 <knome> yep

 20:02 <Unit193> So, do we #done that?

 20:03 <knome> if you wish, or just not mention it

 20:03 <ochosi> yeah, let's just never speak of this again ;)

 20:03 <Unit193> Then: marketing team to support Xfce's bug bounty program by informing people via website and social media

 20:04 <ochosi> i did see something about that on g+

 20:04 <ochosi> pleia2?

 20:04 <Unit193> I remember seeing something earlier this week on that.

 20:04 <pleia2> oh yes, that's done

 20:04 <pleia2> #done marketing team social mediaed the bounty program

 20:04 <slickymaster> lol

 20:04 <Unit193> Yey!

 20:04 <Unit193> #topic Team updates

 20:05 <Unit193> Free for all.

 20:05 <knome> there was somebody whining about that in twitter

 20:05 <elfy> awesome - we get a new word too :)

 20:05 <knome> the bounty program, not team updates

 20:05 <Unit193> bluesabre0: Recent uploads?

 20:05 <knome> they were concerned that "rich people" just get their feature requests landed and it makes xubuntu less equal..

 20:06 <bluesabre0> recent uploads: xubuntu-artwork, xubuntu-default-settings, xubuntu-docs

 20:06 <Unit193> Heh, that's upstream Xfce, not really Xubuntu feature requests.

 20:06 <knome> Unit193, yes.

 20:06 <Unit193> bluesabre0: #info ?

 20:06 <pleia2> #info marketing team created a Donations page for folks who want to know how to finacially support Xubuntu http://xubuntu.org/donations/

 20:07 <ochosi> knome: really? i guess i should get a twitter account one day...

 20:07 <knome> #info ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu was updated for 14.10

 20:07 <bluesabre0> #info recent uploads: xubuntu-artwork, xubuntu-default-settings, xubuntu-docs, catfish, menulibre, light-locker-settings

 20:07 <slickymaster> pink ftw

 20:07 <Unit193> elfy: Anything from QA?

 20:07 <elfy> yep

 20:07 <ochosi> #info Everything is now pink!

 20:07 <ochosi> #undo

 20:07 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: INFO

 20:07 <ochosi> ;)

 20:08 <elfy> #info Core Testing - that's worked out nicely and we've had more reports for that than beta 1

 20:08 <Unit193> Wow.

 20:08 <ochosi> \o/

 20:08 <ochosi> congrats Unit193 and elfy

 20:08 <knome> #info 14.10 installations on virtual machines are still broken, QA team looks into it

 20:09 <elfy> # Beta 2 testing - currently everyone is having problems with lightdm - possibly going to get some respins

 20:09 <knome> yes, good work!

 20:09 <elfy> BUT

 20:09 <elfy> I do not want that to stop people testing - it's not an excuse for team to not test

 20:09 <elfy> I hope we get better reports from us for this beta

 20:10 <elfy> #info Elfy will be cross

 20:10 <ochosi> :}

 20:10 <bluesabre0> haha

 20:10 <ochosi> well first we need betas that run post-install i guess

 20:11 <elfy> #action Team to test beta regardless of lightdm issue - it can be booted to desktop afterwards - workaround is on the mailing list

 20:11 * meetingology Team to test beta regardless of lightdm issue - it can be booted to desktop afterwards - workaround is on the mailing list

 20:11 <slickymaster> I don't see a reason why post-install shouldn't be runned

 20:11 <Unit193> elfy: You seem to have missed '#info'.

 20:11 <knome> elfy, i've zsynced stuff and scheduled time for tomorrow, so unless something really critical work-related pops up..

 20:11 <bluesabre0> any word from lightdm folks about a possible fix before thursday?

 20:11 <knome> slickymaster, s/runned/ran/

 20:11 <elfy> bluesabre0: I've not asked

 20:11 <slickymaster> yeah

 20:11 <bluesabre0> ok

 20:11 <ochosi> bluesabre0: last time i looked, robert was still asking for logs

 20:11 <elfy> knome: yea - I understand - but we've got till Thursday evening - tomorrow is only Wednesday

 20:11 <knome> bluesabre0, we've been talking about this in #ubuntu-quality, so people know our concerns...

 20:11 <ochosi> which seemingly aren't there

 20:12 <knome> elfy, yes, about thursday i'm not so sure so better do something tomorrow ;)

 20:12 <elfy> ochosi: you can't get lightdm logs at the point of fail

 20:12 <bluesabre0> yeah, no logs are generated

 20:12 <ochosi> yup

 20:12 <ochosi> isn't that what i said? :)

 20:12 <knome> somebody said lightdm wasn't even starting in ubuntu

 20:12 <ochosi> at least we're not the only ones...

 20:12 <elfy> ochosi: you said thaqt when I was typing

 20:12 <elfy> :)

 20:12 <knome> ochosi, repetitio mater studiorum est

 20:13 <elfy> knome: lightdm in vm isn't starting for anyone

 20:13 <ochosi> knome: right, and variatio delectat (i.e. say it in as many ways as possible)

 20:13 <elfy> #info lightdm bug only appears to be affecting vm's

 20:13 <knome> ochosi, and: quod scripsi, scripsi (elfy's reply)

 20:14 <ochosi> knome: hehe, let's continue the latin-battle post-meeting

 20:14 <knome> elfy, i mean if it's not starting, how could it produce logs :D

 20:14 <elfy> oh right

 20:14 <elfy> anyway - all from me for now :)

 20:14 <Unit193> Alright.  That it for team updates?  Seems the discussion iteams were talked about last time, need to rehash still?

 20:14 <knome> unless it was crashing at startup

 20:14 <ochosi> elfy: if i'm not mistaken, jjfrv8 said he also saw it on one of two hw installs

 20:14 <knome> hr hr :|

 20:15 <elfy> oh one more thing from me

 20:15 <elfy> #info b2 tests - hardware entire and auto-resize are priority if possible

 20:16 <knome> i *might* be able to run one

 20:16 <elfy> knome: I don't see any reports from jjfrv8 re fails

 20:17 <knome> elfy, i wasn't the one who said that

 20:17 <elfy> knome: ack

 20:17 <knome> but i saw jjfrv8 saying that

 20:17 <elfy> well it's not reported as such

 20:17 <knome> 16:06  jjfrv8: Not sure if I have a new bug or not.  After 64-bit install, I get a black screen and can't do anything. After power off/on, get a kernel panic screen.

 20:17 * skellat checks in rather late for the meeting

 20:17 <bluesabre0> no extra machines for me atm...

 20:17 <slickymaster> but he didn't report any failures in the tracker

 20:17 <knome> wait, you saw it as well elfy..

 20:17 <knome> aha

 20:17 <elfy> yea saw that

 20:18 <Unit193> Same here, bluesabre0.

 20:18 <elfy> but I'm not going to remember all that people say when I'm not here - I'll be working from the tracker :)

 20:18 <knome> fair engouh

 20:18 <knome> enough too

 20:18 <bluesabre0> :)

 20:18 <ochosi> yeah, i agree, ppl should report their tests

 20:19 <knome> jack usually reports, so maybe that was some kind of mistake

 20:19 <elfy> knome: yep agreed

 20:19 <ochosi> elfy: i don't have an extra computer at the moment, so auto-resize and entire won't be doable for me on hw

 20:20 <elfy> I think if people are seeing lightdm fails in hardware it's really important to note it in the bug

 20:20 <elfy> ochosi: same here - the one I usually use is dead atm

 20:21 <knome> elfy, i guess one more bug to file against the tracker... notifications per product

 20:22 <elfy> not sure I understand - but we could have 5 mins later if you've time

 20:23 <Unit193> Alright, so if there are no objections, I believe we'll move on.

 20:23 <elfy> wfm

 20:23 <Unit193> #topic Discussion items

 20:23 <Unit193> #subtopic Review and discuss default configuration

 20:24 <bluesabre0> I think thats done and over with... unless there are any other complaints?

 20:24 <Unit193> #undo

 20:24 <meetingology> Removing item from minutes: SUBTOPIC

 20:24 <Unit193> #subtopic QA Incentives

 20:24 <knome> yeah, that's fine.

 20:25 <elfy> has anyone anything else to add to that discussion?

 20:25 <Unit193> Agenda had further discussion on that one, so figured might be.

 20:25 <knome> qa incentives?

 20:25 <skellat> Nothing at this point from my end so far

 20:26 <ochosi> elfy: wanna #info the link to the pad again?

 20:26 <elfy> knome: http://pad.ubuntu.com/QAIncentive

 20:26 <elfy> ochosi: :p

 20:26 <knome> i think it's a good idea as long as we clearly decide what we will be offering and make sure we have the resources to get those.

 20:26 <elfy> #info http://pad.ubuntu.com/QAIncentive

 20:26 <ochosi> well line 39 still needs and answer imo

 20:27 <ochosi> just to know how far we would get and how soon we would have to think of new ways to get funding

 20:29 <knome> i'd say 3-4 cycles.

 20:29 <knome> depending how much stickers we can get for free during that period

 20:29 <knome> plus the books

 20:30 <pleia2> stickers and books are pretty much immediately available, t-shirts take longer

 20:30 <knome> yes

 20:30 <skellat> Pursuant to all sorts of US federal regulations, I have to formally stipulate that I am not giving tax advice or tax law counsel with respect to any discussion of financial matters.

 20:30 <skellat> That being said, we do need to ensure that while we do this we do not also create any liabilities for anybody.  It may be a small amount of money now but planning ahead is appropriate.

 20:30 <skellat> Besides, can we do some other form of trinket like ink pens in addition to stickers?

 20:30 <skellat> Or even key fobs?

 20:31 <pleia2> can add ideas to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing/Projects

 20:31 <knome> unixstickers.com currently handles the stickers, so if we wanted some other office stuff, we'd need to get a vendor

 20:31 <pleia2> but finding high quality vendors is a whole process

 20:31 <knome> yes, especially considering the shipping can't be $50 to europe.

 20:31 <knome> or the US.

 20:32 <skellat> That's why I wanted to throw the ideas out there

 20:32 <bluesabre0> yeah, looking at you ubuntu store

 20:32 <knome> pleia2, do you still have the ping-pong-ball machine?

 20:32 <elfy> I'd be inclined to stick with what we have for the moment and carry on thinking - we can always add later

 20:32 <ochosi> weeee, ping-pong balls

 20:32 <ochosi> yeah

 20:32 <knome> as a conclusion,

 20:32 <ochosi> i agree

 20:32 <elfy> it's more about recognition in my opinion than what it is physically

 20:32 <knome> i think it's ok to give away anything as prizes that are official marketing assets

 20:33 <knome> yes, that

 20:33 <pleia2> I do

 20:33 <elfy> you do what?

 20:33 <pleia2> have the ping pong ball machine!

 20:33 <knome> pleia2, then that's one relatively cheap option.

 20:33 <elfy> pleia2: aah

 20:33 <knome> i can even make custom SVG's with winner names or sth

 20:33 <pleia2> not in terms of my time :) and I don't know how to ship them

 20:34 <knome> pleia2, right, that of course... feel free to opt-out :)

 20:34 <pleia2> it's kind of a finicky thing

 20:34 <knome> pleia2, put in bubble-wrap, ship

 20:34 <knome> if it breaks, ship again

 20:34 <knome> :D

 20:34 <elfy> without the needle the second time

 20:34 <pleia2> hehe

 20:34 <bluesabre0> haha

 20:34 <knome> maybe we could look into printing onto balloons :PP

 20:35 <knome> those would be easier to ship

 20:35 <elfy> not sure he'd like that knome

 20:35 <knome> not inflated, that is

 20:35 <skellat> But would Mr. Skaggs be okay with being printed on?

 20:35 <knome> i'm sure he'd do that for the community.

 20:35 <elfy> :)

 20:35 <bluesabre0> :D

 20:35 <knome> anyway, let's move on

 20:35 <elfy> yep

 20:35 <Unit193> #topic Announcements

 20:36 <Unit193> #info Beta 2 on the 25th

 20:37 <elfy> if we're lucky

 20:37 <skellat> #info skellat remains on AskUbuntu patrol and even brought up an issue there relative to our flavor: http://meta.askubuntu.com/questions/11946/tagging-xubuntu-when-ubuntu-is-meant

 20:37 <Unit193> Anyone?

 20:37 <elfy> no announcements from here

 20:37 <bluesabre0> any freezes around the corner?

 20:38 <bluesabre0> nope, not really

 20:38 <knome> nope

 20:38 <skellat> bluesabre0, I think the Kernel team have one coming up

 20:38 <Unit193> Next one is final, so that'll be a bit.

 20:38 <knome> next freeze is final freeze on oct 16

 20:38 <knome> heh

 20:38 <knome> fwiw,

 20:38 <slickymaster> on october, 9 -> kernel freeze

 20:39 <knome> #info All affecting freezes are added to the team calendar at http://xubuntu.org/team-calendar/

 20:39 <knome> slickymaster, not affecting us

 20:39 <Unit193> At least directly.  So who's next for the meeting?

 20:39 <elfy> slickymaster

 20:40 <knome> slickymaster, want to schedule now?

 20:40 <elfy> might be useful to have one next week post beta

 20:40 <slickymaster> nopes, not yet

 20:40 <skellat> #info Questions that need answering if people are not busy: http://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/xubuntu

 20:40 <knome> elfy, yep.

 20:40 <Unit193> #action slickymaster to schedule the next meeting.

 20:40 * meetingology slickymaster to schedule the next meeting.

 20:41 <knome> slickymaster, once you are ready, ping me and i'll add it to the calendar

 20:41 <slickymaster> thanks knome, but there's no need, I can do it

 20:41 <ochosi> nice

 20:41 <Unit193> Any objections?

 20:41 <knome> slickymaster, oki!

 20:41 <knome> nope

 20:42 <Unit193> #endmeeting
