{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-08-22 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - In-work
** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HyhsMPDyyN-mRWRujfZX3JuKX9aWFQPWsxMEiJX99gQ/edit?hl=es
* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - Postponed until LTS
* charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu - Carried Forward
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS
** Consumes too much memory bug has been fixed

==== Team updates ====
===== Packaging & Development =====

* xubuntu-default-settings was updated to set the default session & greeter for lightdm
* some xubuntu-artwork uploads for the plymouth themes (more to come when madnick and knome are around at the same time)
* mr_pouit fixed the build failure of abiword
* micahg fixed some package conflicts (the gtk themes have been moved from xubuntu-artwork to murrine-themes).
* dropped "de" language packs from i386 daily live to make it fit again in 700M (it wasn't in amd64, only in i386)
* activate the "maybe-ubiquity" option for LTS - Carried Forward

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* The Xubuntu testing daily tracker is at http://2tu.us/3gn1
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Website draft has been forwarded to IS; now awaiting their decision.
* Possible plugin to wordpress to translate the website actively
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website/+bug/797600
* We need to be telling people they can submit articles anytime they want.

===== Artwork =====

* livecd menu logo - knome

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-08-28 at 22:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** 11.10 BetaFreeze: Aug 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC
** User Interface Freeze : August 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC
** 11.10 Beta1: September 1
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
** UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.
** UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

==== Any Other Business ====

* Blueprints
** We should blueprint at least for default applications and have one uds session for default apps
** it would eliminate the time gap we have now deciding what is going to stay and what is going to change
** This could be a single blueprint; specifying goals for Xubuntu for the release cycle

* Beta1 is next week! Let's get a good writeup with all the changes for it, please!

* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-08-22 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

==== Action items ====

* No action items

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-08-22 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/08/22/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Minutes: http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-08-22-19.02.moin.txt

=== People present (lines said) ===

* charlie-tca (187)
* GridCube (62)
* knome (54)
* Olbi (49)
* mr_pouit (35)
* madnick (16)
* xrdodrx (13)
* meetingology (11)
* pleia2 (10)
* astraljava (6)
* ubottu (4)
* Unit193 (2)
* beardygnome (1)

=== Full Log ===

 19:02:01 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting

 19:02:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug 22 19:02:01 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 19:02:01 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 19:02:40 <GridCube> :)

 19:02:43 <GridCube> meeting time?

 19:02:54 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Agenda for today's meeting:

 19:02:54 <meetingology> TOPIC: Agenda for today's meeting:

 19:02:56 <charlie-tca> * Old business

 19:02:58 <charlie-tca> * Team updates

 19:03:00 <charlie-tca> * Packaging & Development

 19:03:02 <charlie-tca> * Bug Triage & Testing

 19:03:04 <charlie-tca> * Website & Marketing

 19:03:06 <charlie-tca> * Artwork

 19:03:08 <charlie-tca> * Documentation

 19:03:10 <charlie-tca> * Announcements

 19:03:12 <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

 19:03:14 <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

 19:03:16 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 19:03:30 <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 19:03:32 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Old Business ===

 19:03:32 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Old Business ===

 19:03:45 <charlie-tca> geany has a delay when trying to use the right click menu

 19:04:12 <charlie-tca> GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - In-work

 19:04:29 <charlie-tca> If anyone has something in particular they think should be in the list, please tell GridCube

 19:04:39 <GridCube> hard week

 19:04:49 <charlie-tca> so, slow progress?

 19:04:50 <GridCube> no progress, hope to get it done this week

 19:04:58 <GridCube> ..

 19:05:15 <charlie-tca> Thank you, GridCube

 19:05:22 <charlie-tca> Your efforts are apreciated!

 19:05:25 <charlie-tca> madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - In-work

 19:05:26 <GridCube> oh yes telling me its cool, its hard to see what its important to add

 19:05:32 <charlie-tca> madnick: how we doing?

 19:05:33 <GridCube> ..

 19:05:54 <madnick> Doing OK, the greeter itself works

 19:06:07 <madnick> Its not finished, but the problem i have is with --test-mode )

 19:06:18 <madnick> But I hope to be done by this week

 19:06:20 <charlie-tca> Maybe they broke that mode now?

 19:06:38 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: what's the latest date we have to be done by?

 19:06:39 <madnick> Maybe, It just twitches and dies and no logs on it

 19:06:58 <mr_pouit> UI freeze is on next thursday iirc

 19:07:09 <madnick> ..

 19:07:22 <charlie-tca> so, we need to get lightdm in by the 25th

 19:07:40 <charlie-tca> charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu

 19:07:42 <charlie-tca> I forgot

 19:07:59 <charlie-tca> will get this going this week

 19:08:06 <Olbi> Hello all :)

 19:08:21 <charlie-tca> Hello, Olbi

 19:08:25 <GridCube> hello Olbi

 19:08:32 <charlie-tca> Welcome to the Xubuntu Community Meeting

 19:08:43 <charlie-tca> Any questions on old business?

 19:08:49 <charlie-tca> any old business we missed?

 19:08:58 <GridCube> not that i recall

 19:09:05 <knome> WWII

 19:09:16 <GridCube> thats pretty much done

 19:09:30 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Team updates ===

 19:09:30 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Team updates ===

 19:09:32 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Packaging & Development ====

 19:09:32 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Packaging & Development ====

 19:09:35 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: ??

 19:09:40 <GridCube> o/

 19:10:02 <mr_pouit> GridCube: question?

 19:10:14 <GridCube> what happened to mousepad and scrot

 19:10:15 <GridCube> ?

 19:10:26 <mr_pouit> mousepad has been replaced by leafpad

 19:10:33 <knome> \o/

 19:10:39 <xrdodrx> \o/

 19:10:41 <GridCube> oh.. i see. ok.

 19:10:44 <charlie-tca> They broke mousepad bad for us

 19:10:59 <charlie-tca> ..

 19:10:59 <xrdodrx> mousepad doesn't even function properly for me in natty :/

 19:11:08 <mr_pouit> (mousepad is supposed to be a better fork of leafpad, but mousepad isn't well maintained currently, and leafpad has some activity upstream, and uses teh gtk+ printing api)

 19:11:27 <GridCube> okay

 19:11:29 <GridCube> and scrot?

 19:11:48 <mr_pouit> was it in the default package set?

 19:11:51 <mr_pouit> I don't think so

 19:12:06 <GridCube> dunno, in today test install it wasnt there

 19:12:48 <charlie-tca> !info scrot

 19:12:54 <ubottu> scrot (source: scrot): command line screen capture utility. In component universe, is optional. Version 0.8-13 (natty), package size 15 kB, installed size 72 kB

 19:13:05 <charlie-tca> snapshot?

 19:13:25 <charlie-tca> screenshot

 19:13:41 <charlie-tca> was missing from Accessiories?

 19:13:42 <GridCube> the problem is that using print screen key doesnt work if you have the panels locked, so

 19:14:08 <GridCube> when you want to screenshot something that hangs the panels., like an error you have to launch it from a terminal

 19:14:23 <GridCube> and scrot is faster to write than xfce4-screenshoter

 19:15:10 <GridCube> ..

 19:15:24 <charlie-tca> oh

 19:15:35 <charlie-tca> we have never installed scrot by default

 19:16:04 <mr_pouit> GridCube: really? printscreen should call the xfce4-screenshooter binary, not the panel plugin, so it should work afaik

 19:16:10 <GridCube> no

 19:16:13 <mr_pouit> if it doesn't, please file a bug

 19:16:25 <GridCube> no keybinging work if a panel is open

 19:16:34 <GridCube> like configuration or something like that

 19:16:36 <GridCube> it never did

 19:16:39 <mr_pouit> ah, yeah, because it gets the focus

 19:17:07 <GridCube> if you launch the start menu, forget about keybindings

 19:17:15 <mr_pouit> (and grabs the keyboard, etc. like when a menu is opened)

 19:17:21 <GridCube> yes that

 19:17:22 <mr_pouit> yeah

 19:17:35 <Olbi> maybe shutter? http://shutter-project.org/

 19:17:42 <xrdodrx> what is the benefit of locking the panel?

 19:17:48 <mr_pouit> I think it's a problem (or call that a design choice) of gtk

 19:17:48 <Olbi> is better than scrot :]

 19:17:48 <charlie-tca> nah, it just takes installing scrot

 19:17:56 <GridCube> and launching scrot is faster, i could xfce4-sc[tab][tab] but is faster to scrot

 19:18:15 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: what about seeding scrot? Is it possible?

 19:18:22 <GridCube> nevermind i though it was on previous versions

 19:18:27 <xrdodrx> GridCube, xfce4-screenshotter is part of default xfce

 19:18:31 <xrdodrx> scrot is a command line application

 19:18:42 <xrdodrx> i don't think we want to replace something graphical with something command line

 19:18:43 <GridCube> i must have installed it back in the day on 10.04

 19:18:54 <Olbi> scrt will be very usfell, specially when u are tested livecd

 19:19:04 <xrdodrx> especially since new users aren't going to want to open a terminal just to take a screenshot :\

 19:19:08 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: daily alternate/i386 is already oversized by ~300k, I'd like to avoid that

 19:19:15 <charlie-tca> good enough

 19:19:21 <Olbi> so for graphical take shutter, and for cmd scrot

 19:19:27 <charlie-tca> if a user really wants it, they should install it then

 19:19:37 <xrdodrx> ^

 19:19:41 <GridCube> no, as i said, i though it was there back on 10.04 but i must have installed it myself

 19:19:45 <charlie-tca> It really is a matter of the number of letters needed to run the app

 19:19:51 <GridCube> yes

 19:19:57 <xrdodrx> GridCube, create an alias

 19:20:06 <Olbi> xubuntu is for devel or fo users?:P

 19:20:32 <charlie-tca> Xubuntu is for users. We do what is best for the user, almost all the time.

 19:20:41 <xrdodrx> echo 'alias sshot="xfce4-screenshotter"' >> ~/.bashrc

 19:20:43 <xrdodrx> :)

 19:20:45 <GridCube> :P it would be faster to launch xfce4-screenshoter that create an alias and then launch it, so never mind

 19:21:12 <GridCube> ..

 19:21:15 <Olbi> maybe script for xfce4-screenshoter ?

 19:21:20 <charlie-tca> The point was, whether in live session or installed session, scrot is faster to type the xfce4-screenshooter

 19:21:27 <Olbi> which will be called screenshot?

 19:21:39 <xrdodrx> but just hitting the prntscrn key brings up xfce4-screenshotter

 19:21:44 <charlie-tca> It doesn't matter which one he uses, they both will do the same job for it.

 19:21:47 <xrdodrx> this wouldn't work with scrot since scrot is command line

 19:22:00 <beardygnome> i came in late so sorry if i'm back tracking here, but are keyboard shortcuts broken in oneric?

 19:22:01 <charlie-tca> okay, let's continue with the meeting.

 19:22:22 <GridCube> yes please

 19:22:22 <charlie-tca> no, you can't use them when a panel app is hung

 19:22:34 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: do you have a developer update today?

 19:22:39 <mr_pouit> yep

 19:22:46 <charlie-tca> floor is your's

 19:22:55 <mr_pouit> Okay, so, last week, xubuntu-default-settings was updated to set the default session & greeter for lightdm \o/; some xubuntu-artwork uploads for the plymouth themes (more to come when madnick and knome are around at the same time); I fixed the build failure of abiword, and micahg fixed some package conflicts (the gtk themes have been moved from xubuntu-artwork to murrine-themes).

 19:23:25 <mr_pouit> Yesterday I dropped "de" language packs from i386 daily live to make it fit again in 700M (it wasn't in amd64, only in i386 because "we're supposed to have much free space there" :/).

 19:23:30 <knome> mr_pouit, what do you need from us? :)

 19:23:37 <mr_pouit> ..

 19:23:39 <Olbi> I think abiword isnt good ass default aplication for text writing

 19:23:46 <mr_pouit> knome: the 16b theme support :p

 19:24:05 <knome> mr_pouit, okay, i've provided the files for madnick

 19:24:13 <madnick> except the logo! :P

 19:24:16 <knome> hmm?

 19:24:23 <knome> wrong..

 19:24:33 <knome> http://temp.knome.fi/xubuntu/oneiric_plymouth/xubuntu_logo_lowdepth.png

 19:24:33 <Olbi> maybe install by default writer and calc only? they arent so hardly for systems :P

 19:24:34 <knome> there you go

 19:24:44 <madnick> oh okay :)

 19:24:53 <charlie-tca> Olbi: can it wait until we get to Other?

 19:24:58 <Olbi> ok

 19:25:03 <Olbi> charlie-tca: ok

 19:25:44 <charlie-tca> Thanks, mr_pouit. You guys stay pretty busy, I am glad you are on top of things

 19:26:21 <mr_pouit> no, thank you ;-)

 19:26:25 <charlie-tca> knome, madnick : that is the last thing for lightdm, right?

 19:26:25 <mr_pouit> no more questions?

 19:26:26 <GridCube> o/

 19:26:39 <madnick> charlie-tca: for plymouth

 19:26:45 <GridCube> https://launchpad.net/bugs/831488

 19:26:46 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 831488 in gnome-control-center (Ubuntu) "gnome-control-center not found on xubuntu oneiric when launching bluetooth device" [Undecided,New]

 19:26:48 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: maybe-ubiquity is just the app that takes the cd menu away

 19:26:57 <charlie-tca> we still need to update the logo for the menu

 19:27:09 <knome> charlie-tca, this was for plymouth. if we have some time, i'd actually want to talk about a few minor issues in lightdm

 19:27:12 <charlie-tca> well, doesn't take it away, but hides it from the users

 19:27:35 <knome> charlie-tca, the UI freeze is on WED, so we need time until tomorrow noon to make absolutely last minute changes?

 19:27:46 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: yeah, all other variants/derivatives/<whatever you call them> use it, don't they?

 19:27:47 <charlie-tca> It gives Ubuntu the "install now"  and "try now"  menu late in the boot process instead of the cd menu

 19:28:10 <charlie-tca> I don't remember if they all use it.

 19:28:16 <charlie-tca> You want the menu hidden?

 19:28:30 <charlie-tca> I will have it activated if we do want it.

 19:28:43 <charlie-tca> Shouldn't take effort here, installer does it all

 19:29:13 <charlie-tca> but I still need to get the logo on the menu updated, since pressing a key gives the user the same menu we have

 19:29:16 <mr_pouit> I recall it was a bit nicer, but I didn't use an ubuntu/kubuntu iso for a long time ;>

 19:29:25 <charlie-tca> Okay

 19:29:31 <charlie-tca> I will tell them do it to us

 19:29:43 <knome> o/ i'm just having a talk with NCommander on the livecd menu logo

 19:29:47 <mr_pouit> okay, if it's too risky, we can delay that for O+1

 19:29:48 <charlie-tca> knome: lightdm?

 19:29:53 <knome> no, before that

 19:30:05 <charlie-tca> yay

 19:30:53 <charlie-tca> UI freeze is at August 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC

 19:31:13 <knome> oh, so aug 24 is the last day to submit things?

 19:31:34 <charlie-tca> So, Thursday about 1 and a half hours from now

 19:31:56 <knome> well, the wiki said last minute updates should be made 1 day earlier

 19:31:58 <charlie-tca> Preferred to get things in wednesday, yes

 19:32:06 <knome> yeah.

 19:32:12 <knome> madnick, do you have some time today?

 19:32:20 <madnick> I guess sleep will have to wait until friday :|

 19:32:23 <madnick> knome: yes

 19:32:30 <knome> madnick, takes maybe 15mins, or at most 30

 19:32:36 <charlie-tca> Any questions on development and packaging?

 19:32:51 <charlie-tca> knome: you got the logo update handled?

 19:33:09 <knome> charlie-tca, i'll try to do that, if at all possible, but i think yes'ish

 19:33:16 <charlie-tca> okay

 19:33:25 <GridCube> charlie-tca, today's bug?

 19:33:27 <charlie-tca> You had some lightdm things to discuss?

 19:33:34 <GridCube> isnt for packaging?

 19:33:46 <charlie-tca> GridCube: mr_pouit got a handle on that already

 19:33:50 <GridCube> oh

 19:33:52 <GridCube> okay

 19:33:55 <GridCube> :)

 19:33:55 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: knome: thank you for the boot menu and logo "investigations" ;-)

 19:33:58 <knome> charlie-tca, with madnick, we'll handle those after the meeting, just some final tweaks for the artwork

 19:34:04 <knome> mr_pouit, no problem sir ;)

 19:34:10 <charlie-tca> Thank you, knome

 19:34:12 <knome> mr_pouit, i'll let you do the technical part though

 19:34:18 <mr_pouit> eww :p

 19:34:23 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: you are most welcome. Glad we finally got one

 19:35:06 <charlie-tca> madnick, knome : ubuntustudio might want to discuss lightdm themes too

 19:35:20 <charlie-tca> They are trying to figure out how to do what you did!

 19:35:36 <knome> charlie-tca, probably better to ask madnick about the code

 19:35:57 <charlie-tca> I will tell them, if madnick is okay with that?

 19:36:02 <madnick> sure

 19:36:34 <charlie-tca> Great!

 19:36:34 * astraljava hails charlie-tca re: studio - lightdm

 19:36:42 <charlie-tca> yup

 19:36:56 <charlie-tca> madnick will be happy to explain what he did

 19:37:03 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 19:37:03 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 19:37:33 <charlie-tca> Testing is slow. We need to get on top of it again. We do have a tracker for daily testing at:

 19:37:45 <charlie-tca> http://www.google.com/url?q=http://2tu.us/3dmh&usd=2&usg=ALhdy2__BW8olO1HKH4HdYEcAVhIv6zxCw

 19:38:05 <astraljava> Yep, thankfully, work slows down a bit, so I'll have more time for that.

 19:38:06 <astraljava> ..

 19:39:06 <charlie-tca> http://2tu.us/3gn1

 19:39:10 <charlie-tca> That's better

 19:40:06 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Do we need a separate bug report for each application giving us fails with the stuff at https://launchpadlibrarian.net/77809901/Captura%20de%20pantalla%20-%20220811%20-%2012%3A22%3A14.png

 19:40:09 <Unit193> I have both images now for today

 19:40:29 <charlie-tca> We have several apps failing for the same things not updated?

 19:41:02 <Olbi> I will try to help with testing from tomorrow :]

 19:41:03 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: it should be a transient issue

 19:41:23 <mr_pouit> I think they were updated tomorrow, so maybe they have not propagated to all mirrors?

 19:41:27 <charlie-tca> Okay, more reasons to keep up with the daily testing

 19:41:30 <mr_pouit> s/tomorrow/today/

 19:41:36 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: I get them from main

 19:41:48 <charlie-tca> oh, nm

 19:42:18 <charlie-tca> We just have to keep checking to see if they fixed this week

 19:42:29 <mr_pouit> e.g. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/oneiric-changes/2011-August/007395.html

 19:42:30 <Olbi> where I can get daily images?

 19:42:46 <madnick> !topic

 19:42:46 <ubottu> Please read the channel topic whenever you enter, as it contains important information. To view it at any time after joining, simply type /topic

 19:42:52 <GridCube> i've done tests today

 19:42:54 <charlie-tca> Olbi: http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/

 19:43:06 <GridCube> this week i can do a few more, everyday hopefully

 19:43:09 <charlie-tca> GridCube: updated the spreadsheet?

 19:43:12 <GridCube> yes

 19:43:14 <Olbi> charlie-tca: thx very much

 19:43:15 <charlie-tca> Thanks

 19:43:23 <charlie-tca> Olbi: you are welcome

 19:43:29 <charlie-tca> Any other questions for testing?

 19:43:47 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Website & Marketing ====

 19:43:47 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Website & Marketing ====

 19:44:00 <charlie-tca> pleia2 and knome : your turn please

 19:44:04 <pleia2> website is looking good :)

 19:44:08 <pleia2> knome has updates

 19:44:12 <knome> charlie-tca, we're forwarding the code to IS today

 19:44:15 <charlie-tca> I hear good things!

 19:44:18 <knome> charlie-tca, once i get there

 19:44:20 <charlie-tca> w00t!

 19:44:37 <pleia2> IS will need to do code review for the theme and plugin, hopefully it won't take long

 19:44:48 <charlie-tca> hopefully...

 19:44:55 <pleia2> once that's done we'll be able to work on the staging server, moving all content over

 19:45:14 <charlie-tca> People are expecting more news and information about Xubuntu. Any ideas?

 19:45:45 <Olbi> charlie-tca: agree

 19:45:48 <knome> try to make the blog more open to new contributors than it is now

 19:46:01 <charlie-tca> what blog?

 19:46:10 <charlie-tca> the news area?

 19:46:13 <knome> well, the xubuntu website "blog"/news

 19:46:16 <Olbi> site is good, but it need some local transaltions :]

 19:46:20 <knome> yes, as discussed earlier

 19:46:29 <knome> pleia2, crap, translations

 19:46:34 <knome> pleia2, let's add them later

 19:46:34 <charlie-tca> We need to be telling people they can submit articles anytime they want.

 19:46:35 <knome> :)

 19:46:53 <charlie-tca> but we won't ever have everyone entitled to upload, I don't think

 19:47:03 <Olbi> maybe news about new programs from xfce mailing lists?

 19:47:04 <pleia2> we'll need to talk to someone who knows more about translations, I don't know best practices for this

 19:47:16 <charlie-tca> Olbi: any idea how to do the translations?

 19:47:35 <Olbi> charlie-tca: thinking :)

 19:47:51 <Olbi> charlie-tca: what framework is used for site?

 19:47:55 <pleia2> wordpress

 19:48:01 <knome> pleia2, there is a good plugin for WP for translations

 19:48:08 <Olbi> knome: good :]

 19:48:09 <pleia2> knome: ah, nice

 19:48:14 <charlie-tca> Obvious, I guess... ML should have reminders about articles and where to submit them ?

 19:48:17 <Olbi> so we are at home

 19:48:56 <knome> pleia2, http://wpml.org/

 19:49:01 <Olbi> we need testing page for transaltions

 19:49:11 <pleia2> the translations bug report is here, so if people have thoughts: https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website/+bug/797600

 19:49:12 <ubottu> Ubuntu bug 797600 in Xubuntu Website "Impossible to translate the Xubuntu website" [Undecided,Confirmed]

 19:49:23 <knome> oh wait, that says "purchase" ? hmm, need to investigate :|

 19:49:56 <knome> pleia2, http://wpml.org/purchase/non-profits/ too

 19:49:59 <Olbi> xD

 19:50:12 <charlie-tca> ..

 19:50:23 <charlie-tca> Continuing on then,

 19:50:26 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Artwork ====

 19:50:26 <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Artwork ====

 19:50:34 <charlie-tca> I don't see ochosi back yet.

 19:50:40 <charlie-tca> knome: any update?

 19:50:47 <knome> about what exactly?

 19:50:57 <charlie-tca> do you know what happened to the greybird updates for Oneiric?

 19:51:01 <knome> no

 19:51:09 <pleia2> knome: can you add the nonprofit link to the bug report so we remember it?

 19:51:12 <charlie-tca> There were some being done, but we seem to have lost them

 19:51:20 <knome> pleia2, sure

 19:51:30 <pleia2> ty

 19:51:32 <charlie-tca> When will ochosi be back?

 19:51:33 <Olbi> artwork is great, but I think theme from official Ubuntu is so good :]

 19:51:56 <knome> charlie-tca, probably tomorrow for a while. he doesn't have a shell right now, but email works

 19:52:02 <charlie-tca> okay

 19:52:16 <charlie-tca> worries me that we lost those upgrades to greybird

 19:52:53 <knome> they are most probably in github anyway

 19:52:56 <charlie-tca> Okay, any other questions / comments for website, marketing, artwork?

 19:53:15 <Olbi> I saw in some themes that characters are seen after changing

 19:53:22 <Olbi> arent

 19:53:27 <charlie-tca> right, knome. I think that is where those of us that got them went

 19:53:43 <knome> i'll get the livecd menu image changed

 19:53:43 <charlie-tca> anything specific, Olbi ?

 19:53:50 <charlie-tca> :)

 19:54:15 <Olbi> charlie-tca: I  have to check it one more time to say which

 19:54:26 <Olbi> charlie-tca: and what

 19:54:27 <charlie-tca> file bugs on the themes that it happens in?

 19:54:44 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Announcements ===

 19:54:44 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Announcements ===

 19:55:03 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-08-28 at 22:00 UTC

 19:55:05 <charlie-tca> * Important dates coming up:

 19:55:07 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 BetaFreeze: Aug 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC

 19:55:09 <charlie-tca> * User Interface Freeze : August 25, 2011 at 21:00 UTC

 19:55:11 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Beta1: September 1

 19:55:13 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 19:55:15 <charlie-tca> * UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.

 19:55:17 <charlie-tca> * UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

 19:55:19 <charlie-tca> two days left to apply for UDS sponsorship

 19:55:41 <charlie-tca> Note the UI freeze and beta1 freeze!

 19:55:59 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Any Other Business ===

 19:55:59 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Any Other Business ===

 19:56:01 <charlie-tca> * Blueprints

 19:56:03 <charlie-tca> * We should blueprint at least for default applications

 19:56:24 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: I think we should at least blueprint and have one uds session for default apps

 19:57:02 <charlie-tca> it would eliminate the time gap we have now deciding what is going to stay and what is going to change

 19:58:03 <GridCube> interesting

 19:58:08 <Olbi> so when will be official blueprint for 11.10?

 19:58:21 <charlie-tca> already

 19:58:34 <Olbi> my bad, sorry :P

 19:58:35 <charlie-tca> 11.10 will be released in October.

 19:58:35 <mr_pouit> if you think so (I'm not sure we've _that_ many apps we want to change, so maybe blueprints are overkill ;-)

 19:58:42 <astraljava> I'm guessing charlie-tca referred to next devel cycle.

 19:59:12 <charlie-tca> Let's think on it, anyway. It would help get us some recognition from the Ubuntu side of things, too.

 19:59:14 <GridCube> oh o/

 19:59:27 <GridCube> greybird isnt updated

 19:59:33 <GridCube> in oeneric

 19:59:37 <charlie-tca> right

 19:59:54 <charlie-tca> ochosi will be back tomorrow, hopefully, and can push the updates in to mr_pouit

 20:00:19 <charlie-tca> Olbi: you wanted to discuss abiword?

 20:00:22 <GridCube> he might have to check whats happening whit gtk3

 20:00:35 <charlie-tca> This is the time for it

 20:00:52 <GridCube> i get warnings from it all the time in oneiric

 20:01:00 <knome> afaik, the freybird gtk3 theme is still WIP :|

 20:01:01 <mr_pouit> (for thursday, we've got to sort out the plymouth 16bit theme fallback, the lightdm greeter, and the greybird update ;p)

 20:01:10 <GridCube> I, for one, support abiword

 20:01:18 <knome> plymouth and lightdm are ready today

 20:01:43 <charlie-tca> madnick: gonna get a new tar file to mr_pouit today?

 20:03:14 * GridCube thinks we shouldnt even pack ristretto

 20:03:20 <madnick> charlie-tca: yes

 20:03:41 <knome> i don't agree with GridCube. there was a discussion about this earlier, and we decided to keep ristretto.

 20:03:45 <madnick> however, since mr_pouit already packaged it, perhaps its better to use send the affected files?

 20:03:51 <charlie-tca> ristretto's memory consumption has been fixed now

 20:04:07 <GridCube> but it doesnt add up nothing gThumb doesnt do better

 20:04:09 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: new complete tar or just the changes?

 20:04:22 <GridCube> anyway, thats my opinion

 20:04:32 <mr_pouit> madnick: what you prefer

 20:04:58 <charlie-tca> Olbi: Why do you think abiword is not good?

 20:05:14 <madnick> mr_pouit: okay

 20:05:37 <knome> GridCube, there is going to be lots of updates to ristretto soonish, and as it's an "xfce" app, i'd like to prefer it ti gthumb. the improvements won't make it into oneiric, but it's more consistent to keep ristretto for this release too, if we're going to drop gthumb in the next.

 20:05:57 <GridCube> okay

 20:06:02 <GridCube> i understand that

 20:06:04 <GridCube> :)

 20:06:16 <knome> good. that was pretty much the only reason to keep ristretto

 20:06:18 <charlie-tca> remains to be seen if we want ristretto or gthumb in the lts, I guess

 20:06:25 <knome> yes, exactly

 20:06:28 <mr_pouit> I've a patch ready to plug some memleaks

 20:06:32 <knome> but ristretto should be good :)

 20:06:57 <GridCube> if ristretto could add text yes i would choose it over anyother

 20:06:59 <charlie-tca> yes, that ristretto developer worked hard to patch the leaks.

 20:07:08 <mr_pouit> (I committed it to the debian packaging, but I haven't uploaded yet)

 20:07:12 <charlie-tca> GridCube: put in a wishlist for it?

 20:07:30 <GridCube> (if it would actually figure out that im opening a folder whit lots of fimages too, it doesnt do that now on oneric)

 20:07:31 <charlie-tca> okay, anything else we need / want to discuss?

 20:07:42 <GridCube> not from me

 20:07:48 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: will those patches make oneiric?

 20:08:25 <Olbi> sorry for afk

 20:08:43 <charlie-tca> Beta1 is next week! Let's get a good writeup with all the changes for it, please!

 20:08:44 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: yeah, I'll try to upload soon

 20:08:48 <Olbi> charlie-tca: Abiword isnt so popular

 20:08:53 <charlie-tca> why?

 20:09:16 <charlie-tca> Abiword has most of the functionality of openoffice / libreoffice writer

 20:09:25 <knome> do we want the glowy logo, or the logo with white and blue on the bootmenu (remember the BG is just pure black)

 20:09:36 <charlie-tca> It just takes a lot less memory and drive space

 20:09:42 <Olbi> in my work when we print in one year we have only 2 documents good that I know format of this word processor

 20:10:00 <Olbi> my mates doesnt know that :P

 20:10:03 <knome> white+blue is better for 16bit, because there we don't have the possibility to probe for bitdepth

 20:10:13 <Olbi> they know only odf formats

 20:10:32 <charlie-tca> knome: probable white+blue then?

 20:10:35 <GridCube> Olbi, you can choose to save documents in other formats beside abw

 20:10:42 <knome> charlie-tca, okay, good

 20:10:55 <Olbi> but it isnt 100% compatybility with ODF :

 20:11:01 <charlie-tca> You should be able to save as .odf, can't you?

 20:11:13 <charlie-tca> oh, and libreoffice is?

 20:11:17 <Olbi> i was checking formating 10 times and allways have problems with it

 20:11:45 <knome> if you definitely need to have better support for ODF, it's not too hard to install libreoffice from the repositories

 20:11:51 <Olbi> especially when trying edit documents from Writer :)

 20:11:57 <charlie-tca> The abiword developers will try to fix those things, if they know about them

 20:12:09 <Olbi> but marketing is crap :]

 20:13:17 <charlie-tca> marketing is difficult, but that has nothing to do with quality of use

 20:13:53 <Olbi> I know that they want better and better, but users prefer app which is more popular and they were teached in school

 20:14:01 <charlie-tca> Well, I think we should end the meeting, anyway. We can discuss the pros and cons of abiword outside the meeting

 20:14:11 <Olbi> ok, we close taht

 20:14:34 <charlie-tca> Um, do they teach anything except microsoft applications in school?

 20:14:41 <Unit193> ^^

 20:14:48 <Olbi> they teach both MS and LO :D

 20:15:11 <charlie-tca> So, a simple "sudo apt-get install libreoffice-writer" should take care of it

 20:15:18 <Olbi> no :)

 20:15:23 <charlie-tca> why?

 20:15:29 <Olbi> you only take english version of it :]

 20:15:38 <charlie-tca> Whether we install it or you install it, it is installed

 20:15:52 <Olbi> and others plugins and translates u have to search :]

 20:16:05 <Olbi> it isnt like Windows version :]

 20:16:11 <charlie-tca> so, if it is installed instead of abiword, it is the same, right?

 20:16:45 <charlie-tca> This isn't windows, but if you file bugs, things get fixed. Nothing happens if a bug didn't get filed.

 20:17:20 <charlie-tca> Thanks, everybody, for participating in the meeting.

 20:17:30 <Olbi> do as you want, staying with abiword doesnt help LO be more popular in schools and houses

 20:17:32 <charlie-tca> madnick: astraljava wants to talk about lightdm coding

 20:17:52 <charlie-tca> Sorry, we are here to market libreoffice.

 20:18:14 <knome> are we?

 20:18:17 <knome> /part

 20:18:18 <knome> :)

 20:18:31 <astraljava> Yep, madnick, if you have time, could you skip over to #ubuntustudio-devel, please?

 20:18:33 <charlie-tca> That is not for us to do. We would prefer users just use Xubuntu, and if they desire libreoffice, they should install it.

 20:18:41 <charlie-tca> yes, knome

 20:18:43 <charlie-tca> thanks

 20:18:49 <madnick> astraljava: could i please do it after i fix the plymouth theme? it only take a lil bit

 20:18:50 <Olbi> we want all less popular of MS programs :D

 20:19:17 <astraljava> madnick: I'm in no hurry. Don't know how falktx has time, but by all means. Thanks!

 20:19:28 <charlie-tca> and abiword is not MS. But we are not going to switch applications just to market something else. That is for libreoffice to do, not Xubuntu.

 20:19:51 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
