{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 09 Jan at 18:57 &mdash; 19:34 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-01-09-18.57.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 19:00.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (19:00)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi and knome to come up with more testing stuff later (within a week)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
** Team members wanting things tested need to ensure a mail get's sent to the -dev list

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:07.

** knome and ochosi went through https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-t-features, which now has updated whiteboard and work items statuses
** knome finished the finnish tranlsation for xubuntu docs
** knome worked on the website, refreshing release planned soon
** slickymaster finished the portuguese translation for xubuntu docs
** ochosi and bluesabre worked on light-locker theming
** bugfix for 1206739 got into saucy-updates
** bugfix for 1208204 (indicator-sound-gtk2) also got into saucy-updates
** work towards use of autopilot is still ongoing - but it's unlikely to get there this cycle
** package testing moving on - calling for seperate sections every couple of weeks
** checking of required testcases for each call being lined up by -qa
** iso testing - moves forward as always
** calls have been going out to -testers
** calls having little effect on reported numbers
** ''ACTION:'' elfy and knome/ochosi to discuss lightlocker testing - perhaps include old post install testing in that
** we need to be moving towards getting testcase for the other new stuff in the next week or so
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to discuss future of -testers with knome
** alpha 2 is in 2 weeks
** feature freeze is in 6 weeks
** ''ACTION:'' knome will get session bug fix uploaded
** libxfce4ui is waiting for a sponsor to upload it to trusty
** debian will upload more 4.11 components this month
** debian have fixed the power manager systemd issue in svn, it should be uploaded soon
** gthumb 3.2.6 is now uploaded and web-plugins are re-enabled
** prpltwtr will release sometime this month

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:15.

** slickymaster is applying for ubuntu membership, go give him testimonials at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/slickymaster if you are familiar with his work
** Noskcaj needs more testimonials for xubuntu packageset, add them at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Noskcaj#Xubuntu_PackageSet
** Noskcaj is part-way through applyignfor motu and xubuntu packageset via email
** Noskcaj is now on the bug control team

==== New and emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 19:19.

* '''Which GTK3 indicators are we going to ship?''' (19:19)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Trusty/Gtk3Indicators 
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
* '''Enabling more people to push to Xubuntu branches''' (19:28)
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (19:33)
** Next meeting Jan 16, 19UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
* elfy
** elfy and knome/ochosi to discuss lightlocker testing - perhaps include old post install testing in that
** elfy to discuss future of -testers with knome
* knome
** ochosi and knome to come up with more testing stuff later (within a week)
** knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** elfy and knome/ochosi to discuss lightlocker testing - perhaps include old post install testing in that
** elfy to discuss future of -testers with knome
** knome will get session bug fix uploaded
* ochosi
** ochosi and knome to come up with more testing stuff later (within a week)
** ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
** elfy and knome/ochosi to discuss lightlocker testing - perhaps include old post install testing in that

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (109)
* elfy (36)
* ali1234 (22)
* meetingology (18)
* Noskcaj (15)
* ochosi (9)
* brainwash_ (4)
* sergio-br2 (4)
* slickymaster (4)
* jjfrv8 (3)
* ubottu (2)
