{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 19 May at 21:02 &mdash; 22:37 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2020/xubuntu-devel.2020-05-19-21.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 21:10.

** bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up email/vote to the list
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up vote for desktop changes to the ML

==== Updates and announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and announcements" started at 21:12.

** akxwi-dave and slickymaster have been deactivated from the team since they've been inactive for a while. Thanks for all the support you've given us over the years!
** jphilips put together a nice release video for 20.04, check it out if you haven't seen it (link below)
** ''LINK:'' https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4a_uVSNnIGY 

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 21:23.

* '''GitHub Proposal''' (21:23)
** ''Vote:'' Move code hosting and translations to GitHub and Transifex? (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to move code hosting and translations to GitHub and Transifex
* '''Telegram Groups and IRC Bridge''' (21:55)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.xubuntu.org/proposals/telegram-bridge 
** ''Vote:'' Connect Telegram with #xubuntu? (Deadlock)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to send vote to ML for Xubuntu Telegram bridge
* '''Xubuntu Council Nominations for the 22.04 Cycle''' (22:24)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to notify the ML of Xubuntu Council nominations

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 22:29.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 22:37.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2020/xubuntu-devel.2020-05-19-21.02.log.html#120 Move code hosting and translations to GitHub and Transifex?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 4/0/0)
** Voters Unit193, pleia2, bluesabre, ochosi
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2020/xubuntu-devel.2020-05-19-21.02.log.html#226 Connect Telegram with #xubuntu?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 2/2/0)
** Voters Unit193, pleia2, bluesabre, ochosi

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up vote for desktop changes to the ML
** bluesabre to move code hosting and translations to GitHub and Transifex
** bluesabre to send vote to ML for Xubuntu Telegram bridge
** bluesabre to notify the ML of Xubuntu Council nominations
* jphilips
** bluesabre and jphilips to send follow-up vote for desktop changes to the ML
* knome
** knome to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (122)
* pleia2 (49)
* jphilips (39)
* meetingology (31)
* Unit193 (29)
* ochosi (28)
* ubottu (1)
* knome (0)
* krytarik (0)
