{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-04-07 Meeting Minutes ===

==== Old Business ====

* charlie-tca to check on 11.04 docs - docs were re-written for 11.04
* charlie-tca needs to review Testing wiki pages - done; there are still some items that need to be cleaned up, but it is mostly up to date
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - carried forward/after natty releases
* Charlie as Project Lead will draw up a proposal to be added the the Xubuntu Strategy Document for choosing a new Project Lead by community vote
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* Fixed a locale issue between gdm and xfce4-session.
* Fixed an issue with xfce4-panel's default settings, sorry for the panel layout breakage ;-)
* Applied upstream patch to fix task grouping/dropdown button issue in xfce4-panel.
* Fixed FTBFS of xfce4-radio-plugin (port to libv4l1, testing welcome).
* Uploaded xubuntu-default-settings to fix the ugly resize/move box for xfwm4, and xubuntu-artwork to include some icon fixes from ochosi.
* Uploaded new bugfix releases for garcon (and another upload to fix a regression found by micahg), xfce4-panel and xfce4-terminal.
* Uploaded a few minutes ago what I found in lp:xubuntu-docs (closed 32 bugs).

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Beta1 testing and testing in the Global Jam uncovered a couple of issues.
** Thanks to pleia2 for testing xubuntu specifically during the jam
* We are testing the Beta2 image next week, for release on Thursday.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Still waiting on canonical to set up wordpress.
* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.

===== Artwork =====

* icon-theme was updated to fix gdm, xfce-panel-plugins etc.

===== Documentation =====

* we will have updated documentation for 11.04. It might not be perfect, but it is much better than what we have had for two releases!

==== Announcements ====

* UDS sponsorship approvals/disapprovals went out yesterday.
* Beta 2 freeze - 4/11 (at UTC 09:00 ) - hard freeze
* Kernel freeze - 4/14
* Main/Seeded Final Freeze 14 days (4/14->4/28)
* Unseeded Universe/Multiverse Freeze - 4/26 (at UTC 12:00)
* Unseeded Universe/Multiverse Final Freeze - 2 days (4/26->4/28)
* Natty release 4/28
* Oneiric archive setup for development 4/29
* Beta 2 next week! Help with testing is always welcome
* Natty Narwhal, to be released as Xubuntu 11.04, is due out on April 29

==== Any Other Business ====

* Next meeting is in two weeks, April 21, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-04-07 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Action items for the 2011-04-07 meeting ====

* email the ML with proposed meeting days and times, Mon, Thurs, Fri only for days
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

==== Carried Forward ====

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

===== The Xubuntu Council =====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-04-07 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** pleia2
** beardygnome
** highvoltage
** mr_pouit
** ScottK

http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ubuntu-meeting.log.20110407_1400.html
