{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 20 Jul at 16:28 &mdash; 16:58 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-07-20-16.28.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 16:32.

** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-dev to review requirements for xubuntu-core iso, investigating patches to livecd-rootfs, ubuntu-cdimage and debian-cd

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 16:37.

** knome worked on a PoC for a work items tracker specifically for Xubuntu
** background: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-w/ was last updated on 13 July
** bluesabre packaged shimmer-themes 2.0.0 with the latest themes, micahg will upload soon
** bluesabre is working to get QT apps to appear better in Xubuntu by setting environment variables appropriately
** micahg to work on getting shimmer-themes back into the Xubuntu packageset

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 16:45.

** Feature Freeze on August 20th

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 16:46.

* '''Work items tracker''' (16:47)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to follow up with team about the features the team would like to see in a status tracker, should we decide to use knome's code
* '''Other discussions''' (16:55)

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 16:58.

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to follow up with team about the features the team would like to see in a status tracker, should we decide to use knome's code
* xubuntu-dev
** xubuntu-dev to review requirements for xubuntu-core iso, investigating patches to livecd-rootfs, ubuntu-cdimage and debian-cd

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (66)
* micahg_work (14)
* slickymasterWork (8)
* meetingology (7)
* dkessel (6)
* jjfrv8 (2)
* xubuntu-dev (0)
