{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-08-08 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - In-work
* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - In-work
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS

==== Team updates ====
===== Packaging & Development =====

* new versions of xfce4-screenshooter (1.8.0), midori (0.4.0), xfce4-notifyd (0.2.2) should be sync'd this week
* we dropped epdfview in favor of evince since gnumeric needs evince
* pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* Launchpad bug 800918 in xubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "Some wallpaper/backdrops ideas" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/800918

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* We did not release Alpha3
** The desktop images would not install and the alternate images destroyed data in /home was encrypted
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

===== Website & Marketing =====

* a preview of the Xubuntu website in wordpress was given. Work is proceeding on the change to wordpress.
* beardygnome wrote another awesome review which was replied to here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-July/007898.html
** fixed most things, but I asked some questions there, particularly about documentation and translations stuff I don't understand (so can't fix on the site)
* there is also an outstanding bug that the site isn't translatable, if someone familiar with doing translations and wordpress is around please contact either charlie-tca or pleia2 in #xubuntu-devel about how to handle the site moving forward

===== Artwork =====

* madnick is working on both plymouth and lightdm themes for Xubuntu
** http://www.madnick.se/~madnick/xubuntu
** Please contact charlie-tca or madnick in #xubuntu-devel to help test this
* we need a lightdm theme - madnick will work this

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-08-14 at 22:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011 at 18:00 UTC
** User Interface Freeze : August 25, 2011
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
** UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.
** UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

==== Any Other Business ====

* Release milestone documentation or checklists
** non exist for Xubuntu, although Ubuntu uses them.
** We need to start documenting what needs to happen, and what is happening.
* Blueprints

* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-07-31 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

* One weeks left for current review of revision to Strategy Document concerning electing a Project Lead. email sent to both ML for review.

==== Action items ====

charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-08-08 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/08/08/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

=== People present ===

* charlie-tca
* micahg
* knome
* ChristopherNG
* pleia2
* madnick
* Unit193
* astraljava

=== Full Log ===

[19:02] <charlie-tca> #startmeeting

[19:02] <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Aug  8 19:02:31 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

[19:02] <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

[19:02] <charlie-tca> This is the Xubuntu Community Weekly Meeting

[19:03] <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[19:03] <charlie-tca> * Old business

[19:03] <charlie-tca> * Team updates

[19:03] <charlie-tca>   * Packaging & Development

[19:03] <charlie-tca>   * Bug Triage & Testing

[19:03] <charlie-tca>   * Website & Marketing

[19:03] <charlie-tca>   * Artwork

[19:03] <charlie-tca>   * Documentation

[19:03] <charlie-tca> * Announcements

[19:03] <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

[19:03] <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

[19:03] <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

[19:04] <charlie-tca> anyone not here, please speak up?

[19:04] <knome> i'm not here

[19:04] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Old Business ===

[19:04] <meetingology> TOPIC: === Old Business ===

[19:04]  * knome hides

[19:04] <charlie-tca> noted, knome missing

[19:04] <charlie-tca> Thanks for letting us know

[19:04] <knome> no, i think i am here

[19:04] <ChristopherNG> hey folks first time at this meeting

[19:04]  * knome feels his body

[19:04] <ChristopherNG> really excited

[19:04] <charlie-tca> Welcome, ChristopherNG

[19:04] <knome> definitely here!

[19:04] <charlie-tca> Great! we are all here now

[19:05]  * micahg still doesn't see mr_pouit

[19:05] <charlie-tca> I have not had a chance to dig up the info on Xscreensaver

[19:05]  * pleia2 waves

[19:05] <charlie-tca> it was a bad week

[19:05] <charlie-tca>  * GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - Carried Forward

[19:06] <charlie-tca> GridCube is working on this already. It will done in time for Oneiric's release

[19:06] <charlie-tca> * madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter

[19:06] <knome> o/

[19:06] <charlie-tca> I know this got started

[19:06] <madnick> o/

[19:06] <charlie-tca> go ahead, knome

[19:07] <knome> will the top 10 be put in the website, and/or any other media?

[19:07] <charlie-tca> yes, it will go on the website

[19:07] <charlie-tca> one more reason for users to go to the website

[19:07] <charlie-tca> but it will be a static list

[19:08] <charlie-tca> Go ahead, madnick

[19:09] <madnick> Okay, Ive looked into modifying the Unity-greeter for Xubuntu, and I have that running on my machine, but I have not worked more on it

[19:09] <madnick> Because the lightdm deal seems a bit uncertain: bugs/replacement etc

[19:09]  * charlie-tca nods

[19:10] <madnick> Also I would need input on the theme to use as well

[19:10] <madnick> ..

[19:10] <knome> madnick, if you need any assistance on the theme, just ping me

[19:10] <madnick> knome: thank you :)

[19:10] <knome> madnick, we can go it through after the meeting if you want

[19:10] <madnick> that would be awesome :)

[19:10] <knome> good

[19:10] <charlie-tca> (..?)

[19:10] <madnick> ..

[19:11] <charlie-tca> knome ?

[19:11] <charlie-tca> done?

[19:11] <knome> yup

[19:11] <charlie-tca> Thanks for working on that.

[19:12] <charlie-tca> Yes, there are still several bugs against lightdm that have to get ironed out. I have been talking to quite a few people about that.

[19:12] <charlie-tca>  * GridCube to do comparison chart for gpicview, ristretto, gthumb - Done

[19:13] <charlie-tca> This was added to the gimp comparisons.

[19:14] <charlie-tca> I think we should go for gthumb here, and just leave gimp alone this cycle. We can replace ristretto with gthumb, get more capability for the users, and still have gimp.

[19:14] <charlie-tca> comments?

[19:14] <charlie-tca> ..

[19:14] <knome> i'm not completely sure that's the best thing to do, but i can live with gimp there

[19:14] <knome> ..

[19:14] <Unit193> Anything that can cycle images

[19:15] <Unit193> ..

[19:15] <knome> in #xfce-dev there was some discussion about new features committed in the ristretto master

[19:15] <charlie-tca> Thank you for the inputs.

[19:15] <knome> ..

[19:16] <charlie-tca> but do we want to keep ristretto and add gthumb? gthumb lets you rotate, crop, resize, etc. on your photos, along with image viewing.

[19:17] <knome> i understand the new features had something to do with rotating. and ristretto *is* an xfce project/app, which is a big plus imo

[19:17] <knome> ..

[19:17] <charlie-tca> Want to investigate it deeper, then, and let us know if it will work as well?

[19:19] <charlie-tca> We just got word that removing synaptic is causing segfaults. If you are running Oneiric, don't remove synaptic without checking in #ubuntu+1 for updates

[19:19] <knome> it's probable that those improvements are not going to be ready for use in oneiric. maybe for the next lts, which means it might be wise to stick with ristretto for now and forget gthumb, since as we are keeping gimp, users have a tool for those actions you listed anyway

[19:19] <knome> ..

[19:19] <micahg> charlie-tca: another week shouldn't matter WRT xubuntu, I'd still file a courtesy FFe, but FFes are more about features in the actual apps

[19:19] <charlie-tca> micahg: go ahead and seed gthumb for oneiric. I will carry forward discussions to look into ristretto again for P

[19:20] <micahg> charlie-tca: drop gthumb?

[19:20] <micahg> oops

[19:20] <micahg> I meant ristretto

[19:20] <knome> o/

[19:20] <charlie-tca> If I keep ristretto in the agenda, we won't forget

[19:20] <charlie-tca> go ahead, knome

[19:21] <knome> imo it makes no sense to drop ristretto. then it's kind of "harder" to justify taking it back. and i do think we should prefer xfce applications. that's why i'm proposing to stick with ristretto and not seed gthumb, if we are keeping gimp for oneiric.

[19:21] <knome> ..

[19:22] <charlie-tca> It's only harder if it doesn't meet the users needs.

[19:22] <micahg> charlie-tca: we could just add gthumb to the mix and have viewer, simple editor, advanced editor

[19:23] <charlie-tca> okay, let's do that if we have the space

[19:23] <micahg> yeah, we're good for the moment

[19:23] <knome> sounds good.

[19:23] <charlie-tca> I will still keep ristretto in the old business, to make sure we follow up

[19:24] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Team updates ===

[19:24] <meetingology> TOPIC: === Team updates ===

[19:24] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Packaging & Development ====

[19:24] <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Packaging & Development ====

[19:24] <charlie-tca> micahg: This is for you today

[19:25] <micahg> new versions of xfce4-screenshooter (1.8.0), midori (0.4.0), xfce4-notifyd (0.2.2) should be sync'd this week

[19:26] <micahg> we dropped epdfview in favor of evince since gnumeric needs evince

[19:26] <micahg> I think that's it

[19:27] <micahg> charlie-tca: you mentioned wanting midori before

[19:27] <charlie-tca> I have given up on pavucontrol for oneiric, I don't know that it is needed

[19:27] <micahg> did you want to seed that as well as a lighter browser

[19:27] <charlie-tca> however, pastebinit need to be added to the defaults

[19:27] <micahg> yeah, I can seed pastebinit when I add gthumb later

[19:27] <charlie-tca> micahg: it was a thought, not an absolute

[19:28] <charlie-tca> as it stands now, should we leave midori out and just try to get things straightened out for beta1 ?

[19:28] <charlie-tca> We don't know how much lightdm will grow yet for derivatives

[19:28] <micahg> k, that's fine then

[19:28] <charlie-tca> we will have a new plymouth, too, that is bigger

[19:29] <micahg> ..

[19:29] <charlie-tca> Any other questions for Packaging and Development?

[19:30] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

[19:30] <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

[19:30] <charlie-tca> We did not release Alpha3

[19:30] <charlie-tca> The desktop images would not install and the alternate images destroyed data in /home was encrypted

[19:31] <charlie-tca> We have to try to get things together for beta1

[19:31] <charlie-tca> and, along those lines, does anyone know if we have documentation or checklists for releases?

[19:32] <charlie-tca> It would sure help to have something to guide the decision making

[19:32] <charlie-tca> I see a couple of issues here, that I will bring up in AOB

[19:32] <charlie-tca> Any questions for testing?

[19:33] <charlie-tca> in case of guessing, yes, the images worked monday and failed tuesday, wednesday, thursday

[19:33] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Website & Marketing ====

[19:33] <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Website & Marketing ====

[19:34] <charlie-tca> pleia2: your turn, please

[19:34] <pleia2> I don't have anything, but knome has been doing pretty wordpress work

[19:34] <charlie-tca> yay!

[19:34] <knome> http://xubuntu.princessleia.com/

[19:34] <charlie-tca> knome: got an update for us?

[19:34] <knome> the site sports various improvements over what you saw last week

[19:35] <knome> any feedback? comments?

[19:36] <charlie-tca> o/

[19:36] <knome> sure

[19:36] <charlie-tca> Can we darken the light text a bit? both the shaded gray and shaded blue are hard to see

[19:36] <knome> which light text?

[19:36] <charlie-tca> Read more about Xubuntu Â»

[19:37] <knome> i can look at the text contrasts later today

[19:37] <charlie-tca> everything in that color

[19:37] <knome> sure

[19:37] <knome> some things are deliberately "harder" to see

[19:37] <charlie-tca> I almost missed it here, but it would be better to know if it is just me?

[19:37] <knome> for example, the dates are not so important, but they add a nice touch

[19:37] <charlie-tca> yes, and should be

[19:37] <knome> for me it's clearly visible, but i don't know about others

[19:38] <charlie-tca> for me it's not, can others please comment?

[19:38] <madnick> o/

[19:38] <charlie-tca> go ahead

[19:38] <charlie-tca> ..

[19:38] <charlie-tca> madnick: yes?

[19:38] <madnick> Whilist I can see it, the "RSS feed" and News archive was a bit hard to se

[19:39] <madnick> On a non blank laptop screen

[19:39] <knome> right.

[19:39] <micahg> yeah, that text that charlie-tca mentioned is a little light

[19:40] <knome> is it better now?

[19:40] <charlie-tca> w00t! 100% improved

[19:41] <charlie-tca> Thank you very much

[19:41] <knome> the light gray text should also be darker now

[19:41] <Unit193> I noticed that too

[19:41] <knome> any feedback on the logo? it was something we came up like 5 minutes before the meeting

[19:42] <charlie-tca> Isn't that the same logo we are using?

[19:42] <charlie-tca> no,

[19:42] <knome> yes, it's the same as in plymouth

[19:42] <charlie-tca> it's fuzzy, but I can live with it

[19:42] <knome> i'm waiting for pleia2 to create some screenshots that have a similar ratio to each other, so we can get the chaotic image-size-shuffling end on the frontpage

[19:43] <knome> it's fuzzy because there is blurred stuff, so that it doesn't look too ugly on the background

[19:43] <charlie-tca> It is within the artwork we are using, which makes it work well for me

[19:43] <charlie-tca> ..

[19:43] <madnick> o/

[19:44] <charlie-tca> go ahead, madnick

[19:44] <madnick> The webpage looks really great, and the font is awesome, but what is the fallback font for other OS's?

[19:44] <madnick> I mean, so it looks equally nice for Windows users wanting to get it :)

[19:44] <madnick> ..

[19:44] <knome> sans

[19:45] <knome> i'll probably include "Verdana" before sans

[19:45] <knome> but we're using the google webfonts

[19:45] <knome> so...

[19:45] <knome> afaik you need not to have JS

[19:45] <knome> and not have the ubuntu font

[19:46] <charlie-tca> I think it is looking real nice, myself

[19:47] <charlie-tca> any other questions or comments?

[19:47] <charlie-tca> trying to move along, hate going past an hour

[19:47] <knome> sure

[19:47] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Artwork ====

[19:47] <meetingology> TOPIC: ==== Artwork ====

[19:48] <charlie-tca> minor updates here, madnick is working on both plymouth and lightdm themes for Xubuntu

[19:48] <madnick> o/

[19:48] <charlie-tca> ochosi and knome  are giving assistance and guidance as needed

[19:48] <charlie-tca> go ahead, madnick

[19:48] <knome> (and i can give advice, if you only remember to ping me)

[19:48] <madnick> Oh

[19:49] <madnick> Okay, because ochosi and knome told me they are thinking about it, but it was a bit of conflict

[19:49] <knome> we still are in a conflict :P

[19:49] <madnick> okay, so ill wait :P

[19:49] <charlie-tca> They will iron that out

[19:49] <knome> yeah

[19:49] <knome> i agree with ochosi that it is semantically better to have the circle

[19:49] <knome> but it's hard to make work visually with the logo

[19:49] <madnick> okay, just pm me, if you reach a conclusion or want an idea tested on a real machine

[19:50] <knome> sure, i'll do

[19:50] <knome> ochosi will be mostly away for the next too weeks though

[19:50] <madnick> UI freeze the 25th

[19:50] <knome> but i'll come up with something i know he'd approve too

[19:50] <charlie-tca> I like the circle, for what it's worht

[19:50] <charlie-tca> s/worht/worth

[19:51] <charlie-tca> but I only get glimpses, too

[19:51] <charlie-tca> I really having our own really good looking splash screen the most

[19:51] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Announcements ===

[19:51] <meetingology> TOPIC: === Announcements ===

[19:51] <charlie-tca>  * The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-08-14 at 22:00 UTC

[19:51] <charlie-tca>  * Important dates coming up:

[19:51] <charlie-tca>   * 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011

[19:51] <charlie-tca>   * User Interface Freeze : August 25, 2011

[19:52] <charlie-tca>   * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

[19:52] <charlie-tca>   * UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.

[19:52] <charlie-tca>   * UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

[19:52] <charlie-tca> I know, I know. That's a lot at one throw

[19:52] <knome> !pastebin | charlie-tca

[19:52] <ubottu> charlie-tca: For posting multi-line texts into the channel, please use http://paste.ubuntu.com | To post !screenshots use http://imagebin.org/?page=add | !pastebinit to paste directly from command line | Make sure you give us the URL for your paste - see also the channel topic.

[19:52] <charlie-tca> any questions?

[19:52] <knome> ;)

[19:52] <micahg> nah, for meetings, multiline pastes in context are ok for announcements :)

[19:52] <charlie-tca> meeting notes, preferred not to paste one line at a time this time :)

[19:53] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Any Other Business ===

[19:53] <meetingology> TOPIC: === Any Other Business ===

[19:53] <charlie-tca>  * we should try to get the defaults down this week so we can test drive them right

[19:53] <charlie-tca> Do we have anything to discuss now for defaults?

[19:53] <charlie-tca>  * Release milestone documentation or checklists

[19:54] <charlie-tca> think about what happens if mr_pouit, micahg, ochosi, myself, knome, pleia2 gets hit by a car!

[19:54] <knome> probably bad for the car hitting me

[19:54] <micahg> that would have to be a really fast flying car :)

[19:54] <charlie-tca> Can anyone just "pick it up and get it done"?

[19:54] <knome> cody-somerville!!

[19:54] <charlie-tca> it only takes one of us to drop

[19:55]  * knome hides in the darkest cave

[19:55] <Unit193> astraljav would do it ;)

[19:55] <micahg> jamino will have to come out of retirement :)

[19:55] <charlie-tca> We need to start documenting what needs to happen, and what is happening.

[19:55] <charlie-tca> I think we are doing a good job with the "what is happening" stuff, although we don't do so good updating a team report

[19:56] <charlie-tca> I think we should start a section in the wiki for what needs to happen

[19:56] <charlie-tca> comments?

[19:57] <micahg> sounds like a good idea, ubuntu has a release checklist

[19:57] <charlie-tca> yes, we have "by the seat of our pants" now

[19:57] <charlie-tca> I am willing to start it, but will need some help as it gets going

[19:58] <charlie-tca> I also believe we should start looking towards blueprints for Xubuntu. If we really want Ubuntu to take us seriously, we have to start doing things they expect.

[19:59] <charlie-tca> I propose we examine this stuff, at least. Maybe it won't be reality for P, but it needs to be looked at

[19:59] <charlie-tca> Any other comments/questions/topics?

[19:59] <knome> is the wiki already any faster?

[20:00] <charlie-tca> um, sure ;)

[20:00] <charlie-tca> why wouldn't it be?

[20:01] <charlie-tca> well, I think it is at times

[20:01] <knome> errm, because with canonical, you can't

[20:01] <charlie-tca> Most of the time now, it is faster than last year

[20:01] <knome> even a 486sx is faster than last year

[20:02] <charlie-tca> then the answer is "yes, it is faster" :)

[20:02] <charlie-tca> I believe it is, knome. I have not had to wait 5 minutes to get the agenda to appear for a while

[20:03] <knome> only 4,5 minutes?

[20:03] <charlie-tca> usually just a minute or so

[20:03] <charlie-tca> I think we are under 60 seconds most of the time now

[20:04] <charlie-tca> seriously, it did take 4 to 5 minutes before, and now it is usually under a minute

[20:04]  * astraljava hangs head in shame

[20:04] <charlie-tca> anything else?

[20:04] <charlie-tca> going....

[20:05] <micahg> charlie-tca: I'll have to wait until Wed to upload the new meta, pitti made a change to cups in the platform seed that I have a question about

[20:05] <charlie-tca> Thank you all for attending this meeting! Your participation is very much appreciated

[20:05] <charlie-tca> okay

[20:05] <charlie-tca> should be making cups no longer a recommended for the desktop packages

[20:06] <charlie-tca> We been trying for a long time to get cups to not install for those without printers

[20:06] <charlie-tca> but, that is going off meeting.

[20:06] <charlie-tca> Let's go back to work

[20:07] <charlie-tca> I will dive into the wiki and try to get something started

[20:07] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu

[20:07] <meetingology> ACTION: charlie-tca to start a release checklist page for Xubuntu

[20:07] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

[20:07] <meetingology> Meeting ended Mon Aug  8 20:07:31 2011 UTC.  Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell . (v 0.1.4)

[20:07] <meetingology> Minutes:        http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-08-08-19.02.moin.txt
