{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-07-17 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* micahg to find what Ubuntu-desktop does with java in restricted-extras - Carried Forward
* GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu
* start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Carried Forward
* All teams need to review website content - Carried Forward
** insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team
** send updates to the xubuntu-devel mailing list
** charlie-tca AT ubuntu DOT com
** post them and give us the URL
** submit a bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* merge of the newer xfce4-indicator-plugin release that fixes transparency in progress
* firefox beta 1 is in Oneiric, beta 2 should get in next week
* pavucontrol and pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* look at the possibility of adding midori as a second browser

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* Testing had no images to test this week
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

===== Website & Marketing =====

* beardygnome brought up the ability to add the Xfce news feed to the Xubuntu website.
   This seems like a very good idea, since Xubuntu is based on Xfce, and it would help to keep us informed of any changes being planned.
* All teams need to review website content
** insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team
* we're testing the imgcapt plugin, please contact knome for information

===== Artwork =====

* finished the compact xfwm4 theme (good as alternative for netbooks etc., 18px height instead of 24px)
* added full support for compiz (emerald and metacity themes)
* looking into gtk3 again in oneiric, will need to write a gtk3 specific version of the theme
* there's a git-repo for greybird
** https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird
* can't themes be added to a ppa so when an update to the theme is done we can see it on the update manager?

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-07-25 at 19:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** 10.04.3 Release: July 21, 2011
** We will not be releasing 10.04.3, but will be involved with testing Ubuntu.
** 11.10 Alpha 3: August 4, 2011
** 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
** UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.
** UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

==== Any Other Business ====

* running other distributions and answering help requests in #xubuntu
** too many are now receiving answers of "I don't use Xubuntu, and can't really help with that"
** Xubuntu users will now use !behelpful on a line by itself to help notify those individuals that their comments are not appropriate.
* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-07-17 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* Thanks to the efforts of AlanBell, we now have a bot to record the meeting

==== Action items for the 2011-07-17 meeting ====

* GridCube to put together a top 10 FAQ for the website
* GridCube and Unit193 to get screenshots for the website
* GridCube to start a review on the xubuntu-devel ML for gimp

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-07-17 Meeting Log ===

Meeting started by charlie-tca at 22:01:18 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://mootbot.libertus.co.uk/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-07-17-22.01.log.html

=== People present (lines said) ===

* charlie-tca (168)
* ochosi (62)
* GridCube (44)
* beardygnome (25)
* micahg (18)
* meetingology (12)
* Unit193 (5)
* mr_pouit (5)
* ubottu (4)

=== Full Log ===

 22:01:18 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting

 22:01:18 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Jul 17 22:01:18 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell.

 22:01:18 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 22:01:50 <GridCube> :D

 22:01:54 <charlie-tca> The full agenda for today's meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 22:02:24 <charlie-tca> we will be following :

 22:02:25 <charlie-tca> * Old business

 22:02:28 <charlie-tca> * Team updates

 22:02:30 <charlie-tca> * Packaging & Development

 22:02:32 <charlie-tca> * Bug Triage & Testing

 22:02:34 <charlie-tca> * Website & Marketing

 22:02:36 <charlie-tca> * Artwork

 22:02:38 <charlie-tca> * Documentation

 22:02:40 <charlie-tca> * Announcements

 22:02:42 <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

 22:02:44 <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

 22:02:52 <charlie-tca> and, in the interests of being common, we will try

 22:02:54 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 22:02:56 <charlie-tca> again

 22:03:19 <charlie-tca> [topic] === Old Business ===

 22:03:19 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Old Business ===

 22:03:44 <charlie-tca> * micahg to find what Ubuntu-desktop does with java in restricted-extras - Carried Forward

 22:03:50 <charlie-tca> any change?

 22:04:01 <micahg> nope

 22:04:18 <charlie-tca> this week?

 22:04:43 <charlie-tca> GridCube: go ahead and put together your best effort top 10, please

 22:04:51 <micahg> charlie-tca: yes

 22:05:14 <GridCube> :) ok will do it as soon as i get pass my exams

 22:05:15 <charlie-tca> [ACTION] GridCube to put together a top 10 FAQ for the website

 22:05:15 * meetingology GridCube to put together a top 10 FAQ for the website

 22:05:38 <charlie-tca> * start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Carried Forward

 22:05:39 <GridCube> (that be next week)

 22:05:49 <charlie-tca> any action of the reviews?

 22:06:04 <GridCube> charlie-tca, can i ask what "Carried Foward" means?

 22:06:25 <charlie-tca> means we did not do it yet

 22:06:33 <GridCube> oh, okay

 22:06:52 <charlie-tca> ochosi: go ahead and remove app finder from the launcher. Seems to be the only change I know of

 22:07:34 <charlie-tca> * All teams need to review website content - Carried Forward

 22:07:36 <charlie-tca> * insure http://xubuntu.org/contribute is up to date for each team

 22:07:38 <charlie-tca> * send updates to the xubuntu-devel mailing list

 22:07:40 <charlie-tca> * charlie-tca AT ubuntu DOT com

 22:07:42 <charlie-tca> * post them and give us the URL

 22:07:43 <ochosi> charlie-tca: what exactly do you mean?

 22:07:44 <charlie-tca> * submit a bug: https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website

 22:07:46 <charlie-tca> Have done all the reviews?

 22:08:11 <charlie-tca> you wanted a review of the launchers. Let's remove app finder from the launcher panel

 22:08:29 <ochosi> ah ok, well but you're aware of the fact that appfinder and xfrun will be merged?

 22:08:43 <ochosi> (or are already merged in fact iirc)

 22:08:44 <charlie-tca> I don't know if anyone else uses it, but I find snapshot to be most helpful in the panel

 22:09:01 <charlie-tca> what will that merge do?

 22:09:04 <ochosi> https://wiki.xfce.org/design/appfinder

 22:09:27 <charlie-tca> doesn't xfrun get run with Alt+F2?

 22:09:29 <ochosi> i know it's a bit of a long read

 22:09:36 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: what's snapshot? a screen capture app?

 22:09:41 <charlie-tca> yup

 22:09:48 <ochosi> yes, but now with alt+f2 you'll get something almost as cool as gnome-do

 22:10:06 <ochosi> you can start apps with autocomplete and you can expand the small launcher to get categories

 22:10:17 <charlie-tca> I have no idea what gnome-do is, so that didn't help

 22:10:26 <beardygnome> ochosi: that's coming in xfce 4.10 right?

 22:10:28 <ochosi> i already tried it here (think the separate git-branch recently got merged)

 22:10:38 <charlie-tca> how is that going to matter if application finder is in the launcher panel?

 22:10:57 <ochosi> beardygnome: well that's not really how xfce's release policy is working. they're doing individual components' releases now

 22:11:24 <beardygnome> so the merged app will be in 11.10?

 22:11:26 <ochosi> charlie-tca: it's just a bit of a different application now and i wanted to ask whether those doing the review where taking this into account, that's all

 22:11:33 <ochosi> beardygnome: that's what i'd assume

 22:12:08 <beardygnome> cool, i might then be able to ditch gnome-do....

 22:12:12 <charlie-tca> right now, to take a screenshot, you open Menu -> Accessories -> Screenshot. I find it much more convenient to click a launcher on my panels

 22:12:34 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: what about "Print Screen"?

 22:12:38 <charlie-tca> ochosi: you never sent the email to the ML for the review

 22:13:01 <charlie-tca> I can never remember the keypresses I want. I guess screenshot is fine the way it is

 22:13:15 <ochosi> charlie-tca: yeah sorry, forgot about that

 22:13:21 <charlie-tca> * start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Carried Forward

 22:13:33 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: "Print Screen" opens screenshot for me

 22:13:37 <charlie-tca> well, then we are doing the review, right/

 22:13:55 <beardygnome> which is quicker than a panel button imo

 22:14:18 <charlie-tca> without knowing all the ins and outs of the chagnes, and referring to something I never use, it is really hard to discuss intelligently.

 22:14:53 <charlie-tca> I do remember something about xfrun gonna be more like gnome-do, now. IT made as much sense then as it does now.

 22:15:06 <charlie-tca> without knowing gnome-do, that was a pretty worthless message to me

 22:15:30 <ochosi> charlie-tca: i don't mind if the majority thinks appfinder should be removed from there. i just wanted to let you know about the changes and if you (or those who are doing the review) want to know the details i guess it'd be best to read the wikipage i linked to

 22:15:35 <charlie-tca> any other changes we want to make to the panels?

 22:16:19 <charlie-tca> any questions so far?

 22:16:31 <charlie-tca> ochosi: sounds like it is all good

 22:16:38 <ochosi> k

 22:16:46 <charlie-tca> Has everyone reviewed the website?

 22:17:07 <GridCube> no, not really

 22:17:20 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: are there plans to add more news items?

 22:17:24 <charlie-tca> Let's get that done this week, please

 22:17:39 <charlie-tca> yes, if someone writes them, beardygnome

 22:18:07 <beardygnome> could we pull in news from xfce or ubuntu, for example?

 22:18:15 <charlie-tca> We would like all the content there now reviewed, to make sure it is up-to-date and pertinent

 22:18:47 <charlie-tca> We won't pull from Ubuntu, since that is alll on the planet feed already

 22:18:58 <charlie-tca> pleia2: around?

 22:19:05 <charlie-tca> knome: here?

 22:19:18 <GridCube> I wonder, would that "up to date" be LTS or 11.04?

 22:19:25 <charlie-tca> we will make a note to get an answer, beardygnome

 22:19:42 <charlie-tca> I think pulling from Xfce would be interesting, myself.

 22:19:49 <charlie-tca> both, GridCube

 22:20:05 <charlie-tca> They apply to different audiences, but both would be current

 22:20:06 <GridCube> ok

 22:20:16 <GridCube> that makes sense

 22:20:22 <Unit193> As has been noted, we need new screenshots for upgrades

 22:20:33 <GridCube> i still use 10.04

 22:20:42 <charlie-tca> Can anybody get us good screenshots?

 22:20:56 <charlie-tca> looking for a volunteer here...

 22:21:00 <GridCube> i can give you screenshot of 10.04 whit greybird

 22:21:04 <Unit193> I don't know about "good", but I can do one in a VM

 22:21:14 <ochosi> charlie-tca: what kind of screenshots do you want/need?

 22:21:14 <beardygnome> do they have to be stock xubuntu?

 22:21:27 <charlie-tca> yes, since that is the product

 22:21:54 <charlie-tca> ochosi: replace bluebird on the website?

 22:22:01 <GridCube> oh, whats the "stock" theme for 10.04?

 22:22:11 <GridCube> albatros?

 22:22:12 <ochosi> charlie-tca: where exactly?

 22:22:12 <charlie-tca> I don't know

 22:22:24 <charlie-tca> where ever pleia2 wants them

 22:22:32 <ochosi> hm, i think i already did that tbh

 22:22:39 <ochosi> greybird is on the front-page and the tour

 22:22:50 <ochosi> those are the screenshots that pleia2 requested back then

 22:22:51 <GridCube> i can do a few screenshots of 10.04 whit standard themes, and whit up to date greybird too

 22:22:56 <beardygnome> I could do some screenshots from a vm, but my installs are pretty customised

 22:23:33 <charlie-tca> Unit193: any idea?

 22:23:44 <ochosi> i just looked through the website a bit and i can

 22:23:51 <ochosi> 't find any not up-to-date screenshots

 22:24:11 <beardygnome> do you want comments to the ML?

 22:24:15 <charlie-tca> I think they removed a few, because they were so out of date, but I tend to stay away

 22:24:19 <charlie-tca> beardygnome: for?

 22:24:24 <charlie-tca> yes

 22:24:28 <beardygnome> the website?

 22:24:43 <Unit193> charlie-tca: http://xubuntu.org/getubuntu will tell you how to upgrade with old screenshots

 22:24:44 <charlie-tca> as posted above, I will put the ways to send comments in the minutes, too

 22:25:05 <charlie-tca> GridCube: apparently, not 10.04

 22:25:22 <charlie-tca> ochosi: note Unit193's comment?

 22:25:26 <ochosi> Unit193: hm, true. yeah i guess those should be replaced (even if it's not a usability isse)

 22:25:31 <GridCube> as said i can screenshot the update manager asking me to update to 10.10

 22:25:46 <charlie-tca> It does reflect on the project, overall, though.

 22:26:09 <Unit193> If you want 10.10 > 11.04, I can install it in a VM

 22:26:48 <charlie-tca> I think 10.10 to 11.04, since that is the current release

 22:27:06 <charlie-tca> or shoot both and let pleia2 decide what to use

 22:27:24 <charlie-tca> [ACTION] GridCube and Unit193 to get screenshots for the website

 22:27:24 * meetingology GridCube and Unit193 to get screenshots for the website

 22:27:41 <GridCube> oh, also im on a spa√±ish setup :/ don't know if that changes things

 22:27:48 <charlie-tca> only the words

 22:27:58 <GridCube> oh, well then i will do it

 22:28:33 <charlie-tca> Any other discussion / questions on anything covered so far?

 22:28:34 <Unit193> Bug #784158

 22:28:36 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 784158 in Xubuntu Website "xubuntu.org/getubuntu has old screenshots" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/784158

 22:28:59 <GridCube> i want to ask something to ochosi regerding the themes

 22:29:20 <charlie-tca> old business or new?

 22:29:25 <GridCube> new

 22:29:34 <charlie-tca> let's hold it for artwork then, okay?

 22:29:37 <GridCube> ok

 22:29:56 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Team updates ===

 22:29:56 <meetingology> TOPIC: === Team updates ===

 22:30:08 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Packaging and Development

 22:30:08 <meetingology> TOPIC: Packaging and Development

 22:30:15 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: your turn, please

 22:30:29 <mr_pouit> eh, so nothing new this week

 22:30:44 <GridCube> o/

 22:30:45 <mr_pouit> waiting on some uploads to happen (x11-common)

 22:30:52 <charlie-tca> GridCube: go ahead

 22:31:07 <GridCube> can we change gimp to something smaller/simplier?

 22:31:13 <mr_pouit> (merge of the newer xfce4-indicator-plugin release that fixes transparency in progress)

 22:31:44 <charlie-tca> That's important!

 22:31:48 <ochosi> mr_pouit: i'm also looking forward to the new session-menu/action-buttons merge

 22:32:12 <charlie-tca> GridCube: you can send that one to the mailing list with suggestions as to what to use?

 22:32:23 <GridCube> oh okay

 22:32:33 <GridCube> i propose gnu paint

 22:33:07 <charlie-tca> ML - SUBJECT possible change from gimp

 22:33:16 <GridCube> :)

 22:33:24 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: go ahead

 22:34:37 <mr_pouit> sorry, that's all :p

 22:35:03 <charlie-tca> I will say thank you to both micahg and mr_pouit for all their work getting Oneiric together.

 22:35:13 <charlie-tca> This is going to a fun ride...

 22:35:14 <GridCube> :D i second

 22:35:46 <micahg> mr_pouit: well, we're down to 1 rdepend on libnotify1, which should get sorted this week (transmission -> 2.32)

 22:36:01 <charlie-tca> Thank you, mr_pouit.

 22:36:10 <charlie-tca> any questions for development?

 22:36:46 <mr_pouit> micahg: yay :)

 22:37:18 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Bug Triage & Testing

 22:37:18 <meetingology> TOPIC: Bug Triage & Testing

 22:37:33 <charlie-tca> Testing had a bad week, since there were images until Thursday

 22:37:51 <charlie-tca> We will try to pick up again this week

 22:38:38 <charlie-tca> I am going to skip Website and Marketing for now

 22:38:44 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Artwork

 22:38:44 <meetingology> TOPIC: Artwork

 22:38:55 <charlie-tca> ochosi: your the person!

 22:38:55 <ochosi> hmkay, guess it's my turn

 22:39:05 <ochosi> last week was pretty productive

 22:39:13 <ochosi> i tackled a few things on my todo-list

 22:39:17 <ochosi> mostly window-manager related

 22:39:44 <ochosi> * finished the compact xfwm4 theme (good as alternative for netbooks etc., 18px height instead of 24px)

 22:40:01 <ochosi> * added full support for compiz (emerald and metacity themes)

 22:40:23 <ochosi> i also looked into gtk3 again in oneiric, have a working install here now. but tbh it's still pretty much a mess

 22:40:34 <ochosi> the unico engine seems unfinished and buggy

 22:40:47 <ochosi> i guess i'll postpone doing a real gtk3 port of greybird to some later stage

 22:41:08 <charlie-tca> ochosi: nice news post

 22:41:17 <GridCube> :D very nice indeed

 22:41:33 <ochosi> i also wrote a short blog article on shimmerproject.org

 22:41:51 <ochosi> if xubuntu.org gets easier to handle i can crosspost those kinds of articles there as well

 22:42:08 <charlie-tca> We still have hopes

 22:42:13 <ochosi> :)

 22:42:16 <micahg> ochosi: keep in mind that ideally for release, we should have a GTK3 theme so that we have a uniform look for all the apps (GTK2 & GTK3)

 22:42:35 <ochosi> micahg: it's hard to not keep that in mind if you're really testing oneiric

 22:42:37 <charlie-tca> Will we have to ship two themes, then?

 22:42:50 <ochosi> charlie-tca: no, it'll all be in the greybird-folder/package

 22:43:04 <charlie-tca> we are washing out some of the plugins in the panel, now

 22:43:06 <micahg> charlie-tca: no, the desktop team has a gateway that can use a GTK3 theme in GTK2

 22:43:13 <ochosi> charlie-tca: but on a technical level, yes, it will be two different themes (doubling the maintenance work for me :( )

 22:43:16 <charlie-tca> timer, clipman

 22:43:21 <micahg> ochosi: no, it shouldn't

 22:43:32 <ochosi> micahg: a gateway?

 22:43:39 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: washing out?

 22:43:39 * micahg forgets what it's called

 22:43:50 <charlie-tca> making them invisible again, beardygnome

 22:44:01 <micahg> ochosi: some type of theme proxy

 22:44:14 <ochosi> micahg: well, let me know about this, it sounds interesting (but also a bit scary)

 22:44:16 <beardygnome> so they appear in the indicator plugin instead?

 22:44:26 <ochosi> micahg: can't really imagine something like this will 100% work

 22:44:29 <charlie-tca> they don't appear, just take up space

 22:44:53 <charlie-tca> ochosi: I did see something on that. I just don't remember where

 22:44:55 <micahg> ochosi: well, the desktop team needed it since not everything will be ported to GTK3

 22:45:15 <ochosi> micahg: but they have a working gtk2 theme which they're porting to gtk3, so they can easily ship both

 22:45:38 <micahg> ochosi: the plan is to have 1 GTK3 that GTK2&3 apps use last I checked

 22:46:03 <ochosi> micahg: ok, interesting. i can ask luca about that. at the moment they're still shipping both

 22:46:12 <charlie-tca> We are keeping in mind that we are staying in gtk2 for this release, right?

 22:46:29 <micahg> yes, but some of the shared desktop apps will be GTK3

 22:47:48 <ochosi> tbh if i have a working gtk2 theme and i port it to gtk3 i won't drop the working gtk2 theme for some "proxy"-solution, at least not in the short run

 22:48:02 <ochosi> it'll hardly look the same anyway

 22:48:03 <charlie-tca> Thank you

 22:48:10 <micahg> ochosi: it should look the same, that's the goal

 22:48:44 <ochosi> micahg: well unless it uses the pixmap engine it's hard to believe for me, but i'm open for good surprises ;)

 22:49:05 <ochosi> but anyway, if anyone hears any details on this, please let me know

 22:49:18 <charlie-tca> okay, can we move on and discuss this when we get actual references to look at?

 22:49:32 <charlie-tca> GridCube: did you have a question about art?

 22:49:37 <GridCube> My question was this, can't themes be added to a ppa so when an update to the theme is done we can see it on the update manager?

 22:50:32 <charlie-tca> ochosi: ??

 22:50:51 <ochosi> sry, i'm back

 22:50:56 <charlie-tca> is it a lot of work adding themes to the ppa?

 22:51:13 <ochosi> yeah, well actually this is planned already

 22:51:18 <ochosi> mr_pouit ^ ;)

 22:51:26 <GridCube> :D oh okay

 22:51:33 <ochosi> it seems we just haven't gotten round to it

 22:51:49 <GridCube> and then what about my whislist bug 800918

 22:51:50 <ochosi> and when i say "we", i mean the "royal we" (== mr_pouit)

 22:51:50 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 800918 in xubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "Some wallpaper/backdrops ideas" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/800918

 22:52:18 <charlie-tca> We need to add these kind of bugs to the bug list

 22:52:43 <ochosi> GridCube: i read and second that bugreport, but i think it should be done upstream or at least in coop with upstream

 22:52:53 <ochosi> GridCube: and it needs a coder :) (which i am not)

 22:53:08 <charlie-tca> Any bugs we want to be able to track easy, regardless of priority can be added to

 22:53:10 <charlie-tca> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

 22:53:32 <GridCube> :D well i just wanted to bring that up again

 22:53:44 <ochosi> k, one last word on artwork, then i'm done:

 22:53:47 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit has been busy just trying to get us sessions working

 22:53:57 <charlie-tca> ..

 22:54:37 <ochosi> it's possible that the gtk-theme will change again slightly as soon as i start to work seriously on the gtk3 port. in my opinion it's really important that they look the same, so it's possible i need to change some things again

 22:54:50 <ochosi> so please be open for discussion and friendly about it ;)

 22:56:14 <charlie-tca> (..) ??

 22:56:18 <GridCube> :)

 22:56:31 <ochosi> that's it. that's all :)

 22:56:42 <charlie-tca> Thank you, ochosi

 22:56:54 <charlie-tca> You have been very busy this last week!

 22:57:10 <charlie-tca> Any other questions for Artwork?

 22:57:28 <GridCube> not from me

 22:57:38 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC]

 22:57:38 <meetingology> TOPIC:

 22:57:44 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

 22:57:44 <meetingology> TOPIC: Announcements

 22:58:03 <charlie-tca> I have a feew things here, so I will try to go too fast

 22:58:22 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Sunday, 2011-07-25 at 19:00 UTC

 22:58:24 <charlie-tca> * Important dates coming up:

 22:58:39 <charlie-tca> * 10.04.3 Release: July 21, 2011

 22:58:53 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Alpha 3: August 4, 2011

 22:59:07 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011

 22:59:10 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: shouldn't the next meeting be on a monday?

 22:59:23 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 22:59:31 <beardygnome> i thought we were alternating?

 22:59:40 <micahg> 7-25 is a monday :)

 22:59:42 <charlie-tca> That is monday

 23:00:13 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-07-25 at 19:00 UTC

 23:00:17 <charlie-tca> * UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.

 23:00:19 <charlie-tca> * UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

 23:00:48 <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

 23:00:48 <meetingology> TOPIC: Any Other Business

 23:01:07 <charlie-tca> This is the chance to bring up all the stuff we haven't brought up yet :)

 23:01:25 <GridCube> again, nothing from me

 23:01:38 <micahg> is Firefox 6 in oneiric interesting?

 23:01:41 <charlie-tca> I am seeing a rather disturbing thing happening in #xubuntu

 23:01:45 <charlie-tca> sure, micahg

 23:02:05 <micahg> beta 1 is in, beta 2 should get in next week

 23:02:08 <micahg> s/next/this/

 23:02:12 <GridCube> whats whit firefox numbering?

 23:02:26 <ochosi> charlie-tca: what are you seeing in #xubuntu?

 23:02:33 <charlie-tca> too many are now receiving answers of "I don't use Xubuntu, and can't really help with that"

 23:02:47 <micahg> GridCube: similar versioning to Chromium, major bump every 6 weeks

 23:02:55 <charlie-tca> If a user is coming to #xubuntu, they should expect to get xubuntu support.

 23:03:03 <micahg> charlie-tca: why are those people idling in #xubuntu then?

 23:03:12 <charlie-tca> any suggestions how to deal with this, other than flat out banning those users?

 23:03:24 <GridCube> yes i've seen that once or twice

 23:03:25 <charlie-tca> I am wondering the same things

 23:03:28 <beardygnome> o/

 23:03:34 <charlie-tca> go ahead

 23:03:39 <charlie-tca> beardygnome:

 23:03:47 <beardygnome> whenever some says that, we could ask them why they are in the channel

 23:04:13 <beardygnome> and suggest to them that it is not helpful to other users to state that they can't help

 23:04:21 <charlie-tca> good suggestion

 23:04:33 <beardygnome> they *may* have a valid reason for idling in the room

 23:04:35 <ochosi> charlie-tca: you could add a bot-action for that

 23:04:42 <charlie-tca> I would like to see the channel ops watching for that, also

 23:04:42 <ochosi> that would make it easier ;)

 23:04:45 <GridCube> yes we could have an ubottu responce for that too

 23:04:51 <charlie-tca> good idea

 23:05:11 <beardygnome> they shouldn't get involved if they have nothing to add

 23:05:30 <GridCube> something like "if you are not an xubuntu user, please don't advertise it on this channel"?

 23:05:33 <charlie-tca> let's add one, since those users seem to speak up often now

 23:06:10 <charlie-tca> more like "Please do not disrupt the channel with off-topic subjects. If you are using Xubuntu, you are not helping this user." ?

 23:06:50 <charlie-tca> I don't really know how to word it, but I think it is quite serious.

 23:06:53 <GridCube> >if you are *not* using

 23:07:14 <GridCube> i agree charlie-tca

 23:07:16 <charlie-tca> well, yeah, *not*

 23:07:17 <beardygnome> +1

 23:08:02 <charlie-tca> Okay, name for that?

 23:08:10 <charlie-tca> maybe ! notxubuntu?

 23:08:23 <GridCube> maybe !nothelping

 23:08:32 <GridCube> because they are not

 23:08:33 <charlie-tca> sure, I like that

 23:08:36 <beardygnome> +1

 23:08:45 <charlie-tca> anyone else?

 23:09:19 <GridCube> nope

 23:09:19 <ochosi> yeah, just don't make it a very strong suggestion to shut up

 23:09:46 <charlie-tca> well, it gets them banned in #ubuntu

 23:10:04 <charlie-tca> !topic

 23:10:04 <ubottu> Please read the channel topic whenever you enter, as it contains important information. To view it at any time after joining, simply type /topic

 23:10:14 <charlie-tca> I can't remember what it is now

 23:10:23 <charlie-tca> !offtopic

 23:10:23 <ubottu> #xubuntu is the Xubuntu support channel, #xubuntu-devel for discussion regarding development of Xubuntu, and #xubuntu-offtopic is for random chatter. Welcome!

 23:10:42 <charlie-tca> anyway, are we okay with the suggestion, then?

 23:10:55 <beardygnome> i am

 23:11:09 <charlie-tca> if they continue, I suggesting calling ops and having them removed for offtopic discussions, myself.

 23:12:07 <charlie-tca> Okay, then. Any other discussions?

 23:12:36 <charlie-tca> Thanks for attending the meeting.

 23:12:44 <GridCube> :) thank you

 23:12:51 <charlie-tca> Your inputs are always welcome, whether in person or by email

 23:12:57 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.4 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell)
