{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for February 2009'''

===== Artwork =====
* Preliminary ideas for Jaunty artwork.

===== Bug Triage =====
* Fixed the pages on the Xubuntu wiki for Bugs-Triage; made sure they agree with QA bugsquad pages.
* Triaged a good number of bugs, some of the Xubuntu bugsquad participated in the Global Bug Jam, which was a big success.
* Got many bugs fixed thanks to the successful upload of !AbiWord 2.6.6 and Xfce 4.6 RC1.

===== Community =====
* Following the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Grow the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki> -specification.

===== Documentation =====
* Jim and Pasi are working to make Yelp look more Xubuntuish on Xubuntu.
* Jim has been integrating updates from Ubuntu documentation into Xubuntu docs, and is finding the merge process helpful in fixing bugs and incorporating info about new features.
* Much of the Xubuntu-specific documentation still needs to be written, but some of it can be adapted from previous versions of Xubuntu docs.
* Jim will be filing bugs against problem areas to help direct people to areas where they can pitch-in during a Xubuntu-doc hug day.

===== Marketing =====
* Committed a patch to website which fixes layout problems on Internet Explorer. (This patch is pending an RT ticket.)
* Following the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Roadmap-Specifications-Jaunty-GrowXubuntuCommunity|Grow the Xubuntu Community]]</nowiki> -specification.

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Released Alpha 4
* Uploaded all of Xfce 4.6 RC1 (Big Thanks to Lionel, Michael, Jeromeg, and the Debian Xfce Team).
* Moved all our packages into bazaar branches and setup a number of imports for Xfce components.
* Jeromeg uploaded xfce-switch-plugin (a user session switcher applet).
* Lionel uploaded a new version of gigolo (formerly known as Sion).
* Mario patched xfce4-session to not show the tips screen on first log in.
* Jeromeg uploaded xfce4-power-manager.
* Nathan Handler (nhandler) has been working with the samba browser patch for Thunar.
