{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 05 Jan at 22:00 &mdash; 22:44 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-01-05-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:01.

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 22:03.

** Received 20 bundles of stickers and Xubuntu stickers from unixstickers.com
** We should have xfce4-panel, xfce4-indicator-plugin, and thunar updates landing soon, new releases from Xfce.
** 14/300 iso tests done in last 30 days

==== Discussion items ====
The discussion about "Discussion items" started at 22:05.

* '''Discuss replacing gnome-calculator with galculator''' (22:06)
* '''Alpha2 or ignore and just work with Beta's and Final?''' (22:08)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to talk with dev people about releasing/not releasing a2
* '''We have stickers for QA contributors! Next step?''' (22:18)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy Add proposed schedule to incentive pad

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 22:39.

** More gtk3.14 theming fixes are about to come to greybird and numix in the near future
** Community council catch-up is on the 15th, at 17utc.

=== Action items, by person ===

** elfy to talk with dev people about releasing/not releasing a2
** elfy Add proposed schedule to incentive pad

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (58)
* elfy (50)
* Unit193 (42)
* pleia2 (35)
* ochosi (25)
* meetingology (6)
* ubottu (1)
