{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 21 Aug at 10:00 &mdash; 10:42 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-08-21-10.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 10:01.

** ''DONE:'' Unit193 to split up the xubuntu-core work item on the blueprint to be able to track the progress better

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 10:04.

** Catfish 1.3.0 and MenuLibre 2.1.0 uploaded to wily
** libreoffice-style-elementary 0.2 included in xubuntu-artwork 15.10.3 uploaded to wily
** new shimmer-themes release pending upload to wily, includes fixes for GtkHeaderBars
** Image testing is much as normal - basic smoketesting going on
** no idea what's going on in package world
** work on getting blueman 2.0 into wily started moving along, but will now require a FFe
** milestone testing next week (hopefully)
** testing for catfish and menulibre in plan
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant set up catfish/menulibre testing
** xfpanel-switch uploaded prior to feature freeze, pending archive admin approval
** balloons is looking at hardware options for the automated image testing stuff, running tests on nested cloud VMs was negative
** libreoffice-style-elementary included in wily and is default. We also currently have libreoffice-style-human on the iso, working on shipping only the former

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 10:15.

** Beta 1 Freeze on Monday, Beta 1 on Thursday
** User Interface Freeze on September 10
** remember to keep your work items up to date

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 10:19.

* '''Beta 1 milestone''' (10:19)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/ReleaseTaskSignup 
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant Mail dev re B1 testing
** ''ACTION:'' Xubuntu Release/QA teams to try and move testers along if needed
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant mail -release re Beta 1
* '''Package testing''' (10:28)
** ''ACTION:'' knome and flocculant to work out exploratory bugs on tracker

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 10:42.

** slickymaster is to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* flocculant
** flocculant set up catfish/menulibre testing
** flocculant Mail dev re B1 testing
** flocculant mail -release re Beta 1
** knome and flocculant to work out exploratory bugs on tracker
* knome
** knome and flocculant to work out exploratory bugs on tracker

=== Done items ===

* Unit193 to split up the xubuntu-core work item on the blueprint to be able to track the progress better

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (84)
* knome (60)
* bluesabre (51)
* ochosi (23)
* meetingology (8)
* dkessel (4)
* Unit193 (2)
* ubottu (1)
