{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 10 Apr at 17:30 &mdash; 18:20 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-04-10-17.30.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 17:35.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 17:36.

** The non-language pack translation deadline was Thursday April 8, so no more translations for our apps
** "The small details" and "My media manager" article series' are doing well
** the wallpaper contest has concluded and the winners have been chosen. A new xubuntu-community-artwork package will be uploaded today with the new wallpapers
** Final Freeze and RC are just 4 days away

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 17:46.

* '''PDF in docs''' (17:46)
* '''core situation''' (17:50)
* '''Seeding Snappy''' (17:53)
* '''Release Candidate''' (17:59)

==== Any other business ====
The discussion about "Any other business" started at 18:09.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 18:20.

** knome to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (96)
* flocculant (45)
* pleia2 (23)
* slickymaster (18)
* ochosi (15)
* Nairwolf (11)
* meetingology (4)
