{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 20 May at 20:31 &mdash; 21:49 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-05-20-20.31.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 20:33.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 20:34.

** ochosi has started porting xfce4-clipman-plugin and gaston has ported some other small plugins to gtk3
** all images currently fail with ubi-console error - though can be installed if ignored
** knome has been working on a new tracker where all work items are tracked internally (eg. not in LP) - mails will follow when it's ready enough for others to test and evaluate whether we want to use that
** tracker now shows (more or less) a daily +/- on whether our image boots at least
** ochosi looked at what would be necessary for gtk3.20 support for greybird, and it's basically a rewrite (even though ubuntu doesn't seem to be likely to upgrade gtk3 this cycle as they're still looking for a new larsu, i'd rather get a head-start on this as soon as i can)
** unlikely that QA will run IRC sessions unless they get more positivity about them
** ''LINK:'' https://git.launchpad.net/~davmor2/+git/iso-updater/tree/update.py 
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi will see whether he can come up with ways to automate the ISO installing with jenkins

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 20:45.

* '''Xubuntu Council''' (20:46)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2016-May/011167.html 
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a reminder mail to reply to the council proposal within a week
** ''ACTION:'' knome to initialize voting on the council proposal on devel ML (week from now)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to send mail to micah and jackson about their membership and the upcoming council vote
* '''User Team Lead''' (21:10)
* '''Thunar''' (21:21)
* '''Cursor bug''' (21:28)
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/1568604 
* '''Back to User Team Lead''' (21:34)
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-user-team-proposal 

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 21:48.

** Debian Liaison Unit193 to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to send a reminder mail to reply to the council proposal within a week
** knome to initialize voting on the council proposal on devel ML (week from now)
* ochosi
** ochosi will see whether he can come up with ways to automate the ISO installing with jenkins
** ochosi to send mail to micah and jackson about their membership and the upcoming council vote

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (169)
* knome (154)
* ochosi (116)
* pleia2 (30)
* slickymaster (21)
* meetingology (11)
* Unit193 (6)
* ubottu (3)
* aaronraimist (1)
