{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 06 Feb at 19:02 &mdash; 19:44 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-02-06-19.02.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 19:02.

** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** ''ACTION:'' knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-qa to make sure there is a blueman testcase
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to do merge proposals for "X performs Y" styled listings for the docs

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:09.

** slickymaster has finished porting the Mugshot documentation into the Xubuntu docs
** slickymaster started to work on porting the Xfdesktop documentation into Xubuntu docs
** Docs team held a Trusty meeting and assignments were handed out
** xubuntu-qa Package testing - Settings Manager - mandatory testing +2, run-once and optional +1
** xubuntu-qa 12.04.4 32bit/ Live 4 tests, Alt 5 test
** xubuntu-qa 12.04.4 64bit/ Live 6 tests, Alt 6 tests
** xubuntu-qa Trusty Daily 32 bit 11 tests
** xubuntu-qa Trusty Daily 64 bit 18 tests
** xubuntu-qa XFCE Core Package testing due next week
** xubuntu-qa light-locker has seen testing now
** Kudos to knome and bluesabre for getting the SRU Docs update through all the hurdles
** elfy Blueman added to Network Testsuite
** knome and pleia2 helped startubuntu create some xubuntu-branded versions of "xp to *buntu*" flyers
** the flyers were widely shared on social media and pleia2 is printing some up for an upcoming conference
** ''LINK:'' http://xubuntu.org/marketingresources/ 
** site updated to link to several language variations on spreadubuntu.org
** got pavucontrol merged into indicator-sound as an alternate recommends to the control centers, so we shouldn't be pulling them in because of that at least.

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:21.

** 12.04.4 will be released any minute!
** With knome's help, jjfrv8 received approval for ~ubuntu-core-doc membership
** Debian Import Freeze is today
** Feature Freeze is in 2 weeks
** Beta 1 is in 3 weeks, freeze in the first half of that week

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 19:24.

** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Processes#Release_Cycle 
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to add process-related tasks as events in the xubuntu team calendar
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj to ping elfy re weather plugin
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to look at Noskcaj's MOTU application
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj to poke the SRU team about the weather plugin

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 19:44.

** Next meeting Thu, Feb 13 at 19UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
* elfy
** Noskcaj to ping elfy re weather plugin
* knome
** knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
* micahg
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** micahg to look at Noskcaj's MOTU application
* Noskcaj
** Noskcaj to ping elfy re weather plugin
** micahg to look at Noskcaj's MOTU application
** Noskcaj to poke the SRU team about the weather plugin
* pleia2
** pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned
* Unit193
** Unit193 to do merge proposals for "X performs Y" styled listings for the docs
** Unit193 to add process-related tasks as events in the xubuntu team calendar
* xubuntu-qa
** xubuntu-qa to make sure there is a blueman testcase

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (101)
* elfy (21)
* pleia2 (19)
* meetingology (16)
* slickymaster (9)
* Unit193 (9)
* Noskcaj (9)
* ali1234 (7)
* micahg-work (4)
* jjfrv8-work (3)
* schproodle (2)
* xubuntu-qa (0)
* micahg (0)
