{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
WORK IN PROGRESS
</pre>

== Xubuntu 6.06 Beta ==

The Xubuntu team is proud to present the beta release of Xubuntu 6.06 (Dapper Drake). With Xubuntu 6.06 Beta comes additional Look-and-Feel improvements, Live-CD installer enhancements, XFCE 4.3.0 final, and much more.

'''Note: This is still a beta release. Do not install it on production machines. The final stable version will be released in June of 2006. '''

== Introduction ==

== Bugs That Have Left The Building ==

== New Installation Menu ==

== New LiveCD ==

== XFCE 4.3.0 ==

== Download Xubuntu 6.06 Beta ==

Get it while it's hot. ISOs and torrents are available at:

 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/dapper/flight-7/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/dapper/flight-7/ (Ubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/releases/dapper/flight-7/ (Ubuntu Server) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/dapper/flight-7/ (Kubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/dapper/flight-7/ (Edubuntu)

== Participate in Xubuntu ==

If you would like to help shape Xubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://wiki.Xubuntu.com/HelpingUbuntu

Some things you can do to help Xubuntu right now are to simply download the CD (links above), perform some basic testing, and report bugs when you find them.

=== Testing ===

If you plan to do an installation of Dapper Flight 6, be sure to head to '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing|Testing]]</nowiki>'''. With just a few minutes of time at your hands, you can really help to improve Ubuntu. We have two different tests; one takes just a short while, but the other is more thorough.

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Current|Testing/Current]]</nowiki> - Simply note how your installation went
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Short|Testing/Short]]</nowiki> - the short test
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Long|Testing/Long]]</nowiki> - the longer test

=== Reporting Bugs ===

Your comments, bug reports, patches, and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs through Launchpad's Bug tracker Malone:

 https://launchpad.net/malone/distros/ubuntu

== More Information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our website, IRC channel, and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please visit:

 http://www.xubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

== Additional Resources ==

Here are some additional resources discussing current Xubuntu 6.06 and GNOME 2.14 developments.

=== Previous Flight (Alpha Release) Tours ===
* <nowiki>[[testing-flight6|Dapper Flight 6]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[testing-flight5|Dapper Flight 5]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[testing-flight4|Dapper Flight 4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[testing-flight3|Dapper Flight 3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[testing-flight2|Dapper Flight 2]]</nowiki>

----
This document is maintained by the Ubuntu Documentation Team. Please feel free to contact us regarding any concerns or suggestions by either sending an email to <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com|ubuntu-doc@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> or by using any of the other methods on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Contact|Ubuntu Documentation Team Contact Information Page]]</nowiki>.
