{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-10-03 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

* verify top 10 FAQ and check help links in 10
* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter - Postponed until LTS
* drop ristretto if it can not do what we need to photos - Carried Forward to LTS
** Consumes too much memory bug has been fixed
* activate the "maybe-ubiquity" option for LTS - Carried Forward

* updated the seed for blueman
* We now have most of the updates from Xfce for the translations too

* Thank you very much to all the testers
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

* The wordpress site has been approved. We are now in the process of converting http://xubuntu.org from drupal to wordpress
** knome is working on moving content over to the testing site we have now
* We need to be telling people they can submit articles anytime they want.
* add a reviews section of the site where we link to reviews

* For those using greybird in Oneiric, you might have noticed some small changes, in the scrollbars and panels.
* These are to help with those of us that can't see so good anymore, and have less than perfect mouse control

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

* The next meeting will be on Sunday, October 23, 2011 at 22:00 UTC.
** This will be the meeting to elect a new project leader.
* Important dates coming up:
* We are now in UI Freeze and Beta2 Freeze; archives will remain frozen until final release.
* 11.10 Final Freeze: September 29
* Final candidate testing starts on October 10
* 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
* https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-users is for those new to Xubuntu. Please join this team if you are contributing or using Xubuntu. This is the group that will elect the next project leader.
 

* Blueprints
** We should blueprint at least for default applications and have one uds session for default apps
** it would eliminate the time gap we have now deciding what is going to stay and what is going to change
** This could be a single blueprint; specifying goals for Xubuntu for the release cycle

* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-09-25 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* I do want to thank everyone who has helped to make Xubuntu 11.10 successful! Your hard work has made this a really good, usable release for our users.

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure
* https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-users is for those new to Xubuntu. Please join this team if you are contributing or using Xubuntu. This is the group that will elect the next project leader.

* Nominations for project lead are now open.
** Those wishing to nominate themselves or others should do so by email to either mailing list, or myself (charlie-tca@ubuntu.com).
** Nominations will close October 20, 2011, and the community election will be held at the meeting on October 23, 2011. If there are issues with this, please let us know between now and October 20.
** <GridCube> Can I propose you to Project Leader charlie-tca? not because you just are the current one, but because i think you are doing a pretty good job at it, and I think that thats good :D
** https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-users is for those new to Xubuntu. Please join this team if you are contributing or using Xubuntu. This is the group that will elect the next project leader.
 
==== Action items ====

* madnick to test blueman in ppa:micahg/patch-test

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-09-25 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/10/03/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Meeting ended Sun Sep 25 22:48:06 2011 UTC.
Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-10-03-19.02.moin.txt
[AKA] http://tinyurl.com/3ortg3y (ubottu.com)

Minutes:

=== People present (lines said) ===

* charlie-tca (105)
* micahg (19)
* pleia2 (7)
* beardygnome (6)
* madnick (5)
* meetingology` (4)
* touchpad (3)
* zus (1)
* ubottu (1)
* plantoschka (1)

=== Full Log ===

 19:02:30 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting Xubuntu

 19:02:30 <meetingology`> Meeting started Mon Oct  3 19:02:30 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 19:02:30 <meetingology`> 

 19:02:30 <meetingology`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 19:02:36 <charlie-tca> Okay, thanks, micahg

 19:02:55 <charlie-tca> #meetingname Xubuntu Community Meeting

 19:02:55 <meetingology`> The meeting name has been set to 'xubuntu_community_meeting'

 19:03:09 <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 19:03:11 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 19:03:43 <charlie-tca> Would everyone here for this meeting please wave, say hello, or something. This lets the meeting bot record those present

 19:03:50 <madnick> \:D/

 19:03:51 <charlie-tca> o/

 19:04:04 <micahg> o/

 19:04:06 <beardygnome> o/

 19:04:10 <touchpad> o/

 19:04:23 <charlie-tca> Welcome, touchpad

 19:04:27 <touchpad> ty

 19:04:31 <charlie-tca> Is this your first meeting with us?

 19:04:35 <touchpad> yes

 19:04:45 <charlie-tca> #topic === Old Business ===

 19:05:02 <charlie-tca> * madnick to test blueman in ppa:micahg/patch-test - Done

 19:05:33 <charlie-tca> I have to say, blueman developers are very response to bugs at this time.

 19:05:35 <charlie-tca> * verify top 10 FAQ and check help links in 10

 19:05:44 <charlie-tca> Has anyone verified these yet?

 19:06:23 <charlie-tca> * docs need a version bump (s/11.04/11.10)

 19:06:29 <charlie-tca> This is done, also

 19:07:05 <charlie-tca> Okay, that is all the old business I can remember

 19:07:10 <charlie-tca> #topic === Team updates ===

 19:07:23 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Packaging & Development ====

 19:07:29 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: are you available?

 19:08:58 <charlie-tca> micahg: are you available for this update?

 19:09:08 <micahg> I guess so

 19:09:23 <charlie-tca> It's all yours

 19:09:28 <micahg> mr_pouit updated the seed for blueman after I got the updated version in

 19:09:48 <micahg> charlie-tca mentioned we might need to drop a langpack for amd64 live

 19:09:59 <charlie-tca> alternate

 19:10:11 <micahg> charlie-tca: live according to cdimage.u.c

 19:10:22 <micahg> right, you said alternate, but it's actually live

 19:10:50 <micahg> blueman had a couple bugs I"ll try to look at tonight or tomorrow

 19:10:52 <charlie-tca> sorry

 19:11:00 <micahg> charlie-tca: not a problem :)

 19:11:38 <micahg> I'm not aware of any other updates needed before release, please let mr_pouit or I know if you see something we overlooked

 19:11:47 <micahg> ..

 19:12:45 <charlie-tca> bug 437883 which is blueman crashing on login has a fix committed in bzr

 19:12:46 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 437883 in blueman (Ubuntu) "blueman-applet crashed with DBusException in call_blocking()" [High,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/437883

 19:13:00 <charlie-tca> Thank you very much, micahg

 19:13:30 <charlie-tca> We now have most of the updates from Xfce for the translations too

 19:13:38 <micahg> charlie-tca: I guess I need to pull a new upstream blueman snapshot

 19:13:52 <charlie-tca> yup

 19:14:15 <micahg> maybe I"ll cherry pick the commit

 19:14:17 <charlie-tca> This week is mostly bug fixing, so we should not see massive changes any more in Oneiric

 19:14:27 <micahg> I'd rather not pull in extraneous changes at this point

 19:14:28 <charlie-tca> That would work too

 19:14:39 <charlie-tca> Yes, the less the better now

 19:15:12 <charlie-tca> Any questions for packaging and development?

 19:15:46 <micahg> charlie-tca: any other ones like that that I should pull in?

 19:15:54 <charlie-tca> None that I know of

 19:16:05 <micahg> ok

 19:16:09 <charlie-tca> That's the only fix I have seen that we haven't gotten yet

 19:16:23 <micahg> charlie-tca: can I give you the package to test later?

 19:16:38 <charlie-tca> Sure, I can test it

 19:16:42 <micahg> thanks

 19:16:49 <charlie-tca> I can't test blueman, but I can test for the crash

 19:17:00 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 19:17:09 <charlie-tca> We have done great testing our images!

 19:17:17 <charlie-tca> Thank you very much to all the testers

 19:17:32 <charlie-tca> This is the last week we test oneiric daily

 19:18:28 <charlie-tca> Most of the critical for Xubuntu bugs have been fixed, and keeping them at We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot has been a big help.

 19:18:40 <charlie-tca> Any questions for testing?

 19:18:55 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Website & Marketing ====

 19:19:03 <charlie-tca> pleia2: are you available?

 19:19:36 <charlie-tca> knome: any update on the website?

 19:19:42 <pleia2> hi

 19:19:50 <charlie-tca> Hello, pleia2

 19:19:55 <charlie-tca> Any update today?

 19:20:01 <pleia2> a few days ago I copied over some of the content from the live site to our testing wordpress site

 19:20:22 <pleia2> in this process I identified some issues, so knome has submitted a couple patches to the theme and the picslide plugin that canonical will need to pull in

 19:20:36 <pleia2> so we're continuing to work on the content migration as this moves along

 19:20:55 <pleia2> that's about it :)

 19:21:05 <charlie-tca> Thank you very much

 19:21:23 <charlie-tca> I still have hopes we make it for the release :)

 19:21:45 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Artwork ====

 19:21:57 <charlie-tca> ochosi: are you available?

 19:22:31 <charlie-tca> For those using greybird in Oneiric, you might have noticed some small changes, in the scrollbars and panels.

 19:23:23 <charlie-tca> These are to help with those of us that can't see so good anymore, and have less than perfect mouse control

 19:23:33 <charlie-tca> Thank you, ochosi, for that!

 19:23:41 <charlie-tca> Any questions on artwork?

 19:23:59 <charlie-tca> Many thanks also to madnick, we now have the new wallpaper in lightdm.

 19:24:30 <charlie-tca> Any questions up to this point?

 19:24:42 <charlie-tca> #topic === Announcements ===

 19:25:00 <charlie-tca> just to see if you are paying attention:

 19:25:03 <charlie-tca> * The next meeting will be on Sunday, October 23, 2011 at 22:00 UTC.

 19:25:05 <charlie-tca> * This will be the meeting to elect a new project leader.

 19:25:21 <charlie-tca> * Important dates coming up:

 19:25:23 <charlie-tca> * We are now in UI Freeze and Beta2 Freeze; archives will remain frozen until final release.

 19:25:24 <micahg> charlie-tca: no meeting next week?

 19:25:25 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Final Freeze: September 29

 19:25:27 <charlie-tca> * Final candidate testing starts on October 10

 19:25:29 <charlie-tca> * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

 19:25:29 <madnick> October 23?

 19:25:31 <charlie-tca> * We need to update the Team Reports this week.

 19:25:35 <charlie-tca> Not if we don't need one

 19:25:45 <charlie-tca> You did notice?

 19:25:51 <micahg> next 2 weeks...

 19:26:08 <charlie-tca> Next week is release images, then we get a break

 19:26:44 <charlie-tca> We will discuss the final release and pick a new leader October 23

 19:27:06 <charlie-tca> Please make notes about things you see a need to improve for the final release

 19:27:39 <charlie-tca> Team Reports! We seem to be behind again, so will have to roll August and September into one report

 19:28:05 <charlie-tca> Any comments?

 19:28:16 <beardygnome> o/

 19:28:23 <charlie-tca> go ahead, beardygnome

 19:28:44 <beardygnome> so we don't meet again until after oneiric release?

 19:28:50 <charlie-tca> correct

 19:28:54 <madnick> o/

 19:29:00 <charlie-tca> go ahead, madnick

 19:29:11 <madnick> does one need to use the ML to nominate lead? Or will there be a normal vote as well on IRC?

 19:29:38 <charlie-tca> Yes, nominations need to go to the Mailing List to keep them official

 19:29:58 <charlie-tca> The actual vote to elect the new lead will be on IRC at the October 23 meeting

 19:30:14 <madnick> oh okay

 19:30:40 <charlie-tca> We have less than two weeks now to final release of Xubuntu 11.10

 19:31:03 <charlie-tca> * https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-users is for those new to Xubuntu. Please join this team if you are contributing or using Xubuntu. This is the group that will elect the next project leader.

 19:31:27 <charlie-tca> #subtopic Nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead

 19:31:39 <charlie-tca> * Nominations for project lead are now open.

 19:31:41 <charlie-tca> * Those wishing to nominate themselves or others should do so by email to either mailing list, or myself (charlie-tca@ubuntu.com).

 19:31:43 <charlie-tca> * Nominations will close October 20, 2011, and the community election will be held at the meeting on October 23, 2011. If there are issues with this, please let us know between now and October 20.

 19:32:06 <charlie-tca> #topic === Any Other Business ===

 19:32:22 <charlie-tca> This is now an open floor for any other discussion.

 19:33:11 <charlie-tca> I do want to thank everyone who has helped to make Xubuntu 11.10 successful! Your hard work has made this a really good, usable release for our users.

 19:33:41 <charlie-tca> I also want to thank everyone for coming to these meetings. Your participation is what makes Xubuntu strong.

 19:34:05 <charlie-tca> beardygnome, jayson_r : I expect to see reviews of 11.10 from both of you.

 19:34:22 <charlie-tca> plantoschka: I hope you are doing a review also, please.

 19:34:32 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: for the website?

 19:34:33 <charlie-tca> Is there anything else?

 19:34:53 <charlie-tca> beardygnome: sure, we need one for the website.

 19:35:21 <beardygnome> i wasn't sure if i should do one this time

 19:35:36 <charlie-tca> Also, you all have great blogs that need to have reviews posted

 19:35:51 <charlie-tca> pleia2: we can put a review on the website, right?

 19:35:52 <plantoschka> i will definietly do a youtube video

 19:36:29 <beardygnome> cos if there's things i don't like then i don't want to skip them but i don't want to criticise the team either

 19:37:29 <charlie-tca> Criticism that is accurate and helps the team improve is welcome.

 19:37:43 <pleia2> charlie-tca: it's up to the team, right now all we post on our team news page are release announcements and instructions from team members (how to do artwork, etc), we can add a reviews section of the site where we link to reviews, or decide to cross-post reviews we find to our news blog

 19:38:12 <pleia2> I like the idea of a reviews section where we link to reviews because it's a pretty common thing to have

 19:38:16 <charlie-tca> I think a review along with the release notes would be great

 19:38:30 <charlie-tca> Let's do it, then.

 19:39:05 <charlie-tca> For reviewers, final release is October 13, so the reviews should be October 13 or later

 19:39:28 <charlie-tca> or at least real close, since the images are pretty accurate already

 19:39:38 <charlie-tca> Anything else to discuss?

 19:40:05 <charlie-tca> We should welcome touchpad and jayson_r and ElderDryas to the community.

 19:40:19 <charlie-tca> and, of course, anyone else that is new here!

 19:41:20 * zus waves and thanks  everyone

 19:41:31 <charlie-tca> Thank you all for joining in. Please get yourselfs signed up to the users team on launchpad!

 19:41:37 <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
