{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 11 Dec at 22:01 &mdash; 22:55 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-12-11-22.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:02.

** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-user-identifies-as 
** unixstickers shipped the stickers + t-shirt order yesterday, so I should know the quality of the t-shirt in however long it takes to get to California from Italy :)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to converse with knome about QA processes

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 22:09.

** Lots of positive social media response to both the Xfce surveys and call for testing of Intelligent Panel
** Not much in the way of image testing currently
** jjfrv8 finished the power manager docs I started abd then postponed, and they're already online -> http://docs.xfce.org/xfce/xfce4-power-manager/start
** package testing slow - as expected, given we've pulled that back now
** QA and dev/ochosi calling for testing on staging
** the power-manager docs are actually here: http://docs.xfce.org/xfce/xfce4-power-manager/1.4/start
** jjfrv8 has been patiently checking through testcases for reporting issues
** Started planning a Xubuntu QA global jam for the California LoCo on Sunday February 8th, local marketing/qa? :)
** Thanks to Unit193 we'll have a panel in our ubiquity install session that exposes important indicators (network, sound, a11y)
** ochosi tested bluez5 (as that is supposedly an upcoming transition) and things seemed to work just fine (bluetooth keyboard)
** Unit193 and bluesabre are also working towards resolving the black background in our ubiquity install session
** gtk3.14 is still stuck, #ubuntu-desktop folks (mostly larsu) are still working on the transition

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 22:24.

** I'm proposing to retire all themes from the default install except Numix and Greybird
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to investigate why xubuntu-v-docs isnt shown in status.ubuntu.com

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:36.

** ''Vote:'' Based on the feedback from the community, should we stick to our decision of not installing XChat by default anymore? (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-12-11-22.01.log.html#209 Based on the feedback from the community, should we stick to our decision of not installing XChat by default anymore?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 8/1/0)
** Voters matte88, dkessel, ochosi, elfy, Unit193, slickymaster, jjfrv8, pleia2, skellat

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** elfy to converse with knome about QA processes
* ochosi
** ochosi to investigate why xubuntu-v-docs isnt shown in status.ubuntu.com
** ochosi to schedule the next meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (124)
* elfy (62)
* slickymaster (23)
* meetingology (20)
* pleia2 (15)
* Unit193 (6)
* skellat (6)
* matte88 (4)
* dkessel (4)
* jjfrv8 (3)
* sidi (2)
* ubottu (1)
