{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 16 Oct at 20:00 &mdash; 20:53 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-10-16-20.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 20:03.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to set up voting on meeting structure

==== Team Updates ====
The discussion about "Team Updates" started at 20:06.

** started the 16.04 doc read through and MP done

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 20:09.

* '''Last minute Wily issues for discussion''' (20:10)
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to build Specifications/X/DefaultMediaPlayer
* '''Core ISO/ CD:DVD''' (20:15)
* '''15.10 RC and testing''' (20:20)
* '''16.04 Milestones''' (20:25)
** From a development perspective, we're targeting bug fixes to make 16.04 super stable.  Don't expect a lot of new features, so testing done at all parts of the cycle will be incredibly relevant
* '''16.04 Package Testing''' (20:29)
** Usability bug reports are fair game. These changes really make Xfce and Xubuntu easier to use for lots of people. If things don't seem quite right with an application, let us know
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-team to decide on default media player prior to alpha 2 in order to deal with usability and accessibility concerns
** ''ACTION:'' flocculant To take default media player discussion to M/L
* '''Core re-run''' (20:38)
* '''Bug Tagging''' (20:48)

==== Schedule Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule Next Meeting" started at 20:51.

** ''ACTION:'' XPL or Technical Lead to set next meeting at the start of X cycle

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* flocculant
** flocculant to build Specifications/X/DefaultMediaPlayer
** flocculant To take default media player discussion to M/L
* knome
** knome to set up voting on meeting structure
* **UNASSIGNED**
** xubuntu-team to decide on default media player prior to alpha 2 in order to deal with usability and accessibility concerns
** XPL or Technical Lead to set next meeting at the start of X cycle

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* flocculant (118)
* knome (60)
* Unit193 (10)
* meetingology (8)
* krytarik (3)
* Noskcaj (2)
