{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 20 Mar at 11:00 &mdash; 11:34 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-03-20-11.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 11:06.

** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to tie up with elfy for xubuntu-core upgrade testing needs
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to add the "game issue" into the meeting agenda
** ''ACTION:'' knome to follow up with ochosi on setting up a team vote - or allowing more time for discussion

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 11:08.

** ''ACTION:'' elfy to add the "game issue" into the meeting agenda
** Xfce 4.12 has been uploaded to vivid and the xubuntu-staging PPA.
** Unit193 set up a package tracker for the xfce projects in Debian, Ubuntu, and our PPAs https://sigma.unit193.net/~unit193/xfce412.html
** Gmusicbrowser 1.1.14 has been released. It now supports gstreamer1.0, we should try to get it in the staging-PPA and test it for a potential FFe for 15.04
** We'll be updating the team/subteam descriptions on Launchpad shortly to conform to a standard layout
** ''LINK:'' http://pad.ubuntu.com/xubuntu-subteams Let us know if you have any feedback for the proposed layout

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 11:16.

** Upcoming milestone: Final Beta Freeze on Monday, Final Beta on Thursday
** Xubuntu 12.04 EOL is next month, we should make a formal announcement

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 11:20.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 11:34.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* ochosi
** knome to follow up with ochosi on setting up a team vote - or allowing more time for discussion
** ochosi to schedule the next meeting
* **UNASSIGNED**
** Unit193 to tie up with elfy for xubuntu-core upgrade testing needs
** elfy to add the "game issue" into the meeting agenda

=== Done items ===

* elfy to add the "game issue" into the meeting agenda

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (51)
* bluesabre (33)
* meetingology (7)
* ubottu (1)
