{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 24 Oct at 15:03 &mdash; 15:58 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-10-24-15.03.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 15:03.

* '''Open action items from previous meetings''' (15:03)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome tries to have time for that latest next week
** ''ACTION:'' skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so
** GridCube will be ready whenever knome needs his asistance
* '''Ideas for using the project money''' (15:05)
** Discussion will continue on the mailing lists

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 15:05.

** Planning for testing of LTS is moving on http://pad.ubuntu.com/SdHxBbkLTO
** Some input from -team on various aspects of that is required
** Published latest in "Xubuntu at" series: http://xubuntu.org/news/xubuntu-at-techs-for-a-cause-in-kansas-city/
** If anyone else knows of people using Xubuntu in the wild, please send them my way :)
** knome has still one "Xubuntu at..." -series mail QIP
** ''ACTION:'' GridCube to send a list of Xubuntu reviews to the -devel mailing list
** Elfy is half way through doing an QA Saucy roundup
** knome and pleia2 reviewed the strategy document a bit further...

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Annoucements" started at 15:12.

** knome will step down from the XPL assignment after 14.04
** skellat: article about upgrading is in progress and can be found at lp:~skellat/+junk/UpgradingXubuntu

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 15:18.

* '''Strategy Document reviewing''' (15:18)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to make sure latest draft for the new SD is available for everybody before next week
* '''Developer communication and coordination in IRC''' (15:32)
** Use #xubuntu-devel for development discussions, not #xubuntu-offtopic (where you are of course encouraged to socialize with other developers)
* '''Translating the website, LP 797600''' (15:34)
* '''Wrap up the Saucy cycle; things we did well, areas to improve, postponing blueprints to T, ...''' (15:40)
* '''Xubuntu Core (or xubuntu-core)''' (15:55)
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (15:55)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap 
** Next Xubuntu community meeting: Thu, Oct 31st, 15UTC at #xubuntu-devel

=== Action items, by person ===
* GridCube
** GridCube to send a list of Xubuntu reviews to the -devel mailing list
* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome to make sure latest draft for the new SD is available for everybody before next week
* skellat
** skellat to prepare blog article discussing updating & upgrading for users and why it is okay to do so

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (136)
* GridCube (64)
* elfy (19)
* pleia2 (19)
* ochosi (12)
* meetingology (7)
* brainwash (2)
* ubottu (1)
* slickymaster (1)
* skellat (0)
