{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-06-13 Meeting Minutes ===

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU

==== Team updates ====

===== Packaging & Development =====

* LightDM replaced GDM as the login manager
* xarchiver replaced file-roller due to nautilus dependency with file-roller
* leafpad replaced mousepad; mousepad needs a maintainer in Xfce. This will also allow Xubuntu to drop xfprint4, which is used only by mousepad.
* mr_pouit created https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Oneiric/DeltaReviewAndCleanup to track the current diffs with Debian.
* we also added back the places plugin since it no longer uses hal
* pavucontrol and pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* look at the possibility of adding midori as a second browser

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* having a couple of people willing to test daily images (install, restart, update, restart, shutdown), we now have chart of daily testing to use.
** https://spreadsheets.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AucFSttyWCevdGZSenZqRS04eE9LYnBwSWtUM0NJRXc&hl=en_US&authkey=CP282scF#gid=0
* Testing wiki - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing

===== Website & Marketing =====

* emailed cody to see if he could update the current drupal site with knomes latest drupal revision which puts the new logo in
* There is a current discussion on the xubuntu-devel mailing list
* We will start a "promote Xubuntu" page on the website
** It will be started by just putting the logos up
* We welcome the addition of plantoschka to the team
** plantoschka has been kind enough to offer to write news releases and blogs for Xubuntu
* We also have a wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing with general ideas
* bugs at https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website and we're down to just 1, but please add more if you find them
* "marketing" definition:
** news releases, blogs, release parties, !OpenWeek, !DeveloperWeek, !UserDays
** http://www.jonobacon.org/2011/06/01/six-months-of-rocking-ubuntu-events/
** Anything we can do to promote Xubuntu
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing

===== Artwork =====

* Our theme will be re-worked to fine tune it for Oneiric. Those with real sharp eyes running Oneiric will see the changes, or at least it did change.
* Our artwork team <nowiki>[[ http:--wiki.knome.fi-shimmer:greybird | goals]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu now has a theme engine so that one theme can work for both gtk3 and gtk2

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====
* There is a really neat review of Xfce, which includes a few comments on Xubuntu
** http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/456623-weekend-project-find-hidden-treasures-in-xfce-48
* We do have a support channel for spanish support, that is not included in the !es factoid. It is #xubuntu-es .
* Alpha2 is due on July 7, testing will start on July 5

==== Any Other Business ====

* Next meeting is in one week, June 19, #xubuntu-devel, at 22:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-06-13 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

==== Action items for the 2011-06-13 meeting ====

* No action items

===== Xubuntu Governance =====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-06-13 Meeting Log ===

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** micahg
** pleia2
** plantoschka

The full logs can found in original form at 
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/06/13/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

Started logging meeting in #xubuntu-devel

[20:01] <charlie-tca> #STARTMEETING

[20:01] <micahg> o/

[20:01]  * micahg passes charlie-tca a chair

[20:01] <charlie-tca> yes, I know we have no meeting bot, but at least using start and end lets a person seach the logs easily

[20:01] <charlie-tca> Thanks, micahg

[20:02] <charlie-tca> Welcome to the Xubuntu Community Meeting. The full agenda is always available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[20:02] <charlie-tca> *   Old business - all

[20:02] <charlie-tca>         knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing - email discussion started on xubuntu-devel ML - DONE

[20:02] <charlie-tca>         Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU

[20:02] <charlie-tca> *   Team updates - Team Leads

[20:02] <charlie-tca>  *       Packaging & Development

[20:02] <charlie-tca>             Changes to the default applications

[20:02] <charlie-tca> *       Bug Triage & Testing

[20:02] <charlie-tca>             Daily testing versus milestone testing

[20:02] <charlie-tca> *       Website & Marketing

[20:02] <charlie-tca>             There is a current discussion on the xubuntu-devel mailing list

[20:02] <charlie-tca> *       Artwork

[20:03] <charlie-tca> *       Documentation

[20:03] <charlie-tca> *   Announcements - Project Lead

[20:03] <charlie-tca>         TeamReports need to be updated

[20:03] <charlie-tca>             https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports

[20:03] <charlie-tca> *   Governance structure - all

[20:03] <charlie-tca>         The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure

[20:03] <charlie-tca> *   Any Other Business - all/anyone

[20:03] <charlie-tca>         Anyone involved with Xubuntu can update TeamReports, please do not wait for the Project Lead to do the updates.

[20:03] <charlie-tca> whoa! that looks big

[20:03] <pleia2> :)

[20:03] <charlie-tca> Old business - all

[20:03] <charlie-tca>         knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing

[20:04] <charlie-tca> We closed this because we did start the discussion on the Mailing List. It is not as active as I would like, however, it is a start!

[20:04] <charlie-tca> Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU

[20:04] <charlie-tca> I'm behind and getting farther behind.

[20:05] <charlie-tca> Team updates - Team Leads

[20:05] <charlie-tca>  *       Packaging & Development

[20:05] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: You make it, or micahg

[20:06] <charlie-tca> The updates I have already are :

[20:06] <charlie-tca> LightDM replaced GDM as the login manager

[20:06] <charlie-tca> xarchiver replaced file-roller due to nautilus dependency with file-roller

[20:06] <charlie-tca> leafpad replaced mousepad; mousepad needs a maintainer in Xfce. This will also allow Xubuntu to drop xfprint4, which is used only by mousepad.

[20:06] <charlie-tca> micahg: your turn

[20:06] <micahg> mr_pouit created https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Oneiric/DeltaReviewAndCleanup to track the current diffs with Debian

[20:07] <charlie-tca> Great idea!

[20:07] <micahg> we have a few syncs waiting for the next sync run, it looks like we'll only have a handful of packages with a diff in ubuntu when we're done, some of the diff will be kept in Debian

[20:08] <charlie-tca> Did we get pavucontrol and pastebinit added to the defaults?

[20:08] <micahg> not yet

[20:08] <charlie-tca> and, what about the possibility of shipping with two browsers?

[20:08] <micahg> we also added back the places plugin since it no longer uses hal

[20:08] <charlie-tca> Yay!

[20:08] <charlie-tca> That's a nice gain

[20:09] <micahg> we're still horribly oversized, we should work on that first before adding more IMHO

[20:09] <charlie-tca> I agree. Ubuntu seems to be under now, we should be able to work our images down too

[20:09] <micahg> yeah, well, we're inheriting some bloat still from Ubuntu (GTK3)

[20:10] <charlie-tca> Thanks for the updates, micahg

[20:10] <micahg> so, we'll see what happens after the next CD run

[20:10] <charlie-tca> Any questions/comments for development?

[20:10] <charlie-tca> Next topic then...

[20:10] <charlie-tca> Bug Triage & Testing

[20:10] <charlie-tca>             Daily testing versus milestone testing

[20:11] <charlie-tca> We have not gotten an image since the 10th of June. It is under investigation

[20:12] <charlie-tca> However, having a couple of people willing to test daily images (install, restart, update, restart, shutdown), we now have chart of daily testing to use.

[20:12] <charlie-tca> https://spreadsheets.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AucFSttyWCevdGZSenZqRS04eE9LYnBwSWtUM0NJRXc&hl=en_US&authkey=CP282scF#gid=0

[20:12] <charlie-tca> If we are updating it, we will move it to the wiki

[20:13] <charlie-tca> Otherwise, it becomes a nice flowchart for the testing people to try to use.

[20:13] <charlie-tca> There are still a ton of issues with oneiric, too many to report all the bugs this early.

[20:13] <charlie-tca> any questions for testing?

[20:14] <charlie-tca> Next topic...

[20:14] <charlie-tca> Website & Marketing

[20:14] <charlie-tca>             There is a current discussion on the xubuntu-devel mailing list

[20:14] <charlie-tca> Anyone is welcome to add to the discussion. We really need someone to grab this and carry it on.

[20:15] <pleia2> if someone has some ideas for content we can start creating the "promote xubuntu" page on the site

[20:15] <pleia2> I can start by just putting the logos up if you want

[20:15] <charlie-tca> And, in Marketing terms, we welcome the addition of plantoschka to the team.

[20:15] <charlie-tca> pleia2: that would be great!

[20:15] <pleia2> ok cool, I'll work on that then :)

[20:16] <plantoschka> ;-)

[20:16] <charlie-tca> We also have a wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Marketing with general ideas

[20:16] <charlie-tca> plantoschka has been kind enough to offer to write news releases and blogs for Xubuntu.

[20:16] <pleia2> great

[20:17] <pleia2> for website stuff, I've been tackling bugs at https://bugs.launchpad.net/xubuntu-website and we're down to just 1, but please add more if you find them

[20:17] <pleia2> and we now have a test wordpress install up at xubuntu.princessleia.com (please don't spread this URL too far, the server has limited power :)) where knome is developing our wordpress theme

[20:17] <charlie-tca> wOw! That's great. Let's stay on top, if you haven't visited http://xubuntu.org lately, it is time to visit it

[20:18] <charlie-tca> all bugs against the website can be reported directly to launchpad or using      ubuntu-bug xubuntu-website

[20:18] <pleia2> I also emailed cody to see if he could update the current drupal site with knomes latest drupal revision which puts the new logo in, but I haven't heard back

[20:19] <charlie-tca> and he isn't here today, either.

[20:19] <charlie-tca> Shall we let plantoschka introduce himself?

[20:19] <pleia2> yeah, I'm done :)

[20:19] <charlie-tca> plantoschka: go ahead and tell us a little about you

[20:20] <plantoschka> oh okay ;)

[20:21] <charlie-tca> I know you said you have written a blog in german?

[20:21] <plantoschka> i'm anton from germany 23 years old and atm studying computer science. i use and work with linux system since a couple of years and now using (and loving) xubuntu since a few months

[20:21] <plantoschka> yes. http://www.plantoschka.com/

[20:22] <plantoschka> some posts are dedicated to xubuntu

[20:22] <charlie-tca> I forgot to tell you I was going to have you introduce yourself today?

[20:23] <plantoschka> yeah ;)

[20:23] <charlie-tca> Welcome to Xubuntu! We are happy to have help

[20:23] <charlie-tca> Any questions on website and marketing?

[20:23] <plantoschka> not right now

[20:24] <charlie-tca> next topic...

[20:24] <charlie-tca> Artwork

[20:24] <charlie-tca> Our theme will be re-worked to fine tune it for Oneiric. Those with real sharp eyes running Oneiric will see the changes, or at least it did change.

[20:26] <charlie-tca> Next topic...

[20:26] <charlie-tca> Announcements

[20:26] <charlie-tca> There is a really neat review of Xfce, which Xubuntu is based on

[20:26] <charlie-tca> http://www.linux.com/learn/tutorials/456623-weekend-project-find-hidden-treasures-in-xfce-48

[20:26] <plantoschka> is greybird going to support gtk3 apps? or does it already?

[20:27] <charlie-tca> ochosi is planning to support gtk3, yes

[20:27] <plantoschka> ok think itÃ„

[20:27] <charlie-tca> There are no themes yet for it, though

[20:27] <plantoschka> it's important for oneiric

[20:27] <plantoschka> or all the gtk3 apps look bad

[20:27] <charlie-tca> Xubuntu will stay in gtk2 for oneiric, since Xfce requires it

[20:28] <charlie-tca> but, yeah, with the mix of them, we will have the theme updated for gtk3

[20:28] <plantoschka> yeah, but still some people are using nautilus or similar..

[20:28] <charlie-tca> heh, oh well... ;-)

[20:28] <charlie-tca> software center will also be gtk3, and it is included by default

[20:29] <micahg> xubuntu will be staying on gtk2 for oneiric+1 as well :)

[20:29] <micahg> software center might not be ported to gtk3

[20:29] <micahg> ubuntu now has a theme engine so that one theme can work for both gtk3 and gtk2

[20:29] <plantoschka> please never remove the software center from xubuntu :-D

[20:30] <charlie-tca> I never use it, myself.

[20:30] <charlie-tca> however, let's press on here

[20:30] <charlie-tca> next topic...

[20:30] <charlie-tca> Announcements

[20:30] <charlie-tca> TeamReports need to be updated

[20:30] <charlie-tca>             https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/TeamReports

[20:31] <charlie-tca> If we keep the team reports updated as we go through the month, it is much easier than trying to remember everything we did at the end of the month

[20:31] <charlie-tca> Anyone involved with Xubuntu can update TeamReports, please do not wait for the Project Lead to do the updates.

[20:32] <charlie-tca> Questions?

[20:32] <charlie-tca> micahg, mr_pouit : the sooner we can say yes or no to gtk3 the better it will be.

[20:32] <charlie-tca> Any other business?

[20:33] <charlie-tca> The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure

[20:33] <micahg> charlie-tca: well, IMHO, if we need it (for shared components we can't replace), we take it, if not, not

[20:34] <micahg> charlie-tca: do we need yelp?

[20:34] <charlie-tca> yes

[20:34] <micahg> ok, that's GTK3, issue solved :)

[20:34] <charlie-tca> apparently, much of the xfce documentation is now read through yelp

[20:34] <charlie-tca> or at least the answer is "yes, we need yelp"

[20:35] <charlie-tca> so, we will have both, huh?

[20:35] <micahg> yep

[20:35] <charlie-tca> anything else???   Anyone???

[20:35] <charlie-tca> testing!

[20:35] <micahg> better to take this hit this cycle than scrambling next cycle, we'll definitely need it next cycle

[20:35] <micahg> at least for the shared stuff :)

[20:36] <charlie-tca> I have a couple of people signed up for daily and milestone testing. But I am losing them faster than I can sign them up

[20:36] <charlie-tca> Alpha2 is due on July 7. On July 5, we start milestone testing the candidate for Alpha2. THat is the involved tests.

[20:37] <charlie-tca> Even as volunteers, once you tell us you will do something, we expect it to happen, please.

[20:37] <charlie-tca> going....

[20:38] <charlie-tca> going 2 .....

[20:38] <pleia2> charlie-tca: a reminder to the -devel list on the 4th or 5th would be super helpful

[20:38] <charlie-tca> Can do

[20:38] <pleia2> thanks :)

[20:38] <charlie-tca> no problem

[20:38] <charlie-tca> Thanks for bringing that up

[20:38] <charlie-tca> Next meeting will be Sunday June 19 at 22:00 UTC

[20:39] <charlie-tca> and I will try to be here for it

[20:39] <charlie-tca> Thanks to everyone for participating in the meeting.

[20:39] <charlie-tca> #ENDMEETING
