{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 30 Jan at 18:59 &mdash; 20:01 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-01-30-18.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Open action items from previous meeting" started at 19:02.

** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to poke Noskcaj if time-admin and users-admin do not exist in the next daily
** ''ACTION:'' knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send an email to the mailing list re: bluetooth
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
** ''ACTION:'' team members that are able to test/use bluetooth stuff, consider which software they would like to use, if it matters

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:06.

** knome updated the meetings page with the new structure
** slickymaster finished Mugshot's online documentation -> http://smdavis.us/doku/doku.php?id=mugshot-docs
** Image testing for the last 7 days -> 64 bit image tests 3, no 32 bit tests reported
** Upgrade testing since call earlier in the week - 64 bit 13.10 to 14.04 5 reported for update manager upgrading, no tests from image
** Upgrade testing since call earlier in the week - 64 bit lts to lts 5 reported for update manager upgrading, 3 reported for image update
** Upgrade testing since call earlier in the week - 32 bit 13.10 to 14.04 2 reported for update manager upgrading, no tests from image
** Upgrade testing since call earlier in the week - 32 bit lts to lts 2 reported for update manager upgrading, none reported for image update
** Settings Manager test call out soon - includes light-locker
** knome looked into the docs SRU and the new, fixed package (thanks bluesabre) should land in precise any day.
** Manual testcase continues prior to calls
** knome, ochosi and pleia2 held a meeting and selected the winners for the community wallpapers
** knome did housecleaning on the blueprints
** mugshot in debian NEW
** menulibre updated
** parole 0.6 in ubuntu repos
** slickymaster started to work on migrating Mugshot documentation into docbook format
** Noskcaj updated gthumb to 3.3
** Unit193 sent a message to the list about the xubuntu-core meta.
** lderan made a list of apps that can be ran simple "does it open" tests with autopilot: http://paste.ubuntu.com/6840722/
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:28.

** Documentation checkup meeting on Wednesday, Feb 5 at 19UTC

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 19:37.

* '''Enabling more people to push to Xubuntu branches (separate branches team, or would -team do?)''' (19:37)
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** if we need packageset uploader rights for certain people later, we shall ask DMB to create a new team for that purpose
* '''Status of Bluetooth in Xubuntu; what kind of testing we want to run, which software we want to use?''' (19:46)
** ''LINK:'' http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=700863 
* '''Discuss documentation translations''' (19:57)
** ''ACTION:'' Someone with bluetooth to write a testcase

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 20:00.

** Next meeting Thursday, Feb 6, 19UTC

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
* elfy
** elfy to poke Noskcaj if time-admin and users-admin do not exist in the next daily
* knome
** knome to be in touch with people re Tech Lead position
** knome to send an email to the mailing list re: bluetooth
* micahg
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
* Noskcaj
** elfy to poke Noskcaj if time-admin and users-admin do not exist in the next daily
* ochosi
** ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
* team
** team members that are able to test/use bluetooth stuff, consider which software they would like to use, if it matters
* **UNASSIGNED**
** Someone with bluetooth to write a testcase

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (135)
* micahg-work (39)
* ali1234 (25)
* Noskcaj (23)
* elfy (18)
* meetingology (15)
* slickymaster (11)
* cyphermox (7)
* Unit193 (6)
* jjfrv8-work (5)
* brainwash (5)
* ubottu (3)
* pleia2 (3)
* micahg (0)
* team (0)
