{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 26 May at 20:01 &mdash; 21:01 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-05-26-20.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

lightdm-gtk-greeter 1.8.5 is stuck, working on it
menulibre SRU in progress
''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/menulibre/+bug/1323405 
==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 20:06.

** QA is slow - hardly any movement at all
** Artwork: Our icon-theme is being worked on currently, hopefully a new release soon. Fixed a few visual bugs, like bluetooth status not showing correctly in the panel (blueman) and fix for indicator-power and bright panels.
** Artwork: Work on Gtk3.12 support in our themes is currently blocked by Gtk3.12 not being in the repos yet.
** Marketing: pleia2 did an interview for Linux Luddites Episode #16 on Xubuntu http://linuxluddites.com/shows/episode-16/
** Development: The light-locker black screen fix is in the sponsors queue
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/light-locker-settings/+bug/1323368 
** ''LINK:'' https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1323367 
** Website new static.xubuntu.org CSS page was added to theme so we can do some of our own CSS updates without waiting on IS

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 20:13.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 20:18.

** The mailinglist will get moderated on a per-offender basis, "two strikes and you're flagged".
** ''ACTION:'' knome to describe the -devel ML moderation policy to Processes in the wiki
* '''Trello''' (20:31)
** Unit193 set up a Trello bot for interaction with the board from within IRC.
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Team 
** Those in -team not yet on the trello access list to get account so they can be added
** ''ACTION:'' knome to create a Trello account
** Whoever has questions to Trello can get in touch with elfy.
* '''Meeting times during the U cycle''' (20:46)
** ''ACTION:'' slickymaster to announce the next meeting time ASAP
** ''ACTION:'' knome updates the Processes page for the new meeting chair/scheduling policy
** ''ACTION:'' knome adds a list of cycling chairs in the Meetings page
* '''Route testing requirements through xubuntu-qa''' (20:53)
** Talk to QA for testing requirements
** Check Trello calendar before talking to QA

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome to describe the -devel ML moderation policy to Processes in the wiki
** knome to create a Trello account
** knome updates the Processes page for the new meeting chair/scheduling policy
** knome adds a list of cycling chairs in the Meetings page

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* ochosi (149)
* knome (103)
* elfy (62)
* bluesabre (31)
* pleia2 (13)
* meetingology (11)
* Unit193 (9)
* Noskcaj_ (3)
* ubottu (3)
