{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for March 2008'''

===== Artwork =====

* Artwork completed and uploaded.

===== Community =====

* An important <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive|Xubuntu community meeting]]</nowiki> took place on March 26th where an initial Xubuntu mission statement was agreed upon.
* Cody Somerville (CodySomerville) was appointed the new Xubuntu team leader.
* Cody Somerville (CodySomerville) was tasked with developing a strategy document for Xubuntu that describes how Xubuntu will go about achieving its goals.
* Jim Campbell (<nowiki>[[j1mc]]</nowiki>) joined the <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team|Xubuntu Team]]</nowiki>.

===== Documentation =====

* Documentation was completed and uploaded.
* Translation efforts are underway.
* Work has begun on a total revamp of the Xubuntu wiki.

===== Marketing =====

* Xubuntu 8.04 <nowiki>[[HardyHeron/BetaAnnouncement/Xubuntu|Beta announcement]]</nowiki> was released on the Ubuntu wiki.

===== Packaging & Development =====

* A new upstream version of gnumerics with lots of bug fixes was merged and uploaded.
* New upstream version of xfce4-clipman-plugin synced.
* Openoffice.org was successfully unseeded and is no longer shipped on Xubuntu cds.
* A number of merges and syncs from debian.

===== Testing =====

* Xubuntu 8.04 Beta desktop i386 and destkop amd64 were tested and released.
* Xubuntu 8.04 Beta alternative i386 and alternative amd64 are due to be released on March 27th due to a bug.

===== Website =====

* The website team has nothing new to report this month. However, if anyone is interested in redoing the Xubuntu website for Hardy, please contact Cody Somerville (CodySomerville).
