{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 12 Dec at 19:11 &mdash; 20:26 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-12-12-19.11.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 19:11.

* '''Open action items from previous meeting''' (19:11)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** ''ACTION:'' skellat and ali1234 to look at the SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
** Uploaded to saucy-proposed but not accepted yet; will follow up on next meeting

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:13.

** Going to use this as the call for testing schedule http://pad.ubuntu.com/OHGoAbZPji
** Image testing: 64 bit - 5 people did 7.3% of all possible tests and for 32 bit - 4 people did 13.2% of all possible tests
** Automatic image testing - working for us now, though currently all failing due to the user-session bug, can be seen here https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/All/job/ubiquity_ap-xubuntu_devel_daily-run/
** Package testing - 13/13 Mandatory, 4/5 Run Once, 10/22 Optional - atm 3 people tested packages(these all need further testing calls though) re schedule
** Used the contact team members (xubuntu-testers) for testing call last time, 1 person amongst those mentioned above seems new to me
** QA team is running now - good forward step this, everyone knows (or should) what each other is working on
** Call to be written explaining exploratory testing - these will be reported via packages tracker, but is about people testing when they're using apps rather than to a schedule
** gthumb 3.2.5 is now uploaded, a second upload will re-add webapps
** Sent "What's New in Trusty" doc proposal email to ML
** autopilot tests has a bit of a step forward, looks like we can do some basic testing with the xfce at the moment (checking to see if they open)

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:18.

* '''Changes in Lionel Le Folgoc's leadership positions''' (19:18)
** Lionel will step down from the Technical Lead position, but will stay as the Debian Liaison
** ''ACTION:'' knome to update the Leaders wikipage

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 19:31.

* '''Alpha participation''' (19:31)
** ''Vote:'' Participate in both alphas (+1) or not (-1); team members can vote (Carried)
* '''Replacing post installation tests''' (19:34)
** Proposal: Replace current post install tests (http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1434/info and http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/testcases/1434/info with a single test http://packages.qa.dev.stgraber.org/qatracker/testcases/1569/info . Tests for old optional items to be created and then added to new single test.
* '''"What's new" for LTS''' (19:39)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2013-December/009517.html 
* '''Other things''' (19:46)
** We might be able to re-add pidgin twitter support if https://code.google.com/p/prpltwtr/issues/detail?id=88 get's fixed. there is a bounty worth $5000 dollars (currently) for a fix
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
** ochosi has been working with eric_the_idiot a few of the missing pieces of Xfce4.12 done
** NSchermer said he will try to do more development releases before christmas
** ochosi wants "those of you who test trusty already to use the shimmer-daily PPA"
** ''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~shimmerproject/+archive/daily 
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (19:57)
** testing should focus on Gnome3/Gtk3 apps (e.g. evince), checking whether the theming is fine and whether all icons are there
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to chase bluesabre re menulibre
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to set up a new vm and get everyone's new bits in so I've got something to look at
** ''ACTION:'' - team with new apps to be tested to contact elfy with details
** ochosi said "so whoever tests indicators at the moment, also use the shimmer daily PPA please"
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (20:26)
** Next meeting Thu 19 Dec at 19UTC

=== Vote results ===

* Participate in both alphas (+1) or not (-1); team members can vote
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)

=== Action items, by person ===
* ali1234
** skellat and ali1234 to look at the SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2
* elfy
** elfy to chase bluesabre re menulibre
** elfy to set up a new vm and get everyone's new bits in so I've got something to look at
** - team with new apps to be tested to contact elfy with details
* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome to update the Leaders wikipage
* ochosi
** ochosi to follow up on xfce 4.12 release with nick and report back
* skellat
** skellat and ali1234 to look at the SRU progress for indicator-sound-GTK2

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (145)
* ochosi (75)
* elfy (61)
* micahg-work (35)
* meetingology (21)
* Noskcaj (13)
* pleia2 (12)
* Unit193 (11)
* ali1234 (10)
* jjfrv8 (6)
* lderan (5)
* skellat (3)
* PhoenixSTF (2)
