{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for June 2008'''

===== Artwork =====

* The xubuntu artwork team is hard at work on the new theme for Intrepid. Mock-ups for a some new artwork can be found <nowiki>[[http://core.joejaxx.net/~nothlit/xubuntu/|here]]</nowiki> . 

===== Community =====

* Two community strategy meetings were held. These were the final meetings on the Xubuntu strategy document. The final strategy specification will be announced on or about July 1st.

===== Documentation =====

* The membership status of Jim Campbell (jwcampbell) in the team Ubuntu
Members (ubuntumembers) was changed by Efrain Valles (effie-jayx) from
Proposed to Approved. Jim is the Xubuntu Documentation Team Leader.
* Most translation issues that popped up in Hardy have been fixed (updates will make their way to users shortly)

===== Marketing =====

* 

===== Packaging & Development =====

* Several important security fixes were handled by members of the Xubuntu developers team (currently in progress)
* Bug #232364 was heavily investigated and a fix was found by Cody Somerville - an SRU will be done shortly 
* bug was found and fixed where the Xubuntu session was not being completed correctly - this fixes several high visibility bugs and an SRU will be conducted shortly.

===== Testing =====

* Intrepid Ibex Alpha 1 was released. The full release schedule may be seen <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidReleaseSchedule|here]]</nowiki>.
* Xubuntu Testing is looking for a Team Leader. This is an important part of every release. Since we have already released Intrepid Ibex Alpha 1, the need for Test Leader is imperative. Please contact <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodySomerville|Cody Somerville]]</nowiki> if you are interested.

===== Website =====

* The website is in need of being reworked, if anyone is interested please contact Cody Somerville (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CodySomerville|CodySomerville]]</nowiki>).
* I have created the page for Team Reports for <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/TeamReports/08/July| July]]</nowiki>. If possible, please try to give a summary of what is being done.
