{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for December, 2010'''

MERRY CHRISTMAS / HAPPY HANUKKA

===== Bug Triage =====

* Still squashing bugs. This will be an on-going process.
 

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Added new versions of xfce4-notifyd, xfce4-appfinder, xfwm4, ristretto, xfce4-dev-tools and xfce4-volumed. 
* Tested and released the Natty Wharhal Alpha1 images.
** There are no alpha1 images for Powerpc and PS3 users.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Xubuntu needs a Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Artwork =====

* We still need a good plymouth theme. 
* We have drawn up artwork specs for Xubuntu wallpaper, and any input is welcomed.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/0007_Xubuntu_Natty_Wallpaper
* ochosi is working on updating the faenza icon theme to include all icons.
* ochosi is updating the bluebird theme to create greybird for possible inclusion in Natty Narwhal.
** Feel free to check it out @ http://shimmerproject.org/hg/bluebird-colors > greybird.
* Xubuntu needs an Artwork Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to get word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* The Xubuntu Community holds a regular meeting on Thursday at 19:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.
* Minutes and Logs from the meetings are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings.
* A community meeting was held on 2010-12-02.
* Xubuntu needs to nominate and vote for a permanent Project Lead. Nominations are explained in https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2010-November/007614.html.

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com
