{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 13 Feb at 19:01 &mdash; 20:09 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-02-13-19.01.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items from previous meeting ====
The discussion about "Open action items from previous meeting" started at 19:04.

** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ''ACTION:'' ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** ''ACTION:'' micahg to look at Noskcaj's MOTU application
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to do merge proposals for "X performs Y" styled listings for the docs

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 19:12.

** ''ACTION:'' lderan to create the individual merge proposals for the basix Xubuntu tests
** xubuntu-docs 14.04.0 uploaded
** git snapshot of xfce4-panel pending upload/review
** light-locker will see a 1.2 release towards the weekend, which brings the feature of timed-locking, bregma will package/upload it
** knome got the new website theme pushed to production, release soon
** lightdm-gtk-greeter got a 1.8 release and is waiting to be packaged/uploaded
** slickymaster finished the Xfdesktop documentation in Xubuntu docs
** our gtk-themes got releases in git, shimmer-themes is ready to updated for b1
** lderan has got his  meetingology bot changes now live, more to follow soon
** xkb-plugin 0.7.0 now in trusty, might need testing
** ''ACTION:'' Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 19:16.

** Feature Freeze in one week
** Beta 1 on Feb 27
** lderan is working on a settings UI for light-locker to be finished before FF
** CC check-in at the meeting on the 20th.

==== Agenda ====
The discussion about "Agenda" started at 19:21.

* '''Vote on the new panel layout @ Roadmap/Specifications/Trusty/Whiskermenu''' (19:21)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Trusty/Whiskermenu 
** ''Vote:'' OK to drop the bottom panel? Team members can vote (you know who you are) (Carried)
** ''Vote:'' Approve the generic panel layout (whiskermenu vs. appmenu to be voted on later). -team can vote (Carried)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Trusty/Whiskermenu?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=whiskermenu.png 
** ''Vote:'' Whiskermenu (+1) or application menu (-1)? -team can vote (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' xubuntu-team to generally discuss about whiskermenu after B1
* '''Discuss the need for Quality Assurance''' (19:52)
* '''Discuss dropping gthumb from the seed''' (20:02)
** ''Vote:'' Drop gthumb (+1) or keep (-1)? -team can vote (Carried)
* '''Start the discussion on the technical review for the Strategy Document''' (20:07)

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 20:07.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to email the -devel list on scheduling the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-02-13-19.01.log.html#450|Drop gthumb (+1) or keep (-1)? -team can vote]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/0/0)
** Voters knome, lderan, slickymaster-job, jjfrv8, Unit193, Noskcaj
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-02-13-19.01.log.html#190|Approve the generic panel layout (whiskermenu vs. appmenu to be voted on later). -team can vote]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 7/0/2)
** Voters knome, micahg_work, lderan, slickymaster-job, Unit193, ochosi, jjfrv8, pleia2, Noskcaj
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-02-13-19.01.log.html#146|OK to drop the bottom panel? Team members can vote (you know who you are)]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 7/0/2)
** Voters knome, lderan, slickymaster-job, Unit193, ochosi, jjfrv8, pleia2, Noskcaj, GridCube
* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-02-13-19.01.log.html#216|Whiskermenu (+1) or application menu (-1)? -team can vote]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 6/4/1)
** Voters knome, micahg_work, skellat_ghost, lderan, slickymaster-job, jjfrv8, ochosi, Unit193, pleia2, Noskcaj, GridCube

=== Action items, by person ===

* ali1234
** ali1234 follows up on gtk3 indicator status
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
* knome
** knome to email the -devel list on scheduling the next meeting
* lderan
** lderan to create the individual merge proposals for the basix Xubuntu tests
* micahg
** ali1234 and micahg to follow up on gtk3 indicator stack issues
** micahg to talk with the DMB and separate -dev from upload rights so we can allow more people to push to xubuntu branches
** micahg to look at Noskcaj's MOTU application
* Noskcaj
** micahg to look at Noskcaj's MOTU application
** Noskcaj to be in touch with elfy on xkb-plugin testing
* pleia2
** pleia2 starts working on getting the Processes wikipage updated and cleaned
* Unit193
** Unit193 to do merge proposals for "X performs Y" styled listings for the docs

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (198)
* meetingology (73)
* ochosi (68)
* Unit193 (37)
* slickymaster-job (27)
* Noskcaj (20)
* pleia2 (19)
* lderan (17)
* micahg_work (16)
* jjfrv8 (7)
* brainwash (6)
* GridCube (4)
* ubottu (2)
* skellat_ghost (1)
* genii (1)
* ali12341 (1)
* ali1234 (0)
* micahg (0)
