{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Xubuntu team report for November, 2010'''

===== Bug Triage =====

* Still squashing bugs. This will be an on-going process.
 

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Inclusion of Xfce 4.7.x (future 4.8) is being worked on in natty.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* Xubuntu needs a Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Artwork =====

* We still need a good plymouth theme. 
* Charlie is working with the Ubuntu Artwork Team to draw a specification for xubuntu artwork in Natty Narwhal.
* ochosi is working on updating the faenza icon theme to include all icons.
* ochosi is updating the bluebird theme to create greybird for possible inclusion in Natty Narwhal.
** Feel free to check it out @ http://shimmerproject.org/hg/bluebird-colors > greybird.
* Xubuntu needs an Artwork Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to keep word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* We are attempting to submit new articles to Ubuntu Weekly News at least once a month about Xubuntu.
* A community meeting was held on 2010-11-18. It was decided that meetings will be held weekly through December on Thursdays.
* A community meeting was held on 2010-11-25. 
* Minutes and logs from the meetings are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings.
* Xubuntu needs to nominate and vote for a permanent Project Lead. Nominations are explained in https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2010-November/007614.html.

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu needs a Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel if interested or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com
