{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 02 May at 19:30 &mdash; 19:46 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2016/xubuntu-devel.2016-05-02-19.30.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 19:31.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 19:31.

* '''Milestone participation (flocculant)''' (19:31)
** Xubuntu will only do Final Beta for 16.10

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 19:32.

* '''Raspberry Pi images in 16.10 (dkessel)''' (19:33)
** ''ACTION:'' dkessel to draft a mail about pi image testing for 16.10, knome to review
** ''LINK:'' https://ubuntu-pi-flavour-maker.org/ 

==== New Project Lead (ochosi/knome) ====
The discussion about "New Project Lead (ochosi/knome)" started at 19:43.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 19:45.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to schedule next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* dkessel
** dkessel to draft a mail about pi image testing for 16.10, knome to review
* knome
** dkessel to draft a mail about pi image testing for 16.10, knome to review

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (52)
* flocculant (14)
* dkessel (8)
* meetingology (5)
* nairwolf (4)
* akxwi-dave (2)
* Unit193 (2)
* AuroraAvenue (1)
* pleia2 (1)
