{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== 2011-02-17 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===

* Old business - all
** Xubuntu marketing plans - carried forward
** shimmer project to move items pertaining to Xubuntu to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu
** We need to start either a ML item or webpage item for marketing

=== Team updates ===

==== Packaging & Development ====

* More syncs from debian experimental
* Updated xfce4-session and tumbler to the latest upstream releases
* More bugfixes/improvements for xubuntu-default-settings (Bug #79053, Bug #718177, mostly menu tuning, feedback welcome!)
** Launchpad bug 79053 in xfdesktop "Network menu entry is confusing (Xubuntu)" [Unknown,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/79053
** Launchpad bug 718177 in xubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "The current Xubuntu menu hides too many entries" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/718177
* Uploaded update-notifier to fix restarting with 4.8 (Bug #716905)
** Launchpad bug 716905 in update-notifier (Ubuntu Natty) "[Xubuntu] Unable to restart" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/716905
* Fixed a few plugins to work with the new panel (xfce4-weather-plugin, xfce4-timer-plugin).
* some bugs reported for the integration with ubiquity
* ochosi is working hard on making gmusicbrowser final for natty, should be ready next week before the freeze
 
==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

* This week we tested the iso images for 10.04.2. There are no issues blocking release.
* We need some testers and a new testing lead, if anyone is interested
* We need to have some more people looking at Natty, so we can get the feedback to mr_pouit and ochosi in time for any changes needed.
** We have Natty Alpha3 coming out in two weeks.
 
==== Website & Marketing ====

* Suggestion from ochosi - it would be great if the first page would show the slideshow that is shown during installation.
* it was also suggested that we make the news items more interesting, get more creative with something like "alpha 3 released - now with shiny chromium theme!"
* ochosi to write an article about artwork for publication as news on website
* ask knome to do some drafts with a grey background and a black background
* submit an RT to Canonical for wordpress
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing
* alpha3 will have all the artwork and theme changes

==== Artwork ====

* we need someone to update the slideshows displayed during the installation, they are badly outdated (they were made for karmic or lucid)
* knome can update the technical parts, if provided with natty information

==== Discuss panel launchers for natty ====

* after some discussion, the following was presented: Default panel launchers to be
** Desktop | Browser Email Musicplayer Terminal Abiword SoftwareCenter Appfinder | Folders

=== Updates for Xubuntu 10.04.2 ===

* Xubuntu 10.04.2 will be released on 2011-12-17

=== Announcements ===

* Xfce is starting on 4.10 now, to be ready in January 2012.
** It will include Accessibility built in, if it goes according to plan
** if it stays on schedule - ready for LTS release in April 2012

=== Any Other Business ===

* Next meeting is in one week, Frebruary 24, #ubuntu-meeting, at 19:00 UTC.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-02-17 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* proposal we take up the strategy document starting in three weeks, a bit at a time, the meeting of March 10.

=== Action items for the 2011-02-10 meeting ===

* ochosi and knome will put together some logo designs to be discussed as the menu icon
* ochosi and mr_pouit will change panel launchers to generic icons
* ochosi to write an article about artwork due for news on website

=== Action items for the 2011-02-17 meeting ===

* shimmer project to move items pertaining to Xubuntu to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu
* knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing
* find someone to update the slideshow

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

== 2011-02-17 Meeting Log ==

Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting

* People Present:

** charlie-tca
** knome
** ochosi
** Sysi
** mr_pouit
** micahg
** pleia2

[13:00:16] <charlie-tca> Welcome to the Xubuntu Weekly community meeting

[13:00:33] <charlie-tca> The full agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[13:00:53] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Old Business

[13:01:17] <charlie-tca> Since I am behind on the minutes, does anyone remember if there is any old business to discuss?

[13:01:37] <knome> marketing

[13:01:38] <knome> says agenda

[13:02:14] <knome> no - i think that's for the prev meetin

[13:02:16] <knome> +g

[13:02:19] <charlie-tca> Yes, we still need to create a marketing plan on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu

[13:02:36] <charlie-tca> any volunteers to do that?

[13:02:53] <ochosi> yeah, btw i'm sorry since i wasn't here the last couple of days i didn't manage to move the publicity-section from shimmer-wiki to the xubuntu wiki yet

[13:03:15] <charlie-tca> No problem, I remembered you were gonna be busy

[13:03:24] <knome> don't add a specific action for me, but i'll work on the marketing plan, probably with ochosi and mr_pouit (and maybe pleia2)

[13:03:52] <charlie-tca> and make it on the wiki?

[13:04:07] <knome> it would be great if ochosi could take the item so we can move our plans to the ubuntu wiki once we have something more

[13:04:28] <Sysi> knome suggested it for me once but i'll propably be just watching and trying to learn

[13:04:42] <charlie-tca> Okay, carried forward then

[13:04:51] <knome> i need to go toi toilet, but you could even make it a shimmer action

[13:04:51] <knome> :P

[13:04:55] <charlie-tca> (yes, i am in a bit of a hurry today)

[13:05:33] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] shimmer project to move items pertaining to Xubuntu to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu

[13:05:42] <charlie-tca> Thanks, knome

[13:06:09] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Team updates - Team Leads

[13:06:26] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Packaging & Development

[13:06:39] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: your turn for updating us

[13:07:00] <mr_pouit> okay, sorry for being late

[13:07:05] * charlie-tca thinks you got here right on time, packaging and development updates

[13:07:22] <mr_pouit> * More syncs from debian experimental

[13:07:23] <mr_pouit> * Updated xfce4-session and tumbler to the latest upstream releases

[13:07:35] <mr_pouit> * More bugfixes/improvements for xubuntu-default-settings (Bug #79053, Bug #718177, mostly menu tuning, feedback welcome!)

[13:07:38] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 79053 in xfdesktop "Network menu entry is confusing (Xubuntu)" [Unknown,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/79053

[13:07:39] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 718177 in xubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "The current Xubuntu menu hides too many entries" [Undecided,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/718177

[13:07:47] <mr_pouit> * Uploaded update-notifier to fix restarting with 4.8 (Bug #716905)

[13:07:49] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 716905 in update-notifier (Ubuntu Natty) "[Xubuntu] Unable to restart" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/716905

[13:07:59] <mr_pouit> * Fixed a few plugins to work with the new panel (xfce4-weather-plugin, xfce4-timer-plugin).

[13:08:04] <charlie-tca> I want to say the weather plugin is working in Natty now

[13:08:10] <mr_pouit> great

[13:08:25] <mr_pouit> and some bugs reported for the integration with ubiquity

[13:08:41] <mr_pouit> that's all

[13:08:43] <charlie-tca> You have been busy!

[13:08:53] <mr_pouit> as I wrote, some feedback is welcome for the menu

[13:08:54] <charlie-tca> Thank you for your hard work.

[13:09:34] <ochosi> one more quick note in the packaging department from me: i'm working hard on making gmusicbrowser final for natty, should be ready next week before the freeze

[13:09:45] <ochosi> iirc micahg does the packaging of that one?

[13:10:08] <charlie-tca> yup

[13:10:11] <mr_pouit> (yeah, the two remaining items are a new elementary-icon-theme release and gmusicbrowser)

[13:10:22] <charlie-tca> and the wallpaper, right?

[13:10:32] <knome> that isn't a "feature" ?

[13:10:38] <micahg> yeah, I've been trying, I need to get someone to show me how to get the debian upstream dir not to import

[13:10:46] <ochosi> yep about elementary icons: talked with upstream today, they will do a new release for us in time for the feature freeze and will also accept our packages until then

[13:10:49] <mr_pouit> yeah, but it can be uploaded after feature freeze (next thursday)

[13:10:54] <mr_pouit> (the wp)

[13:10:57] <charlie-tca> okay

[13:11:04] <ochosi> micahg: can we talk about gmusicbrowser in #xubuntu-devel after the meeting?

[13:11:08] <mr_pouit> for the icon theme and gmb, it's easier it they are ready before that :)

[13:11:16] <mr_pouit> s/it/if/

[13:11:28] <charlie-tca> micahg: mr_pouit or cody-somerville should be able to help with that, can't they?

[13:11:53] <micahg> charlie-tca: well, it's a git issue

[13:11:58] <charlie-tca> oh

[13:12:11] <charlie-tca> any other questions for Packaging and Development?

[13:12:36] <charlie-tca> thank you, mr_pouit.

[13:12:53] <mr_pouit> :)

[13:13:03] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Bug Triage & Testing

[13:13:22] <charlie-tca> Busy couple of weeks. This week we tested the iso images for 10.04.2

[13:13:30] <charlie-tca> and they passed

[13:13:59] <charlie-tca> I fell down on bugs again, but will pick them up next week

[13:14:21] <charlie-tca> We need some testers and probably a new testing lead, if anyone is interested

[13:15:37] <charlie-tca> We need to have some more people looking at Natty, so we can get the feedback to mr_pouit and ochosi in time for any changes needed.

[13:15:52] <charlie-tca> We have Natty Alpha3 coming out in two weeks.

[13:16:15] <ochosi> mhm, good point

[13:16:21] <ochosi> > marketing?

[13:16:34] <charlie-tca> Xubuntu 10.04.2 will be released either today or tomorrow, depending on testing for Kubuntu and Ubuntu

[13:16:58] <charlie-tca> what marketing?

[13:17:23] <charlie-tca> did I get lost again?

[13:17:25] <knome> next topic?

[13:17:44] <Sysi> i didn't get alpha2 to boot from usb, syslinux config fail

[13:17:46] <charlie-tca> any questions on bugs and testing?

[13:17:51] <ochosi> (no i meant: maybe getting more people to test is also an issue for marketing)

[13:17:54] <charlie-tca> Sysi: correct

[13:18:15] <knome> i suppose it's an issue for anything

[13:18:27] <charlie-tca> If you create the image on 10.10 or 10.04, you have to type "live" or " help" at the boot: prompt

[13:18:30] <charlie-tca> then it will work

[13:18:46] <charlie-tca> and I don't know why

[13:18:54] <mr_pouit> I guess unity is getting all attention, that's why we have less testers

[13:19:04] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Website & Marketing

[13:19:22] <charlie-tca> We do have users running Natty, and they are quite happy so far

[13:19:41] <charlie-tca> anyone have an update on this? pleia2 or knome maybe?

[13:20:05] <knome> no updates. i suppose pleia2 should investigate if we can switch to wordpres

[13:20:09] <knome> +s

[13:20:09] <pleia2> I was supposed to ask knome to do some drafts with a grey background and a black background as some folks requested at the last meeting, but I didn't

[13:20:21] <knome> pleia2, well now you did :)

[13:20:25] <pleia2> :)

[13:20:35] <charlie-tca> I am sorry, it would have helped if I had gotten the minutes out

[13:20:51] <pleia2> not sure who I can follow up with re: wordpress, would that be cody? or canonical?

[13:21:11] <knome> pleia2, probably canonical IS would be the best place to ask

[13:21:12] <charlie-tca> I don't know for sure

[13:21:30] <charlie-tca> I think it is Canonical, though

[13:21:30] <knome> pleia2, afaik cody can't decide anything (he can help on us getting what we want though)

[13:21:40] <pleia2> ok, I can submit an rt ticket to get things started

[13:21:45] <charlie-tca> okay

[13:21:52] <knome> pleia2, err, if there is any other way, please use that

[13:21:59] <charlie-tca> You want an action for any of that?

[13:22:06] <knome> it took over two years for my last rt tickets to go through

[13:22:12] <knome> and they were really trivial

[13:22:31] <pleia2> knome: the process I tend to find works best is submit rt ticket, then join #canonical-sysadmin after a couple weeks and ask directly :)

[13:22:53] <knome> pleia2, sure, feel free to ask me to join as well

[13:22:58] <charlie-tca> It helps to know how to push

[13:23:01] <pleia2> but they are currently under a lot of pressure to upgrade the wiki, so I'm not hopeful that they'll have time in the super near future

[13:23:14] <pleia2> (they have wiki plans that are being put into place these next few weeks, yay!)

[13:23:21] <charlie-tca> A nice change for O maybe?

[13:23:27] <knome> pleia2, also, do you have time to look at the website later today - let's say at 22 or 23 utc?

[13:23:49] <pleia2> knome: I can try, I don't get out of work until 1UTC

[13:24:02] <knome> okay. ping me @ #shimmer

[13:24:05] <pleia2> k

[13:24:10] <knome> anyway, i have a proposal

[13:24:13] <charlie-tca> Thank you for the update, pleia2.

[13:24:24] <knome> let's arrange a skype meeting to discuss the marketing plans

[13:24:34] <charlie-tca> knome: proposal for here or for pleia2 ?

[13:24:34] <knome> as well as possible changes to the xubuntu strategy document

[13:24:38] <knome> here

[13:24:53] <charlie-tca> go ahead

[13:24:59] <knome> ^ there you go ;)

[13:25:13] <charlie-tca> Don't we all need skype to do that?

[13:25:31] <knome> yeah. we can do any other voip-call as well, if skype is a problem

[13:25:52] <charlie-tca> I don't have any, but you can conference me in, if needed

[13:25:58] <knome> but i think it would make much more sense if we could really discuss things

[13:26:08] <Sysi> does everybody have a microphone?

[13:26:09] <knome> not only by typing

[13:26:17] <knome> arrangeable, i think

[13:26:23] <charlie-tca> No, but I can get one

[13:26:27] <knome> i'm not proposing on keeping the meeting now, but arranging one later

[13:26:56] <charlie-tca> okay, knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing

[13:26:57] <knome> you can add an action item for me to do some preparation stuff for that

[13:27:22] <Sysi> (mumble?)

[13:27:23] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] knome is to set up a tele-conference of some type to discuss marketing

[13:27:41] <charlie-tca> leaves it nicely open to what ever can be done

[13:27:46] <knome> ...as well as the strategy document and the future of xubuntu

[13:27:52] <knome> :)

[13:28:12] <charlie-tca> I don't think I can hit that one today, but it is still in the minutes, too

[13:28:22] <charlie-tca> I keep carrying it forward

[13:28:26] <knome> sure

[13:28:35] <charlie-tca> visibility counts

[13:29:06] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] artwork

[13:29:10] <mr_pouit> Not an update, but a todo item: we need someone to update the slideshows displayed during the installation, they are badly outdated (they were made for karmic or lucid)

[13:29:23] <mr_pouit> (sorry, that was for marketing)

[13:29:24] <charlie-tca> valid point

[13:29:30] <ochosi> yeah, true

[13:29:31] <charlie-tca> that is artwork too

[13:29:41] <knome> artwork but documentation as well

[13:29:55] <charlie-tca> That just hits everything, huh?

[13:30:02] <knome> mmh

[13:30:10] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] find someone to update the slideshow

[13:30:22] <knome> i can work on the technical/artwork side

[13:30:27] <charlie-tca> ochosi: any updates?

[13:30:28] <knome> but i need somebody who knows natty

[13:30:43] <charlie-tca> I kind of know natty

[13:30:47] <ochosi> hm, yeah, small updates

[13:31:07] <ochosi> mr_pouit helped me figure out the last remaining issues for panel-plugins in greybird

[13:31:15] <charlie-tca> knome: we will get together somehow on it

[13:31:15] <ochosi> i think in alpha3 everything should work great

[13:31:17] <Sysi> i'll be testing natty (and i have archlinux with xfce 4.8)

[13:31:33] <ochosi> but the changes are not comitted yet

[13:32:00] <ochosi> i have to test it a bit more and and clean up the code for the panel in greybird (which i couldn't do yet since i was away till today)

[13:32:35] <ochosi> the xfwm theme is still missing the stick-button, but i'll add the one from bluebird for now, i think it'll work ok and then the xfwm-theme is also complete

[13:33:22] <charlie-tca> ochosi: can it be done by Feature Freeze on the 24th?

[13:33:40] <ochosi> those two items can be done, yes

[13:33:47] <ochosi> i'm also looking for problems in the icon theme

[13:33:55] <ochosi> so far everything seems ok

[13:34:02] <charlie-tca> ouch, I forgot, I got one more for you

[13:34:03] <ochosi> especially after i've done the appfinder-icon

[13:34:09] <ochosi> yes?

[13:34:26] <mr_pouit> (even if it's not fully ready, it's more bugfixes than new features, so it's ok to upload later imho)

[13:34:38] <charlie-tca> change the cursor color and size, it reverts to default in parts of the desktop and windows

[13:35:03] <ochosi> cursor-color and size means mouse-cursor?

[13:35:11] <charlie-tca> yes

[13:35:18] <ochosi> hm, to be honest i

[13:35:26] <ochosi> 've never dealt with the mouse pointer

[13:35:28] <charlie-tca> It will be the changed cursor in the window, then revert in the title bar

[13:35:33] <Sysi> charlie-tca: for what i know it's common 4.8 problem

[13:35:42] <charlie-tca> darn

[13:35:54] <charlie-tca> Thanks, Sysi

[13:36:13] <Sysi> (have it on arch too)

[13:36:31] <ochosi> k, so i guess that's an upstream bugreport, not artwork :)

[13:36:36] <charlie-tca> Well, never mind then

[13:36:38] <mr_pouit> yeah, it was present in 4.6 already

[13:36:56] <charlie-tca> Any questions or comments for artwork?

[13:36:59] <Sysi> but it's after X restart too?

[13:37:07] <ochosi> ok, if anyone finds other missing or problematic icons in elementary (pulled from launchpad/bzr), please let me know

[13:37:36] <charlie-tca> It depends on the theme, Sysi

[13:38:02] <charlie-tca> some do it no matter what, others are not as bad when starting, but get worse over time

[13:38:20] <Sysi> still propably upstream thing

[13:38:25] <charlie-tca> yeah

[13:38:38] <charlie-tca> since it does spread itself over many themes

[13:38:52] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC]Discuss panel launchers for natty

[13:38:57] <ochosi> ok, the generic icons/launchers should also be ready for natty, haven't tested them yet personally

[13:39:25] <charlie-tca> Are they in natty, or need to be downloaded?

[13:39:38] <ochosi> should be uploaded already

[13:39:53] <ochosi> right mr_pouit ?

[13:40:00] <knome> left charlie-tca

[13:40:04] <knome> har har

[13:40:05] <charlie-tca> I will be testing the images this weekend

[13:40:07] <knome> :)

[13:40:17] <ochosi> what a funny knome :)

[13:40:20] <ochosi> ok great

[13:40:56] <mr_pouit> yep, uploaded already

[13:41:00] <charlie-tca> Thank you, ochosi and mr_pouit

[13:41:12] <charlie-tca> anything else for the default launchers?

[13:41:14] <ochosi> my suggestion for panel items would be something like: Desktop | Browser Email Musicplayer Terminal Abiword | Folders and maybe Trash

[13:41:27] <ochosi> oh, and Software Center

[13:42:00] <Sysi> terminal in panel is.. handy but questionable

[13:42:10] <charlie-tca> software center ? people really use that?

[13:42:31] <Sysi> i think advertising it would be good

[13:42:41] <charlie-tca> I agree with the panel launcher list as presented then

[13:42:43] <ochosi> oh, and Appfinder

[13:42:47] <Sysi> if it fits our target groups

[13:43:30] <ochosi> ok

[13:43:45] <Sysi> personally i've never used appfinder, and would it give good picture about xubuntu?

[13:43:54] <charlie-tca> [IDEA] Default panel launchers to be Desktop | Browser Email Musicplayer Terminal Abiword SoftwareCenter Appfinder | Folders

[13:44:08] <charlie-tca> appfinder is xfce specific and it is great

[13:44:15] <ochosi> +1

[13:44:24] <Sysi> though i don't see real promlems in about anything added to panel

[13:44:33] <ochosi> and: it will get even better in xfce 4.10

[13:44:37] <charlie-tca> It lets you find any app on the computer, whether or not they show in the menus

[13:45:21] <charlie-tca> and it is fast. I have been using in Natty, since we didn't have a menu when I upgraded.

[13:46:00] <charlie-tca> I did tell a gnome guy to use one day, that was bad

[13:46:18] <charlie-tca> s/use one/use appfinder one

[13:46:54] <charlie-tca> any other comments on launchers?

[13:46:58] <ochosi> sry people, g2g

[13:47:04] <ochosi> will read the log tomorrow

[13:47:06] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Announcements

[13:47:31] <charlie-tca> I have one announcement - Xfce is starting on 4.10 now, to be ready in January 2012.

[13:47:48] <charlie-tca> It will include Accessibility built in, if it goes according to plan

[13:48:19] <charlie-tca> and if it stays on schedule - ready for LTS release in April 2012

[13:48:31] <mr_pouit> thunar 1.3.0 is already out (first development release for 4.10)

[13:48:55] <charlie-tca> Thanks, ochosi

[13:49:06] <charlie-tca> late agaibn

[13:49:38] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

[13:49:53] <charlie-tca> Does anyone have anything further for this meeting?

[13:50:37] <charlie-tca> I propose we take up the strategy document starting in three weeks, a bit at a time.

[13:50:55] <charlie-tca> the meeting of March 10 is what I am thinking

[13:51:44] <charlie-tca> I want to thank everyone for attending and participating in this meeting.

[13:52:10] <charlie-tca> we will have another meeting in one week, 2011-02-24 at 19:00 UTC

[13:52:22] <charlie-tca> Thanks, all

[13:52:34] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

Meeting ended.
