{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 2011-07-31 Meeting Minutes ===

The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

==== Old Business ====

* Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward
* GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu - Carried Forward

==== Team updates ====
===== Packaging & Development =====

* we're back under 700MB on the CDs again
* evince is going to remain as the default pdf reader
* still waiting on the desktop team for the new transmission and removal of libnotify1 from the CD (blocked on MIRs)
* we now ship a microblogging client (pidgin-microblog)
* pavucontrol and pastebinit need to be added to the defaults
* look at the possibility of adding midori as a second browser
* Launchpad bug 800918 in xubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "Some wallpaper/backdrops ideas" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/800918

===== Bug Triage & Testing =====

* We now have a live session, but you must restart and install from the cd menu
* We should be seeing more bug reports against oneiric
* 
* Alpha3 testing starts Tuesday.
* Keep the bugs coming in, please
** We are tracking the Oneiric bugs at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Bugs/OneiricOcelot

===== Website & Marketing =====

* beardygnome brought up the ability to add the Xfce news feed to the Xubuntu website.
   This seems like a very good idea, since Xubuntu is based on Xfce, and it would help to keep us informed of any changes being planned.
* beardygnome wrote another awesome review which was replied to here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-July/007898.html
** fixed most things, but I asked some questions there, particularly about documentation and translations stuff I don't understand (so can't fix on the site)
* there is also an outstanding bug that the site isn't translatable, if someone familiar with doing translations and wordpress is around please contact either charlie-tca or pleia2 in #xubuntu-devel about how to handle the site moving forward

===== Artwork =====

* We could use help testing a new plymouth in Oneiric Ocelot.
** http://www.madnick.se/~madnick/xubuntu
** Please contact charlie-tca or madnick in #xubuntu-devel to help test this
* we need a lightdm theme - madnick will work this
* there's a git-repo for greybird
** https://github.com/shimmerproject/Greybird
* can't themes be added to a ppa so when an update to the theme is done we can see it on the update manager?

===== Documentation =====

* We need someone that can go through the wiki documentation and update it.

==== Announcements ====

* The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-08-08 at 19:00 UTC
* Important dates coming up:
** 11.10 Alpha 3: August 4, 2011
** soft freeze will be August 1 at 1200 UTC
** 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011
** 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011
** UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.
** UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

==== Any Other Business ====

* we should try to get the defaults down this week so we can test drive them right after alpha3 (like next Monday maybe we can vote/decide/draw straws)
* discussion about gimp and a simple editor. Please see the comparisons done at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Specifications/Oneiric/DefaultImageEditor
** Possible to replace ristretto with gthumb instead of replacing gimp?
* to subscribe to the xubuntu-devel mailing list, go to
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings/Archive/Minutes/2011-07-31 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>
* Discussion about apples and oranges; apples win

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure
* Two weeks left for current review of revision to Strategy Document concerning electing a Project Lead. email sent to both ML for review.

==== Action items ====

* madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter
* GridCube to do comparison chart for gpicview, ristretto, gthumb - Done

<<BR>>
<<BR>>

=== 2011-07-31 Meeting Log ===

The full logs can found in original form at
http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2011/07/31/%23xubuntu-devel.txt

=== People present ===

* charlie-tca
* micahg
* GridCube
* madnick
* knome
* Unit193
* astraljava
* beardygnome
* pleia2

=== Full Log ===

[22:00] <charlie-tca> #startmeeting

[22:00] <charlie-tca> Welcome to the Xubuntu Community Team meeting

[22:00] <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

[22:01] <charlie-tca> * Old business

[22:01] <charlie-tca> * Team updates

[22:01] <charlie-tca>   * Packaging & Development

[22:01] <charlie-tca>   * Bug Triage & Testing

[22:01] <charlie-tca>   * Website & Marketing

[22:01] <charlie-tca>   * Artwork

[22:01] <charlie-tca>   * Documentation

[22:01] <charlie-tca> * Announcements

[22:01] <charlie-tca> * Governance structure

[22:01] <charlie-tca> * Any Other Business

[22:01] <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

[22:01] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC} === Old Business ===

[22:02] <charlie-tca>  * Charlie to dig for the xscreensaver updates, and put in an SRU - Carried Forward

[22:03] <charlie-tca> Still no time to dig for this. If anyone has time, feel free to jump on it.

[22:03] <charlie-tca>  * micahg to find what Ubuntu-desktop does with java in restricted-extras - Email sent

[22:03] <micahg> o/

[22:03] <charlie-tca> micahg: any response?

[22:03] <micahg> yeah, chatted with mvo, he's ok with moving it somewhere else, but the issue is space, I'm going to start a discussion on the desktop ML

[22:04] <micahg> it's already on the DVD

[22:04] <charlie-tca> But they removed it from the cd?

[22:04] <micahg> never was on the CD

[22:04] <charlie-tca> oh

[22:04] <charlie-tca> okay

[22:04] <charlie-tca> Thanks for following up on it

[22:05] <charlie-tca>  * GridCube to put together the "TOP 10" for Xubuntu

[22:05] <charlie-tca> GridCube: any update ?

[22:05] <GridCube> :) I just finished my exams this week, im starting that up

[22:05] <GridCube> will take some time tho

[22:05] <GridCube> ..

[22:06] <charlie-tca> Thank you

[22:06] <charlie-tca>  * start ML discussion on panels, reviews of current panels, launchers on panels, etc - Done

[22:06] <charlie-tca> I did this with mixed results

[22:06] <charlie-tca> ochosi: back yet?

[22:06] <charlie-tca> we got a lot of responses, most of which boil down to anything is fine, as long as it looks good and is changeable

[22:07] <GridCube> I think that most people just change it so they cant say what it looked on first install

[22:07] <charlie-tca> Well, that and the ones that don't are happy

[22:07] <charlie-tca>  * madnick to look into plymouth theme, with help from knome and ochosi for animations - Done

[22:07] <madnick> o/

[22:07] <charlie-tca> madnick: go ahead

[22:08] <madnick> I've been working all week with this and is close to done, and me and knome agree'd on some changes today

[22:08] <madnick> And I have been testing on ATI, Nvdia and no drivers, and it seems good

[22:08] <madnick> the stuff is here: http://www.madnick.se/~madnick/xubuntu for those interested in how it looks, opinions is nice

[22:08] <madnick> ..

[22:08] <charlie-tca> Great!

[22:09] <charlie-tca> Many thanks for taking that on and working it.

[22:09] <madnick> :)

[22:09] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: looks like we will have the plymouth splash working for us in Oneiric!

[22:09] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Team updates ===

[22:09] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Packaging & Development ====

[22:09] <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: Are you here?

[22:10] <charlie-tca> If not, micahg?

[22:10] <micahg> so, we're back under 700MB on the CDs again

[22:10] <micahg> the messaging indicator has returned in oneiric

[22:10] <charlie-tca> Yay!

[22:11] <micahg> still waiting on the desktop team for the new transmission and removal of libnotify1 from the CD (blocked on MIRs)

[22:11] <charlie-tca> Are we reverting evince?

[22:11] <micahg> any seed changes need to be done tonight for alpha3, otherwise, it'll wait until thursday

[22:12] <micahg> I reverted to evince in the seeds, but didn't bother doing an upload for it

[22:12] <micahg> so, epdfview is gone

[22:12] <charlie-tca> okay, and pastebinit ?

[22:12] <micahg> oh, and we now ship a microblogging client (pidgin-microblog)

[22:13] <micahg> haven't added pastebinit yet, do we want that for alpha3?

[22:13] <charlie-tca> It can be done after alpha3, I just didn't want to forget it

[22:13] <charlie-tca> Anything we need a heads on for feature freeze exceptions?

[22:14] <micahg> are we making our own greeter or using the GTK greeter that lightdm provides?

[22:14] <charlie-tca> um, great question

[22:14] <charlie-tca> ochosi or knome got anything on that?

[22:14] <micahg> I'm not aware of anything else that will need an FFe

[22:15] <micahg> ochosi mentioned a new version of gmusicbrowser possibly

[22:15] <charlie-tca> I don't mind either way, but I would like lightdm to keep our usernames

[22:15] <knome> hmm?

[22:15] <knome> about what?

[22:15] <charlie-tca> Do we have anyone working on a lightdm theme?

[22:16] <charlie-tca> or shall we keep the provided greeter?

[22:16] <knome> not yet at least

[22:16] <GridCube> if we have a plymouth theme we need a greeter too, just saying

[22:16] <madnick> i can look into that too, if you like

[22:16] <charlie-tca> well, it would be nice, but the one we are using isn't bad

[22:16] <charlie-tca> if you don't mind pink

[22:17] <micahg> we can customize a little once the config file is available (like no guest session)

[22:17] <charlie-tca> madnick: please do, if you have time

[22:17] <madnick> time is all i got :P

[22:17] <charlie-tca> Yeah, the guest session fails for Xubuntu

[22:18] <micahg> ..

[22:18] <charlie-tca> Thank you, micahg

[22:18] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] madnick to look into building a lightdm greeter

[22:19] <charlie-tca> Any questions for packaging and development?

[22:19] <GridCube> no

[22:19] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

[22:20] <charlie-tca> We should be seeing more bug reports against oneiric

[22:20] <charlie-tca> Testing has had issues, mostly with no images

[22:20] <charlie-tca> We now have a live session, but you must restart and install from the cd menu

[22:20] <Unit193> As there haven't been working ones this week, I haven't tested all that much

[22:20] <charlie-tca> Alpha3 candidates will be tested this week, starting Tuesday

[22:21] <charlie-tca> Any questions/comments for Testing and Bugs?

[22:21] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Website & Marketing ====

[22:21] <pleia2> o/

[22:22] <charlie-tca> pleia2: go ahead, please

[22:22] <pleia2> beardygnome wrote another awesome review which I replied to here: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2011-July/007898.html

[22:22] <pleia2> fixed most things, but I asked some questions there, particularly about documentation and translations stuff I don't understand (so can't fix on the site)

[22:23] <charlie-tca> I thought I answered those, maybe it was only in my mind :(

[22:23] <pleia2> charlie-tca: that's was the first review :)

[22:23] <pleia2> this is the second review!

[22:23] <charlie-tca> Reviews are hard to keep up with, I guess

[22:23] <pleia2> no need to reply now, just wanted to mention that it's hanging out there

[22:24] <charlie-tca> I will go find it and send out some responses, even if they are wrong

[22:24] <pleia2> thank you

[22:24] <pleia2> knome: any updates on wordpress theme?

[22:25] <pleia2> there is also an outstanding bug that the site isn't translatable, if someone familiar with doing translations and wordpress is around I'd be interested in talking to them about how to handle the site moving forward

[22:26] <pleia2> (or if anyone knows someone)

[22:26] <pleia2> ..

[22:26] <charlie-tca> Hopefully, it will be easier to translate than drupal

[22:26] <charlie-tca> Thank you very much, pleia2

[22:26] <charlie-tca> Any questions for website?

[22:27] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] ==== Artwork ====

[22:27] <charlie-tca> ochosi is on holiday.

[22:27] <charlie-tca> We covered the plymouth and lightdm parts

[22:27] <charlie-tca> anything else for artwork?

[22:28] <GridCube> O/

[22:28] <charlie-tca> go ahead, GridCube

[22:28] <GridCube> bug 800918

[22:28] <ubottu> Launchpad bug 800918 in xubuntu-default-settings (Ubuntu) "Some wallpaper/backdrops ideas" [Wishlist,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/800918

[22:28] <GridCube> XD im still bothering people whit this

[22:28] <charlie-tca> Always good to stay on top of things you want

[22:28] <madnick> o/

[22:29] <charlie-tca> We might have to get micahg and mr_pouit on that soon

[22:29] <charlie-tca> madnick: go ahead

[22:29] <GridCube> ok :) thanks

[22:29] <madnick> what "mode" are we using for lightdm? webkit? or like gtk?

[22:30] <micahg> madnick: I'd say GTK

[22:30] <madnick> micahg: thanks

[22:30] <madnick> ..

[22:31] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Announcements ===

[22:32] <charlie-tca>  * The next meeting will be on Monday, 2011-08-08 at 19:00 UTC

[22:32] <charlie-tca>  * Important dates coming up:

[22:32] <charlie-tca>   * 11.10 Alpha 3: August 4, 2011

[22:32] <charlie-tca>    * soft freeze will be August 1 at 1200 UTC

[22:32] <charlie-tca>   * 11.10 FeatureFreeze : August 11, 2011

[22:32] <charlie-tca>   * 11.10 Release Date: October 13, 2011

[22:32] <charlie-tca>   * UDS-P will be in Orlando, Florida the week of October 31 - Nov 4. Please apply for sponsorship by August 24.

[22:32] <charlie-tca>   * UDS-P information at http://ubuntu-news.org/2011/07/15/ubuntu-developer-summit-sponsorship-now-open-2/

[22:33] <charlie-tca> Did I miss anything?

[22:33] <charlie-tca> [TOPIC] === Any Other Business ===

[22:33] <micahg> o/

[22:33] <GridCube> o/

[22:33] <charlie-tca> o/

[22:33] <charlie-tca> Go ahead, micahg

[22:34] <micahg> we should try to get the defaults down this week so we can test drive them right after alpha3 (like next Monday maybe we can vote/decide/draw straws)

[22:34] <micahg> ..

[22:34] <charlie-tca> sure thing

[22:35] <charlie-tca> I would guess the biggest one is whether to replace gimp.

[22:35]  * astraljava can assist on that, if needed

[22:35] <charlie-tca> GridCube: go ahead

[22:35] <GridCube> thats what i wanted to talk about, replacing gimp.

[22:35] <charlie-tca> sure

[22:35] <GridCube> i think the best idea yet is getting a superior replacement for ristretto

[22:36] <GridCube> making gimp superflous

[22:36] <charlie-tca> Thank you for the comparison chart

[22:36] <charlie-tca> You mean something for viewing, or something like shotwell or gthumb?

[22:36] <GridCube> I'm thinking on dividing it now, one for viewers whit edition capabilities

[22:36] <GridCube> i guess shotwell and gthum

[22:37] <GridCube> kind of programs should be the ones considered

[22:37] <GridCube> whit media sharing capabilities would made them a huge plus

[22:37] <GridCube> then having gimp, or not, wont matter anymore

[22:37] <charlie-tca> I can agree with that. To better serve the current technology of today, we really should have something capable of photo viewing, downloading, and editing

[22:38] <charlie-tca> but I still like gimp

[22:38] <GridCube> sure, but its for a single file working

[22:38] <charlie-tca> any comments on adding a photo editor?

[22:38] <beardygnome> i like gimp too, but it think it is too much for the default

[22:39] <charlie-tca> which one is better, gthumb or shotwell?

[22:39] <GridCube> will do a comparison chart for them

[22:39] <charlie-tca> or something else? what do you people with cameras use?

[22:39] <charlie-tca> Thanks, GridCube

[22:39] <beardygnome> shotwell is more of a photo library like picasa than a photo viewer/editor

[22:39] <GridCube> we need to come whit some "what do we want it to do" comparison points

[22:40] <GridCube> yes i think that too

[22:40] <beardygnome> so i'd say gthumb

[22:40]  * astraljava always loved gthumb

[22:40] <charlie-tca> Do we need a comparison chart then?

[22:40] <beardygnome> but i use gpicview personally

[22:40] <charlie-tca> oh

[22:41] <GridCube> i do use gpicview

[22:41] <GridCube> i would rather see it installed instead of ristretto, at least,

[22:41] <charlie-tca> micahg: will we need a freeze exception to change seeds for this?

[22:42] <beardygnome> GridCube: i remove ristretto as son as install xubuntu :-)

[22:42] <astraljava> Didn't he say he had to leave?

[22:42] <charlie-tca> yes, but I was hoping

[22:42] <astraljava> But I would think not, feature freeze is still a couple of weeks from now.

[22:42] <charlie-tca> It is the week after alpha3

[22:42] <astraljava> Oh, so 1Â½ weeks from now?

[22:43] <charlie-tca> GridCube: I think we can skip the comparison. I will discuss this with mr_pouit and micahg directly

[22:43] <charlie-tca> astraljava: yes

[22:43] <GridCube> ok

[22:43] <GridCube> I propose changing ristretto for gpicview should do it for now

[22:43] <charlie-tca> Any negative votes on gpicview?

[22:44] <astraljava> How big dependency-line does it have?

[22:44] <charlie-tca> about 10

[22:45] <astraljava> Oh, not that big. Should fall within already-provided category.

[22:45] <charlie-tca> we have them already

[22:45] <astraljava> Only 6, cool.

[22:45] <charlie-tca> Does gpicview allow cropping and resizing photos?

[22:45] <beardygnome> no, it's just a viewer

[22:46] <GridCube> just rotates them

[22:46] <beardygnome> better than ristretto, imo

[22:46]  * charlie-tca thinks of the possiblity of keeping gimp and having gpicview

[22:47] <charlie-tca> Okay, I will get with the devs on it then

[22:47] <charlie-tca> anything else?

[22:47] <GridCube> not from me :) Just thanks again to all of you for making xubuntu

[22:47] <astraljava> Sorry, still on the photo issue;

[22:48] <charlie-tca> I have been working to revise the Xubuntu Strategy Document. It does a poor job of getting a new leader chosen.

[22:48] <astraljava> gpicview + gimp exceeds 5M, while gthumb is less than 1M (whatever size apt-cache gives)

[22:48] <charlie-tca> but we have room

[22:48] <astraljava> Oh, okay. Carry on, then. :D

[22:48] <astraljava> ..

[22:48] <charlie-tca> If the only reason to replace gimp is cd space, we have no issue

[22:49] <charlie-tca> I have sent emails out to both mailing lists requesting comments on my proposed change to the Strategy Document.

[22:49] <GridCube> :) im trying gthumb now and it can do everything needed on the chart, rotates, crops, changes formats etc...

[22:49] <charlie-tca> It gives clear guidance on how the next project leader will be selected.

[22:50] <GridCube> I've read them, still i do not understand them :(

[22:50] <charlie-tca> I am giving a two week comment period for it. I will publish the email again in one week

[22:50] <charlie-tca> GridCube: the changes I propose?

[22:50] <GridCube> the whole thing, its too technical and legalical

[22:51] <charlie-tca> yup

[22:51] <charlie-tca> we have to keep it that way to cover the legal end of things

[22:51] <GridCube> oh the new one is easier to read

[22:52] <GridCube> :D good luck whit that

[22:52] <charlie-tca> basically, I am proposing that the launchpad team Xubuntu Users will elect the Project Lead by a simple vote

[22:52] <charlie-tca> Majority of votes will win, second highest vote count will be interim lead if needed

[22:53] <charlie-tca> Only those people belonging to Xubuntu Users will be allowed to vote for the Project Lead

[22:53] <GridCube> I see

[22:53] <GridCube> :) thanks for clearing that

[22:53] <charlie-tca> Please send you comments by reply to the mailing lists, either for or against the change

[22:53] <beardygnome> charlie-tca: that's a change to the current process, right?

[22:53] <charlie-tca> yes

[22:54] <charlie-tca> current process is kind of sketchy.

[22:54] <charlie-tca> Current process:

[22:54] <charlie-tca> The Xubuntu project lead serves a term of three releases after which he

[22:54] <charlie-tca> or she must seek reconfirmation from the Xubuntu community via a public

[22:54] <charlie-tca> meeting. If consesus is unable to be found, the matter is referred to

[22:54] <charlie-tca> the Ubuntu Community Council.

[22:55] <charlie-tca> I think that leaves it pretty much difficult to follow

[22:55] <charlie-tca> How did that project lead get there in the first place?

[22:56] <charlie-tca> Any questions?

[22:56] <charlie-tca> GridCube: Are we wanting to compare gthumb and gpicview?

[22:57] <GridCube> If you wish, its pretty straight foward, gpicview can do 6 things, gthumb sevel dozens

[22:57] <beardygnome> i think that's like comparing apples and oranges....

[22:57] <beardygnome> gpicview is just a viewer

[22:58] <GridCube> those 6 things gpicview does are pretty useful tho, it rotates images, and moves trough a directory, and saves formats you wish

[22:58] <beardygnome> i think we should compare gpicview with ristretto

[22:58] <charlie-tca> okay, lets do it the comparison chart then

[22:58] <charlie-tca> [ACTION] GridCube to do comparison chart for gpicview, ristretto, gthumb

[22:58] <GridCube> :D will do it now

[22:59] <charlie-tca> Anything else to discuss?

[22:59] <charlie-tca> Thank you all for attending this meeting.

[22:59] <GridCube> beardygnome, said something about oranges an apples, we should see about that :P

[22:59] <charlie-tca> We need participants to have a successful Xubuntu Operating System!

[22:59] <charlie-tca> I tried comparing apples and oranges. Apples won here

[23:00] <charlie-tca> I much prefer them over oranges

[23:00] <GridCube> indeed, you cant make and orange pie, it just doesnt work

[23:00] <charlie-tca> apples can be eaten after washing, oranges can not

[23:01] <charlie-tca> sorry, beardygnome

[23:01]  * charlie-tca just had to say it

[23:01] <charlie-tca> anything else?

[23:01] <knome> why can't you wash oranges and then eat them?

[23:01] <charlie-tca> the skin is kind of bitter

[23:01] <knome> but it's edible

[23:02] <charlie-tca> depends on what you are used to, I guess

[23:02] <astraljava> Sure, but it's used as a flavor in some dishes. :)

[23:02] <knome> it is edible in theory at least

[23:02] <charlie-tca> I have used it in cooking, but not raw

[23:02] <beardygnome> better in marmalade than on its own...

[23:02] <knome> i prefer apples anyway

[23:02]  * astraljava too

[23:02] <charlie-tca> beardygnome: apples win

[23:02] <knome> some people think that even apples can't be eaten with the skin

[23:03] <charlie-tca> true, when I lived in Korea, we peeled everything

[23:03] <charlie-tca> Can we close this meeting now?

[23:03] <astraljava> ..

[23:03] <charlie-tca> #endmeeting

[23:03] <charlie-tca> not to cut anyone off, but...

[23:03] <knome> i was referring to the global, not the we're-in-korea-and-we-might-die-eating-the-apple-peel effect

[23:04] <charlie-tca> oh, well, yeah, that too
