{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This page is for listing the plans for the <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org|Xubuntu website]]</nowiki>. 

=== Status ===

''24 October 2006''
The new website has been completed and is now live and widely available for viewing at www.xubuntu.org

''13 September 2006''
The previous maintainer of the Xubuntu website has been contacted, he will try to arrange login access, as for now we'll mail him if we want something changed.

=== Content ===

==== New Look ====

<nowiki>[[Xubuntu-Website-Plans-Theme]]</nowiki>

Jonathan has been contacted in order to obtain the most recent layout of the site that he had completed in order for current maintainers to implement, update content and publish live as soon as possible.

* Xubuntu theme implemented and there are some individuals working to fix a few css bugs -- CodySomerville

==== Press coverage ====
We'll try to incorporate the links Luzi put together at <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Press|Xubuntu/Press]]</nowiki>. Of course when we find other reviews we'll add them to the list.

* Incorporated at http://xubuntu.org/press -- CodySomerville

==== News ====

We'll keep the news up-to-date, I think we can mail Jonathan for the news when there is any, because there isn't so much news. We might want to make a list of news items up till now that should still be added to the archive.

* I've created a page that automatically lists all the nodes of the type story (aka ''news''). The last 10 news items can be viewed by visiting http://xubuntu.org/news -- CodySomerville

=== Current maintainers ===

Please see <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/people/xubuntu-website|Xubuntu Website Team]]</nowiki> for a list of current maintainers.

=== Comments ===
