{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by knome at 19:04:05 UTC. Meeting ended at 20:22:38 UTC. The full logs are available at http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2012/xubuntu-devel.2012-03-14-19.04.log.html.

=== Meeting summary ===
* Team Updates
** Package and Development  (knome, 19:04:34)
** nothing much apart from bugfixes: xfdesktop4, xfce4-cellmodem-plugin, shimmer-themes, xfce4-settings and xfce4-xkb-plugin  (mr_pouit, 19:06:14)
** micahg working on lightdm-gtk-greeter and blueman, should hopefully be ok for beta 2  (mr_pouit, 19:06:25)
** NON-PAE kernel is requested for xubuntu precise i386  (knome, 19:07:32)
** Bugs, Testing, Docs  (knome, 19:07:58)
** pleia2 is in the process of improving the testing docs, hopefully a blog post too so we can have more testers for beta2  (pleia2, 19:09:57)
** Marketing, Art, Web  (knome, 19:11:49)
** Submitted web form request to confirm we can make Xubuntu products, no response  (pleia2, 19:12:19)
** General updates  (knome, 19:14:02)
* Other Business
** Seeding GThumb  (knome, 19:15:45)
** New logo  (knome, 19:23:19)
** ''ACTION:'' knome, ochosi and mr_pouit to work on getting the new logo everywhere  (knome, 19:31:11)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to look the whisker-size  (knome, 20:01:34)
** knome promises to work on any suggestions to make the new logo better tomorrow  (knome, 20:09:09)
** PAE kernel  (knome, 20:09:19)
** cjwatson will look at using non-PAE kernel with xubuntu precise i386, knome to follow-up with him if problems arises  (knome, 20:20:50)
** Open action items from previous meeting  (knome, 20:11:08)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 and knome to work on t-shirt designs and come up with a proposal on the design and the webstore to plug in  (knome, 20:21:17)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to design flyers  (knome, 20:21:32)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to raise publicity on triaging, testing and docs  (knome, 20:22:18)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to gather content for flyers  (knome, 20:22:28)

=== Votes ===

* New Xubuntu logo (+1) or the old one, please! (-1)
   For: 2 Against: 1 Abstained: 1

=== Action items, by person ===

* knome
** knome, ochosi and mr_pouit to work on getting the new logo everywhere
** knome to look the whisker-size
** pleia2 and knome to work on t-shirt designs and come up with a proposal on the design and the webstore to plug in
** knome to design flyers
* mr_pouit
** knome, ochosi and mr_pouit to work on getting the new logo everywhere
* pleia2
** pleia2 and knome to work on t-shirt designs and come up with a proposal on the design and the webstore to plug in
** pleia2 to raise publicity on triaging, testing and docs
** pleia2 to gather content for flyers

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (165)
* micahg (34)
* pleia2 (22)
* meetingology (18)
* mr_pouit (17)
* Unit193 (6)
