{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 14 Jun at 22:00 &mdash; 23:47 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2019/xubuntu-devel.2019-06-14-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 22:06.

==== Updates and announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and announcements" started at 22:07.

** Xfce 4.14 to be released August 11, 2019 (in time for Eoan)
** flocculant (Kev) has left the position of QA lead / Xubuntu Council (thanks for all the years of help)
** ochosi (Simon) has filled the remaining Xubuntu Council position following a team vote
** jjfrv8 (Jack) has officially left the Xubuntu Team (thanks for all the help, take care!)

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:12.

* '''Replacing Light Locker with Xfce Screensaver''' (22:12)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to replace light-locker with xfce4-screensaver in eoan
* '''Including additional keyboard shortcuts common to other desktops / OSes''' (22:17)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to mail the mailing list to discuss additional keyboard shortcuts
* '''Configuring GIMP to use the GTK theme (instead of dark)''' (22:27)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to mail the team regarding the GTK styles in GIMP (noting GTK used to be default)
* '''Color emoji in Xubuntu''' (22:38)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to email a team vote for color emoji support in Xubuntu
* '''Expanding membership''' (22:46)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to work on improving "starting point" documentation for dev/QA
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to reach out to other flavors to improve shared documentation
* '''QA''' (23:19)
* '''Collaboration with Ubuntu Studio''' (23:29)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2019-May/011793.html 

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 23:45.

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 23:46.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to schedule next meeting, but skip him if he doesn't in a sensible amount of time

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to replace light-locker with xfce4-screensaver in eoan
** bluesabre to mail the mailing list to discuss additional keyboard shortcuts
** bluesabre to mail the team regarding the GTK styles in GIMP (noting GTK used to be default)
** bluesabre to email a team vote for color emoji support in Xubuntu
** bluesabre to work on improving "starting point" documentation for dev/QA
** bluesabre to reach out to other flavors to improve shared documentation
* knome
** knome to schedule next meeting, but skip him if he doesn't in a sensible amount of time

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (159)
* knome (99)
* Eickmeyer (65)
* pleia2 (23)
* Unit193 (22)
* Spass (11)
* meetingology (11)
