{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Instructions on how to get Gtk3 indicators in a Gtk2 Xfce-Panel ==

'''Note:''' These instructions are a work-in-progress and will (hopefully) change in the next feek weeks/months as things consolidate.

=== Installation ===

Download and install Trusty daily - you can install to a VM such as VirtualBox if you wish.

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/daily-live/current/

==== 1. Install PPA's ====

<code>sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xubuntu-dev/xfce-4.12</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo add-apt-repository ppa:noskcaj/indicator-gtk3</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo add-apt-repository ppa:shimmerproject/daily</code><<BR>>

==== 2. Update and upgrade ====

<code>sudo apt-get update</code><<BR>>
<code>sudo apt-get dist-upgrade</code><<BR>>

==== 3. Install Gtk3 indicators ====

<code>sudo apt-get install indicator-bluetooth indicator-datetime indicator-keyboard indicator-messages indicator-network indicator-power indicator-printers indicator-session indicator-sound indicator-sync</code><<BR>>

<code>sudo apt-get purge indicator-sound-gtk2 indicator-application-gtk2</code><<BR>>

=== Usage ===

Logout and then login.

=== Known Issues ===

'''NOTE: If you are affected by bugs that are NOT listed below, please report them as normal. Otherwise, we are aware and don't need them reporting again'''

==== indicator-datetime config panel ====
You can't access it unless you are running Unity. This affects gnome-classic too. Now that <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2013-December/004360.html|Ubuntu-Desktop will have it's own control center]]</nowiki> this bug can hopefully get fixed. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/1074314|#1074314]]</nowiki>

==== Indicators may fail to load ====
Indicators are currently in the middle of a change from DBus activation to Upstart, and may fail
to load until this change is completed. As a workaround, put "INDICATOR_ALLOW_NO_WATCHERS=yes" in /etc/environment and reboot. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/indicator-network/+bug/1185565|#1185565]]</nowiki>

==== Play button animation incomplete when launching a media player from the sound menu ====
Minor visual glitch. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/indicator-sound/+bug/1231796|#1231796]]</nowiki>

==== Gtk3 indicator background turns transparent/black occasionally ====
This bug can occur if the panel style is set to 'none (use system style)' and alpha to 100. <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=10658|Xfce Bug #10658]]</nowiki> (Fix available)

=== Fixed Issues ===

==== Various indicators have no menu ====
This isn't specific to any DE. Test case affects Unity too. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libdbusmenu/+bug/1203888/|#1203888]]</nowiki> (fixed in saucy and trusty)

==== Datetime/Session indicators sometimes don't load at startup ====
Affects other sessions. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/1239710|#1239710]]</nowiki> (fixed is saucy and trusty)
