{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started by charlie-tca at 22:02:59 UTC.  The full logs are available at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2011/xubuntu-devel.2011-10-23-22.02.log.html]]</nowiki>.

=== Meeting summary ===

==== OLD BUSINESS ====
==== Team updates ====
==== Announcements ====
==== Xubuntu Governance ====
* Nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead  (charlie-tca, 22:21:23)
* Pasi Lallinaho (knome) was chosen as the next Xubuntu Project Lead
==== Announcements (again) ====
* ''ACTION:'' charlie-tca to hear about the 5-year release schedule in UDS and report about it  (knome, 23:09:44)
==== Other announcements ====

Meeting ended at 23:37:03 UTC.

=== Votes ===
==== Vote for next Xubuntu Project Lead ====
* We are voting for knome first
   For: 9 Against: 0 Abstained: 4
* we now vote for charlie-tca
   For: 2 Against: 0 Abstained: 10

=== Action items ===
* charlie-tca to hear about the 5-year release schedule in UDS and report about it

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (186)
* charlie-tca (119)
* micahg (94)
* GridCube (76)
* meetingology (41)
* mr_pouit (35)
* beardygnome (35)
* ochosi (19)
* JPohlmann (12)
* pleia2 (9)
* dejot (5)
* ubottu (4)
* madnick (3)
* nimbus (2)
* holstein (2)
* edii (1)

=== Full Log ===
 22:02:59 <charlie-tca> #startmeeting Xubuntu

 22:02:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Sun Oct 23 22:02:59 2011 UTC.  The chair is charlie-tca. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 22:02:59 <meetingology> 

 22:02:59 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 22:03:28 <charlie-tca> The agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings

 22:03:45 <charlie-tca> Reminder:   please use ".." on separate line when you've finished typing.   If someone wants to comment during the updates, please "o/", so we know to wait.

 22:04:06 <GridCube> do we o/ for the bot to count us?

 22:04:10 <charlie-tca> #topic OLD BUSINESS

 22:04:23 <pleia2> I can't stay long (have some furniture to pick up) :\

 22:04:23 <charlie-tca> no, we will all be counted when voting

 22:04:28 <GridCube> ok

 22:04:41 <knome> pleia2, meh you

 22:04:53 <charlie-tca> All old business is carried forward for the next Project Lead to bring forward.

 22:05:08 <charlie-tca> #topic === Team updates ===

 22:05:25 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Packaging & Development ====

 22:05:50 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: I have seen a bug report on 12.04 already, but prefer to ignore it until we at least all the merges and syncs done

 22:06:06 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: your floor, do you have any updates this early?

 22:06:08 <knome> (and toolkit uploaded?)

 22:06:33 <mr_pouit> micahg started to do some syncs (I haven't even looked at precise yet ;-)

 22:06:36 <charlie-tca> toolchain uploaded already

 22:06:40 <knome> oh!

 22:06:44 <charlie-tca> Okay, mr_pouit

 22:06:52 <micahg> o/

 22:07:00 <knome> (i thought it was after uds. sorry for distrupting)

 22:07:02 <mr_pouit> there have been many bugs filed against oneiric recently too

 22:07:16 <charlie-tca> yes, the increase in users is showing up rapidly

 22:07:28 <charlie-tca> micahg: ?

 22:07:49 <micahg> I just wanted to say that an SRU for blueman is planned by me, just not sure if it'll happen before UDS

 22:07:58 <charlie-tca> Great!

 22:08:02 <knome> o/

 22:08:06 <charlie-tca> That will take out a couple of bugs

 22:08:08 <mr_pouit> Bug #878682, Bug #877811 and Bug #878069 might also be SRU'able

 22:08:09 <charlie-tca> knome: ?

 22:08:11 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 878682 in xubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "Fresh install of Xubuntu 11.10 misses gvfs-backends package" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/878682

 22:08:12 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 877811 in xfce4-panel (Ubuntu) "DirectoryMenu plugin "Open in Terminal" doesn't work" [Low,Fix committed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/877811

 22:08:13 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 878069 in exo (Ubuntu Oneiric) "Mailto helpers broken on !i386 in 0.6.2-2" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/878069

 22:08:40 <knome> can we get a newer version of ristretto in oneiric too? it crashes if you are using thumbnailbar, but i heard that's fixed in 0.1.0

 22:08:53 <micahg> mr_pouit: yeah, I can look at those (I know the last one will have to wait until exo makes it into testing/unstable)

 22:08:53 <knome> (as SRU) + ..

 22:09:14 <mr_pouit> micahg: it's in unstable now ;-)

 22:09:23 * GridCube was going to propose we ditch ristretto for gpicviewer

 22:09:24 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: ristretto should be SRU able, isn't it?

 22:09:28 <micahg> mr_pouit: oops, meant testing/precise :)

 22:09:48 * beardygnome supports GridCube

 22:09:52 <micahg> charlie-tca: we don't usually SRU major version updates (I think blueman might be an exception since it's all bug fix)

 22:09:55 <ochosi> GridCube: you should try what's in git now, it really has evolved a lot

 22:10:05 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: knome: I haven't looked at the diff between 0.0.93 and 0.1.x, but I guess it's too big

 22:10:09 <GridCube> ochosi, :) will try

 22:10:12 <knome> GridCube, ristretto's got a lot of enhancements lately, so i'd say let's check that first too, and compare that to gpicviewer

 22:10:15 <charlie-tca> blueman we got permission for before release

 22:10:15 <knome> mr_pouit, :(

 22:10:18 <micahg> ristretto 0.1.0 was a total rewrite IIRC

 22:10:23 <knome> mostly, yes

 22:10:34 <knome> can we at least investigate that?

 22:10:45 <micahg> knome: we can backport it

 22:10:45 <charlie-tca> Well, if ristretto can not be done, we will at least get the new version in Precise

 22:10:54 <micahg> charlie-tca: already there ;)

 22:11:06 <charlie-tca> Okay

 22:11:11 <micahg> 0.2.0 will be coming after UDS

 22:11:16 <charlie-tca> Anything else for development?

 22:11:17 <mr_pouit> if psybsd didn't rewrite ristretto between 0.0.93 and 0.1.0, I can try to make a patch to fix issues

 22:11:33 <knome> so if possible, let's try to get ristretto 0.1.0 in for oneiric as SRU or backport.

 22:11:41 <mr_pouit> (but I think he rewrote many things ;-)

 22:11:56 <micahg> if there's a crash and there's a sensible patch, we can SRU that

 22:12:00 <charlie-tca> We will at least look at it

 22:12:11 <knome> thanks. or micahg or mr_pouit can PPA it

 22:12:12 <knome> .

 22:12:39 <charlie-tca> anything else?

 22:12:44 <micahg> knome: let's use backports, if you want to file the bug, I can get a test build up

 22:12:55 <knome> micahg, i can do that. :)

 22:12:56 <micahg> knome: against oneiric-backports

 22:13:03 <knome> thanks

 22:13:11 <GridCube> o/

 22:13:14 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Bug Triage & Testing ====

 22:13:18 <charlie-tca> GridCube: ?

 22:13:36 <GridCube> can i ask something, that bothering me, why do you changed exaile for gmusicbrowser?

 22:13:43 <GridCube> can't we go back to it?

 22:14:00 <micahg> exaile uses hal so no :P

 22:14:02 <knome> can we cover that on "other business" ?

 22:14:02 <charlie-tca> I have wondered the same thing. It seems like we lost the ability to play cd's in that switch

 22:14:10 <GridCube> ok

 22:14:16 <knome> it isn't really team update

 22:14:16 <GridCube> ..

 22:14:19 <knome> ..

 22:14:22 <charlie-tca> correct

 22:14:50 <micahg> well, there's a branch for de-hal-ing it

 22:15:01 <micahg> oh, wait, we have parole, don't we?

 22:15:03 <knome> micahg! behave! :P ..

 22:15:05 <charlie-tca> as to bugs and testing, we will begin testing Precise the first week of December. Alph1 is due the 1st, and daily testing up to then is spotty

 22:15:21 <GridCube> :D my new testing interface is ready :D

 22:15:29 <charlie-tca> #subtopic ==== Website & Marketing ====

 22:15:38 <charlie-tca> Where are we on the website transition?

 22:15:44 <knome> we're still pending on IS to get the latest plugin version in

 22:15:46 * beardygnome thinks it looks good

 22:16:13 <knome> after that, we need one more plugin/theme update, after that it is all about content (which is already copied over by pleia2)

 22:16:32 <knome> so we're maybe about 1-3 weeks from going live (realistic estimation)

 22:16:37 <knome> ..

 22:16:38 <pleia2> I did a full audit of the old site yesterday and shared notes for what we need to review

 22:16:39 <charlie-tca> Great! That would be fantastic

 22:16:46 <pleia2> all the news is pulled over, 26 articles!

 22:16:53 <pleia2> ..

 22:17:00 <knome> i look forward to writing as much articles per release!

 22:17:00 <knome> ..

 22:17:07 <pleia2> knome: +1

 22:17:13 <charlie-tca> I haven't seen any reviews yet from our bloggers

 22:17:52 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: guess you missed http://beardygnome.co.uk/2011/10/22/oneiric-ocelot-arrives/ then

 22:17:56 <charlie-tca> Artwork and Documentation should be discussed later, I think, as in next meeting

 22:17:58 <knome> i can write one, but that wouldn't be so positive, since my upgrade miserably failed :(

 22:17:59 <beardygnome> :-)

 22:18:08 <charlie-tca> beardygnome: I did

 22:18:15 <knome> charlie-tca, agreed. nothing happening in those areas now

 22:18:29 <charlie-tca> I was hoping to get that into the website news, too, which puts it in planet

 22:18:31 <ochosi> knome: hey! i'm still fixing greybird-gtk3 bugs ;)

 22:18:33 <beardygnome> i can't say i've publicised it...

 22:18:38 <knome> ochosi, hehe.. :)

 22:19:05 <charlie-tca> #topic === Announcements ===

 22:19:35 <charlie-tca> Ubuntu is going to move to a 5 year release schedule for LTS releases.

 22:19:38 <charlie-tca> We will need to seriously consider Xubuntu's ability to support this plan.

 22:19:40 <charlie-tca> Staying with Ubuntu release cycles will mean supporting 12.04 for 5 years.

 22:19:50 <charlie-tca> I am not willing to take this up before the election.

 22:20:17 <charlie-tca> #topic === Xubuntu Governance ===

 22:20:32 <charlie-tca> * The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/StrategyDocument#Xubuntu_Governance_.26_Team_Structure

 22:20:39 <charlie-tca> drumroll please...

 22:20:39 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: they already do 5 year support, don't they?

 22:20:47 <charlie-tca> Only for servers

 22:20:55 <knome> (beardygnome, 3 for desktop)

 22:21:00 <charlie-tca> They are going to 5 year support for desktops

 22:21:14 <beardygnome> oh, sorry, hadn't heard that

 22:21:23 <charlie-tca> #subtopic Nominations for Xubuntu Project Lead

 22:21:26 <beardygnome> ..

 22:21:39 <charlie-tca> We have two nominees for this election today

 22:21:49 <charlie-tca> Myself, and the esteemed knome

 22:22:08 * knome bows

 22:22:11 <charlie-tca> I would like knome to introduce himself and will give a few minutes to him.

 22:22:19 <charlie-tca> knome: go ahead, sikr

 22:22:23 <charlie-tca> knome: go ahead, sir

 22:22:27 <knome> hello everybody!

 22:22:40 <knome> i'm pasi lallinaho, a geek and a foss enthusiast from finland

 22:23:04 <knome> i've been working with ubuntu since 2008, also as the xubuntu marketing lead for over a year

 22:23:28 <knome> in 2009, i founded the shimmer project, via which i've continuously have contributed to xubuntu

 22:23:57 <knome> you can read more at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PasiLallinaho/XPL - a shortlist of my bigger contributions to ubuntu is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PasiLallinaho/

 22:24:01 <knome> thanks ..

 22:24:40 <charlie-tca> Lest any one decide to vote based on my and knome's interactions. Be aware, we do not see eye to eye often, but I have the greatest respect for knome.

 22:25:20 <charlie-tca> I think enough of him to make him an IRC op in all of our channels, which gives him the right to throw even myself out.

 22:25:34 <knome> to be exact, i've never seen charlie-tca in real life, but i do respect him very much too - he is doing an absolute fantastic job on QA and bugs!

 22:25:47 <pleia2> thanks guys :)

 22:25:51 * micahg can vouch for charlie-tca being a real person :)

 22:26:00 <charlie-tca> lol

 22:26:15 <knome> me too, i've heard he is real from what i've heard from people i've seen rl too

 22:26:23 <charlie-tca> If anyone neeeds more time to read knome's wiki pages, please say so

 22:26:25 <knome> or maybe this is the next truman story??

 22:26:42 <charlie-tca> I was real last time I looked in the mirror

 22:27:07 <knome> (one can make even a bot say that!!)

 22:27:41 <micahg> ubottu: are you real?

 22:27:41 <ubottu> micahg: I am only a bot, please don't think I'm intelligent :)

 22:27:59 <knome> just as a sidenote, i've never had problems with charlie-tca in the irc channels so i haven't had to think if i should throw him out :)

 22:28:32 <charlie-tca> I am Charlie Kravetz. My wiki page is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CharlieKravetz/XubuntuProjectLeadNomination

 22:29:02 <charlie-tca> I want to thank knome for making this a true election this time. It is always good to have a choice.

 22:29:16 <GridCube> :)

 22:29:33 <knome> to be truthful, the ubuntu studio leader ScottL told he wanted to add a testimony for charlie too, but i think he forgot.

 22:30:05 <charlie-tca> We will hold two votes, you can vote +1 to vote for the person. Only those members of https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-users/ are allowed to vote.

 22:30:15 <charlie-tca> If you don't know if you are a member of the team, please ask.

 22:30:27 <GridCube> I think i am

 22:30:31 <GridCube> how to know?

 22:30:34 <knome> GridCube, lp id?

 22:30:53 <GridCube> gridcube

 22:30:56 <madnick> GridCube: you are

 22:30:58 <knome> GridCube, you are a member.

 22:31:00 <GridCube> :D

 22:31:16 <dejot> are new group members OK to vote as well?

 22:31:19 <knome> GridCube, of xubuntu-users, and only xubuntu-users

 22:31:27 <charlie-tca> GridCube: you are

 22:31:38 <GridCube> :)

 22:31:39 <GridCube> ok

 22:31:40 <charlie-tca> dejot: yes, as long as you are a member

 22:31:44 <dejot> k, thx

 22:32:02 <knome> yes, should be no difference. you might have wanted to join the team for voting too :)

 22:32:17 <ochosi> yeah, to be honest i did that..

 22:32:19 <charlie-tca> #vote We are voting for knome first

 22:32:19 <meetingology> Please vote on: We are voting for knome first

 22:32:19 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 22:32:36 <charlie-tca> Please vote now

 22:32:40 <ochosi> +1

 22:32:40 <meetingology> +1 received from ochosi

 22:32:41 <charlie-tca> +0

 22:32:41 <meetingology> +0 received from charlie-tca

 22:32:42 <knome> can i vote for myself? :)

 22:32:45 <dejot> +1

 22:32:45 <meetingology> +1 received from dejot

 22:32:47 <pleia2> +1

 22:32:47 <meetingology> +1 received from pleia2

 22:32:47 <knome> +0

 22:32:47 <meetingology> +0 received from knome

 22:32:47 <charlie-tca> yes

 22:32:48 <nimbus> +1

 22:32:48 <meetingology> +1 received from nimbus

 22:32:49 <edii> +1

 22:32:49 <meetingology> +1 received from edii

 22:32:50 <GridCube> +0

 22:32:50 <meetingology> +0 received from GridCube

 22:32:51 <madnick> +1

 22:32:51 <meetingology> +1 received from madnick

 22:32:51 <beardygnome> =1

 22:32:55 <beardygnome> +1

 22:32:55 <meetingology> +1 received from beardygnome

 22:33:04 <JPohlmann> +1

 22:33:04 <meetingology> +1 received from JPohlmann

 22:33:18 <knome> oooh :o

 22:33:21 <mr_pouit> +1

 22:33:21 <meetingology> +1 received from mr_pouit

 22:33:24 <charlie-tca> knome: yes, you may vote for yourself. You can also change your vote by voting again

 22:33:41 <micahg> do we vote only once?

 22:33:43 <beardygnome> looks like i'm not a member of xubuntu-users though...

 22:33:49 <knome> charlie-tca, i'll disqualify myself. :)

 22:33:56 <charlie-tca> You can vote twice, once for each of us

 22:34:14 <beardygnome> even though i'm in xubuntu-team...

 22:34:19 <micahg> +0

 22:34:19 <meetingology> +0 received from micahg

 22:34:26 <knome> since xubuntu-users is an open group, i'd say anyone active enough in the community that both contestants know him, can vote. charlie-tca, agreed?

 22:34:50 <GridCube> beardygnome, it autoaccepts you

 22:34:51 <charlie-tca> yeah, If you are on Xubuntu-team, you are qualified to vote

 22:34:58 <knome> :)

 22:35:27 <mr_pouit> beardygnome: if you're in ~xubuntu-team, you're indirectly in ~xubuntu-users

 22:35:42 <mr_pouit> (unless launchpad is lying to me, or I can't read straight anymore)

 22:35:42 <charlie-tca> beardygnome: xubuntu-team is always included in xubuntu-users. So is xubuntu-devel

 22:35:57 <beardygnome> i might be registered under my real name, not my nick

 22:35:59 <beardygnome> just checking

 22:36:01 <knome> heh

 22:36:08 <knome> everybody going to vote has voted?

 22:36:16 <charlie-tca> Does anyone else wish to vote?

 22:36:30 <charlie-tca> we give it one minute

 22:36:44 <knome> dum-di-dum...

 22:37:08 * knome renders half-time music

 22:37:09 <GridCube> tom bombadil songs?

 22:37:16 <ochosi> :)

 22:37:19 <charlie-tca> #endvote

 22:37:19 <meetingology> Voting ended on: We are voting for knome first

 22:37:19 <meetingology> Votes for:9 Votes against:0 Abstentions:4

 22:37:19 <meetingology> Motion carried

 22:37:20 <knome> you name it, i hum it

 22:37:57 <charlie-tca> Okay, Now we will vote on charlie-tca. Please vote if you are a member of the xubuntu-users team.

 22:38:09 <charlie-tca> #vote we now vote for charlie-tca

 22:38:09 <meetingology> Please vote on: we now vote for charlie-tca

 22:38:09 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 22:38:13 <GridCube> :D

 22:38:14 <GridCube> +1

 22:38:14 <meetingology> +1 received from GridCube

 22:38:19 <charlie-tca> +0

 22:38:19 <meetingology> +0 received from charlie-tca

 22:38:20 <micahg> +1

 22:38:20 <meetingology> +1 received from micahg

 22:38:24 <GridCube> i nominated you so :P

 22:38:31 <dejot> +0

 22:38:31 <meetingology> +0 received from dejot

 22:38:36 <beardygnome> +0

 22:38:36 <meetingology> +0 received from beardygnome

 22:38:39 <ochosi> +0

 22:38:39 <meetingology> +0 received from ochosi

 22:38:47 <pleia2> +0

 22:38:47 <meetingology> +0 received from pleia2

 22:38:50 <knome> +0.5

 22:38:50 <meetingology> +0.5 received from knome

 22:38:51 <madnick> 0

 22:38:51 <meetingology> 0 received from madnick

 22:39:00 <JPohlmann> +0

 22:39:00 <meetingology> +0 received from JPohlmann

 22:39:03 <mr_pouit> uh, does +0.5 work?

 22:39:06 <GridCube> it will count it XD

 22:39:13 <knome> mr_pouit, if it does, i'll file a bug.

 22:39:25 <dejot> and render the election invalid!

 22:39:30 <knome> haha

 22:39:34 <GridCube> jaja

 22:39:38 <mr_pouit> +0 (actually +0.5, but then knome would file 2 bugs)

 22:39:38 <meetingology> +0 (actually +0.5, but then knome would file 2 bugs) received from mr_pouit

 22:39:44 <mr_pouit> >.<

 22:39:46 <mr_pouit> +0

 22:39:46 <meetingology> +0 received from mr_pouit

 22:39:47 <charlie-tca> no it won't, since it may be for the boards to show a positive vote

 22:39:51 <knome> heh, nicely done...

 22:40:11 <knome> let's see what the bot says in a sec

 22:40:20 <charlie-tca> Okay, let's give it one more minute

 22:40:22 <nimbus> +0

 22:40:22 <meetingology> +0 received from nimbus

 22:40:38 * knome hums some half-time music again

 22:41:22 <charlie-tca> Since this is the same bot used in #ubuntu-meeting, it may well allow half votes as a vote of confidence

 22:41:29 <charlie-tca> #endvote

 22:41:29 <meetingology> Voting ended on: we now vote for charlie-tca

 22:41:29 <meetingology> Votes for:2 Votes against:0 Abstentions:10

 22:41:29 <meetingology> Motion carried

 22:41:37 <charlie-tca> Super.

 22:41:44 <knome> yeah, it should count +0* as +0 :)

 22:41:44 <charlie-tca> Congratulations, knome

 22:41:48 <knome> thanks everybody!

 22:41:56 <pleia2> charlie-tca: thank you for your work, you are great :)

 22:42:04 <GridCube> :D

 22:42:15 <charlie-tca> I will thank everyone here for participating in this meeting and very important election.

 22:42:18 <knome> yes, thanks

 22:42:24 <GridCube> ALL SALUTE THE NEW PROJECT LEADER!

 22:42:26 <GridCube> :D

 22:42:32 <knome> charlie-tca, if you will, i'll be glad to see you as the QA+bugs leader in the future too :)

 22:42:39 <GridCube> congratulations mister knome :D

 22:42:45 <knome> thank you sir

 22:42:47 <charlie-tca> I know you will support the new Project Leader, and insure this great distribution continues to grow

 22:43:14 <GridCube> :D charlie-tca for all i can tell you did a great job

 22:43:16 <beardygnome> charlie-tca: thank you for all your hard work, my vote for  knome was not a vote against you, if that makes sense?

 22:43:29 <micahg> beardygnome: you could've voted for both :)

 22:43:30 <ochosi> GridCube: now you have to call him "the esteemed knome" ;)

 22:43:34 <charlie-tca> #chair knome

 22:43:34 <meetingology> Current chairs: charlie-tca knome

 22:43:57 <charlie-tca> I know. I fully appreciate the value of change in leadership

 22:44:01 <GridCube> the greatly steemed mister knome the great

 22:44:01 <knome> charlie-tca, if you want, i can chair the rest of the meeting, or you can do it as well

 22:44:02 <GridCube> :P

 22:44:04 <mr_pouit> two chairs, soon we'll have a bench \o/

 22:44:08 * mr_pouit hides

 22:44:10 <ochosi> haha

 22:44:10 <knome> the steamed knome

 22:44:14 <beardygnome> micahg: i know, but i didn't want to risk tying the votes

 22:44:24 <charlie-tca> That's why I gave you the chair

 22:44:26 <micahg> beardygnome: as you can see, that wasn't a problem :)

 22:44:27 * knome is big enough to be a couch

 22:44:29 <charlie-tca> knome: go ahead

 22:44:43 <knome> let me find the right tab in FF :)

 22:44:53 <knome> so, let's move on to the next subject

 22:45:12 <charlie-tca> besides, I am tired of saying I will wait for the new project leader

 22:45:16 <knome> #topic === Announcements (again) ===

 22:45:19 <GridCube> XD

 22:45:32 <knome> Ubuntu goes 5-year schedule for LTS

 22:45:39 <ochosi> charlie-tca: thanks for all your work charlie! i really hope you'll continue with QA and accessibility!

 22:45:40 <knome> JPohlmann, ping

 22:45:56 <charlie-tca> Yes, I plan to be around, but not until after UDS

 22:46:31 <charlie-tca> knome: according to the message on the 5 year plan, it will be discussed at UDS, also

 22:46:38 <micahg> knome: shouldn't that be a discussion or was that summary judgment?

 22:46:40 <JPohlmann> The LTS schedule is something I thought it might be worth throwing in my opinion

 22:46:51 <knome> JPohlmann had something to say so i'll let him :)

 22:46:59 <micahg> knome: nevermind...

 22:47:15 <JPohlmann> Maintaining an Xfce release as old as five years would be painful

 22:47:47 <JPohlmann> As upstream developers we only really maintain the latest stable release in parallel to developing the next one

 22:47:54 <JPohlmann> The cycle is about two years

 22:48:32 <JPohlmann> So five years means you'd have to come up with fixes on your own, upstream doesn't have the manpower to maintain 3 versions in parallel

 22:48:49 <JPohlmann> ..

 22:48:58 <knome> yes, 5 years is a long time

 22:49:02 <beardygnome> o/

 22:49:06 <knome> beardygnome, go ahead

 22:49:27 <beardygnome> we can chose not to do 5 year support, right?

 22:49:43 <knome> i don't know. does somebody know that yet?

 22:50:07 <knome> in my opinion, xubuntu doesn't necessarily need LTS's

 22:50:10 <micahg> main will be supported for 5 yrs regardless, this is specific to whether or not we, as Xubuntu, want to extend that to our packages as well

 22:50:22 <ochosi> o/

 22:50:22 <knome> we have been able to produce a stable system every release

 22:50:32 <knome> ochosi, go ahead

 22:50:38 <charlie-tca> o/

 22:50:50 <knome> charlie-tca, feel free to go after ochosi's finished :)

 22:50:51 <JPohlmann> knome: Well, it is being used in large PC pools at universities, so having an LTS might be useful

 22:50:55 * micahg needs to learn to raise his hand...

 22:51:12 <ochosi> as jannis said, xfce has a different length of cycles. furthermore: afaik ubuntu wants to transition to gtk3 with 12.04 which is rather bad for us

 22:51:26 <micahg> o/

 22:51:28 <ochosi> so all in all i think the next lts is not really ideal for xubuntu

 22:51:34 <knome> JPohlmann, i understand, but since you can't upgrade from LTS to anything else than next normal release or the LTS 5 years ago, that kind of fails

 22:51:39 <mr_pouit> well, I think we haven't even supported normal 3y LTS until now (I don't think I've even patched something in 10.04 -- Xfce 4.6 -- since its release)

 22:51:59 <ochosi> ..

 22:52:05 <micahg> knome: no, upgrades will still be every 2 years AFAICT for LTS -> LTS

 22:52:08 <knome> (everybody just go free - otherwise this takes too long)

 22:52:19 <charlie-tca> As a derivative of Ubuntu, we are not required to follow the Ubuntu release schedule.

 22:52:22 <knome> micahg, if LTS is every 5 years, isn't LTS->LTS five years waiting?

 22:52:38 <charlie-tca> A point to keep in mind is that Xubuntu is not officially designated "LTS"

 22:52:42 <micahg> knome: no, just that there's 6yrs of support per release

 22:52:46 <micahg> oops

 22:52:48 <GridCube> o/

 22:52:49 <micahg> 5 yrs, not 6

 22:52:59 <knome> if we could work with xfce more closely, the ideal situation would be to release an LTS everytime a new xfce version is out+polished

 22:53:05 <ochosi> GridCube: think you don't have to raise your "hand" anymore ;)

 22:53:10 <GridCube> ok

 22:53:11 <charlie-tca> We have supported LTS releases as a group, not as a requirement

 22:53:27 <GridCube> for as far as i know there will be two concurrent lts

 22:53:28 <knome> GridCube, yep, let's go free on this subject

 22:53:42 <charlie-tca> However, moving outside the Ubuntu 18 month cycles does create other issues

 22:53:45 <beardygnome> +1 for knome's idea

 22:53:52 <micahg> knome: there's no upstream help for GNOME/KDE to maintain an LTS release, so I don't see why we'd need help from Xfce either

 22:54:02 <knome> micahg, yes, but you can only upgrade to next normal version or LTS from LTS

 22:54:09 <micahg> GridCube: there will be 3 now :)

 22:54:22 <charlie-tca> Gnome and KDE officially support LTS releases, which is why they are always included in the .? releases

 22:54:23 <GridCube> yes, but what i mean is

 22:54:30 <charlie-tca> We are not included in them

 22:54:31 <GridCube> there will be two updates to lts

 22:54:32 <knome> micahg, we don't necessarily need "xfce help", but help isn't bad

 22:54:32 <micahg> knome: right, so from 12.04 you can upgrade to 12.10 or 14.04

 22:54:38 <knome> micahg, yes

 22:54:41 <GridCube> lts>lts1>lts2

 22:54:52 <GridCube> lts>(lts1,lts2)

 22:54:56 <knome> micahg, that's why it's either you upgrade to normal release, or are stuck waiting 5 for the next lts

 22:55:04 <knome> micahg, which is bad

 22:55:10 <knome> my vision is:

 22:55:15 <micahg> knome: no, it's still 2 yrs for the next LTS upgrade

 22:55:26 <knome> oh, right

 22:55:27 <knome> sorry

 22:55:31 <knome> i mixed things up

 22:55:37 <GridCube> yes that, so not 5 years from lts > lts

 22:55:39 <micahg> so I think we're good WRT upstream Xfce

 22:55:39 <charlie-tca> A point to keep in mind, Dapper (Xubuntu 6.06) would have been supported until this year on a 5 year LTS

 22:55:54 <knome> i think we are good anyway

 22:56:10 <GridCube> 5 yeas if you do lts > lts2 but 2 for lts > lts1

 22:56:10 <ochosi> charlie-tca: yeah, imagining that makes the taste of a 5year lts a bit bitter

 22:56:15 <micahg> I think we have the option to stay with 3yrs instead of 5 as well

 22:56:15 <GridCube> thats how i undestand it

 22:56:17 <beardygnome> we don't have a server release, do we?

 22:56:20 <JPohlmann> Basically, if Xfce has released 4.6, 4.8 and is working towards 4.10, Xubuntu is entirely on its own with regards to 4.6. Upstream doesn't even check or work on fixes; no bugfix releases for the previous last stable release are made either. Maintaining that as an LTS would be tough, I guess.

 22:56:54 <knome> can we just say we support the "LTS" as long as the xfce version in it supported?

 22:56:58 <knome> people agree on that?

 22:57:14 <charlie-tca> Yes, and we will have 4.6 for another 18 months after 12.04 releases

 22:57:24 <GridCube> i do, but i don0t know if thats a fair thing to say to users

 22:57:27 <knome> well, as long as the xfce version in it is the next-to-newest

 22:57:30 <micahg> knome: well, no, that would be 2 yrs, and the LTS -> LTS upgrade isn't prompted until LTS+1.1

 22:57:36 <charlie-tca> I would suggest not using "LTS" for any Xubuntu release

 22:57:47 <mr_pouit> +1 with charlie-tca

 22:57:50 <GridCube> +1

 22:57:52 <JPohlmann> Yep, +1

 22:57:57 <ochosi> +1

 22:57:57 <beardygnome> _1

 22:57:59 <knome> charlie-tca, i kind of agree. as i said, we've been able to deliver stable releases from release to release

 22:57:59 <beardygnome> +1

 22:58:00 <micahg> so, the choices are 18m (no LTS), 3yrs, 5yr

 22:58:06 <knome> in that case

 22:58:11 <GridCube> knome, :p do a vote

 22:58:11 <charlie-tca> #agreed do not use "LTS" for any Xubuntu release

 22:58:20 <micahg> wait

 22:58:25 <knome> yeah, wait :)

 22:58:29 <micahg> do we not intend to support LTS -> LTS upgrades?

 22:58:39 <knome> that was my question too

 22:58:44 <knome> and the other question

 22:59:03 <charlie-tca> so, you plan to support an upgrade from 4.6 to 4.??? at 5 years?

 22:59:04 <knome> can we set update-manager to inform about new "normal" releases instead of just LTS by default?

 22:59:20 <beardygnome> how difficult is it to support lts -> lts upgrades?

 22:59:23 <micahg> charlie-tca: no, 2 yr upgrades, 4.6 -> 4.10, 4.10 -> 5.2 (?)

 22:59:37 <charlie-tca> supporting an upgrade every two years is NOT supporting LTS to LTS upgrades

 22:59:42 <ochosi> micahg: i think 4.12 comes after 4.10

 22:59:42 <GridCube> if you are no using lts it will inform you anyway doenst it? knome

 22:59:45 <micahg> charlie-tca: yes, it is :)

 22:59:51 <charlie-tca> It has to be upgraded the entire life time

 23:00:03 <knome> GridCube, yes, but if you are

 23:00:13 <GridCube> but we will be not

 23:00:18 <micahg> charlie-tca: no, we can say the supported upgrade path for xubuntu is through the intermediate LTSs

 23:00:31 <charlie-tca> knome: yes, that normal switch is simple to set

 23:00:49 <knome> charlie-tca, great. then i'd say let's go for that. do you know if we also can hide the LTS thing completely?

 23:01:08 <mr_pouit> again, to handle upgrade paths from 4.x to 4.x+4 (e.g. 4.6 to 4.10), we'll (probably) be alone

 23:01:08 <knome> charlie-tca, eg. not support any upgrades over more than one release

 23:01:15 <beardygnome> knome: i don't think that's a good idea

 23:01:21 <charlie-tca> I don't know for sure, but if the user decides to change the config file, they become "on their own"

 23:01:30 <micahg> knome: I think that will hurt us, not everyone is comfortable upgrading every 6 months

 23:01:36 <ochosi> sorry people, it's getting a bit late for me and i have to work tomorrow morning. i'll join the discussion/s again in the next meeting

 23:01:39 <knome> mmh.

 23:01:47 <knome> ochosi, thanks for joining us anyway though

 23:02:00 <knome> ochosi, i'm sure this discussion continues through to the next meeting as well

 23:02:03 <beardygnome> knome: i think we need to take this to the ml

 23:02:04 <ochosi> np, see you around (and i'll read the backlog)

 23:02:08 <charlie-tca> mr_pouit: and that is what we are looking at for 10.04, already

 23:02:14 <micahg> I think 3 yrs support isn't unreasonable and makes for a viable alternative to other OSs

 23:02:19 <beardygnome> we are going around in circles here

 23:02:24 <knome> mr_pouit, can you give some insight which is the easiest for you?

 23:02:25 <beardygnome> +1

 23:02:27 <charlie-tca> Normal upgrades are 18 month cycles

 23:02:28 <beardygnome> to micahg

 23:02:35 <mr_pouit> charlie-tca: if 12.04 only ships 4.8, that'll be fine ;-)

 23:02:51 <charlie-tca> but the upgrade must always be by step to each release.

 23:03:00 <micahg> charlie-tca: no, normal support is 18mo, upgrades are every 6 and if you upgrade every 18, you can to run 3 upgrades to be up to date

 23:03:10 <micahg> s/can/have to/

 23:03:30 <knome> can we give the floor to mr_pouit for a sec?

 23:03:37 <micahg> mr_pouit: right, we still have that wildcard :)

 23:03:45 <knome> i'd like to hear his thoughts on this, because he is the one doing the work, it seems

 23:03:48 <knome> (and micahg)

 23:05:07 <knome> mr_pouit, fell asleep?

 23:05:08 <mr_pouit> I'm not that happy to support 3 (not to say 5) years old releases, but if people think we can do it, we could try

 23:05:21 <knome> mr_pouit, what is your #1 suggestion

 23:05:28 <micahg> mr_pouit: 3 is the end, most users would be on it only about 2.5 yrs

 23:05:29 <mr_pouit> but right now, debian + xubuntu dev team = 3 people, just to remin that

 23:05:37 <mr_pouit> *remind

 23:06:01 <micahg> mr_pouit: what does Debian do about stable?

 23:06:16 <micahg> keep in mind Debian's support cycle is ~3 yrs for their releases

 23:06:23 <knome> (i'll be right back, need to run to the gentlemen's)

 23:06:27 <mr_pouit> only high impact fixes/more or less nothing most of the time

 23:06:37 <micahg> mr_pouit: I see no problem with us doing the same

 23:06:51 <mr_pouit> for Xfce 4.4, users got 4.6 in -backports

 23:07:07 <beardygnome> this might be a step too far, but could we switch our base?

 23:07:10 <micahg> ooh, that's nice :), I'm not sure I'd want to do that in Ubuntu though

 23:07:30 <mr_pouit> micahg: if we have longer support cycles than debian, we'll have fun delta with maintainer scripts & co, I'd like to avoid that ;-)

 23:07:50 <mr_pouit> the current scheme is nice for that

 23:08:07 <knome> is anybody going to UDS to discuss this?

 23:08:07 <micahg> mr_pouit: right, so I'd like to keep us basically in sync with Debian which is basically 2 years between releases (like our LTS->LTS)

 23:08:07 <JPohlmann> Time for me to hit the sack; bye people

 23:08:15 <micahg> thanks JPohlmann

 23:08:17 <mr_pouit> micahg: yes

 23:08:18 <charlie-tca> yes, knome

 23:08:19 <knome> night JPohlmann, and thanks for the valuable input

 23:08:21 <charlie-tca> I will be there

 23:08:27 <beardygnome> would a rolling release cycle be better or worse?

 23:08:40 <charlie-tca> worse, if Ubuntu does not support it

 23:09:07 <micahg> mr_pouit: that's why I figured that it wouldn't be much of a hit for us to keep the 3yr support for the LTS, which is the LTS->LTS upgrade (basically the same as Debian stable + 1yr of oldstable)

 23:09:12 <knome> charlie-tca, can you hear what people have to say about this, and do a quick report on what our choices worth considering are?

 23:09:23 <charlie-tca> yup

 23:09:27 <knome> charlie-tca, thanks

 23:09:44 <knome> #action charlie-tca to hear about the 5-year release schedule in UDS and report about it

 23:09:44 * meetingology charlie-tca to hear about the 5-year release schedule in UDS and report about it

 23:09:44 <charlie-tca> which is why I tried to say "this will be discussed at UDS before the final decision is made"

 23:10:02 <knome> i think it was good to hear what people think about it now

 23:10:22 <knome> so you can maybe tell some canonical/ubuntu people what we have been thinking about it

 23:10:36 <micahg> mr_pouit: but you handled the last LTS->LTS upgrade, if you think it's going to be too crazy to keep doing such a thing (just 2 yrs, i.e. a single LTS), then I respect your opinion on the matter, I'd just wondering how it differs from Debian stable -> stable transitions

 23:10:44 <knome> not that i keep high hopes that they'll run for us shouting they will help..

 23:11:01 <knome> micahg, i think it really is a madhouse to handle all those upgrades

 23:11:19 <knome> listening to mr_pouit's comments here and there

 23:11:27 <micahg> knome: Debian has to support it anyways if we stay in sync with the LTS and Debian stable, what extra work is thre

 23:11:35 <mr_pouit> micahg: no, we agree on that, I think it's fine as long as we have upgrades such as 4.6 -> 4.8 (we still have that in maintainer scripts)

 23:11:57 <mr_pouit> (with 4.6 -> 4.10, maybe we'll start having some nightmares at night ;-)

 23:12:27 <micahg> well, will Debian go to 4.10?  If not, I"m happy to stick with 4.8 for the LTS

 23:12:30 <knome> mr_pouit, so, are you saying we can keep on supporting lts1 -> lts2 releases, but not lts1 -> lts3 ?

 23:12:48 <mr_pouit> so the current scheme for LTS releases (I think it's 3y) seems to be fine

 23:13:01 <knome> okay

 23:13:01 <charlie-tca> So, supporting LTS at two to three years already means we are behind. If Xfce 4.10 comes out, they no longer support 4.8, which we will have in 12.04?

 23:13:14 <mr_pouit> (at least for upgrades)

 23:13:16 <GridCube> knome, that would be my suggesting but i know nothing about this

 23:13:27 <knome> GridCube, that's why i'm asking mr_pouit ;)

 23:13:35 <knome> GridCube, because i don't know either...

 23:13:39 <mr_pouit> (we probably need to do more SRUs if we want really to call that a LTS though :p)

 23:13:58 <knome> if we drop the "LTS" name

 23:13:58 <GridCube> we should keep our current lts program, and review this on 2020

 23:14:02 <micahg> mr_pouit: well, if upstream is bug fix only, we can ask for a microrelease exception

 23:14:02 <GridCube> :P

 23:14:23 <knome> and just call the "LTS->LTS" upgrades "long timeframe updates" or something

 23:14:26 <beardygnome> i think we needs some form of lts release

 23:14:45 <mr_pouit> micahg: for debian, it depends on the freeze date, but I think it'll be 4.8 if the freeze is in 6 months

 23:14:48 <GridCube> or LXS, long xubuntu support

 23:14:52 <knome> mr_pouit, does that sound feasible?

 23:14:59 <micahg> mr_pouit: I saw rumblings about June...

 23:15:42 <micahg> although, 4.10 is supposed to be a polished release, so meh

 23:16:14 <knome> i'd say let's end the discussion for today and get back to it after UDS, when we have some more information about it all

 23:16:37 <knome> anybody has something REALLY important about this?

 23:17:02 <GridCube> ..

 23:18:00 <knome> #subtopic ==== Other announcements ====

 23:18:17 <knome> i will take one-week (or less) break from FOSS in the following two weeks

 23:18:24 <knome> but i'll be back before UDS ends

 23:18:29 <GridCube> :)

 23:18:55 <micahg> so, is charlie-tca representing Xubuntu at UDS then?

 23:19:07 <knome> this is to keep my interest in FOSS growing in the future as well, as well as get some commercial work done, and moreover, to spend time with family and friends

 23:19:23 <charlie-tca> Yes, I will represent Xubuntu this time around.

 23:19:29 <knome> yes, i give charlie-tca the full rights to represent xubuntu at UDS

 23:19:37 <charlie-tca> Unless micahg wants to?

 23:19:46 <knome> i wasn't going to attend this time anyway (and i couldn't even if i wanted)

 23:20:41 * micahg will probably be testing Firefox updates at UDS :-/

 23:21:04 <knome> right. charlie-tca and micahg, feel free to represent xubuntu wherever you go.

 23:21:21 * micahg wonders if he can keep all these hats on his head

 23:21:27 <knome> just a quick announcement:

 23:22:05 <knome> i've briefly talked with the ubuntu studio devs about cooperating in getting something like edubuntu has in installation time - "choose your set of applications"

 23:22:16 <GridCube> :D

 23:22:33 <knome> these sets for xubuntu could be something like "only core xfce", "all accessibility packages", "full" etc.

 23:22:43 <micahg> AFAIK, we don't have an installer dev...

 23:23:22 <knome> we don't but ubuntu studio does

 23:23:32 <knome> cooperation means they'll do the work and we'll pick the fruits

 23:23:44 <knome> not really, but i'd like to investigate this possibility

 23:24:05 * micahg is all for collaboration

 23:24:29 <knome> yeah, we should cooperate and collaborate more with US devs, especially as they are moving to xfce now too

 23:24:53 <knome> anything else?

 23:24:57 <GridCube> :) and ubuntustudio wants to use xfce so we can help them there

 23:25:13 <GridCube> knome, this is when we speak freely?

 23:25:20 <holstein> we look forward to growing and helping you guys :)

 23:25:26 <knome> yes, feel free to

 23:25:26 <holstein> we = ubuntustudio team

 23:25:32 <knome> if nothing arises, i'll close the meeting

 23:25:38 <micahg> o/

 23:25:39 <GridCube> ok this is my list of things i've come whit

 23:25:48 <GridCube> feel free to not pay attentio to them now

 23:25:52 <knome> (any outstanding and not-discussed things in the agenda will be discussed in the next meeting)

 23:25:53 <GridCube> keyboard indicator for non-led'd keyboards

 23:25:53 <GridCube> new set of backgrounds

 23:25:53 <GridCube> gpicviewer by default image viewer

 23:25:53 <GridCube> darker theme

 23:25:54 <GridCube> use places for the pseudo-dock

 23:25:58 <GridCube> no autologin option on alternate

 23:26:00 <GridCube> no way to add it later whitout manually editing the .conf file

 23:26:02 <GridCube> bind the start menu to the meta-key

 23:26:04 <GridCube> why gmusicbrowser? going back to exaile is an option?

 23:26:08 <GridCube> deluge instead of transmission?

 23:26:10 <GridCube> drag-n-drop from thunar to xfburn doesnt work, "its not a feature" was said to me on #xfce

 23:26:14 <GridCube> what about talking to lubuntu people and using their package manager?

 23:26:48 <knome> GridCube, can you create a blueprint, or at least wikipage for all the application things before we go to them?

 23:26:53 * micahg could answer a few of those now

 23:27:01 <knome> GridCube, a short comparison/reasoning on why to change etc.

 23:27:09 <knome> GridCube, one wikipage is fine too :P

 23:27:12 <knome> micahg, go ahead

 23:27:29 <micahg> gmusicbrowser only replaced the player, we still have parole seeded

 23:27:53 * beardygnome supports keyboard indicator, gpicview and return to exaile

 23:27:54 <micahg> drag-n-drop from thunar to xfburn would be feature work upstream

 23:28:27 <knome> GridCube, xfburn ^ report a wishlist bug upstream

 23:28:33 <mr_pouit> (sorry, I really need to sleep, I'll read the backlog, good night)

 23:28:44 <GridCube> :) will do

 23:28:53 <GridCube> (when i learn how)

 23:29:10 <knome> night mr_pouit, and thanks!

 23:29:16 <micahg> Software Center is gaining access to different types of repos (including paid), if the lubuntu manager will have these features, then it's worth a look, otherwise, I don't know about switching unless software center is broke in Xubuntu (in which case we can probably get that fixed)

 23:29:30 <knome> i really like synaptic

 23:29:40 <micahg> GridCube: but feel free to make a list, we can hash it out later

 23:29:46 <micahg> knome: it's still in the repos :)

 23:29:46 <GridCube> i like synaptic too, but is not very userfriendly

 23:29:50 <knome> while that might not be as clean as software center, it is still quite good

 23:29:51 * beardygnome prefers synaptic too

 23:29:57 <GridCube> ok ill add it to my wiki page

 23:30:00 <knome> micahg, i think we even ship it by default?

 23:30:03 <knome> GridCube, thanks

 23:30:10 <micahg> knome: I don't think we do anymore..

 23:30:25 <micahg> oh, we do still :)

 23:30:34 <beardygnome> ubuntu dropped it, iirc

 23:30:37 <micahg> right

 23:30:43 <knome> we didn't drop :)

 23:30:50 <knome> micahg, did you have something else?

 23:30:51 <GridCube> we didnt

 23:30:56 <micahg> knome: yes, thansk

 23:31:14 <micahg> Firefox 8 coming to Stable releases Nov 8

 23:31:19 <micahg> oops

 23:31:25 <micahg> To natty/oneiric :)

 23:31:33 <micahg> and thunderbird 8 in oneiric

 23:32:26 <micahg> final builds can be tested at ppa:ubuntu-mozilla-security/ppa, beta builds at ppa:mozillatean/firefox-next and ppa:mozillateam/thunderbird-next

 23:32:26 <knome> nice

 23:32:42 <micahg> final builds won't be up until some time during UDS

 23:32:54 <knome> when is the first SRU

 23:33:12 <micahg> knome: can you clarify please?

 23:33:21 <knome> micahg, SRU for oneiric?

 23:33:29 <micahg> Firefox/Thunderbird?

 23:33:34 <knome> no, generally

 23:33:42 <knome> and will the FF/TB  updates make it

 23:33:44 <micahg> there are no point releases scheduled

 23:33:49 <micahg> it's as you go

 23:33:53 <knome> okay

 23:34:07 <micahg> these are security updates, so hopefully on release day, or as soon as I get them tested

 23:34:09 <knome> so we'll have those updates in by the first half of november for sure?

 23:34:39 <micahg> yeah, barring upstream hiccups

 23:34:43 <knome> mm-hmm

 23:34:59 <knome> if you need any help with that, feel free to ask this channel

 23:35:07 <knome> others, please help micahg if you can

 23:35:18 <micahg> well, beta testing/bug reporting is appreciated

 23:35:50 <micahg> final builds as well, but by that point, there's little we can do

 23:36:05 <knome> mm-hmm

 23:36:16 <knome> okay, is there anything else, or shall i end the meeting?

 23:36:33 <micahg> ..

 23:36:57 <knome> okay, we're done.

 23:37:00 <knome> thanks for attending!

 23:37:03 <knome> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
