{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== 2010-11-25 Meeting Minutes ==

=== Old Business ===
* charlie-tca to get with thorwil and Saleel about artwork specs by email 
** There is now a lively discussion taking place on the community artwork mailing list
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-art/2010-November/012604.html
** We have drawn up a draft of artwork specs for Xubuntu wallpaper, and any input is welcomed.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/0007_Xubuntu_Natty_Wallpaper

=== Team Reports ===
==== Technical ====
* uploaded exo 0.5.5 to natty

==== Documentation ====
* We do have an individual working the Xubuntu docs. He is working on updating things and I will have more on that the next meeting.

==== Bugs and Testing ====

* We are hoping to see more people involved in testing. If we do not have anyone committed to test, we will not produce the image.

==== Artwork ====
* Ochosi is currently reworking the xubuntu gtk-theme (aka bluebird), feel free to check it out @ http://shimmerproject.org/hg/bluebird-colors > greybird. 
** Ochosi is particularily interested in  
** panel
** window-switcher (alt-tab)
** scrollbars
* Ochosi is also working on an xfce-complete version of faenza (based on 0.7) which you can check out here: http://shimmerproject.org/hg/faenza-xfce
* Please give feedback to myself or ochosi on IRC

=== Announcements ===
* Natty Alpha1 cd's next week.
** We would really appreciate any help with testing these images starting November 30
* Xubuntu project needs marketing director and an Artwork Leader
 
=== Governance Discussion ===
* Sent an email to both Xubuntu Developers mailing list and the Community Council that we are looking to have a permanent Project Lead.
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2010-November/007614.html
** Nominations are open until the 15th of December.

=== Any Other Business ===
* Next meeting is Thursday, 2 Dec, same place, 19:00 UTC. 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-11-25 | Meeting log]]</nowiki>

=== Carried Forward ===

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/Xubuntu_2010-01-10 | previous log]]</nowiki>

==== Xubuntu Governance ====

* The governancy part of the current Strategy Document can be found at <nowiki>[[Xubuntu-StrategyDocument#Xubuntu Governance & Team Structure]]</nowiki>
* The Xubuntu project will advance towards a Council-based governance approach.

==== The Xubuntu Council ====

* The Council size should be 5 members, with one of them being the PL.
* PL will have a vote in every voting in the Council, not just as a tie-breaker.
* The 4 members in the Council in addition to the PL should be selected by the existing Xubuntu Contributors.
* The appropriate Team Lead can be the tiebreaker in a vote, but only if PL is absent.
* The council should *aim* to have balanced membership across the different aspects/teams of Xubuntu.
* The council should be named/selected after every LTS release. Thus, every season lasts for 2 years.

==== Action items for the next meeting ====

* Find out more information about LightDM
* follow up with xfce devs on display managers
** http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2010-August/028200.html
