{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 27 Jun at 22:00 &mdash; 22:14 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2017/xubuntu-devel.2017-06-27-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

''ACTION:'' slickymaster to reschedule the meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* slickymaster
** slickymaster to reschedule the meeting

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* slickymaster (9)
* meetingology (4)
* pleia2 (2)
