{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Contact Us ==

The Xubuntu team can be contacted via <nowiki>[[#IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[#Mailing lists|mailing lists]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-team|Launchpad]]</nowiki>. These mediums can also be used to get user support, report bugs et cetera.

For information on how to contact individuals responsible for specific components of the Xubuntu project, see the the <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Leaders|Xubuntu Leaders]]</nowiki> page.

=== IRC ===

There are three IRC channels in the Xubuntu "namespace", which all exist on the '''Freenode''' IRC network. IRC is usually the fastest way to get help due to its "live" nature. Sometimes the channels are inactive though, and in those cases it's best to use some other methods to get help or contact the developers.

* '''#xubuntu''' for community support
* '''#xubuntu-offtopic''' for general discussion with more relaxed mood
* '''#xubuntu-devel''' for development discussion

=== Mailing lists ===

There are two mailing lists; for help and user discussion and for development discussion.

* '''<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-users|Xubuntu Help and User Discussions]]</nowiki>, xubuntu-users''': This list is for discussion about using the Xubuntu distribution. For topics that also affect regular Ubuntu, please check the ubuntu-users list for quicker response times. 
* '''<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/|Xubuntu Development Discussion]]</nowiki>, xubuntu-devel''': This list is for discussion and coordination of Xubuntu development. Do not report bugs to this list. 
