{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu Community Meeting, 28 Aug at 22:00 &mdash; 23:08 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2020/xubuntu-devel.2020-08-28-22.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open Action Items ====
The discussion about "Open Action Items" started at 22:06.

** ''DONE:'' bluesabre to move code hosting and translations to GitHub and Transifex
** ''DONE:'' bluesabre to notify the ML of Xubuntu Council nominations

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 22:07.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 22:12.

* '''Xubuntu Council (bluesabre / knome)''' (22:12)
* '''Team Membership''' (22:22)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2020-May/011972.html 
** ''Vote:'' Add jphilips to xubuntu-team? (Carried)
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to mail the ML about adding jphilips to team (3/6 voted in favor)
* '''Feature Freeze / Feature Requests''' (22:34)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2020-March/011876.html 
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre/jphilips to send individual proposals to the ML

==== AOB ====
The discussion about "AOB" started at 22:50.

** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to add jphilips to the application Launchpad and GitHub groups

==== Schedule Next Meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule Next Meeting" started at 23:06.

** ''LINK:'' https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/groovy-gorilla-release-schedule/15531 
** ''ACTION:'' Team to schedule meeting the week of September 10

=== Vote results ===

* <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2020/xubuntu-devel.2020-08-28-22.00.log.html#79 Add jphilips to xubuntu-team?]]</nowiki>
** Motion carried (For/Against/Abstained 3/0/0)
** Voters pleia2, bluesabre, ochosi

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to mail the ML about adding jphilips to team (3/6 voted in favor)
** bluesabre/jphilips to send individual proposals to the ML
** bluesabre to add jphilips to the application Launchpad and GitHub groups
* jphilips
** bluesabre to mail the ML about adding jphilips to team (3/6 voted in favor)
** bluesabre/jphilips to send individual proposals to the ML
** bluesabre to add jphilips to the application Launchpad and GitHub groups

=== Done items ===

* bluesabre to move code hosting and translations to GitHub and Transifex
* bluesabre to notify the ML of Xubuntu Council nominations

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bluesabre (90)
* ochosi (30)
* pleia2 (22)
* meetingology (17)
* jphilips (14)
* ubot93 (6)
* Unit193 (3)
* ubottu (2)
* krytarik (1)
