{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/xubuntu-printer-config
* '''Created''': 2006-06-11 by JaniMonoses
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Packages affected'''
*** gnome-cups-manager
*** xfprint4: 

=== Summary ===

This spec is about easy configuration of printers in Xubuntu

=== Rationale ===

Unlike Gnome and KDE, Xfce does not have a GUI for detecting and adding new printers. Xubuntu 6.06 ships gnome-cups-manager on the CD but it is not installed by default.

=== Use cases ===

Users want to easily configure their printer in Xubuntu without installing Gnome or KDE apps or enabling the CUPS web interface.

=== Scope ===

Detection and adding of local and network CUPS printers. Configuring of printer parameters or job control is not
covered by this spec as those are already handled by xfprint.

=== Design ===

There are a few options to have such an app, the constraints being it has gtk only dependencies.

* Make gnome-cups-manager gtk-only (this is more feasible with gtk 2.10) and use it in common with Ubuntu
* Make libgnomecupsui gtk-only and use it from xfprint. (the only gnome dep in the lib is GnomePasswordDialog)
* Redo all the handling of CUPS within xfprint

These are ordered in decreasing order of preference from a code reuse POV, but need to evaluate the trade-offs,
as for instance doing it all in xfprint may be easier if we only target CUPS 1.2 and Ubuntu and do not deal with
the legacy code that may be carried in gnome-cups-manager.

** An entirely new PyGTK app is possible as well, depends on the other print related specs

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
