{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel: Xubuntu community meeting, 31 Oct at 15:14 &mdash; 16:18 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2013/xubuntu-devel.2013-10-31-15.14.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Items carried on ====
The discussion about "Items carried on" started at 15:14.

** ''ACTION:'' knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** ''ACTION:'' knome will send the updated SD to lists later this week

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 15:16.

** xfdesktop 4.11 has some nice features; builtin support for wallpapers based on the time, support for selecting a specific directory where xfdesktop looks for wallpapers instead of the fixed system directory
** Discussion about cherry-picking Xfce 4.11 components (and related issues) on Sunday, 3 November at 22UTC on #xubuntu-devel
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi and knome will try to invite some Xfce devs to the meeting

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 15:44.

** Today is set as the last day of brainstorming for the Roadmap; the team shall approve blueprints next week
** After approving, people have two weeks to finalize their specifications (where applicable)
** - When I ask people on the -dev list for what's likely to come up that needs testing during the cycle - can they please answer. Because I will be doing so.
** A meeting may be scheduled if circumstances warrant outside the regular team meeting schedule on creating the core seed
** During the next week I will be mailing -dev list re planning testing (cadence)
** ''ACTION:'' lderan to go through the gtk list to see which apps now work with autopilot

==== New ang emerging items ====
The discussion about "New and emerging items" started at 15:50.

* '''Xubuntu Core: Do we offer it only as a metapackage or shall we make downloadable media avaiable as well?''' (15:50)
** ''ACTION:'' Unit193 to send a proposed list of packages for -core to ML
* '''Documentation''' (16:08)
** ochosi thinks one way we can help both xfce and xubuntu is by improving the xfce docs
** e.g. for parole-docs we set up a staging site for the docs, we can do the same for other xfce components
** xfdesktop could use some updates, looking ahead at the changes of the 4.12 release
** so feel free to get in touch with ochosi if you wanna help out with xfce docs
* '''Schedule next meeting''' (16:16)
** There is a non-regular meeting on Sunday, 3 November at 22UTC on #xubuntu-devel about picking Xfce 4.11 components (and related issues)
** The next regular Xubuntu community meeting is on Thursday, 7 November at 15UTC on #xubuntu-devel

=== Action items, by person ===
* knome
** knome to prepare the website for the desktop of the week
** knome will send the updated SD to lists later this week
** ochosi and knome will try to invite some Xfce devs to the meeting
* lderan
** lderan to go through the gtk list to see which apps now work with autopilot
* ochosi
** ochosi and knome will try to invite some Xfce devs to the meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===
* knome (137)
* ochosi (63)
* skellat (29)
* elfy (23)
* micahg-work (22)
* GridCube (14)
* meetingology (12)
* lderan (7)
* PhilDick (6)
* xnox (5)
* jjfrv8 (3)
* slickymaster (1)
* jono_ (1)
* ubottu (1)
