{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Xubuntu team report for February, 2011 ====

===== Bug Triage =====

* Triaged over 100 bugs this month. 
 

===== Packaging, Development, & Testing =====

* Packaged Xfce4.8.1 for Natty Narwhal
* Many bugs have been fixed.
* Natty Narwhal Alpha2 was released on time.
* Xubuntu 10.04.2 was released, giving the users a much better experience when installing this three-year support release.

===== Website & Marketing =====

* The website has a new look. It is being re-designed for better user experience and easier maintainence.
* Xubuntu needs a Marketing Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.

===== Artwork =====

* We still need a good plymouth theme. 
* We have drawn up artwork specs for Xubuntu wallpaper, and any input is welcomed.
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Specs/0007_Xubuntu_Natty_Wallpaper
* The new theme and panel layouts are fully functional in Natty Narwhal.
* Xubuntu needs an Artwork Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.

===== Community =====

* We are striving to get more users to blog about Xubuntu. We would like to get word out of the changes being made, as well as new releases.
* The Xubuntu Community holds a regular meeting on Thursday at 19:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.
* Minutes and Logs from the meetings are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Meetings.
* The community meeting was held on 2011-02-03, 2011-02-10 and 2011-02-17

===== Documentation =====

* Xubuntu documentation for 10.04.2 was released, enabling a much improved user experience.
* Xubuntu documentation for Natty is being updated by Book_em_Dano
* Xubuntu needs a Documentation Lead. Contact us per http://xubuntu.org/devel or email charlie-tca@ubuntu.com, if interested.
