{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 14 Aug at 17:59 &mdash; 18:55 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2014/xubuntu-devel.2014-08-14-17.59.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 18:00.

** ''ACTION:'' marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to put list of xubuntu packageset packages on wiki
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to upload new xubuntu-default-settings
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to enable clutter in parole, set as default in xubuntu-default-settings
** ''ACTION:'' knome to check docs side of including pkexec policy files in favor of gksu

==== Team updates ====
The discussion about "Team updates" started at 18:05.

** QA is moribund still
** skellat has been engaged in backport requests and sync requests
** bluesabre enabled clutter in parole, but it's not been set xubuntu-default-settings yet.
** Beta 1 in 2 weeks time - will call for testing, depending on response will reflect on whether to bother with Final Beta
** ''ACTION:'' skellat to mail list to see if anyone wishes to identify specific low-hanging fruit tasks for the Global Jam

==== Announcements ====
The discussion about "Announcements" started at 18:13.

** Debian import freeze is in effect
** Feature freeze is coming up on the 21st.

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 18:16.

* '''Gksu/do''' (18:16)
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-July/010287.html 
* '''Discuss possible support of Xfce's bug bounty programme''' (18:27)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to work on drafting bounty/donation page for Xfce's bug bounty programme on xubuntu.org
* '''Make the Trello board publicly readable''' (18:28)
* '''Check whether the Blueprints and Trello board are in sync''' (18:30)
** ''ACTION:'' elfy to check whether the Blueprints and Trello board are in sync
** ''ACTION:'' elfy made Trello board publicly readable
** ''LINK:'' https://trello.com/b/P9r6ICd0/xubuntu-team 
* '''Other Business (and knome things)''' (18:33)
** ''ACTION:'' pleia2 to draft up meeting chair instructions and seek feedback
** Debian-side bugs list for gksu for the purpose of consideration for discussion: https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?repeatmerged=no&src=gksu
** ''LINK:'' https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2014-August/038428.html - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2014-August/038422.html

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 18:53.

** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to schedule next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* elfy
** elfy to check whether the Blueprints and Trello board are in sync
* knome
** knome to check docs side of including pkexec policy files in favor of gksu
* pleia2
** pleia2 to work on drafting bounty/donation page for Xfce's bug bounty programme on xubuntu.org
** pleia2 to draft up meeting chair instructions and seek feedback
* skellat
** skellat to mail list to see if anyone wishes to identify specific low-hanging fruit tasks for the Global Jam
* **UNASSIGNED**
** marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media
** bluesabre to put list of xubuntu packageset packages on wiki
** bluesabre to upload new xubuntu-default-settings
** bluesabre to enable clutter in parole, set as default in xubuntu-default-settings
** ochosi to schedule next meeting

=== Done items ===

* elfy made Trello board publicly readable

=== People present (lines said) ===

* pleia2 (88)
* elfy (45)
* knome (31)
* Unit193 (22)
* skellat (18)
* meetingology (14)
* GridCube (14)
* mhall119 (2)

=== Full Log ===

 17:59 <pleia2> #startmeeting

 17:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Thu Aug 14 17:59:27 2014 UTC.  The chair is pleia2. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 17:59 <meetingology> 

 17:59 <meetingology> Available commands: action commands idea info link nick

 17:59 <pleia2> ok, who do we have here?

 18:00 <skellat> o/

 18:00 <elfy> hi

 18:00 <pleia2> #topic Open action items

 18:01 <pleia2> "marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media" that didn't get done :) will re-action

 18:01 <pleia2> #action marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media

 18:01 * meetingology marketing team to support xfce's bug bounty programme by informing people on website and social media

 18:01 <pleia2> doesn't look like bluesabre, knome or ochosi are around to update on their items

 18:03 <pleia2> #chair elfy Unit193

 18:03 <meetingology> Current chairs: Unit193 elfy pleia2

 18:03 <pleia2> so do we just reaction all their stuff?

 18:03 <elfy> I guess so pleia2

 18:03 <skellat> No

 18:03 <Unit193> That's how it used to go, yeah.

 18:04 <pleia2> clear as mud

 18:04 <pleia2> will reaction so we can follow up at next meeting

 18:04 <elfy> well I can see no reason why not

 18:04 <pleia2> #action bluesabre to put list of xubuntu packageset packages on wiki

 18:04 * meetingology bluesabre to put list of xubuntu packageset packages on wiki

 18:04 <pleia2> #action bluesabre to upload new xubuntu-default-settings

 18:04 * meetingology bluesabre to upload new xubuntu-default-settings

 18:05 <pleia2> #action bluesabre to enable clutter in parole, set as default in xubuntu-default-settings

 18:05 * meetingology bluesabre to enable clutter in parole, set as default in xubuntu-default-settings

 18:05 <pleia2> #action knome to check docs side of including pkexec policy files in favor of gksu

 18:05 * meetingology knome to check docs side of including pkexec policy files in favor of gksu

 18:05 <pleia2> that's good, ochosi's item was mailing the list about xchat and that was done :)

 18:05 <pleia2> #topic Team updates

 18:06 <pleia2> ok, what are we up to? :)

 18:06 <Unit193> bluesabre enabled clutter in parole, but it's not been set the default yet.

 18:06 <pleia2> I don't really have any updates from web or marketing, so no #info from me

 18:06 <elfy> #info QA is moribund still

 18:06 <skellat> #info skellat has been engaged in backport requests and sync requests

 18:08 <elfy> # Beta 1 in 2 weeks time - will call for testing, depending on response will reflect on whether to bother with Final Beta

 18:08 <pleia2> anything else?

 18:08 <elfy> not from me

 18:08 <Unit193> #info bluesabre enabled clutter in parole, but it's not been set xubuntu-default-settings yet.

 18:08 <pleia2> #info Beta 1 in 2 weeks time - will call for testing, depending on response will reflect on whether to bother with Final Beta

 18:08 <pleia2> thanks elfy

 18:08 <skellat> Do we want any items to come up for Global Jam to be worked on/played with?  I had seen there was a meeting CCT held earlier today but I didn't catch all they went into.

 18:08 <elfy> oops sorry pleia2 :)

 18:09 <pleia2> docs and testing are really the only things we can do for Jam stuff

 18:09 <pleia2> but I'm not participating in UGJ this time around (will be traveling)

 18:10 <skellat> Can anybody identify specifics on our end and relate them to apparently mhall119 and/or dholbach?

 18:11 <skellat> That is to say, low-hanging fruit sorts of opportunities that would help us move forward

 18:11 <elfy> apparently not

 18:12 <pleia2> skellat: maybe mail the list to see if anyone is interested in that?

 18:12 <skellat> I'll take an action item for that

 18:12 <pleia2> #action skellat to mail list to see if anyone wishes to identify specific low-hanging fruit tasks for the Global Jam

 18:12 * meetingology skellat to mail list to see if anyone wishes to identify specific low-hanging fruit tasks for the Global Jam

 18:12 <pleia2> thanks skellat

 18:13 <pleia2> #topic Announcements

 18:13 <pleia2> anything?

 18:13 <elfy> nope

 18:13 <skellat> I've got nothing

 18:14 <Unit193> Feature freeze?

 18:14 <Unit193> Did we announce the calendar page with the trello and Xubuntu calendars?

 18:14 <elfy> I saw it somewhere Unit193

 18:14 <GridCube> i think that was announced in the mailing list a few weeks ago

 18:14 <pleia2> debian import freeze has happened, feature freeze comes up on the 21st

 18:15 <Unit193> OK, terrible memory and all. :(

 18:15 <pleia2> :)

 18:15 <Unit193> #info Debian import freeze is in effect

 18:15 <Unit193> #info Feature freeze is coming up on the 21st.

 18:16 <pleia2> #topic Discussion

 18:16 <pleia2> #subtopic Gksu/do

 18:16 <pleia2> #link https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-July/010287.html

 18:16 <mhall119> skellat: we need to update the UGJ wikipages first, then we'll have a place for you to put specific activities that would contribute to Xubuntu

 18:17 * mhall119 apologies for coming in late

 18:17 <GridCube> Unit193, https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2014-July/010321.html

 18:17 <pleia2> any gksu/do things?

 18:17 <elfy> pleia2: is that one not kind of dependent on knome's doc stuff?

 18:17 <Unit193> GridCube: Yep, thanks.  It's the memory again. :(

 18:17 <pleia2> elfy: perhaps!

 18:17 <GridCube> :)

 18:18 <skellat> mhall119: We still need to do harvesting on the Xubuntu side first.  You've got time.

 18:18 <elfy> I'd +1 returning to gksu tbh - not part of the discussion re removing it in the first place, but I really don't see why we should be the only falvour without gksu

 18:18 <elfy> hi mhall119 :)

 18:18 * pleia2 nods

 18:19 <skellat> elfy: The discussion in last meeting was that it was a tremendous hack and that we need to move towards getting pkexec-related compatabilities set up.

 18:19 <Unit193> pkexec is "nice" for things that support it and more secure, but really not so useful everywhere else.  I'd be in favor of using pkexec where we can, but gksu everywhere else and seeding it.

 18:19 <GridCube> who would do that

 18:19 <elfy> skellat: maybe so - but still there are huge bunches of people wandering around doing things for ubuntu

 18:19 <elfy> and pkexec smacks of the attitude with ibus - fine for us, sorry about you

 18:20 <elfy> Unit193: +1

 18:20 <pleia2> Unit193: +1

 18:20 <pleia2> did we end up with volunteers to pkexec things?

 18:20 <skellat> elfy: micahg wanted to drop it as catfish was one of the last things that needed it as a dependency which it doesn't anymore.  ochosi was advised by mainline security that gksu has security issues.

 18:21 <pleia2> boo security

 18:21 <elfy> pleia2: I had already got 3 here - put them on the wiki https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/Utopic/Pkexec

 18:22 <elfy> skellat: even so - where does that put everyone else - and I repeat - it is US and Studio that don't seed gksu

 18:22 <elfy> and I don't see the sky falling in on anyone else

 18:22 <pleia2> elfy: oh good

 18:23 <skellat> elfy: That will require further study to see where it puts us in the overall realm of who is using gksu & who isn't

 18:23 <elfy> skellat: Ubuntu, Studio and Xubuntu don't have gksu

 18:24 <elfy> knee jerk reaction to it whenever it was

 18:24 <skellat> I was thinking outside the Ubuntu realm

 18:24 <elfy> I've no interest in that

 18:24 <Unit193> #rank name                            inst  vote   old recent no-files (maintainer)

 18:24 <Unit193> 378   gksu                           2554519 23075 2528873  1693   878 (Gustavo Noronha Silva)

 18:25 <skellat> The lurking issue of systemd has to be remembered which can and does inform what we do across the Ubuntu flavors even when we're not the ones directly deciding

 18:26 <elfy> that'll be lurking for sometime I would think

 18:26 <Unit193> Yep.

 18:26 <pleia2> yeah

 18:26 <Unit193> Also, not sure what systemd has to do with gksu directly.

 18:27 <elfy> so - I'd say postpone this till next meeting

 18:27 <pleia2> elfy: wfm

 18:27 <pleia2> #subtopic Discuss possible support of Xfce's bug bounty programme

 18:27 <pleia2> I think this was also agreed, yay

 18:28 <pleia2> #action pleia2 to work on drafting bounty/donation page for Xfce's bug bounty programme on xubuntu.org

 18:28 * meetingology pleia2 to work on drafting bounty/donation page for Xfce's bug bounty programme on xubuntu.org

 18:28 <pleia2> #subtopic Make the Trello board publicly readable

 18:29 <pleia2> elfy: know anything about this one?

 18:29 <elfy> I've no issue with that - easily done, regardless of readability - only people ON the board can post afaik

 18:29 <pleia2> seems logical

 18:29 <pleia2> anyone have objections?

 18:30 <elfy> not me

 18:30 <elfy> I'd vote perhaps - then move it to m/l - give it a week

 18:30 <skellat> Go for it especially after the static bluesabre got from DMB

 18:30 <pleia2> #subtopic Check whether the Blueprints and Trello board are in sync

 18:30 <pleia2> this one just sounds like just an action item someone should take

 18:30 <elfy> I can do that pleia2

 18:31 <pleia2> #action elfy to check whether the Blueprints and Trello board are in sync

 18:31 * meetingology elfy to check whether the Blueprints and Trello board are in sync

 18:31 <pleia2> elfy: thank you

 18:31 <elfy> but what about the readability thing :)

 18:31 <elfy> yay or nay or move to m/l

 18:31 <pleia2> elfy: yay

 18:31 <pleia2> yea?

 18:31 <pleia2> do eet

 18:31 <elfy> :)

 18:31 <elfy> done

 18:32 <pleia2> #done elfy made Trello board publicly readable

 18:32 <elfy> get confirmation from someone lurking like krytarik

 18:32 <elfy> https://trello.com/b/P9r6ICd0/xubuntu-team

 18:32 <pleia2> krytarik: can you see the board?

 18:32 <Unit193> Works.

 18:32 <knome> i'm here!

 18:32 <skellat> Heck, I can even see it when I'm not logged into trello so it is world readable

 18:32 <Unit193> knome: Welcome.

 18:32 <elfy> hi knome

 18:32 <pleia2> cool

 18:33 <pleia2> #subtopic Other Business (and knome things)

 18:33 <pleia2> :D

 18:33 <pleia2> ok, anything else?

 18:33 <knome> gee, thanks :P

 18:33 <pleia2> heheh

 18:33 <Unit193> Perhaps document better how Xubuntu runs the meetings?

 18:33 <pleia2> am I doing that badly? :)

 18:33 <elfy> pleia2: no but I suspect Unit193 know's he's up soon :p

 18:34 <Unit193> < pleia2> clear as mud  that kind of gave a hint.

 18:34 <pleia2> oh yeah

 18:34 <pleia2> I can draft up instructions and ask people to fix them

 18:34 <GridCube> this is the first meeting im able to attend in about a year probably :(

 18:34 <knome> pleia2, be in touch with me on that.

 18:34 * skellat references the Debian-side bugs list for gksu for the purpose of consideration for discussion: https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?repeatmerged=no&src=gksu

 18:35 <pleia2> knome: will do

 18:35 <pleia2> #action pleia2 to draft up meeting chair instructions and seek feedback

 18:35 * meetingology pleia2 to draft up meeting chair instructions and seek feedback

 18:35 <pleia2> skellat: thanks for the link

 18:35 <pleia2> #info Debian-side bugs list for gksu for the purpose of consideration for discussion: https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?repeatmerged=no&src=gksu

 18:36 <pleia2> GridCube: in that case, have anything you wish to discuss? :)

 18:37 <GridCube> as a side effect of not being able to properly know how i can contribute for not joining conversations, no, though i liked the fact that some of the questions where forwarded to the mailing list where i could add my two cents

 18:37 <elfy> GridCube: I'd agree that's been a good thing

 18:38 <knome> we could start sending a mail that notifies about the meeting minutes being up

 18:38 <Unit193> Or, send the meeting minutes like several other teams do.

 18:38 <pleia2> maybe we add that to chair tasks

 18:38 <knome> so the meeting results would get more exposure to public, and probably open some discussion

 18:38 <GridCube> talking about that questions, the droping of xchat, i understand that we already droped it, but i would like that then we add a link on whishkers menu called "online help" that sends people to the web client for our channel on the main page

 18:39 <knome> not all of the issues are something we want/need to discuss on the mailing list

 18:39 <GridCube> knome, no, i understand

 18:39 <Unit193> Right, and I'd prefer not.

 18:39 <knome> Unit193, prefer not what?

 18:40 <Unit193> Every discussion happing on the ML, seems overkill.

 18:40 <knome> yeah.

 18:40 <knome> GridCube, what we are doing is making an experiment on how people react on xchat being removed

 18:40 <elfy> then that goes against what we decided - if it's a meeting discussion it should go to m/l for those not able to be here

 18:41 <knome> GridCube, if we decide it's the right way, we can then discuss if we want a menu item

 18:41 <knome> elfy, i was referring to mostly "for information" items :)

 18:41 <elfy> ok

 18:41 <GridCube> knome, i see. i don't agree but i understand.

 18:41 <knome> besides, i'm probably thinking a bit differently than you;

 18:41 <pleia2> well, I think meeting minutes being sent to the list should be more of a FYI thing, we still want threads started for important discussions

 18:42 <knome> not ALL of the things we discuss in the meeting *must* be a meeting/team discussion

 18:42 <pleia2> and I think just a link in an email, like: we had a meeting, read about it here:

 18:42 <elfy> pleia2: wfm

 18:42 <GridCube> sure, im not asking to move the meetings to the mailing list

 18:42 <knome> it's just that the meeting is a good forum to discuss things and get it archived somewhat reasonably to logs that are much more accessible than irclogs.ubuntu.com ;)

 18:42 <GridCube> i just liked that some question where forwarded there where i could participate

 18:42 <Unit193> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2014-August/038428.html - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2014-August/038422.html

 18:42 <pleia2> GridCube: nods

 18:43 <pleia2> we should keep doing that, it's good, we usually get feedback

 18:43 <knome> GridCube, definitely. that's more related to voting than meetings itself.

 18:44 <GridCube> mmhm

 18:44 <knome> extending the voting to the mailing list we can guarantee to either 1) get a quorum or 2) give enough time for everybody to be able to vote

 18:45 <knome> (even if technical quorum isn't met)

 18:45 <pleia2> yeah

 18:45 <knome> that being said...

 18:46 <knome> the strategy document doesn't talk about "expiring" from -team in vain

 18:47 <knome> i'm not saying there's anybody specific who shouldn't be part of the team, but please keep it in mind and judge with your own conscience whether you think you are warranted the membership

 18:47 <knome> (and thus, a vote in every vote, and making the quorum harder to reach in numbers)

 18:47 <knome> we don't want to kick anybody out, but it's the best for all to have an up-to-date membership list :)

 18:48 <elfy> indeed - totally agree with that

 18:48 <knome> and that said...

 18:48 <knome> we're happy to have old contributors back

 18:48 <knome> and they'll probably gain their membership faster since we already know them..

 18:51 <pleia2> knome: maybe an agenda item for next meeting?

 18:51 <GridCube> knome, i understand

 18:51 <knome> pleia2, of what? :)

 18:51 <pleia2> expiring team

 18:51 <knome> well, sure, though it should be an ongoing item ;)

 18:51 <pleia2> ah ok

 18:52 <knome> so maybe not

 18:53 <pleia2> ok, anything else?

 18:53 <elfy> I'm good pleia2

 18:53 <GridCube> not from me

 18:53 <knome> nope

 18:53 <skellat> Adjournment sounds great

 18:53 <pleia2> #topic Schedule next meeting

 18:53 <elfy> ochosi

 18:54 <pleia2> I'm on there twice, so I forgets :)

 18:54 <pleia2> is it ochosi up next?

 18:54 * knome checks

 18:54 <elfy> yea - twice in a row :)

 18:55 <knome> yeah, i believe so ;)

 18:55 <pleia2> #action ochosi to schedule next meeting

 18:55 * meetingology ochosi to schedule next meeting

 18:55 <elfy> then it's the Debian Liason's turn ...

 18:55 <pleia2> I'll do meeting minute stuff after lunch

 18:55 <pleia2> thanks all

 18:55 <pleia2> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology)
