{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Default Webcam Application ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: 1px solid #888; width: 100%;" -2> Overview
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Title'''
| Default Webcam Aplication
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;"> '''Blueprint'''
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Assignee'''
| Grid''''''Cube
|}

=== Detailed specification ===

As most, if not all, current notebooks, netbooks and portable computers today come with embedded webcams, and how common they are to acquire its only rational that a modern operative system should include programs for:
* take pictures and video
* use video conference software

As its supposed that pidgin is able to do video conference (never could make it work myself, probably needs both users to be using pidgin) the software that its not included by default is one that gives users the ability to take pictures and video from their cameras.

=== Desired Features ===

It should be able to take pictures and video. Save into shareable formats. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="border: 1px solid #888; width: 100%;" -3> Desired Set of features an behaviors
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;font-weight:bold;"> Software
| Pictures format
| Video format
| in the repos
| toolkit
| note
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;">'''Cheese'''
| JPEG
| WEBM
| yes
| gtk
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Camorama'''
| JPEG,PNG
| none
| yes
| gtk
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #fafafa;">'''kamerka'''
| ?
| ?
| ?
| QT4
| 
|-
| <rowstyle="background-color: #ededed;"> '''Kamoso'''
| ?
| ?
| ?
| QT4
| 
|}

There are other but they are terminal applications.

=== Conclussion ===

As its easy to see, Cheese its the only program currently in the repositories that has all the needed features, its gtk and easy to use.
