{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

The Xubuntu Wiki is a knowledge source for documentation concerning the development of Xubuntu flavor of Ubuntu GNU/Linux. Most of the information needed for development of any aspect of Xubuntu Documentation will be found here. There will be times you will be referred to the main <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Home|Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>, which this is a part of, and other times you will be linked to <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/|the Xubuntu website]]</nowiki>. User documentation should be maintained on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|Help Wiki]]</nowiki>. 

Since this wiki contains the development documentation, it is a very important part of our community and documentation efforts.

== Wiki Organization ==

Development Team members should be able to quickly and easily find information needed in these pages to assist in deployment of each version of Xubuntu. To continue to work towards that goal, as much old and new information is kept available as necessary.

For those individuals new to the team, this may seem like overload and confusing at first. It will shortly become obvious that much of this information has not become obsolete, but is simply set aside for a while until such time as can be worked again.

There is a great deal of effort made to keep the majority of this documentation up to date with the most current version of xubuntu in current and in development. Please keep in mind, this means at least three versions at all times.

As community mainainted documentation, you can help with this wiki. If you see something wrong, feel free to fix it, if you want to. You can edit almost all of the pages on this site.  For information on editing, see <nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing|Help on Editing]]</nowiki>. Please observe the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> at all times.

== Xubuntu Wiki Structure ==

The Xubuntu wiki menu bar (at the top of each wiki page) provides direct links to the primary pages in the Xubuntu wiki, but you can <nowiki>[[Xubuntu/Documentation/Wiki/Structure|click here]]</nowiki> to view the complete Xubuntu wiki hierarchy.

== Naming Guidelines ==

All Xubuntu related wiki pages are organized in a hierarchy with Xubuntu/ being the root. So, if there was a Hardy background art page then it might look like http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Artwork/Hardy/Backgrounds
This means that when individuals are creating new wiki pages, they should check to see how their page fits in the hierarchy already created. For example, the same example could also be http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/art/Feisty/Backgrounds but since we already have Artwork (and not art), it would not be incorrect.

----
CategoryDocteam
