{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting information ===
* #xubuntu-devel Meeting, 03 Nov at 11:00 &mdash; 11:39 UTC
* Full logs at <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/xubuntu-devel/2015/xubuntu-devel.2015-11-03-11.00.log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Meeting summary ===

==== Open action items ====
The discussion about "Open action items" started at 11:01.

==== Updates and Announcements ====
The discussion about "Updates and Announcements" started at 11:03.

** to see what people have worked on, check http://tracker.xubuntu.org/#tab-timeline
** gmb currently disabled from testing re known bug (flocculant)
** call for first priority tests went out (flocculant)
** had 6 new people arrive at Xubuntu testers since cycle start (flocculant)
** had someone (akxwi-dave) join Xubuntu QA (flocculant)
** testcases all gone through 1 check, some new changes landed (flocculant)
** looking at adding QA 'stuff' to the new contributor docs (flocculant)
** QA trello set up so testers can see what's happening (flocculant)
** QA trello has a 'Disabled Tests' card there for information (flocculant)

==== Discussion ====
The discussion about "Discussion" started at 11:11.

* '''16.04 Wallpaper contest?''' (11:11)
** ''ACTION:'' knome to send a mail about volunteers to run the wallpaper contest
** ''ACTION:'' bluesabre to look into creating a submission/voting interface for the wallpaper contest
* '''Media manager choice''' (11:24)
** ''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/X/DefaultMediaManager 
** ''ACTION:'' ochosi to set up a poll for voting on option A or B from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/X/DefaultMediaManager

==== Schedule next meeting ====
The discussion about "Schedule next meeting" started at 11:36.

** ''ACTION:'' flocculant to schedule the next meeting

=== Vote results ===

=== Action items, by person ===

* bluesabre
** bluesabre to look into creating a submission/voting interface for the wallpaper contest
* knome
** knome to send a mail about volunteers to run the wallpaper contest
* ochosi
** ochosi to set up a poll for voting on option A) or B'''''') from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Roadmap/Specifications/X/DefaultMediaManager

=== Done items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* knome (88)
* ochosi (77)
* bluesabre (36)
* meetingology (12)
* Nairwolf (6)
* akxwi_dave (2)
* slickymasterWork (2)
* krytarik (1)
