{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== The Ubuntu 100 Users Project ==

==== Project Overview ====

Based loosely on the 100 Papercuts concept lead by David Siegel of the Design Team, this project aims to introduce Ubuntu to 100 new users in this cycle.  Project team members and individuals are encouraged to each introduce Ubuntu to a new person and track that work on the team or personal wiki.  The number 100 was chosen b/c it is manageable, easy to track and achievable by any dedicated team or person.

==== Project Design ====

Each team/person will create a wiki page with a table with 100 rows with the following column titles:

Team Member | New User  | Date Introduced | Notes (can include feedback from the new user, observations, blog posts, links to pics, anything but keep it short |

That's it!  We just want a tangible way to show progress and activity, doesn't need to be fancy or formal just help promote Ubuntu to new users and let the world know about it.  Once you reach 100, then we start over or transition to another level of mentoring.  

===== Sample Table =====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Ubuntu Mentor/Team Name'''
| '''New User'''
| '''Date Introduced'''
| '''Notes'''
|-
| 1. Dinda/Ubuntu for Education
| R_hernandez
| TBD
| Teacher and my sister, will post feedback when I have it.
|-
| 2. UbuntuRockstar|individual
| UbuntuFutureRockstar
| TBD
| Luved it! can't believe they don't need virus software and that it's Free! here's a link to my blog post about it and how easy it was to install new codecs
|}

==== 100 Users Club ====

For the first three individuals who introduce Ubuntu to 100 new users each, Dinda will send you an Ubuntu t-shirt!  To make this fair and encourage new users to get involved I've created a group on Launchpad called the 100 Users Group.  As you introduce your new users to Ubuntu they will need to create a Launchpad account and join the group.  The individuals who take on this challenge will also need to have signed the Code of Conduct.  The Launchpad Team can be found here: https://launchpad.net/~100ubuntuusers

The project officially kicks off on Monday, 14 June 2010.

==== Participating Teams/Individuals ====

Add your info here if you want to participate and give a link to your wiki page.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Ubuntu Mentor/Team Name'''
| '''Wiki Page'''
|-
| 1. Dinda/Ubuntu for Education
| <nowiki>[[100NewUbuntuEducators|100NewUbuntuEducators]]</nowiki>
|-
| 2. Jessica Ledbetter
| <nowiki>[[jledbetter|Tracking to 100]]</nowiki>
|-
| 3. Paul Mellors
| <nowiki>[[PaulMellors|100 Ubuntu Users]]</nowiki>
|-
| 4. Charles Profitt
| <nowiki>[[cprofitt-100users|100 Users]]</nowiki>
|-
| 5. Evalyn Gossett
| <nowiki>[[egossett-100users|100 Users]]</nowiki>
|-
| 6. Ben Donald-Wilson
| <nowiki>[[benny-100users|100 New Ubuntu Users]]</nowiki>
|}
 
----
CategoryEducation CategoryBeginnersTeam CategoryBuildingCommunity
