{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== What is HWE? ==

Hardware Enablement Stacks (HWE) are incorporated into installers for select Ubuntu LTS (Long Term Support) point releases.  It is a special Ubuntu feature that provides an LTS release with hardware support introduced in newer Ubuntu releases.  For Ubuntu 12.04 the point releases are .2/.3/.4/.5 and the corresponding Ubuntu releases are 12.10/13.04/13.10/14.04.

The HWE path can be obtained in 2 ways:

# Installing Ubuntu from the media (ISO) for these point releases (where HWE is used by default)
# Manually installing some packages

End-of-life (EOL) for 12.04, 12.04.1, and 12.04.5 HWE is April 2017 but for the other HWE stacks it is roughly when 14.04.1 is released: Aug 8, 2014.

Further reading:

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack (HWE details)
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Support (Kernel team)

== And why should I care? ==

Starting Aug 8, 2014 systems running 12.04.2 HWE, 12.04.3 HWE, or 12.04.4 HWE will no longer receive software updates for the kernel and, if you're running it, the graphics stack.

== How do I know if I'm affected? ==

You can:

# use a tool expressly designed to let you know
# look at what packages you have installed

=== Tool ===

The tool is called '''hwe-support-status''' and it will be available first in the -proposed and then in the -updates repositories:

* precise-proposed (by June 13)
* precise-updates (by June 27)

It will become available in package '''update-manager-core'''.

To run:

<pre>
hwe-support-status --verbose
</pre>

Get it from Launchpad if you want it earlier:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install bzr -y
cd ~
bzr co --lightweight  lp:~mvo/update-manager/hwe-support-status
cd hwe-support-status
./hwe-support-status --verbose
</pre>

Notes on this tool:

* Contains the central logic used by other mechanisms/software that have been modified to alert the user of HWE EOL.  These are:

## update-manager (desktop)
## update-notifier
## ubuntu-support-status

* On affected systems, it provides command line instructions for machines not running a graphics stack (typically servers).  It will refer you to a graphical tool (update-manager) if a graphics stack is detected (typically desktops).

=== Packages ===

Check your running kernel version:

<pre>
uname -r
</pre>

* you are affected if it shows a kernel in these series: 3.5 or 3.8 or 3.11
* you are not affected if it shows a kernel in these series: 3.2 or 3.13

This method does not check for a graphics stack HWE.  However, you cannot get a HWE graphics stack without a corresponding HWE kernel unless you've done things manually.  Note that such a combination (HWE graphics with non-HWE kernel) is not supported.

== What to do if I'm affected? ==

You have three options:

# Install 12.04.5 HWE (Trusty kernel/graphics)
# Upgrade to 14.04 LTS
# Fresh install of 14.04 LTS

=== 1. Install 12.04.5 HWE (Trusty kernel/graphics) ===

The hwe-support-status tool will tell you what you need to do.

=== 2. Upgrade to 14.04 LTS ===

The hwe-support-status tool will tell you what you need to do.

If you want to upgrade a desktop system to 14.04 before July 16, 2014 (the date at which all necessary software components are in the regular -updates repository) you will need to invoke update-manager from the command line:

<pre>
update-manager -p
</pre>

For both servers and desktops it's strongly recommended to ensure a system is in a good state before upgrading.  Here are some tips:

* Enough free space (2x the size of all installed packages)
* Update all packages
* Run ''sudo apt-get autoremove'' to clean up old packages
* Ensure a reboot works normally (and on dual boot Linux machines, note which operating system controls the bootloader/GRUB)
* Perform a backup of important data

=== 3. Fresh install of 14.04 LTS ===

Redeploy with a fresh copy of Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.

== FAQ ==

* '''I am running 12.04.2 HWE.  From August 8, 2014 onwards my system will no longer receive package updates?'''
Not true.  Such a system will only stop receiving updates for the kernel and the graphics stack.  The rest of the software will continue to get updates.

* '''So if I am running 12.04.3 (as seen from ''lsb_release -d'') then starting from August 8, 2014 my kernel and graphics stack will no longer receive package updates?'''
Not true.  12.04.3 is not 12.04.3 HWE.  And since HWE (and thus a new kernel series) cannot be introduced through regular package updates it is possible to update a non-HWE system to arrive at a later point release, such as 12.04.3, and still preserve the EOL date of April 2017.

* '''What are the pros and cons of those options?'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| HWE Upgrade Only
| Full 14.04 Upgrade
| Fresh 14.04 Install
|-
| Kernel
| 14.04/Trusty version (v3.13)
| 14.04/Trusty version (v3.13)
| 14.04/Trusty version (v3.13)
|-
| Graphics
| 14.04/Trusty Xorg and drivers
| 14.04/Trusty Xorg and drivers
| 14.04/Trusty Xorg and drivers
|-
| EOL
| 12.04/Precise EOL (April 2017)
| 14.04/Trusty EOL (April 2019)
| 14.04/Trusty EOL (April 2019)
|-
| Applications/Servers
| Generally no change
| Newer 14.04 versions will be installed, may need reconfiguring
| Require complete installation and configuration
|-
| Time (minutes)
| 2-10
| 30-120
| 30, not including configuration
|}
