{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page describes how to install a Jaunty RC image to an iMX51 Babbage board.

=== Preparation and image writing ===

First of all you need to download the <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/jaunty/rc/ubuntu-9.04-rc-desktop-armel.img|RC Image]]</nowiki> to a large enough SD card (1GB will suffice); !SanDisk were reported as better supported.

For writing the image either use the usb-imagewriter tool which you can install from the Jaunty universe archive (packages for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/%7Eogra/+archive/ppa/+files/usb-imagewriter_0.1.2-0ubuntu1~hardy~ppa1_all.deb|Hardy (8.04)]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/%7Eogra/+archive/ppa/+files/usb-imagewriter_0.1.2-0ubuntu1~intrepid~ppa1_all.deb|Intrepid (8.10)]]</nowiki> can be found at the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ogra/+archive/ppa|usb-imagewriter PPA]]</nowiki>) or follow the commandline method below.

<pre>
sudo dd bs=4M if=./ubuntu-9.04-rc-desktop-armel.img of=/dev/mmcblk0
</pre>
(assuming your SD card is called /dev/mmcblk0)

You'll also need an USB mass storage device or a SATA disk as the target installation device; 8 GB is the recommended size for a desktop install.

/!\ There are known power issues with the USB ports on the board, the safest way to work around this is to use a powered USB HUB to attach your target device to the board.

=== Starting the live system ===

Plug the SD card into the SD card slot and power up your board, it will boot into a live session.

=== Starting the installer ===

Just doubleclick the "Install" icon on the desktop and follow the normal install procedure.

/!\ Note that it's hard to install to the SD card (/dev/mmcblk0) itself, you would have to create the partitions manually yourself first; it's preferable to install to an USB mass storage device or to a SATA disk instead.

=== After installation ===

You need to leave your SD card in the board as the boot device: the babbage currently only boots from SD.  It will load your target installed system.

=== Known Issues ===

* <nowiki>[[Bug:358362|bug #358362: Usplash doesn't work on Babbage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bug:357690|bug #357690: boot is slow in initramfs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bug:182473|bug #182473: Wifi module misbehaves]]</nowiki>

If you experience any other bugs, please report them with the ubuntu-bug tool that is installed on your system.
