{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Summary ===

The current update-manager requires a lot of attention from the user whilst installing updates. A better situation would be the ability to right click the updates available icon and select a new option "install all updates in background". After selecting this option the only new window that the user will see is the password dialog and once authenticated, updates will proceed and the 'updates available' icon should be animated to show upgrade activity.

=== Release Note ===

The first release should provide for background package installs that do not display any window other than the authentication dialog.

=== Rationale ===

Backgrounded updates are something that other desktop oriented operating systems already provide. It is a very slick way to provide an up to date and secure system with minimal user interference. Something like this would be ideal in a call center (assuming the sys admin could initiate upgrades remotely) where the user is expected to have multiple windows open on the desktop and might find other windows that they don't care about being displayed. Even when minimised the windows show during alt+tab window switching. 

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec CategorySpec CategorySpec
