{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Dogfooding Ubuntu Phone ==

On this page I (Jono Bacon) am tracking my dogfooding of Ubuntu Touch on a Galaxy Nexus phone. My carrier is T-Mobile (US) and I am only tracking the features and requirements I need to use the phone on a general day to day basis. I am not tracking every bug or feature that is required for a final and complete version of Ubuntu Touch.

The primary functions I am striving for in this dogfooding is:

* Making/recieving calls and text messages -- '''WORKING'''.
* Browsing the web on my mobile and wireless connections  -- '''WORKING FOR WIFI, TODO FOR MOBILE'''.
* Browsing and adding contacts  -- '''WORKING'''.
* Taking photos with the camera and browsing them -  -- '''WORKING'''.
* Using the clock to see the time and wake me up in the morning  -- '''TODO'''.

== Features That Are Missing ==

=== Higher Priority ===

* Screen auto shut-off when not used (otherwise the screen stays on and the battery dies) - '''DONE'''
* Data on the cell network (primarily needed for browsing the web while out and about)
* Setting the phone time - '''Can set this via the shell, but UI needed'''
* No alarm functionality in the clock app.
* No voicemail button.

=== Lower Priority ===

* Speakerphone for calls
* Import and publication of contacts to an external service
* Can't add an app or item to the Launcher as a favorite.

== Bugs That Need Fixing ==

A master bug list for getting dogfood ready is at https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-touch-preview/+milestone/ubuntu-13.05

=== Higher Priority ===

* SMS conversation view not in chronological order  - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181342 -- '''Bug caused by incorrect time, new bug being filed so time can be set'''
* No way to add a contact from an existing number  - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181343 - '''FIXED'''
* New messages and missed calls are not showing up in the indicator  - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1180537 - '''FIXED'''
* SMS recieve sound is not loud enough, even when on full volume - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181650
* Recieving a call doesn't switch to the phone app - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181654 - '''FIXED'''

=== Lower Priority ===

* Phone appears as open app in apps scope but it isn't really an app - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181570
* Deleting a contact does not ask for confirmation - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181337
* Keyboard appears over toolbar  - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181339 - '''FIXED'''
* Reciving a call doesn't switch the screen on so you can accept/ignore the call - https://bugs.launchpad.net/phone-app/+bug/1181652 - '''FIXED'''
* Browser needs its own UA string - https://bugs.launchpad.net/webbrowser-app/+bug/1179596
