{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Bagus Tris Atmaja ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bagustris|bagustris]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''E-Mail''':
| bagustris@linuxmail.org
|-
| '''IRC''':
| bgstris  <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/|freenode]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.bagustris.tk]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| bagustris@jabber.org
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1107218|bagustrix]]</nowiki>
|}

== Introduction ==

Mr. Bagus is an Ubuntu user since 2009. Although he is still trying to be geek, he can share what he learned, how-to install and fix problem on Linux system as long as he can solve it. You can read his post about  experience, problem solving, unsolved problem, tips and trick on GNU/Linux <nowiki>[[http://bagustris.blogspot.jp/search/label/GNU%2FLinux | here]]</nowiki>. Mr. Bagus is willing to learn and share his Linux experience by going to café, drink a cup of coffee, and hacking his Laptops while talking about open source and Future of Ubuntu. He learn about unity, dash, lens, libreoffice, apt-get, libreoffice (writer, calc, impress), and many more CLI (command line interface) on terminal. Currently Mr. Bagus is with <nowiki>[[ http:--vibrastic.ep.its.ac.id | VibrasticLab ]]</nowiki> as researcher and engineer. Most of computer in his lab installed with Ubuntu LTS version.

== Community Involvement ==
Still trying to get involved in Ubuntu community development.

=== Ubuntu Forums ===
* ~+  <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=bagustrix|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> +~
* Member of the Ubuntu Forums since January 1st, 2009

=== Ask Ubuntu ===
* Member of Ask Ubuntu with 1K3 reputation and counting > <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/users/89017/bagustris | bagustris]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Beginners Team ===
* Member on the <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam|Ubuntu Beginners Team]]</nowiki> since February 1st, 2009

== Future Hopes ==

What I want to achieve in the future?  Long term and short term goals are perfect :)
--> I hope I can participate in Ubuntu development, at least, in near future.

== Testimonials ==
This is where other people will write testimonials about my work. I don't actually write anything here, let I get your writing about me :)
* So, If you knows me, send your testimonial in my email | bagustris@linuxmail.org |
* Testimonial
* Testimonial

== Social Media ==

* facebook: https://www.facebook.com/bagustris
* gplus: https://plus.google.com/u/0/107809562073111577517
* twitter: https://twitter.com/bagus_tris
