{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Balaam's Miracle ===
Balaam's Miracle is one of the translators of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-nl|the Dutch Translation Team]]</nowiki>.

Born and raised in the Netherlands, Balaam's Miracle is a native speaker of the Dutch language, but he has learned to speak English very early in life, although not out of necessity.

His knowledge of the English language is caused by his insatiable curiosity, which led him to learn English very early in his life. By the age of 5, he already drove his mother to the edge of insanity by asking her for the translations of what people said in English-spoken TV shows.

Although his grasp of the English language grew increasingly better over the years, his grades in high school did not reflect that. Even more surprisingly, he never got a higher grade than a 4 (a <nowiki>[[#grades|low D]]</nowiki>) for Dutch class whereas his highest grade for English class was an 8 (<nowiki>[[#grades|roughly a B-]]</nowiki>). As a result, Balaam's Miracle never graduated from high school nor got any kind of diploma.

At age 14 he left high school and subsequently managed to dodge the compulsory education laws by becoming a student of so-called "vormingscentrum" where attendance was either not required, or limited to a certain frequency (like once a week).

However, his almost obsessive desire to perfect his language skills in both the English as well as the Dutch language, has over the years caused a huge improvement in both skills, and although he - in his own words - doesn't know a verb from a noun, his spelling and grammar are currently at a level which - according to some people - equals that of a University graduate.

----
=== Comparing High School Grades: ===

Dutch system:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%":>1
| <:>2
| <:>3
| <:>4
| <:>5
| <:>6
| <:>7
| <:>8
| <:>9
| <:>10
|}

US system:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablewidth="100%":>F
| <:>E
| <:>D
| <:>C
| <:>B
| <:>A
|}

=== Translation guidelines ===
Ziezo, genoeg Engels. Vanaf hier alleen nog maar Nederlands omdat dat nou eenmaal de taal is waar ik naartoe vertaal.
Hieronder volgt een lijst met valkuilen (met name die kuilen waar ik zelf in ben gevallen) en algemene vertaalregels voor het vertalen van het Engels naar het Nederlands.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Voorbeeldtekst'''
| '''Foutieve vertaling'''
| '''Correcte vertaling'''
| '''Reden'''
|-
| About This Program
| Over Dit Programma
| Over dit programma
| In het NL worden titels met kleine letters geschreven
|-
| Package Manager
| Pakket beheer
| Pakketbeheer
| Pakketbeheer is in het Nederlands één woord
|-
| Your computer
| Jouw computer
| Uw computer
| De gebruiker wordt ten alle tijde met "u" aangesproken
|}

Er komt meer, maar dit is nu even voldoende. :-)
