{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ball Mill is an efficient tool for grinding many materials into fine powder. The Ball Mill is used to grind many kinds of mine and other materials, or to select the mine. It is widely used in building material, chemical industry, etc. There are two ways of grinding: the dry way and the wet way. It can be divided into tabular type and flowing type according to different expelling mine. To use the Ball Mill, the material to be ground is loaded into the Neoprene barrel that contains grinding media. As the barrel rotates, the material is crushed between the individual pieces of grinding media that mix and crush the product into fine powder over a period of several hours.   Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: provide reasonable product selection and design,scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements, strict production process,on time delivery  

Quite simply, the longer the Ball Mill runs, the finer the powder will be. Ultimate particle size depends entirely on how hard the material you're grinding is, and the time how long the Ball Mill runs. Our Ball Mills have been used to grind glass, powder food products, create custom varnishes, make ceramic glaze, powder various chemicals, and make Black Powder. 

http://www.trituradoramin.com
http://www.grinderpro.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Crusher.html
http://www.crushingmill.com/Raymond.html
http://www.grinderpro.com/Spanish/Hammer.html
http://www.vipeakgroup.com/Spanish/Sand_Washing.html
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com/sand_making_machine.html
http://www.vktrituradora.com/
