{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Amin Bandali, apply for Ubuntu Contributing Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Amin Bandali
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~bandali
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/bandali
|}

I am applying because:

* I regularly contribute to Ubuntu packages as a Canonical employee.
* I'd like to make my commitment to Ubuntu and its development more official through becoming an Ubuntu Member.

== Who I am ==

I'm Amin Bandali (or just bandali) and I'm a Software Engineer on the Desktop Team at Canonical, where I work mainly on the maintenance of Ubuntu's Firefox packages.

I'm a free/libre software activist and computing scientist by passion, and a software developer/engineer by profession.  I wear a few hats around the GNU Project, including as GNU maintainer of Jami, and I'm also an ex-intern and current volunteer with the Free Software Foundation.

I also recently became a Debian Maintainer, and I'm working towards hopefully becoming a Debian Developer in the not-so-distant future.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I first tried Ubuntu as a teenager in the late 2000s (I believe it was 9.04), and started using it regularly not very long after.  Since then I've used Debian, Ubuntu, and many of their derivatives among other distros.  I first contributed to Debian in 2020 and more recently took up maintenance of two packages, and I started contributing directly to Ubuntu as well in November 2022 when I started as a Software Engineer on the Desktop Team at Canonical.

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Maintenance of the Firefox deb packages for <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mozillateam/firefox/firefox.bionic|bionic]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~mozillateam/firefox/firefox.focal|focal]]</nowiki>, with uploads to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-mozilla-security/+archive/ubuntu/ppa|ppa:ubuntu-mozilla-security/ppa]]</nowiki> regularly sponsored to the archives by the security team.

* Maintenance of the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/firefox-snap|Firefox snap]]</nowiki> package for newer Ubuntu releases.

* Merges/syncs from Debian unstable:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grilo-plugins/+bug/2007623|LP #2007623]]</nowiki>: Merge grilo-plugins 0.3.15-2 (universe) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/gnome-team/gtk3/-/merge_requests/15|salsa:gnome-team/gtk3!15]]</nowiki>: Merge debian/3.24.36-4
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/ubuntu-dev-team/plymouth/-/merge_requests/1|salsa:ubuntu-dev-team/plymouth!1]]</nowiki>: Merge debian/22.02.122-3
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/gnome-team/gnome-calculator/-/merge_requests/11|salsa:gnome-team/gnome-calculator!11]]</nowiki>: Merge debian/1%43.0.1-2
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/librsvg/+bug/2006633|LP #2006633]]</nowiki>: Merge librsvg 2.54.5+dfsg-1 (main) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libqmi/+bug/2006628|LP #2006628]]</nowiki>: Merge libqmi 1.32.2-1 (main) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/modemmanager/+bug/2006625|LP #2006625]]</nowiki>: Merge modemmanager 1.20.4-1 (main) from Debian unstable (main)
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/gnome-team/gtk3/-/merge_requests/11|salsa:gnome-team/gtk3!11]]</nowiki>: Merge debian/3.24.34-5 + <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/gnome-team/gtk3/-/merge_requests/12|fix]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/gnome-team/gtk4/-/merge_requests/10|salsa:gnome-team/gtk4!10]]</nowiki>: Merge debian/4.8.2+ds-3
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/gnome-team/gnome-initial-setup/-/merge_requests/14|salsa:gnome-team/gnome-initial-setup!14]]</nowiki>: Merge debian/43.1-2
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tiff/+bug/1997278|LP #1997278]]</nowiki>: Merge tiff 4.4.0-5 (main) from Debian unstable (main)

* <nowiki>[[PlusOneMaintenanceTeam|+1 maintenance]]</nowiki> rotation:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.debian.org/1030222#15|BTS #1030222#15]]</nowiki>: selint: depend on 'valgrind-if-available' and skip tests that need valgrind on problematic arches
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.debian.org/1030161|BTS #1030161]]</nowiki>: roundcube: fix short date test before and after ICU 72.1 + <nowiki>[[https://github.com/roundcube/roundcubemail/pull/8904|github:roundcube/roundcubemail#8904]]</nowiki> (upstream)
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/lavamind/httpdirfs-fuse/-/merge_requests/2|salsa:lavamind/httpdirfs-fuse!2]]</nowiki>: fix build on architectures where undefined behaviour sanitizer is not supported

* More examples in <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/search?q=category%3A23%20%40bandali|my weekly Desktop Team Updates posts]]</nowiki> on the Ubuntu Community Hub (Discourse).

=== Areas of work ===

As part of the Desktop Team at Canonical, I've worked primarily on/around desktop-related packages.  For my work on Firefox, I've collaborated mainly with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~seb128|seb128]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ricotz|ricotz]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~osomon|osomon]]</nowiki>, as well as some folks from Mozilla.  For my merges/syncs and +1 rotation I've worked primarily with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha|jbicha]]</nowiki>.

Upstream of Ubuntu, I'm the maintainer of the opendht and jami/ring packages in Debian as a Debian Maintainer.

=== Things I could do better ===

When faced with a particular challenge/problem, I'd like to do better at asking for help/hints earlier than I sometimes currently do.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

After becoming a contributing developer and doing some more sponsored uploads, I'd like to apply for the ubuntu-desktop set.  I'd also like to expand my activities and contributions to other areas of Ubuntu beyond the desktop, working towards one day becoming a core dev.

Upstream of Ubuntu, I'm a Debian Maintainer working towards becoming a Debian Developer maintaining the opendht and jami/ring packages, as well as other packages from gnome-team and emacsen-team in particular.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

One thing that somewhat stood out in my experiences as a fairly new Ubuntu contributor/developer was the documentation in some areas being a bit confusing, lacking, or outdated.  I believe in the importance of writing and maintaining good documentation, and hope to be able to help improve it.

----

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----

== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Jeremy Bicha ===
==== General feedback ====
I strongly support Amin's application for Ubuntu Contributing Developer. I look forward to his future application for Ubuntu developer upload rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Amin and I have worked on the Canonical Desktop team together since November. Although Amin's primary work is web browser maintenance, he has also <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=*Bandali|merged]]</nowiki> several Ubuntu packages to incorporate Debian changes. He fixed multiple issues in universe packages during his <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-February/042457.html|+1 rotation]]</nowiki>, and he forwarded his work to Debian.

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

Amin has joined the Canonical Desktop Team in November. He became since the main maintainer for Firefox on Ubuntu (snap and deb), working with upstream and the Ubuntu Security team to get new versions rolled out. He's also actively helping the Ubuntu Desktop Team with packaging tasks (merges, updates and did a +1 rotation). 

I've sponsored a plymouth merge recently for him and the work was solid, the package was uploaded to Lunar after a minor tweak.

Amin is showing active interest in Ubuntu and I think he contributed enough already to deserve getting the contribution dev status.

=== Nishit Majithia ===
Amin has been working with the Canonical Security team as a Firefox maintainer since November 2022. As a security engineer at Canonical, I have had the privilege of working closely with Amin on sponsoring Firefox debs (bionic and focal) for Ubuntu.

Amin's contributions have been instrumental in ensuring that Ubuntu users receive timely security updates and bug fixes. Based on his extensive contributions and outstanding work with the Canonical Security team, I wholeheartedly endorse Amin as an Ubuntu Contributing Developer.
----

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
