{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu Bangladesh - The "Deshi" Local Community Team ==

=== Our Goals ===

* To have Ubuntu users, developers, translators, and volunteers come together
* To help new users get starting by assisting information and technical support
* To promote Ubuntu for companies and home users
* To provide support to all educational sectors
* To organize events
* To organize and participate in projects
* To represent Ubuntu in all major FOSS events in Bangladesh 
* To do presentations and courses
* To interact closely with international Ubuntu community

=== Joining Ubuntu Bangladesh (Ubuntu-BD) ===

Are you a Ubuntu user, developer, translator, or a volunteer? Do you want want to meet other Ubunteros in Bangladesh who believes in the spirit of Ubuntu? If yes, then join us. Joining the Ubuntu-BD team is easy:

1. Login to your <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|Launchpad]]</nowiki> account and join <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bd|Ubuntu Bangladesh]]</nowiki>.
3. Join the official <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bd|Ubuntu mailing list for Bangladesh]]</nowiki>.

Done, you are now a Ubuntu-BD member!

=== Workshops ===

*** Migrating to Linux: An Introduction to Open Source Tools
          o June 15, 2006 at North South University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=24|Photos]]</nowiki>)
*** Ubuntu Linux for Home Users
          o April 8, 2007 at East West University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=33|Photos]]</nowiki>)
*** Ubuntu Hardy Heron Release Party
          o May 17, 2009 at Hunger Project - Bangladesh, Dhaka
*** Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex Live
          o October 21, 2008 at Presidency University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=36|Photos]]</nowiki>)
*** Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope Live
          o May 29, 2009 at Presidency University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=39|Photos]]</nowiki>)
*** Ubuntu Karmic Koala Release Party
          o November 21, 2009 at IBAIS University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=40|Photos]]</nowiki>)
    
=== Latest Events ===
*** A survey on Linux Users in Bangladesh 2011
          o 9th May 2011 to 31st May 2011

*** Ubuntu Maverick Meerkat Release party
          o 4th Week of November, 2010; HFC Food Court, Dhanmondi.

*** <nowiki>[[LinuxAdda|LinuxAdda]]</nowiki>, October
          o October 22, 2010 at Dhanmondi Lake Rabindra Sarobar, Dhaka

*** Software Freedom Day 2010 Meet-up
          o September 18, 2010 at University of Dhaka premises, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=43|Photos]]</nowiki>)

*** <nowiki>[[Bontu-Mintur-Adda|Bontu-Mintur Adda]]</nowiki>
          o July 23, 2010 at University of Dhaka, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/displayimage.php?album=42&pid=1638|Photo]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/ayonkhan/BontuMintuRAdda|More Photos]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://www.prothom-alo.com/detail/date/2010-08-06/news/84266|National Press Coverage]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue205#Bangladesh%20LoCo%20team%20rockin%E2%80%99%20it%20at%20Bontu%20Mintur%20Adda|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki> | International Blogosphere: <nowiki>[[http://humphreybc.wordpress.com/2010/08/03/bangladesh-loco-team-rockin-it-at-bontu-mintur-adda/|Benjamin Humphrey]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=1487|The official LinuxMint Blog]]</nowiki>)

=== Upcoming Events ===

=== Trade Shows / Festivals ===

==== BCS Computer Show 2006 ====
Ubuntu Bangladesh participated at <nowiki>[[http://www.bcscomputershow.com|BCS Computer Show]]</nowiki> 2006, which was held between Semptember 17, 2006 to September 23, 2006. Organised by the Goverment of Bangladesh's Ministry of Science and Information and Communication Technology and Bangladesh Computer Samity, this year's fair had 85 stalls and 26 pavilions exhibiting new cutting edge computer technologies. On Ubuntu-BD's 300 sqaure feet pavilion, 1178 school-going students were taught how to use Edubuntu Linux. 9000+ leaflets were distributed between visitors which had detailed information on Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu. 250 Ubuntu CDs and 150 Edubuntu CDs were also distributed. 
(<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=29|Photos]]</nowiki>)

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.org.bd|Bangladesh Linux Users Alliance]]</nowiki>

=== Communications ===

* Website: http://www.ubuntu-bd.org
* Mailing List: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bd 
* Forum: http://forum.linux.org.bd
* Wiki: http://wiki.linux.org.bd
* IRC: <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-bd|#ubuntu-bd]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net
* Launchpad Team: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bd

Questions, queries, suggestions? Let us know:

<nowiki>[[ShahriarTariq|Shahriar Tariq]]</nowiki>, Team Leader <shahriar@linux.org.bd>

<nowiki>[[Shabab|Shabab Mustafa]]</nowiki>, Liaison Officer <shabab@linux.org.bd>

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
