{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Events conducted by Bangladeshi Team ==

=== Workshops ===

==== 2006 ====

* Migrating to Linux: An Introduction to Open Source Tools
          o June 15, 2006 at North South University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=24|Photos]]</nowiki>)

==== 2007 ====
* Ubuntu Linux for Home Users
  April 8, 2007 at East West University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=33|Photos]]</nowiki>)

=== Release Parties ===

==== 2008 ====
* Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex Live
  October 21, 2008 at Presidency University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=36|Photos]]</nowiki>)

==== 2009 ====
* Ubuntu Hardy Heron Release Party
  May 17, 2009 at Hunger Project - Bangladesh, Dhaka
* Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope Live
  May 29, 2009 at Presidency University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=39|Photos]]</nowiki>)
* Ubuntu Karmic Koala Release Party
  November 21, 2009 at IBAIS University, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=40|Photos]]</nowiki>)
* Ubuntu Maverick Meerkat Release party
  4th Week of November, 2010; HFC Food Court, Dhanmondi.

=== Other Activities ===

==== 2010 ====
* <nowiki>[[Bontu-Mintur-Adda|Bontu-Mintur Adda]]</nowiki>
  July 23, 2010 at University of Dhaka, Dhaka (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/displayimage.php?album=42&pid=1638|Photo]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/ayonkhan/BontuMintuRAdda|More Photos]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://www.prothom-alo.com/detail/date/2010-08-06/news/84266|National Press Coverage]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue205#Bangladesh%20LoCo%20team%20rockin%E2%80%99%20it%20at%20Bontu%20Mintur%20Adda|Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter]]</nowiki> | International Blogosphere: <nowiki>[[http://humphreybc.wordpress.com/2010/08/03/bangladesh-loco-team-rockin-it-at-bontu-mintur-adda/|Benjamin Humphrey]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=1487|The official LinuxMint Blog]]</nowiki>)
* Software Freedom Day 2010 Meet-up
  September 18, 2010 at University of Dhaka premises, Dhaka. (<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=43|Photos]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[LinuxAdda|LinuxAdda]]</nowiki>, October
  October 22, 2010 at Dhanmondi Lake Rabindra Sarobar, Dhaka.

==== 2011 ====
* A survey on Linux Users in Bangladesh 2011
  9th May 2011 to 31st May 2011

=== Trade Shows / Festivals ===

==== BCS Computer Show 2006 ====
Ubuntu Bangladesh participated at <nowiki>[[http://www.bcscomputershow.com|BCS Computer Show]]</nowiki> 2006, which was held between Semptember 17, 2006 to September 23, 2006. Organised by the Goverment of Bangladesh's Ministry of Science and Information and Communication Technology and Bangladesh Computer Samity, this year's fair had 85 stalls and 26 pavilions exhibiting new cutting edge computer technologies. On Ubuntu-BD's 300 sqaure feet pavilion, 1178 school-going students were taught how to use Edubuntu Linux. 9000+ leaflets were distributed between visitors which had detailed information on Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu. 250 Ubuntu CDs and 150 Edubuntu CDs were also distributed. 
(<nowiki>[[http://gallery.linux.org.bd/thumbnails.php?album=29|Photos]]</nowiki>)

--------------------------
