{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bmillemathias|BaptisteMilleMathias]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''baptistemm''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''GnuPG key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xD3C4B7C8169089A3|0x169089A3]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Introduction ===
Hi, I'm Baptiste Mille-Mathias (quite difficult to pronounce in English), I'm French, and I use ubuntu for a long time; I was beta tester of the private version (when ubuntu was still www.no-name-yet.com IIRC).

Age: 31

Location: Mandelieu (French Riviera), France

IRC: baptistemm on GIMPnet and Freenode.

Launchpad: https://edge.launchpad.net/~bmillemathias

=== Activities ===

==== Ubuntu ====
I used Ubuntu since the private Beta, as I knew <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~seb128|Sébastien Bacher]]</nowiki> which proposed me to test it and to provide my feedback.

I really loved it because it was like debian but better, and because suited for my personal usage.

I contribute in Ubuntu in several manners:
* Packaging GNOME modules release (with sponsoring from the Desktop Team)
* I try to keep the bluetooth stack sane (bluez, gnome-bluetooth, obexd, obex-data-server, ...):
** Report Bugs
** Bugs triaging
** Check new version and package it.
** cherry-pick fixes for report bugs
** Have some contact with upstream developpers.
** Providing help on IRC (various #ubuntu channels and upstream channels).

==== GNOME ====
I'm also a GNOME enthusiast for years, I began to use it in 1999, and I contributed since 2002:
* Translations
* Member and founder of GNOME-FR (The association of French speaking people)
* French Events and GUADEC conferences
* A lot of Bug triaging and some Patching
see http://live.gnome.org/BaptisteMilleMathias
