{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Hi.  I'm Barry Warsaw.  I have worked for Canonical since January 2007.  For
my first three years, I was on the <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
<nowiki>[[http://dev.launchpad.net/Registry|Registry]]</nowiki> team, where I was primarily
responsible for the implementation, care, and feeding of
<nowiki>[[http://dev.launchpad.net/Registry/MailingLists|Launchpad mailing lists]]</nowiki>.  I
did a bunch of other things registry-related as well.  In early 2010, I joined
the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam|Ubuntu Platform Foundations]]</nowiki>
team.

Want to know about the latest developments in <nowiki>[[Python|Python on Ubuntu]]</nowiki>?

=== Brief background ===

I've been a core <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org|Python]]</nowiki> developer since 1995, and
worked with Guido in <nowiki>[[http://www.pythonlabs.com/|PythonLabs]]</nowiki> at various
previous employers.  I've written many
<nowiki>[[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?%3Aaction=search&term=barry+warsaw&submit=search|independent Python libraries]]</nowiki>, was instrumental in the development of the
<nowiki>[[http://docs.python.org/library/email.html|email package]]</nowiki>, was lead
maintainer of <nowiki>[[http://www.jython.org|Jython]]</nowiki> for a while, and have had my
hand in many aspects of the Python community and running the python.org
infrastructure.  I was release manager for
<nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0361/|Python 2.6 and 3.0]]</nowiki> and a few
earlier versions.

I'm probably best known for being the lead developer on
<nowiki>[[http://www.list.org|GNU Mailman]]</nowiki>, a mailing list manager, for which I won
the Second Annual <nowiki>[[http://www.pizzigatiprize.org/|Antonio Pizzigati Prize]]</nowiki>.
In fact, it is GNU Mailman that powers Launchpad's mailing lists.

In my previous incarnations I did a lot of Emacs development.

You can find out more about me at my personal website http://barry.warsaw.us
including my GPG and SSH public keys, and some of my non-computer related
interests.  Yeah, I do have <nowiki>[[http://www.wefearchange.org|a blog]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu Development ===

I work a lot on various <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org|Python]]</nowiki> issues in Ubuntu, Debian, and upstream.  I do other stuff too.

=== New machine buildout ===

When prefixed by a letter, step applies to that version of Ubuntu.

* Fix display resolution
* '''use gnome-tweak-tool'''
** Swap control and capslock
** Key theme - "Emacs"
* sudo apt install openssh-server openssh-blacklist-extra 
* sudo apt install bzr jed etckeeper python-all-dbg python-all-dev python3-all-dbg python3-all-dev aptitude subversion mercurial git
* sudo apt install emacs25 emacs-goodies-el emacs25-el pyflakes flake8 pylint pylint3 python-mode
* sudo apt install claws-mail* clawsker gnome-do chromium-browser
* apt update; dist-upgrade; reboot
* sudo etckeeper init; cd /etc; git commit -a -m'etckeeper init'
* Go through System Settings
* 24-hour clock, set location, wind speed in mph
* set background to solid color (0/8/15 hsv - 38/35/35 rgb - #262323)
* cd ~/.ssh; wget http://barry.warsaw.us/authorized_keys; chmod
* from elsewhere, scp standard vm ssh credentials to ~/.ssh
* cd ~
* git remote add origin ssh://
* git fetch
* git co --force -t origin/master
* /etc/default/grub - text boot
* idle time screensaver to 1hr
* sound theme == none
* system -> preferences -> startup applications; disable gnome login sound (bug 277203)
* system -> administration -> login screen (check and then uncheck login sound)
* setup Terminal
** Dark Ambiance (make default via Profiles...)
** 80x46
** text color (0/0/100 hsv - 255/255/255 rgb - #ffffff)
** background color (0/0/19 hsv - 48/48/48 rgb - #303030)
** background solid color, no transparency
** unlimited scrollback
* rm -f ~/examples.desktop
* gconftool-2 -s /apps/notify-osd/gravity -t int 2 (sucks, but it's the best we can do apparently)
* fix /etc/hosts
** remove mapping for 127.0.1.1 (dhcp will dtrt)
* apt-get tweaks
** <code>echo 'Acquire { HTTP { Proxy "http://apt.wooz.org:3142"; }; };' > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/02proxy</code>
** clean up sources.list
* sudo apt-get build-dep python python3 python2.7 python3.5
* rsync -avz .claws-mail newmachine:
* rsync -avz .config/chromium newmachine:.config
* rsync -avz .mozilla/firefox/blah.default newmachine:.mozilla/firefox
* FF default dance
* add new machine to geometries in ~/env/elisp/fsfmacs/start.el
* mkdir ~projects && cd ~projects
* git clone git@gitlab.com:python-mode-devs/python-mode.git
* git clone git@gitlab.com:warsaw/winring.git
* preferences -> keyboard shortcuts
** activate the window menu (disable)
** minimize window (alt+h)
** maximize window vertically (alt+down)
** maximize window horizontall (alt+right)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.wefearchange.org/2011/07/ignore-at-your-own-peril.html|This]]</nowiki>

==== native mbp ====

* !MacBook Pro
** ln -s env/keyboards/snowdog .xmodmaprc
** sudo hciconfig hci0 reset
** pair trackpad; disable apple trackpad when other device present
