{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Contact ==

'''Name''': Barry deFreese

'''Born''': 15 March 1970 (Yes, I'm old)

'''Location''': Schwenksville, Pennsylvania USA

'''Email''': bddebian@comcast.net

'''IRC''': bddebian on irc.freenode.net

== About ==

Not much to say really.  I started with RedHat, then moved to Debian fairly quickly.  I'm basically a "luser" who longs to be a hacker.

== Involvement ==

Over the last few years, most of my involvement has been trying to help build/fix Debian packages for GNU/Hurd and a little bit of hacking on GNU Sysutils.

Unfortunately because I work full-time and have 3 small children, I can't dedicate a great deal of time but I do try to contribute wherever possible.

 - Joined NuN and try to help out in #ubuntu where possible

 - Working on UniverseUnmetDeps (See <nowiki>[[UniverseUnmetDeps]]</nowiki>)

 - Trying to help with <nowiki>[[MOTU/Packages/Merging]]</nowiki> - See list there

 - Created <nowiki>[[MOTUMergeTips]]</nowiki> wiki page

 - Created <nowiki>[[MOTUWannabeTips]]</nowiki> wiki page

 - Started on Malone bugs

 - Working on GL/GLU transitions

== Packages ==

I really have no specific package that I am inherently interested in.  Again, I typically just like to help out where/if I can.

 - python-pyrtf:  Updated from upstream for tritium and repackaged. (On REVU)

 - fpc:  Built from UniverseCandidates but apparently it is already in the archive?

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
