{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== BaseSeedProposals ==

This is the place to propose changes to the Base seed.  Read SeedManagement before making a proposal.

 a. vbetool # mjg59
** Needed for ACPI suspend/resume

 a. sysv-rc-conf / rcconf # TreyEarl
** Need some kind of simple tool for new users to turn on/off services.
** Perhaps better to do from GNOME? (simular to system-config-services on Fedora)

From andiibowsher Fri Jan 14 18:04:44 +0000 2005
From: andii bowsher
Date: Fri, 14 Jan 2005 18:04:44 +0000
Subject: desktop
Message-ID: <20050114180444+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I'd like to add my voice to having gcm in the package: I miss klipper! It's one of the most productive tools I used.
Beyond that -not been very up on the technicalities- how possible would it be to get SynCE added in, if not to the distribution, at least into the universe? It's great that evolution is palm-friendly but those of us who have ipaqs and the like [mitac mio in my case] are probably not an insubstantial client-base either [and if anyone then had an easy way to turn the thing into a linux handheld I'd be there!].

From CarlosFenollosa Tue Feb 15 15:11:54 +0000 2005
From: Carlos Fenollosa
Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2005 15:11:54 +0000
Subject: Upgrading kernel, Nvidia and X
Message-ID: <20050215151154+0000@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

I noticed that when you upgrade (or update) the kernel, mainly because of some security issue, you need to reinstall the Nvidia drivers in order to load the X windows.

The average user wouldn't know how to do this, so maybe we could add some way to reinstall the nvidia driver when first rebooting into a new kernel

Maybe this could apply to ATI cards, but I don't own any of them.
