{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===
My name is Billy D. Quinn. I am a retired Telecom IT professional and have worked in various telecom domains in the fields of building networks, fault isolation to restoration of all related circuitry, billing, and Revenue analysis. I have experience in application Development, utilization of Databases in CUDIX, UNIX, DEX, NEC, NEAX, and IBM based system Administrations. My operating system of choice is 'buntu. Within Ubuntu I have gained a level of comfort and share my knowledge to others in their fault isolation. My work experience includes a wide variety of networking protocols and operating components, and how this Ubuntu operating system works. I am an advocate of the open source movement in general and a staunch supporter of ubuntu in particular. I always seek a means to apply a computer and my skills to any situation and application !

As I am now retired and living in the backwoods of Arkansas; sadly I have forgotten more than I will ever use. However, this too gives an opportune time.

My introduction to 'buntu was from that of a friend - grousing about Windows -. He showed me (K)ubuntu, I was sold ! I soon discovered (U)buntu and made the switch (sure did miss Kate) and in my efforts of exploration I discovered "ubuntuforums.com". After a period of reading and learning from the forum - I found that in reading others request - hey I know that situation ! I can offer my aid. I presently operate a minimal install with xfce4 for a GUI. My hardware is old, takes some loving care to keep it going, and as it is old - the KISS principle applies. I Have learned a lot in making it so.
In Feb 2024 I gained a newer system - 32 Gigs of ram! - but xfce4 minimal install remains my system of choice. 

Since those early days I have continued my efforts to support the Ubuntu ecology.
* Forum join date: July 12, 2010
* Unanswered Posts team: June 5, 2013
* answers.launchpad: June 6, 2013
* Granted Ubuntu Membership: January 21, 2014
* Ubuntu cloaked people on freenode: January 22, 2014
* Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter: Editor April 1, 2018
* Ubuntu Wiki Editors: April 13, 2018
* Ubuntu-discuss Bug team: March 3, 2019
* ubuntu-news: Committed - March 15, 2019
* Ubuntu Membership Board: Member - December 1, 2020
* Ubuntu Community Discourse: Sectional Moderator - November 7, 2023
* Ubuntu Community Discourse: Full Moderator status: November 14, 2024
* Ubuntu Community Discourse: Promoted to Trust Level 4 - leader: January 28, 2025
* Ubuntu Matrix: Promoted to Admin - April 29, 2025

I sit down before this keyboard and each day I ask, what can I learn today; how can I help.
27nov2024 - After all these years, still ^ has not changed.

=== Contact Information ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Forum''':
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1111508
|-
| '''Discourse''':
| https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/congratulations-you-ve-been-granted-moderator-status/49662
|-
| '''IRC''':
| Bashing-om on irc.libera.chat
|-
| '''Launchpad''':
| https://launchpad.net/~bashing-om
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}

=== Contributions ===

 {*} Ubuntu Forums Support: Beans: 14,351 - Forums turned down January 2025

 {*} Elected to serve a third consecutive term on the Ubuntu Membership Board: Dec 23, 2024

 {*} Ubuntu Community Discourse: Granted full Moderator status by a fellow staff member - Nov 14, 2024

 {*} Selected to serve another term on the Ubuntu Membership Board: Nov 22, 2022

 {*} Ubuntu Member cloak on the Libera network - May 24, 2021

 {*} Transitioned to #ubuntu @ irc.libera.chat - May 20, 2021

 {*} Active participant in the founding of New``Docs: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PopularPages - Jun 13, 2013 with a continuing interest in it's development.

 {*} Active in the weekly publication of the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter.

 {*} Elected member to the Ubuntu Membership Board - Dec 4, 2020

 {*} Active in reviewing bug reports and sometimes responding : Ubuntu-discuss Bug team - Mar 5, 2019

 {*} Active participant in the Unanswered Posts team - Dec 5, 2013

 {*} I am active on #ubuntu and twenty one other channels @ libera.chat.

 {*} I have been known to offer assistance on Launchpad answers;

 {*} Daily prosecution of help request on Ubuntu Discourse;

My goals are to increase my knowledge of the Ubuntu ecology at large, and to share my skills. My efforts in the support arena give me broad exposure to those who make a difference. In Working our community Weekly Newsletter I have gained a wider exposure to many aspects of what is "Ubuntu". I am aware of those who make contributions and those that are detrimental. These I intend to give back to the community.
With operating system support's transition from the Forums to the Discourse platform I was selected to serve as a Moderator. Fulfilling this community obligation entails a lot to learn on my part. My road that is less traveled.

=== Future Goals ===
Time allowing from my primary focus, perhaps engage in development testing. As I learn more of ubuntu's support structures, my ambitions are subject to change. I offer my abilities to foster Ubuntu in any manner I can. Though now-a-days I run on old hardware and have become restricted to Xubuntu for performance reasons, I am not as active in development as I once was. As I no longer work with other DEs my support efforts for them decrease and thus I can allow a shift in focus to a broader contribution to my community.

=== Comments ===
'''Note:''' This section is for people who aren't Ubuntu members to cheer or comments that aren't testimonials from existing members.
I welcome any criticism as that too only makes me better. Constructive criticism is more welcome.

==== Buntu Bunny ====
I have gotten to know Bashing-om through the Ubuntu Forums. I am always heartened by his positive and helpful attitude. He's hung in there with me when I've struggled to resolve problems, and I have benefited from his help more than once.  He has been a great asset to New``Docs, particularly during its formation stages. He helped make it what it is today.

==== BlinkinCat ====
I have observed how that Bashing-om if he does not come up with an immediate answer leaves no stone unturned in his quest to search out possible solutions to user's questions in the forums. His knowledge is vast and his sense of humour is very appealing. He has contributed subtantially to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NewDocs|NewDocs]]</nowiki> and his regular words of encouragement are very much appreciated. 

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' This section is for existing Ubuntu members to leave testimonials.  People who aren't Ubuntu members can leave a comment above in favor of the application.

If you know me and have something nice to say - or other wise -, please leave a comment here. 

==== sandyd ====
Bashing-om is a constant and significant contributor to Ubuntu Forums, and his insights and advice have helped many users with the problems that they have been having.

==== QIII ====
Bashing-om has shown a consistently great attitude, remarkable patience and an endless willingness to go the extra mile to help others solve problems.  It's a pleasure to watch him work -- and be inspired. 

==== Caboose885 ====
Bashing-om works with me on the unanswered posts (UA) team and he is always eager to help out wherever needed. His willingness to help out makes him an invaluable member to the team.

==== Pavlushka ====
I am a help receiver of his on #ubuntu irc channel and instantly fallen for his ability to deal multiple queries with precision and the rich way of dealing with peoples. I learned a lot from him on the sly and he is also a source of inspiration.

==== Wildmanne39 ====

I have known and worked with bashing-om for the last fourteen years on the forum where I have seen him work tirelessly for hours every day helping users of Ubuntu fix whatever issue they might have, I have never seen him treat anyone bad or lose patience with a user on the Ubuntu Forums, I have had the privilege of working with bashing-om on the Ubuntu News Letter and then later as an Ubuntu Board Member and he is always knowledgeable kind and patient with everyone.

----
=== SponsorShip ===
'''My note:''' For those who are willing to offer their sponsorship -

To the adherence of the high standards, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/Board ; I do make petition for admission to an inner circle of ubuntu. I seek your endorsement for my application.

==== bapoumba ====
Bashing-om is a valuable member on the forums, always trying to help members and never giving up even in the most difficult situations. Each of their post ends with a little creative personal note that always brighten my day. I support their application for membership without reserve.

==== cariboo907 ====
Bashing-om is a well respected member of the Forum community.He strives to be helpful in all his posts, and I look forward to the his posts in all the threads he participates in. I recommend his membership application.

==== oldos2er ====
Bashing-om's posts on ubuntuforums.org are without exception courteous and helpful. His willingness to go the extra mile (sometimes for days) to find solutions for problems is a valuable asset to the forums. Membership should be given to reward and encourage Bashing-om's spirit of "ubuntu."

=== Miles Sharpe ===

I have worked with Bashing-om since he joined the membership board and find him very kind and compassionate.
Always ready to step in and help those that are struggling. In meetings with new applicants he always treats them with respect and encourages them. Never a harsh word. Truly a good asset for the membership board that leads by example. It will be a sad day to lose him from the board.
----

=== Application Approved ===
* Approval date: Tue 21Jan2014
* Membership Application: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2200336
* Newest Ubuntu Member! : http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2200894
* Congratulations       : http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2200893

Concluding remarks:
I had not expected this feeling of 7 kinds of rosy. Wonder and amazement, the vote was unanimous - reported from two sources - I had no idea I was held in such high esteem.

Now with an adjusted perspective, I look forward to what the future may entail.

=== Application for ubuntu-membership-boards ===
In that "what the future may entail" I have accomplished many things. I have solidified my standing with my peers and my advise in situations is always highly regarded. At this time I step up to this new challenge and if accepted will serve with the same commitment to the furtherance of Ubuntu.

Elected: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/2020-December/002944.html - December 1, 2020

=== 3rd Term Application for ubuntu-membership-boards ===

Ubuntu has served me well in so many respects - in return I will continue to serve Ubuntu well.
