{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Dustin Krysak (bashfulrobot) ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Location'''
| 
| Vancouver, Canada
|-
| ''' Time Zone'''
| 
| Pacific Standard Time (UTC-0800)
|-
| ''' Launchpad Page'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bashfulrobot|~bashfulrobot]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:dustin@bashfulrobot.com|dustin at bashfulrobot.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Ubuntu Budgie Email Address'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[mailto:dustin@ubuntubudgie.org|dustin at ubuntubudgie.org]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' IRC Nick'''
| 
| bashfulrobot on freenode
|-
| ''' Twitter'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/Bashfulrobot|@bashfulrobot]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Mastodon'''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://mastodon.cloud/@bashfulrobot|@bashfulrobot]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' !GitHub '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/bashfulrobot|bashfulrobot]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''' Telegram '''
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://telegram.me/bashfulrobot|@bashfulrobot]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About me ===

Historically an open source consumer (Enterprise operations), now also an open source contributor. An active Ubuntu Budgie team member since December of 2016 assisting with infrastructure, community, packaging, etc. Also a co-host of the Vancouver Linux Desktop User Group.

=== Positions in the Ubuntu Community: ===

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie <nowiki>[[https://ubuntubudgie.org/team|Team]]</nowiki> Member

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie Release Manager -<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseTaskSignup|release tasks]]</nowiki>.
=== Contributions ===

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie Infrastructure

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie Packaging

 {*} Interaction on behalf of Ubuntu Budgie with Ubuntu (upstream) such as LTS applications, etc.

 {*} Community Engagement VIA <nowiki>[[https://www.meetup.com/Vancouver-Linux-Desktop-Meetup|meetups (co-host)]]</nowiki>,
 <nowiki>[[https://www.meetup.com/Vancouver-Linux-Desktop-Meetup/events/240043242/|presentations]]</nowiki>, blogging, podcasts such as <nowiki>[[https://destinationlinux.org/|Destination Linux]]</nowiki> episodes 25/44,
 <nowiki>[[https://advancetechmedia.org/episode-003-dustin-krysak|Advancetech]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.jupiterbroadcasting.com/121912/neo-hobo-user-error-43/|Jupiter Broadcasting User Error]]</nowiki>, fests ( <nowiki>[[https://ubuntubudgie.org/blog/2017/05/10/linux-fest-northwest-2017|LFNW]]</nowiki> )

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie Community Support via IRC / Gitter

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie Sponsorship Management

 {*} Cross Project Engagement

 {*} Snapcrafters ( Packaging and <nowiki>[[https://forum.snapcraft.io|forums]]</nowiki> )

 {*} Ubuntu Budgie Code

 {*} Release <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtfulAardvark/ReleaseTaskSignup|Management]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

 {*} Add Github/CI for the Ubuntu Budgie project builds, document and offer to any other flavours that may be interested.

 {*} Planning a beginners deb packaging introduction, followed by beginners snap packaging introduction. Highlight the differences and where things are moving. To be presented at the Linux Desktop Users Group (Future)

 {*} Increase my coding capabilities beyond automation to be able to contribute back where applicable.

 {*} Build additional tool sets as needed for Ubuntu Budgie (OSS).

 {*} Become more involved with packaging by learning the Debian process as well.

 {*} Join the regional Ubuntu teams such as <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu Canada]]</nowiki> and/or the more localised <nowiki>[[https :--wiki.ubuntu.com-CanadianTeam-Vancouver|Ubuntu Vancouver]]</nowiki>

 {*} Attending Linux Fest 2018, and working with other Ubuntu members.

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

{*} Dustin is key active Ubuntu Budgie team-member for the past year.  He has been instrumental in developing the backend website infrastructure that Ubuntu Budgie depends on.
He uses his knowledge of all things Ubuntu on our key social media outlets to help out the Ubuntu Budgie community.

Always willing to learn new things especially to help not just Ubuntu Budgie, but also other projects and upstream with the Budgie Desktop developers and their GitHub issue tracker.
Dustin has taken an active role with the 17.10 alpha working with Lubuntu to organise and run with the Alpha 2 release schedule.

Dustin has been keen to get involved with debian packaging and has packaged several software packages for Ubuntu Budgie.  He as also been working with the Snap developers and is actively bringing this key knowledge to Ubuntu Budgie to help us utilise and transform what we do in the new exciting snap packaging methods.

Dustin in my opinion demonstrates clearly all things that would make him an excellent Ubuntu member.  As project lead of Ubuntu Budgie I'm more than happy to endorse Dustin's application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fossfreedom]]</nowiki> 
{*} I spent a couple of hours talking with Dustin at Linux Fest North West 2017 where he explained he wanted to transition from a consumer of Linux and open source to a contributor. He has certainly made that change and is now an active member of the Ubuntu Budgie team, a Snapcrafter and contributor to a number of Linux related podcasts and discussion channels where he generously shares his knowledge and experience. Dustin is a great ambassador for Ubuntu and would make a fine addition to the ranks of Ubuntu Members. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:flexiondotorg]]</nowiki> 
{*} Dustin will be a very fine addition as an Ubuntu Member. He's super active in the community, very helpful and nice on his interactions with the others. I am close to his work packaging snaps, and I quickly saw how his technical knowledge is helping to improve Ubuntu. Also, Ubuntu Budgie has quickly grown. I'm impressed by the work of the team, where Dustin shines taking many roles and getting a lot of work done. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:elopio]]</nowiki> 
{*} Dustin is a great member of the community; I collaborate with him on a regular basis on several projects, most notably with volunteer release management of milestones. I met him in person at Linux``Fest North``West 2017, and he is very driven to make Ubuntu Budgie succeed, by taking on new projects, pursuing new ideas, and collaborating with others in the process. Honestly, with the amount of contributions Dustin has made, he should have applied to be an Ubuntu Member months ago. I fully endorse his application, and I know that Dustin will be a great addition to the Ubuntu family. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tsimonq2]]</nowiki> 