{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Test plan for component''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlans/ofono
* '''Component Checklist''': https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/Checklists/Common
* '''Trunk URL''': https://github.com/rilmodem/ofono
* '''Ubuntu Package URL (LP)''': http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ofono
 
----

== Basic Calling Tests ==

=== 1. Outgoing Call - Unanswered ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that we can dial a number, that a call object is created with a status of alerting, and that we can drop the call before it is accepted by the called party.

==== Steps: ====

* dial-number [modem] <number>
* list-calls
  Check that call '''<modem>/voicecall01''' appears, with state either '''dialing''' or '''alerting''' and that LineIdentification equals <number>. Check that when on dialing state the called phone does not ring yet, and that when the state is alerting the called phone rings.
* hangup-call <modem>/voicecall01
  Verify that the called phone stops ringing.
* list-calls
  Verify that no call exists.

=== 2. Outgoing Call - Dropped ===

==== Purpose ====
This test case verifies that an outgoing call can be initiated, that a call object is created with a status of alerting, and that we detect if the other party does not accept the call.

==== Steps: ====

* dial-number [modem] <number>
* list-calls
  Check that call '''<modem>/voicecall01''' appears, with state either '''dialing''' or '''alerting''' and that LineIdentification equals <number>. Check that when on dialing state the called phone does not ring yet, and that when the state is alerting the called phone rings.
* Hangup the call in the called party.
* list-calls
  Verify that no call exists.

''The steps for this test don't really match the described purpose which indicates that the other party does not accept the call.  The steps to reproduce state the the called party is hangs up the call.  I'll also note that actually declining a call without answering first only works if voicemail call forwarding is not configured. - awe''

=== Other ===

* Outgoing calls
** with CallerID disabled ( this usually can be done by adding ''*67'' to the beginning of the called phone number )
* Incoming calls
** with CallerID disabled
* Remote Hangup ( these usually take 25-30s to end the call )
