{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ahamed Bauani’s Summary ==

Ahamed Bauani Worked on:
TCP/IP (Ipv4 and IPv6), OSI Layers, CIDR, IPSec, GRE, VPN, NAT/PAT, ACL, Route Maps, RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, PPP, PPTP, L2TP, WLAN, VLAN, STP, RSTP, SSH, SSL, AAA, RADIUS, TACACS+, TFTP, SNMP, Syslog  and Lots More...

=== Contribution to Ubuntu ===

'''Ahamed Bauani is maintainer of One and Only Ubuntu Mirror.'''
Mirror URL: <nowiki>[[http://mirrors.bd-servers.net/ubuntu/ | http://mirrors.bd-servers.net/ubuntu/]]</nowiki>

Currently this Mirror Only Contain CD/DVD Image of Official Release of Ubuntu. The Archive Version is on process. 

===== Specialty =====
  
He is ""Expert on Complex & Customize Internet Networking from Bangladesh"". And he is Also <nowiki>[[http://ipv6.he.net/certification/scoresheet.php?pass_name=bauani | Certified IPv6 Network Professional by Hurricane Electric of USA]]</nowiki>. Currently He is Freelance ICT Consultant of different top level organization / group of company like <nowiki>[[http://www.transcombd.com | Transcom Group]]</nowiki>, nTV, Radio ABC etc. You can hire him for to fix your Complex Internet Related Problem! His blog address is <nowiki>[[http://blog.bauani.org/ | http://blog.bauani.org/ ]]</nowiki> and Website <nowiki>[[ http:--www.bauani.org- | http:--www.bauani.org- ]]</nowiki> Though it is a little bit old.  
