{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-Meetings-20090714|Ubuntu Beginners Team Meeting 2009-07-14]]</nowiki>
** Agree that the council should discuss ways to open up the -council IRC channel and get rid of the +mz channel modes
** Announcement about new project to help create a "pipeline" from the Beginners Team to the wider Ubuntu community
** Due to ajmorris disappearing, Silver_Fox_ stepped up to help co-lead the IRC Focus Group
** Announce the Young New Users Focus Group <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-FocusGroups-YNU-Conduct|Conduct Wiki Page]]</nowiki>
** Agree that having some users accidentally coming to the main team channel instead of the support channel is fine, and that there is no need to rename/move the main channel
** <nowiki>[[DallasWiebelhaus|Dallas Wiebelhaus]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has been a great participant in team activities, and definitely deserving of membership.
** <nowiki>[[leoquant]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He is already a very knowledgeable Ubuntu member, and will make a great addition to the team.
* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-Meetings-20090728|Ubuntu Beginners Team Meeting 2009-07-28]]</nowiki>
** Point out <nowiki>[[FoldingAtHome|Folding@Home]]</nowiki> and the #ubuntu-folding channel
** Agree to move mailing lists from lists.launchpad.net to lists.ubuntu.com
** Discuss future of the <nowiki>[[UnansweredPostsTeam|Unanswered Posts Team]]</nowiki> and whether it should remain a separate team or be merged into the Beginners Team. The team was neutral in regards to merging the two teams.
** The Wiki Focus Group's Summer of Documentation has seen some nice progress. There is still room for new users to help out if they wish.
** The IRC Focus Group has seen a lot more activity over the past few days
** The <nowiki>[[Learning|Ubuntu Community Learning Project]]</nowiki> is slowly forming, and is a separate team than the Education Focus Group
** The Council will work with the Development Focus Group in order to help accommodate their desire to allow non-Beginners Team members to join the Focus Group.
** <nowiki>[[starcraft.man]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has been helping beginners for a long time, and has recently joined the Wiki Focus Group. We are glad to welcome him to the team.
