{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| Summer of Documentation, 2009
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| Other doc team activities
|}

=== Log ===
{{{#!IRC
[22:02] <Rocket2DMn> Ok guys, let's get started with the BT Wiki FG meeting
[22:02] <Rocket2DMn> just FYI guys, the doc-team had a meeting last weekend
[22:02] <Rocket2DMn> You can find the summary and log here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/DocTeam
[22:02] <Rocket2DMn> Before we start with the wiki stuff - is anybody also interested in working on system docs?
[22:03] <starcraftman> not really, I'm pretty happy sticking to wiki atm. Maybe further down the road.
[22:03] <Rocket2DMn> ok then, let me know in the future if you are
[22:03] <Rocket2DMn> Moving on - Summer of Documentation
[22:04] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: will do.
[22:04] <Rocket2DMn> Thank you all for your hard work this summer, a lot of great stuff has been done
[22:04] <Rocket2DMn> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Development
[22:04] <Silver_Fox_> thank you too Rocket2DMn
[22:04] <Rocket2DMn> Of course, you can work on any page on the wiki, even if it isn't listed there
[22:05] <Rocket2DMn> also, you can add any pages to the Available section if you run across a page you think BT members might be able to handle
[22:05] <starcraftman> Yup, congrats to all, think we covered quite a bit of articles I'll get some more in before I go back in mid September.
[22:05] <Silver_Fox_> i am still beavering away at the list :)
[22:05] <Rocket2DMn> Yeah, we'll wind down the SoD in September
[22:05] <Rocket2DMn> perhaps around Sept 22, that is the weekend at the end of the Summer season
[22:06] <Rocket2DMn> Although, I fully expect some drop off around Labor day since people will be going back to school
[22:06] <Silver_Fox_> why do we want to wind it down?
[22:06] <Rocket2DMn> I recognize that this is all volunteer time, so don't stress yourselves
[22:06] <Rocket2DMn> well Silver_Fox_ , we can't maintain the Summer of Documentation all year round :)
[22:06] <starcraftman> Silver_Fox_: summer holiday doesn't last forever, even if some wish it did ^^
[22:07] <Rocket2DMn> that's not to say you can't do work, it's just not part of this little project
[22:07] <Silver_Fox_> okay,  just clarifying :)
[22:07] <Rocket2DMn> we do maintain the community docs all year round :)
[22:07] <Rocket2DMn> the SoD is really just a way to get people from the BT involved in the wiki
[22:07] <Silver_Fox_> hey,  might even finish the glossary,  haha
[22:08] <Rocket2DMn> Does anybody have any questions?
[22:09] <Silver_Fox_> i think that is a no
[22:09] <Rocket2DMn> Ok then, please feel free to interrupt me at any time, but I'll move on
[22:09] <starcraftman> Not really, I think someone wanted to know what to do with orphans....
[22:09] <Rocket2DMn> A page that I've thrown at a couple of you guys is exactly what starcraftman is now mentioning
[22:09] <Rocket2DMn> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OrphanedPages
[22:09] <Rocket2DMn> those are pages that aren't linked from anywhere else on the community docs
[22:09] <Rocket2DMn> a lot of the pages listed there are redirects, so you can ignore those
[22:10] <Silver_Fox_> i have a question regarding that page
[22:10] <Rocket2DMn> However, many of those pages need homes, and pages that arent linked from elsewhere arent very useful unless somebody grabs it from google
[22:10] <Rocket2DMn> go for it Silver_Fox_
[22:10] <Silver_Fox_> is it generated by a bot or human? reason i ask is i can see where some of the links could be referenced
[22:10] <Rocket2DMn> Silver_Fox_, it should be autogenerated
[22:11] <Silver_Fox_> okay,  thank you Rocket2DMn.
[22:11] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman asked me to give an example
[22:11] <starcraftman> I did? Don't think so ><.
[22:11] <Rocket2DMn> no, maybe it was somebody else
[22:12] <Rocket2DMn> sorry
[22:12] <Rocket2DMn> anyway, let's take https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WineServer
[22:12] <starcraftman> sure.
[22:12] <Rocket2DMn> if you look at the page history, you will notice that it was only created a year ago, which meant somebody started an independent page
[22:12] <Rocket2DMn> the main Wine page is here - https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wine
[22:13] <Rocket2DMn> So what do we do with the WineServer page?
[22:13] <Rocket2DMn> why dont' you guys tell me what you would do :)
[22:13] <starcraftman> Link from WINE > WineServer.
[22:14] <starcraftman> The exact nature of how ya link it about though depends on the pages, the WINE page a bit of a mess as it is.
[22:14] <Silver_Fox_> check content of wine page first to see if wine server covered
[22:14] <Rocket2DMn> Yes, there could be content on the WineServer page that isn't covered on the Wine page
[22:15] <Rocket2DMn> I'm not a Wine expert, but it should be noted that Wine and WineServer are two components of what is generally just viewed as Wine
[22:15] <Rocket2DMn> perhaps there is content that should specifically remain on the WineServer page, or be moved there from the Wine page
[22:16] <Rocket2DMn> if somebody were to take on that page, they would need to do some research or already know more about wine than i do :)
[22:16] <starcraftman> Wineserver page definitely needs to be updated if it's to be linked, last tested on 606 it says.
[22:17] <starcraftman> I'm more of a VM user tbh.
[22:17] <Rocket2DMn> yeah starcraftman , after cleanup the links can be added
[22:17] <starcraftman> Though I have been trying desperately hard to get WINE to make my folding GPU windows client work, no luck though.
[22:17] <Rocket2DMn> lol
[22:18] <Rocket2DMn> well, there are other pages like this on the wiki that show us interesting things about what's happening with the wiki
[22:18] <Rocket2DMn> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PageHits
[22:18] <Rocket2DMn> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecentChanges
[22:18] <Rocket2DMn> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TitleIndex
[22:18] <starcraftman> hehe, I'm listed a lot on the recent changes one. :)
[22:18] <Rocket2DMn> There are a couple more i believe, but i dont recall them off the top of my head
[22:19] <Rocket2DMn> Any questions?
[22:19] <Rocket2DMn> ok then
[22:19] <starcraftman> nope, simple enough concept, already linked about 20 or so orphans I thought were worth saving.
[22:20] <Rocket2DMn> I'm not sure if you are already doing this, but it would be good if you all subscribed to pages that you did serious work on
[22:20] <Rocket2DMn> then you can act as a maintainer of the page, and see what changes other people make later
[22:20] <Silver_Fox_> good idea
[22:21] <starcraftman> Yup, I do that for the ones I rewrite like my backup and the ISO pages.
[22:21] <Silver_Fox_> are only 3 people here?
[22:21] <Rocket2DMn> I also want to note that if you work on pages that are important, popular, or probably/might have experts in the subject, you should seek those people out if appropriate to ask for advice about a page, or to let them know that you are working on it
[22:21] <dsas> Silver_Fox_: no
[22:22] <starcraftman> Silver_Fox_: Only 3 wiki fg members, yup, I think so. Rest are regular doc members.
[22:22] <Rocket2DMn> remember that this is a community effort and we are working with others to keep documentation up to date
[22:22] <Rocket2DMn> it is respectful and helpful to talk to others - you can always check to see who has contributed to pages by looking at the Page History
[22:23] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: Right, can always send a post to doc mail list to ask..
[22:23] <Rocket2DMn> if you have questions or concerns, you can always take them to the doc-team mailing list, or other lists if appropriate
[22:23] <Rocket2DMn> exactly starcraftman
[22:23] <pleia2> some pages also instruct you not to edit them, so it's good to read them thoroughly too
[22:24] <Rocket2DMn> yes, those are ones that should be taken to mailing lists.  there are only a handful of pages like that though, and are often ones linked from the main ubuntu site or are maintained by project owners
[22:25] <pleia2> yeah, I'm thinking council ones mostly (irc council's irc rules, loco council's loco team list)
[22:25] <Rocket2DMn> those are mostly on wiki.ubuntu.com, which we don't typically deal with
[22:25] <pleia2> ah, ok
[22:26] <Rocket2DMn> does anybody have any questions at all?  I am basically out of material.  I like to keep these meetings short
[22:27] <starcraftman> not really, I usually ask ya a question in the bt channel when it comes to me.
[22:27] <Silver_Fox_> I don't have any questions
[22:27] <Rocket2DMn> okie dokie then.  Of course you can always ask questions later
[22:28] <Rocket2DMn> Thanks for attending, meeting adjourned!
}}}
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
