{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox | Silver_Fox]]</nowiki>
| Change main meeting time by 2 hours
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====
'''Change main meeting time by 2 hours'''

Further from recent talks regarding Eurasian meetings Joeb454,  Bodhi Zazen and myself believe that a compromise can be made and have the main meeting time set back by approximately 2 hours. 

We have arrived at the 2 hour figure by examining closely Nhandlers doodle poll [1].  From the poll it has become evident that the majority of the Eurasians could attend the meeting if it were set slightly earlier.  We feel that it is not sensible for a second meeting to occur only 2 hours earlier than the main meeting.  Doing so would alleviate  the organization problems that this would cause.

[1]  http://www.doodle.com/vhr727fq8wkvkyai

=== Log ===

<pre>
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> #startmeeting
[00:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:02. The chair is bodhi_zazen.
[00:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> Not a lot on the agenda =)
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox is not here
[00:03] <Joeb454> I'll take that one up :)
[00:03] <paultag> 'lo all
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Meeting time
[00:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Meeting time
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> OK Joeb454 , thanks
[00:04] <Joeb454> it's not like I'll be put on the spot or anything....right?
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454: do you want to discuss this now ?
[00:05] <Joeb454> do we have anything else to discuss?
[00:05]  * jamesrfla raises hand
[00:05] <Joeb454> if so do 1 first so I can read up on the subjet
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> yes
[00:06] <jamesrfla> Does it have to be about meeting time or anything
[00:06] <Joeb454> I seem to have somehow unsubscribed myself from the mailing list, so I'm just reading the emails silver_fox_ sent to me
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> OK
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> basically, in a nut shell, there has been an interest in establishing alternate meeting times
[00:07] <paultag> o/
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> after polling all interested parties, it turns out the most people can make the meeting if it is moved up 2 hours (2 hours earlier)
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> there was a discussion on the mailing list =)
[00:07] <Joeb454> ok finished :)
[00:08] <Joeb454> well, finished what I have, not sure if that's all of it, but i get the jist of it
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> So , for a 2 hour time difference, I think we can try alternating the meeting times and see how attendance goes.
[00:08] <Joeb454> I think alternating would work very well actually
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> Does anyone wish to add to the discussion now ?
[00:09] <Joeb454> do we know if a 1 hour shift would work?
[00:09] <jamesrfla> Moving the meeting time from 7PM Eastern time to 5PM eastern time is fine with me
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> How would people feel about moving the meeting time by 2 hours ?
[00:09] <duanedesign> i think the alternating is a good solution.
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> 1 hour works better for me
[00:09] <paultag> It works fine over here :)
[00:09] <Rocket2DMn> Just a quick note, I think that those of us who can't IRC from work, moving up the meeting makes it a tad more difficult to make it back for meetings, but not necessarily enough to make it out of the question
[00:09] <swoody> either is fine by me
[00:09] <starcraftman> I'd just like to pipe in that I actually have class 2 hours earlier then transit, only just make it to late meetings. I may or may not make meetings if its moved up.
[00:09] <paultag> starcraftman: me too, but it's manageable
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> I suggest we alternate meeting times
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> some will make some meetings , others other meetings
[00:10] <starcraftman> I could prolly stick around on campus a bit, but makes getting home a bit of hassle. I'm just one guy though.
[00:10] <duanedesign> Rocket2DMn: +1
[00:10] <Rocket2DMn> Alternate would be best, then we only need to stress the schedule once a month instead of every 2 weeks
[00:10] <paultag> starcraftman: I do the same thing
[00:11] <duanedesign> Rocket2DMn: +1 again
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> If attendance drops at one of the two times we can re-visit the issue
[00:11] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: have ya considered some sort of absentee ballot thing for important votes at meetings some people can't make? Just a thought. The topics would have to have clear yes and no propositions though and not be ambigous
[00:11] <Joeb454> bodhi_zazen: that sounds good to me
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> people can make comments either on the mailing list or on the wiki meeting page
[00:11] <Joeb454> maybe we should try the 2 hour shift initially, then at that meeting, ask about a 1 hour move?
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> so meeting times do not necessarily exclude people from discussion
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> +1 starcraftman
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> Any additional comments , otherwise shall we vote ?
[00:12] <Joeb454> o/
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> yes Joeb454
[00:13] <Joeb454> Can we try a 2 hour change initially (so 2200 UTC I believe), then if that works well, keep it, if not propose a 1 hour difference instead
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] Alternate meeting times ?
[00:13] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Alternate meeting times ?.
[00:13] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:13] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:13] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:13] <swoody> +1
[00:13] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:13] <paultag> +1
[00:13] <Joeb454> other than that - +1 for alternating the meeting times
[00:13] <jamesrfla> +1
[00:13] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:13] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:13] <Joeb454> +1
[00:13] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:13] <duanedesign> +1
[00:13] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> Any additional votes ?
[00:14] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:14] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:14] <starcraftman> +1
[00:14] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:14] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 8
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> Thank you all =)
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> I have two additional items
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> paultag: did you have a topic or item for discussion ?
[00:15] <paultag> Nope
[00:15] <paultag> nothing but FG stuff
[00:15] <paultag> but that can wait for FG talk
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> kk
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]FG Leadership
[00:16] <MootBot> New Topic: FG Leadership
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> We have discussed this in the past, but I am not sure if we came to a consensus
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> what do we wish to do with the Leadership positions ?
[00:16] <paultag> o/
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> See the meeting agenda for previous discussion
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:17] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:17] <paultag> o/
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> go paul =)
[00:17] <paultag> So: Here is the background
[00:18] <paultag> a while back I pushed to have "elections". There was little to no motivation
[00:18] <paultag> I think it can be self governed right now, and if it comes down to it, bodhi can intervene, step down with grace, ya know.
[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> so it seems paultag
[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> some of the people on the list seem less active =)
[00:19] <Joeb454> talking about the mailing list?
[00:19] <paultag> Being an FG lead, of course, I am a bit biased ( to maintain leadership )
[00:19] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454: there was some discussion on the mailing list
[00:19] <Joeb454> bodhi_zazen: if it was recent, apparently I was unsubscribed (still confused by that)
[00:19]  * starcraftman goes and looks at mail list.
[00:19] <Joeb454> I always read it, but I don't often respond, I'll admit
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> If there is no strong preference I will review the current leads and replace the vacant positions
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> if you all prefer we can have elections, but I am not sure of the interest
[00:20] <duanedesign> if someone was interested what would be protocol
[00:20] <Joeb454> I do believe I stepped down from all FG leadership roles
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454: I understand, I get a TON of Ubuntu mailings
[00:21] <Joeb454> unless we're counting the council as an FG :P
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> Shall we vote ?
[00:21] <starcraftman> I personally, don't see a need for voting. Not like we are an engineering society. My 2 cents.
[00:21] <Rocket2DMn> or are we....
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE]bodhi.zazen to manage leadership positions ?
[00:21] <MootBot> Please vote on: bodhi.zazen to manage leadership positions ?.
[00:21] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:21] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:21] <paultag> +1
[00:21] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:22] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:22] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> 0
[00:22] <Joeb454> 0
[00:22] <Joeb454> +0
[00:22] <MootBot> Abstention received from Joeb454. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:22] <swoody> +1
[00:22] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:22] <jamesrfla> +0
[00:22] <MootBot> Abstention received from jamesrfla. 3 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:22] <Joeb454> MootBot always confuses me with +0's
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> +0
[00:22] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 3 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> lol
[00:22] <starcraftman> Is -1 against voting?
[00:22] <swoody> starcraftman, +0 is against voting, -1 is against topic
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen>  -1 is saying we need to elect leadership
[00:23] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: k
[00:23] <starcraftman> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 4 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> any additional votes
[00:23] <duanedesign> +0
[00:23] <MootBot> Abstention received from duanedesign. 4 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:23] <MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 4 abstained. Total: 4
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> OK as there is no clear consensus either way, for now I will review leadership roles
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> if anyone is either interested or disinterested (want to step up or down) please let me know
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> I will ask from time to time in the channel as well
[00:24] <Rocket2DMn> sounds fair
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> My other topic is new members
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]Membership process
[00:25] <MootBot> New Topic: Membership process
[00:25] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: o/
[00:25] <paultag> mathay: poke
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> How is the new system working ?
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> yes paultag ?
[00:25] <mathay> paultag: I am here.
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> I'm concerned that we havent voted on anybody for a couple of meetings
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:25] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: oh shucks. Nevermind, I misread that
[00:25] <swoody> +1 Rocket2DMn
[00:25] <paultag> Rocket2DMn: I was putting up mathay for this meeting
[00:25] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: mathay is going up this meeting
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> With so many unvoiced people around, how do we not have new members up for vote at every meeting?
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> is the membership process broken ?
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> paultag, cool
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> I hope there are others ready for this meeting too
[00:26] <paultag> Rocket2DMn: yeah actually
[00:26] <paultag> Rocket2DMn: I think pedro3005
[00:26] <pedro3005> hi
[00:26] <Silver_Fox_> I hear fg leaders are being reviewed  thought i should drop by
[00:27] <Vantrax> lol
[00:27]  * Vantrax just lurks unless he has an opinion
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> LOL Silver_Fox_
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> you are too late, I usurped the power
[00:28] <Silver_Fox_> Heh
[00:28] <Silver_Fox_> :)
[00:28] <Rocket2DMn> long live the king!
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> OK, well please, lets revamp the membership process
[00:28] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: if I may
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> bring lurkers into the fold =)
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> sure paultag
[00:29] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: I think we should put effort into moving idlers into the team, if they are active. Also look to recruiting from the forums, and wait out a revamp.
[00:29] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: as you know, our membership cycles up and down with the release of the new Ubuntu
[00:30] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: shall we wait a few weeks, and re evaluate after 09.10 ?
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> sure, I think some of the lurkers lood promising and I have given a few quizzes even
[00:30] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: we should look to activity as well
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> Would be ideal to recruit just prior to the release, but I understand what you are sayig
[00:31] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: oh +1. But the releases always bring people over from other distros etc
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> Shall we move to new members now then ?
[00:31] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: +1
[00:31] <swoody> +1
[00:31] <duanedesign> we added  a few people since the last meeting. A couple were 'window watchers' and qute frankly we havent seen much of them since
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> Who is up for membership ?
[00:31] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: mathay
[00:31] <Vantrax> I think we need better way to engage people and get them involved on an ongoing basiss
[00:32] <paultag> Vantrax: Silver_Fox_ and I are working on it
[00:32] <pedro3005> bodhi_zazen, i am i guess, but nhasian isn't around
[00:32] <paultag> Vantrax: we can chat about it later.
[00:32] <Silver_Fox_> Vantrax, Its going to be huge when we are done
[00:32] <Silver_Fox_> Can I put my padawan up?
[00:32] <duanedesign> bodhi_zazen: PabloRubianes
[00:32] <paultag> Silver_Fox_: if he/she is here, yeah
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> +1 Vantrax
[00:33] <Silver_Fox_> well,   no diegoTC is not here on the basis that I was not expecting to be either.
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> I think really it takes people like starcraftman to be engaged in the channel =)
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> thank you to starcraftman , Silver_Fox_ , and many others who have been active
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> OK
[00:33] <swoody> +1 bodhi_zazen
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] pedro3005 for membership
[00:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  pedro3005 for membership
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> anyone wish to speak on pedro3005 's behalf ?
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> pedro3005: any comments ?
[00:34] <Vantrax> did he get the swallow question right?
[00:35] <duanedesign> I think pedro3005 does a good job in help
[00:35] <pedro3005> bodhi_zazen, hm..... i don't really have anything to say lol :(
[00:35] <starcraftman> sorry, I'm feeling low energy atm bodhi_zazen, why I'm so quiet. Still working on my proposal, if paultag also working on revamping membership we should talk some time.  Will get to it this weekend I'm hopeful, done lots of my uni work in advance. (oh and yes, my typing slowed)
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> Tell us about yourself pedro3005
[00:35] <pedro3005> bodhi_zazen, except i've been visiting this channel for quite a long time
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> how long have you used Ubuntu ?
[00:35]  * Vantrax is starting to think we should adpot the same system as ubuntu membership apps for bt ones (in regard to the wiki page and introduction)
[00:36] <swoody> +1 duanedesign While nhasian might not be here, I feel pedro3005 has been active enough that we've all gotten a good feel for what kind of person he is :)
[00:36] <jamesrfla> +1 Vantrax
[00:36] <duanedesign> he reviews logs and i think he shows a genuine interest
[00:36] <Joeb454> Vantrax: I think that's been discussed before
[00:36] <pedro3005> bodhi_zazen, about a year, although I stopped a bit in the middle
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> Vantrax: we have for the most part
[00:36] <pedro3005> duanedesign, who reviews logs?
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> Any other comments b4 we vote ?
[00:36] <duanedesign> pedro3005: you, well scrollback might be a better term
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> pedro3005, Rio is a beautiful city, I was there a little over a year ago
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] pedro3005 for membership
[00:37] <MootBot> Please vote on:  pedro3005 for membership.
[00:37] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:37] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:37] <duanedesign> +1
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:37] <paultag> +1
[00:37] <pedro3005> Rocket2DMn, cool
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:37] <Vantrax> +1
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:37] <swoody> +1
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:37] <Joeb454> +1
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:37] <jamesrfla> +0
[00:37] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:37] <MootBot> Abstention received from jamesrfla. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:37] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 8 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> Any additional votes ?
[00:37] <Vantrax> so when hes called we should see Hi, my name is <Name>, my wiki page is <wiki> and a little summary of involvement/contributions. Cuts down time and gives people links
[00:38] <pedro3005> you guys want my wiki page? though it's quite simple
[00:38] <paultag> pedro3005: it's ok
[00:38] <jamesrfla> +1 Vantrax
[00:38] <paultag> we voted already
[00:38] <paultag> Vantrax: this is talk for later
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:38] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 8
[00:38] <swoody> welcome aboard pedro3005 :D
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome pedro3005
[00:39] <pedro3005> yay :D
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> anyone else up for membership ?
[00:39] <duanedesign> PabloRubianes:
[00:39] <paultag> bodhi_zazen: mathay
[00:40] <Vantrax> paultag: yeah, your right.. will confuse people
[00:41] <mathay> Hello everyone. My name is Andrew. My wikipage is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mathay
[00:42] <mathay> I've been hanging around the #ubuntu-beginners channel for awhile now.
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]mathay for membership
[00:42] <MootBot> New Topic: mathay for membership
[00:42] <mathay> paultag is my master.. although that makes me feel a little subservient, I feel great. ;)
[00:42] <paultag> o/
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> go paultag
[00:43] <paultag> I'm a bit biased, I know mathay IRL, and am his master
[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> pedro3005: contact me so I may add you to the LP team
[00:43] <Rocket2DMn> what is this RL you speak of?!
[00:43] <paultag> but I really thing that he is quite a good fit for membership. I support him 100%
[00:43] <paultag> Rocket2DMn: :P
[00:43] <paultag> </plug>
[00:44] <Rocket2DMn> mathay, do you contribute to Ubuntu in areas other than the forums?
[00:44] <pedro3005> bodhi_zazen, when?
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> pedro3005: what is your LP user name
[00:44] <mathay> Rocket2DMn: I've helped out in the #ubuntu-beginners-help area in the past, I am a part of the Ohio-Loco team as well.
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> any other comments on mathay ?
[00:45] <pedro3005> bodhi_zazen, https://launchpad.net/~pedro3005
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> got you pedro3005
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> shall we vote on mathay ?
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] mathay for membership ??!?
[00:46] <MootBot> Please vote on:  mathay for membership ??!?.
[00:46] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:46] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:46] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:46] <paultag> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:46] <swoody> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:46] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:46] <jamesrfla> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:46] <duanedesign> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:46] <starcraftman> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:47] <pedro3005> should i vote?
[00:47] <paultag> pedro3005: you may :)
[00:47] <pedro3005> +1
[00:47] <MootBot> +1 received from pedro3005. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> any other votes ?
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> mathay: do you have a launchpad account ?
[00:47] <mathay> bodhi_zazen: https://launchpad.net/~andymathay
[00:47]  * bodhi_zazen notes that needs to be a requirement for membership
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:47] <MootBot> Final result is 9 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 9
[00:48] <Vantrax> i thought it was
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> well done mathay
[00:48] <paultag> grats mathay !
[00:48]  * Vantrax cheers mathay
[00:48] <mathay> Silver_Fox_, Vantrax & paultag: thank you. :)
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> PabloRubianes: you here ?
[00:48] <PabloRubianes> yes here
[00:48] <swoody> congrats mathay :D
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] PabloRubianes for membership =)
[00:48] <MootBot> New Topic:  PabloRubianes for membership =)
[00:49] <PabloRubianes> hello everyone...
[00:49] <PabloRubianes> I am pablo my wikipage is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PabloRubianes
[00:49] <mathay> swoody: thank you too. :)
[00:50] <PabloRubianes> and duanedesign is my master
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> ooo, nice wiki page =)
[00:50] <paultag> o/
[00:50] <jamesrfla> Nice wiki PabloRubianes
[00:50] <duanedesign> it is nice :)
[00:50] <paultag> PabloRubianes: in your work, moving forward with the community, have you considered translation?
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> yes paultag
[00:51] <PabloRubianes> thanks... there's a link to my launchpad profile
[00:51] <bodhi_zazen> paultag: if it is on topic, just proceed
[00:51] <Rocket2DMn> paultag, his wiki page says he does some
[00:51] <paultag> OK. Good
[00:51] <duanedesign> paultag: good question. He has brought up translating my project BOUCFT
[00:51] <paultag> PabloRubianes: do it :)
[00:51] <paultag> duanedesign: ah, outstanding
[00:51] <bodhi_zazen> Any other comments ?
[00:51] <duanedesign> yes
[00:52]  * bodhi_zazen has a committment to another meeting in 10 min =)
[00:52]  * Silver_Fox_ has commitment to bed in 10 minutes too bodhi_zazen  =]
[00:52] <duanedesign> PabloRubianes haas donr wiki work as well as how tos in spanish
[00:52] <PabloRubianes> yes i like traslate, the wiki team and as i am a computer engeneer student I would like to develop some free software as well
[00:52] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] PabloRubianes for membership 8)
[00:52] <MootBot> Please vote on:  PabloRubianes for membership 8).
[00:52] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:52] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:52] <duanedesign> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:52] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:52] <jamesrfla> +1
[00:52] <paultag> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:52] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:52] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:52] <Vantrax> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:52] <Vantrax> always need more translators
[00:53] <swoody> +1
[00:53] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> Any additional votes ?
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:53] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 8
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> well done PabloRubianes
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> PabloRubianes: your LP name ?
[00:54] <paultag> grats PabloRubianes
[00:54] <PabloRubianes> thanks!!!
[00:54] <duanedesign> Congrats
[00:54] <swoody> congrats PabloRubianes :D
[00:54] <PabloRubianes> https://launchpad.net/~pablorubianes-uy
[00:54] <PabloRubianes> thanks! i had a great master!!
[00:54] <duanedesign> my first Padawan..all grown up
[00:54] <Rocket2DMn> is Buuntu up for voting?
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> any other business ?
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> Buuntu: you here ?
[00:54] <Buuntu> Rocket2DMn, I don't believe so, I haven't been able to get a hold of nhasian
[00:55] <Buuntu> (my mentor)
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> Buuntu: have you a wiki ?
[00:55] <pedro3005> Buuntu, he doesn't need to be here
[00:55] <Buuntu> bodhi_zazen, yes https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Buuntu
[00:56] <Vantrax> bodhi_zazen is the next best thing to God around here... he can call the vote even if nhasian isnt around
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> That wiki page sucks =)
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> j/k
[00:56] <Rocket2DMn> paultag, he's in your neck of the woods i think
[00:56] <paultag> Buuntu?
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Buuntu for membership
[00:56] <MootBot> New Topic:  Buuntu for membership
[00:56] <pedro3005> he can call the vote even if freenode goes down
[00:56] <dvz-> orly?
[00:56] <paultag> Rocket2DMn: he just started poking about the Ohio LoCo. I'll have to get me, dvz- mathay and Buuntu together for the NEO Bug Jam
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> Buuntu: has been awesome and I support his membership =)
[00:57] <Rocket2DMn> awesome
[00:57] <Buuntu> bodhi_zazen, :(, does not...
[00:57] <paultag> o/
[00:57] <Rocket2DMn> alright well we got 2-3 minutes left, lets' do it
[00:57] <paultag> me as well. I <3 Buuntu
[00:57] <duanedesign> yep
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] Buuntu for membership
[00:57] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Buuntu for membership.
[00:57] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:57] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:57] <Buuntu> paultag, :D
[00:57] <swoody> +1
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:57] <paultag> +1
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> +0
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:57] <dvz-> +1
[00:57] <MootBot> Abstention received from Silver_Fox_. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:57] <duanedesign> +1
[00:57] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:57] <jamesrfla> +1
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:58] <bgs100> +1
[00:58] <MootBot> +1 received from bgs100. 8 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:58] <bodhi_zazen> any other votes ?
[00:58] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:58] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 8
[00:58] <Silver_Fox_> well done Buuntu
[00:58] <swoody> woot! Welcome aboard, Buuntu !!
[00:58] <Buuntu> :D, thanks everyone
[00:58] <duanedesign> woo hoo
[00:58] <PabloRubianes> congratulations buuntu!
[00:59] <duanedesign> \o/
[00:59] <Buuntu> sorry I came in late, i had a rough day...
[00:59] <swoody> Buuntu, really like the look of you wiki page, btw
[00:59] <bgs100> Congratulations PabloRubianes and Buuntu (Sorry, was afk during PabloRubianes's voting)
[00:59] <mathay> Congrats, Buuntu! :)
[00:59] <bodhi_zazen> any other business ?
[00:59] <Buuntu> swoody, thanks
[00:59] <paultag> grats Buuntu, mathay, pedro3005, PabloRubianes
[00:59] <bodhi_zazen> welcome new ones =)
[00:59] <Joeb454> I'm going to have to leave, adios!
[00:59] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:59] <Joeb454> congrats all new members!
[00:59] <bodhi_zazen> #endmeeting
[00:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:59.
</pre>
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
