{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Us ==

We in the YNU group strive to help the young new users of Ubuntu in any way we can concerning their integration into the Beginners Team, and their extension into the community as a whole.  We are also here to answer any questions that these users may have to do with Ubuntu. 

== Members ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''Role'''
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox|Silver_Fox]]</nowiki>
| Lead
|-
| {*} <nowiki>[[forestpiskie|forestpiskie]]</nowiki>
| Lead
|-
| <nowiki>[[JoelGoguen|jgoguen]]</nowiki>
| Lead
|-
| <nowiki>[[lukjad007]]</nowiki>
| Member
|-
| <nowiki>[[talsemgeest]]</nowiki>
| Member
|-
| <nowiki>[[ZachK_]]</nowiki>
| Member
|}

== Objectives ==
* Encourage respect and observation of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.0.1| Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> at all times
* Answer all questions young new users have about Ubuntu
* Assist with <nowiki>[[https://help.launchpad.net/BecomingAnUbuntero|signing the Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>
* Help new users get a basic wiki page created
* To help these users integrate with the Beginners Team and the Ubuntu Community as a whole

== Join us ==

Please join this group if you are between the ages of 13 and 18. To join all you need do is add your name to the member list shown above.  Either <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox| Silver_Fox]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[forestpixie|forestpixie]]</nowiki> will be in contact with you shortly afterwards.

== Meetings ==
The next meeting is '''TBA''' at '''16:00 UTC''' in channel '''#ubuntu-beginners-YNU''' on '''irc.freenode.net'''.

Details for the next meeting, as well as logs of previous meetings, may be found on our <nowiki>[[Meetings|Meetings]]</nowiki> page.

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
