{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/*  */

== Classroom Sessions ==

<nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-Classroom | Classroom sessions]]</nowiki> are one the most important ways to let people learn about what ubuntu is and holding tutorial sessions to explain things. Whilst 'being there' at the session is always best, they are set up so that people attending can ask questions directly to the tutor. Each classroom sesssion is fully logged and you are always welcome to contact the tutor by email if you have a question that was not answered in the session.

This area holds previous classroom sessions, current ones and planned ones. If you would like to help by giving a classroom session please get in touch. Also, if there is an area where you feel a new classroom session would be of help... do please let us know!

Each new set of classroom sessions is held on the subjects of that release. However, if you are awaiting a 

=== Saucy Cycle ===

<nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2013/05/21/%23ubuntu-classroom.html#t16:01 | Introduction to Ubuntu Quality Team ]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Activities/Classroom/Saucy | Classroom Sessions held for Saucy ]]</nowiki>classroom session for the current cycle, please do have a read of the sessions held for the previous one. Whilst some of the information may be out of date, the general idea is not. If after reading a previous release classroom session you still have questions.... Ask us, as it will help improve the next one!
