{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Add <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-council|~ubuntu-beginners-council]]</nowiki> as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams.
|-
| <nowiki>[[Ash R]]</nowiki>
| Add a logo to the beginners team social group as mentioned <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/group.php?do=discuss&group=&discussionid=484 | here]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[Paultag]]</nowiki>
| Discuss purpose of the council
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Team Renaming
|-
| <nowiki>[[Bodsda]]</nowiki>
| FG meetings please!
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

=== Log ===
{{{#!IRC
[00:10] <nhandler> #startmeeting

[00:10] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:10. The chair is nhandler.

[00:10] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]

[00:10] <nhandler> Ok, time for the Ubuntu Beginners Team meeting

[00:10] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Add ~ubuntu-beginners-council as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams

[00:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  Add ~ubuntu-beginners-council as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams

[00:11] <nhandler> Discussion has already taken place on the mailing list about this topic, and it appears that a good portion of the team has no objections to this

[00:11] <bodhizazen> :)

[00:11] <jamesrfla> Welcome bodhizazen

[00:11] <nhandler> Hey bodhizazen, feel free to take over, I'll just send the MootBot commands :)

[00:12] <bodhizazen> do we have an agenda ?

[00:12] <Bodsda> o/ I have no objections

[00:12] <nhandler> Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

[00:12] <jamesrfla> bodhizazen: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

[00:12] <Bodsda> bodhizazen: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings/#General%20Agenda%20Items%20and%20Proposals

[00:12] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

[00:12] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

[00:13] <bodhizazen> got it :)

[00:13] <bodhizazen> I think it is a good idea nhandler

[00:13] <nhandler> To summarize the agenda item, by having the council as an admin, they would be able to add/remove members as well as modify various details about the team. They would not take over running the teams, this would be left to the Focus Group Leaders

[00:14] <Rocket2DMn> Does this apply to the umbrella team as well?

[00:14] <bodhizazen> I also feel we should consolidate LP wiki pages and mailing lists where at all possible

[00:15] <nhandler> bodhizazen: All mailing lists aside from the main team one and the council one should have been disabled

[00:15] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: This would apply to all teams except ~ubuntu-beginners-council

[00:15] <bodhizazen> IMO it is important to be able to administrate these LP teams if an administrator goes AWOL (which has not happened recently, but is a problem when it occurs).

[00:15] <Rocket2DMn> do we know if the other mailing lists have been disabled?

[00:15] <Bodsda> the original ufbt mailing list no longer works

[00:16] <Rocket2DMn> thats b/c the team name changed

[00:16] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Yes. Unless they have been manually recreated, they were all deleted when the teams were renamed

[00:16] <Rocket2DMn> ok, thanks nhandler

[00:16] <bodhizazen> sweet

[00:16] <nhandler> Think we can vote on this issue?

[00:16] <bodhizazen> I do not feel our mailing list is so active that we really need more then one list at this tiem

[00:16] <bodhizazen> +1vote :)

[00:17] <Rocket2DMn> agreed bodhizazen , we discussed that a few months ago

[00:17] <Bodsda> +1

[00:17] <nhandler> [VOTE] Add ~ubuntu-beginners-council as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams.

[00:17] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Add ~ubuntu-beginners-council as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams..

[00:17] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:17] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:17] <nhandler> +1

[00:17] <bodhizazen> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhizazen. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:17] <swoody> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:17] <Ash_R> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from Ash_R. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4

[00:17] <Bodsda> +1

[00:17] <jgoguen> bodhizazen: +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from Bodsda. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:17] <MontelEdwards> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from MontelEdwards. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6

[00:17] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:17] <Snova> +1

[00:17] <jgoguen> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from Snova. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9

[00:17] <drs305> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 10 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 10

[00:17] <bgs100> +1

[00:17] <MootBot> +1 received from bgs100. 11 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 11

[00:18] <nhandler> Any more votes?

[00:18] <ibuclaw> +1

[00:18] <st33med> +1

[00:18] <MootBot> +1 received from ibuclaw. 12 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 12

[00:18] <MootBot> +1 received from st33med. 13 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 13

[00:18] <bodhizazen> lol

[00:18] <MontelEdwards> Think that was it, lol

[00:18] <nhandler> #endvote

[00:18] <st33med> I just came in lol

[00:19] <st33med> I didn't know what I voted on so... I SCREWED THE VOTES, RECOUNT!

[00:19] <st33med> XD

[00:19] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[00:19] <MootBot> Final result is 13 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 13

[00:19] <Vantrax> lol

[00:19] <nhandler> [ACTION] nhandler to contact LP team owners to get necessary permission changes made

[00:19] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nhandler to contact LP team owners to get necessary permission changes made

[00:20] <bodhizazen> thank you nhandler

[00:20] <nhandler> [AGREED] Add ~ubuntu-beginners-council as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams.

[00:20] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Add ~ubuntu-beginners-council as administrator for all Ubuntu Beginners Team Launchpad teams.

[00:20]  * cprofitt apologizes for being late

[00:20] <nhandler> [TOPIC]  	  Add a logo to the beginners team social group

[00:20] <MootBot> New Topic:   	  Add a logo to the beginners team social group

[00:20] <Vantrax> we have a social group?

[00:20] <Ash_R> On ubuntu forums the social group Beginner Team Members  [ http://ubuntuforums.org/group.php?groupid=79 ] lacks a logo.  It has the default question mark.   Should it not be changed to something else,  such as the logo used on launchpad ( https://launchpadlibrarian.net/15997130/branding.png ) ?   Another idea,  could be to do a similar logo to that of the unanswered posts team ( http://ubuntuforums.org/image.php?groupid=52&dateline=1229

[00:20] <Ash_R> 849008 ) .  If any action is to be taken I think only bodhi can change the logo as he created the social group.

[00:21] <Ash_R> any thoughts?

[00:21] <bodhizazen> I am "OK" with that, but to be honest was consiering disbanding the social group as we all hang on IRC

[00:21] <MontelEdwards> bodhizazen: all hang?

[00:21] <MontelEdwards> what do you mean?

[00:21] <bodhizazen> LOL

[00:22] <Bodsda> if we keep the social group, which i dont think brings anything to the team, then we should get a logo, but I have no issues with disbanding it

[00:22] <bodhizazen> hang-out, ie are active on IRC

[00:22] <nhandler> Are there any reasons to have the social group?

[00:22] <Bodsda> MontelEdwards: we are an IRC orientated team

[00:22] <cprofitt> bodhizazen, I would not disband

[00:22] <Bodsda> who work heavily on the forums

[00:22] <nhandler> cprofitt: Why not?

[00:22] <cprofitt> it still serves as an ad that we exist

[00:22] <bodhizazen> When we started the team, social groups were the rage

[00:22] <nhandler> Don't we have a moderated user group on the forums already?

[00:23] <Ash_R> nhandler,  wasn't it a place to introduce ourselves not only to the team but also to the forum based community

[00:23] <bodhizazen> now we have irc and mailing lists and what noe

[00:23] <bodhizazen> *not*

[00:23] <MontelEdwards> woah woah woah, do you mean take away the team IRC?

[00:23] <Ash_R> some may bot be on irc

[00:23] <Bodsda> MontelEdwards: no

[00:23] <Ash_R> *not

[00:23] <cprofitt> I do not see a reason to have more than one social group, but keeping one would still serve a purpose

[00:23] <cprofitt> and does no harm

[00:23] <MontelEdwards> Bodsda: then what?

[00:23] <bodhizazen> Well, the problem was ...

[00:23] <nhandler> Ash_R: If they have any intention of joining the team, they will need to get on IRC

[00:23] <bodhizazen> we got a ton of join requests from non-members

[00:24] <bodhizazen> so ...

[00:24] <Bodsda> MontelEdwards: the forums have social groups, just a little team page thingy.. we have one but hardly use it

[00:24] <bodhizazen> we made 2 social groups

[00:24] <bodhizazen> one moderated, members only

[00:24] <bodhizazen> the other unmoderated

[00:24] <bodhizazen> over time it seems the social groups have been used less and less

[00:25] <bodhizazen> if we keep it, I am OK with adding an icon

[00:25] <MontelEdwards> Oh forget that then

[00:25] <cprofitt> if it was causing some damage I could see getting rid of it...

[00:25] <cprofitt> but it really does no harm...

[00:25] <Bodsda> it does no harm keeping it

[00:25] <nhandler> Should we vote on this?

[00:25] <swoody> I'm in favor of keeping, and adding an icon

[00:25] <cprofitt> and people looking at members profiles will see it and see that a group exists

[00:25] <Ash_R> its a subtle minor change :)

[00:25] <nhandler> [VOTE] Delete the UBT Social Group on the Forums?

[00:25] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Delete the UBT Social Group on the Forums?.

[00:25] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:25] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:25] <jamesrfla> +1 nhandler

[00:25] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:26] <jamesrfla> oh

[00:26] <cprofitt> -1

[00:26] <Bodsda> -1

[00:26] <MootBot> -1 received from cprofitt. 1 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:26] <MootBot> -1 received from Bodsda. 1 for, 2 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1

[00:26] <nhandler> +0

[00:26] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 1 for, 2 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1

[00:26] <Ash_R> -1

[00:26] <MootBot> -1 received from Ash_R. 1 for, 3 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2

[00:26] <jamesrfla> -1

[00:26] <drs305> +1

[00:26] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 2 for, 3 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1

[00:26] <bodhizazen> 0

[00:26] <swoody> -1

[00:26] <ibuclaw> 0

[00:26] <MootBot> -1 received from swoody. 2 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2

[00:26] <bodhizazen> +0

[00:26] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhizazen. 2 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -2

[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> +0

[00:26] <jamesrfla> um I want to change mine to -1

[00:26] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 2 for, 4 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now -2

[00:26] <duanedesign> -1

[00:26] <MootBot> -1 received from duanedesign. 2 for, 5 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:26] <ibuclaw> +0

[00:26] <MootBot> Abstention received from ibuclaw. 2 for, 5 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:26] <bgs100> +0

[00:26] <MootBot> Abstention received from bgs100. 2 for, 5 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:26] <nhandler> jamesrfla: Just vote again

[00:26] <Joeb454> 0

[00:26] <Joeb454> +0

[00:26] <MootBot> Abstention received from Joeb454. 2 for, 5 against. 6 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:26] <jamesrfla> it said I already votted

[00:27] <Bodsda> jamesrfla: dont worry, its minus anyway

[00:27] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[00:27] <MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 5 against. 6 abstained. Total: -3

[00:27] <MontelEdwards> crap

[00:27] <MontelEdwards> i forgot to vote

[00:27] <ibuclaw> MontelEdwards, ideally, only members should vote

[00:27] <nhandler> [VOTE] Add icon from Launchpad to Social Group

[00:27] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Add icon from Launchpad to Social Group.

[00:27] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:27] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:27] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:27] <Joeb454> +1

[00:27] <ibuclaw> +0

[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from ibuclaw. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:27] <nhandler> +1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:27] <Bodsda> +1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Bodsda. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4

[00:27] <Ash_R> +1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Ash_R. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:27] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[00:27] <MontelEdwards> +1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from MontelEdwards. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:27] <swoody> +1

[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:28] <drs305> +1

[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 9 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 9

[00:28] <bodhizazen> +1

[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhizazen. 10 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 10

[00:28] <cprofitt> +0

[00:28] <MootBot> Abstention received from cprofitt. 10 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 10

[00:28] <duanedesign> -1

[00:28] <MootBot> -1 received from duanedesign. 10 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 9

[00:28] <bodhizazen> which icon do we want ?

[00:28] <nhandler> bodhizazen: The icon on https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners

[00:28] <Snova> +1

[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from Snova. 11 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 10

[00:29] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[00:29] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 1 against. 2 abstained. Total: 10

[00:29] <Ash_R> bodhizazen, perhaps we should leave it open for submissions

[00:29] <Ash_R> or maybe not as it would be good for unity of the logos on the forum and launchpad

[00:29] <nhandler> [AGREED] Add icon from https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners to Social Group

[00:29] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Add icon from https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners to Social Group

[00:30] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Discuss purpose of the council

[00:30] <MootBot> New Topic:  Discuss purpose of the council

[00:30] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure#Jedi%20Council

[00:30] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure#Jedi%20Council

[00:30] <nhandler> The purpose of the council is briefly discussed above

[00:30] <nhandler> Sadly, paultag is not present

[00:31] <nhandler> Based on the discussion on the mailing list, it appears that several members want the council to take a more active role in the running of the team

[00:31] <Bodsda> note: agenda item added (sorry for last minute addition)

[00:31] <nhandler> Before doing this, I would like to decide on a clear purpose and guidelines for the council

[00:31] <duanedesign> what is not being done?

[00:32] <bodhizazen> icon has been changed ;)

[00:32] <Bodsda> yay :)

[00:32] <nhandler> [IDEA] Have council create charter to be approved at next team meeting

[00:32] <MootBot> IDEA received:  Have council create charter to be approved at next team meeting

[00:32] <nhandler> This is what the motu-release team did during the Jaunty cycle

[00:33] <cprofitt> it may take more than one meeting to iron out a charter

[00:33] <bodhizazen> I think I missed the discussion nhandler =)

[00:33] <cprofitt> but the idea is sound...

[00:33] <Rocket2DMn> Just FYI, I won't be here for the next meeting.   I'm leaving Friday for vacation

[00:33] <cprofitt> I also did not catch this discussion on the mailing list...

[00:33] <bodhizazen> what is it we want the council to do ?

[00:33] <Rocket2DMn> I won't be able to participate in such a discussion at this time

[00:33] <cprofitt> I will have to make sure I am on it...

[00:33] <bodhizazen> in general

[00:33] <cprofitt> Rocket2DMn, why?

[00:33] <ibuclaw> nhandler, afaik, the "Knights" are the proactive role members in general who try to keep the peace

[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> cprofitt, i can right now (this evening), but ill be gone for a few weeks starting on Friday, and I'm very busy up til then.

[00:34] <nhandler> ibuclaw: I agree. I expressed my opinion on the issue on the list

[00:34] <ibuclaw> the "Council" make decisions when things escalate beyond what the "Knights" can handle (ie: temp bannings, etc,etc)

[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> so i wont be able to help much with putting together a proposal

[00:34] <cprofitt> k

[00:35] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Ok, we will be sure to catch you up when you return

[00:35] <nhandler> [VOTE] Have council create charter to be approved at next team meeting

[00:35] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Have council create charter to be approved at next team meeting.

[00:35] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:35] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:35] <Rocket2DMn> thats fine nhandler

[00:35] <Rocket2DMn> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <ibuclaw> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from ibuclaw. 0 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <Bodsda> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from Bodsda. 0 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <jamesrfla> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from jamesrfla. 0 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <Ash_R> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from Ash_R. 0 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <bodhizazen> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhizazen. 0 for, 0 against. 6 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <nhandler> I will abstain since I am on the council

[00:35] <nhandler> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 0 for, 0 against. 7 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <bodhizazen> lol

[00:35] <cprofitt> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from cprofitt. 0 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:35] <duanedesign> +1

[00:35] <swoody> +1

[00:35] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 1 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:35] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 2 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:35] <Joeb454> +0

[00:35] <MootBot> Abstention received from Joeb454. 2 for, 0 against. 9 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:36] <Rocket2DMn> Team members need to vote plesae

[00:36] <cprofitt> I am indifferent to this... but we have been running fairly well w/o such a charter

[00:36] <bodhizazen> nhandler: or someone please forward the email to me, I can not find the discussion in my inbox

[00:36] <drs305> +0

[00:36] <MootBot> Abstention received from drs305. 2 for, 0 against. 10 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:36] <Joeb454> I only abstained because I'm currently on the council, and we seem to be doing OK as is

[00:36] <cprofitt> nhandler, please forward it to me as well

[00:36] <cprofitt> unless the discussion was all today

[00:36] <nhandler> [ACTION] nhandler to forward email to entire council

[00:36] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nhandler to forward email to entire council

[00:36] <bodhizazen> thank you :)

[00:37]  * cprofitt nods

[00:37] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[00:37] <MootBot> Final result is 2 for, 0 against. 10 abstained. Total: 2

[00:37] <nhandler> [AGREED] Have council create charter to be approved at next team meeting

[00:37] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Have council create charter to be approved at next team meeting

[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[00:37]  * bodhizazen would like to suggest there are always things to do if people would like "assignments" , lol

[00:37] <duanedesign> I think the main proponent of the council taking on a more active role was ptag

[00:37] <nhandler> [ACTION] Council to schedule meeting to start work on a charter

[00:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Council to schedule meeting to start work on a charter

[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> Did you want to include paultag directly in creating that charter?

[00:37] <nhandler> Yes Rocket2DMn ?

[00:38] <jamesrfla> bodhizazen: is there a wiki on that?

[00:38] <cprofitt> woah...

[00:38] <cprofitt> that was 10 abstentions... I do not think the measure passed

[00:38] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: I have no objections to including him

[00:38] <bodhizazen> no jamesrfla  , we had a discussion  on a task list at one point ...

[00:38] <MontelEdwards> cprofitt: is right

[00:39] <nhandler> cprofitt: A vote of +0 is non-blocking on the issue

[00:39] <cprofitt> nhandler, ?

[00:39] <cprofitt> We had less than 50% of the members vote yes

[00:39] <nhandler> cprofitt: Only a vote of -1 is considered "blocking" on an issue. +0 does not block.

[00:39] <swoody> cprofitt:  but nobody voted to stop it :)

[00:39] <cprofitt> if we are going to have a +1 and 20 +0s = a yes vote I will stop voting +0

[00:39] <duanedesign> even if a charted is a reiteration of already established procedure, at least it was addressed

[00:40] <MontelEdwards> MootBot: should take off +0 because its pointless

[00:40] <cprofitt> do we have rules for votes...

[00:40] <bodhizazen> abstentions do not prevent a measure from passing, you need to -1

[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> duanedesign makes a good point

[00:40] <cprofitt> please change my vote to a -1 then

[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> we can just reiterate what we already do

[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> (and dont do)

[00:40] <nhandler> cprofitt: No, we have not created clear guidelines for the votes

[00:40] <Hellow> What if the entire team votes +0?

[00:40] <cprofitt> as the voting does not follow any rules I am familiar with

[00:40] <Hellow> er, 0

[00:40] <MontelEdwards> Good question habtool

[00:40] <MontelEdwards> ah

[00:40] <MontelEdwards> Hellow:

[00:40] <nhandler> cprofitt: We have been using the standard voting procedure used by most other teams in the community

[00:40] <bodhizazen> we have, however, discussed votes before

[00:41] <bodhizazen> In general ....

[00:41] <bodhizazen> to block an action you need to -1

[00:41] <cprofitt> nhandler, I did not know we had a procedure to handle such a large contingent of +0 votes

[00:41] <bodhizazen> In general if the majority of the team abstains we put the item on the next meetings agenda

[00:42] <cprofitt> bodhizazen, +1

[00:42] <cprofitt> that is what I thought

[00:42] <Joeb454> I'd say put it on the next agenda

[00:42] <nhandler> However, in this case, we are just having the council propose a charter (which won't take affect until approved at the next meeting)

[00:42] <Joeb454> paultag isn't here either

[00:42] <Ash_R> me too

[00:42] <cprofitt> and with only 2 votes for and 10 abstentions I would not count it as passed

[00:42] <Joeb454> though nhandler does have a point...

[00:42] <bodhizazen> we have no "rules" for how many voting members need to be present to hold a vote or what % an action needs to pass

[00:42] <MontelEdwards> bodhizazen nhandler cprofitt can we just re vote?

[00:42] <bodhizazen> has been "simple majority"

[00:42] <MontelEdwards> Now that we know the rulew

[00:42] <bodhizazen> yes :)

[00:42] <Hellow> I would have to say that 10 abstentions and 2 +1s would not pass

[00:42] <zu22> hi guys

[00:42] <st33med> 2/3s?

[00:43] <Joeb454> MontelEdwards: you're not on the team, technically you shouldn't be voting :

[00:43] <Hellow> at least, if it was under my control :)

[00:43] <bodhizazen> well Hellow 2 +1 and 10 0 technically =

[00:43] <nhandler> [IDEA] Discuss voting guidelines on mailing list and vote on it at next meeting

[00:43] <MootBot> IDEA received:  Discuss voting guidelines on mailing list and vote on it at next meeting

[00:43] <bodhizazen> 2 + votes

[00:43] <st33med> 2/3s of the votes have to be +1

[00:43] <zu22> 0

[00:43] <bodhizazen> as abstensions are deciding not to vote

[00:43] <Joeb454> +1

[00:43] <bodhizazen> IMHO

[00:43] <Rocket2DMn> lol, vote on voting guidelines

[00:43] <MontelEdwards> Joeb454 true, but im more active than you so i dont see the point of me not voteing

[00:43] <MontelEdwards> no offense

[00:44] <Hellow> MontelEdwards: That's debatable, but lets discuss it in a different channel

[00:44] <Hellow> Also, only team members can vote

[00:44] <Hellow> eod :P

[00:44] <jamesrfla> zu22: do a + then your number

[00:44] <bodhizazen> MontelEdwards: you are too new to see the point

[00:44] <zu22> +1

[00:44] <bodhizazen> ask the young members team :)

[00:44] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:44] <zu22> i vote for Ubuntu Beginners Team

[00:44] <zu22> :)

[00:44] <MontelEdwards> bodhizazen: i have been here for 3 months

[00:44] <jamesrfla> bodhizazen: young members team?

[00:44] <Bodsda> MontelEdwards: please, discuss in #ubuntu-beginners

[00:44] <bodhizazen> Well some of us have been here for longer

[00:45]  * Hellow has been here for... over a year, I think

[00:45] <bodhizazen> so please ask in a more appropriate venue, lol

[00:45]  * jamesrfla about the same a Hellow probably less

[00:45] <nhandler> So do we just want to discuss the voting on the mailing list for now?

[00:45] <MontelEdwards> no, its been more than 3 months its 5

[00:45] <Hellow> Also, lol voting on voting

[00:45] <Ash_R> jamesrfla, we have a focus group :)

[00:45] <Bodsda> MontelEdwards: enough, please

[00:45] <Hellow> MontelEdwards: Only team members can vote. EOD.

[00:45] <zu22> Bodsda +1

[00:46] <Hellow> yes, +1 Bodsda

[00:46] <MontelEdwards> Hellow: eod?

[00:46] <Bodsda> end of discussion

[00:46] <Hellow> MontelEdwards: End Of Discussion

[00:46] <nhandler> [VOTE] Discuss voting guidelines on mailing list and vote on it at next meeting

[00:46] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Discuss voting guidelines on mailing list and vote on it at next meeting.

[00:46] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:46] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:46] <Bodsda> can we get back ontopic please

[00:46] <cprofitt> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from cprofitt. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:46] <Bodsda> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from Bodsda. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:46] <zu22> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from zu22. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:46] <jgoguen> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4

[00:46] <swoody> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:46] <Hellow> +0

[00:46] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from Hellow. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6

[00:46] <duanedesign> +1

[00:46] <bodhizazen> +0

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhizazen. 7 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:46] <Rocket2DMn> +0

[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 7 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:46] <MontelEdwards> +0

[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from MontelEdwards. 7 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:46] <nhandler> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 8 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:46] <Joeb454> +1

[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 9 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 9

[00:47] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[00:47] <MootBot> Final result is 9 for, 0 against. 4 abstained. Total: 9

[00:47] <Ash_R> +0

[00:47] <nhandler> [AGREED] Discuss voting guidelines on mailing list and vote on it at next meeting

[00:47] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Discuss voting guidelines on mailing list and vote on it at next meeting

[00:47] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Team Renaming

[00:47] <MootBot> New Topic:  Team Renaming

[00:48] <nhandler> For those who have not noticed, the team has been renamed

[00:48] <bodhizazen> :)

[00:48] <bodhizazen> dead horse :)

[00:48] <cprofitt> [LINK] http://www.robertsrules.com/faq.html#6

[00:48] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.robertsrules.com/faq.html#6

[00:48] <Rocket2DMn> what?! really!?

[00:48] <Hellow> Was about to ask if we had already done thing :P

[00:48] <nhandler> We went from the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team (UFBT) to the Ubuntu Beginners Team (UBT)

[00:48] <Hellow> this*

[00:48] <ibuclaw> Rocket2DMn, I'm just as shocked as you

[00:48] <duanedesign> \o/

[00:48] <nhandler> This means that all Launchpad teams were also renamed

[00:48] <bodhizazen> and the channel :)

[00:48] <nhandler> So our main team is now https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners

[00:48] <nhandler> [LINK] https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners

[00:48] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners

[00:49] <zu22> kewl

[00:49] <nhandler> The Focus Group teams went from ~ubuntuforums-beginners-foo to ~ubuntu-beginners-foo

[00:49] <nhandler> During this transition, the mailing lists and their archives were deleted

[00:49] <bodhizazen> Rocket2DMn: It was a request from the CC really

[00:49] <nhandler> However, the mailing list for the main team and for the council are now back up (but with new addresses)

[00:49] <Hellow> Not really a request, more of a suggestion :P

[00:49] <zu22> nhandler: lol why delete the archives? isn't that useful to have?

[00:50] <nhandler> zu22: It made it a LOT easier on the LP admins. And many team members have copies if needed

[00:50] <Rocket2DMn> bodhizazen, i know, i was playing dumb :)

[00:50] <zu22> nhandler: ah

[00:50] <nhandler> The IRC channel also moved to #ubuntu-beginners

[00:50] <bodhizazen> Ah, you got me Rocket2DMn

[00:50] <nhandler> Now, we are working on ensuring that all wiki pages have the correct information

[00:50] <bodhizazen> lol

[00:50] <swoody> o/

[00:51] <nhandler> Go ahead swoody

[00:51]  * bodhizazen suggests a team task / to-do list

[00:51] <jamesrfla> +1 Bod

[00:51] <nhandler> bodhizazen: Generating the to-do list for the transition would probably be harder than the transition itself ;)

[00:51] <jamesrfla> +1 bodhizazen

[00:51] <cprofitt> bodhizazen, the headers are all that likely need to be changed...

[00:51] <cprofitt> so it should be simple to ensure that...

[00:51] <Hellow> bodhizazen: Although I admit that would be nice, isnt that covered, at least in part, by the various agendas that we have?

[00:51] <duanedesign> will #ubuntuforums-beginners eventually stop forwarding to #ubuntu-beginners?

[00:51] <cprofitt> I will check the EDU team header after the meeting

[00:52] <bodhizazen> no duanedesign

[00:52] <nhandler> cprofitt: I think I got the headers fixed. But many pages include the mailing list URL or links to the LP page or IRC channel

[00:52] <cprofitt> k

[00:52] <cprofitt> I will check the EDU pages tonight

[00:52] <bodhizazen> nhandler: make the to-do list generic enough to be fast and easy to maintain

[00:52] <nhandler> [ACTION] cprofitt to check EDU pages

[00:52] <MootBot> ACTION received:  cprofitt to check EDU pages

[00:52] <Rocket2DMn> I think FG leads should check their own pages

[00:52] <nhandler> bodhizazen: If it is too generic, it won't help with anything

[00:52]  * MontelEdwards wouldnt mind scanning all the pages, he has nothing better to do.

[00:53] <zu22> swoody: wb

[00:53] <nhandler> [IDEA] Each FG Lead takes care of their own wiki pages

[00:53] <MootBot> IDEA received:  Each FG Lead takes care of their own wiki pages

[00:53] <duanedesign> what happened toour launchpad job thig?

[00:53] <zu22> nhandler +1

[00:53] <duanedesign> s/thig/thing

[00:53] <bodhizazen> probably should discuss a team to-do list of some kind

[00:53] <swoody> ty zu22

[00:53] <zu22> [IDEA] Everyone add the new address to their .signature file

[00:53] <MootBot> IDEA received:  Everyone add the new address to their .signature file

[00:53] <nhandler> bodhizazen: Would you like to create one?

[00:54] <bodhizazen> I would like to see if the team will use it first

[00:54] <swoody> So, the renaming hasn't affected any subscriptions, correct? We don't have to re-join all the LP groups we had joined previously?

[00:54] <bodhizazen> some say yea some say Ni

[00:54] <nhandler> Correct swoody

[00:54] <nhandler> [VOTE] Should we have a team todo list?

[00:54] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Should we have a team todo list?.

[00:54] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:54] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:54] <Ash_R> +1

[00:54] <MootBot> +1 received from Ash_R. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:55] <bodhizazen> +1

[00:55] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhizazen. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:55] <cprofitt> +0

[00:55] <MootBot> Abstention received from cprofitt. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:55] <swoody> +1

[00:55] <Hellow> +1

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from Hellow. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:55] <zu22> +1

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from zu22. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6

[00:55] <duanedesign> +1

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:55] <Bodsda> +0

[00:55] <MootBot> Abstention received from Bodsda. 7 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:55] <drs305> +1

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 8 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:55] <Rocket2DMn> -1

[00:55] <MootBot> -1 received from Rocket2DMn. 8 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:55] <nhandler> +0

[00:55] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 8 for, 1 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:55] <MontelEdwards> +1

[00:55] <MootBot> +1 received from MontelEdwards. 9 for, 1 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:55] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[00:56] <MootBot> Final result is 9 for, 1 against. 3 abstained. Total: 8

[00:56] <Hellow> MontelEdwards: Why are you voting?

[00:56] <nhandler> [AGREED] Create a team todo list

[00:56] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Create a team todo list

[00:56] <nhandler> bodhizazen: Would you like to create it?

[00:56] <bodhizazen> the only way we can restrict that Hellow is to use Votebot

[00:56] <duanedesign> did we decide not to manage jobs through Launchpad?

[00:56] <bodhizazen> mootbot is open

[00:56] <zu22> MOntelEdwards: please respect the team guidelines. Onlt members can vote. Thank you.

[00:56] <Hellow> Also, shouldnt we be more specific on what we do with our team Todo?

[00:56] <nhandler> duanedesign: That was a project through the -dev FG

[00:56] <MontelEdwards> bodhizazen: i cannot vote?

[00:56] <bodhizazen> I will, but should discuss how to use it

[00:57] <swoody> MontelEdwards:  You are not a member of the BT, so no

[00:57] <bodhizazen> MontelEdwards: that has already been addressed with you ;)

[00:57] <Bodsda> MontelEdwards: this is not the place. please, discuss those issues in #ubuntu-beginners

[00:57] <nhandler> [ACTION] bodhizazen to create todo list

[00:57] <MootBot> ACTION received:  bodhizazen to create todo list

[00:57] <bodhizazen> MontelEdwards: Mootbot allows you to vote , but team rules do not :(

[00:58] <jamesrfla> we had a discussion on one of these meetings

[00:58] <nhandler> bodhizazen: Can we discuss how to use the todo list in the main channel and via the mailing list?

[00:58]  * Hellow senses the issue of using Mootbot rising

[00:58] <MontelEdwards> bodhizazen: Sorry, i wont vote any more

[00:58] <MontelEdwards> I thought Hellow was just saying that, i didnt believe him

[00:59] <Hellow> MontelEdwards: I never lie, even to those that I want to

[00:59] <bodhizazen> mailing list or channel, does not matter

[00:59] <nhandler> [TOPIC] FG meetings please!

[00:59] <MootBot> New Topic:  FG meetings please!

[00:59] <bodhizazen> +1

[00:59] <nhandler> Bodsda: You are up

[00:59] <Bodsda> cheers

[01:00] <Bodsda> so, I would like to see FG meetings, they are always TBA atm, lets get some meetings going to make members feel more involved and to help more people

[01:00]  * bodhizazen reminds team we are at the 1 hour mark :)

[01:00] <bodhizazen> +1 Bodsda

[01:00] <jamesrfla> yeah I have another meeting that should be starting soon

[01:00] <nhandler> bodhizazen: No team is after us, so we are fine.

[01:00] <Ash_R> bodhizazen,  if me and Joeb454  are still awake i say go for it :D

[01:00] <Ash_R> carry on!

[01:01] <cprofitt> I need to talk to bodhi about the EDU team

[01:01] <bodhizazen> OK, but people hate it when meeting goes over is all

[01:01] <cprofitt> but I agree on needing meetings

[01:01] <Hellow> I dont think I have seen a FG meeting in a while

[01:01] <bodhizazen> I think the Eduteam has grown beyond this team

[01:01] <cprofitt> did we as a team every hold the FG lead vote?

[01:01] <Bodsda> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings#Focus%20Group%20Meetings

[01:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings#Focus%20Group%20Meetings

[01:01] <Joeb454> +1 for ending the meeting if we need to :) but I'm still up Ash_R

[01:01] <nhandler> No cprofitt

[01:01] <Bodsda> FG leads, please add any meetings to that table

[01:01] <Rocket2DMn> I'll be having a Wiki FG meeting after I get back from vacation in early July

[01:02] <cprofitt> we can always move the meeting to #ubuntu-beginners

[01:02] <ibuclaw> Ash_R, don't forget ibuclaw and Bodsda

[01:02] <Bodsda> ibuclaw: huh?

[01:02] <nhandler> cprofitt: No need, nobody is after us

[01:02] <Ash_R> true,  i didn't see you around ibuclaw + bodsa

[01:02] <Bodsda> what have i done?

[01:02] <nhandler> Ok, I don't think there is anything to vote on here

[01:03] <Bodsda> nope, just a kick up the backside

[01:03] <nhandler> Bodsda: Do you want to send out an email to the list so we can discuss it more?

[01:03] <Hellow> [IDEA] More Individual FG Meetings

[01:03] <MootBot> IDEA received:  More Individual FG Meetings

[01:03] <MontelEdwards> Im going to eat dinner, bye =D

[01:03] <bodhizazen> Team members can always discuss to-do and FG on the main channel at any time

[01:03] <Bodsda> nhandler: sounds like a plan

[01:03] <bodhizazen> that is what the channel fsi 4

[01:03] <Bodsda> ty Hellow

[01:04] <nhandler> [ACTION] Bodsda to send email to mailing list to discuss FG meetings

[01:04] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Bodsda to send email to mailing list to discuss FG meetings

[01:04] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Any additional meeting topics?

[01:04] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any additional meeting topics?

[01:04] <Hellow> lol

[01:04] <nhandler> Anything else to discuss tonight?

[01:04] <cprofitt> Status of EDU FG team -- though that may be council based first

[01:04] <bodhizazen> o/

[01:05] <nhandler> Go ahead bodhizazen

[01:05] <cprofitt> and when the elections are going to happen

[01:05] <bodhizazen> I would like to get a sense of how the team feel behavior in teh channel is going in general

[01:05] <nhandler> I think the EDU FG issue might be better for the council to discuss first cprofitt

[01:05] <bodhizazen> problems ?

[01:05] <Vantrax> edu fg issue?

[01:06] <duanedesign> good i think

[01:06] <Hellow> bodhizazen: Sometimes behavior with some of our newer visitors gets out of hand

[01:06] <bodhizazen> cprofitt: there was a last minute change and the team became disinterested in "elections"

[01:06] <bodhizazen> lol

[01:06] <cprofitt> lol

[01:06] <Hellow> Otherwise, we are good imo.

[01:06] <cprofitt> so we are back to bodhi dictator... tis ok with me...

[01:06] <Hellow> also, lol

[01:06] <bodhizazen> so FG leads are appointed

[01:06]  * bodhizazen prefers elections

[01:06]  * nhandler is still looking for a new LP FG lead

[01:06] <cprofitt> I respect your lead... and you have built us so far bodhizazen

[01:06] <cprofitt> we should change the wiki then

=== cjwatson_ is now known as cjwatson

[01:07] <nhandler> cprofitt: Do you want to handle that?

[01:07] <cprofitt> updating the wiki ?

[01:07] <nhandler> Yes cprofitt

[01:07] <cprofitt> sure... I can do that with the EDU review tonight

[01:07] <nhandler> [ACION] cprofitt to modify wiki to reflect that no FG elections will be held.

[01:07] <nhandler> [ACTION] cprofitt to modify wiki to reflect that no FG elections will be held.

[01:07] <MootBot> ACTION received:  cprofitt to modify wiki to reflect that no FG elections will be held.

[01:08] <bodhizazen> OK, well if there is a behavior issue bring it to the mailing list please :)

[01:08] <nhandler> [ACTION] Council to discuss Education FG issue

[01:08] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Council to discuss Education FG issue

[01:08] <nhandler> Anything else to discuss?

[01:08] <Bodsda> o/

[01:08] <nhandler> Yes Bodsda ?

[01:08] <bodhizazen> FYI we formed a young new users group to help with immature behavior, regardless of chronologic age, although I bet ie is more common in the chronologic short members

[01:09] <jamesrfla> yeah I just signed up for that team :)

[01:09] <ibuclaw> bodhizazen, how is that different from what is already out there?

[01:09] <drs305> o/

[01:09] <Bodsda> I'd just like to politely request that biccerring between members should not be done in #ubuntu-beginners  -- i know there is some anamosity between some members so please take it elsewhere

[01:09] <Ash_R> group page:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/YNU

[01:09] <ibuclaw> ie: ##ubuteens or ##ubuntu-youths

[01:09] <drs305> +1 Bodsda

[01:09] <Hellow> Also related is GNUTeens, but heh

[01:09] <jamesrfla> ibuclaw: they can take my ##ubunteen channel

[01:10] <nhandler> Bodsda: If 2 members have a problem, it should be brought to the Council's attention

[01:10] <ibuclaw> sorry if there are any spelling mistakes :)

[01:10] <bodhizazen> ibuclaw: we have some people on the team interested in helping me with the young members

[01:10] <bodhizazen> so hopefully more guidance will be provided

[01:10]  * zu22 gotta go

[01:10] <Hellow> bodhizazen: I will help, even though I am young myself :P

[01:10] <bodhizazen> the idea is to do in discreetly

[01:10] <bodhizazen> *it*

[01:10] <Bodsda> nhandler: ok, il go there in future, ty

[01:11] <bodhizazen> and not embarrass people on the main channel

[01:11] <nhandler> Any more things to discuss?

[01:11] <bodhizazen> it is a behavior group, not a social club if you catch my drift =)

[01:11] <bodhizazen> Thanks Hellow

[01:11] <nhandler> I guess I will handle the minutes for this meeting again.

[01:11] <bodhizazen> we could probably use a wiki page :)

[01:11]  * Hellow gets on it

[01:11] <nhandler> [ACTION] nhandler to handle minutes for meeting

[01:11] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nhandler to handle minutes for meeting

[01:12] <bodhizazen> nhandler: are the minutes not automagic on this channel ?

[01:12] <nhandler> [ACTION] Hellow to create wiki page for Young New Users Group

[01:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Hellow to create wiki page for Young New Users Group

[01:12] <Rocket2DMn> those arent minutes, those are just logs

[01:12] <Rocket2DMn> we dont really keep minutes

[01:12] <nhandler> bodhizazen: We have the MootBot minutes, but they are not usually complete

[01:12]  * Hellow is lost

[01:12] <bodhizazen> oic, lol

[01:12] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: The team reporting page has the minutes

[01:12] <Rocket2DMn> ah yeah nhandler , i forgot about that

[01:13] <bodhizazen> nhandler: you are doing a ton for the team

[01:13] <nhandler> :)

[01:13] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler is a BT monster

[01:13] <bodhizazen> are you sure you are not taking on too much ?

[01:13] <jamesrfla> +1 Rocket2DMn

[01:13] <bodhizazen> I do not want to see youburn out

[01:13] <Hellow> BT Monster = rawr

[01:13] <nhandler> bodhizazen: Neither do I. Which is one reason I am intentionally not taking all of the meeting actions ;)

[01:13] <bgs100> Hellow, lol

[01:14] <jamesrfla> I can help you out nhandler just tell me what to do if I can

[01:14] <nhandler> jamesrfla: Sure thing

[01:14] <nhandler> [VOTE] End the meeting?

[01:14] <MootBot> Please vote on:  End the meeting?.

[01:14] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[01:14] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[01:14] <Hellow> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from Hellow. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[01:14] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

[01:14] <jgoguen> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

[01:14] <drs305> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4

[01:14] <jamesrfla> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5

[01:14] <Vantrax> +1

[01:14] <cprofitt> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from cprofitt. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7

[01:14] <swoody> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8

[01:14] <ibuclaw> +1

[01:14] <MootBot> +1 received from ibuclaw. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9

[01:14] <Bodsda> -1

[01:14] <MootBot> -1 received from Bodsda. 9 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8

[01:14] <bodhizazen> +0

[01:14] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhizazen. 9 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 8

[01:15] <Bodsda> i wanna stay

[01:15] <Vantrax> lol

[01:15] <Hellow> lol

[01:15] <nhandler> +1

[01:15] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 10 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 9

[01:15] <Ash_R> +1

[01:15] <MootBot> +1 received from Ash_R. 11 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 10

[01:15] <duanedesign> +0

[01:15] <MootBot> Abstention received from duanedesign. 11 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 10

[01:15] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]

[01:15] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 1 against. 2 abstained. Total: 10

[01:15] <nhandler> The next meeting will take place two weeks from now on June 30th at 23:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting

[01:15] <Hellow> I have to wonder why we called a vote for that...

[01:15] <nhandler> #endmeeting
}}}
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
