{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[swoody]]</nowiki>
| (08/11 Meeting) <nowiki>[[FoldingAtHome|Folding@Home]]</nowiki> and the #ubuntu-folding channel
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Remove Beginners Team Calendar
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Drop ##beginners-classroom
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

=== Log ===

<pre>
[00:08] <Rocket2DMn> #startmeeting
[00:08] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:08. The chair is Rocket2DMn.
[00:08] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:08] <Rocket2DMn> Ok, bodhi hasn't shown up, so we'll start without him
[00:08] <Rocket2DMn> let's just run down the focus groups, hopefully he'll be here for the main agenda
[00:09] <Rocket2DMn> Development FG? I don't see paultag
[00:09] <Rocket2DMn> Education FG? I don't see any leads for them either
[00:09] <Rocket2DMn> IRC?
[00:10] <drs305> Nobody's around in August...
[00:10] <Rocket2DMn> Launchpad? Security? Stalking?
[00:10] <Rocket2DMn> jgoguen, YNU FG?
[00:10] <Raidsong> i think its dev
[00:10] <starcraftman> guess this is gonna be a quiet meeting...
[00:10] <jgoguen> Rocket2DMn: Not much to say ATM. We've got a bunch of users, thinking about a meeting soon :)
[00:11] <Rocket2DMn> cool jgoguen , don't wait to set one up, summer is starting to wind down for people
[00:11] <jgoguen> Rocket2DMn: We were thinking soon, next week or so
[00:12] <Rocket2DMn> Sounds good
[00:12] <Rocket2DMn> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:12] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:12] <Rocket2DMn> let's start with the main agenda then
[00:13] <Rocket2DMn> [TOPIC] Folding@Home and the #ubuntu-folding channel
[00:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Folding@Home and the #ubuntu-folding channel
[00:13] <Rocket2DMn> swoody, you're up
[00:13] <swoody> Thanks Rocket2DMn, I'll make this short for everyone :)
[00:13] <swoody> I just wanted to make a brief annoucement to everyone here about the Folding@Home project.
[00:13] <swoody> For those of you who don't know what Folding@Home is, it's a distributed computing project that was started by Stanford University.
[00:14] <swoody> F@H uses your computer's spare processing power to assist researchers in folding proteins.
[00:14] <swoody> The work that's being done by the F@H project is giving scientists a better understanding of how certain diseases develop, and can lead to cures for diseases such as Parkinson's, Huntington's, Alzheimers, and cancer amoung many others.
[00:14] <swoody> I feel that it's a very worthy project, and I also believe that this project ties in greatly with Ubuntu's philosiphy of giving back to the greater community.
[00:15] <swoody> For some more info on the project or to find out how you can help out, plese drop by our channel at #ubuntu-folding, or check out:
[00:15] <swoody> [LINK] https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome
[00:15] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome
[00:16] <swoody> and if there's no questions.....
[00:16] <drs305> Is there just one Ubuntu team now?
[00:16] <swoody> drs305:  ah, yes! The multiple teams that used to be are now united under Tem Ubuntu :)
[00:17] <swoody> Team Ubuntu**
[00:17] <drs305> ty
[00:17] <starcraftman> Only thing ya might want to add swoody is mentioning origami installer, very handy.
[00:18] <swoody> yes, thank you starcraftman :)
[00:18] <swoody> There are a number of ways to install the F@H client on your computer. Most of them are very simple (2 commands
[00:18] <swoody> ) and very painless :)
[00:19] <swoody> Anyone want to toss out anything else, or have any questions?
[00:19] <Raidsong> can you give us the commands?
[00:20] <swoody> to install origami it's simply 'sudo apt-get install origami'...
[00:21] <swoody> then to set it up would be "sudo origami install [-t TEAMNUMBER -u FOLDINGUSER ]"
[00:21] <starcraftman> For more information on the origami installer (including more advanced options see:
[00:21] <starcraftman> [LINK] https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome/origami
[00:21] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingAtHome/origami
[00:21] <swoody> ah, thank you starcraftman :)
[00:22] <swoody> and that should be about it then :)
[00:22] <starcraftman> swoody: no problem, always here to help.
[00:22] <Rocket2DMn> Cool project swoody , thank you for sharing
[00:22] <swoody> Again, if anyone has any questions, please feel free to drop by #ubuntu-folding
[00:22] <swoody> ty Rocket2DMn :)
[00:23] <Rocket2DMn> [TOPIC] Remove Beginners Team Calendar
[00:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  Remove Beginners Team Calendar
[00:23] <Raidsong> ill run this on both of my computers
[00:23] <nhandler> I can talk about this Rocket2DMn
[00:23] <Rocket2DMn> floor is yours nhandler
[00:23] <nhandler> Pretty much, we started using a separate calendar due to the closed nature of the old fridge (and because we had meetings in #ubuntuforums-beginners)
[00:23] <nhandler> Now, we use #ubuntu-meeting and the Fridge for our main meetings
[00:24] <nhandler> I see it as a waste of time duplicating this on our own calendar that not many people subscribe to
[00:24] <nhandler> If there are no objections, I would like to go ahead and get the BT calendar deleted
[00:24] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, let's get bodhi's final approval on that before we shut it down
[00:25] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Of course. But I would like to get a vote at this meeting as well
[00:25] <superbenny> is there really any work that goes into it? i dont see any reason why we cant just leave it there for people, such as myself who do use it
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> I also use it, perhaps we should just remove it from the wiki page?
[00:25] <nhandler> superbenny: Might I ask why you use that instead of the normal Fridge calendar?
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> gcal it sends email reminders
[00:26] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: The Fridge is a gcal now
[00:26] <superbenny> no idea, that was just the one on the wiki. also, is the fridge cal only bt items?
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> link?
[00:26] <nhandler> superbenny: No, it has items for all Ubuntu teams
[00:26] <superbenny> as of right now, I'm not really involved in much outside of the BT.
[00:26] <nhandler> [link] http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar
[00:26] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://fridge.ubuntu.com/calendar
[00:26] <starcraftman> Long as the fgs and main teem meetings are all consolidated into the fridge calendar I'm fine with it, means no duplication like I get now.
[00:26] <superbenny> so it just keeps useless events off of my calendar
[00:27] <nhandler> starcraftman: Most FG don't even use the BT calendar. However, I think it would be fine to have them use the Fridge calendar
[00:27] <superbenny> now, if there is someone who sits there and devotes more than 10 minutes to it, then its reasonable to delete it, but as far as i'm aware, its just an auto-repeating event every other tuesday
[00:28] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, can you schedule events on the fridge calendar that aren't held in this channel?
[00:28] <superbenny> in which case, no harm can come from leaving it as-is
[00:28] <nhandler> superbenny: As of a few weeks ago, it is auto-repeating. I have no issue leaving it like that. However, I have no plans on correcting it for the few instances we get off schedule (which happen around US holidays and such)
[00:28] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Yes
[00:28] <swoody> +1 if that is the case superbenny
[00:28] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: For example, we use it for classroom sessions that are in #ubuntu-classroom
[00:29] <nhandler> The Doc Team has also used it for meetings in #ubuntu-doc
[00:29] <Rocket2DMn> ok, shall we put it to a vote then?
[00:29] <nhandler> Sure
[00:30] <Rocket2DMn> are we voting to close it down, or just to remove it from the wiki page?
[00:30] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: I would make the vote to "stop using it". We would start referencing the Fridge on the wiki, and I (and other people) would stop updating the BT calendar
[00:31] <superbenny> sounds good to me.
[00:31] <Rocket2DMn> [VOTE] Stop using the BT Google Calendar and only use The Fridge instead?
[00:31] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Stop using the BT Google Calendar and only use The Fridge instead?.
[00:31] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:31] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:31] <nhandler> +1
[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:31] <andrew_46> +1
[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from andrew_46. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:31] <Rocket2DMn> 0
[00:31] <swoody> +1
[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:31] <starcraftman> +1
[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:31] <Raidsong> +1
[00:31] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: +0
[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from Raidsong. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:31] <superbenny> +1
[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from superbenny. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:31] <Rocket2DMn> +0
[00:31] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:32] <Rocket2DMn> any more votes?
[00:32] <duanedes1gn> +0
[00:32] <MootBot> Abstention received from duanedes1gn. 6 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:32] <Rocket2DMn> [ENDVOTE]
[00:32] <MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 6
[00:33] <Rocket2DMn> [AGREED] Stop using BT Google Calendar.  Use Fridge instead.
[00:33] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Stop using BT Google Calendar.  Use Fridge instead.
[00:33] <nhandler> Just as a note, only BT members should be participating in these votes
[00:33] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, you want the action to double check with bodhi and remove it from wiki?
[00:33] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: That is fine
[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> [ACTION] nhandler to check removal of GCal and remove from wiki
[00:34] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nhandler to check removal of GCal and remove from wiki
[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> I'll postpone the next agenda item since bodhi isn't here
[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> [TOPIC] Drop ##beginners-classroom
[00:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  Drop ##beginners-classroom
[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, you're up again
[00:35] <nhandler> We stopped using ##beginners-classroom in favor of #ubuntu-classroom a while ago
[00:35] <nhandler> This is why we did not create a #ubuntu-beginners-classroom when we renamed the team
[00:35] <nhandler> As a result, I see no reason to keep this unused channel open, and I propose dropping it
[00:36] <Rocket2DMn> How do we go about removing it?
[00:36] <Rocket2DMn> is it just a matter of not referencing it on the wiki anymore?
[00:36] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Bodhi would do a /msg ChanServ drop ##beginners-classroom
[00:36] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: I'm not even sure if it is referenced still on the wiki
[00:36] <Rocket2DMn> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups
[00:36] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups
[00:36] <Rocket2DMn> it's still listed there
[00:37] <swoody> nhandler:  The channel hasn't been used for anything recently?
[00:37] <nhandler> swoody: Correct
[00:37] <nhandler> We moved to #ubuntu-classroom
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> ok, does anybody want to voice any objections?
[00:37] <swoody> nhandler:  Ah, I don't forsee any objections then :)
[00:38] <starcraftman> I got nothing.
[00:38] <superbenny> nor do i...
[00:38] <Rocket2DMn> ok, I don't think we need to vote on that
[00:38] <Rocket2DMn> that's really a FG decision
[00:38] <nhandler> I'll talk to bodhi and get it dropped then
[00:39]  * nhandler -> dinner
[00:39] <Rocket2DMn> [ACTION] nhandler to talk to bodhi - remove ##beginners-classroom
[00:39] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nhandler to talk to bodhi - remove ##beginners-classroom
[00:39] <Rocket2DMn> [TOPIC] Other
[00:39] <MootBot> New Topic:  Other
[00:39] <Rocket2DMn> does anybody have anything else at all they want to discuss?  The floor is open.
[00:40] <starcraftman> Nope.
[00:40] <andrew_46> Nothing here
[00:40] <superbenny> nope
[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> Okie dokie then, there aren't any padawan nominations, so I think we're finished
[00:41] <starcraftman> Guess so.
[00:41] <Rocket2DMn> nobody has any last minute nominations right?
[00:41] <superbenny> cool
[00:41] <Rocket2DMn> Ok, thanks for coming everybody
[00:41] <Rocket2DMn> #endmeeting
[00:41] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:41.
</pre>
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
