{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox]]</nowiki>
| Follow up to <nowiki>[[http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-beginners@lists.launchpad.net/msg00074.html |Easwars email]]</nowiki> regarding meeting times.
|-
| <nowiki>[[starcraft.man]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[starcraft.man-Sandbox|New Join Us Page]]</nowiki> - New join us page, general discussion for feedback and vote to replace.
|-
| <nowiki>[[starcraft.man]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[HomepageBTTemplate|New Homepage Template]]</nowiki> - New Template for new members to use, feedback but no vote needed.
|-
| <nowiki>[[starcraft.man]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[starcraft.man-Sandbox-Secret|Small New Proposal]]</nowiki> - For Recruitment Team and a tiny entrance quiz. Discussion required.
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

=== Log ===

<pre>
[00:01] <bodhi_zazen> #startmeeting
[00:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:01. The chair is bodhi_zazen.
[00:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:01] <bodhi_zazen> who is here for the meeting ?
[00:01] <swoody> o/
[00:01] <Silver_Fox_> o/
[00:02] <drs305> o/
[00:02] <Rocket2DMn> o/
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> do we have any new members ?
[00:02] <ibuclaw> i/
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> [LLINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:03] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox_: poke
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Meeting Times
[00:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  Meeting Times
[00:04] <Silver_Fox_>  I think the time has been discussed in the mailing list for the last week and want to know what we are going to do.
[00:04] <Silver_Fox_> A few ideas were suggested,  lets vote on them
[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> LOL
[00:04] <ibuclaw> Silver_Fox_, we did have the idea of a Eurasian Meeting not so long ago.
[00:05] <ibuclaw> I think discussion on that stagnated
[00:05] <Silver_Fox_> That was rejected as it had lack of interest.   Now the team has grown some more and it has been raised again by new people.
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> I like the idea of alternate meeting times and I think we should try to accommodate them (alternate times)
[00:06] <Silver_Fox_> Can we not give it a trial?
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> The problem has been - lack of interest
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to see all the people interested in such an alternate time:
[00:06] <Joeb454> I'd be happy to attend the later meeting and email logs to somebody to chair a more eurasian meeting time
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> meet and set a time
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> I will make my best effort to attend
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> I suggest we specify a single contact person to coordinate such meetings with me
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> so that we may review issues before and after such meetings
[00:07] <swoody> I would support an alternate time, so as many members can be a part of the processes that go on with the team
[00:07] <starcraftman> Salutations, I just arrived :)
[00:08] <swoody> as many members as possible**
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> who here is interested in setting an alternate time for meetings ?
[00:09] <Silver_Fox_> o/
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> And I really do not see asking those in the Americas to meet at off times
[00:09] <Silver_Fox_> +1 bodhi_zazen
[00:09] <lukjad007> Hi
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox_ and Joeb454 want to start coordinating meetings then ?
[00:10] <Silver_Fox_> I am happy to do so bodhi_zazen
[00:10] <Joeb454> bodhi_zazen: can do - the later meetings suit me better, so I can pass logs to Silver_Fox_ :)
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> I am fine with that and I do not think it involves the whole team until such a time as you two have enough interest to have such meetings
[00:10] <swoody> o/
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> There is always an interest expressed, would be nice to see it come to fruition =)
[00:11] <ibuclaw> before you know it, we may branch off into two separate main groups ;)
[00:11] <ibuclaw> -beginners-eu and -beginners-us
[00:11] <ibuclaw> :P
[00:11] <Joeb454> lol
[00:11] <Silver_Fox_> This way it gets a chance.
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> [AGREED]Start alternate meetings, come to the team once it is starting to happen and again once it is happening =)
[00:11] <MootBot> AGREED received: Start alternate meetings, come to the team once it is starting to happen and again once it is happening =)
[00:11] <swoody> Now how would the voting work with two separate meeting times? Would we just tally all votes from both meetings before making a final decision?
[00:12] <ibuclaw> well ... that would depend on which meeting goes first
[00:12] <Silver_Fox_> We would vote on the same items.
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> swoody: you are putting the cart b4 the horse =)
[00:12] <swoody> bodhi_zazen, I'm just curious is all :)
[00:12] <swoody> didn't know if that had already been worked out
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> But yes, we would ideally have a coordination of votes
[00:13] <swoody> ok :)
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> don't get me wrong, I think alternate meeting times would be awesome, we can share an agenda
[00:14] <starcraftman> sounds all good to me, more participation is always better.
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> it is just that up to now, although there has been interest, when the rubber hits the pavement alternate meeting times have not happened
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> Once they start to happen it *should* be trivial to coordinate
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> any other comments on alternate meeting times ?
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> starcraftman: you ready ?
[00:15] <Silver_Fox_> O/
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> go Silver_Fox_
[00:15] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: I am, just been sitting quietly, I hope people glanced over my stuff in advance, it's mostly self-explanitory.
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> as long as your comments are  [ON TOPOC] ; no need for o/
[00:15] <Silver_Fox_> Would this infact mean we are going down to once a fortnight meetings per whole team or not?
[00:16] <Silver_Fox_> Sorry,  once a month.
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> I think once a month meetings are appropriate, in the long run once for the Americas and once for Euroasia
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> we can meet more often if needed
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] New Join Us Page
[00:17] <MootBot> New Topic:  New Join Us Page
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> starcraftman: has drafted a few pages
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> they look nice
[00:17] <starcraftman> Yup, took me some time, its all oriented to new members.
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> are people ready to change or do we need time for review / comments ?
[00:18] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: only thing I'
[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man/Sandbox
[00:18] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man/Sandbox
[00:18] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: nvm that comment, darn enter key.
[00:19] <starcraftman> Anyway, thats the new join us page I wrote up. I think its an improvement to the old one that was a bit skimpy. It details all the basic steps new members usually need to go through, and is written from common questions I've gotten.
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> comments ?
[00:20] <starcraftman> I basically just wanted feedback on anything should be improved, if everyone agrees they want to replace old one with it, then I will.
[00:20] <Rocket2DMn> That is a wealth of information man, but what a wall of text
[00:20]  * bodhi_zazen assumes most poeple are reading it for the first time =)
[00:20] <starcraftman> Also, wanted to know if there are any inactive mentors from masters list I should remove. Like say aj?
[00:20]  * ibuclaw is missing from the Masters column
[00:20] <lukjad007> starcraftman I skimmed it, and it looked good :)
[00:21] <Rocket2DMn> I think that can be slimmed down a fair amount, and some of the info can be spread to a couple of different pages on the our wiki area
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> aj should be removed until he is more active =)
[00:21] <ibuclaw> starcraftman, replace him with me ;)
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn: are you interested in helping with that ?
[00:21] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: I guess I can agree, your wall of text is mostly directed at tell us about ya section eh?
[00:22] <Rocket2DMn> lol
[00:22] <Rocket2DMn> id be happy to help with it, though it may have to wait a couple of weeks
[00:22] <swoody> I'm +1 on the new page
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> anybody else interested in helping with that page ?
[00:23] <swoody> it could be slimmed down a bit, but I think newcomers may find it nice to find all the pertinent info in one spot, too
[00:23] <ibuclaw> considering this was the old page : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/YNU
[00:23] <Rocket2DMn> I'm primarily concerned that all that information could be a bit overwhelming for new members
[00:23] <ibuclaw> +1 on new page
[00:23] <Rocket2DMn> that's why I said some of it can be spread around too
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> [IDEA] Put new page in place, to be revised by interested parties over next month ?
[00:23] <MootBot> IDEA received:  Put new page in place, to be revised by interested parties over next month ?
[00:24] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn:I'll look into moving some of the wiki creation information to its own page, I get what your saying and I think I know how to improve.
[00:24] <Rocket2DMn> Perhaps like a summary page similar to what we have now with some of this new stuff added in, then a detailed page for reference
[00:24] <Rocket2DMn> That reference page can be as useful for us as new members.  It's good for new members to come and ask us quesions in here too, it generates good conversation
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> and we can use it to help new users get integrated
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> anyway, just my 2 cents, sounds like others like it
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> [IDEA]Work on draft for next month ?
[00:25] <MootBot> IDEA received: Work on draft for next month ?
[00:25] <lukjad007> I like it, for one thing, it's comprehensive
[00:26] <swoody> +1 lukjad007
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> if we go this second route, who is willing to work on it over the next month ?
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> o/
[00:26] <swoody> it does cover almost everything a newcomer could ask, so I'm sure it'll come in very handy
[00:26] <lukjad007> I would be willing to help look it over :)
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> vote ?
[00:26] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: I am, I think I get what Rocket2DMn is saying, I'll try and fix it up a bit. I got plenty of time, my classes still pretty lax.
[00:27] <swoody> I'm not much of a writer, but would be willing to lend my advice and opinions
[00:27] <drs305> I have no time this month but can help out next if it still needs work.
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE]Review document for next month ?
[00:27] <MootBot> Please vote on: Review document for next month ?.
[00:27] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:27] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:27] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> starcraftman: I like it as a comprehensive docuement
[00:27] <starcraftman> my idea, so guess I'm abstaining.
[00:27] <starcraftman> +0
[00:27] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from starcraftman. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> I do not want to see new members get too caught up, we need to assimilate them =)
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:27] <Rocket2DMn> you can vote on your own idea starcraftman :)
[00:27] <swoody> +1
[00:27] <drs305> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:28] <lukjad007> +41
[00:28] <lukjad007> +1
[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjad007. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> any additional votes ?
[00:28] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: Maybe, but not really  needed, nobody seems to wanna vote down this idea :).
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:28] <MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 6
[00:28] <Rocket2DMn> cool, good work starcraftman , i can see you put a lot of work into it
[00:29] <swoody> yes, great work there starcraftman :)
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> Home page template is a great idea.
[00:29] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: I try, once it's all in your head, just kinda flows out. :)
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]New Home Page Template
[00:29] <MootBot> New Topic: New Home Page Template
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HomepageBTTemplate
[00:29] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HomepageBTTemplate
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> I would suggest:
[00:29] <starcraftman> There it is, I built it off mine, suggestions welcome.
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> 1. we include one or two additional examples for table lay out
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> 2. Put it in /Beginners/WikiTemplates
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> or some such
[00:30] <starcraftman> 2. That sounds good, I wasn't actually sure what to name it tbh.
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> Suggestions for name ?
[00:31] <starcraftman> long as its in the create new page template list for new people.
[00:31] <swoody> +1 starcraftman
[00:31] <Rocket2DMn> I like that starcraftman , my only suggestion would be to cut out some of the text at the top, templates don't need full explanations of how to do everything
[00:32] <swoody> I don't think the name will have that drastic of an effect on it, as much as just having it available to use for newcomers
[00:32] <starcraftman> 1. Is fine also, I was actually looking at more than one template, Silver_Fox_'s is nice and different enough, some might prefer it.
[00:32] <starcraftman> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Silver_Fox
[00:32] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Silver_Fox
[00:33] <Silver_Fox_> Ah,  beat me to it.
[00:33] <Rocket2DMn> +1 starcraftman , i was just thinking about that, we can have a couple of different template options.  Obviously they would be similar, but since people come with different experiences, they can find templates that match them best
[00:33] <starcraftman> Silver_Fox_: Too slow :)
[00:33] <Silver_Fox_> sorry starcraftman,  I was discussing matters of great importance with a fellow team member
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> OK, how about we put the template in place and starcraftman or Silver_Fox_ (or anyone else) can add to it ?
[00:34] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: agreed, I'm only one person, I just made one for example this time. I guess I could template up anyones who volunteered theirs or they could themselves if available to do it.
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE]Put Wiki Home Page Template in place ?
[00:34] <MootBot> Please vote on: Put Wiki Home Page Template in place ?.
[00:34] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:34] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:34] <swoody> +1
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> say /beginners/HomeTemplates
[00:34] <ibuclaw> +1
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from ibuclaw. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:34] <starcraftman> +1
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:34] <Rocket2DMn> +1 , location TBD
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:34] <st33med> +1
[00:34] <MootBot> +1 received from st33med. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> bodhi_zazen: I am more than happy to add to it sir. =]  I am getting quite good at wiki now.
[00:35] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: sure, though maybe call page HomeTemplate1 and number subsequent additions.
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> \o/
[00:35] <drs305> +1
[00:35] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> naw starcraftman
[00:35] <Rocket2DMn> I actually don't think the template necessarily needs to be inside our wiki area structure, it is a template available to anybody
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> we only need one page
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> with a few examples =)
[00:35] <swoody> We can always edit it in the future, as well. Add more tables/menus for people to be able to implement
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> any additional votes ?
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:35] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 8
[00:36] <Silver_Fox_> Wait starcraftman,  you think my wiki is good enough for a template?
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Membership
[00:36] <MootBot> New Topic:  Membership
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man/Sandbox/Secret
[00:36] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man/Sandbox/Secret
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> I agree we need to revitalize the membership process
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> I like the idea of having a few people "watching over" the process
[00:38] <starcraftman> Alright, last topic, I outlined proposal fairly clearly I think. MOTU do something similar, I also included nhandler's email for reference. I think it's half decent, and people can always just still jump on IRC and do things way we do now.
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> we used to have a dedicated Education Team to do this, but the education FG kind of grew into the UCLP
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> perhaps revamp a "Mentoring" team / FG ?
[00:40] <st33med> Nobody got that active in it
[00:40] <starcraftman> Shouldn't be too high maintenance once agreed on, already got swoody on board. When ml gets moved to new more public one we can use it for people to send in contact info, and quiz (if thats agreed on).
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> I like the quiz done "LIVE" on IRC
[00:41] <drs305> +1
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> How would it work with regards to the masters?
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> you get a better feel for people when they squirm
[00:41] <Rocket2DMn> +1 live quiz
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> if they submit written responses
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> 1. It takes more time
[00:41] <ibuclaw> 2. they can google it
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> 2. They can google and make themselves look good
[00:42] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: can do, its fairly short I suppose. Do people like the sample questions, I alternated between ones testing knowledge and ones checking interest.
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> I will look at your questions starcraftman
[00:42] <ibuclaw> bodhi_zazen, it's like telephone interviews over *just* posting your CV :)
[00:43] <st33med> LIVE from #ubuntu-beginners, its bodhi_zazen and the contestant, <insert contestant here>
[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> How about if you revamp a "masters" FG or some such ?
[00:43] <starcraftman> st33med: lol
[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> people interested in assisting new members get up to speed ?
[00:44] <Silver_Fox_> As always I am willing.
[00:44] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: so, have all masters on master page and hand ful of them responsible for management and oversight?
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> should be low maintenance, but it would help if people watch it =)
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> +1 starcraftman
[00:44] <Silver_Fox_> bodhi_zazen ^
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> We can elect "management" next month ?
[00:45] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: righto, shouldn't be too hard. Would ya want a separate masters fg mail list in place? Or simply use same one we moving to with nhandler?
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> Which should get us to ...
[00:45]  * bodhi_zazen is a strong believer in the unified theory of mailing lists
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> we only need additional ML if the one we have gets too active
[00:46] <Rocket2DMn> mailing lists: old school still rulez!
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]NEW MEMBERS
[00:46] <MootBot> New Topic: NEW MEMBERS
[00:46] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: righto then
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> do we have anyone up for membership this month
[00:46] <st33med> YAYAYAYAYAYYAY
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> thanks for all that work starcraftman
[00:46] <Rocket2DMn> none listed bodhi_zazen , i find it hard to believe with so many in our channel
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> I think the whole team appreciates your time on those pages
[00:47] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: No worries, everyones welcome :)
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn: we have been failing the new members
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> I was considering putting mine in for membership at the next meeting
[00:47] <Rocket2DMn> yeah bodhi_zazen , i know
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> pedor3005 ?
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> pedro3005 ?
[00:48] <ibuclaw> Hellow, meeting started 50 minutes ago ;)
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> any other last minute nominations ?
[00:48] <Hellow> haha
[00:48] <Hellow> I've been doing homework :P
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> Raidsong ?
[00:49] <starcraftman> lol Hellow
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> Pablo ?
[00:49] <Rocket2DMn> Silver_Fox_, is your padawan not ready?
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> anyone want to vote for anyone ? Second those nominations ?
[00:49] <Silver_Fox_> More or less Rocket2DMn
[00:49] <Silver_Fox_> He's just not here Rocket2DMn
[00:50] <Rocket2DMn> k, we should make a big effort to get lots of new members up for voting at the next meeting
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> any other team business ?
[00:50] <Silver_Fox_> o/
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox_:
[00:50] <st33med> I
[00:50] <ibuclaw> o/
[00:51] <st33med> I'd like to make a motion...
[00:51] <st33med> (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^ (>^.^)> <(^.^<) ^(^o^)^
[00:51] <Hellow> erm
[00:51] <Silver_Fox_> Well,  while we are here I would like to have the YNU FG's attention.  We need to arrange another meeting as the last one that was scheduled only I attended.
[00:51] <drs305> That's pretty focused, Silver_Fox_
[00:51] <Silver_Fox_> So pop by the channel #ubuntu-beginners-ynu
[00:51] <Silver_Fox_> Indeed.
[00:52] <st33med> YNU is...?
[00:52] <ibuclaw> Young New Users
[00:52] <Hellow> Young New Users
[00:52] <st33med> ah
[00:52] <ibuclaw> st33med, it was to help the main channel stay "child" free
[00:52] <ibuclaw> well ... just to help mature up the main channel a bit
[00:52] <starcraftman> ibuclaw: lol, like that'll ever happen.
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox_: I think interest in the YNY will wax and wane depending on maturity in the channel
[00:53] <st33med> What children are we talking about?
[00:53] <ibuclaw> starcraftman, before you came, it was needed at the time
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> you st33med =)
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> +1 bodhi_zazen
[00:53] <swoody> +1 ibuclaw
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> ibuclaw: any topic you have
[00:53]  * Rocket2DMn will always be a child at heart
[00:53] <st33med> so 18 year olds count as children, eh?
[00:53] <st33med> :D
[00:53] <starcraftman> +1 Rocket2DMn
[00:53] <ibuclaw> bodhi_zazen, yes
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> Rocket2DMn: Come join the team,  we have cake :)
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> st33med: Anything under 40 is but a child =)
[00:54] <Hellow> Rocket2DMn: And cookies.
[00:54] <starcraftman> Silver_Fox_: the cake is always a lie!
[00:54] <swoody> Silver_Fox_, ah, I'm there :)
[00:54] <ibuclaw> bodhi_zazen, just a quick question. I know I ask this every so often ;)
[00:54] <jgoguen> st33med: I think bodhi_zazen counts as children sometimes ;)
[00:54] <ibuclaw> What is the current progress of the Ubuntu Learning Project?
[00:54] <Rocket2DMn> jgoguen, s/sometimes/most-of-the-time
[00:54] <jgoguen> Rocket2DMn: Fair :)
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> The UCLP is up and recruiting
[00:54] <ibuclaw> bodhi_zazen, I may have some free time over the next fortnight.
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> come on bu #ubuntu-learning
[00:55] <Hellow> UCLP?
[00:55] <Rocket2DMn> I've seen you guys have meetings pretty regularly
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> we put some structure in place
[00:55] <Hellow> Ubuntu Community learning Project?
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/
[00:55] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/
[00:55] <st33med> Speaking of children, I once saw a person posting on how to make his ancient computer work with debian for his kid.
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> Any other topics ?
[00:55] <st33med> I thought it was nice
[00:55] <Hellow> o/
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> go Hellow
[00:56] <st33med> gogogogogo
[00:56] <Hellow> I would just like to mention that we have a few team members running for Ubuntu membership tomorrow at the Americas board meeting.
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> w00t !!!
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> who ?
[00:57] <Hellow> I believe that they deserve our full support.
[00:57] <drs305> when?
[00:57] <Hellow> bodhi_zazen: nhasian and Wiebhalus (I always misspell that)
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> I thought the meeting was yesterday
[00:57] <starcraftman> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas
[00:57] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas
[00:57] <starcraftman> For those wondering who/when ^
[00:58] <bodhi_zazen> thanks
[00:58] <bodhi_zazen> other topics ?
[00:58] <bodhi_zazen> 2 min left =)
[00:58]  * Hellow gets back to his homework
[00:59] <starcraftman> nope
[00:59] <bodhi_zazen> #endmeeting
[00:59] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:59.
</pre>
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
