{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting page for meeting of November 10, 2010 at 23:00:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ede7ea">Who
| What
|-
| cprofitt
| UDS-N blueprints and notes
|-
| duanedesign, cprofitt
| FG changes
|-
| duanedesign, cprofitt
| Membership changes
|-
| duanedesign, cprofitt
| Mentor changes
|-
| duanedesign
| Changing the wiki to fit the new theme
|-
| 
| 
|}

==== Log ====
<pre>
[00:00] <pedro3005> /o\  \o_ \o/
[00:00]  * phillw is here
[00:00] <cprofitt> please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:00] <cprofitt> for the meeting agenda
[00:00] <jledbetter> o/
[00:00] <cprofitt> yes jledbetter
[00:01] <jledbetter> Sorry, was waving along.
[00:01] <cprofitt> ok
[00:01] <duaneipho> my car broke down so I am not at home. I'll try and follow along and participate
[00:01] <cprofitt> for the record can all Beginners Team meeting attendees say here
[00:01] <pleia2> here
[00:01] <phillw> here
[00:01] <jledbetter> here
[00:01] <friTTe|> here
[00:01] <pedro3005> here
[00:01] <UndiFineD> here
[00:02] <mbergamo> here
[00:02] <duaneipho> here
[00:02] <cprofitt> anyone else?
[00:02] <aveilleux> here
[00:02] <nhandler> o/
[00:02] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:02] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:03] <cprofitt> alright... thanks all
[00:03] <cprofitt> [TOPIC] UDS-N Blueprints and Notes
[00:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  UDS-N Blueprints and Notes
[00:03] <cprofitt> duaneipho and I were both at UDS along with Darkwingduck
[00:04] <cprofitt> there were several things that came up in regards to the beginners team
[00:04] <cprofitt> the following were specs
[00:04] <cprofitt> [link]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Specs/NattyRoadmap/MembershipProposal
[00:04] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Specs/NattyRoadmap/MembershipProposal
[00:04] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Specs/NattyRoadmap/MentorsProposal
[00:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Specs/NattyRoadmap/MentorsProposal
[00:05] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Specs/NattyRoadmap/FocusGroupContainers
[00:05] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Specs/NattyRoadmap/FocusGroupContainers
[00:05] <cprofitt> I know you will not all have time to read these, but these are the ideas that the council has been working on
[00:05] <cprofitt> and the reason for some of the changes that will be discussed tonight
[00:06] <cprofitt> there were also some other blueprints that the BT is part of, but are not the lead team on.
[00:06] <cprofitt> The 'core' summary is that there is a desire from the community leaders and some other teams to utilize the BT as an on-ramp for people to become involved in the community
[00:07] <cprofitt> Jono Bacon spent an entire session at UDS-N on Thursday discussing the BT and what the team has accomplished
[00:07] <cprofitt> he kept saying "great work"
[00:07] <cprofitt> so you all should feel very proud of what the team (you) have accopmplished
[00:07] <nhandler> Yep. Great work everyone.
[00:07] <duaneipho> +1
[00:08] <phillw> +1
[00:08] <cprofitt> the overall goal is to align ourselves a little tighter with existing Ubuntu teams
[00:08] <cprofitt> this is expressed in how we are re-defining the Focus Groups
[00:08] <cprofitt> membership process and mentor approval process
[00:09] <cprofitt> You may have noticed significant changes to our Wiki as we prepared for this meeting
[00:09] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure
[00:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure
[00:09] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FGCreation
[00:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FGCreation
[00:09] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership
[00:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership
[00:10] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
[00:10] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
[00:10] <cprofitt> in addition the header was tweaked and the colors changed slightly
[00:10] <nhandler> (and lots of emails if you subscribe to BeginnersTeam/.*)
[00:11] <cprofitt> the basic part of the change is that, in general, the BT FGs will be aligned with an associated Ubuntu team
[00:11] <cprofitt> bugs-FG = Bug Control, Testing, and QA
[00:12] <cprofitt> at some point if there is enough interest in one of those sub-topics and the necessary 'mentors' we would form another FG
[00:12] <cprofitt> but that team is an example of how we try to align with existing team(s)
[00:12] <cprofitt> does anyone have any questions about that part of FGs?
[00:13] <nhandler> Nope
[00:13] <cprofitt> ok...
[00:13] <cprofitt> [TOPIC] Membership
[00:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Membership
[00:13] <cprofitt> We also needed to really nail down membership
[00:14] <phillw> in what way?
[00:14] <cprofitt> at present members are those people who have demonstrated that they are knowledgable in an area of the Ubuntu project
[00:14] <cprofitt> that could be development or advocacy
[00:15] <cprofitt> they will also have proven that they are mature individuals who work well with others and are dedicated to giving something back to the community and beginners
[00:15] <cprofitt> they do not need to be experts
[00:15] <cprofitt> just knowledgeable
[00:15] <cprofitt> any questions there?
[00:15] <phillw> Nope
[00:15] <PabloRubianes> no
[00:15] <friTTe|> no
[00:16] <cprofitt> The process is also detailed on the Join Us Page
[00:16] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership
[00:16] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership
[00:16] <cprofitt> I hope that this is very clear to prospective members
[00:16] <cprofitt> There are two membership cases...
[00:17] <cprofitt> an Ubuntu user that is knowledgeable, but has not contrinbuted to the Ubuntu Project before
[00:17] <cprofitt> and an Ubuntu user who has contrinbuted before to other teams, but now wants to help mentor people
[00:17] <cprofitt> In the first case the person will have to prove they have made contributions and are knoweldgeable
[00:18] <cprofitt> this might take 1 month or 12 months (long long time)
[00:18] <cprofitt> we do not rush the process
[00:18] <cprofitt> the second case would be a special case
[00:18] <cprofitt> such as Carlos (hgghd)
[00:18] <cprofitt> who is a long standing member of bug-control, testing and QA
[00:19] <cprofitt> in those cases these people will have a body of work that can be judged
[00:19] <cprofitt> and a history of working with the community that can also be looked at
[00:19] <cprofitt> in either case we have two choices
[00:19] <cprofitt> 1)  wait until an official team meeting to vote on the new members
[00:19] <cprofitt> or
[00:20] <cprofitt> 2) have the council vote on the members with input live, wiki and email based on each prospecitve member
[00:20] <phillw> +1 for 2)
[00:20] <PabloRubianes> +1 for 1
[00:20] <cprofitt> I would like to have the team vote on that idea the next time after we discuss it on the mailing list
[00:20] <cprofitt> I see positives and negatives for both
[00:21] <cprofitt> and think we should all think on it
[00:21] <cprofitt> any questions on membership?
[00:21] <cprofitt> [topic] Mentors
[00:21] <MootBot> New Topic:  Mentors
[00:22] <nhandler> I just wanted to note that even for experienced people, we still want to make sure they are integrated well with the team
[00:22] <cprofitt> +1 nhandler
[00:22] <PabloRubianes> good
[00:22] <PabloRubianes> I thing
[00:22] <phillw> +1
[00:22] <friTTe|> yeah
[00:22] <PabloRubianes> One thing sorry?
[00:22] <UndiFineD> +1 for 1
[00:23] <cprofitt> At UDS we received a couple of comments about some of our mentors not being 'knwoledgeable' in certain areas
[00:23] <cprofitt> PabloRubianes: go ahead
[00:23] <PabloRubianes> people who don't know and never contribute to the Ubuntu project... are going to be integrated till are electable right?
[00:23] <cprofitt> PabloRubianes: yes -- they will be prospective members that we work with
[00:24] <PabloRubianes> good
[00:24] <cprofitt> we will work as long as they keep trying
[00:24] <cprofitt> work with them
[00:24] <PabloRubianes> I think that should be clear for thouse people to make them work hard
[00:24]  * cprofitt nods
[00:24] <cprofitt> ok... back to mentors
[00:24] <phillw> agrees
[00:24] <cprofitt> we had some comments that are mentors were not knowledgeable
[00:25] <cprofitt> the incidents were isolated, but we agreed that we should have a tighter control on 'mentors'
[00:25] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
[00:25] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
[00:25] <cprofitt> you will notice a few things in the mentors page
[00:25] <cprofitt> there are now rows with time zones
[00:26] <cprofitt> I would appreciate folks modifying their entry to fit their time zone
[00:26] <pleia2> that's great
[00:26] <cprofitt> also there is a column for Focus Group / Qualifications
[00:26] <cprofitt> if you have no qualification area -- you are a general mentor
[00:26] <cprofitt> and you can help people join the BT
[00:27] <cprofitt> we all know how that works :-)
[00:27] <nhandler> Looks like the time zone column is messed up
[00:27] <cprofitt> if, you want to be a bug-FG mentor, you would need to get some testimonials from the bug-control team or another associated team
[00:27] <jledbetter> I think the time zones are subheader rows nhandler
[00:28] <cprofitt> time zones are rows that cover the entire table
[00:28] <nhandler> Well, we should probably make it a bit more clear that they are headers, but we can fix that later ;)
[00:29] <cprofitt> to become a bug-control FG mentor you would apply to the council
[00:29] <duaneipho> sorry for the flacky connection. what page we talking about?
[00:29] <cprofitt> you would get either the associated team lead to give you a testimonial or two other associated team members
[00:29] <friTTe|> duaneipho: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
[00:30] <duaneipho> thank you
[00:30] <cprofitt> the council would then vote to approve you or work further with you to improve your level of knowledge
[00:30] <phillw> cprofitt: as PhilBull has made me a wiki administrator, can I add wiki to my area?
[00:30] <cprofitt> No.
[00:30] <cprofitt> you would apply to the doc-FG to be a mentor
[00:30] <phillw> okies
[00:30] <cprofitt> you would have PhilBull add a testimonial to your page
[00:31] <cprofitt> the council would then talk with you and make a decision
[00:31] <phillw> cprofitt: it's already there :)
[00:31] <cprofitt> it is not always enough to be made a member of a team
[00:31] <phillw> np
[00:32] <cprofitt> we need to ensure that the associated team feels you have enough knowledge to 'teach' and the BT council wants to ensure your temperment is suitable to teaching as well
[00:32] <cprofitt> being a mentor can be trying at times
[00:32] <cprofitt> so it is not knowledge alone that makes a mentor
[00:32] <phillw> +1 :)
[00:32] <cprofitt> any questions on mentors?
[00:33] <cprofitt> ok
[00:33] <cprofitt> [topic] changing the wiki to fit the new theme
[00:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  changing the wiki to fit the new theme
[00:34] <cprofitt> duaneipho: you have the floor
[00:34] <duaneipho> I have think we have done a pretty good job of that
[00:35] <duaneipho> has everyone tried the page out with the new theme?
[00:35] <nhandler> My only concern is that the theme might look ok in the light theme, but right now, it looks rather "bad" in the kubuntu theme
[00:35] <PabloRubianes> yes
[00:35] <cprofitt> I wish there was a way to have two different wiki codes for each theme
[00:35] <duaneipho> nhandler we might consider looking at the all white menus
[00:35] <cprofitt> but for now that is an issue
[00:36] <nhandler> duaneipho: I think that might be nice.
[00:36] <cprofitt> we can certainly keep trying to work on it
[00:36] <duaneipho> not as neat as what we have but more theme agnostic
[00:36] <cprofitt> right now our menus are grey
[00:36] <cprofitt> and the side is grey
[00:37] <cprofitt> [ACTION] cprofitt and duaneipho will create a test header page for different color combos to be tested
[00:37] <MootBot> ACTION received:  cprofitt and duaneipho will create a test header page for different color combos to be tested
[00:37] <nhandler> cprofitt: They have definitely gotten better (than what they were the other day), but the purple and orange don't go well with the blue
[00:37] <duaneipho> I agree
[00:38] <cprofitt> any more on the theme -- or just a desire to try and make them better?
[00:38] <cprofitt> ok
[00:38] <cprofitt> [TOPIC] New Member Nominations
[00:38] <MootBot> New Topic:  New Member Nominations
[00:38] <cprofitt> We have two tonight
[00:38] <duaneipho> yeah that is it. it was actually left over topic from last month
[00:39] <cprofitt> the first is bioterror mentored by phillw
[00:39] <cprofitt> bioterror is out due to family illness
[00:39] <cprofitt> phillw: would you like to speak on your mentees behalve?
[00:39] <duaneipho> oh no
[00:39] <phillw> he does send his apologies.
[00:39] <duaneipho> can we post his wiki
[00:39] <nhandler> cprofitt: So you want to process these in the old style?
[00:39] <cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/bioterror
[00:40] <cprofitt> for now yes nhandler
[00:40] <cprofitt> team vote
[00:40] <cprofitt> until we have time to consider the proposal put forth tonight
[00:40] <phillw> He's been on today, but 2AM was too big an ask for him
[00:40] <cprofitt> would anyone else like to give a testimonial for bioterror?
[00:41] <friTTe|> he has a great knowledge in different things
[00:41] <phillw> cprofitt: I believe hobgoblin also sent a mail to mailing list.
[00:41] <friTTe|> always seem to know the answers
[00:42] <cprofitt> [VOTE] To accept bioterror as a Ubuntu Beginners Team Member
[00:42] <MootBot> Please vote on:  To accept bioterror as a Ubuntu Beginners Team Member.
[00:42] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:42] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:42] <duaneipho> hobgoblin testimonial was likely from his work in ubuntu-beginners
[00:42] <phillw> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from phillw. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:42] <nhandler> +0
[00:42] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:42] <duaneipho> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from duaneipho. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:42] <friTTe|> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from friTTe|. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:42] <UndiFineD> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from UndiFineD. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:42] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:42] <cprofitt> +0
[00:42] <MootBot> Abstention received from cprofitt. 5 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:43] <cprofitt> any more votes?
[00:43] <duaneipho> I think we forgot to mention voting was for members:)
[00:43]  * aveilleux isn't a member yet so she can't vote
[00:43] <cprofitt> any more votes?
[00:43] <cprofitt> [ENDVOTE]
[00:43] <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 5
[00:44] <cprofitt> [agreed] bioterror is now a UBT member
[00:44] <MootBot> AGREED received:  bioterror is now a UBT member
[00:44] <duaneipho> so is that 3 for
[00:44] <cprofitt> the next candidate is jledbetter with myself as a mentor
[00:44] <cprofitt> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jledbetter
[00:44] <pedro3005> damn, missed it
[00:44] <cprofitt> jledbetter: would you like to address the members?
[00:44] <duaneipho> yaa
[00:44] <jledbetter> cprofitt, Thank you. Yes.
[00:46] <duaneipho> i think jledbetter would make a good member. always catch her giving help when possible.
[00:46] <cprofitt> I would like to add that jledbetter has been active in the community by participating remotely with UDS, attending linux shows, presenting in OpenWeek and with Ubuntu Women
[00:46] <jledbetter> Hello everyone. I'm jledbetter, and as you can see, I love to code :) I'm hoping to help answer the question "I do X language and want to contribute. How can I?" I've been a member of Ubuntu-Women and my LoCo and am holding my first Ubuntu Hour in a few weeks. I have been interviewed and share my love for Ubuntu and the community. I blog and hope to do screencasts. Whatever I can to help out :)
[00:46] <cprofitt> She is also involved with a project I think we should also consider called the 100 user project
[00:46] <jledbetter> duaneipho, Thank you :)
[00:46] <cprofitt> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/100UsersProject
[00:46] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/100UsersProject
[00:46] <phillw> excellent :)
[00:47] <duaneipho> remote participated at uds and always violunteering for stuff.
[00:47] <PabloRubianes> Great!
[00:47] <nhandler> jledbetter: Lanuage of choice ?
[00:47] <jledbetter> Yes, have my action items from UDS and very excited about them :)
[00:47] <cprofitt> In my opinion she has integrated very well with our team and would be a good asset as a UBT member
[00:47] <jledbetter> nhandler, Java at work but learning Python.
[00:47]  * nhandler won't hold that against her
[00:48]  * cprofitt smiles
[00:48] <duaneipho> lol
[00:48] <jledbetter> nhandler, Appreciated ;) Gotta pay the bills.
[00:48] <cprofitt> no language ware allowed
[00:48] <cprofitt> :-)
[00:48] <jledbetter> Hehe.
[00:48] <cprofitt> anyone else have any questions for jledbetter
[00:48] <duaneipho> java got a lot cooler now that apple has dropped it :)
[00:48] <PabloRubianes> nope let's vote :-)
[00:49] <cprofitt> [VOTE] To accept jledbetter as a Ubuntu Beginners Team Member
[00:49] <MootBot> Please vote on:  To accept jledbetter as a Ubuntu Beginners Team Member.
[00:49] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:49] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:49] <phillw> +1
[00:49] <cprofitt> +1
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from phillw. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:49] <pleia2> +1
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from cprofitt. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:49] <pedro3005> +1
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from pedro3005. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:49] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:49] <duaneipho> +1
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from duaneipho. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:49] <nhandler> +1
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:49] <cprofitt> anymore votes?
[00:49] <duaneipho> woot!
[00:49] <friTTe|> +1
[00:49] <MootBot> +1 received from friTTe|. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:50] <UndiFineD> +1
[00:50] <MootBot> +1 received from UndiFineD. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:50] <cprofitt> anymore votes?
[00:50] <cprofitt> [ENDVOTE]
[00:50] <MootBot> Final result is 9 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 9
[00:50] <cprofitt> [agreed] jledbetter is accepted as an UBT member
[00:50] <MootBot> AGREED received:  jledbetter is accepted as an UBT member
[00:50] <cprofitt> congrats jledbetter
[00:50] <PabloRubianes> congrats jledbetter
[00:50] <jledbetter> Yay! Thank you everyone :)
[00:50] <nhandler> Congratulations and welcome to the team jledbetter
[00:50] <cprofitt> as there are no other topics I will close with the following brief comments
[00:51] <duaneipho> congrats jledbetter and bioterror
[00:51] <cprofitt> please remember to contribute to our meeting planning by adding topics to the meeting page and discussing them on the mailing list
[00:51] <cprofitt> yes, congrats to bioterror as you and your family hopefully get better
[00:51] <cprofitt> #endmeeting
[00:51] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:51.
[00:51] <cprofitt> thanks everyone!!
[00:52] <PabloRubianes> I would like to congrat the Council for the great work!
[00:52] <cprofitt> Excellent meeting
[00:52] <duaneipho> yes definetly we need to take advantage of ml
[00:52] <phillw> very informative :)
[00:52] <cprofitt> if anyone would like to discuss anything I will be available for open discussion in our team channel
[00:52] <head_victim> Well run meeting, first BT I've sat in on.
[00:52] <cprofitt> #ubuntu-beginners-team
[00:52] <cprofitt> thanks head_victim
[00:52] <cprofitt> good to have you sit in with us
[00:52] <head_victim> I was afk for the first 30 minutes but caught up for the voting.
[00:53] <phillw> cprofitt: our head of dev was on earlier I'll catch up with him later.
[00:53] <friTTe|> sorry bout the voting i wasnt supposed to, first meeting and the AM is to blame
[00:54] <phillw> friTTe|: your mentor will flog you later.
[00:54] <friTTe|> yeah
</pre>

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
