{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#DFDFC3">Who
| What
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 1 - Start of Meeting etc.
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 2 - Let's get this team Back On Track!!!
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 3 - Who's Still around.
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 4 - Ideas/suggestions and Q&A session.
|-
| zkriesse
| Topic 5 -
|}

=== Agenda Links and Notes ===
Meeting was held with the purpose of reviving the BT Wiki FG, meeting has been a success in this matter.

== Meeting Agreements ==

'''Topic 1: Start of Meeting etc.'''
* Meeting was started, show of hands from those present, etc.

'''Topic 2: Let's get this team Back On Track!!!'''
* Revived the SoD Project, following statement from last meeting still applies. 

''This project covers both the Ubuntu Team Wiki and the Help.Ubuntu/community site, it was decided that the SoD Project would focus on updating the Help.Ubuntu/community site more than the Team Wiki. We'll still cover both just one more than the other...''

'''Topic 3: Who's Still around.'''
* Just a section of seeing who of the team is still active etc.

'''Topic 4: Ideas/suggestions and Q&A session.'''
* Questions were previously answered in previous topics, meeting was subsequently ended.

== Meeting Log ==
<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[12:59:44] <zkriesse> Ok, welcome to the BT WIki Focus Group Meeting
[12:59:55] <zkriesse> Been a while since we've had one of these I know but that is changing
[13:00:17] <zkriesse> If the wiki will cooperate I shall have a meeting agenda lol
[13:00:49] * MH0 hopes the wiki aint playing up
[13:00:56] * MH0 gets the boot :P
[13:01:02] <UndiFineD> plenty of bugs in the wiki
[13:01:12] <zkriesse> [Link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Docs#Meetings
[13:01:19] <zkriesse> There's the agenda for the meeting
[13:01:29] <zkriesse> Ok, first topic!
[13:01:52] <zkriesse> [TOPIC] Topic 1 - Start of meeting, show of hands etc.
[13:02:21] <zkriesse> Ok, so....welcome to the meeting, glad you're here, if yo could just toss out your name and say "Im here!" or something that'd be great!
[13:02:36] <MH0> Im Here o/
[13:02:43] <UndiFineD> something that is great
[13:02:54] <zkriesse> UndiFineD: Joker....
[13:03:07] <zkriesse> collinp: You here for the meeting too?
[13:03:18] <collinp> Somewhat.
[13:03:22] <zkriesse> Yay!
[13:03:32] <zkriesse> Ok, well...moving on then
[13:03:45] <zkriesse> [TOPIC] Topic 2 - Time to get the team back on track...
[13:04:40] <zkriesse> Alright, as of late the BT has been going through some restructuring so I've been loathe to make any sudden movements which could possibly upset everything...but now that the boat is stable well, time to get stuff moving again!
[13:05:24] <zkriesse> Since we're almost into Spring (At least we dang well better be...too cold for me :P) I'd like for us to start getting prepared for the Summer of Documentation project
[13:05:57] <zkriesse> It's a great project, one which is fun, and awesome as it helps do a few things
[13:06:31] <zkriesse> Helps get the Wiki cleaned up and maintained, AND helps those who are interesed in wiki/doc work to learn more about the wiki and how the innards of it works
[13:06:59] <zkriesse> Any suggestions for a jump start to the wiki fg?
[13:07:24] <MH0> Hmm... So for the Summer of oc project
[13:07:40] <MH0> What will happen, all the unedited pages get deleted or?
[13:07:45] <zkriesse> We will be working more closely with the Ubuntu Documentation Team this year, helping them train new recruits, taking on some of the ones they need to have trained, and overall easing of their workload
[13:08:30] <zkriesse> MH0: Good question, the Summer of Documentation Project is basically the cleaning up/editing/and yes, deleting of old, forgotten pages on the help.ubuntu.com/community and wiki.ubuntu.com pages
[13:08:57] <MH0> Can we start now or is there a perticular date for it?
[13:09:30] <zkriesse> Well the "Summer of Doc" implies that it starts in the summer but the cleaning and maintaining of the wiki is a constant battle
[13:09:50] <zkriesse> So while there isn't a "Start Date" perce, there is a big "party" for the start of the project
[13:09:56] <zkriesse> Usually on the first day of summer or that
[13:09:58] <MH0> What priority pages will require cleanup?
[13:10:14] <zkriesse> Thats another good question
[13:10:46] <zkriesse> If you take a look at, https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag
[13:11:08] <zkriesse> You'll see that it lists a huge amount of "tags" that can be put on the help.ubuntu.com/community pages
[13:11:18] <zkriesse> If you don't know what the whole "Tag" thing is don't worry
[13:11:28] <zkriesse> That is easily explained and learned...
[13:11:35] <MH0> I know Tagging :)
[13:11:55] <zkriesse> On each page you can tag a page, and based upon the tag it will require less or more attention
[13:12:24] <MH0> So the most tagged + main pages are priority?
[13:12:27] <zkriesse> This is also where I kinda introduced a bug system for this whole thing
[13:12:33] <zkriesse> It can depend
[13:12:54] <zkriesse> But usually yes, tagged pages have been truly recognized as "Needing Cleaning" or etc
[13:13:15] <phillw> zkriesse:
[13:13:23] <zkriesse> phillw: ?
[13:13:37] <phillw> this may come as a flood, but from the email list...
[13:13:39] <phillw> > Over the last month or so i have been using the Recent Pages page
[13:13:40] <phillw> >?https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecentChanges?max_days=7?
[13:13:40] <phillw> 
[13:13:40] <phillw> Hi
[13:13:40] <phillw> If is a persistant problem you can evaluate to introduce a TexCha [1] or
[13:13:40] <phillw> added in wikiconfig.py more range ip in hosts_deny = [ ]
[13:13:40] <phillw> In italian wiki we exclude some chinese range ip.
[13:14:11] <zkriesse> !pastebin | phillw
[13:14:12] <ubottu> phillw: For posting multi-line texts into the channel, please use http://paste.ubuntu.com | To post !screenshots use http://imagebin.org/?page=add | !pastebinit to paste directly from command line | Make sure you give us the URL for your paste - see also the channel topic.
[13:14:58] <zkriesse> Ok, when I mentioned "Bug System" i'm sure some of you were like "Bugs???? For a wiki page? Seriously?"
[13:15:07] <phillw> it is about vandalised pages, I'm sorry that I can not be more active, I'm still on duty shift as my bar staff has a poorly son.
[13:15:19] <zkriesse> phillw: It's fine phillw
[13:15:24] <zkriesse> phillw: Appreciate the notice
[13:15:56] <zkriesse> Well yes, I was and am serious...I introduced a bug system on the BT Wiki LP page last year for tracking who edits what pages for the SOD (Summer of Documentation) project
[13:15:59] <zkriesse> If you go to Well yes, I was and am serious...I intro
[13:16:01] <zkriesse> dangit
[13:16:01] <MH0> to bad there want a request for adminship becuase I would clearly block vandals ect.
[13:16:23] <zkriesse> MH0: it takes much time and progress to become a Wiki Admin
[13:16:28] <MH0> Yeah
[13:16:31] <zkriesse> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-wiki-sod
[13:16:34] <MH0> I fully understand that
[13:16:43] <zkriesse> If you look at that page you'll see some bugs that are listed
[13:16:55] <zkriesse> Those are old but a very good example of what I'm speaking about
[13:17:59] <MH0> Okies
[13:18:08] <MH0> So when would new bugs apper?
[13:18:13] <MH0> *appear
[13:18:15] <zkriesse> When you edit a page on the wiki for the SoD project I usually ask that you go to that page and file a bug...List the Wiki/Community Help page URL, the nature of the "Bug" (General Cleanup, complete overhaul, spell checking/edits, etc) and if it's been triaged, or if it's in progress
[13:19:04] <MH0> So as we look around
[13:19:13] <MH0> We can tag pages for SOD?
[13:19:15] <zkriesse> If that doesn't make sense, please...ask and I'll explain in more detail
[13:19:17] <zkriesse> Yes
[13:19:27] <zkriesse> If it's an edit for the Summer of Documentation project do that
[13:19:31] <zkriesse> Otherwise do not
[13:19:38] <zkriesse> This is just for the SoD project alone
[13:19:46] <MH0> zkriesse: It didnt make sence
[13:19:48] <phillw> zkriesse: you will getting two extra people for the next SOD, possibly 3 :)
[13:19:56] <zkriesse> phillw: Rad my man
[13:20:05] <MH0> What pages are under sod?
[13:20:19] <zkriesse> All wiki/community help pages
[13:20:25] <phillw> any page that needs updating
[13:20:28] <zkriesse> Ok, lemme say it this way
[13:20:42] <MH0> oh so all help.ubuntu.com?
[13:20:57] <zkriesse> help.ubuntu.com/COMMUNITY
[13:21:00] <zkriesse> and wiki.ubuntu.com
[13:21:05] <MH0> Yeah
[13:21:43] <MH0> Duh I amskign too many Q's
[13:21:57] <MH0> So when will the switchover to the new theme take?
[13:22:07] <zkriesse> When the SoD project starts, and say, Bobby wants to edit help.ubuntu.com/community/examplepage for the SoD project, he would file a bug on the https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-wiki-sod page, list the page URL, the nature of the bug/edit, and then list if it's been triaged, work in progress, etc
[13:22:12] <MH0> on help.ubuntu.com
[13:22:22] <zkriesse> That is a question which I have no answer atm
[13:22:46] <MH0> Triaged = Ready for SoD to work on?
[13:23:17] <zkriesse> Triaged is it's been taken care of
[13:23:22] <zkriesse> Or is being worked on
[13:23:28] <phillw> it may be worth mentioning that currently the italics is not working on the new scheme
[13:23:59] <MH0> pI noticed
[13:24:06] <MH0> phillw: ^^
[13:24:13] <phillw> the bug has been assigned to AlanBell
[13:24:18] <zkriesse> Or you can do "In Progress, Fix Committed, Confirmed, Invalid, Incomplete, Fix Released"
[13:24:30] <zkriesse> Those are the main ones I request ya use
[13:24:37] <UndiFineD> so we need more tagging, bugfiling and fixups
[13:24:40] <zkriesse> But if in doubt contact me or someone else who's done one
[13:24:57] <zkriesse> UndiFineD: BTW I got your request to join, pm me after meeting and we'll discuss it
[13:25:06] <UndiFineD> :)
[13:25:15] <MH0> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PhpBB2 << This will be Outdated?
[13:25:29] <MH0> Its now PhpBB3 isnt it?
[13:26:14] <zkriesse> Well I imagine that some use PhpBB2 still so it's not current
[13:26:15] <phillw> MH0: some people still run it, but phpbb3 is the current version.
[13:26:25] <zkriesse> But neither is it outdated
[13:26:46] <MH0> Marked as Cleanup?
[13:27:11] <zkriesse> It would just be good to leave the page/check it for errors, and put an notice on the page either at the top or the bottom that phpBB3 is the current version and that it's page can be found at "foo"
[13:27:17] <phillw> MH0: the page would simply need a mention that there is now phpbb3 and a link.
[13:28:08] <zkriesse> After that it'd be fine to leave
[13:28:21] <MH0> zkriesse: Need to learn these TAAAGGGS off by heart :P
[13:28:30] <zkriesse> Just bookmark the page
[13:28:49] <zkriesse> As each tag links to a separate page with all the pages that have been tagged with that particular tag
[13:29:00] <MH0> Okies
[13:29:14] <MH0> Got the 2 wiki ninjas with me ;D
[13:29:37] <MH0> So, Anything else I would need to do as per SoD?
[13:29:45] <zkriesse> And if i page has been marked for removal OR you think it should be removed, don't do ANYTHING without first consulting phillw or myself
[13:30:27] <zkriesse> MH0: Just the usual after that, stay safe and curteous in editing as it's other peoples work that you're changing, make sure you edit correctly and always follow wiki guidelines
[13:30:34] <phillw> +1 I promised Phil Bull that I will retain a copy on my system and my server.
[13:31:01] <zkriesse> And always, ALWAYS talk to me or phillw if yo have a question
[13:31:07] <MH0> It says before adding Tags I need to consult Doc team?
[13:31:28] <zkriesse> Yes..you always should....or you can ask me or phillw and we'll find out for you
[13:31:38] <zkriesse> Which is why we hang out in #ubuntu-doc
[13:31:43] <phillw> MH0: yes you do need to do so.
[13:31:46] <MH0> /joinign
[13:31:52] <MH0> Gah! keyboard
[13:32:05] <zkriesse> phillw: BTW can I have you join #ubuntu-beginners-wiki ?
[13:32:18] <zkriesse> That's pretty much topic 2
[13:32:28] <zkriesse> Before I jump onto topic 3 any questions?
[13:32:52] <MH0> It only took 20 mins *chuckle*
[13:32:53] <phillw> zkriesse: ....... yeah I will, but there is only so much of me to around the teams.
[13:33:04] <zkriesse> phillw: I just like to have yo there is all
[13:34:05] <zkriesse> [TOPIC] Topic - 3 Whos still around?
[13:34:09] <UndiFineD> o/
[13:34:19] <MH0> o/ Im new, In a way
[13:34:21] <zkriesse> I figured i'd ask...is anyone around from last year in the team?
[13:34:31] <zkriesse> MH0: Yes...you're very new
[13:34:55] <phillw> zkriesse: done, and added to autojoin
[13:35:11] <zkriesse> phillw: Ty my good man
[13:35:17] <UndiFineD> and for me the same as phillw is having
[13:36:05] <zkriesse> Ok....i gues on to topic four then
[13:36:38] <zkriesse> [TOPIC] Topic 4 - Ideas/Suggestions and Q&A
[13:37:22] <zkriesse> I think the topic speaks for itself, any ideas? Bring em up...any suggestions? We buy those too...and we always sell Q&A
[13:38:42] <zkriesse> Anything? Anything at all?
[13:40:27] <UndiFineD> no you were quite clear :)
[13:40:27] <zkriesse> Well then I guess I shall end it the meeting
[13:40:56] <zkriesse> Thanks all for showing, I appreciate you coming and all the questions...afterwards ya can find me in #ubuntu-beginners-wiki for wiki/doc related matters
[13:41:01] <zkriesse> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
