{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Log of meeting on 12/2/08 ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| Rocket2DMn
| Complete our <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/FAQ|FAQ]]</nowiki>
|-
| PrivateVoid
| Education Focus Group - Meetings, class formats, call for instructors
|-
| PrivateVoid
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Includes/HeaderDraft|DRAFT: Wiki Header Page]]</nowiki> - need to see if people like the idea or not
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====
(none)

=== Log ===
[Wed Dec 3 0:2:24] <bodhi_zazen> First, as always, thank you  to everyone here (and to those who could not make it as well)

[Wed Dec 3 0:3:11] <bodhi_zazen> I know we are all volunteers, but this team contributes significantly to the Ubuntu community and it is appreciated

[Wed Dec 3 0:3:59] <bodhi_zazen> Any of the various teams have anything specific ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:4] <PrivateVoid> Yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:9] <PrivateVoid> I put them on the agenda

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:9] <bodhi_zazen> Looks like wiki team and Education have issues :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:11] <Rocket2DMn> Why dont you just go down the list after PV is done

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:15] <bodhi_zazen> go PrivateVoid :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:33] <PrivateVoid> OK... first I have made a call for instructors on the forums

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:41] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, yea, I am just wanting a heads up if there are issues is all

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:56] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, I thought it was just topics

[Wed Dec 3 0:4:59] <PrivateVoid> these people would be ones who would teach a class via IRC or simply design a course that would be on the forums or use the wiki

[Wed Dec 3 0:5:20] <PrivateVoid> ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:5:23] <PrivateVoid> should I stop?

[Wed Dec 3 0:5:26] <bodhi_zazen> no, go

[Wed Dec 3 0:5:29] <PrivateVoid> k

[Wed Dec 3 0:5:46] <Rocket2DMn> While PV types, the Education Focus Group page is here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Education

[Wed Dec 3 0:6:1] <PrivateVoid> the general idea is to create not only live IRC courses, but courses that may stretch over a few weeks and have content on the wiki/forum and a live portion as well

[Wed Dec 3 0:6:16] <isiah> what kind of courses if i can ask?

[Wed Dec 3 0:6:24] <isiah> like intro to the console stuff?

[Wed Dec 3 0:6:30] <PrivateVoid> think of a programming course where students are given basic information... then a set of problems... then the live session would be where the could get help

[Wed Dec 3 0:6:45] <PrivateVoid> some topics are more suited to one format or the other... so this is a variable thing

[Wed Dec 3 0:6:59] <PrivateVoid> the console would likely be a 'resource' and not a course...

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:5] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, you have put a lot of effort into this, thank you

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:13] <bodhi_zazen> May I make a suggestion ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:18] <Rocket2DMn> Beautiful wiki pages PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:21] <PrivateVoid> one more thing

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:34] <PrivateVoid> I am meeting with the classroom team about the concept as well

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:40] <PrivateVoid> yes... a suggestion is good

[Wed Dec 3 0:7:43] <bodhi_zazen> How about a scheduled "live" Q&A session on IRC ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:8:7] <PrivateVoid> those would be good too bodhi_zazen - most likely when people have questions about posted 'resources'

[Wed Dec 3 0:8:10] <bodhi_zazen> Looking at the topics , I was thinking if we ran a live Q&A , drop by, it would get things started

[Wed Dec 3 0:8:18] <PrivateVoid> or want to go a little deeper than the wiki/forum FAQ goes

[Wed Dec 3 0:8:37] <PrivateVoid> here is the started resource page - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Education/Resources

[Wed Dec 3 0:8:56] <bodhi_zazen> The question came up, what is the relation between the BT and Classroom

[Wed Dec 3 0:9:0] <forestpixie> is back (gone 01:59:29)

[Wed Dec 3 0:9:13] <PrivateVoid> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Dec 3 0:9:27] <bodhi_zazen> I think the answer was, similar to wiki or irc, we can recruit and send people to the Classroom

[Wed Dec 3 0:9:51] <PrivateVoid> well... the classroom folks and I will be talking about that tonight at 8pm EST

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:2] <bodhi_zazen> OK, on IRC ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:2] <PrivateVoid> they would like us to run our IRC courses in their room

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:5] <PrivateVoid> yes on iRC

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:9] <Rocket2DMn> pleia2 is logged into IRC if you need to talk to her as well

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:15] <PrivateVoid> #ubuntu-classroom

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:25] <bodhi_zazen> I see no problem with using #ubuntu-classroom

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:28] <PrivateVoid> pleia2 is the lead on the classroom team

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:29] <digitalvectorz> what would be the difference between live Q&A and #ubuntu ? ooc?

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:37] <bodhi_zazen> we are looking to augment, not take over

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:43] <bodhi_zazen> or duplicate efforts

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:46] <PrivateVoid> #ubuntu is impossible for people to follow

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:55] <PrivateVoid> and not as focused

[Wed Dec 3 0:10:56] <digitalvectorz> +1 PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:2] <Rocket2DMn> I think Q&A is different from looking for support

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:4] <bodhi_zazen> #ubuntu = support

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:16] <PrivateVoid> the Q&A would be focused on a particular topic for a period of time

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:21] <bodhi_zazen> Q&A = more detailed questions, not covered on #ubuntu

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:23] <EvilKastel> hello guys... are we in a meeting?

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:30] <bodhi_zazen> yes EvilKastel

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:51] <EvilKastel> allright. bodhi_zazen  thanks.

[Wed Dec 3 0:11:59] <bodhi_zazen> For example, how to install from source is more a discussion then a question for #ubutnu, IMHO

[Wed Dec 3 0:12:9] <PrivateVoid> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Dec 3 0:12:14] <PrivateVoid> as is setting up UFW

[Wed Dec 3 0:12:31] <bodhi_zazen> In the interest of moving things along ...

[Wed Dec 3 0:12:31] <PrivateVoid> there could be a generic wiki article on it... but a Q&A on specific questions

[Wed Dec 3 0:12:45] <bodhi_zazen> anything we need to specifically discuss fruther ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:12:56] <bodhi_zazen> +1 PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:1] <PrivateVoid> not on that issue...

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:7] <PrivateVoid> but there is the next item on the agenda

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:17] <bodhi_zazen> perhaps we should ask instructors to create / update the relevant wiki pages

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:20] <PrivateVoid> when we are ready... sorry for being a microphone hog

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:28] <PrivateVoid> yes, that is the idea

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:33] <bodhi_zazen> go PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:34] <PrivateVoid> or Forum FAQs

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:39] <PrivateVoid> ok.. next item

[Wed Dec 3 0:13:58] <PrivateVoid> I made a header for the education team -- https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Education

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:6] <Rocket2DMn> likes very much

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:8] <PrivateVoid> and was asked if I could make one for the main team site...

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:9] <bodhi_zazen> It is sweet PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:17] <PrivateVoid> I made a mock up and want to get approval to use it

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:22] <PrivateVoid> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Includes/HeaderDraft

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:23] <paultag> sorry I am late

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:31] <Rocket2DMn> +1 your help with that would be much appreciated, I'd be happy to work on the details with you PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:35] <PrivateVoid> that is the actual header... I tried to fit a majority of our main links

[Wed Dec 3 0:14:48] <bodhi_zazen> **** Notice ****

[Wed Dec 3 0:15:5] <bodhi_zazen> Are there any potential members not on the meeting agenda ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:15:17] <bodhi_zazen> If so, please update the agenda (one at a time please)

[Wed Dec 3 0:15:40] <bodhi_zazen> It looks awesome PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:15:44] <PrivateVoid> Rocket2DMn, and others... should we move forward with that header?

[Wed Dec 3 0:15:53] <PrivateVoid> do we want to vote on it?

[Wed Dec 3 0:15:59] <Rocket2DMn> PrivateVoid, i think there are actually a few too many links on it

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:1] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "Use PV's Header ?"

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:1] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: Use PV's Header ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:1] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:1] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:12] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:17] <PrivateVoid> We can always remove items

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:25] <PrivateVoid> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:27] <isiah> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:29] <Rocket2DMn> +1 we can hammer out some details after the meeting with it, it looks very nice

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:30] <PrivateVoid> I will abstain

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:34] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:16:44] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:6] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone else wanting to vote ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:18] <paultag> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:19] <digitalvectorz> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:21] <Joeb454> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:25] <bodhi_zazen> 3... 2... 1...

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:33] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:33] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: Use PV's Header ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:33] <VoteBot> 7 People Voted. 6 People For. 0 People Against. 1 People Neutral.

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:40] <bodhi_zazen> :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:47] <PrivateVoid> nods

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:50] <Rocket2DMn> very cool

[Wed Dec 3 0:17:57] <PrivateVoid> I will work on getting that in place over the next few days

[Wed Dec 3 0:18:12] <bodhi_zazen> focus groups -> Rocket2DMn ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:18:13] <PrivateVoid> Rocket2DMn, and I can hammer out the final 'links' for the header

[Wed Dec 3 0:18:27] <Rocket2DMn> we'll talk after the meeting PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:18:37] <Rocket2DMn> thanks bodhi_zazen , onto a new topic then guys

[Wed Dec 3 0:19:4] <Rocket2DMn> Last summer we did a nice job with our FAQ that had existed in some form already on the community docs - https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/FAQ

[Wed Dec 3 0:19:12] <bodhi_zazen> +1 on working on the team FAQ

[Wed Dec 3 0:19:29] <Rocket2DMn> However, it is still incomplete, and some of its pages may not be up to date with Intrepid, so I was hoping we can finish the FAQ and update some of the pages that it links to

[Wed Dec 3 0:19:39] <bodhi_zazen> Would everyone please consider reviewing that page and adding / editing a little something please ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:19:47] <PrivateVoid> yes...

[Wed Dec 3 0:19:55] <PrivateVoid> it appears to go hand in hand with the edu team

[Wed Dec 3 0:20:9] <PrivateVoid> as it covers a great many of the things we want to ensure new users know...

[Wed Dec 3 0:20:14] <PrivateVoid> it makes a great spring board

[Wed Dec 3 0:20:15] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, thank you , I do not want to be the only one bringing up that page ;)

[Wed Dec 3 0:20:20] <Rocket2DMn> yes, I was hoping Education FG members and Wiki FG members could be strong contributors

[Wed Dec 3 0:20:44] <bodhi_zazen> Also, Rocket2DMn THANK YOU for migrating the wiki pages

[Wed Dec 3 0:20:53] <Rocket2DMn> If anybody needs help with wiki syntax or has questions, just let me know.

[Wed Dec 3 0:21:5] <bodhi_zazen> anything else from wiki team ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:21:18] <Rocket2DMn> no problem, I wiki migration is complete, any pages left on the community docs will remain there since they are actually help pages

[Wed Dec 3 0:21:29] <bodhi_zazen> OK, Forums

[Wed Dec 3 0:21:30] <Rocket2DMn> That is all.

[Wed Dec 3 0:21:38] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone have any questions re: forums ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:4] <PrivateVoid> great job Rocket2DMn +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:5] <bodhi_zazen> Thank you everyone for working on the fourms :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:16] <bodhi_zazen> Security ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:19] <bodhi_zazen> Tronyx, you here ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:20] <Joeb454> forums ftw :P

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:24] <Rocket2DMn> Tronyx, ping

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:43] <Tronyx_> hi

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:47] <Tronyx_> sorry, what did i miss?

[Wed Dec 3 0:22:54] <spiderbatdad> lol

[Wed Dec 3 0:23:3] <bodhi_zazen> I would say, the awareness of security is increasing and we are getting some higher quailty threads in the security section

[Wed Dec 3 0:23:29] <Tronyx_> i sure as hell hope so because they have been eating something awful as of late

[Wed Dec 3 0:23:40] <bodhi_zazen> Please take the time to familiarize yourselves with basic security

[Wed Dec 3 0:23:56] <Rocket2DMn> bookmark it - http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=510812

[Wed Dec 3 0:23:57] <Tronyx_> if you have questions i will always entertain a good question =D

[Wed Dec 3 0:23:57] <bodhi_zazen> Tronyx, nothing that arises to your high standards, just a step in the right direction is all

[Wed Dec 3 0:24:18] <Tronyx_> hmmm not sure how to interpret that

[Wed Dec 3 0:24:38] <Rocket2DMn> Tronyx_, you could try using wireshark...

[Wed Dec 3 0:24:48] <paultag> Tronyx_, sulted

[Wed Dec 3 0:24:56] <PrivateVoid> nmap

[Wed Dec 3 0:25:1] <bodhi_zazen> Tronyx, well it is better then the recurring discussions about stealth ports

[Wed Dec 3 0:25:9] <bodhi_zazen> but not as good as wireshark

[Wed Dec 3 0:25:16] <Tronyx_> we need more wireshark

[Wed Dec 3 0:25:23] <bodhi_zazen> :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:25:29] <bodhi_zazen> OK, IRC team ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:25:46] <Tronyx_> on another note, if anyone wants to donate towards registering the domain "youcouldtryusingwireshark.com" with which we can use to respond to posts, it would be greatly appreciated

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:6] <bodhi_zazen> Development team ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:10] <Joeb454> Tronyx_, I'll buy it :P

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:11] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, Yo

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:21] <Joeb454> and bodhi_zazen nothing from IRC, it needs a rethink, IMO

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:25] <paultag> K Guys, I will make this quick, I know none of you want to be here ---

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:46] <paultag> We are looking for new members, we would like to maintain activity, so if you are interested in development, head to ##beginners-dev

[Wed Dec 3 0:26:55] <paultag> We should have the SVN server running one of these days...

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:2] <paultag> :) bodhi_zazen ( I am looking at you )

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:7] <paultag> kk, thats it for us

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:14] <bodhi_zazen> paultag, the svn server is still running

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:26] <bodhi_zazen> It is just on the old server, you should be able to ssh into it

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:27] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, yeah, but we need to get keys set and management etc

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:36] <bodhi_zazen> OK, talk to me later

[Wed Dec 3 0:27:37] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, ok, we can talk after the meeting

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:2] <bodhi_zazen> Congrats to all the MOTU and potential MOTU

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:3] <st33med> I am ...

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:10] <spiderbatdad> do we have a #beginners-security?

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:12] <st33med> 30 mintutes late :|

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:14] <bodhi_zazen> Please do not forget about us low lives

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:32] <PrivateVoid> who is trying to become MOTU?

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:36] <st33med> I MISSED IT??>

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:46] <paultag> PrivateVoid, me, nhandler

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:48] <Rocket2DMn> st33med, were still going

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:51] <st33med> Oh cool

[Wed Dec 3 0:28:52] <PrivateVoid> grats!!!

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:2] <st33med> What channel

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:4] <bodhi_zazen> Any other team issues b4 we move to new members ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:35] <bodhi_zazen> Should we discuss VoteBot abuse ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:40] <st33med> Aye

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:41] <bodhi_zazen> Link abuse ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:45] <st33med> Nay

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:54] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, CK link issues?

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:59] <Rocket2DMn> Let's just disable factoids

[Wed Dec 3 0:29:59] <st33med> :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:3] <paultag> Rocket2DMn, +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:4] <PrivateVoid> CK link issues -- yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:7] <st33med> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:11] <Tronyx_> i don't think he should be linking that shit to new people

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:11] <PrivateVoid> +1 paultag

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:13] <bodhi_zazen> Well, lest call them inappropriate links in the channel

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:21] <bodhi_zazen> CL is certainly not the only guilty party

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:25] <bodhi_zazen> hangs head in shame

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:31] <Tronyx_> well, anyone in general considering he is a mod, but NSFW needs to be declared

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:37] <st33med> What channel is the MOTU thingy going on

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:37] <paultag> Tronyx_, +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:40] <lukjad007> o/

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:40] <bodhi_zazen> http://www.pakkusblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/04/ubuntu-804-4.jpg

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:47] <paultag> can we mark the GWOS Domain as NSFW?

[Wed Dec 3 0:30:52] <Tronyx_> that's fine

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:0] <Tronyx_> i am talking about bleeding god knows whats and penises

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:13] <paultag> Tronyx_, totally.

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:22] <st33med> Oh, and, NEVER OPEN MY LINK :|||||||||

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:23] <bodhi_zazen> OK, please mark links as NSFW then ;)

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:25] <Rocket2DMn> what has been seen cannot be unseen

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:39] <ajmorris> bloody router cut out 5 mins before the meeting :@

[Wed Dec 3 0:31:39] <bodhi_zazen> go lukjad007 :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:3] <st33med> What chan is MOTU going on in?

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:4] <lukjad007> I just wanted to say that I don't mind votebot, but I'm still new to IRC

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:4] <bodhi_zazen> lukjad007, ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:5] <ajmorris> like bodhizazen.gwos.org/customavatar029032.gif

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:16] <bodhi_zazen> LOL

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:25] <bodhi_zazen> OK then, last item I have

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:37] <bodhi_zazen> Lets cut down on the VoteBot abuse please

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:48] <paultag> robb, that means you

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:56] <PrivateVoid> +1 paultag

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:57] <paultag> I know you are reading this

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:57] <bodhi_zazen> a little VoteBot is funny some times, but too much of a good thing ...

[Wed Dec 3 0:32:59] <isiah> yeah i vote getting rid of it

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:2] <Tronyx_> i've been pleased with VoteBot and its usage in this channel but as I am sure we all know i am around much less these days

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:16] <Rocket2DMn> Tronyx, you and me both on the latter statement

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:16] <st33med> *cough*

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:17] <paultag> Tronyx_, sadsies

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:19] <Tronyx_> VoteBot is my pal, -1 for getting rid of it

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:28] <bodhi_zazen> isiah, we will not get rid of it, but we can restrict access

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:34] <isiah> too bad

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:44] <ajmorris> if people abuse it bodhi, we can simply have them ignored

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:45] <bodhi_zazen> VoteBot, is our spy :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:50] <paultag> Disable Factoids I say!

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:52] <lukjad007> I suppose it could get annoying seeing it over and over, but I think "he" funnier than some people who I know.

[Wed Dec 3 0:33:59] <ajmorris> there is already an ignore function in it bodhi_zazen

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:14] <bodhi_zazen> ajmorris, I do not want to be heavy handed :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:14] <Rocket2DMn> we shouldnt need to set ignore on people

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:21] <bodhi_zazen> Just keep it to reason please

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:23] <paultag> Factoids are the most useless can'd responses ever, I vote to get rid of them

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:25] <Rocket2DMn> I think we can all be mature enough to just not abuse the bot

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:29] <ajmorris> we shouldnt *need* to, but it is an option just in case

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:31] <PrivateVoid> shakes his head

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:43] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, which way ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:45] <PrivateVoid> we are all supposed to be mature here... and setting a good example for the Ubuntu community

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:49] <Byrnison> I vote keeping it, even though I can't vote and am not a member, and probably shouldn't be saying anything.

[Wed Dec 3 0:34:59] <bodhi_zazen> Maturity is over rated :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:0] <paultag> PrivateVoid, but the thing is not all of us are

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:4] <Joeb454> paultag, not *all* factoids are useless :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:7] <paultag> PrivateVoid, and we still have fun

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:17] <PrivateVoid> having fun is great... within reason

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:20] <bodhi_zazen> Byrnison, this is an open meeting so feel free all to join in

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:23] <paultag> Joeb454, the !ohmy every second to saying "Crap" every two seconds is overboard

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:29] <PrivateVoid> my only problem with bot abuse is when it is used to abuse people

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:31] <lukjad007> I agree with Byrnison, in the same way that I'm not a member.

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:37] <Byrnison> I don't have need for help for often, but VoteBot has a large number of helpful links.

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:37] <PrivateVoid> especially people new to the channel

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:48] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:35:50] <Byrnison> Or it would seem, anyway.

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:4] <bodhi_zazen> VoteBot == Dead horse :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:20] <bodhi_zazen> Shall we do new membersip ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:25] <isiah> you know the startup message when we come here says clearly "No bots please"

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:27] <st33med> I need to see a man about a horse

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:30] <st33med> :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:34] <Rocket2DMn> +1 on moving onto membership voting

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:45] <paultag> anyone want to post the list?

[Wed Dec 3 0:36:50] <ajmorris> i have something i wanted to discuss bodhi... forgot to add it to the agenda, but it can wait till after membership :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:2] <PrivateVoid> Flare183 and PartyBoi2

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:4] <bodhi_zazen> go ajmorris

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:9] <PrivateVoid> those are the only two listed on the page

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:33] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, do we not have additional eligible folks ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:44] <ajmorris> ok, well, this is an item from UAP... the unanswered posts team has a tracker to track your own posts, and flag them for help if/when you get stuck helping someone

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:46] <forestpixie> that's all bodhi_zazen

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:48] <PrivateVoid> none have been nominated

[Wed Dec 3 0:37:58] <ajmorris> i was wondering if the bt wanted to join with uap, and help each other out through this tracker

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:8] <paultag> PrivateVoid, I think that my mentee is ready to be voted on, but it is soon

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:11] <bodhi_zazen> +1 ajmorris

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:12] <Rocket2DMn> ajmorris, +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:18] <talsemgeest> +1 ajmorris

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:23] <paultag> sorry, UAP?

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:31] <ajmorris> unanswered posts team

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:32] <talsemgeest> Un answered posts

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:32] <forestpixie> unanswered posts

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:34] <bodhi_zazen> The quiet ones ...

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:34] <paultag> ah

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:36] <paultag> +1 ajmorris

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:50] <bodhi_zazen> NEW MEMBERS

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:51] <forestpixie> oh +1 :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:56] <PrivateVoid> bodhi_zazen, I personally would put EvilKastel as a possible for a vote tonight but that it really up to st33med

[Wed Dec 3 0:38:59] <bodhi_zazen> Has anyone seen Flare recently ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:0] <ajmorris> kk, ill hook it up then :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:13] <paultag> PrivateVoid, any idea on Andrew?

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:16] <st33med> I would really put up EvilKastel up

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:16] <PrivateVoid> I would also put NewJack up ... but he has not take his test yet...

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:29] <PrivateVoid> I have seen him around, but not much...

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:32] <Hellow> what happened to BLT a while back?

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:37] <PrivateVoid> I would likely put him forward as well.

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:44] <bodhi_zazen> BLT is around from time to time

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:51] <PrivateVoid> but that is up to paultag

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:53] <ajmorris> i havnt seen flare around recently, and i have been doing othing but sitting in this channel...

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:53] <Hellow> hrm, I never see him

[Wed Dec 3 0:39:54] <Rocket2DMn> BLT just isnt very active on IRC

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:9] <Byrnison> I recall seeing Flare sometime today, but only his quit message...

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:27] <bodhi_zazen> OK, how about PartyBoi2 ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:34] <PrivateVoid> he was nominated

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:44] <bodhi_zazen> shall we vote ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:48] <forestpixie> yep

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:57] <st33med> EvilKastel vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:40:59] <ajmorris> we gonna do private voting?

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:4] <bodhi_zazen> .vote " PartyBoi2 for membership"

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:4] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On:  PartyBoi2 for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:4] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:4] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:10] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:17] <PrivateVoid> I would personally think it is safe to do PartyBoi2 EvilKastel andrew.46 and Flare183

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:20] <bodhi_zazen> ajmorris, if you wish

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:21] <Hellow> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:21] <paultag> PrivateVoid, I think andrew.46 is ready for a vote. He, however is not here.

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:22] <PrivateVoid> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:30] <st33med> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:31] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:34] <ajmorris> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:47] <PrivateVoid> paultag, I think it is ok to vote on him when he is not here... he is on fairly often from what I see

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:53] <ajmorris> hehe, its not really as i wish, i just remember a couple of members got annoyed about non-private voting...

[Wed Dec 3 0:41:59] <paultag> PrivateVoid, k

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:2] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:2] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On:  PartyBoi2 for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:2] <VoteBot> 7 People Voted. 7 People For. 0 People Against. 0 People Neutral.

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:5] <ajmorris> if someone wanted to go -1, they dont wanna do it in the channel...

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:5] <st33med> AKA, DrSmall

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:5] <paultag> ajmorris, I msg'ed

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:11] <bodhi_zazen> yee hoo :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:15] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome PartyBoi2

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:17] <paultag> 'grats PartyBoi2

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:20] <forestpixie> welocme PartyBoi2

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:22] <ajmorris> lol st33med, i was leaving names out :P

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:25] <digitalvectorz> welcome PartyBoi2

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:27] <st33med> :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:27] <PartyBoi2> thanks guys :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:30] <ajmorris> gz PartyBoi2 :D

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:30] <bodhi_zazen> I prefer to keep the team open if at all possible

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:33] <Tronyx_> who's used john to crack a password before?

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:40] <st33med> Me

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:42] <digitalvectorz> i have Tronyx_

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:42] <paultag> Tronyx_, o/ a while back though

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:43] <bodhi_zazen> Tronyx, you know I have :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:43] <ajmorris> me Tronyx_

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:44] <Byrnison> That was an odd question...

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:46] <Tronyx_> does it separate the salt?

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:48] <Rocket2DMn> Tronyx_, i have, lets wait til after the meeting tho

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:49] <PrivateVoid> raises hand

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:54] <Hellow> Tronyx_: that is going to look nice on the logs

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:54] <Tronyx_> sorry i didn't know it was still going

[Wed Dec 3 0:42:59] <spiderbatdad> Tronyx, I've run the prog but to no avail

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:2] <bodhi_zazen> go PrivateVoid

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:15] <PrivateVoid> no.. I was saying yes to Tronyx_

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:18] <bodhi_zazen> kk

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:22] <PrivateVoid> sorry for the confusion

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:30] <bodhi_zazen> Shall we vote on Flare ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:39] <PrivateVoid> yes... he was nominated

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:47] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "Flare183 for membership"

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:47] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: Flare183 for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:47] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:47] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:50] <Hellow> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:53] <paultag> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:43:59] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:4] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:7] <st33med> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:25] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:25] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: Flare183 for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:25] <VoteBot> 8 People Voted. 5 People For. 0 People Against. 3 People Neutral.

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:43] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome Flare :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:44:52] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone want to second EvilKastel ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:1] <ajmorris> has he done the quiz?

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:3] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, o/

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:3] <PrivateVoid> I will

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:4] <spiderbatdad> 2nd

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:18] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "EvilKastel for membership"

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:18] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: EvilKastel for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:18] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:18] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:21] <st33med> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:26] <Rocket2DMn> has he been quizzed?

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:33] <PrivateVoid> yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:34] <st33med> Yah

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:36] <PrivateVoid> according to the page

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:37] <Hellow> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:38] <ajmorris> then

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:39] <ajmorris> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:43] <Rocket2DMn> ah wiki page is outdated

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:54] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:57] <paultag> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:45:58] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:4] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:4] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: EvilKastel for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:4] <VoteBot> 8 People Voted. 6 People For. 0 People Against. 2 People Neutral.

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:5] <Joeb454> -9

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:11] <Joeb454> ;)

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:15] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome EvilKastel :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:20] <paultag> 'grats EvilKastel

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:26] <forestpixie> welcome EvilKastel

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:28] <Hellow> o/ looks like :/ too much

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:31] <bodhi_zazen> Any seocnd for andrew.46 ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:40] <Hellow> has he been quizzed?

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:41] <bodhi_zazen> I do not think andrew has been quized

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:43] <paultag> Hellow, yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:45] <paultag> wait

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:49] <Hellow> I dont remember it

[Wed Dec 3 0:46:52] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, I thought you quizzed him

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:3] <Hellow> if it was in the middle of the night, I wont remember it

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:8] <bodhi_zazen> you expect me to remember these things ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:14] <forestpixie> he has  a tick

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:17] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, I am about 90% sure

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:23] <bodhi_zazen> The quiz should not be a barrier :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:27] <Hellow> I doubt he has been quizzed

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:36] <forestpixie> it's on the list as yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:47] <PrivateVoid> andrew is listed as being complete

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:48] <paultag> forestpixie, I did that when I put him up

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:53] <PrivateVoid> EvilKastel, was not

[Wed Dec 3 0:47:54] <bodhi_zazen> If it is on the list, then it must be so :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:11] <Rocket2DMn> the almighty wiki does not lie... if only i had a dime for every time that wasnt true

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:16] <paultag> heh

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:23] <paultag> OK, well then shall we Requiz?

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:30] <paultag> let me correct the wiki

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:32] <PrivateVoid> EvilKastel, quickly we need to quiz you...

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:35] <bodhi_zazen> sex, lies, and wiki pages

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:39] <PrivateVoid> what is the the answer?

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:43] <Rocket2DMn> 42

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:45] <st33med> 42

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:47] <paultag> 41

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:49] <paultag> daMN!

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:52] <bodhi_zazen> 69

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:53] <paultag> fucking keyboard

[Wed Dec 3 0:48:54] <nathangrubb> I see the meeting is going well

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:0] <bodhi_zazen> any seconds for andrew ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:5] <forestpixie> yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:6] <nathangrubb> who's andrew?

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:9] <nathangrubb> are we voting on him?

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:11] <bodhi_zazen> anyone eles who needs a vote ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:12] <Joeb454> night all

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:14] <EvilKastel> i am here now

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:19] <spiderbatdad> -1

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:23] <EvilKastel> sorry, i was afk

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:25] <paultag> I think andrew is good to go

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:30] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:34] <paultag> shall we vote?

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:42] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "andrew.42 for membership"

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:42] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: andrew.42 for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:42] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:42] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:46] <paultag> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:48] <forestpixie> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:49:57] <bodhi_zazen> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:7] <nathangrubb> since I've never met him..

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:8] <digitalvectorz> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:8] <nathangrubb> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:17] <Hellow> 0

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:19] <ajmorris> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:33] <bodhi_zazen> paultag, do you have to be voiced to vote ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:41] <paultag> +1

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:44] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, good point

[Wed Dec 3 0:50:45] <bodhi_zazen> :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:4] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:4] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: andrew.42 for membership

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:4] <VoteBot> 9 People Voted. 4 People For. 0 People Against. 5 People Neutral.

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:11] <Rocket2DMn> postpone?

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:13] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome andrew.42 :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:15] <Hellow> no clue

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:19] <Hellow> he won by a slim vote

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:21] <bodhi_zazen> Any other team business ?

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:42] <EvilKastel> PrivateVoid, do you still need to quiz me?

[Wed Dec 3 0:51:58] <bodhi_zazen> too late EvilKastel , you have been assimilated

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:4] <PrivateVoid> yes

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:9] <PrivateVoid> EvilKastel, what is the answer?

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:32] <ibuclaw> woot... assimilation

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:36] <Hellow> lol

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:36] <EvilKastel> oh, so I am a member? woot

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:43] <Rocket2DMn> ALL HAIL bodhi_zazen HE IS T3H 1337EST

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:45] <Hellow> that you are

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:47] <PrivateVoid> yes you are if you tell me the answer

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:53] <EvilKastel> yes?

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:59] <forestpixie> wrong

[Wed Dec 3 0:52:59] <Hellow> PrivateVoid: tell me the answer

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:2] <spiderbatdad> slaps forehead

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:4] <PrivateVoid> 42

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:9] <Hellow> not that dang answer

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:16] <Hellow> the answer to everything!

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:19] <PrivateVoid> its the only answer

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:20] <PrivateVoid> 42

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:25] <Hellow> no, 24 is

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:29] <ajmorris> 69 is the answer

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:33] <PrivateVoid> and if it is not the answer you did not ask the right question

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:35] <Hellow> NOES

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:35] <ibuclaw> PrivateVoid, what do you get when you times 7 by 8 ? :P

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:45] <forestpixie> 42

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:49] <EvilKastel> at42

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:49] <Rocket2DMn> its 7 by 9

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:50] <Rocket2DMn> ugggh

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:51] <Hellow> NOES

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:54] <robb_m> answer to life

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:56] <Hellow> pi is the answer

[Wed Dec 3 0:53:59] <Hellow> pi is all

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:5] <ibuclaw> Rocket2DMn, it's been a while since I last saw the TV series

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:6] <PrivateVoid> ok -- going to me other meeting....

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:8] <zu22> Hi I have been using Ubuntu for 1 year on my 9 year old Dell laptop. My hard disk controlled died and I was able to use the Ubuntu live CD. MS Windows can't do that haha! Long live Ubuntu! Long live Linux! w00t

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:12] <EvilKastel> i like better e, or K

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:22] <paultag> zu22, please wait until after the meeting

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:23] <Hellow> oh, and I brought zu22 in from another channel :)

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:28] <Hellow> he wants to join the BT

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:30] <ajmorris> what meeting PrivateVoid?

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:33] <bodhi_zazen> welcome zu

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:35] <zu22> oh sorry the way ppl was tal[king u thought meeting over

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:36] <Hellow> paultag: it just ended

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:36] <bodhi_zazen> .meeting

[Wed Dec 3 0:54:36] <VoteBot> =-=-=Meeting mode disabled=-=-=
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
