{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Log of meeting on 8/20/08 ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
This was an interim meeting to discuss leadership and team structure.

This included discussion and votes about General Team Structure, Beginners Team Council and Council Members, and IRC mods.

Also mentioned was: !prayer before meetings, LP FG leader opening, and giving the new member quiz.

=== Log ===
[Wed Aug 20 23:10:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> First thank you all for coming

[Wed Aug 20 23:10:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> The purpose of the meeting as you all know is to discuss leadership within the team now that I have grown

[Wed Aug 20 23:11:10 2008] <bodhi_zazen> This topic is now open for discussion, please take turns with the discussion ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:11:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> use o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:11:29 2008] <bodhi_zazen> comments, questions ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:11:31 2008] <Bodsda> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:11:59 2008] <Bodsda> Can someone please state general outline of the new structure

[Wed Aug 20 23:12:17 2008] <bodhi_zazen> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Team/Structure

[Wed Aug 20 23:12:33 2008] <Joeb454> that page is quite confusing

[Wed Aug 20 23:12:38 2008] <bodhi_zazen> General outline is ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:12:42 2008] <bodhi_zazen> umm ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:12:51 2008] <Bodsda> ty bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:12:53 2008] <Joeb454> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> open for discussion

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:10 2008] <Bodsda> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:12 2008] <PrivateVoid> O/

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Bodsda, ->

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:29 2008] <Joeb454> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:31 2008] <Bodsda> Why do masters have to be ubuntu members?

[Wed Aug 20 23:13:59 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think we are going to change the term from "masters" to fellows

[Wed Aug 20 23:14:15 2008] <PrivateVoid> It is a way of recognizing those who have achieved the status of Ubuntu Member...

[Wed Aug 20 23:14:15 2008] <nhandler> What would be the roll of these "fellows" bodhi_zazen ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:14:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Team members who are also ubuntu members would be called Fellows rather then masters

[Wed Aug 20 23:14:37 2008] <vor> I like "fellows" better

[Wed Aug 20 23:14:42 2008] <Bodsda> ty PrivateVoid & bodhi_zazen -- question answered

[Wed Aug 20 23:14:44 2008] <Alan_M> +1 vor

[Wed Aug 20 23:15:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Other then recognizing and encouraging Ubutnu membership, there is nothing else "Fellows" are entitled to

[Wed Aug 20 23:15:26 2008] <Joeb454> apart from being cooler than most :P

[Wed Aug 20 23:15:27 2008] <nhandler> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:15:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> so lets start with that then

[Wed Aug 20 23:15:33 2008] <Alan_M> the "masters" list got a little messed up when we applied "masters" to other positions.

[Wed Aug 20 23:15:40 2008] <Joeb454> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Shall we vote on the recognition of "Fellows" ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:05 2008] <vor> Yes

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:07 2008] <nhandler> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:07 2008] <Alan_M> sure

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:13 2008] <PrivateVoid> I move to vote on Fellows

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:23 2008] <nhandler> I second the move to vote on Fellows

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "should ubutnu members be recognized as "Fellows" ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:27 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: should ubutnu members be recognized as "Fellows

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:27 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:27 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:30 2008] <paultag> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:31 2008] <Alan_M> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:33 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:33 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:36 2008] <Bodsda> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:39 2008] <y_lee> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:40 2008] <Rocket2DMn> -1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:43 2008] <vor> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:46 2008] <Maddeth> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:16:46 2008] <vor> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:01 2008] <tinivole> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:08 2008] <Joeb454> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone else ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:27 2008] <Joeb454> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:33 2008] <paultag> wait

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> In general I am going to abstain from voting

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:37 2008] <paultag> I am changing

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:37 2008] <paultag> -1

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:50 2008] <bodhi_zazen> anyone else ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:53 2008] <paultag> I just read it   :)   sorry guys

[Wed Aug 20 23:17:57 2008] <Bodsda> why bodhi_zazen, you are just as entitled to vote us the rest of us?

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I know how I would like to manage the team, I want everyone elses input

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:24 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: should ubutnu members be recognized as "Fellows

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:24 2008] <VoteBot> 11 People Voted. 4 People For. 2 People Against. 5 People Neutral.

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:27 2008] <Bodsda> ok

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:33 2008] <Rocket2DMn> you should place a vote bodhi_zazen , maybe just wiat til the last one

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:46 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/ point of procedure

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:52 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go PriceChild

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:55 2008] <bodhi_zazen> doh

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:57 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid,

[Wed Aug 20 23:18:59 2008] <Alan_M> heh, nice one bodhi   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:00 2008] <PrivateVoid> when we have a vote like that --- does it fail?

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:16 2008] <Joeb454> PrivateVoid, that would be passed

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I would say not

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:26 2008] <Rocket2DMn> There is nothing like 2/3 vote?

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:26 2008] <nhandler> Joeb454: Even with 5 neutral?

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:30 2008] <PrivateVoid> with 5 neutral?

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> although we should ratify what constitutes as pass / fail

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:41 2008] <Joeb454> neutral in my mind means "i don't care either way"

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:42 2008] <paultag> it was 4 to 2

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1 paultag

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:54 2008] <Bodsda> +1 paultag

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:54 2008] <Joeb454> so technically, it passes

[Wed Aug 20 23:19:54 2008] <paultag> lets move on

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:02 2008] <Maddeth> I just don't want anything to chane

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:05 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, next issue ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:05 2008] <Maddeth> change*

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:06 2008] <PrivateVoid> that is why I was asking... I wanted clarification of our procedure

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:06 2008] <paultag> I voted -1, but I can go with it, lets go on

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> leadership

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> The general question is have we grown to a critical mass such that one person can no longer manage the team ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:43 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I believe we have

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:49 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:50 2008] <nhandler> I am in favor of having a council bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:20:55 2008] <Bodsda> +1 nhandler

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:01 2008] <Alan_M> +100

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:03 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I think that you make that decision bodhi_zazen , and we just vote on how to proceed with council

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:04 2008] <Alan_M>   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid,

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:32 2008] <PrivateVoid> I believe that we have grown too large for one person, and I would like to see active focus groups, and some form of council

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:40 2008] <Joeb454> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> There is a general concern that changing leadership will change the team

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:45 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would also like to see that our members still have a say in things

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> and this is not my intention

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:56 2008] <bodhi_zazen> The goals are :

[Wed Aug 20 23:21:56 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: Change is not always a bad thing

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:13 2008] <Joeb454> it is for Maddeth, he's like an old lady

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:19 2008] <Maddeth> :O

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:23 2008] <Maddeth> so true

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:26 2008] <bodhi_zazen> 1. Allow decisions to be made without always having to directly involve me, allow the focus groups to grow

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:34 2008] <vor> I think the team dynamic can largely remain the same if the council is small and only acts when requested to act.

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> 2. Discipline

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:49 2008] <Maddeth> +1 vor

[Wed Aug 20 23:22:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> We are starting to have issues of let us say conduct

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:00 2008] <Bodsda> +1 vor

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think discipline should be done privately and by some consensus opinion

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:24 2008] <Maddeth> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:34 2008] <Bodsda> bodhi_zazen, in the sense of channel topic and peoples comments?

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:38 2008] <Maddeth> NO SLAMMING INFRONT OF EVRYONE

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:42 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Bodsda, yes

[Wed Aug 20 23:23:48 2008] <Maddeth> caps unintended

[Wed Aug 20 23:24:05 2008] <bodhi_zazen> the current suggestion is :

[Wed Aug 20 23:24:06 2008] <Bodsda> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:24:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> 1. Have 2-3 people with ops / moderation in this channel, hopefully covering as many time zones as possible

[Wed Aug 20 23:24:32 2008] <JoshuaRL> oop, forgot the meeting was today

[Wed Aug 20 23:24:48 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: How many people currently have ops?

[Wed Aug 20 23:24:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> These ops would be responsible for day - to - day channel issues

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler,  I think 5 or 6

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I then suggest we stengthen the Focus groups

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:29 2008] <Joeb454> bodhi_zazen, actually it's higher

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:38 2008] <Joeb454> it's about 8 or 9

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> thanks Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:43 2008] <Alan_M> 8 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:45 2008] <Joeb454> all the forum mods + ajmorris have op's

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:48 2008] <Bodsda> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:25:52 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go Bodsda

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:18 2008] <Bodsda> The council are there to settle any issues we have, what if our issue is with one of the council members (hypothetically speaking)

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:38 2008] <nhandler> Bodsda: I believe that is what bodhi_zazen is for

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:46 2008] <Joeb454> I would say take it to the council, and raise it with them, and the council member in question should abstain from that discussion

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> If there is an issue w/ the council -> apeal directly to bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:50 2008] <Bodsda> ok, cool, cheers nhandler

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:54 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:26:54 2008] <Bodsda> and bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn,

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:22 2008] <bodhi_zazen> As an aside ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:26 2008] <Rocket2DMn> What are we going to with the council channel?  Should it be private to council members only so that they can vote privately on issues?

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:32 2008] <bodhi_zazen> We need a new LP FG leader ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, lets table that discussion for now   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:55 2008] <Joeb454> Rocket2DMn, I would say thats the council's choice

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:58 2008] <nhandler> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:27:58 2008] <PrivateVoid> LP FG?

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:03 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ok

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:03 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Launchpad

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:05 2008] <paultag> PrivateVoid: Launcpad

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:06 2008] <Joeb454> PrivateVoid, LaunchPad Focus Group

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:10 2008] <PrivateVoid> k

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:16 2008] <Alan_M> Launchpad foucus group PrivateVoid..

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> LP was started by Toxicity999 , and I am grateful for that

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:27 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I was hoping somebody who isn't in charge of a FG would like to head up LP if they are involved there

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> but I think Toxicity999 does not have as much time for the team as he once did ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:50 2008] <paultag> Rocket2DMn: I agree, we dont need more multi taskers

[Wed Aug 20 23:28:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> coolbhavi would work

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:03 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I second asking bhavi

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:04 2008] <Joeb454> i suggest discussing this another time

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:07 2008] <nhandler> I also think coolbhavi would be a great LP FG leader

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:08 2008] <Bodsda> +1 Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:11 2008] <Alan_M> +1 joe

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:13 2008] <paultag> Joeb454: +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:17 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:29 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1 Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Well, we can discuss LP another time, but it is a need

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:30 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:43 2008] <bodhi_zazen> That needs to be addressed

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:52 2008] <Bodsda> but coolbahavi isnt here to agree/disagree

[Wed Aug 20 23:29:56 2008] <bodhi_zazen> And it feeds into leadership   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:08 2008] <Joeb454> true, I think the majority would suggest bhavi though

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> So lets return to discussion of the council

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:25 2008] <Bodsda> maybe so but we cannot assign him the role without his input

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, anything to add here ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:32 2008] <PrivateVoid> no...

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:38 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:41 2008] <PrivateVoid> was just going to say what Joeb454 did

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn,

[Wed Aug 20 23:30:58 2008] <Rocket2DMn> How many council members do we want / do we have?  How do we decide on them?  Vote?  Chosen by you?

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:19 2008] <nhandler> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:22 2008] <Joeb454> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Lets start with, is there a general agreement on forming a "council" ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:28 2008] <Joeb454> vote?

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:30 2008] <Bodsda> there are 10 on the page

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler,

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:41 2008] <vor> I second having a council

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:43 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:49 2008] <Bodsda> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:51 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Personally I suggest a smaller council

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:52 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:57 2008] <nhandler> I think we shhould have an odd number of people on the council

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:57 2008] <y_lee> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:31:59 2008] <Joeb454> then discuss size

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:00 2008] <JoshuaRL> o?

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:01 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/ Point of procedure - vote on council first -- then structure?

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:03 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:07 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "Should we establish a council ?"

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:07 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: Should we establish a council ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:07 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:07 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:11 2008] <paultag> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:12 2008] <vor> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:13 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:17 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:19 2008] <y_lee> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:22 2008] <Alan_M> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:25 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:42 2008] <Maddeth> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:32:48 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Any further votes ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:25 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: Should we establish a council ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:25 2008] <VoteBot> 11 People Voted. 7 People For. 0 People Against. 4 People Neutral.

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, next size ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:44 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:49 2008] <Bodsda> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:33:50 2008] <paultag> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I suggest the team elect council members every 3 or 6 months

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> JoshuaRL,

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:08 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:12 2008] <JoshuaRL> i think it should maybe a little smaller, and have an even number, with bohdi being the odd swing vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:12 2008] <Joeb454> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:19 2008] <JoshuaRL> maybe like 4 to 6

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Bodsda,

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:22 2008] <Bodsda> 5

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:25 2008] <paultag> I think as is is fine, we need a lot of diversity on it

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> paultag,

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:36 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid,

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:40 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I don't think odd/even really matters since it is rare you will have everybody there

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:40 2008] <paultag> we need it large enough without being too big, as is is fine

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:51 2008] <PrivateVoid> I think the size should be dynamic depending on the needs of the team, and the period of office should be 6 months to 12 months

[Wed Aug 20 23:34:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454,

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:00 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 PrivateVoid

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:01 2008] <Bodsda> +1 prov

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:07 2008] <Alan_M> +1 pv

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:09 2008] <Bodsda> +1 PrivateVoid

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:10 2008] <nhandler> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1 PrivateVoid

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:11 2008] <vor> +1 PrivateVoid

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, the issue with terms is some people need to come and go

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:21 2008] <Joeb454> size around 5 ---- and do we want "terms of office" or not?

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:22 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:24 2008] <Joeb454> also

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:28 2008] <bodhi_zazen> If we go with longer terms, we are asking for a real commitment

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:29 2008] <Joeb454> can people be re-elected straight away

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:37 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:38 2008] <Joeb454> +1 commitment

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:47 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:48 2008] <PrivateVoid> I agree people might resign, but for people who are there and committed I would prefer a longer period of time

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:50 2008] <vor> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:35:57 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:36:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> vor,

[Wed Aug 20 23:36:07 2008] <paultag> brb

[Wed Aug 20 23:36:26 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:36:40 2008] <vor> I don't think term lengths are that important.  Anyone wise enough to be on the council would be wise enough to step down when can no longer do it properly.  I'd hope.

[Wed Aug 20 23:36:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> It seems size is ranging from 3-6

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:03 2008] <Maddeth> I don't think it eeds to be bigger

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:13 2008] <PrivateVoid> If people are able to be in the position a consistency can be maintained -- with the short terms that might not happen

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> If somebody drops off the grid, a new member could be elected to fill their spot.  I also agree that terms are not necessary

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:27 2008] <Maddeth> would be too many people in charge of too few members otherwise

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Who and how do we wish to nominate council members ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:40 2008] <nhandler> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:41 2008] <Maddeth> vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:50 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler,

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:50 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:52 2008] <Bodsda> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:56 2008] <PrivateVoid> I nominate nhandler and Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:37:57 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:38:07 2008] <nhandler> I think we should try and keep the council diverse. We want people with expertise in a wide range of areas

[Wed Aug 20 23:38:16 2008] <nhandler> That way, they can better handle anything that might come up

[Wed Aug 20 23:38:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> JoshuaRL,

[Wed Aug 20 23:38:29 2008] <Alan_M> +1 nhandler

[Wed Aug 20 23:38:43 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 nhandler, but i think bodhi should nominate, team should vote on who they want.

[Wed Aug 20 23:38:46 2008] <Joeb454> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:00 2008] <Maddeth> +1 JoshuaRL

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> People nominated need an opportuinity to decline, if say they are too busy already

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:14 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:15 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I would not be opposed to bodhi_zazen selecting the council, or at least laying out who he wants, then people can vote/for against.  If a problem appears there, somebody else can be voted.

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:16 2008] <vor> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:23 2008] <Joeb454> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:25 2008] <nhandler> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:28 2008] <Maddeth> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> vor,

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:33 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:34 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:39 2008] <Maddeth> my thoughts exactly

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:41 2008] <Alan_M> +2 Rocket2DMn   ;)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:39:55 2008] <Joeb454> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454, then   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:09 2008] <Joeb454> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:18 2008] <vor> Actually, nevermind.  I was going to suggest that having bodhi_zazen nominate and then people vote would determine the size of the team dynamically.  Unfortunately, I don't see how that could be the case.

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Bodsda,

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:41 2008] <Alan_M> Someone?

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:47 2008] <JoshuaRL> heh

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:50 2008] <Joeb454> i think bodhi nominating who would elminate the mass spamming of the channel for a start.

[Wed Aug 20 23:40:55 2008] <Bodsda> I think bodhi should nominate, if any drop out/ dont want to / cant then the team should nominate someone else to fill the position

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454, anything to add ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:21 2008] <Joeb454> I think that it would be nice to have 1 member of the council available at all times

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:32 2008] <Joeb454> i.e. online

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:34 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:40 2008] <Alan_M> joe, yeah we are trying to do that i believe?

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1, if possible

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:48 2008] <Bodsda> +1 if pos

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:50 2008] <Joeb454> we lack eastern members though I believe

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:54 2008] <Rocket2DMn> unfortunately its impossible to tell who will be around when, and how many will be available, we just need an "adequate" number without having too many

[Wed Aug 20 23:41:57 2008] <bodhi_zazen> larger council == more likely someone is on line

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:28 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, number on council then ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:32 2008] <Bodsda> 5

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:36 2008] <Bodsda> 7

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:42 2008] <Joeb454> 35

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I suggest, as I usually do, we start small and add if needed

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:49 2008] <Alan_M> unrealistic joe   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:58 2008] <Bodsda> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:42:59 2008] <Joeb454> Alan_M, 3 ops, 35 total

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:03 2008] <Bodsda> haha

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:07 2008] <Joeb454> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:08 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:21 2008] <vor> 2-4 + bodhi_zazen seems like a reasonable start to me

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:21 2008] <nhandler> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:23 2008] <Alan_M> a few are never here joe   :)   but +1 bodhi

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:33 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:36 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Also, I want to keep this team the way it is now, open to all

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:45 2008] <Bodsda> +lots

[Wed Aug 20 23:43:48 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I do not want the council members to become a status symbol

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:00 2008] <Joeb454> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:21 2008] <JoshuaRL> ah, thats why i joined BT, status

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:22 2008] <Joeb454> vor, I would say 3-5...4-6 if you want to keep it odd

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:26 2008] <bodhi_zazen> How about this then ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:28 2008] <Alan_M> o/ may i comment on that?

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:28 2008] <Joeb454> lol JoshuaRL

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> yes Alan_M

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Lets aim for 2-4 members

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:50 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I think most people here are mature enough to not need "status" symbols, I don't think that is a primary issue.

[Wed Aug 20 23:44:52 2008] <Alan_M> bodhi, i believe the status symbol thing has already been set in the team TBTH with you.....

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:12 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I will give a list of 4 nominations for the next meeting, for a yes or no vote ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:28 2008] <Bodsda> bodhi_zazen, 4 seperate votes maybe?

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> TBTH ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:34 2008] <Joeb454> to be totally honest

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:36 2008] <Bodsda> To be totally honest

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:40 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Did we decide on if we are doing term lengths?  (I was opposed)

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:51 2008] <Bodsda> no, we said no i think

[Wed Aug 20 23:45:56 2008] <Joeb454> I would suggest getting the council voted in today

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:05 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1 Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:14 2008] <Bodsda> + Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:19 2008] <nhandler> +1 Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:20 2008] <Bodsda> 1

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I think bodhi_zazen needs time to consider his options, it would be nice, but there isn't a rush

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:27 2008] <Joeb454> true

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:31 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:36 2008] <Joeb454> but then the meetings can return to normal again

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:42 2008] <paultag> back, sorry guys

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:42 2008] <Bodsda> but bodhi_zazen is a machine, cant he do that calculation in nanoseconds?

[Wed Aug 20 23:46:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to start with the list I posed already

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I would like people on that list to say no if they are not available

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:15 2008] <JoshuaRL> bodhi_zazen: sorry, i started late.  who is on the list?

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:20 2008] <PrivateVoid> the list on the site?

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> If those people can say yes or no today , I can generate a list today

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Team/Structure

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:39 2008] <Bodsda> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Team/Structure#Jedi%20Council

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:44 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am available

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:50 2008] <Rocket2DMn> you have 10 people on that list

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:52 2008] <Joeb454> that would be a 9 member council

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:56 2008] <Joeb454> 10 including yourself

[Wed Aug 20 23:47:59 2008] <Joeb454> unless I can't count

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:00 2008] <nhandler> I am available

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:00 2008] <paultag> I am ready to serve

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:02 2008] <JoshuaRL> my bad, ive already read that

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:03 2008] <Bodsda> its 10

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:09 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am ready

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:13 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am willing

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> One question, odd or even

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:15 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am able

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:19 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I like even

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:22 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:32 2008] <bodhi_zazen> with a split decision made by me

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:32 2008] <Bodsda> bodhi_zazen, as you said earlier, i dont think it matters as long as their is 'enough'

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:35 2008] <Alan_M> I like to be odd...so..obviously my choice is odd   ;)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:37 2008] <JoshuaRL> but nevermind, i already said that

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:38 2008] <bodhi_zazen> even number = more cooperation

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:43 2008] <PrivateVoid> You have the ultimate vote bodhi_zazen so doesn't matter even or odd - IMHO

[Wed Aug 20 23:48:54 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:06 2008] <Joeb454> I would suggest a smaller council than we already have

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:09 2008] <Joeb454> it's rather large

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:16 2008] <Joeb454> though I'm fine with what it is

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:29 2008] <Bodsda> we dont 'need' ten council members

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I suggest :

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:43 2008] <paultag> I think 10 is gine

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:44 2008] <paultag> fine*

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:54 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454, nhandler, PrivateVoid, Rocket2DMn, and vor

[Wed Aug 20 23:49:58 2008] <bodhi_zazen> that is 5

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:08 2008] <Bodsda> 6 if you include yourself bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:12 2008] <Joeb454> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:16 2008] <Bodsda> and i +1 that list

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:21 2008] <PrivateVoid_> what is the vote that is going on?

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> no, I do not count , lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:42 2008] <Bodsda> PrivateVoid, council member list

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:43 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 bodhi_zazen's list

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> not yet PrivateVoid_ but we can move in that direction if the discussion is over

[Wed Aug 20 23:50:50 2008] <PrivateVoid> sorry I got booted

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:00 2008] <PrivateVoid> and votebot messaged me on return

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:03 2008] <Joeb454> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:05 2008] <nhandler> PrivateVoid: bodhi_zazen proposed: Joeb454, nhandler, PrivateVoid, Rocket2DMn, and vor

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:15 2008] <PrivateVoid> ok...

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:24 2008] <Joeb454> I +1 the list (not because I'm on it - I'm indifferent as to whether I am or not)

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:34 2008] <PrivateVoid> I have no issues with the list...

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:37 2008] <JoshuaRL> riiiiiight Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:41 2008] <Bodsda> lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:45 2008] <PrivateVoid> and am honored that you put faith in my bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:53 2008] <Bodsda> in your bodhi?

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:54 2008] <bodhi_zazen> anyone wish any further discussion ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:58 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I'm with Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:51:59 2008] <PrivateVoid> me

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:00 2008] <PrivateVoid> sorry

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:00 2008] <Joeb454> Bodsda, shut up, lol

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> anyone wish to move we vote ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:06 2008] <nhandler> I move for a vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:08 2008] <PrivateVoid> I move to vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:18 2008] <Joeb454> I move for a vote of no confidence in bodhi_zazen's power

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:19 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 VoteBot

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:20 2008] <Bodsda> i move for list = fine

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:22 2008] <Joeb454> oh wait that's star wars...

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:26 2008] <JoshuaRL> or vote, rather

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> LOL Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> we all know bodhi_zazen is incompetent, otherwise why need a team ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:54 2008] <JoshuaRL> haha

[Wed Aug 20 23:52:56 2008] <Bodsda> exactly

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:08 2008] <Bodsda>   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:18 2008] <Rocket2DMn> well to take over the world, he needs an army, so here we are.  sadfl, no "b" in there

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:19 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Should we as the propesed council members to abstain from voting ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:30 2008] <nhandler> +1 for abstaining bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:34 2008] <PrivateVoid> that is fair

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:34 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:45 2008] <Bodsda> i vote for smaller words please

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:47 2008] <Rocket2DMn> If you have problems with anybody on the list, please give a -1

[Wed Aug 20 23:53:52 2008] <Joeb454> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:04 2008] <Rocket2DMn> do your votes privately

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, lest vote then, proposed members please abstain

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:12 2008] <Joeb454> Bodsda, potential councillers cannot vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:18 2008] <Bodsda> ty Joeb454

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:31 2008] <Joeb454> +sideways 8   ;)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:43 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "council of 5 Joeb454 , nhandler , PrivateVoid , Rocket2DMn , and vor ? "

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:43 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: council of 5 Joeb454 , nhandler , PrivateVoid , Rocket2DMn , and vor ? 

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:43 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:43 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:45 2008] <JoshuaRL> Joeb454: nice

[Wed Aug 20 23:54:48 2008] <paultag> 0

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:14 2008] <Bodsda> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:23 2008] <Joeb454> like zomg minuz 10kagiliionds""111!!!

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:46 2008] <Bodsda> anyone else gonna vote?

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:52 2008] <Rocket2DMn> uhh who didnt vote, we had 11 before, take away 5

[Wed Aug 20 23:55:58 2008] <Joeb454> makes 6

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:09 2008] <JoshuaRL> two didnt vote.  one is bodhi

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:16 2008] <y_lee> I voted

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:19 2008] <Joeb454> Maddeth?

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> no, I have not voted on any issue today

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:23 2008] <Joeb454> Alan_M

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> tinivole,

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:31 2008] <Bodsda> i have voted

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:32 2008] <Maddeth> literally just got back from afk

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:38 2008] <Joeb454> Maddeth, see above

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:43 2008] <Bodsda> vote damn you Maddeth

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:46 2008] <Joeb454> tinivole and st33med have been absent for the whole meeting

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:47 2008] <Bodsda>   :)  

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:49 2008] <Maddeth> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:50 2008] <JoshuaRL> Maddeth: pretty important

[Wed Aug 20 23:56:58 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vstatus

[Wed Aug 20 23:57:10 2008] <JoshuaRL> st33med: attention, your presence is needed

[Wed Aug 20 23:57:29 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone else wanting to vote ...

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:10 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:10 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: council of 5 Joeb454 , nhandler , PrivateVoid , Rocket2DMn , and vor ? 

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:10 2008] <VoteBot> 5 People Voted. 4 People For. 0 People Against. 1 People Neutral.

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome Jedi Council

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:48 2008] <bodhi_zazen> May you rule with wisdom

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:54 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:54 2008] <JoshuaRL> heh

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:58 2008] <Maddeth> what have we done

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:59 2008] <PrivateVoid> thanks all... I will do my best to help the team grow

[Wed Aug 20 23:58:59 2008] <nhandler> May the force be with us all

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:05 2008] <Bodsda> lol Maddeth

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:18 2008] <JoshuaRL> so this is how democracy dies

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:22 2008] <bodhi_zazen> does the team wish to vote on who can op this channel ?

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:40 2008] <Joeb454> vor, you can be my apprentice

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:44 2008] <Rocket2DMn> we could, but is it necessary?

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:44 2008] <Joeb454> I'm the secret sith lord

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:47 2008] <Bodsda> me votes for removal of joes powers due to his kicking habits j/k

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:49 2008] <nhandler> I think this should be voted on by the full BT. It does not need to be council only

[Wed Aug 20 23:59:59 2008] <Joeb454> -m?

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:08 2008] <Joeb454> meetings been going about an hour now

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> no , not -m yet ...

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Lets discuss the new channel

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ##beginners-council

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:34 2008] <Joeb454> should it not be for the council to decide?

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:36 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to leave it open

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:51 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454, yes, but I would like a little team discussion

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:53 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 Joeb454, let you guys decide what you need

[Thu Aug 21 00:00:55 2008] <Rocket2DMn> what if the council needs to vote or discuss?

[Thu Aug 21 00:01:12 2008] <bodhi_zazen> There has been a request to not chit-chat on the channel, bring it back here

[Thu Aug 21 00:01:12 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:01:14 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would like to leave it open as well... but can see a potential to have it closed...

[Thu Aug 21 00:01:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think there will always be chit-chat on the channel

[Thu Aug 21 00:01:41 2008] <nhandler> I also feel all normal discussion should occur here. The -council channel should be for council-related business

[Thu Aug 21 00:01:52 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> personally, I do not think there is any reason to close the channel UNLESS we need to maintain a members dignity

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:17 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:20 2008] <Bodsda> +1

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:38 2008] <PrivateVoid> I agree bodhi_zazen that was what I was thinking off

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:39 2008] <PrivateVoid> of

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:53 2008] <Joeb454> bodhi_zazen, by close you mean +i

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:53 2008] <PrivateVoid> there may be a need for the council to address a 'private' issue

[Thu Aug 21 00:02:59 2008] <vor> I'm fine with all of that.  I would prefer that chit chat happen here and not in the council channel but, I'm certainly not about to get upset if that doesn't always happen.

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:03 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Perhaps non council members should only join the channel if they have an issue to present?  Otherwise chit chat will occur, which can be distracting

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Joeb454, yes, +i and / or +m

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:19 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:31 2008] <Joeb454> +m anybody could still join and read

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> yes Joeb454   :)  

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:47 2008] <Rocket2DMn> but then how do they present problems if they cant speak?

[Thu Aug 21 00:03:59 2008] <Joeb454> Rocket2DMn, I think +m for most council meetings

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:01 2008] <PrivateVoid> I think that when the council is meeting on discipline issues that it should be closed -- to preserve the members privacy... but all other times it should be open

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:04 2008] <JoshuaRL> Rocket2DMn: pm one of the council

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I am uncomfortable with closed sessions, although there will be a time when it is needed

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:22 2008] <Joeb454> but +i for closed sessions if it regards private matters etc.

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1 PrivateVoid

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:29 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 bodhi_zazen and Joeb454

[Thu Aug 21 00:04:56 2008] <Joeb454> Rocket2DMn, with +m only council members could talk, but anybody could join the channel and see what is being discussed

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:00 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I Think I would prefer the council's decisions appear to be unified and effectively unanimous as far as the team is concerned

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:22 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "##beginners-council open ? "

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:22 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: ##beginners-council open ? 

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:22 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:22 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:31 2008] <vor> 0

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:32 2008] <nhandler> 0

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:37 2008] <y_lee> +1

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:39 2008] <Joeb454> 0

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:39 2008] <vor> I'm not ashamed of my opinion or thoughts

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:50 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Thu Aug 21 00:05:56 2008] <Bodsda> sorry guys, got an early start, have to hit the sack

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:00 2008] <JoshuaRL> and strong they are vor

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:01 2008] <PrivateVoid> 0

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:03 2008] <Joeb454> I've stated what I think

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:06 2008] <Bodsda> bye

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:13 2008] <Joeb454> +m for 99% of the time

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:21 2008] <Joeb454> well, 99% of meetings

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:34 2008] <Joeb454> that way anybody can still sit in on proceedings

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:40 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: ##beginners-council open ? 

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:40 2008] <VoteBot> 7 People Voted. 2 People For. 1 People Against. 4 People Neutral.

[Thu Aug 21 00:06:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, thanks for the input

[Thu Aug 21 00:07:03 2008] <bodhi_zazen> any other questions / issues ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:07:12 2008] <bodhi_zazen> should we move to close this meeting ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:07:22 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I have a question

[Thu Aug 21 00:07:28 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go Rocket2DMn

[Thu Aug 21 00:07:53 2008] <Rocket2DMn> On the wiki under Council it talks about IRC behavior as well as some recruiting stuff, like quiz

[Thu Aug 21 00:08:25 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I'm not entirely sure if those fall under the council's immediate job description

[Thu Aug 21 00:08:38 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think the wiki page needs to be updated   :)  

[Thu Aug 21 00:08:44 2008] <bodhi_zazen> especially re: quiz

[Thu Aug 21 00:08:50 2008] <Rocket2DMn> With the team now organized in to a more solid structure, do you now have more time to do the quizzes yourself still?

[Thu Aug 21 00:09:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Well, one question, should we open the quiz to the council members to run, not just myself ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:09:47 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1

[Thu Aug 21 00:09:51 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:09:56 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:10:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> And what do you think should be added or removed from the functions of the council Rocket2DMn ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:10:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> sec JoshuaRL and PrivateVoid

[Thu Aug 21 00:10:29 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I prefer just you, bodhi_zazen , if it really becomes a problem, then we can look into delegating, either to council or the new member FG (or w/e its called)

[Thu Aug 21 00:10:29 2008] <JoshuaRL> k

[Thu Aug 21 00:10:41 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would prefer you and the education focus group leaders to run the quizes...

[Thu Aug 21 00:10:56 2008] <PrivateVoid> perhaps the new members (Padawan) focus group

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I can go with PrivateVoid 's suggestion

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:15 2008] <nhandler> Which one of his suggestions bodhi_zazen ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:24 2008] <PrivateVoid> I prefer the initial one

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:33 2008] <JoshuaRL> +1 education FG

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think it is important to maintain some consistency re : quiz

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:42 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would like to, as the Padawan, team meber 'prepare' the padawans

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:42 2008] <JoshuaRL> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:11:43 2008] <nhandler> PrivateVoid: You are aware that I am currently the only leader of the Education FG

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:07 2008] <bodhi_zazen> JoshuaRL,

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:09 2008] <vor> I have to run for about 10 minutes.  My vote can be considered PrivateVoid && Rocket2DMn in the meantime.

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:26 2008] <vor> Wait, I need to be more clever PrivateVoid & Rocket2DMn.  Back in a sec.

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:26 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I'd prefer the Padawan FG leader to do the quiz

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> -1 for me, I don't want to dish out the quiz

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:53 2008] <JoshuaRL> i bodhi_zazen should do the quiz if possible, but if not the leaders of the education FG

[Thu Aug 21 00:12:58 2008] <PrivateVoid> I was looking for nhandler to do it...

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:14 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would think it a conflict if I help them 'learn' and quiz them

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:23 2008] <PrivateVoid> but I guess that is what teachers do... so maybe not

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, for quiz, I shall keep that responsibility for now, PrivateVoid can notify me when a padawan is ready ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:35 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am up to it,... the team can decide.

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:40 2008] <PrivateVoid> sounds good

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:45 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:47 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Thu Aug 21 00:13:51 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Thu Aug 21 00:14:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK

[Thu Aug 21 00:14:19 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Any other issues to discuss

[Thu Aug 21 00:14:33 2008] <y_lee> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:14:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> y_lee,

[Thu Aug 21 00:15:01 2008] <y_lee> several items have not been discussed like !prayer beefore meetings

[Thu Aug 21 00:15:12 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1 y_lee

[Thu Aug 21 00:15:19 2008] <PrivateVoid> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:15:23 2008] <y_lee> tho they can be postponed

[Thu Aug 21 00:15:30 2008] <Rocket2DMn> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:15:57 2008] <JoshuaRL> i g2g, work calls

[Thu Aug 21 00:16:03 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol

[Thu Aug 21 00:16:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn,

[Thu Aug 21 00:16:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> PrivateVoid, had his hand up first

[Thu Aug 21 00:16:28 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, PrivateVoid   :)  

[Thu Aug 21 00:16:34 2008] <PrivateVoid> I agree with y_lee we should vote on the prayer

[Thu Aug 21 00:16:53 2008] <JoshuaRL|away> -1 prayer

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:13 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Prayer : OMG, what have I gotten myself into

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:27 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i guess PV died, I think if we choose to use !prayer, bodhi_zazen should deliver it to signal the official beginning of the meeting

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:42 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am here

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:47 2008] <Rocket2DMn> we could rename it if the term is offensive to people, and reword what it sys

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:49 2008] <PrivateVoid> I said we should vote on it

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:53 2008] <y_lee> o/

[Thu Aug 21 00:17:57 2008] <bodhi_zazen> y_lee,

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:05 2008] <PrivateVoid> anyone hear me?

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> yes PrivateVoid

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:18 2008] <PrivateVoid> k

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:25 2008] <y_lee> yes i am worried the prayer and deity concept may be offencive to some

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> what is the role of a prayer exactly ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:40 2008] <PrivateVoid> !pryaer

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:40 2008] <ubot3> Factoid pryaer not found

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:44 2008] <PrivateVoid> !prayer

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:44 2008] <nhandler> !prayer

[Thu Aug 21 00:18:44 2008] <ubot3> Dear $DEITY, Give me strength to understand and work with users who question my logic, the rules, netiquette and common sense. Give me resilience to teach them the basics of Linux, Ubuntu, Community Guidelines and IRC. Allow me not to stray to nitpicking, argument, foul language or leisure op abuse. Deliver me my daily xkcd, User Friendly, LWN, /. and Planet Ubuntu, and guard over my encrypted drives. Let it be so.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:14 2008] <y_lee> it is cool but the "new atheists" might and prob would be offended

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:21 2008] <PrivateVoid> I do not like the name prayer, nor do I see a need to start meetings with some pledge, oath or other formal nonsense

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:30 2008] <nhandler> +1 PrivateVoid

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> How about this :

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:34 2008] <y_lee> +1 PrivateVoid

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Let us Pray

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Our Linus, Who art in Tux Land,

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Hallowed be Thy Operating System.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Thy Kingdom come.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Thy Will be done, on Desktop as it is on Servers.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:43 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Give us this day our daily kernel.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> And forgive us our dependencies,

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:47 2008] <bodhi_zazen> as we forgive those who Ubuntu against us.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:48 2008] <PrivateVoid> -1 bodhi_zazen

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> And lead us not into Apple,

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:51 2008] <bodhi_zazen> but deliver us from Vista.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Debian.

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:57 2008] <Joeb454> rofl

[Thu Aug 21 00:19:59 2008] <y_lee> hahaha

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:06 2008] <PrivateVoid> good joke, but no to that being an actual prayer

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:19 2008] <nhandler> Is there anything else that needs to be discussed

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> should we move to close the meeting ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:39 2008] <PrivateVoid> I move to vote on using a prayer before we close

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:40 2008] <nhandler> +1 for closing the meeting

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:40 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1 for closing

[Thu Aug 21 00:20:54 2008] <bodhi_zazen> second to vote on prayer ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:21:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> second to close meeting ?

[Thu Aug 21 00:21:43 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i second that

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, I am not opposed to a prayer, but it seems not too popular at the moment

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:23 2008] <PrivateVoid> I do not want it either

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> feel free to put it on the agenda @ next meeting

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:30 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am dead set against it

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:37 2008] <PrivateVoid> would rather a monthly Dilbert joke

[Thu Aug 21 00:22:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Meeting closed   :)  
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
