{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Outcome ===
* Masters are to be renamed to Guides. <nowiki>[[http://doodle.com/3w8azia4bwnwv8fk]]</nowiki>
* Started a poll to suggest changing the name for padawan. poll closes on sunday. <nowiki>[[http://doodle.com/8dbs4yaq6fgksdgk]]</nowiki>
* Suggestion to read <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-beginners/2011-April/001916.html]]</nowiki>

* UDS-O blueprint from UBT. <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-projects/+spec/community-o-ubuntu-beginners]]</nowiki>

* Suggestion to put an entry notice on #ubuntu-beginners
   maybe we should add an entry message saying response time may vary but often is within 10 minutes when people know an answer and that they can also ask their question in #ubuntu
   To be discussed by the support FG.

== Full Log ==
=== Improving UBT ===
<pre>
<cprofitt> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 18:03. The chair is cprofitt.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<cprofitt> hello all... All UBT members please say here
<UndiFineD> here
<MrChrisDruif> there
<UndiFineD> everywhere
<MrChrisDruif> Indeed
<cprofitt> alright... well...
<cprofitt> I think the Doodle poll was rather conclusive
<UndiFineD> same here
<MrChrisDruif> It kinda was.
<cprofitt> does anyone object to adopting the name pair of guide and student to replace master and padawan?
<MrChrisDruif> Maybe link to the doodle for reference?
<MrChrisDruif> Student?
<cprofitt> [LINK] http://doodle.com/3w8azia4bwnwv8fk
<MootBot> LINK received:  http://doodle.com/3w8azia4bwnwv8fk
<MrChrisDruif> cprofitt: There was only a vote for the new Master name
<hajour> o/
<UndiFineD> should I close it down tomorrow ?
<JackyAlcine> o/
<hajour> here
<cprofitt> [VOTE] Adopt the title pair of Guide and Student to replace Master and Padwan
<MootBot> Please vote on:  Adopt the title pair of Guide and Student to replace Master and Padwan.
<MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
<MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
<cprofitt> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from cprofitt. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<UndiFineD> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from UndiFineD. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<MrChrisDruif> -1
<MootBot> -1 received from MrChrisDruif. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
<MrChrisDruif> There was never a vote about the new naming for student
<hajour> +1
<MootBot> +1 received from hajour. 3 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
<UndiFineD> I could draw up an other doodle if wanted
<cprofitt> MrChrisDruif: correct -- there was no poll for it
<cprofitt> that is why I wanted to vote here on the subject
<cprofitt> any more votes?
<MrChrisDruif> Hence I voted against the pair of Guide and Student.
<hajour> not many around i think in meeting
<MrChrisDruif> JackyAlcine: ^
<cprofitt> last call for votes
<cprofitt> [ENDVOTE]
<MootBot> Final result is 3 for, 1 against. 0 abstained. Total: 2
<cprofitt> [AGREED] UBT to adopt Guide and Student in place of Master and Padawan
<MootBot> AGREED received:  UBT to adopt Guide and Student in place of Master and Padawan
<UndiFineD> hmmm, not really represenative for our team cprofitt 
<cprofitt> UndiFineD: were there any other options for student put forth?
<UndiFineD> yes
<MrChrisDruif> I agree with the Guide (as is seen on the Doodle. I object against the Student
<MrChrisDruif> Apprentice?
<cprofitt> if you want to make a poll we can do that
<cprofitt> I was only aware of student... but if there were others we can have a poll
<MrChrisDruif> And I've seen other pass the avenue
<UndiFineD> I proposed Student
<UndiFineD> During the meeting Apprentice was suggested
<UndiFineD> In the past I have also used Mentee
<hajour> i think a poll would be good to make cprofitt
<cprofitt> well Mentee is for the Mentor / Mentee
<cprofitt> so already in use
<cprofitt> hajour: I agree
<MrChrisDruif> +1
<cprofitt> lets make a poll for the padawan replacement
<MrChrisDruif> Agreed
<UndiFineD> ok
<cprofitt> [AGREED] to hold on the padawan replacement and put a poll up
<MootBot> AGREED received:  to hold on the padawan replacement and put a poll up
<hajour> welcome jledbetter
<UndiFineD> will do so after the meeting then
<cprofitt> I want to put a poll up and have it finish Sunday
<cprofitt> no need to have it drag on for multiple weeks
<UndiFineD> ok
<hajour> yes also noting the uds is coming many are very busy to prepare for uds cprofitt
<UndiFineD> do we need to start anything else for improving UBT: https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-beginners/2011-April/001916.html
<cprofitt> hajour: the same reason I would like the title in place
</pre>
=== UDS blueprint from UBT ===
<pre>
<cprofitt> so we can use it at UDS
<hajour> a ok i understand
<jledbetter> o/
<cprofitt> it takes very little time to go to a poll and click
<cprofitt> jledbetter: ?
<jledbetter> Saying I'm here. Sorry.
<cprofitt> [LINK] https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-projects/+spec/community-o-ubuntu-beginners
<MootBot> LINK received:  https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-projects/+spec/community-o-ubuntu-beginners
<cprofitt> np
<cprofitt> UndiFineD: you have the floor
<UndiFineD> well, we started on this blueprint together, do we need to add anything else onto it ?
<UndiFineD> it talks of continued improvements
<UndiFineD> and our lack of motu people
<UndiFineD> I hope our little community is more widely known now, and we can attract the old guard
<UndiFineD> and perhaps even help canonical people into the community
<MrChrisDruif> That last part shouldn't be too difficult....if only they wanted to come into the community :P
<UndiFineD> MrChrisDruif, they do, and often I see them fail at the community boards
</pre>
=== support on #ubuntu-beginners ===
<pre>
<hajour> i was thinking on shift turns for helping in ubuntu-beginners no often there is no respond on questions very long time or all are there the same time
<hajour> just a idea
<MrChrisDruif> "Working in shifts"?
<MrChrisDruif> We're no company
<UndiFineD> we flock ?
<hajour> just that there is at least a few
<cprofitt> hajour: I think we do a good job of filling the IRC channel
<cprofitt> I would be opposed to having scheduled shifts
<MrChrisDruif> +1 on that
<cprofitt> we have enough trouble figuring out GMT vs. UTC vs. EDT
<UndiFineD> the irc channel is filled, but response time is the issue
<hajour> UndiFineD,  explains what i meant
<jledbetter> lol cprofitt
<cprofitt> UndiFineD: we can not garauntee a response time
<MrChrisDruif> Not always btw
<cprofitt> even if we took shifts we can not garauntee that the people in the channel would know the answer
<jledbetter> I was just typing that, cprofitt.
<cprofitt> I also think placing a formality to the role of a volunteer takes away the volunteer part of it
<UndiFineD> that is true as well
<hajour> what i mean is in guide there is standing put in your question answer comes later but a part never get answer
<cprofitt> hajour: true... and I expect that to happen
<UndiFineD> to fix time issues: http://dl.dropbox.com/u/7607669/desktop/time.png
<MrChrisDruif> Guide? I've never heard of that, other then being the new (approved?) name for master
<hajour> when i came in channel it was write somewhere that it works that way MrChrisDruif  not remember exactly where anymore
<hajour> a answer also can be to send you to a channel where can be answered
<MrChrisDruif> I only see in the topic that you can directly start asking questions; if anybody knows the answer, they will most likely reply
<hajour> often is told to people put in the question they read back and then you later most of time get a answer.
<cprofitt> are we good on this topic? or should we take it to mailing list?
<MrChrisDruif> You mean that when the active people on IRC don't know the answer, that they should put it on the forums?
<hajour> i not know i just said what i had noticed
<cprofitt> I think it is an excellent topic for the support FG to address more completely
<MrChrisDruif> :D
<hajour> that can but if you are new often you not know how the forum works
<UndiFineD> cprofitt, maybe we should add an entry message saying response time may vary but often is within 10 minutes
<cprofitt> UndiFineD: we could...
<cprofitt> not sure how many would see that in the topic
<UndiFineD> when people know an answer
<cprofitt> but it is a good question for the FG to figure out
<jledbetter> +1 to support talking amongst itself and going to the ML later
<MrChrisDruif> And also, it's not guaranteed; no need to put something like that in the topic
<UndiFineD> and that they can also ask their question in #ubuntu
<hajour> UndiFineD,  types my idea now
<cprofitt> UndiFineD: can you share the UDS Blueprint with the general mailing list too?
<UndiFineD> sure
<hajour> thanks UndiFineD
</pre>
=== taking on padawans ===
<pre>
<cprofitt> jledbetter: did you have any response from kdotj?
<cprofitt> or Gamegoodfs2
<cprofitt> I am going to remove the folks on our list that have been contacted
<jledbetter> cprofitt, Everybody that I contacted wanted to have a master. If someone said no or didn't reply, I would have removed him/her
<hajour> the thing is not all people have a own pc.many have to share it and kids often must do the pc offline in night
<cprofitt> unless you had conversations with them
<cprofitt> ok... so you contacted them, but did not take them on...
<UndiFineD> I have room for 1 more
<jledbetter> Yeah. That was before I was officially allowed.
<hajour> so its often not possible to wait on a answer that i mean cprofitt
<cprofitt> for the guide ???? you can take on more than one... potentially several since you are really just getting them setup with the basics
<UndiFineD> I already have 2 now
<jledbetter> Yeah. Documentation says we had to be approved.
<MrChrisDruif> Btw, should all the Guides be in all the FG IRC's? Getting to know all the mentors?
<cprofitt> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership
<MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership
<cprofitt> MrChrisDruif: no... the guides need not do that
<cprofitt> please take a look at that list and try to contact the people who have not been listed as contacted
<cprofitt> I usually try to stay w/in my time zone, but for basic information email can work as well
<UndiFineD> I started numbering them, so we maintain some order of new entries
<UndiFineD> see who has been on the list longest
<cprofitt> if you are willing to take a person on you can send them an email
<cprofitt> and note that you sent a contact out
<cprofitt> once you take them on remove them from this list
<MrChrisDruif> How would a Guide be a good help if for instance he knows a lot about wiki stuff and nothing about bug triaging? Or development? How would he direct them in the right way? Just saying "Go to that channel and ask for a mentor?"
<cprofitt> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
<MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Mentors
<cprofitt> and add them to that list
<cprofitt> MrChrisDruif: a guide just has to help a person throught he basics...
<cprofitt> getting an LP account, the CoC, starting a wiki page
<cprofitt> they do not have to be an expert
<cprofitt> the Mentors are the experts in particular areas
<UndiFineD> I think I should take over JasonO from pedro, who has been away for a long time now
<cprofitt> UndiFineD: +1
<jledbetter> Don't we have someone that's lead of the mentor/master/guide program?
<hajour> UndiFineD,  already is guiding JasonO  the most btw
<cprofitt> subscribing to the membership page will send you email alerts when people signup
<cprofitt> and is a good way to ensure we try contacting these people quickly
<cprofitt> for example
<cprofitt> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/dlopez12
<MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/dlopez12
<cprofitt> read his page -- in regards to UBT
<cprofitt> he edited the membership page on 3-13,, set a goal of being a member by May 1st
<cprofitt> and has not been contacted yet
<cprofitt> we need to try to ensure that we get to people more quickly than that
<MrChrisDruif> cprofitt: Setting a goal is all fine and dandy of course, but if he isn't even contacted, how would he know how long it takes to become a member?
<jledbetter> Maybe we should batch people a little.
<cprofitt> MrChrisDruif: I agree...
<UndiFineD> and I have not even seen him around our channels
<cprofitt> But us not contacting the person for over a month is not a good thing either
<UndiFineD> so how serious is he
<cprofitt> some people may not follow through, but I want to ensure we do
<cprofitt> we can question them, but that is truly unfair given that we have not follow through either
<cprofitt> that is why I would like to see - the contacted by / date
<MrChrisDruif> We work best in IRC...
<JasonO> hajour I'm here.
<jledbetter> Some work best in email :)
<MrChrisDruif> Aloha JasonO
<cprofitt> if those people have not been removed from the list within 30 days of being contacted then we should remove them from the list
<JasonO> Hi MrChrisDruif
<hajour> ok great hello JasonO
<cprofitt> MrChrisDruif: the UBT works in email, forums, ask ubuntu and IRC
<cprofitt> so we need to at least try to contact folks via email
<JasonO> Hi hajour
<jledbetter> And if via email can work outside our time zone
<cprofitt> jledbetter: can you take on those people that said they want a guide?
<cprofitt> that you contacted?
<jledbetter> cprofitt, Yes, but I fear, frankly, being stretched too thin.
<cprofitt> jledbetter: take one what you can -- and pass the others to me
<cprofitt> I will get them started
<UndiFineD> duane has taken on some new ones too
<jledbetter> cprofitt, Ok, thank you. I'll contact them tonight.
<cprofitt> thanks jledbetter
<cprofitt> we need to remove people from that list if we have taken them on
<cprofitt> any other topics from the floor?
<MrChrisDruif> Can the European people finally go to bed?
<MrChrisDruif> :P
<cprofitt> MrChrisDruif: yes
<cprofitt> thanks for coming everyone
<hajour>  hehe MrChrisDruif
<UndiFineD> thanks people
<cprofitt> I apologize for screwing up the GMT UTC stuff
<MrChrisDruif> Your welcome, I'll see the doodle in the mail :P
<cprofitt> #endmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:46.
<UndiFineD> I will create the poll, update the wiki
<hajour> np cprofitt
<MrChrisDruif> The wiki? Let me :D
<hajour> UndiFineD,  is in pm but says ok MrChrisDruif
<MrChrisDruif> Working as we speak, also a clean up ;)
</pre>
