{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Besides voting on new members, there will be no voting at these meetings. The Beginners Team Council will review all discussions and will vote on issues once they are ready to be voted on.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| 
| 
|-
| duanedesign
| Focus Group wiki pages
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

=== Log ===
<pre>
<MootBot> Meeting started at 18:02. The chair is duanedesign.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
* Ng has quit (Read error: Operation timed out)
* huats (~chris@ubuntu/member/huats) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<duanedesign> [TOPIC] Review List Of Prospective Members In Need Of Mentor.
<MootBot> New Topic:  Review List Of Prospective Members In Need Of Mentor.
<duanedesign> we have 6 people on the prospective list looking for mentors
<duanedesign> i cleaned this out recently... there are still a couple i have not seen in awhile
<nhandler> duanedesign: You are skipping your agenda item? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
<duanedesign> nhandler: i was going to do it last
<nhandler> Ok
<duanedesign> or at least  after a few items. In hopes some peps might show up
<duanedesign> peeps*
<duanedesign> :P
<duanedesign> Nu2boonage is one on the list i have seenn around a lot
<duanedesign> so we should at least try and make a point to get them a mentor
<PabloRubianes> I think I can have on Prospect 
<PabloRubianes> as mine is having some pesonal issues with life and little time, I can help other 
<nhandler> Great PabloRubianes.
<duanedesign> sounds good.
<duanedesign> We also need to clean up that master list
<nhandler> PabloRubianes: Can you inform him about this and update the wiki list?
<PabloRubianes> I will talk to him, if he wants me as tutor :P
<duanedesign> [ACTION] pablorubianes to mentor nUboon2Age
<MootBot> ACTION received:  pablorubianes to mentor nUboon2Age
<duanedesign> we should make an attempt to see if those people on the list are still around
<duanedesign> if you see any of them around please make note of it so we can determine who is still around and in need of a mentor
<duanedesign> doews anyone here have a prospect?
* pedro3005 (~pedro@unaffiliated/pedro3005) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<duanedesign> PabloRubianes: you already told us yours was having an issue
<duanedesign> i do :)
<PabloRubianes> not an issue, more like wife pregnant and little time
<duanedesign> malev and km0r3 are doing great
<duanedesign> PabloRubianes: that will do it
<duanedesign> :)
<duanedesign> i would love to try and get km0r3 and malev to be voted on soon
<PabloRubianes> they are cool people!
<duanedesign> they have shown great commitment over the last several months
* nUboon2Age (~glorious@adsl-69-109-9-97.dsl.renocs.pacbell.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<duanedesign> shredder12 is another prospect i have. He has also been a prospect for awhile
<duanedesign> so if you have a chance get to know  them as I would like to vote on them soon
<nhandler> I have been doing some work with phillw for a while now.
<duanedesign> phillw does ggreat work in #ubuntu-beginners
<nhandler> He has also been doing some good work in the greater community
<duanedesign> thats great
* nellery has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<duanedesign> hello nUboon2Age
* nellery (~nick.elle@ubuntu/member/nickellery) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<nUboon2Age> phillw: lots of work on promoting lubuntu
<nUboon2Age> duanedesign: hey duanedesign
<duanedesign> we were just talking about you :) all good of course
<nUboon2Age> :)
<duanedesign> nUboon2Age: i think PabloRubianes is going to talk to you after the meeting about being your mentor
<PabloRubianes> I already did
<nUboon2Age> PabloRubianes just came and 'got' me. :)
<duanedesign> well great!
<duanedesign> ok
<duanedesign> [TOPIC] Focus Group wiki pages
<MootBot> New Topic:  Focus Group wiki pages
<duanedesign> i sent an email out last month outlining some focus group goals, Tasks and trying to get the mission of the Focus groups figured out
<duanedesign> or at least get the mission in writing so everyone understands what it is we are doing in each group
* ogasawara has quit (Ping timeout: 258 seconds)
<duanedesign> the Tasks are to be items people can reference when they want to do something for that Focus Ggroup
<duanedesign> i get asked a lot I am interested in * FG what cann I do
<duanedesign> so we have a list, and that list will also be a roadmap for that person to become better educated about that area of the community
<duanedesign> also our Focus Groups need to work harder at getting our members establisheed in the broader community
<duanedesign> if you are in the wikiFG you should be working towards 'wiki admin group'
<duanedesign> launchpadFG --> Bug Control
<duanedesign> Dev --> MOTU
<duanedesign> etc, etc
* ogasawara (~ogasawara@emiko.tpi.com) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<nhandler> Well, working towards those teams is less important than working with them imo
<duanedesign> so we have a rough outline in the email i sent out. We need to take that and  put it into our Focus Group wiki pages
<duanedesign> nhandler: that is a valid point
<duanedesign> if you work with them the other will come as a natural progression
<duanedesign> i think the Focus Group pages should follow a more uniform outline
<duanedesign> they should all generally want to convey the same information. There willl be variation, but for the most part they should be similar
<duanedesign> i think this will help make info easier to find and help insure each FG covers all its bases on their wiki page
<nhandler> duanedesign: Do you think it would help if we made a generic template?
<duanedesign> nhandler: that is a good idea.
<PabloRubianes> they (pages) should have info in order people get into the FGs in the propper way...
<nhandler> Might be a good task for the wiki fg
<duanedesign> the wiki FG page is pretty good
* ogasawara has quit (Ping timeout: 258 seconds)
<duanedesign> i added a little 'header' at the top of each page. With info about each team. Email, IRC channel, etc.
<duanedesign> someone suggesed having the lead in that group of info...
<duanedesign> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki
<duanedesign> example^
<nUboon2Age> note: i didn't even know about the idea of FG's until Zach explained it to me.  there was little information about it on the wikis.  i like the idea of creating more obvious paths for people to move through to become more involved with the community.
<duanedesign> nUboon2Age: that is a good point.
<PabloRubianes> one thing is not importan the email, as we only have one ML 
<PabloRubianes> important*
* Ng (~cmsj@chatukipa.tenshu.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<PabloRubianes> and the Wiki FG wiki is really helpfull
<duanedesign> we have this page   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups
<duanedesign> maybe incorporate some of that into the main page?
* blak111 (~Kevin@host-69-145-121-92.but-mt.client.bresnan.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<duanedesign> the little table with the 'if you are interested in X see Y'
<duanedesign> PabloRubianes: good point about  email
<duanedesign> I will email the list and try and get some volunteers to work on the wiki
<duanedesign> and talk with swoody about the wiki FG helping
<duanedesign> [ACTION] duanedesign email BTML about focus group wiki page reworking
<MootBot> ACTION received:  duanedesign email BTML about focus group wiki page reworking
<duanedesign> [IDEA] make a template for focus group pages to follow
<MootBot> IDEA received:  make a template for focus group pages to follow
* Ng has quit (Ping timeout: 276 seconds)
<duanedesign> i dont think we have anyone to vote on?
<PabloRubianes> i don't think so
<nUboon2Age> to amend what i said before about having more obvious paths to move through to get more involved w/ community, i agree with nhandler that it seems to me more important to work with a team rather than be a part of one.
<duanedesign> nUboon2Age: do you think adding the table that is on the Focus Group page to the mainpage would help?
* merriam (~merriam@wmerriam.gotadsl.co.uk) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<nUboon2Age> since people's participation waxes and wanes, and not everyone is a 'joiner', but everyone can appreciate having some structured paths, and expectation setting.
<duanedesign> definetly.
<duanedesign> I think getting the 'structured path' a little more organized for each Focus group would help alot
<nUboon2Age> duanedesign: adding it to which main page?
<nUboon2Age> oh probably you mean the BT main page.
<duanedesign> the beginners team main page
<duanedesign> :)
* ogasawara (~ogasawara@emiko.tpi.com) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<duanedesign> there was talk of redoing this page at UDS and the BT possibly helping with that. http://www.ubuntu.com/community
<nhandler> duanedesign: cjohnston was working on that iirc
<duanedesign> however that currently IMHO is beyond our resources at the moment. Would be nice to work towards having the momentum and manpower to do something like that
<duanedesign> nhandler: yes, he was.
<duanedesign> ok
<duanedesign> any volunteers to do post meeting tasks?
<nUboon2Age> duanedesign: looking at the main bt page again for the first time in a bit its definately shaping up.  I like the friendly focus group buttons from the other page, so that might work.  having just seen them for the first time i don't have a definite response. ;)
* nhandler would prefer not to do them again
<duanedesign> nUboon2Age: it is definetly good to get a perspective from a new eye
<duanedesign> Update Next meeting time on the wiki
<duanedesign> Keep BeginnersTeam/TeamReports updated.
* DavidLevin has quit (Ping timeout: 276 seconds)
<nhandler> Don't forget Send meeting minutes to ubuntu-beginners mailing list
* bjf has quit (Quit: Leaving)
<duanedesign> put the logs on the wiki
<duanedesign> and send to ML
<duanedesign> ok anything else?
<duanedesign> anyone?
<duanedesign> <.<  >.>
<nhandler> PabloRubianes or nUboon2Age: Either of you up for it?
* km0r3 (~km0r3@sunjammer.sugarlabs.org) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<duanedesign> i can do one of them
<PabloRubianes> yes
<nUboon2Age> duanedesign: i didn't catch the whole meeting and would prefer to observe for now. thanks.
<duanedesign> ok then
<duanedesign> oh one more thing
<duanedesign> Diego is starting to organize classes that are Development related
<duanedesign> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Academy
<duanedesign> right now there is a C++ class that is taking shape
<nhandler> Hmm...I should talk to him with my classroom hat on
* oubiwann-away is now known as oubiwann
<duanedesign> should start in about a week
<duanedesign> nhandler: would your idea be that it should be in #ubuntu-classroom
<duanedesign> and open/advertised to the broader community?
<nhandler> duanedesign: Probably. But I'd need to look into the nature of the classes a bit more
<duanedesign> ok
<duanedesign> if anyone has an idea for a class or wants to participate see the wiki page
<duanedesign> or talk to Diego. I have also been trying to get mohi to join in this effort
<duanedesign> he has done a good job organizing classes in ##learners
<duanedesign> ok i think that is it :)
<duanedesign> one more time anyone have anything to add
<duanedesign> #endmeeting
</pre>

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
