{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntu-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| BodhiZazen
| Team channels, support in main channel or -help
|-
| BodhiZazen
| BT Roadmap
|-
| ibuclaw
| Remove the Stalkers FG from BT Structure
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists
|-
| <nowiki>[[meindian523|Easwar]]</nowiki>
| Decision on logging of #ubuntu-beginners
|-
| <nowiki>[[cprofitt]]</nowiki>
| Security Focus Group Plans for next year
|-
| <nowiki>[[leoquant]]</nowiki>
| Unvoice members of the beginners team in #ubuntu-beginners, it is against Irc (n)etiquette
|}

'''Nota Bene:''' <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox | Silver Fox]]</nowiki> will be chairing the meeting. :)

==== Agenda discussion ====

<nowiki>[[cprofitt]]</nowiki> I like the suggestion to use LP as the official membership roster. It will cut down on old information being scattered across the wiki.

=== Log ===
<pre>
[00:00] <Silver_Fox_> Shall we begin?
[00:00] <Joeb454> sounds good to me Silver_Fox_
[00:00] <Silver_Fox_> Okay.
[00:00] <starcraftman> I haz arrived, and perfectly on time!
[00:00] <Silver_Fox_> #startmeeting
[00:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:00. The chair is Silver_Fox_.
[00:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:01] <Silver_Fox_> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:01] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:01] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC]Team channels, support in main channel or -help
[00:01] <MootBot> New Topic: Team channels, support in main channel or -help
[00:01] <Silver_Fox_> Go bodhi_zazen
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> Thanks
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> I think it has been decided to move support to -help as much a possible
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> -help is much more active these days - go team
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> and feel free to ping me if assistance is needed
[00:03] <IngForigua> Hi today is the beginners team meeting?
[00:03] <Silver_Fox_> Yes IngForigua
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> short support questions are "OK" from time to time in the main channel
[00:03] <starcraftman> Oh ok, so we not changing it to the main then? cabaret just turning into an alt hangout then?
[00:03] <IngForigua> there are beginners team in spanish?
[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> I would prefer to keep -beginners to team business and more "formal" and move as much team banter as possible to ##cabaret
[00:04] <Joeb454> bodhi_zazen: but then what purpose does -beginners serve?
[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> doing so has reduced the number of complaints I have recieved drastically
[00:05] <Silver_Fox_> Is that not -beginners not banter channel anymore?
[00:05] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: hmmmm, alright, so cabaret for really random stuff and main more "proper". I got ya.
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> although be aware ##cabaret is not an official ubuntu channel and so you may see some fairly off topic banter / links
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> yes please starcraftman
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> Please *try* to banter in ##cabaret
[00:06] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  shall we move onto the vote?
[00:06] <pleia2> is ##cabaret subject to the CoC?
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> I do not personally mind banter in the main channel, but at the team has grown banter seems to be causing issues
[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> Not that I know of pleia2
[00:07] <pleia2> ok, I won't be joining then
[00:07] <lukjadOO7> So what is the vote exactly?
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> my understanding is ## channels are "unofficial"
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> 2 votes if you want
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> 1 - support to -help
[00:07] <Silver_Fox_> Okay.
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> and
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> 2 - banter to ##cabaret
[00:07] <lukjadOO7> bodhi_zazen: While I am in ##cabaret, I don't feel as comfortable chatting there.
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> LOL
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> why lukjadOO7 ?
[00:08] <canthus13> Why not adopt an o4o policy similar to -offtopic?
[00:08] <canthus13> rather than spreading out over more channels.
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> canthus13: what is that ? o4o policy ?
[00:08] <lukjadOO7> bodhi_zazen: Because it's not with the CoC, so I feel somewhat uncertain as to what goes.
[00:08] <maco> !o4o > bodhi_zazen
[00:08] <ubottu> bodhi_zazen, please see my private message
[00:08] <paultag> sorry I'm late :)
[00:08] <canthus13> o4o is basically a policy that outlines topics where people should tread lightly.
[00:09] <canthus13> maco: thanks.
[00:09]  * canthus13 didn't realize ubottu was in here. :)
[00:09] <dvz-> why not again, cut out help:  ubuntu-beginners  == support channel  and ubuntu-team == team banter and or team business?
[00:09] <jgoguen> .msg ubottu !o4o
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> mainly for two reasons
[00:09] <nigel_nb> dvz-: +1
[00:09] <dvz-> leaves us still at 2 channels both of which can be governed by coc
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> #1 is that policy is really not working in the main channel
[00:09] <jgoguen> dvz-: I thought that was proposed and shot down once?
[00:10] <dvz-> jgoguen: this whole issue has been proposed and shot down many times.
[00:10] <dvz-> more than once and by more than one person
[00:10] <lukjadOO7> bodhi_zazen: Another thing is that I don't care to spread out chat on many different channels.
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> We (I) get too many complaints when the team banters in the main channel
[00:10] <paultag> +1 bodhi_zazen
[00:10] <maco> is that because it's banter or because of the specific topic of the banter?
[00:10] <Silver_Fox_> Sorry but this is getting on.  I propose that this be discussed some more and we move onto another topic.
[00:11] <Silver_Fox_> We have a full agenda
[00:11] <starcraftman> I think we can just move to up down vote on bodhi's suggestions.
[00:11] <lukjadOO7> Okay, can we vote about the moving help to -help?:
[00:11] <lukjadOO7> Silver_Fox_: ^
[00:11] <paultag> maco, we get off topic in #ubuntu-beginners, and most people expect help to be there.
[00:11] <maco> paultag: ah ok
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> The team, in general, seems unable to tolerate o4o topics and there has been a real breakdown in tolerance in the main channel, IMO
[00:11] <paultag> maco, where our real help channel is #ubuntu-beginners-help :)
[00:11] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: and we get too many comlaints when people help others in the main channel....other than these meetings, what team business is of so great of time investment that it deems we need a new channel for offtopic?
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> We should move these meeting to the main channel, IMO
[00:12] <lukjadOO7> dvz-: I agree, but some people are upset about it.
[00:12] <nhandler> persia: I know I'm a bit late, but freenode guidelines would still apply, but that is about it (re ##cabaret)
[00:12] <nhandler> err pleia2
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> dvz-: it is more that I am tired of the complaints
[00:12] <dvz-> lukjadOO7: if we limited the team channel to strictly business, then it would remain idle a majority of the time then.
[00:12] <starcraftman> So bodhi's proposal to summarize as I get it: Help -> long answer support and beginners  -> proper team business/short support and cabaret > banter really off topic, unCoC.
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> either the team needs to be more tolerant and polite or move the banter
[00:12] <lukjadOO7> dvz-: Yes, I know.
[00:13] <starcraftman> Can we have 1 vote on all that.
[00:13] <pleia2> nhandler: I knew the general rules for ## channels, I was just hoping that even though unofficial, a banter channel promoted by an official Ubuntu project would also be held to the CoC, it makes me very uncomfortable that it doesn't
[00:13] <nigel_nb> we'll split the votes into 3?
[00:13] <lukjadOO7> dvz-: I'm not for it, but I understand bodhi_zazen's point of view. I'm going to +0 it
[00:13] <lukjadOO7> dvz-: Actualy I'll -0 it
[00:13] <pleia2> (which is why I won't go there)
[00:13] <nhandler> pleia2: It isn't in the Ubuntu name space either, so not even the Ubuntu IRC Guidelines would really apply.
[00:13] <lukjadOO7> pleia2: +1
[00:14] <lukjadOO7> I would suggest that perhaps a code of conduct be created for ##cabaret ?
[00:14] <pleia2> nhandler: just because they aren't required to apply, doesn't mean we can't say they do :)
[00:14] <dvz-> i guess I'm not completely aware of what the "offtopic" banter that seems to offend people is
[00:14] <lukjadOO7> It need not be too strict, but something to keep people feel safe
[00:14] <drs305> lukjadOO7: It's not "our" channel.
[00:14] <pleia2> lukjadOO7: is the CoC too strict?
[00:15] <lukjadOO7> pleia2: I don't think so.
[00:15] <pleia2> nor do I
[00:15] <lukjadOO7> pleia2: I'm just saying that we create a new CoC for the channel
[00:15] <nhandler> pleia2: I personally do not have any reason with not holding people to the CoC in there
[00:16] <nhandler> lukjadOO7: Is there any part of the Ubuntu CoC that people do not believe should apply there?
[00:16] <nigel_nb> lukjadOO7: can we have CoC apply to the channel?
[00:16] <PabloRubianes> sorry i am late
[00:16] <lukjadOO7> I would personally like to see the channel be under the CoC.
[00:16] <nigel_nb> +1 lukjadOO7
[00:16] <lukjadOO7> nigel_nb: I don't see why not.
[00:16] <starcraftman> PabloRubianes: s'okay we haven't really gotten anywhere.
[00:16] <nhandler> We already hold people to the CoC in -beginners
[00:16] <maco> +1 lukjadOO7
[00:16]  * pleia2 nods
[00:16]  * starcraftman puts on music and waits for a bit of agreement.
[00:16] <duanedesign> if we put cabareet under the CoC then what makes it different than #ubuntu-beginners
[00:16] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  Any more comments or questions.  I would like to put up a vote that this topic be discussed at a later date.
[00:17] <lukjadOO7> If the channel can't use the CoC for legal reasons or wordings, I suggest we copy/paste it
[00:17] <jgoguen> duanedesign: The fact that ##cabaret isn't somewhere users come expecting some help?
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> I think we need to at least vote on moving support to -help
[00:17] <lukjadOO7> And name it the Code of Cabaret.
[00:17] <starcraftman> Silver_Fox_: make sure vote topic clear. We have discussed a few alternate suggestions.
[00:17] <drs305> How are we setting guidelines for a channel not ours - open to anyone who happens along?
[00:17] <canthus13> rename #ubuntu-beginners to #ubuntu-beginners-team and keep -help the same.
[00:17] <paultag> better yet:
[00:18] <lukjadOO7> drs305: It was created by bodhi_zazen I believe
[00:18] <paultag> Rename #ubuntu-beginners-help to #ubuntu-beginners, and create #ubuntu-beginners-team, or -cafe
[00:18] <jgoguen> drs305: The same as other channels set guidelines that all users entering are expected to adhere to
[00:18] <nigel_nb> paultag: +1 (that would do)
[00:18] <paultag> It would clear up a _lot_ of confusion
[00:18] <paultag> Silver_Fox_, and I suggested this before
[00:18] <dvz-> +1 paultag
[00:18] <nigel_nb> paultag's suggestion would clear a lot of confusion
[00:18] <nigel_nb> and it would help keep a team channel for offtopic *under the CoC*
[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> paultag: easier to move -help to -team
[00:19] <starcraftman> paultag: then all long support questions and official business in the team channel and cafe for CoC talk. Right?
[00:19] <nigel_nb> either way, the idea is the same
[00:19] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, yeah, but people assume #ubuntu-beginners, is for beginners, and -cafe does not look like a support channel
[00:19] <nigel_nb> exactly
[00:19] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, we get a lot of incoming support questions in -beginners that we have to tell to /join #ubuntu-beginners-help
[00:19] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: last meeting or so ago, someone else (paul or silver) offered to redo the access permissions on the channels, i believe
[00:20] <paultag> I'll do it
[00:20] <paultag> I don't mind tedious work
[00:20] <nigel_nb> Silver_Fox_: is it possible to vote on paultag's suggestion?
[00:20] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: should we choose that route... i remember the one complaint when i propsed the idea initially was "too much of a hassle setting permissions"
[00:20] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  Make off topic channel #ubuntu-beginners-cafe
[00:20] <MootBot> Please vote on:   Make off topic channel #ubuntu-beginners-cafe.
[00:20] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:20] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:20] <jgoguen> +1
[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:20] <dvz-> +1
[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> Why do we need 4 channels -beginner -team -help and -cafe ?
[00:20] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 3 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:20] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 4 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:20] <pleia2> +1
[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:20] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, we would get rid of team and help
[00:21] <Rocket2DMn> +0
[00:21] <jgoguen> bodhi_zazen: As I see it, -help is redirected to -beginners
[00:21] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:21] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, just -beginners, and -beginners-cafe
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:21] <starcraftman> +0
[00:21] <drs305> +0
[00:21] <MootBot> Abstention received from starcraftman. 5 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:21] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 6 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:21] <MootBot> Abstention received from drs305. 6 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:21] <lukjadOO7> This is somewhat confusing.
[00:21] <Joeb454> +1
[00:21] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 7 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:21] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:21] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 8 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:21] <IngForigua> +1
[00:21] <nhandler> +0
[00:21] <MootBot> +1 received from IngForigua. 9 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:21] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 9 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:21] <lukjadOO7> +0
[00:21] <MootBot> Abstention received from lukjadOO7. 9 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> Any more votes?
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> and I agree with pleia2 , I do not want -cafe to be under the CoC, at least I do not want off topic o4o banter associated with this team =)
[00:21] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: we would ultimately  be switching -help to -beginners .... -beginners to -beginners-team  ... and -beginners-cafe to banter..then dropping -help i believe is the proposed idea
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> -1
[00:21] <MootBot> -1 received from bodhi_zazen. 9 for, 1 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:21] <MootBot> Final result is 9 for, 1 against. 5 abstained. Total: 8
[00:22] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]
[00:22] <MootBot> AGREED received:
[00:22] <Silver_Fox_> whoops ;)
[00:22] <lukjadOO7> Uhhh
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> dvz-: why not leave -beginners and simply move -help to -team
[00:22] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED] Make off topic channel #ubuntu-beginners-cafe
[00:22] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Make off topic channel #ubuntu-beginners-cafe
[00:22] <nhandler> I would be glad to help with the actual channel management to handle this stuff
[00:22] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen:  clears up confusion for NON-team members
[00:22] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  Move -help to #ubuntu-beginners
[00:22] <MootBot> Please vote on:   Move -help to #ubuntu-beginners.
[00:22] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:22] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:23] <paultag> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:23] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:23] <pleia2> +1
[00:23] <nhandler> +0
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:23] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:23] <dvz-> ubuntu-beginners  (non-members view this as help for beginners0, not a team channel)
[00:23] <paultag> nhandler, roger :)
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:23] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:23] <drs305> -1
[00:23] <MootBot> -1 received from drs305. 5 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:23] <lukjadOO7> +0
[00:23] <MootBot> Abstention received from lukjadOO7. 5 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:23] <dvz-> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 6 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:23] <Joeb454> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 7 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:23] <Rocket2DMn> -1
[00:23] <MootBot> -1 received from Rocket2DMn. 7 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:23] <swoody> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:23] <duanedesign> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 9 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:23] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 10 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:23] <jgoguen> +1
[00:23] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 11 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:23] <Silver_Fox_> Any more votes?
[00:23] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:23] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 2 against. 2 abstained. Total: 9
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> I can see two channels -beginners and -beginners-team
[00:24] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]   Move -help to #ubuntu-beginners.
[00:24] <MootBot> AGREED received:    Move -help to #ubuntu-beginners.
[00:24] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: right...and for the offtopic...i don't care if it's -cafe or if it's cabaret..or whatever else we decide
[00:24] <dvz-> +1
[00:24] <PabloRubianes> cabaret is no longer use?
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> we need to discuss off topic / banter
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> we either need to be more tolerant as a team
[00:24] <lukjadOO7> Are we voting on the policy on #ubuntu-beginners-cafe ?
[00:25]  * bodhi_zazen points out the vast majority of complaints come from team members
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> or move the banter out of #beginners space
[00:25] <drs305> Are the complaints being aired during the discussions? I haven't seen them.
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> drs305: no, the complaints come to me in PM, and then I try to resolve the issues
[00:26] <jgoguen> I don't necessarily think the lack of public complaints should be taken as any implication that there isn't a problem
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> +1 jgoguen
[00:26] <dvz-> good point drs305 ...i haven't been around much due to family issues - but if someone has a complaint, i think that they should have the courtesy to bring it up to the person that offended them either in PM or chat before going to the team lead immediately
[00:26] <nigel_nb> bodhi_zazen: can I suggest that if someone has any issue with another person, PM directly
[00:26] <drs305> I believe courtesy includes asking for a cessation of the behavior at the time rather than a PM to bodhi.
[00:26] <paultag> nigel_nb, but sometimes it's hard
[00:26] <lukjadOO7> Maybe we could wait until the next meeting to actually work on the cafe and offtopic?
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> seriously, the banter is problematic and I do not see moving to another official ubuntu channel or a channel associated with the BT as a solution
[00:27] <jgoguen> An assumption like that forces people to speak out who may not be comfortable doing so, meaning they'll not speak out and possibly leave thinking we're a bunch of hooligans
[00:27] <maco> what if the complaint is about the team lead?
[00:27] <dvz-> it's a two way street...if you're offended by someone, we can't read your minds, talk to that person about it...it may be as simple as a pm and talking to them about it.
[00:27] <lukjadOO7> Or until the end?
[00:27] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  Move non COC compliant banter to ##cabaret
[00:27] <MootBot> Please vote on:   Move non COC compliant banter to ##cabaret.
[00:27] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:27] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:27] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:27] <nhandler> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:27] <jgoguen> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:27] <swoody> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:27] <paultag> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:27] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:27] <nigel_nb> +0
[00:27] <dvz-> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from nigel_nb. 6 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 7 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:27] <starcraftman> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from starcraftman. 7 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:27] <lukjadOO7> -0
[00:27] <paultag> nigel_nb, like take for example, me. If I do something that offends, most people have met me since the beginning, and if I do something dumb, it's hard to confront a more senior member, rather then a neutral lead like bodhi_zazen
[00:27] <Joeb454> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from Joeb454. 7 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:27] <lukjadOO7> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from lukjadOO7. 7 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:27] <duanedesign> +1
[00:27] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 8 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:27] <drs305> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from drs305. 8 for, 0 against. 6 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:27] <Rocket2DMn> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 8 for, 0 against. 7 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:27] <pleia2> +0
[00:27] <MootBot> Abstention received from pleia2. 8 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:27] <jgoguen> maco: There's a council mailing list that's private...admittedly the team lead is on that list, but there's enough other people on it that it should be able to be fairly dealt with
[00:27] <dvz-> paultag: i have no qualms confronting you :-D
[00:28] <nigel_nb> paultag: suggestion
[00:28] <IngForigua> +1
[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from IngForigua. 9 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:28] <paultag> dvz-, I know that :)
[00:28] <paultag> nigel_nb, yo
[00:28] <pleia2> (I don't think we should be promoting an out of namespace channel that doesn't adhere to ubuntu community standards)
[00:28] <nigel_nb> can we have a formal process for this?
[00:28] <Silver_Fox_> Any more votes?
[00:28] <lukjadOO7> pleia2:
[00:28] <maco> +1 pleia2
[00:28] <juju2143> +1
[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from maco. 10 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 10
[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from juju2143. 11 for, 0 against. 8 have abstained. Count is now 11
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> pleia2: we are not promoting any such thing
[00:28] <maco> oh bah. ignore mine. im not a votable person
[00:28] <nhandler> pleia2: Nobody said anything about acitvely promoting it afaik
[00:28] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:28] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 0 against. 8 abstained. Total: 11
[00:28] <nigel_nb> paultag: in case you are offended, mail the person with a copy to the bt council
[00:28] <dvz-> pleia2: i think this is merely a,  "if it doesn't relate to the team, take it elsewhere"
[00:28] <nigel_nb> so there can be a resolution and somone else gets to know about it and mediate
[00:28] <paultag> nigel_nb, yeah, but again, if they are on the council, that can be hard
[00:29] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]Move non COC compliant banter to ##cabaret.
[00:29] <MootBot> AGREED received: Move non COC compliant banter to ##cabaret.
[00:29] <pleia2> fair enough
[00:29] <nigel_nb> paultag: we cud make a friendly approach to it
[00:29] <nigel_nb> paultag: something for the stalker fG?
[00:29] <paultag> nigel_nb, perhaps :)
[00:29] <dvz-> we have a stalker fg?
[00:29] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE] -help to forward to #ubuntu-beginners
[00:29] <MootBot> Please vote on:  -help to forward to #ubuntu-beginners.
[00:29] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:29] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:29] <dvz-> why wasn't i told about this?
[00:29] <paultag> dvz-, that group may or may not exist
[00:29] <paultag> +1
[00:29] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:29] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:29] <nhandler> +0
[00:29] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:29] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:29] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:29] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:29] <jgoguen> +1
[00:29] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:29] <duanedesign> +1
[00:29] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:29] <dvz-> +1
[00:29] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:29] <Joeb454> +1
[00:30] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> +0
[00:30] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 7 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:30] <swoody> +1
[00:30] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:30] <Rocket2DMn> +0
[00:30] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 8 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:30] <lukjadOO7> +1
[00:30] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjadOO7. 9 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:30] <lukjadOO7> +0
[00:30] <pleia2> +1
[00:30] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 10 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 10
[00:30] <starcraftman> +1
[00:30] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 11 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 11
[00:30] <Silver_Fox_> Any more votes?
[00:30] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:30] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 0 against. 3 abstained. Total: 11
[00:30] <drs305> -1
[00:31] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]-help to forward to #ubuntu-beginners
[00:31] <MootBot> AGREED received: -help to forward to #ubuntu-beginners
[00:31] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC]BT Roadmap
[00:31] <MootBot> New Topic: BT Roadmap
[00:31] <Silver_Fox_> Go bodhi_zazen
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone have any comments on the roadmap ?
[00:31] <duanedesign> o/
[00:31] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: Do you have a link to the draft of it handy?
[00:31] <nigel_nb> bodhi_zazen: link please?
[00:32] <lukjadOO7> bodhi_zazen: Roadmap link?
[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> I put the item on the agenda, but was hoping others were taking the lead on this
[00:32] <duanedesign> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign/sandbox
[00:32] <duanedesign> ^^^^
[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> thanks duanedesign
[00:32] <duanedesign> I have a working draft in my sanbox
[00:32] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: It has been on for a while (I think I initially added it a few months ago)
[00:32] <Silver_Fox_> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign/sandbox
[00:32] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign/sandbox
[00:32] <nigel_nb> Suggestion: Can we have something like the bugsquad's 5-a-day?
[00:32] <duanedesign> I think there are some good ideas there
[00:32] <lukjadOO7> Looks find to me
[00:33] <nigel_nb> for answers, bugs, and forum help
[00:33] <jgoguen> nigel_nb: Sounds like a good idea!
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> 6 weeks I think nhandler
[00:33] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  if nothing to vote I on I am going to move onto the next topic.
[00:33] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: Hmm...Feels like longer
[00:33] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC]Remove the Stalkers FG from BT Structure
[00:33] <MootBot> New Topic: Remove the Stalkers FG from BT Structure
[00:33] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: Oh right this thing, my only comment is not exactly sure I'm a fan of the wiki one. I'm planning a doc meeting soon so we might discuss such a target.
[00:33] <paultag> oh WTF
[00:33] <paultag> -1
[00:34] <paultag> the Stalker FG does good work :)
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> Hmm,  ibuclaw is not here.
[00:34] <nigel_nb> Silver_Fox_: can we hold off on this one?
[00:34] <lukjadOO7> I'm against that
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> ibuclaw asked me to discuss this topic
[00:34] <paultag> I'm in the stalking FG, I can address this :)
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> Go bodhi_zazen then =]
[00:34] <nigel_nb> Silver_Fox_: we could potentially add more duties to stalker FG
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> basically, the purpose of the stalker group is quality control on the forms
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> I do not think the stalkers group has bee active
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> or perhaps it needs a new lead ?
[00:34] <Joeb454> I'm off, not feeling great. Sorry guys
[00:35] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, who is lead now? sdennie?
[00:35] <nhandler> Bye Joeb454
[00:35] <lukjadOO7> Later Joeb454
[00:35] <Silver_Fox_> Bye Joeb454 .
[00:35] <nigel_nb> bodhi_zazen: can we add quality control on IRC to stalker FG?
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> the idea is that all team members should participate in quality control
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> we could
[00:35] <nigel_nb> bodhi_zazen: addressing complaints and issues with other members..
[00:35] <lukjadOO7> bodhi_zazen: I suggest we make it have a better and broader focus
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> I think we either need to
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> 1. Find a lead for the stalkers, and revitalize it ...
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> or
[00:35] <paultag> OK, speaking on behalf:
[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> 2. Eliminate it
[00:36] <nigel_nb> I can help lead it (if u're okay with me leading that is)
[00:36] <nhandler> I think having the entire team participate in quality control sounds like a better solution for the long run
[00:36] <jgoguen> nigel_nb: Quality control on IRC, IIRC, is the domain of the IRC FG as part of their mandate of help on IRC
[00:36] <paultag> All of the members of the FG are regularly on IRC, LP and UF, and when we come across and BT member we take a look at it.
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> nigel_nb: I think moving the banter to ##cabaret is going to resolve 99.9 % of the current complaints
[00:36] <paultag> I always ( _always_ ) watch IRC for quality of UBT members' help, and I think that is part of the stalking FG
[00:36] <jgoguen> Having said that, I agree with nhandler
[00:36] <nigel_nb> agree, but as paultag said ealier, it would be nice to have a small group to deal with it
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> removing a few problematic users from the channel has been effective on the rest of the complaints
[00:37] <nhandler> paultag: I think most of us pay attention to the work of fellow BT members throughout the community
[00:37] <paultag> nhandler, +1
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> If we are going to expand the focus , what irc channels ?
[00:37] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, it would have to be #ubuntu-beginners, and #ubuntu
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> #ubuntu ? -beginners ? our channels only ?
[00:37] <jgoguen> bodhi_zazen: At least the #ubuntu-beginners-* channels, and also if BT members are helping in #ubuntu
[00:37] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, well, the UBT members are UBT members through Ubuntu, we should be making sure our good name is intact ;)
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> Sounds good to me
[00:38] <paultag> +1 jgoguen
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> who would like to lead ?
[00:38] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: This is why I feel it would be better to just get rid of the formal group and have it as a more informal quality control process
[00:38] <lukjadOO7> jgoguen: +2
[00:38] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  Remove Stalker FG
[00:38] <MootBot> Please vote on:   Remove Stalker FG.
[00:38] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:38] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:38] <paultag> I am in charge to two teams. I would not take on another
[00:38] <nhandler> +1
[00:38] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:38] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:38] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:38] <lukjadOO7> -1
[00:38] <MootBot> -1 received from lukjadOO7. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:38] <paultag> -1
[00:38] <MootBot> -1 received from paultag. 2 for, 2 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:38] <nigel_nb> -1
[00:38] <MootBot> -1 received from nigel_nb. 2 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
[00:38] <jgoguen> nhandler: Would you have the council handle quality problems then?
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> +0
[00:38] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 2 for, 3 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1
[00:38] <PabloRubianes> -1
[00:38] <MootBot> -1 received from PabloRubianes. 2 for, 4 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -2
[00:38] <drs305> 0
[00:38] <nigel_nb> I can help whoever is leading
[00:38] <drs305> +0
[00:38] <MootBot> Abstention received from drs305. 2 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -2
[00:38] <nhandler> jgoguen: I see no issue with that
[00:38] <lukjadOO7> jgoguen: The higher level ones that can't be handled
[00:38] <MootBot> Private -1 vote received. 2 for, 5 against, 2 have abstained. Count is now -3
[00:39] <jgoguen> +1
[00:39] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 3 for, 5 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -2
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> If we keep the team, we need a lead
[00:39] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, +1
[00:39] <dvz-> +0
[00:39] <MootBot> Abstention received from dvz-. 3 for, 5 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now -2
[00:39] <lukjadOO7> jgoguen: You voted wrong
[00:39] <Silver_Fox_> Any more votes?
[00:39] <jgoguen> >_<
[00:39] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:39] <MootBot> Final result is 3 for, 5 against. 3 abstained. Total: -2
[00:39] <jgoguen> lukjadOO7: Not like it changed the result :)
[00:39] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED] Keep stalker FG
[00:39] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Keep stalker FG
[00:39] <paultag> Now, Leads:
[00:39] <paultag> Who wants to lead the team?
[00:39] <lukjadOO7> jgoguen: Well, yeah. But closer
[00:40]  * jgoguen notes to extra-careful read the topic twice next time
[00:40] <nhandler> I think we should hold off on choosing a lead until at least the next meeting
[00:40] <paultag> fair enough nhandler
[00:40] <nigel_nb> paultag: If u can take the lead, I'll help you with everything
[00:40] <nhandler> That way, members who are not present now have a chance to put their name forward
[00:40] <nigel_nb> nhandler: +1
[00:40] <paultag> nigel_nb, I won't take lead, I have two FGs already ;)
[00:40] <paultag> +1 nhandler
[00:40] <paultag> nigel_nb, put yourself in there :)
[00:40] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE] Decided new leads at next meeting
[00:40] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Decided new leads at next meeting.
[00:40] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:40] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:40] <cjohnston> make a page for people to nominate themselves?
[00:40] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:40] <nhandler> +1
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:40] <paultag> +1
[00:40] <jgoguen> +
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:40] <pleia2> +1
[00:40] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:40] <jgoguen> +1
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:40] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:40] <swoody> +1
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:40] <starcraftman> +1
[00:40] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:41] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:41] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:41] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 10 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 10
[00:41] <dvz-> +1
[00:41] <lukjadOO7> +1
[00:41] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 11 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 11
[00:41] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjadOO7. 12 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 12
[00:41] <drs305> +1
[00:41] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 13 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 13
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> Any more votes?
[00:41] <jgoguen> lukjadOO7: Although realistically, if everyone does quality control that's a major part of the stalker FG suddenly handled by everyone, unless we say Stalkers is like Forums and everyone is implicitly part of it
[00:41]  * starcraftman is munching food why he's a bit quiet.
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> +0
[00:41] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 13 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 13
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:41] <MootBot> Final result is 13 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 13
[00:41]  * jgoguen takes starcraftman's food
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED] Decide new leads at next meeting
[00:41] <lukjadOO7> jgoguen: Not everyone is part of the stalkers
[00:41] <duanedesign> starcraftman: mmm i am so hungry
[00:41] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Decide new leads at next meeting
[00:41] <paultag> Cool. We should start a Mailing lost on this
[00:41] <paultag> list *
[00:41] <jgoguen> lukjadOO7: That's my point :)
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC]Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists
[00:41] <MootBot> New Topic: Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> mailing lost, LMAO
[00:41] <nhandler> Does someone want the action to send it to the list?
[00:41] <starcraftman> jgoguen: That's it, bodhi_zazen, I'm filling a complaint, you saw him swipe it right off my plate!
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> Go nhandler
[00:42] <paultag> +1 -- great idea
[00:42] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:42] <lukjadOO7> jgoguen: I suggest that people have to be inducted in
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> move to vote ?
[00:42] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, yup
[00:42] <nhandler> We have several lists of FG members that we currently maintain. Most have outdated lists on the wiki
[00:42] <paultag> LP is a lot better then wiki
[00:42] <jgoguen> And more accurate
[00:42] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists
[00:42] <MootBot> Please vote on: Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists.
[00:42] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:42] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:42] <Silver_Fox_> -1
[00:42] <MootBot> -1 received from Silver_Fox_. 0 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
[00:42] <nigel_nb> and it expires too
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> +10
[00:42] <paultag> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 1 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:42] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:42] <pleia2> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:42] <nhandler> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 3 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 4 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:42] <swoody> +1
[00:42] <drs305> +1
[00:42] <jgoguen> +1
[00:42] <lukjadOO7> +0
[00:42] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 5 for, 1 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:42] <starcraftman> I wanted clarity on this, is it just main membership or FGs too?
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 6 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 7 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:42] <dvz-> +0
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 8 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:42] <starcraftman> +1
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 9 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:42] <MootBot> Abstention received from lukjadOO7. 9 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:42] <jgoguen> starcraftman: Main AFAIK
[00:42] <paultag> starcraftman, everything
[00:42] <MootBot> Abstention received from dvz-. 9 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:42] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 10 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:42] <lukjadOO7> +0
[00:43] <nhandler> starcraftman: The ~ubuntu-beginners member list is already the official list for the team
[00:43] <PabloRubianes> +1
[00:43] <MootBot> +1 received from PabloRubianes. 11 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 10
[00:43] <nhandler> This is just FGs now
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> Anymore votes?
[00:43] <starcraftman> paultag: so we will make separate groups umbrellad under the main then eh?
[00:43] <jgoguen> starcraftman: Although if you're not in the main team, you're probably also not on a FG :)
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:43] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 1 against. 2 abstained. Total: 10
[00:43] <paultag> starcraftman, yis
[00:43] <nhandler> They already are starcraftman
[00:43] <starcraftman> paultag: rgr
[00:43] <paultag> +1 nhandler
[00:43] <starcraftman> alright, I'm just checking.
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists
[00:43] <MootBot> AGREED received: Use Launchpad as official member list for FGs and remove wiki lists
[00:43] <paultag> You can't be in a FG without being in the UBT
[00:43] <nhandler> You can participate with the FG though
[00:43] <nhandler> (You just can't be an official member)
[00:43] <paultag> nhandler, for sure
[00:44] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC] Decision on logging of #ubuntu-beginners
[00:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  Decision on logging of #ubuntu-beginners
[00:44] <jgoguen> Yes, I worded that poorly
[00:44] <paultag> nhandler, we have a ton of dev heads that became UBT because of dev
[00:44] <paultag> nhandler, take dvz- as example :)
[00:44] <nhandler> :)
[00:44] <Silver_Fox_> Hmm,  easwer is not here
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> http://www.stangnet.com/mustang-forums/images/smilies/Beating_a_dead_horse.gif
[00:44] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.stangnet.com/mustang-forums/images/smilies/Beating_a_dead_horse.gif
[00:44] <Silver_Fox_> Heh
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> I think moving the banter makes logging of the main channel more palatable to most ?
[00:44] <starcraftman> logging again?
[00:45] <nigel_nb> In this case, we'd be logging the place where we help
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> see linky starcraftman =)
[00:45] <nigel_nb> and I'm okay with that
[00:45] <duanedesign> bodhi_zazen: and the logging might encourage the banter to be moved to cabaret
[00:45] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  Leave for now,  Discuss more in light of recent team channel changes
[00:45] <MootBot> Please vote on:   Leave for now,  Discuss more in light of recent team channel changes.
[00:45] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:45] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> we need an up or down vote on loging
[00:45] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:45] <lukjadOO7> -1
[00:45] <MootBot> -1 received from lukjadOO7. 1 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:45] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:45] <dvz-> +0
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 2 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:45] <MootBot> Abstention received from dvz-. 2 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:45] <starcraftman> +0
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> -1
[00:45] <MootBot> Abstention received from starcraftman. 2 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:45] <MootBot> -1 received from bodhi_zazen. 2 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:45] <nhandler> +0
[00:45] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 2 for, 2 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:45] <PabloRubianes> +0
[00:45] <MootBot> Abstention received from PabloRubianes. 2 for, 2 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:46] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 3 for, 2 against, 4 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:46] <drs305> +0
[00:46] <pleia2> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from drs305. 3 for, 2 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 4 for, 2 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:46] <jgoguen> +1
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 5 for, 2 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:46] <paultag> +0
[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from paultag. 5 for, 2 against. 6 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:46] <Silver_Fox_> Anymore votes?
[00:46] <valindil89> +0
[00:46] <MootBot> Abstention received from valindil89. 5 for, 2 against. 7 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:46] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:46] <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 2 against. 7 abstained. Total: 3
[00:46] <nhandler> Just a reminder, only BT members should be voting
[00:46] <pleia2> duanedesign: banter goes to -cafe :)
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> OK, but I'm warning you, if we do not decide on logs we need to post the dead horse icon and move it off the agenda =)
[00:46] <lukjadOO7> I just would like to say, that I am not comfortable being logged publically
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> Hmm,  I don't think that was passed
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> Too many abstentions?
[00:47] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, +1
[00:47] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: +0s do not block
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> I do not think we voted +1 on -cafe
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> Ahh,  okay
[00:47] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, yeah we did :)
[00:47] <bodhi_zazen> I think the vote was to move banter to ##cabaret
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]  Leave channel logging until later.
[00:47] <MootBot> AGREED received:   Leave channel logging until later.
[00:48] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, it was the first vote IIRC
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> yes, but that vote covered 3 topics
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC]Security Focus Group Plans for next year
[00:48] <MootBot> New Topic: Security Focus Group Plans for next year
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> and the 3 were subsequently voted on
[00:48] <dvz-> Silver_Fox_: you threw me off...
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> Hmm,  cprofit is not here.
[00:48] <dvz->  Silver_Fox_ > [VOTE]  Leave for now,  Discuss more in light of recent team channel changes      "Leave for now"  i thought referred to "leave the mtg for now"
[00:49] <dvz-> o.O
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> we do not need to vote if cprofit is not here and did not assign a proxy, just moe on
[00:49] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC] Unvoice members of the beginners team in #ubuntu-beginners, it is against Irc (n)etiquette
[00:49] <MootBot> New Topic:  Unvoice members of the beginners team in #ubuntu-beginners, it is against Irc (n)etiquette
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> *move*
[00:50] <paultag> -1
[00:50] <paultag> I find this silly.
[00:50] <lukjadOO7> +1
[00:50] <drs305> Why?
[00:50] <Silver_Fox_> Does anyone know why we should do this?
[00:50] <lukjadOO7> -1
[00:50] <lukjadOO7> sorry
[00:50] <paultag> the use of voice is to show a member from a non-member
[00:50] <drs305> Not why silly, why unvoice?
[00:50] <nhandler> I am curious as to what netiquette this violates. Many teams use a similar system (including freenode staff)
[00:50] <paultag> +1 nhandler
[00:50] <nigel_nb> pleia2 said its frowned upon in IRC
[00:50] <paultag> I disagree vehemently
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> 'The use  of voice is frowned upon in Ubuntu channels, we are all "equals"
[00:51] <nhandler> Being OPed when you don't need to is frowned upon, nothing wrong with voice
[00:51] <nigel_nb> but if we remove voice, it would lead to bot abuse
[00:51] <lukjadOO7> I would like to point out that votebot works with voice
[00:51] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: It is used in a few Ubuntu channels as well
[00:51] <nigel_nb> since bot would have to answer to everyone
[00:51] <persia> Not that I frequent that channel, but one can usually calm a channel with social cues, rather than needing to restrict voice by technical means.  Using technical means may also dissuade new productive people from joining.
[00:51] <nhandler> Don't worry about VoteBot. That should not affect our decision
[00:51] <bodhi_zazen> I do not think I see voice in our channel that way, and we have so many that come and go, and we do have a very formal membership process, perhaps the most formal I know short of ubuntu membership
[00:51] <paultag> +1 bodhi_zazen
[00:51] <lukjadOO7> It also is a useful visual indicator to who is a team member
[00:52] <paultag> +1 lukjadOO7
[00:52] <nhandler> persia: Everyone can talk in the channel (it is not +m). Voice is just used to show team members
[00:52] <paultag> +1 nhandler
[00:52] <nhandler> Similar to #ubuntu-ops and how we voice people presenting in -classroom
[00:52] <persia> Ah.  Ignore me then :)
[00:52] <nhandler> :)
[00:52] <paultag> persia, we are not _that_ bad ;)
[00:52] <bodhi_zazen> In general, the use of voice has IMO helped people know who to contact in the channel and has worked well
[00:52] <starcraftman> I don't see any reason to change current policy, all I got to note.
[00:52] <nhandler> I agree bodhi_zazen
[00:52] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE] Unvoice members of the beginners team IN #ubuntu-beginners
[00:52] <jgoguen> I think +v in our channels actually serves a purpose, a new user can come in and will see the +v people first and (I think) be more likely to ask those people things
[00:52] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Unvoice members of the beginners team IN #ubuntu-beginners.
[00:52] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:52] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:52] <pleia2> it might not be completely kosher irc netiquette-wise, but I think it's useful in -beginners
[00:52] <Silver_Fox_> -1
[00:52] <MootBot> -1 received from Silver_Fox_. 0 for, 1 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -1
[00:52] <swoody> -1
[00:52] <bodhi_zazen> -1
[00:52] <nhandler> It also helps spot potential new members
[00:52] <MootBot> -1 received from swoody. 0 for, 2 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -2
[00:52] <MootBot> -1 received from bodhi_zazen. 0 for, 3 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -3
[00:52] <MootBot> Private -1 vote received. 0 for, 4 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now -4
[00:52] <jgoguen> -1
[00:52] <PabloRubianes> -1
[00:52] <MootBot> -1 received from jgoguen. 0 for, 5 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -5
[00:52] <paultag> -1
[00:52] <pleia2> -1
[00:52] <nigel_nb> -1
[00:52] <MootBot> -1 received from paultag. 0 for, 6 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -6
[00:52] <MootBot> -1 received from PabloRubianes. 0 for, 7 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -7
[00:53] <nhandler> -1
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from pleia2. 0 for, 8 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -8
[00:53] <lukjadOO7> -1
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from nigel_nb. 0 for, 9 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -9
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from nhandler. 0 for, 10 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -10
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from lukjadOO7. 0 for, 11 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -11
[00:53] <dvz-> -1
[00:53] <drs305> -1
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from dvz-. 0 for, 12 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -12
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from drs305. 0 for, 13 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -13
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> Anymore votes?
[00:53] <starcraftman> -1
[00:53] <MootBot> -1 received from starcraftman. 0 for, 14 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now -14
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:53] <MootBot> Final result is 0 for, 14 against. 0 abstained. Total: -14
[00:53] <cjohnston> wow
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED] Keep voice
[00:53] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Keep voice
[00:53] <starcraftman> haven't had a unanimous vote in a while.
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> w00t =)
[00:53] <paultag> Haha, we unanimously hate that
[00:53] <pleia2> :)
[00:53] <paultag> w00t!!!
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC] New Members =]
[00:53] <MootBot> New Topic:  New Members =]
[00:53] <nigel_nb> paultag: one big unanimous decision team
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> W00T !!!
[00:54] <nigel_nb> yaay!
[00:54] <paultag> Who's up today?!
[00:54] <dvz-> paultag: i am
[00:54] <nhandler> cjohnston is up first
[00:54] <Silver_Fox_> First up is cjohnston
[00:54] <nigel_nb> ikt and cjohnston
[00:54] <paultag> w00t! cjohnston :)
[00:54] <cjohnston> o/
[00:54] <nhandler> cjohnston: Do you have a link to your wiki?
[00:54] <dvz-> cjohnston: word :D
[00:54] <Silver_Fox_> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cjohnston
[00:54] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/cjohnston
[00:54] <cjohnston> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristopherJohnston
[00:54] <nhandler> cjohnston: Do you want to tell us a little about yourself?
[00:54] <nigel_nb> cjohnston is already an ubuntu member :)
[00:55] <paultag> o/
[00:56] <drs305> nhandler:  cj's looking on google for the answer.
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> it is OK nigel_nb , we will not hold that against cjohnston
[00:56] <cjohnston> IRL I am a firefighter paramedic... Around here I am one of the leads on the User Days Team, a member of the Florida LoCo
[00:56] <cjohnston> lol
[00:56] <nigel_nb> bodhi_zazen: lol
[00:56] <paultag> cjohnston, could you tell us about what LoCo work have you done, also a bit about what you did at UDS and what's up with User Days
[00:56] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  cjohnston  for membership
[00:56] <MootBot> Please vote on:   cjohnston  for membership.
[00:56] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:56] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:56] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:56] <nigel_nb> +1
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:56] <nhandler> Wait a minute Silver_Fox_
[00:56] <drs305> +1
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:56] <paultag> Well sonofa
[00:56] <pleia2> +1
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:56] <nhandler> We still have questions for him
[00:56] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:56] <paultag> That sucked
[00:56] <swoody> +1
[00:56] <paultag> cut off short
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:56] <drs305> too late
[00:56] <paultag> +1
[00:56] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:57] <starcraftman> +1
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> Sorry nhandler ,
[00:57] <paultag> I like you anyway cjohnston :P
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> paultag: twss
[00:57] <cjohnston> thanks paultag
[00:57] <lukjadOO7> +1
[00:57] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjadOO7. 10 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 10
[00:57] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, Ha!
[00:57] <jgoguen> bodhi_zazen: :D
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> Anymore votes?
[00:57] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 11 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 11
[00:57] <starcraftman> cjohnston: keep up the stellar work :)
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:57] <MootBot> Final result is 11 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 11
[00:57] <pleia2> hooray cjohnston :)
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]  Yay cjohnston
[00:57] <MootBot> AGREED received:   Yay cjohnston
[00:57] <cjohnston> thanks starcraftman and pleia2
[00:57] <nigel_nb> congrats cjohnston :)
[00:57] <dvz-> ahh..+1
[00:57] <paultag> cjohnston, P.S. you only got away with that because of your record ;)
[00:57] <swoody> woot! congrats cjohnston :)
[00:57] <nhandler> Congrats cjohnston
[00:57] <Silver_Fox_> Well done
[00:57] <dvz-> i blacked out in FF7
[00:57] <paultag> cjohnston, congrats :)
[00:57] <nhandler> cjohnston: What is your LP name?
[00:57] <cjohnston> thanks all
[00:57] <cjohnston> chrisjohnston
[00:57] <nigel_nb> dvz-: again the same thing
[00:58] <cjohnston> ~chrisjohnston
[00:58] <nigel_nb> dvz-: I believe u slept through mine too...lol
[00:58] <dvz-> nigel_nb: hrm?
[00:58] <Silver_Fox_> Next up is ikt
[00:58] <dvz-> nigel_nb: lmao...ya
[00:58] <duanedesign> love the pics from Florida Team Birthday Bash / Karmic Release Party, looks fun.
[00:58] <Silver_Fox_> Who doesn't appear to be here.
[00:58] <cjohnston> paultag: whats my record? :-x
[00:58] <nhandler> And forestpiskie isn't here either
[00:58] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  any last minute things to add by anyone?
[00:58] <paultag> cjohnston, your wiki is better then most, that's enough to get away with it :)
[00:58] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: Should we hold off on voting?
[00:58] <paultag> Oh shoot, me Silver_Fox_
[00:58] <cjohnston> lol.. thanks.. i guess
[00:58] <paultag> Silver_Fox_, UFBT reunion, nhandler, POKE ;)
[00:59] <nigel_nb> cjohnston: since you strong-armed quite a lot of people ;)
[00:59] <nhandler> Ah yes
[00:59] <Silver_Fox_> I would nhandler ,  neither ikt nor forest are here
[00:59] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: o/
[00:59] <cjohnston> nigel_nb: lol
[00:59] <Silver_Fox_> Go paultag
[00:59] <Silver_Fox_> You have 1 minute
[00:59] <paultag> nhandler, you had the original idea -- hit it up
[00:59] <Silver_Fox_> Short and sweet :)
[00:59] <paultag> nhandler, I'll back up where I know :)
[00:59] <nhandler> The idea is to organize an online reunion of some of the older UFBT members (from back when we were the UFBT)
[01:00] <nhandler> We have started putting together a list of people to hunt down
[01:00] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/UFBTReunion2010
[01:00] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/UFBTReunion2010
[01:00] <dvz-> nhandler: we're not UFBT anymore?
[01:00] <dvz-> since when?
[01:00] <dvz-> O.O
[01:00] <paultag> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/UFBTReunion2010
[01:00] <paultag> doh, too late :)
[01:00] <Silver_Fox_> Since a long time.
[01:00] <lukjadOO7> dvz-: LOL
[01:00] <duanedesign> what are we doing?
[01:00] <duanedesign> oops
[01:00] <Silver_Fox_> Okay I am going to end the meeting.  This can be carried on in #ubuntu-beginners
[01:00] <paultag> duanedesign, quick, 1-2 hour event where old members come back and hang out :)
[01:01] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: Why? Nobody is after us
[01:01] <nigel_nb> isnt ikt around?
[01:01] <Silver_Fox_> Oh okay then nhandler  :)
[01:01] <Silver_Fox_> Did't see who's next
[01:01] <nigel_nb> Silver_Fox_: hold on
[01:01] <dvz-> man, i remember almost all of them...
[01:01] <dvz-> i feel old.
[01:01] <Silver_Fox_> Carry on then
[01:01] <nhandler> Feel free to add people to the list or add info about people already there
[01:01] <dvz-> i still miss y_lee in -dev
[01:01] <paultag> dvz-, +1
[01:01] <nhandler> You can also sign up to contact and hunt down people on the list
[01:02] <Silver_Fox_> Though I would like to end the meeting in next 10 minutes as it quite early here
[01:02] <nigel_nb> Silver_Fox_: ikt is here
[01:02] <nhandler> np Silver_Fox_
[01:02] <Silver_Fox_> Hey ikt
[01:02] <ikt> hello all :)
[01:02] <nhandler> ikt: Do you have a link to your wiki?
[01:02] <cjohnston> ikt: !
[01:02] <starcraftman> lo ikt, just in time.
[01:02] <ikt> yeah: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ikt
[01:02] <Silver_Fox_> I would like to vote on ikt right now :)
[01:02] <nhandler> ikt: And could you tell us a bit about yourself and your involvement with the BT ?
[01:03] <paultag> Hold on Silver_Fox_
[01:03] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ikt
[01:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ikt
[01:03] <Silver_Fox_> Thanks nhandler ,  I was just doing that :)
[01:03] <paultag> ikt, do you have your UF link?
[01:03] <ikt> yeah, without going into to much detail, 23 years old, heavily involved with computers and ubuntu
[01:03] <paultag> ikt, you mention being active in the ABT
[01:03] <cjohnston> http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=362528 <--forums
[01:03] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=362528 <--forums
[01:03] <cjohnston> for itk
[01:03] <cjohnston> ikt:
[01:03] <paultag> ty cjohnston
[01:04] <ikt> yeah paultag, visit abt daily looking for 0 reply posts
[01:04] <nhandler> ikt: What have you done with the BT so far?
[01:04] <paultag> ikt, how long have you been active in the community for?
[01:04] <ikt> I believe it was in early 2009 that I started really getting into things
[01:04] <paultag> cool :)
[01:04] <dvz-> ikt, what's your favorite built in python function? :-)
[01:04] <paultag> I'm all set
[01:04] <paultag> oh wait, one more :)
[01:04] <cjohnston> lol
[01:05] <paultag> ikt, what's the airspeed of a swallow?
[01:05] <paultag> unladen
[01:05] <lukjadOO7> paultag I was gonna say...
[01:05] <dvz-> lol..me too paultag ..you're slippin
[01:05] <swoody> airspeed velocity*
[01:05] <ikt> :P
[01:05] <dvz-> ikt those weren't rhetorical questions either :D
[01:06] <Silver_Fox_> Oh ikt  doesn't know... lets vote then :)
[01:06] <paultag> :(
[01:06] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE] ikt for membership
[01:06] <MootBot> Please vote on:  ikt for membership.
[01:06] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[01:06] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[01:06] <lukjadOO7> For not knowing, -100000000000000000
[01:06] <paultag> +1
[01:06] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from paultag. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[01:06] <dvz-> +1
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[01:06] <lukjadOO7> +1
[01:06] <swoody> +1
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjadOO7. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[01:06] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[01:06] <MootBot> Private abstention received. 6 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Count is now 6
[01:06] <starcraftman> +1
[01:06] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 7 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 7
[01:06] <MootBot> Private abstention received. 7 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Count is now 7
[01:06] <Silver_Fox_> Anymore votes?
[01:06] <starcraftman> can't be that bad, he's got me friended on forums :)
[01:07] <nigel_nb> +1
[01:07] <MootBot> +1 received from nigel_nb. 8 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 8
[01:07] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[01:07] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 8
[01:07] <swoody> woot!!! Grats ikt :D
[01:07] <ikt> wooooot :)
[01:07] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]  Ikt is in and should watch Holy Grail
[01:07] <paultag> grats ikt :)
[01:07] <duanedesign> yeah ikt \o/
[01:07] <lukjadOO7> Anymore, or are we done?
[01:07] <MootBot> AGREED received:   Ikt is in and should watch Holy Grail
[01:07] <cjohnston> wtf
[01:07] <paultag> Silver_Fox_, :)
[01:07] <paultag> +1
[01:07] <nigel_nb> I think we're done
[01:07] <Silver_Fox_> :)
[01:07] <cjohnston> sorry.. wtg
[01:07] <ikt> ty all :)
[01:07] <Silver_Fox_> I think we are done :)
[01:07] <nhandler> ikt: Do you have a link to your LP profile?
[01:07] <swoody> cjohnston, lol
[01:07] <Silver_Fox_> Well done ikt
[01:07] <lukjadOO7> Congrats ikt and cjohnston
[01:07] <cjohnston> ty
[01:07]  * canthus13 should rip holy grail and watch it again.
[01:07] <ikt> https://launchpad.net/~noname420
[01:08] <duanedesign> http://www.style.org/unladenswallow/
[01:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.style.org/unladenswallow/
[01:08] <Silver_Fox_> #endmeeting
[01:08] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 19:08.
[01:08] <Silver_Fox_> Thank you everyone.
[01:08] <paultag> Later, gaters :)
[01:09] <nigel_nb> Silver_Fox_: end meeting?
[01:09] <nigel_nb> ah :)
</pre>
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
