{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

UbuntuForums Beginners Meeting #3
Meeting April 12 2300 UTC '07

== Areas Of Discussion ==
1. Power, Structure, Authority, Discipline etc.

2. Mailing list.

3. Progress on member identification in forums.

4. Task list
* Follow up on our activity on the forums
* Discuss things to be done on the wiki
* answers.launchpad.net ''and'' https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-answers
5. Decide on community participation regarding meetings
* Sit in, with voice
* Moderated IRC
* Post logs?
** Post in forums for people to comment?

6. Other team cooperation, possible merge with -nun?

7. Decide next meeting time.
* Alternate meeting times as well

== Meeting Minutes ==

Mailing list
* Registered, waiting to go through
* You will need to sign up for it.
Areas of focus
* IRC can also be another area we work on.
* Wiki
** Open Suggestions, with approval by Team Leader/Bodhi
** Can use a poll to see which topics are in high demand
Team Cooperation
* New Users Network
** Merge Possible, find out more information
** Proposal will need to be drafted
** Absorbtion on our side possible
** We may not have the resources to mentor/hold classes
Team Identification
** Your choice of userbar, if we get sig image privileges
* Bodhi has no response from Ubuntu Daemon yet, waiting on reply.
Unanswered Posts
* Large backlog, #ubuntuforums-unanswered
'''Areas to cover:''' Forums, IRC, Wiki, Launchpad

Power/Structure
* Subteams to be called focus groups
** Work on everything, focus in a particular place
* Focus team leader applications to be posted on the forums and voted for @ the next meeting
* Leaders are more like guiders, speak on behalf of section and organise
* Bodhi has veto power

== Things Simply Discussed ==
* Mentoring not popular
** Open questions and answers are the preferred method
* It seems that we ''may'' get first crack at posts newer than a month

== Items for the Next Meeting ==
* Discipline/Unruly Members
* More on Structure/Authority
* Follow up on Focus Leaders

'''Next Meeting at April 19th 2300 GMT '07'''
----
Minutes Contributors: nothlit, ajmorris
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
