{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Log of meeting on 10/7/08 ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| Rocket2DMn
| Movement BT wiki structure to Ubuntu Team Wiki where it actually belongs
|-
| <nowiki>[[Cheater7|nhandler]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntuforums-beginners/|Beginners Team Mailing List]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[Cheater7|nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Education and Launchpad Focus Groups
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====
(none)

=== Log ===
[Tue Oct  7 23:05:14 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

[Tue Oct  7 23:05:29 2008] <jamesrfla> late 5 min u guys LOL

[Tue Oct  7 23:05:31 2008] <nhandler_> I'll be chairing the meeting in bodhi's place today

[Tue Oct  7 23:05:47 2008] <Hellow> logging now

[Tue Oct  7 23:05:49 2008] <nhandler_> Do any of the FG leaders have anything to say?

[Tue Oct  7 23:05:57 2008] <Joeb454> yay

[Tue Oct  7 23:05:58 2008] <jamesrfla> LOL

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:02 2008] <Hellow> lol

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:06 2008] <Hellow> just in time

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:08 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ah speak of the devil

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:11 2008] <Joeb454> some example you give bodhizazen

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:12 2008] <DrSmall> ..

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:13 2008] <nhandler_> bodhizazen: Just in time for the meeting

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:31 2008] <bodhizazen> hey, my family is sick, will not make it ....

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:40 2008] <jamesrfla> nhandler_: ur fier lol

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:41 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ok bodhizazen , go take care of them

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:44 2008] <drubin> bodhizazen: go see to them. nhandler will be fine

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:47 2008] <Rocket2DMn> thanks for letting us know

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:48 2008] <Hellow> yea

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:50 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, no problem bodhizazen. Are we able to vote on new members, or should we wait?

[Tue Oct  7 23:06:52 2008] <Joeb454> bodhizazen, thanks :)

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:02 2008] <drubin> nhandler_: they have to take the test

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:02 2008] <Hellow> lets go ahead and vote, end their agony

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:17 2008] <Joeb454> drubin, if they're up for nomination they should've already done it

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:18 2008] <Hellow> we havent voted on jamesrfla yet

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:29 2008] <bodhizazen> sec ...

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:31 2008] <Joeb454> Hellow, he's not up for nomination

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:34 2008] <DrSmall> is the meeting just started or almost over?

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:34 2008] <Hellow> ah

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:38 2008] <Rocket2DMn> lets table the voting stuff for a later time guys

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:39 2008] <Hellow> just started

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:40 2008] <Joeb454> DrSmall, starting

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:41 2008] <jamesrfla> just started

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:41 2008] <Rocket2DMn> we're already late

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:42 2008] <nhandler_> DrSmall: Just starting

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:42 2008] <drubin> Hellow: jamesrfla hasn't taken the test yet/ have a master

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:43 2008] <DrSmall> ok

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:44 2008] <Joeb454> brb again

[Tue Oct  7 23:07:59 2008] <_Cloud_> .disconnect

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:11 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, Tronyx_, do you have anything to say for the Security FG?

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:11 2008] <bodhizazen> It would be OK with me if we vote on new members

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:20 2008] <bodhizazen> but I can not run the meeting ...'

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:34 2008] <paultag> bodhizazen: shall I?

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:34 2008] <Rocket2DMn> bodhizazen, nhandler_ has you covered

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:41 2008] <paultag> ok, nhandler_ has got it

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:49 2008] <paultag> I need to be doing work

[Tue Oct  7 23:08:51 2008] <jamesrfla> bodhizazen: go attend to your family need we will fine hear mast bodhi

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:10 2008] <nhandler_> Tronyx_: Any FG news?

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:20 2008] <DrSmall> nhandler_: I have none

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:29 2008] <nhandler_> Rocket2DMn: Do you have anything to say on behalf of the Wiki FG?

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:33 2008] <Rocket2DMn> yeah

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:37 2008] <drubin> DrSmall: I joined the group btw

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:45 2008] <DrSmall> Ok, Drubin.

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:47 2008] <DrSmall> thanks

[Tue Oct  7 23:09:54 2008] <Rocket2DMn> In case you guys hadn't noticed, we moved our wiki structure to wiki.ubuntu.com - this is the Team Wiki, where it is supposed to be

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:06 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Please update your bookmarks - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:13 2008] <DrSmall> I have

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:16 2008] <Rocket2DMn> and any important forum posts that link to our wiki structure

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:22 2008] <drubin> Rocket2DMn: congratulations

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:29 2008] <jamesrfla> um....? what I though it was help but o forgetit

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:51 2008] <nhandler_> jamesrfla: That is what Rocket2DMn was just saying. The wiki moved to wiki.ubuntu.com

[Tue Oct  7 23:10:52 2008] <Tronyx_> sorry nhandler_ FG News?

[Tue Oct  7 23:11:00 2008] <nhandler_> Rocket2DMn: Are you done?

[Tue Oct  7 23:11:09 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i am finished

[Tue Oct  7 23:11:11 2008] <nhandler_> Tronyx_: Go ahead

[Tue Oct  7 23:11:36 2008] <Tronyx_> mmmm I don't have too much to say on the issue.  Welcome to drubin as the newest part of the security FG team thing and uhmmmm

[Tue Oct  7 23:11:55 2008] <jamesrfla> FG team thing?

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:10 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, thank you. Joeb454, do you have anything to say for the IRC FG?

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:13 2008] <Tronyx_> well, i guess that's about all.  Nothing too eventful to report

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:16 2008] <Joeb454> currently no IRC FG news :)

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:43 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, I think that covers all FG where a leader is present

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:46 2008] <paultag> nah

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:48 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: dev

[Tue Oct  7 23:12:59 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: lots of fun projects going on with Dev, primarily working on svn iface, we could use more documents, as well as developers if anyone wants in.

[Tue Oct  7 23:13:00 2008] <nhandler_> Oh yes, paultag Go ahead

[Tue Oct  7 23:13:19 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: thats about it -- all set nhandler_

[Tue Oct  7 23:13:35 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, lets move on to the agenda.

[Tue Oct  7 23:13:42 2008] <nathangrubb> DrSmall: !

[Tue Oct  7 23:13:49 2008] <jamesrfla> Anybody need me for some odd reason which I don't think you will need me but Ping Me if you need me or just use my nick name. prefers not to read the meeting today

[Tue Oct  7 23:13:50 2008] <nhandler_> Rocket2DMn: Do you have anything else you want to say about moving the wiki?

[Tue Oct  7 23:14:08 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Nope.

[Tue Oct  7 23:14:29 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Oh, anybody who wants to read about our summer of documentation - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki/SoD2008

[Tue Oct  7 23:14:30 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, then we will move on to my agenda item

[Tue Oct  7 23:14:46 2008] <Rocket2DMn> go ahead nhandler_

[Tue Oct  7 23:14:47 2008] <nhandler_> We recently got a team mailing list through Launchpad

[Tue Oct  7 23:15:02 2008] <nhandler_> You can sign up for it by visiting: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuforums-beginners

[Tue Oct  7 23:15:22 2008] <Joeb454> what's the intended use of it?

[Tue Oct  7 23:15:23 2008] <nhandler_> I have discussed the use of this mailing list with several team members

[Tue Oct  7 23:15:36 2008] <nhandler_> Joeb454: I think it should be used for discussion of meeting agenda items

[Tue Oct  7 23:15:43 2008] <nhandler_> However, I think we should vote on this

[Tue Oct  7 23:15:51 2008] <paultag> I don't want the mailing list to be a flood of crap, kinda like it is now

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:02 2008] <paultag> it needs to be directly on topic

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:03 2008] <Joeb454> +1 paultag

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:03 2008] <jamesrfla> +1 paultag

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:07 2008] <nhandler_> paultag: I don't consider true discussion "crap"

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:07 2008] <perlluver> +1 paultag

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:08 2008] <drubin> paultag: it is not really flooded

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:12 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1.  Don't use the list for chit chat, and lolz

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:14 2008] <Hellow> +1 paultag

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:22 2008] <nhandler_> .vote "Should Mailing list be used for meeting agenda discussion"

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:22 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: Should Mailing list be used for meeting agenda discussion

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:22 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:22 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:23 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: indeed

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:26 2008] <paultag> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:28 2008] <Hellow> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:29 2008] <Rocket2DMn> OFFICIAL USE ONLY please, keep it professional

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:32 2008] <forestpixie> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:33 2008] <drs305> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:33 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:37 2008] <nhandler_> Also, keep in mind, a mailiing list eliminates the issue of time zones

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:41 2008] <nhandler_> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:44 2008] <digitalvectorz> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:44 2008] <the-stace> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:49 2008] <nhandler_> .vstatus

[Tue Oct  7 23:16:50 2008] <Joeb454> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:04 2008] <y_lee> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:11 2008] <nhandler_> .vstatus

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:21 2008] <nhandler_> Any last minute votes?

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:24 2008] <drubin> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:34 2008] <nhandler_> .vote

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:34 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: Should Mailing list be used for meeting agenda discussion

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:34 2008] <VoteBot> 11 People Voted. 9 People For. 0 People Against. 2 People Neutral.

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:49 2008] <drubin> 123++ time zones suck.

[Tue Oct  7 23:17:49 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, so the mailing list will be used to discuss BT meeting agenda items

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:01 2008] <drs305> o/

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:07 2008] <nhandler_> Go ahead drs305

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:19 2008] <drs305> But not to the exclusion of discussion during meetings]

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:32 2008] <nhandler_> drs305: Meetings are meant to be for VERY little discussion

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:34 2008] <drs305> Maybe limit of 5 minutes per topic if necessary

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:36 2008] <nhandler_> They are mainly for voting

[Tue Oct  7 23:18:58 2008] <nhandler_> "# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred." from the Meetings wiki page

[Tue Oct  7 23:19:02 2008] <Rocket2DMn> right drs305 .  Remember guys, you're supposed to come to the meetings prepared.  sometimes we have topics that require a little background knowledge, it's your responsibility to be in the know!

[Tue Oct  7 23:19:48 2008] <nhandler_> The mailing list will also be used for reminders of various BT events, unless anyone objects

[Tue Oct  7 23:20:07 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: but NOT to create a thread on the event

[Tue Oct  7 23:20:09 2008] <drs305> I suggest mailings include agendas or direct link to the Meetings page

[Tue Oct  7 23:20:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1, and please use descriptive subject lines

[Tue Oct  7 23:20:24 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: I don't want 6 emails about what everyone thinks about a meeting, just one will suffice

[Tue Oct  7 23:20:36 2008] <perlluver> +1 paultag

[Tue Oct  7 23:20:47 2008] <nhandler_> paultag: It isn't for discussion about the meetings, it is for discussion prior to the meeting about agenda items

[Tue Oct  7 23:21:06 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: 19:19	nhandler_	The mailing list will also be used for reminders of various BT events, unless anyone objects

[Tue Oct  7 23:21:08 2008] <nhandler_> I will go through the list of people in the BT LP team, and send emails to anyone not subscribed to the mailing list this weekend

[Tue Oct  7 23:21:35 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: I don't want that to become a clusterfsck of emails talking about an item

[Tue Oct  7 23:21:37 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I think the list is best used for meeting topics and event announcements (like say the Dev FG wants to hold a meeting, or Education wants to give a session)

[Tue Oct  7 23:21:39 2008] <nhandler_> paultag: Yeah, one reminder email prior to the meeting. Not discussion about what happened at a meeting

[Tue Oct  7 23:21:41 2008] <digitalvectorz> couldn't a BB accomplish the same thing and allow people to choose whether they want to receive emails everytime someone responds to a certain thread?

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:04 2008] <nhandler_> digitalvectorz: We have a forum for the BT already

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:23 2008] <Hellow> maybe a broader forum

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:29 2008] <Hellow> a entire forum dedicated to the BT

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> our forums is more than enough, it barely gets used

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:39 2008] <digitalvectorz> i thought so nhandler_; so what would the mailing list accomplish that that forum can't?

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:43 2008] <nhandler_> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:47 2008] <Hellow> it could possibly be more efficient, if it gets used

[Tue Oct  7 23:22:51 2008] <perlluver> o/

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:00 2008] <nhandler_> digitalvectorz: The mailing list ensures that people see the messages. Not everyone checks the BT forum

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:03 2008] <nhandler_> Go perlluver

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:05 2008] <perlluver> where is this forum

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:15 2008] <nhandler_> perlluver: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=215

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:24 2008] <nhandler_> There is a link on the BT team page on LP

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:32 2008] <perlluver> thanks

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:40 2008] <Rocket2DMn> The BT forum is found under UF Teams on the UF homepage

[Tue Oct  7 23:23:47 2008] <Hellow> I was thinking about a dedicated forum to the BT when mailing lists was mentioned, i utterly despise them

[Tue Oct  7 23:24:13 2008] <digitalvectorz> then in the mailing list (i'm not sure the functionality) but why not have the ability to combine topics in tree-like structures so that if ppl want to read the threads of a certain topic, they can expand the discussion topic?

[Tue Oct  7 23:24:37 2008] <nhandler_> digitalvectorz: The mailing list is through Launchpad. We are not able to add new features

[Tue Oct  7 23:24:42 2008] <bodhizazen> o/

[Tue Oct  7 23:24:43 2008] <digitalvectorz> i see.

[Tue Oct  7 23:24:47 2008] <nhandler_> Go ahead bodhizazen ;)

[Tue Oct  7 23:24:55 2008] <st33med> did I miss anything?

[Tue Oct  7 23:25:05 2008] <bodhizazen> post a link to mailing list in BT forum

[Tue Oct  7 23:25:20 2008] <nhandler_> bodhizazen: I'll post a thread after the meeting

[Tue Oct  7 23:25:36 2008] <bodhizazen> :)

[Tue Oct  7 23:25:46 2008] <st33med> *cough*

[Tue Oct  7 23:25:56 2008] <st33med> Did I miss anything?

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> st33med, ill post the log, dont worry

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:18 2008] <st33med> Oh I missed it all lol

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:19 2008] <nhandler_> Can I move on to the next agenda item?

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:23 2008] <st33med> or

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:27 2008] <st33med> nvm

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:36 2008] <perlluver> go ahead nhandler_

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:46 2008] <DrSmall> mailing list got approved. yes!

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:51 2008] <DrSmall> +1 from me

[Tue Oct  7 23:26:57 2008] <nhandler_> As I am sure you are all aware, we have not really had a lead for the LP FG for a while

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:12 2008] <nhandler_> Toxicity has not been that active, and CoolBhavi has not been around much either

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:15 2008] <Joeb454> toxicity seems to have mooved on

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:17 2008] <Joeb454> mooved?

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:24 2008] <Hellow> moo ved

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:36 2008] <the-stace> lol

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:38 2008] <the-stace> bad

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:46 2008] <drs305> he was feeling a little cowed

[Tue Oct  7 23:27:51 2008] <nhandler_> I would like to take over the role of LP lead instead of being the lead of the Education FG

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:07 2008] <paultag> I propose something

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:08 2008] <st33med> Can we cow tip ;)

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:15 2008] <nhandler_> What paultag ?

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:15 2008] <Hellow> lol

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:17 2008] <Rocket2DMn> cmon guys, stay on topic please

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:21 2008] <st33med> Ok

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:25 2008] <paultag> that PrivateVoid take over Edu, as part of the Padawan process

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:39 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: then you can go to LP, and edu is put where it needs to be

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:41 2008] <nhandler_> paultag: Why don't we combine the education and padawan FGs?

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:48 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: that is what I am suggesting

[Tue Oct  7 23:28:53 2008] <nhandler_> ;)

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:14 2008] <st33med> So, I would have padawans being taught about Python?

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:14 2008] <nhandler_> .vote "Combine Education and Introductions FGs"

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:14 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: Combine Education and Introductions FGs

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:14 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:14 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:16 2008] <paultag> PV is not here, shall we wait on that nhandler_?

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:21 2008] <drs305> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:23 2008] <st33med> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:24 2008] <perlluver> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:33 2008] <Rocket2DMn> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:38 2008] <y_lee> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:39 2008] <forestpixie> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:45 2008] <paultag> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:48 2008] <digitalvectorz> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:49 2008] <nhandler_> paultag: We can get the team's opinion. If PV is not up for it, we can find another solution

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:52 2008] <nhandler_> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:54 2008] <paultag> nhandler_: ok

[Tue Oct  7 23:29:57 2008] <DrSmall> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:30:20 2008] <nhandler_> Any more votes?

[Tue Oct  7 23:30:34 2008] <nhandler_> .vstatus

[Tue Oct  7 23:30:38 2008] <drubin> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:30:45 2008] <the-stace> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:30:51 2008] <nhandler_> .vstatus

[Tue Oct  7 23:31:01 2008] <nhandler_> .vote

[Tue Oct  7 23:31:01 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: Combine Education and Introductions FGs

[Tue Oct  7 23:31:01 2008] <VoteBot> 11 People Voted. 5 People For. 0 People Against. 6 People Neutral.

[Tue Oct  7 23:31:30 2008] <nhandler_> Ok, I think we should hold off on merging the 2 FGs. We can discuss this more after the meeting.

[Tue Oct  7 23:31:45 2008] <nhandler_> We can also bring this up again at the next meeting

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:12 2008] <nhandler_> .vote "nhandler to be lead of LP FG"

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:12 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Now Voting On: nhandler to be lead of LP FG

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:12 2008] <VoteBot> Vote with +1, -1, or 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:12 2008] <VoteBot> You can also /msg VoteBot your vote

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:18 2008] <perlluver> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:21 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:28 2008] <y_lee> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:31 2008] <drs305> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:33 2008] <digitalvectorz> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:35 2008] <forestpixie> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:45 2008] <paultag> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:55 2008] <nhandler_> .vstatus

[Tue Oct  7 23:32:57 2008] <the-stace> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:33:24 2008] <DrSmall> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:33:28 2008] <nhandler_> Any last votes?

[Tue Oct  7 23:33:32 2008] <ibuclaw> 0

[Tue Oct  7 23:33:34 2008] <nhandler_> .vstatus

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:00 2008] <nhandler_> .vote

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:00 2008] <VoteBot> We Are Done Voting On: nhandler to be lead of LP FG

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:00 2008] <VoteBot> 9 People Voted. 8 People For. 0 People Against. 1 People Neutral.

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:17 2008] <bodhizazen> +1

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:20 2008] <perlluver> congrats nhandler_

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:23 2008] <Rocket2DMn> voice bodhizazen

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:24 2008] <nhandler_> I will continue to act as lead of the Education FG until we find another solution.

[Tue Oct  7 23:34:55 2008] <nhandler_> Does anyone else have any agenda items to bring up?

[Tue Oct  7 23:36:01 2008] <Rocket2DMn> guess not

[Tue Oct  7 23:36:35 2008] <nhandler_> And we have no padawans to vote on ( digitalvectorz has not been quized yet )

[Tue Oct  7 23:36:39 2008] <DrSmall> I don't

[Tue Oct  7 23:36:40 2008] <perlluver> o/

[Tue Oct  7 23:36:45 2008] <nhandler_> Go ahead perlluver

[Tue Oct  7 23:37:07 2008] <perlluver> I would just like to know more about when the FG are going to meet, maybe at the next meeting or something

[Tue Oct  7 23:37:22 2008] <nhandler_> perlluver: That is up to the individual FG leaders

[Tue Oct  7 23:37:25 2008] <Rocket2DMn> FG meetings are up to their leaders

[Tue Oct  7 23:37:42 2008] <perlluver> ok I am good to go then

[Tue Oct  7 23:37:46 2008] <Rocket2DMn> hopefully we can announce those on the mailing list as well as post them on the wiki and forum

[Tue Oct  7 23:37:47 2008] <nhandler_> A tentative schedule is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings#Focus%20Group%20Meetings

[Tue Oct  7 23:38:15 2008] <nhandler_> Well, if nobody has anything else to discuss, I think we are done for today

[Tue Oct  7 23:38:30 2008] <drubin> o/

[Tue Oct  7 23:39:04 2008] <nhandler_> Go ahead drubin

[Tue Oct  7 23:39:17 2008] <drubin> nhandler_: werent we going to discuss new memebers

[Tue Oct  7 23:39:25 2008] <drubin> *members

[Tue Oct  7 23:39:28 2008] <nhandler_> drubin: There are no new members to vote on

[Tue Oct  7 23:39:49 2008] <drubin> Padawan  Master

[Tue Oct  7 23:39:50 2008] <drubin> digitalVectorzpaultag

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:01 2008] <perlluver> no quiz yet drubin

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:01 2008] <drubin> ^^ on thewiki

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:03 2008] <nhandler_> drubin: digitalvectorz has not been quized yet, so he is not eligible

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:04 2008] <paultag> drubin: digi has not been tested yet

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:06 2008] <bodhizazen> no new members ??

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:14 2008] <nhandler_> bodhizazen: Sadly, no.

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:18 2008] <jamesrfla> bodhizazen: o me o me!!!!!

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:20 2008] <paultag> bodhizazen: PM me

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:43 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I think Fall schedules are limiting people's time, with school, work, sports, family, etc

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:44 2008] <Joeb454> jamesrfla, you have no master to put you forward for the quiz

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:48 2008] <Joeb454> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Tue Oct  7 23:40:51 2008] <Joeb454> I have a lot on atm

[Tue Oct  7 23:41:02 2008] <perlluver> +1 Joeb454

[Tue Oct  7 23:41:04 2008] <nhandler_> Does anybody want to say anything before we end the meeting?

[Tue Oct  7 23:41:05 2008] <jamesrfla> :(

[Tue Oct  7 23:41:17 2008] <Joeb454> jamesrfla, sorry - but it's true

[Tue Oct  7 23:41:26 2008] <jamesrfla> I know

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:02 2008] <Hellow> lol

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:03 2008] <nhandler_> Then that concludes the BT Meeting. Thank you everyone for participating.

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> thanks for chairing nhandler_

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:12 2008] <nhandler_> .meeting

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:12 2008] <VoteBot> Meeting mode enabled.

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:16 2008] <nhandler_> np Rocket2DMn

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:18 2008] <perlluver> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:24 2008] <nhandler_> I'll get you the logs quickly

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:25 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

[Tue Oct  7 23:42:26 2008] <Rocket2DMn> end meeting
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
