{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings/20091006|Ubuntu Beginners Team Meeting 2009-10-06]]</nowiki>
* Meetings will now take place once every month instead of twice
* Agree that we need to continue making an effort to get new people interested in joining the team
* Decide to alternate the meeting time each month to accommodate other time zones.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ZachK_|Zach Kleinhenz]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He is an active member of many focus groups, and has done a great job of making new Ubuntu users feel welcome in the community.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/komputes|komputes]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He is really involved in the ubuntu community, bugs and supporting other users. He is also a key member in the ubuntu-qc LoCo.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Raidsong|Raidsong]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has been doing a terrific job helping other users, and we are glad to welcome him to the team.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DiegoTurcios|Diego Turcios]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He is very friendly and always attempts to help others with problems in #ubuntu-beginners-help where he can.
