{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Log of meeting on 7/8/08 ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Rocket2DMn|Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| UF Jewels - make a list/archive?
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Rocket2DMn|Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| MIA Members / non-IRC members
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Rocket2DMn|Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| Meeting length
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Old_soldier|Old_soldier]]</nowiki>
| Vote bot for membership voting
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Old_soldier|Old_soldier]]</nowiki>
| Team Avatar (Official Avatar)
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Cheater7|nhandler]]</nowiki>
| Team User Rank Graphic on Forum
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Cheater7|nhandler]]</nowiki>
| New User Mentoring
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

* UF Jewels - do we want to archive or store links to some of the jewels of the Ubuntu Forums somewhere.  This was attempted with the Ubuntu Document Storage Facility (UDSF), but that is no longer available.  Perhaps a wiki page for links would be nice.
* MIA Members: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BodhiZazen|bodhi_zazen]]</nowiki> noted that most of the members who do not IRC (exist solely on the forums) tend to disappear.  As the team grows, is it time to attempt to make contact with these users and determine if they are still active or should be labeled as inactive?
* Meeting Length - The last meeting lasted about 1 1/2 hours, which is a little long to keep people's attention and agree with schedules.  I propose that meetings should last no longer than an hour.  This might be achieved by skipping the initial Focus Group rundown unless teams specifically post on the <nowiki>[[Beginners-BTMeetings]]</nowiki> page.  Also less off-topic chat and pointless comments.  Sorry to be a hardass, but these meetings should be professional and focused, we have the rest of the month to screw around on IRC.
** __<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BodhiZazen|bodhi.zazen]]</nowiki>__ Yea, +1 for keeping meetings to < 1 hour. '''Please keep the off topic chatter to a minimum as it is distracting.''' Bring off topic conversations to ##beginners-help.

** If we have a long agenda perhaps we should meet more often or have more focused meetings such as a specific meeting to discuss specific topics. I suggest :
** __Bodsda__ - I think we should have more then 1 meeting a month due to if we miss one (which will happen as the meetings are around midnight where i am) we dont get a chance to discuss our points of view.Perhaps maybe a new ideas meeting 2 times a month to discuss peoples ideas, this would only be a short meeting. good/bad idea?
** __<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Joeb454|Joeb454]]</nowiki>__ - I don't suggest meeting more than once a month, I think individual Focus Group meetings would be good though
* Vote bot: At the recent Ubuntu meeting they used a bot to validate and count votes for membership. Would the team like to implement such a bot for our meetings? This would validate the votes and legitimize the results since the bot could be programmed in such a way that only voting members of the team could cast a vote.
* Team Avatar (Official Avatar) : Is there interest in approaching the forum council and requesting an official avatar to identify members of the team? This could be enforced by the forum moderators if the idea is approved by the forum council. Having an "official avatar" would make it clear to people who is or is not a member of the team.
** __<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Joeb454|Joeb454]]</nowiki>__ Sounds interesting, you'll have to explain a little, though you should be able to opt out - with prior permission (bodhi.zazen is a mod, if it's enforced by mods, this obviously wouldn't be an issue then).
* Team User Rank Graphic on Forum: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=5551|Mike]]</nowiki> on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|forums]]</nowiki> is allowing teams to request a User Rank Graphic similar to the ones that Moderators, Admins, Ubuntu Members, and Ubuntu Developers have. There is a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=445211|thread]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11|Community Cafe]]</nowiki> that describes this. If we were to get one, it would solve the problem of restricting the Team Avatar to team members.
* New User Mentoring: The Ubuntu MOTU currently have a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentoring|mentoring system]]</nowiki> in place. A new <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentoring/Contributor|contributor]]</nowiki> is paired with a MOTU <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Mentoring/Mentor|mentor]]</nowiki>. The mentor helps the new contributor learn the basic tools and processes. We should implement our own mentoring system. However, instead of mentoring new contributors, we would mentor new users to Linux/Ubuntu. The mentor would help teach the new user basic tasks such as installing/removing applications, basic terminal usage, and where they can look for additional help/documentation.

=== Log ===
[Tue Jul  8 23:04:13 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ================

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> MEETING START

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ================

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:39 2008] <ajmorris> who's doing minutes?

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:46 2008] <m_newton> i can

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:47 2008] <vor-ubuntu> Not it

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:51 2008] <m_newton> i have a timer

[Tue Jul  8 23:04:55 2008] <nhandler> ajmorris, VoteBot is logging the channel

[Tue Jul  8 23:05:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Agenda : https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/BTMeetings

[Tue Jul  8 23:05:13 2008] <m_newton> Time set to 1 hour

[Tue Jul  8 23:05:31 2008] <m_newton> countdown has started ;)

[Tue Jul  8 23:05:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, first item ....

[Tue Jul  8 23:05:47 2008] <bodhi_zazen> NEW MEMBERS

[Tue Jul  8 23:06:01 2008] <Maddeth> where?

[Tue Jul  8 23:06:02 2008] <m_newton> :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:06:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Maddeth, ping

[Tue Jul  8 23:06:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Public vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:06:33 2008] <Maddeth> bohdi_zazen ping yourself :p

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:10 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "all in favor of Maddeth"

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:16 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:17 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:19 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:21 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:22 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:23 2008] <nhandler> This is a member only vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:24 2008] <glade88> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:24 2008] <spiderbatdad> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:25 2008] <Saj0577> bodhi_zazen can none members vote?

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:26 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:32 2008] <hetirv> Saj0577, no

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Saj0577, not on this

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:40 2008] <Saj0577> okay no problem :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:48 2008] <billgoldberg> :p

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:07:58 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome Maddeth :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:04 2008] <m_newton> good job Maddeth

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:05 2008] <Maddeth> thanks all

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:08 2008] <nhandler> Congrats Maddeth

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:14 2008] <hetirv> grats m_newton

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:19 2008] <hetirv> err Maddeth

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:25 2008] <m_newton> heh

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "all in favor of " hetirv "

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:36 2008] <Maddeth> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:36 2008] <m_newton> +1000

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:37 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:39 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:43 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:46 2008] <hetirv> lol

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:47 2008] <glade88> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:47 2008] <spiderbatdad> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:49 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:58 2008] <Maddeth> lol hetirv

[Tue Jul  8 23:08:59 2008] <m_newton> meh, cant vote yet

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:00 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome hetirv  :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:24 2008] <hetirv> \o/

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:32 2008] <m_newton> hey man

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:40 2008] <Maddeth> good job :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:43 2008] <nhandler> Congratulations hetirv

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:44 2008] <ajmorris> how do you vote neutral btw?

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:48 2008] <m_newton> great job

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:48 2008] <nhandler> ajmorris, 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:50 2008] <tinivole> ajmorris, 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:54 2008] <ajmorris> k

[Tue Jul  8 23:09:56 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "all in favor of " tinivole "

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:00 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> -1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:04 2008] <spiderbatdad> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:06 2008] <glade88> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:06 2008] <vor-ubuntu> Haha

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> :), k/k

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:09 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:10 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:10 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:23 2008] <Maddeth> thta was mean lol

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:26 2008] <tinivole> lol, bodhi_zazen, how could you?

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:29 2008] <tinivole> :(

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:32 2008] <nhandler> tinivole, He changed his vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:37 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:43 2008] <m_newton> :p

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:51 2008] <m_newton> jk

[Tue Jul  8 23:10:53 2008] <tinivole> ;) yeah, I saw...

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:05 2008] <ajmorris> why are votes public btw?

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:09 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Do we have 7 voting members ....

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:09 2008] <m_newton> smiles work in chatzilla :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:15 2008] <Rocket2DMn> oh hai

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:17 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +0

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> er

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:21 2008] <Rocket2DMn> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:23 2008] <nhandler> ajmorris, bodhi could allow people to vote through /msg if he chooses to

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ajmorris, you can /msg VoteBot

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:26 2008] <Rocket2DMn> idk you well enough :(

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:44 2008] <ajmorris> i see... but nhandler still knows :P

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome tinivole :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:49 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, You need to have the --msg option to allow people to vote through /msg

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:57 2008] <tinivole> thank-you bodhi_zazen

[Tue Jul  8 23:11:59 2008] <bodhi_zazen> oic

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:12 2008] <nhandler> ajmorris, I am not looking at the terminal. If you choose to vote against a member, that is your choice

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think votes for membersip should be public, but for ajmorris :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:29 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I will allow non-public

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:33 2008] <m_newton> :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:40 2008] <ajmorris> lol, i dont really care, i was just asking :P

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:49 2008] <m_newton> hello victor__

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:52 2008] <victor__> hello

[Tue Jul  8 23:12:55 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote --msg "all in favor of " nhandler "

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:01 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:02 2008] <m_newton> +100000000

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:04 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:05 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:06 2008] <glade88> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:09 2008] <m_newton> +infinity

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:12 2008] <hetirv> +oompaloompa

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:15 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:24 2008] <m_newton> heh

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome nhandler  :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:34 2008] <glade88> yay.. nhandler!

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:36 2008] <nhandler> Thanks everyone

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:47 2008] <m_newton> congrats nhandler

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:54 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Should we vote on Bods ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:13:56 2008] <Rocket2DMn> your team member card may take 6-8 weeks for delivery

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:01 2008] <nhandler> lol Rocket2DMn

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> anyone see him recently ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:12 2008] <Saj0577> nope

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:19 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, He was here a few days ago

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:28 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Bodsda ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:32 2008] <nhandler> yeah

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:37 2008] <m_newton> i did, but hes not here now

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:52 2008] <PrivateVoid> He has been on and off recently

[Tue Jul  8 23:14:57 2008] <m_newton> thanks

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:09 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nice, who added voice for the new ones, was not I (no time yet)

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote --msg "all in favor of " Bodsda "

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:30 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:32 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, We haven't voted on m_newton yet? Why did he get voice?

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:47 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler, I did not do it , LOL

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:50 2008] <bodhi_zazen> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:53 2008] <vor-ubuntu> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:53 2008] <m_newton> awwwww

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:55 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:15:56 2008] <vor-ubuntu> Not here

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:00 2008] <tinivole> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:02 2008] <glade88> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:03 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:23 2008] <ajmorris> its because nhandler, i voiced the wrong person :P

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:34 2008] <nhandler> ajmorris, Ok, no problem. I was just curious

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:36 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome Bodsda :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> he he he ...

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:46 2008] <m_newton> yay

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:47 2008] <bodhi_zazen> thanks ajmorris :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:16:47 2008] <glade88> lol

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, that's it then

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:02 2008] <ajmorris> hehe, np bodhi_zazen, you still need to add them to the access list, i cant do that

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:08 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, What about m_newton ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:11 2008] <m_newton> What about me

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:15 2008] <Saj0577> bodhi_zazen: me? :(

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote --msg "all in favor of " m_newton "

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol m_newton :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:25 2008] <m_newton> yay

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:36 2008] <m_newton> lol, all the suspence

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:38 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:41 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:17:46 2008] <tinivole> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:17 2008] <m_newton> yay

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Welcome m_newton  :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:24 2008] <m_newton> :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:27 2008] <m_newton> tks

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:29 2008] <nhandler> Congrats m_newton

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:31 2008] <glade88> w00t..

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:36 2008] <m_newton> thanks all

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I say we take Rome off the list

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:42 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, Should we vote on Saj0577? Or should we hold off until the next meeting?

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:51 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, I agree about removing Rome

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:53 2008] <m_newton> thanks

[Tue Jul  8 23:18:56 2008] <m_newton> lets vote now

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:07 2008] <PrivateVoid> did Saj0577 take his test?

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:09 2008] <bodhi_zazen> should we vote to vote on Saj0577 ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:16 2008] <Saj0577> No not had test yet

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:29 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would not vote until the test is complete

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:32 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I do not think Saj0577 has gone through all the steps yet

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:44 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote " Saj0577 next meeting /"

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:45 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1 for removing rome

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:46 2008] <m_newton> wb tronyx

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:54 2008] <tronyx> hello

[Tue Jul  8 23:19:55 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:04 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:07 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:11 2008] <m_newton> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:23 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, next time Saj0577 :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:44 2008] <Saj0577> no problem

[Tue Jul  8 23:20:45 2008] <PrivateVoid> :-)

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:11 2008] <m_newton> heh

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, one question, how is the "new" membership process ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:24 2008] <vor-ubuntu> I think it's generally good, bodhi_zazen

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:25 2008] <ubuntu-doc-techn> may I ask what the vote was just taken for?  I stopped in to try to see how I can find out who my mentor is and how I can communicate with them

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:31 2008] <Rocket2DMn> I think all votes should be done privately

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:34 2008] <Saj0577> so as im not member is me being here worthwhile for rest of meeting?

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:39 2008] <vor-ubuntu> Rocket2DMn: I would agree with that too

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "All in favor of the padawan"

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:42 2008] <m_newton> PrivateVoid: I am your pandawa

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:48 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:50 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Saj0577,  you aer welcome to the meeting

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:51 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:52 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:55 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:56 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:21:57 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:22:08 2008] <Saj0577> bodhi_zazen okay il prob just read and not contribute much as i would feel out of place

[Tue Jul  8 23:22:16 2008] <tinivole> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:22:27 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Saj0577, then just listen, you can get up to speed with what the team is doing

[Tue Jul  8 23:22:36 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ubuntu-doc-techn, we we voting on if we should include Saj0577 in todays membership roll call

[Tue Jul  8 23:22:38 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, whoever voted against, PM me and we can discuss improvements :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:06 2008] <Maddeth> omg i have voice :o

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:13 2008] <PrivateVoid> m_newton, not anymore... you are now a master as of this vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:20 2008] <m_newton> oh

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:25 2008] <m_newton> cool

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:29 2008] <PrivateVoid> :-)

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, shall we roll the teams ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:44 2008] <Rocket2DMn> no

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:52 2008] <bodhi_zazen> no ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:23:59 2008] <nhandler> Should we vote about removing Rome Reactor from the list?

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:01 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i thought we wanted to do that separately b/c it took too long

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler, no

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:22 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lets keep teams brief :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:28 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Forms :

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Not much to report.

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Like the team avatars, keep up the good work

[Tue Jul  8 23:24:51 2008] <bodhi_zazen> try to help out the UA team

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Wiki :

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:01 2008] <m_newton> UA?

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:03 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go Rocket2DMn

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:09 2008] <nhandler> m_newton, Unanswered Posts Team

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> UA = Unanswered Posts Team

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:15 2008] <m_newton> oh

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:24 2008] <tronyx> Security:

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:29 2008] <Rocket2DMn> Wiki: we are in the process of the Summer of Documentation.  if you are interested in helping get wiki pages up to date, PM me and we will chat later

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go tronyx :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:38 2008] <tronyx> little to report, the security section tends to be incredibly recycled and no one uses the search function

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:40 2008] <marc_kaplan> are masters the same as mentors?

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Thanks Rocket2DMn :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:25:58 2008] <bodhi_zazen> marc_kaplan, we can chat after the meeting

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> yes and no :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:07 2008] <tronyx> i cannot stress the importance of going to every post and simply posting with, "You could try using wireshark" as this reply seems enough to confuse and answer every post in the security section

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol tronyx

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:23 2008] <Maddeth> lol tronyx

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:33 2008] <tronyx> just kidding, but in all seriousness, i would like to see some criteria come together for what should be known about security

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:42 2008] <PrivateVoid> +!

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:46 2008] <bodhi_zazen> please *try* to raise awareness of security on the forums

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:46 2008] <PrivateVoid> yep!

[Tue Jul  8 23:26:53 2008] <tinivole> +1 on that too

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> The days of install it and forget it are over :(

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:05 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK,

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:07 2008] <Maddeth> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:08 2008] <PrivateVoid> bodhi_zazen, but to what level of detail do you want us to go?

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:08 2008] <tronyx> bodhi's stuck post is a great starter for those of you that have not seen it, please do, it's stuck by LaRoza iirc

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Launchpad :

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:32 2008] <tronyx> PrivateVoid, that was actually left up to me, since you are interested, let's work on some criteria at a later date

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:34 2008] <tronyx> sound fair?

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:40 2008] <PrivateVoid> fair

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:42 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, Not a ton of detail, just keep basic security in mind

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:46 2008] <Rocket2DMn> tronyx, have a focus group meeting on it

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:49 2008] <tronyx> we'll cal later PrivateVoid =]

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:52 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +!

[Tue Jul  8 23:27:54 2008] <PrivateVoid> k

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:01 2008] <tronyx> good call, thanks Rocket2DMn.  that's all for me and the security zone

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:13 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK,

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> IRC :

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:21 2008] <ajmorris> IRC: Well, its been going slow lately... i havent seen much activity in ##beginners-help, or in #ubuntu from any of our team members... If you wanna join, just add your name to the IRC focus group list on the wiki page. -- only me and bodhi in the channel atm... Also, current members... perhaps think about advertising the channel in your signiature?

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> How is ##beginners-classroom working ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:42 2008] <bodhi_zazen> How is ##beginners-help working ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:56 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, thanks ajmorris

[Tue Jul  8 23:28:58 2008] <ajmorris> it is working fine, we used to even get random members coming in... but not anymore

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:01 2008] <ajmorris> not many people know about it...

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:04 2008] <m_newton> well i want to join the classroom

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:07 2008] <Rocket2DMn> paultag isnt here for discussion about mentoring/education and ##beginners-classroom

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:17 2008] <m_newton> but nothing much happens there

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I think Joeb454 is interested

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Mentoring :

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:34 2008] <ajmorris> there is some stuff on the education focus group here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Team/FocusGroups/Education

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> How is the mentoring program going ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:29:46 2008] <m_newton> i am interested 2

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:06 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, I anticipate mentoring to be a little slow

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:16 2008] <vor-ubuntu> bodhi_zazen: As far as I know, there isn't much happening on that.

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I will see If I can put something together

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:25 2008] <PrivateVoid> I don't go to #ubuntu-help

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:26 2008] <ajmorris> we could use mentoring to help our padawans also...

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:31 2008] <m_newton> what are the topics of mentering

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Any other comments on focus groups ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:30:47 2008] <PrivateVoid> but I am in #ubuntu --- though I think it would be best to use the #ubuntu-help as there is simply too much chatter in #ubuntu

[Tue Jul  8 23:31:13 2008] <m_newton> But we have to raise the awarenss of ppl in the #ubuntu channel

[Tue Jul  8 23:31:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> can i wipe the Hardware focus group?

[Tue Jul  8 23:31:27 2008] <bodhi_zazen> m_newton, https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Team/FocusGroups/Education

[Tue Jul  8 23:31:58 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, +/- on hardware group. Call it a "pipe dream"

[Tue Jul  8 23:32:17 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, you are up

[Tue Jul  8 23:32:22 2008] <m_newton> well, i can mentor on eyecandy and compiz from git

[Tue Jul  8 23:32:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Jewles ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:32:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> errr, what is there to say, the Hardware focus group says "The "Hardware" group is a combined effort of all Beginners Team Members"

[Tue Jul  8 23:32:39 2008] <Rocket2DMn> oh that

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> you want to table that for now ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:04 2008] <Rocket2DMn> it was mentioned at the end of last meeting i think, it is just an idea about moving some of the forums jewels to the wii

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:10 2008] <Rocket2DMn> wiki*

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:18 2008] <Rocket2DMn> let's deal with that later

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> We should start a list , pages needing to be added to wiki

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:32 2008] <PrivateVoid> yeah... I think moving the good posts to a wiki entry makes sense

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:35 2008] <Rocket2DMn> we'll discuss it casually during the month and see what happens

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:43 2008] <PrivateVoid> it is easier to edit it in that form... as a team

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:45 2008] <vor-ubuntu> Rocket2DMn: I like that idea.  Or maybe even making a wiki to point back at the forums because it's easier to get interactive help that way.

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:47 2008] <tronyx> same

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> We can use them to mentor on how to wiki :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:33:52 2008] <Rocket2DMn> it's not a new idea, it just hasnt' had a lot of effort put into it over the years

[Tue Jul  8 23:34:13 2008] <nhandler> I think this is because their hasn't been anyone really pushing the idea.

[Tue Jul  8 23:34:16 2008] <Rocket2DMn> it has a lot of potential problems

[Tue Jul  8 23:34:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, we should put effort into it as a team for sure

[Tue Jul  8 23:34:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:34:44 2008] <bodhi_zazen> MIA Members

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I do not like the idea of "pushing people off the team"

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:13 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Or a "requirement" for time

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:16 2008] <Rocket2DMn> as the team is growing, there are a lot of "older" members who just aren't around, either on the forums or IRC.  Maybe we can make an "inactive" list?

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:26 2008] <PrivateVoid> how about just listing them as inactive

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:31 2008] <m_newton> thats a good idea

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:33 2008] <Rocket2DMn> you wanted people to put in a few hours/week

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:34 2008] <glade88> that sounds good..

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:34 2008] <PrivateVoid> same suggestion as Rocket2DMn

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:36 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, Why not remove them from the team, but allow them to be added back to the team simply by stopping by the IRC channel or pming you?

[Tue Jul  8 23:35:52 2008] <PrivateVoid> nhandler, you would need an inactive list then

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:01 2008] <vor-ubuntu> I like the inactive idea.  Looking at the list on the BT forum, I only recognize a handful of them and I'm hear every day.

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:02 2008] <bodhi_zazen> but what are the requirements for active / inactive ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:04 2008] <PrivateVoid> we could inactive and unvoice them...

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:05 2008] <m_newton> true

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:16 2008] <hetirv> As for a time limit, 3 or 6 months

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:26 2008] <st33med> hiz

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:33 2008] <hetirv> blarg

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:35 2008] <spiderbatdad> 10 hours a week?

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:38 2008] <PrivateVoid> bodhi_zazen, my issue is that I do not want a large list of 'members' that are not here...

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:38 2008] <bodhi_zazen> How about if I make a thread on the forums, on the BT sub fourm

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:42 2008] <spiderbatdad> or 5?

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:45 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, The only real way we can determine if a person has been active / inactive is if we have seen them in the channel here

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:47 2008] <bodhi_zazen> "Still interested ?"

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:47 2008] <PrivateVoid> it gives the wrong impression to others

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:52 2008] <vor-ubuntu> PrivateVoid: I agree

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:55 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone not responding to the thread -> inactive

[Tue Jul  8 23:36:56 2008] <m_newton> spiderbatdad: 5 sounds nice

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:02 2008] <PrivateVoid> Channel here or a post check

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:08 2008] <m_newton> but we cant just mark them inactive now

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:09 2008] <glade88> set up a thread like.. if youre active then reply ;)

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:13 2008] <PrivateVoid> if they are not in channel and not posting in the forums....

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:20 2008] <m_newton> it is summer, many popl are off 2 vacation

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:28 2008] <PrivateVoid> if we really have a question we can send them a PM on the forums

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> That way, I do not have to track anyone and it is up to them to respopnd to the thread.

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:34 2008] <m_newton> Y not gather emails and try to contact them

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:36 2008] <spiderbatdad> nhandler forum activity can be checked via the forum

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:39 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would set things to 90 days of inactivity

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:42 2008] <nhandler> But make sure you make it clear that the thread is only for current members. Otherwise, you will have a lot of non-members applying to be part of the team in the thread

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:50 2008] <Rocket2DMn> see http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=469546

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:50 2008] <PrivateVoid> large enough period of time, but not too long

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:55 2008] <nhandler> spiderbatdad, But forum activity is different than BT activity

[Tue Jul  8 23:37:56 2008] <bodhi_zazen> good point nhandler

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:18 2008] <m_newton> PrivateVoid: Thats a bot 2 low, how does 120 sound

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:25 2008] <m_newton> 120 days

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "Shoud we use a fourms thread"

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:35 2008] <spiderbatdad> nhandler when I joined BT 5 hours a week of fourm activity was one way to fulfill obligation

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:38 2008] <m_newton> cuz, i am going to india for roughly 3 weeks

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> details to be worked out later

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:47 2008] <m_newton> many ppl o for a long time

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:53 2008] <PrivateVoid> m_newton, 90 days = 3 months roughly

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:53 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:55 2008] <nhandler> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:38:55 2008] <m_newton> like 6weeks

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:02 2008] <glade88> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:04 2008] <PrivateVoid> +0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:04 2008] <m_newton> or 1 year

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:11 2008] <spiderbatdad> +0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:12 2008] <Maddeth> +0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:13 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:15 2008] <nhandler> PrivateVoid, It is simply 0, not +0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:19 2008] <hetirv> +0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:19 2008] <spiderbatdad> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:19 2008] <PrivateVoid> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:22 2008] <hetirv> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:24 2008] <rrajbe> hi every one. :) Extremly sorry for comming very very late.Very good morning

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:26 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:32 2008] <bodhi_zazen> np rrajbe

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:37 2008] <hetirv> morning rrajbe

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:49 2008] <glade88> what does this mean.. we still have a thread?

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:50 2008] <m_newton> umsrrajbe: voting on weather or not we should have for

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:51 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Any other suggestions ? we need something "simple"

[Tue Jul  8 23:39:56 2008] <rrajbe> hi hetirv

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:04 2008] <m_newton> rrajbe: voting on weather or not we should have for

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:15 2008] <nhandler> What about a mass email/pm?

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:19 2008] <spiderbatdad> new vote please

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:27 2008] <spiderbatdad> forum thread sounds easiest

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:28 2008] <PrivateVoid> bodhi_zazen, what are we trying to determine with the thread?

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:29 2008] <m_newton> ya aggreed

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:32 2008] <glade88> like reply to the email if active

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler, but then we have to maintain an email list :(

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:37 2008] <Rocket2DMn> not everybody checks that area of the forum tho

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, Just ask "Are you still interested"

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:46 2008] <m_newton> Call for a new vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:51 2008] <ajmorris> nhandler, it would take time to track down all the emails... we dont have a mailing list with everyone on it

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:55 2008] <bodhi_zazen> If people do not respond -> inactive

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:57 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, What about PMs? We already have their forum usernames

[Tue Jul  8 23:40:58 2008] <glade88> is there a mailing list?

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:02 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would think a PM from you or another 'leader' would be the best

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> a problem with PMs is they might just say "yes" then disappear again

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:12 2008] <nhandler> +1 PrivateVoid

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:15 2008] <PrivateVoid> that way there would be no public pressure... and no I missed seeing the thread

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> If they respond, but have not been acitive on forums / channel -> BZ to PM

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:21 2008] <glade88> best is to have a thread..

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:29 2008] <rrajbe> +1 PVoid

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:34 2008] <ajmorris> bodhi_zazen, what about getting as many users as possible to join lp, and getting a mailing list? i have submitted for one for ua... takes a while to respond though

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:41 2008] <PrivateVoid> they can say yes in th thread and just disappear too.

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:48 2008] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn, a reply to the PM at least shows that they are checking the forums and are interested in being a part of the team

[Tue Jul  8 23:41:58 2008] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, they may just get an email alert

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:01 2008] <glade88> create a mailing list at google groups temporarily?

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:11 2008] <ajmorris> we have one there already glade88

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:11 2008] <hetirv> I like the PM

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:17 2008] <ajmorris> but lp would be better...

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:25 2008] <m_newton> same, could we do both??

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:26 2008] <rrajbe> ok for every one i have a small request .could any one solve it please.

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:27 2008] <glade88> right

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:30 2008] <nhandler> ajmorris, But the BT currently doesn't have an LP team there

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I like the idea of launchpad

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ok, maybe this topic should be changed to "how do we keep track of members"

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:37 2008] <nhandler> We only have a team for LP Answers

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:39 2008] <ajmorris> yes we do nhandler

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:41 2008] <glade88> BT has a lp team

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:48 2008] <PrivateVoid> there is a beginners team on LP, but it is not us

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:48 2008] <glade88> ya

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:52 2008] <st33med> Rocket2DMn, we put cookies in their browsers ;)

[Tue Jul  8 23:42:59 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am a member there too... though they do not seem to be active

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:01 2008] <nhandler> The LP team is for LP Answers. We should have a different team for BT members

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:02 2008] <glade88> and many members there have not even showed up once here

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:05 2008] <hetirv> -1 st33med

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:06 2008] <m_newton> st33med: heh

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:14 2008] <hetirv> no cookies from you

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:15 2008] <Rocket2DMn> that LP group is of LP Answers, not UF

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:16 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, in the absence of any consensus on an alternate, I am going with a thread on the forums for now

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:17 2008] <glade88> nhandler: yes

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:30 2008] <st33med> thread for what?

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> we can re address other options later

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:36 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol st33med

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:43 2008] <st33med> I'm late -_-

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:49 2008] <glade88> thread would be in ABT?

[Tue Jul  8 23:43:59 2008] <nhandler> glade88, The thread would be in the BT forum

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, do you want to talk about meeting lengthe ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:09 2008] <Rocket2DMn> yes

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:10 2008] <glade88> ic

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:11 2008] <bodhi_zazen> glade88, no in the BT sub forums :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:17 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go Rocket2DMn

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:28 2008] <Rocket2DMn> obviously these meetings take quite some time, its already been 45 minutes, the last meeting was like an hour and a half.

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> it may not seem that long, but it takes a chunk out of the day

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:52 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i think we really need to make a good effort to keep these to 1 hour max

[Tue Jul  8 23:44:55 2008] <m_newton> we still have 20 min in this hour

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:09 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:10 2008] <Rocket2DMn> we're already doing better today than the last few months

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:20 2008] <st33med> Rocket2DMn, should we make premature with people before the meetings?

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:20 2008] <Rocket2DMn> the focus group chat took forever before today

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:21 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Last meeting was disrupted by chatter, IMO

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:32 2008] <nhandler> The issue with this is, we only have 1 meeting a month. I think we could achieve this goal by adding in a second meeting each month.

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:47 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would like that.

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:49 2008] <glade88> in that case.. we have not more than 15 mins in hand ;)

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:52 2008] <st33med> Like, we could talk about an issue and make a decision without acting on it?>

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:57 2008] <hetirv> Rocket2DMn, could we start a thread in the sub fourm with the agenda and have some of the decussion there?

[Tue Jul  8 23:45:57 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "should we have 2 meetings / month"

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:00 2008] <PrivateVoid> one week day and one week end

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:02 2008] <vor-ubuntu> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:03 2008] <st33med> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:04 2008] <PrivateVoid> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:05 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i guess from here on Focus Group teams can make a 1 line announcement asking if ppl are interested in something they are doing, then they can discuss it in their own meetings

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:05 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:06 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:07 2008] <Maddeth> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:09 2008] <glade88> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:09 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:13 2008] <Rocket2DMn> -1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:15 2008] <spiderbatdad> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:24 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:42 2008] <rrajbe> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:43 2008] <Rocket2DMn> isnt it hard enough getting everybody here once a month?

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, lest try 2 meetings / month for a while

[Tue Jul  8 23:46:58 2008] <st33med> 2/3 of pop voted for, passed

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:01 2008] <bodhi_zazen> yes Rocket2DMn , but if there is an interest it should work

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:06 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ok

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:07 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:09 2008] <rrajbe> it will increse relation and improve performance of UF

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:18 2008] <st33med> How bout we could talk about an issue and make a decision without acting on it?>

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Old is not here

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:26 2008] <st33med> before the meeting?

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:29 2008] <Rocket2DMn> same time but 3rd tuesday of the month instead of first?

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:37 2008] <Rocket2DMn> *along with first tuesday*

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:46 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:47 2008] <ajmorris> how about a day other than tuesday?

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:58 2008] <Maddeth> how about an hour earlier :p

[Tue Jul  8 23:47:58 2008] <st33med> caturday ^.^

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:00 2008] <bodhi_zazen> but I want to see if we have enough interested members ot have a meeting at an alternate time

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:04 2008] <PrivateVoid> I would make one a week day and one a week end

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:06 2008] <bodhi_zazen> for other time zones

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:09 2008] <Saj0577> +1 ajmorris

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:11 2008] <m_newton> aggreed with Maddeth

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:14 2008] <PrivateVoid> might make some of the toehr time zones easier

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:19 2008] <m_newton> +1 Maddeth

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:21 2008] <ajmorris> yeah, or at least at another time

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:27 2008] <ajmorris> im in class at this time on tuesdays...

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:32 2008] <Rocket2DMn> if you make the meetings earlier in the day, it should be weekends

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:35 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, we can discuss meeting times later :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:36 2008] <st33med> I have a suggestion...

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:39 2008] <spiderbatdad> we should meet every Monday night :P

[Tue Jul  8 23:48:43 2008] <m_newton> st33med: go

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:03 2008] <PrivateVoid> or we should meet Friday from beer o' clock to closing time

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:08 2008] <st33med> Why not talk about the issue when we are not in a meeting and not act on our decision?

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:10 2008] <m_newton> spiderbatdad: i like that

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:17 2008] <Rocket2DMn> remember guys, this channel is always available for discussing subjects even when we arent meeting.  if you hammer out something solid witha few other ppl, it can be covered quickly during a meeting

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:25 2008] <st33med> Then. we can make a prompt vote in the meeting

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:31 2008] <st33med> less time used

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:34 2008] <m_newton> spiderbatdad: but when it is night here it is not night else where

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:35 2008] <Rocket2DMn> lol st33med

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:38 2008] <st33med> :D

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:47 2008] <spiderbatdad> snap*

[Tue Jul  8 23:49:58 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone want to discuss team avatar / identification issues ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:08 2008] <spiderbatdad> avatar is ugly

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:10 2008] <hetirv> maybe a forum thread/s for that

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:10 2008] <glade88> can we have a sweeter one?

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:10 2008] <spiderbatdad> :P

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:10 2008] <vor-ubuntu> I like the thing that PrivateVoid made.

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:11 2008] <st33med> I LOST MY IDENTITY!!!!

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:16 2008] <st33med> :D

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:18 2008] <spiderbatdad> no offense PV

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:18 2008] <PrivateVoid> I am more than happy to make additional borders...

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:30 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i think one unified border is best

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:42 2008] <hetirv> One border but something thiner

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:43 2008] <ajmorris> what is wrong with the avatar?

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:47 2008] <glade88> the one bodhi holds is cool.. sleek..

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:47 2008] <ajmorris> it is very ubuntu

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:53 2008] <PrivateVoid> and I think we should have a unified border or a 'badge' type thing that is common

[Tue Jul  8 23:50:58 2008] <m_newton> aggreed

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:07 2008] <PrivateVoid> I do hate the orange, but it is Ubuntu...

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:09 2008] <m_newton> bodhi_zazen: mind sharing ur avitar?

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:11 2008] <nhandler> +1 PrivateVoid

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:12 2008] <PrivateVoid> <ack>

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol PrivateVoid made it for me :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:30 2008] <m_newton> orange is mi favorite color mate

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:32 2008] <Rocket2DMn> unless we want to identify by a forum controlled set of coffee cups

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:33 2008] <tinivole> I think just the BT logo will do for me :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:37 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I have a tiger I am going to change to ...

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:47 2008] <ajmorris> Rocket2DMn, that was discussed ages ago...

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:50 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i know

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:51 2008] <m_newton> no, lets have something extravigant

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:51 2008] <glade88> why not a translucent badge

[Tue Jul  8 23:51:53 2008] <ajmorris> it ended up we couldnt get them

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:00 2008] <st33med> OR...

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:01 2008] <Rocket2DMn> ok, didnt know the word was in on that

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:03 2008] <bodhi_zazen> PrivateVoid, we need a frame everyone can use w/ gimp ???

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:03 2008] <rrajbe> what is present is good.But if it is like something resembling ubuntu and Open source like a penguin it will be better.

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:25 2008] <PrivateVoid> bodhi_zazen, I posted the orange one in a gimp format in the thread

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:26 2008] <st33med> We could ask for a specialized bean title or text title

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:27 2008] <hetirv> bah Tux is overdone

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:28 2008] <m_newton> TUX... naw

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:36 2008] <Rocket2DMn> a lot of people prefer to have their own avatar, but something like a border is good b/c you can stick your own avatar in it

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:44 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, We should have the frame available in multiple formats as well

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:46 2008] <m_newton> i think we need some cool glossy thing

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:50 2008] <bodhi_zazen> rrajbe, right now we like the idea of a frame, allows people the freedom to express themseves

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:51 2008] <hetirv> can the border be smaller??

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:51 2008] <st33med> We could ask for a specialized bean title or text title

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:54 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i have a tux avatar which i like, but there are too many other cool ones

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:55 2008] <spiderbatdad> st33emed +!

[Tue Jul  8 23:52:57 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I suggest overdrank's avatar

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:02 2008] <ajmorris> we tried that st33med, we werent allowed

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:06 2008] <st33med> ah ok

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I do not think we will get any title, just avatars

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:30 2008] <m_newton> something like windows with the gloss,  Bg like that of ubuntu and a BT in the font darkcrystal

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:34 2008] <glade88> theyll kill me if I ask anything related to beans now..

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:42 2008] <m_newton> That will be an amazing logo

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:44 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK then, we can discuss avatar later too

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:48 2008] <m_newton> and avatar

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:53 2008] <m_newton> awww

[Tue Jul  8 23:53:59 2008] <PrivateVoid> I can easily do a windows gloss like effect...

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:04 2008] <m_newton> btw 10 mins remining in the hour

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:05 2008] <glade88> lol

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:10 2008] <bodhi_zazen> New user mentoring ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:16 2008] <nhandler> That was my idea

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> go nhandler

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> you have 10 min

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:33 2008] <bodhi_zazen> or less :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:39 2008] <m_newton> heh

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:42 2008] <nhandler> I'll copy/paste from the wiki to give everyone a brief overview to start

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:46 2008] <nhandler> New User Mentoring: The Ubuntu MOTU currently have a mentoring system in place. A new contributor is paired with a MOTU mentor. The mentor helps the new contributor learn the basic tools and processes. We should implement our own mentoring system. However, instead of mentoring new contributors, we would mentor new users to Linux/Ubuntu. The mentor would help teach the new user basic tasks such as installing

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:47 2008] <nhandler> /removing applications, basic terminal usage, and where they can look for additional help/documentation.

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:54 2008] <st33med> GAH

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:55 2008] <st33med> FLOOD

[Tue Jul  8 23:54:59 2008] <spiderbatdad>  what a flooder

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:05 2008] <st33med> !flood

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:06 2008] <ubot3> pastebin is a service to post multiple-lined texts so you don't flood the channel. The Ubuntu pastebin is at http://paste.ubuntu.com (make sure you give us the URL for your paste - see also the channel topic)

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:12 2008] <st33med> :D

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:13 2008] <bodhi_zazen> lol

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:20 2008] <m_newton> i like the idea

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:25 2008] <glade88> BLARG!!

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:39 2008] <ajmorris> we could use ##beginners-classroom for it...

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:40 2008] <m_newton> but we need knowledgeble ppl to do this

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> The idea of mentoring has been discussed for a while, it has not taken off too much

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:46 2008] <ajmorris> and have team mentoring sessions

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:50 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i like the idea as well.  i think the master/mentor should basically just show the padawan around the team.  Show them the wiki stuff, focus groups, other team members, etc.

[Tue Jul  8 23:55:51 2008] <st33med> ah yes

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:02 2008] <st33med> I can has python master?

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:04 2008] <m_newton> ANY Volunteres for this???

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:04 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1 Rocket2DMn

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:16 2008] <vor-ubuntu> nhandler: I just put my yahoo and MSN IM icons in my posts and sometimes people ask me questions with more depth and come back later and ask more.

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> do we want to extend the mentoring on this team then ?

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:27 2008] <nhandler> I wasn't thinking about limiting this simply to the BT Rocket2DMn. I was thinking about having the "mentee" being any new ubuntu users

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:32 2008] <nhandler> +1 bodhi_zazen

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:33 2008] <st33med> I am mentoring for the Python programming

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:33 2008] <m_newton> So why not decide on the topics for the new ppl that come?

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:37 2008] <billgoldberg> I've been away for a while, did you guys discuss my application yet?

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:39 2008] <bodhi_zazen> m_newton, I think we should start with the BT, and then extend to ubuntu in general :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:44 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i think trying to expand to new ubuntu users is a hefty task

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:49 2008] <Rocket2DMn> there are thousands of them

[Tue Jul  8 23:56:53 2008] <m_newton> ok

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:02 2008] <Rocket2DMn> it sorta nullifies the purpose of the forums

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:07 2008] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn, Yes, but how many do you think would take us up on the offer?

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:18 2008] <m_newton> Rocket2DMn: ya, but we can manage if we put in the effort

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Once we build some kind of basic structure / mentoring we can extend it

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:29 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i think people will basically see it as "my own personal help source"

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:30 2008] <st33med> bodhi_zazen, can I schedule my Python 101 mentoring sometime this weekday?

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:42 2008] <nhandler> I'll talk with paultag about the mentoring bodhi_zazen

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:45 2008] <bodhi_zazen> The idea of individual mentoring has not been well recieved on the forums

[Tue Jul  8 23:57:49 2008] <m_newton> i aggree with bodhi_zazen We need to start at the beggining and slowly extend it

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:02 2008] <glade88> mentoring *only* for padawans?

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:06 2008] <st33med> ah, so...

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:07 2008] <Rocket2DMn> individual mentoring takes the community out of it, which is counterproductive

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:08 2008] <bodhi_zazen> the attitude of the forums is that the forums are for public discussion , not private mentoring

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:25 2008] <bodhi_zazen> with public forums many more people benefit from posts then private mentoring

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:32 2008] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen, This is because most people feel that the mentoring takes away from the concept of sharing answers. I think we need to find a way to make the information that is exchanged between the mentor/mentee public

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:34 2008] <m_newton> Why not VOTE on weather we want this mentoring program. If yes, we can assign ppl to 'man' it and assign leaders

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> yes

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:44 2008] <PrivateVoid> I prefer copyleft mentoring

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:48 2008] <st33med> Ummm... I was talking about IRC mentoring

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:53 2008] <m_newton> same

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:58 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i think we have confusion about what kind of mentoring we want

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:58 2008] <st33med> PrivateVoid, mine is copyright...

[Tue Jul  8 23:58:59 2008] <st33med> LD

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:06 2008] <st33med> :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:07 2008] <m_newton> IRC mentering = more 'hands on'

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:08 2008] <Rocket2DMn> i think mentoring new team members is a great idea

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:08 2008] <ajmorris> we should keep the mentoring to within the team for the moment...

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:11 2008] <glade88> Im not sure about mentoring.. can imagine replying to PMs asking for assistance

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:14 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Well , we already haev a mentoring team started :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:24 2008] <m_newton> bodhi_zazen: like?

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:31 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "Shoud the BT look at mentoring ?"

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:35 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:38 2008] <st33med> +10000

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Team/FocusGroups/Education

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:40 2008] <Rocket2DMn> bodhi_zazen, what kind of mentoring are we voting on

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:41 2008] <spiderbatdad> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:41 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:41 2008] <hetirv> I think that the Master Padawan setup is a good basis for new BT members Mentoring

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:42 2008] <st33med> dang

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:46 2008] <st33med> +1

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:51 2008] <vor-ubuntu> 0

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:52 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, I do not know yest :)

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:55 2008] <m_newton> bodhi_zazen: ya, but the thing is not developed

[Tue Jul  8 23:59:59 2008] <Rocket2DMn> well that doesnt make a vote very useful

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:00 2008] <Maddeth> +0

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:01 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:09 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Rocket2DMn, It is just a start

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:11 2008] <Maddeth> 0

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:14 2008] <tinivole> -

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:15 2008] <tinivole> 0

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:16 2008] <Maddeth> oops :)

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:17 2008] <Rocket2DMn> -1

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:17 2008] <rrajbe> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:19 2008] <m_newton> bodhi_zazen: we need a better pae to start, a more complete one

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> I do not expect resolution w/ this meeting

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:24 2008] <hetirv> 0

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:25 2008] <m_newton> page

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:40 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone want to change their vote ?

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:44 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:46 2008] <PrivateVoid> I do think that some of the topics we have in here would be better served by having a discussion thread about it for a while

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:46 2008] <m_newton> nope

[Wed Jul  9 00:00:56 2008] <m_newton> the fors have it

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:03 2008] <nhandler> PrivateVoid, By thread, do you mean on the forums?

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:07 2008] <PrivateVoid> mentoring it probably one of those

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:10 2008] <PrivateVoid> yeah on the forums

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:21 2008] <marc_kaplan> if I can address the mentoring for a second

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:22 2008] <m_newton> bodhi_zazen: What did we decide on the 2 times a month for meeting

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:30 2008] <bodhi_zazen> OK, the members intereseted in mentoring, please discuss the issue

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:34 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Anything else ?

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:35 2008] <m_newton> go ahead marc_kaplan

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:40 2008] <marc_kaplan> thanks

[Wed Jul  9 00:01:53 2008] <marc_kaplan> I'm definitely a complete newb here when it comes to the docsteam

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:05 2008] <marc_kaplan> I was completely overwhelmed by everything

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:13 2008] <marc_kaplan> the todo..3 to 4 different pages

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:20 2008] <marc_kaplan> multiple team pages....

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:23 2008] <bodhi_zazen> m_newton, We well haev 2 meetings / month for a while, need to determine alternate times ???

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:41 2008] <marc_kaplan> and I signed up for the mentoring team, I got one email.  I replied to them and haven't heard back

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:46 2008] <m_newton> oh

[Wed Jul  9 00:02:53 2008] <bodhi_zazen> marc_kaplan, That is part of why we have "focus groups" here

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:08 2008] <m_newton> try ##beginners-

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:14 2008] <m_newton> try ##beginners-classroom

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:31 2008] <ajmorris> which mentoring team marc_kaplan? ubuntu-nun?

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:41 2008] <bodhi_zazen> And I think we shoud start by extending the "master / padawan " idea w/ "masters" guiding the new ones

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:55 2008] <st33med> Am I a master?

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:58 2008] <spiderbatdad> meeting adjourned?

[Wed Jul  9 00:03:59 2008] <marc_kaplan> Ubuntu Documentation Students

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:07 2008] <bodhi_zazen> marc_kaplan, yea, they seem to expect you to take a little inititive

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> marc_kaplan, check out #ubuntu-doc

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:15 2008] <ajmorris> kk

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:18 2008] <m_newton> time is officially passing the 1 hour mark

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:20 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Any other meeting items ?

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:29 2008] <bodhi_zazen> going once

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:30 2008] <nhandler> Nope

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:34 2008] <PrivateVoid> bodhi_zazen, no

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:35 2008] <nhandler> oh yes

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:38 2008] <bodhi_zazen> going twice

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:38 2008] <nhandler> VoteBot

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:38 2008] <PrivateVoid> next time perhaps

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:41 2008] <nhandler> We need to vote on VoteBot

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:48 2008] <st33med> lol

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:49 2008] <tinivole> lol

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:51 2008] <glade88> ?

[Wed Jul  9 00:04:53 2008] <m_newton> ya lets do it

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:01 2008] <m_newton> we have 24 seconds

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:03 2008] <st33med> .vote on myself

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:05 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote "votebot o.O"

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:08 2008] <spiderbatdad> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:09 2008] <vor-ubuntu> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:10 2008] <st33med> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:10 2008] <hetirv> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:11 2008] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:12 2008] <nhandler> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:12 2008] <m_newton> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:13 2008] <glade88> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:15 2008] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:16 2008] <m_newton> 3

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:18 2008] <m_newton> 2

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:21 2008] <m_newton> TIME

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:22 2008] <bodhi_zazen> .vote

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:23 2008] <ajmorris> +1

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:30 2008] <m_newton> heh

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:38 2008] <st33med> \o/

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:43 2008] <st33med>  |

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:46 2008] <st33med> | |

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:47 2008] <m_newton> WELCOME VoteBot

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:49 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ============

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:52 2008] <m_newton> u r my here

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:54 2008] <bodhi_zazen> Meeting over

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:55 2008] <st33med> END MEETING

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:56 2008] <m_newton> hero

[Wed Jul  9 00:05:56 2008] <bodhi_zazen> ============
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
