{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

/*

Detailed instructions to the reporter on how to fill out this installation report should be in a comments section here at the beginning of the page.

Give your installation report page a unique name, and add it to the wiki at the end of this path:

   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/SubTeams/TestingSubTeam/InstallationReports/YourReportHere

An ideal name would include an identifier for yourself (such as your wiki name) a name for the machine to which you are doing the installation, and perhaps a sequence number starting with a zero. The sequence number is useful since you will probably install to the same hardware multiple times. For example:

   CDavidRigbyDeepThought01 (All of my computers are named after robots or AIs from science fiction)

The labels below are self-explanatory, so just "fill in the blanks".

* /

/* The macro code below gives us a table of contents and should not be changed. */
Instructions: please copy the contents of this page to your report page, as described in the comments in this template's code.

===== Distro/Version =====
* Distro Installed:
* Distro Version:
* Installation method (CD, USB, PXE boot, etc.):

===== Computer Description =====
* Computer Manufacturer, Model Name:
* CPU Type and Speed:
* RAM installed or specified to the kernel:
* Hard disk type, capacity and partitions set up:
* Video Card:
* Display:
* Networking:
* Audio Hardware:

===== Installation Procedure =====

/* This is pretty free-form. Please provide both objective and subjective results in as much detail as you can. For example, if you tried to boot from CD, did the installer start correctly or not? If not, did you get an error message? If yes, did it seem slow, OK, or fast?

Continue your report, paying particular attention to point out where things were confusing or broken! */

===== Summary =====

/* Your final thoughts, particularly what you think should be improved. Thanks! */
