{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Shared Terminal Session ===
Instructions follow to connect to the virtual shared terminal for use during Education Focus Group Sessions.

How to use the system :

Guest account.

The guest account will connect to educational sessions "automatically", is "read only", and may not be available outside of educational sessions. "Read only" means guests will be able to watch commands and configuration in real time, but they will not be able to run commands in the session (that is what your own box is for ;) )

To connect to the educational sessions as a guest :

1. Download the ufbt-guest ssh key from : 

* Linux users :

	SSH Key : http://bodhizazen.net/beginners/ufbt-guest

	How to ssh : https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSHHowto#Logging%20in%20from%20other%20computers

	As a side note, you do not need to install anything. 
	All major linux distro come with the ssh client already installed.
	You DO NOT need to install openssh-server,
	Just read the client section "Logging in from other computers"

* Windows users can connect with putty. 

	Putty Key : http://bodhizazen.net/beginners/ufbt-guest.ppk

	Putty home page : http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html

	How to putty : http://www.howtoforge.com/ssh_key_based_logins_putty

* Windows users can also use cygwin (but that will not be covered here).

	Cygwin : http://www.cygwin.com/

2. Save or move the ufbt-guest ssh key to your home directory (abbreviated with a ~) in ~/.ssh (if the directory does not exist simply mkdir ~/.ssh).

3. Set the permissions of the key using a terminal:

	chmod 400 ~/.ssh/ufbt-guest

4. ssh in from a terminal with 

* ssh guest@bodhizazen.net -i ~/.ssh/ufbt-guest

* The password is : padawan

5. Read the welcome message and press enter, you will then automatically connect.

6. To exit either hit the control-a then d keys or simply close your terminal

Warning: If you make mutiple attempts to log in your IP address will be black listed.

Tips: use KeepAlive to connect so your session does not TIMEOUT

	TIMEOUT = automatic disconnection.

	Linux : 

		http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/02/03/keeping-ssh-sessions-alive/

		Edit /etc/ssh/ssh_config

	

		Add this line :

		ServerAliveInterval 120

	Windows (Putty) :

		Click the " " tab in the left panes=l
		use 120 in the " " box.

----

CategoryBeginnersTeam
