{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| ZachK_
| Topic 1 - Joining the Wiki FG?
|-
| ZachK_
| Topic 2 - Summer of Documentation?
|-
| ZachK_
| Topic 3 - What do we want to focus on doing?
|-
| ZachK_
| Topic 4 - Any suggestions, ideas, or other stuff....
|-
| ZachK_
| Topic 5 -
|}

=== Agenda Links and Notes ===
'''New LP Team:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-wiki|Moderated]]</nowiki>, Members of BT team can apply. Paddy's/other collaborators will have to wait for approval on main team.

== Meeting Agreements ==

'''Topic 1: Joining the Wiki FG?'''
* It was decided that to join the Wiki FG two requirements must be met. One, you must be a full member of the Beginners Team. Two, you must have at least one example of your wiki abilities. E.G. A page that you did a major edit on, not just some spelling/grammar correction on.

'''Topic 2: Summer of Documentation Project'''
* As this project covers both the Ubuntu Team Wiki and the Help.Ubuntu/community site, it was decided that the SoD Project would focus on updating the Help.Ubuntu/community site more than the Team Wiki. ''We'll still cover both just one more than the other...''

'''Topic 3: What do we want to focus on doing?'''
* Our main focus at this time will be to continue updating and cleaning up the Team Wiki & Help Site.

'''Topic 4: Any suggestions, ideas, or other stuff....'''
* We really didn't have any at this time...

== Meeting Log ==
{{{#!IRC
[3:41:27] <swoody> :)
[3:45:18] <ZachK_> ddecator: you ready?
[3:45:27] <ddecator> oh, sure
[3:45:48] <ZachK_> I think we'll hold it now swoody..u too ddecator and I'll just send a log of it to the list
[3:46:02] <ddecator> ZachK_: your call :)
[3:46:39] <ZachK_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki#Meeting Agenda
[3:46:51] <ZachK_> dang it..my mom is calling me...i'll be back
[3:46:56] <ddecator> haha
[3:47:01] <ZachK_> that'll give you guys to think on questions
[3:59:33] <ZachK_> sorry
[3:59:34] <ZachK_> back
[4:00:46] <ddecator> no prob
[4:01:57] <ZachK_> ok so questions
[4:02:26] <ddecator> i'll probably have some as we go through the topics, but atm i don't have any
[4:03:21] <ZachK_> ok
[4:03:36] <ZachK_> well right now we have a big project as i'm sure you guys know
[4:03:42] <ddecator> SoD?
[4:03:46] <ZachK_> yes
[4:04:00] <ZachK_> ddecator: that page you did can be your first page for the project
[4:04:12] <ddecator> sounds good to me
[4:04:39] <ddecator>: i know kermiac and myself are going to try and help improve bugsquad wiki pages along with others in BS
[4:04:50] <ZachK_> ok
[4:05:06] <ddecator> and i'm going to potentially help update the firefox bug reporting and triage pages
[4:05:19] <ZachK_> well any page that receives major improvement is a page to put on our project page
[4:05:26] <ZachK_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki/SoD2010
[4:05:45] <ZachK_> the field "Wiki Pages" is where you put the page info
[4:05:50] <ddecator> bookemarks
[4:05:53] <ZachK_> under the one that i've listed
[4:05:55] <ddecator> bookmarks een
[4:05:57] <ddecator> even
[4:06:11] <ddecator> want me to put my page on there?
[4:06:42] <ZachK_> yes
[4:08:43] <ddecator> done
[4:09:32] <ddecator> or it will be if it ever saves...
[4:09:59] <ddecator> there
[4:10:51] <ZachK_> awesome
[4:10:58] <ZachK_> once again i must go....ARGH!
[4:11:54] <ddecator> haha, i need to get food. should we just postpone the meeting?
[4:12:25] <swoody> lol, oh sure when I'm done being AFK, you guys head out :P
[4:12:49] <ddecator> well if we can actually finish this thing, i can stay, but i'm kinda hungry :p
[4:13:15] <swoody> well, not sure how long Zach is gonna be... :/
[4:13:34] <ddecator> exactly
[4:14:22] <swoody> so it's your call, I'm sure we could put this off for a few more mins and it wouldn't be an issue :)
[4:15:58] <ddecator> well i'm just wondering if we should wait for more people to be on or not, haha
[4:19:13] <ddecator> i need food, i'm gonna go get some, if we want to continue when i get back that's fine with me (should only take me 10-15min since i'm bringing it back here)
[4:33:32] <swoody> left the room (quit: Quit: leaving).
[4:35:03] <ddecator> alright, back
[4:36:37] <swoody> [~swoody@ubuntu/member/swoody] entered the room.
[4:36:37] <mode> (+v swoody) by ChanServ
[4:39:49] <ZachK_> back
[4:39:53] <ZachK_> sorry guys...
[4:40:12] <ddecator> swoody: you ready?
[4:40:18] <mode> (-o ZachK_) by ChanServ
[4:40:27] <swoody> yup, I'm good :)
[4:40:46] <ddecator> alright, lets do this
[4:40:49] <ZachK_> ok
[4:40:53] <swoody> wooo!
[4:41:07] <ZachK_> ddecator just so yo know swoody is now my co-lead
[4:41:19] <ddecator> ZachK_ sounds good to me
[4:41:35] <ZachK_> if i'm not here but he is and you need authoritative help with something go to him...
[4:41:40] <ddecator> he is a wiki pro apparently :p
[4:41:52] <ddecator> haha, would have anyway, i'm his padawan
[4:41:56] <ddecator> but still good to know
[4:41:58] <swoody> lol, I wish I could do this for a living :)
[4:42:01] <ZachK_> ddecator swoody is a wiki superpower like me
[4:42:14] <ZachK_> i so would love to do this for a job too
[4:42:30] <ddecator> why can't canonical pay all of us? :p
[4:42:39] <swoody> hehe, $.01 per wiki?
[4:42:52] <ZachK_> lol
[4:43:24] <ddecator> well idk about wiki work...i'd take $.10 per bug report and $2 per packaged package
[4:43:59] smeag0l: hi everybody
[4:43:59] <ddecator> anywho, what's next for discussion?
[4:44:05] <ddecator> hey smeag0l, just in time :)
[4:44:05] <ZachK_> smeag0l: welcome
[4:44:26] <ZachK_> well joining the wiki fg is a question of mine
[4:44:34] smeag0l: i fell a sleep
[4:44:39] <ddecator> as in requirements?
[4:45:19] <ZachK_> well that is up to the council..and me too i think....depends on what the council decides as to the new membership process for the bt
[4:45:41] <ddecator> right, but you and swoody would decide specifics for the wiki fg right?
[4:45:53] <ZachK_> i don't know if they will change it for just the bt or the main team and the fg's
[4:46:15] <ZachK_> but yes me and swoods would most likely be able to give the council ideas as to what we think is best yes
[4:46:28] <ZachK_> I am just thinking maybe we could hash that part out now...
[4:46:39] <ddecator> yah, that was my impression for FGs, that the leaders would decide what good qualifications for each FG are
[4:46:44] <ZachK_> as proposed members what do you guys feel...
[4:47:03] <ddecator> well quality is more important than quantity i'm guessing
[4:47:44] <ZachK_> Definetely
[4:47:49] <ddecator> the hard part is not being able to put any real number on anything since wiki work can vary from correcting a grammar issue to writing a new page
[4:48:06] <ZachK_> Also a big thing with me...
[4:48:43] <ddecator> ...is?
[4:49:10] <ZachK_> I feel that you should have at least one example of a major edit that the proposed member has done to show that they understand wiki...also not knowing wiki is understandable but learning the wiki is part of the padawanship in my opinion
[4:49:25] <ZachK_> swoody thoughts?
[4:49:42] <ddecator> i don't think it should be part of the BT padawanship
[4:50:13] <swoody> well, I wouldn't include grammatical edits or small things of that nature... they can be very useful, but they don't really make a grand impact overall [not trying to belittle anyone who makes grammer edits, as they are still needed)
[4:50:28] <ddecator> the hard part with requiring even 1 major edit per proposed member is the possibility that they may not be able to find one. maybe if there was a list on the wiki of big edits that need doing for proposed members to take on?
[4:50:34] <ZachK_> well when the padawan makes a new wiki page for themselves they will learn wiki so it's part of it yes
[4:50:58] <ZachK_> ddecator there is indeed
[4:51:21] <swoody> but I do think some 'major' contributions are needed, i.e. adding an entire section to a page, creating a new page completely, updating a lot of out of date info, verifiying entire pages of links, etc.
[4:51:25] <ddecator> oh yah, creating the personal wiki is part of the padawn thing...i forgot that the basics like that are included since we got to skip that :p
[4:51:43] <ddecator> right
[4:51:45] <swoody> and if I recall, there is a place to find wikis that require work...
[4:51:51] <swoody> have to find that link...
[4:51:54] <ZachK_> swoody i'm trying to find that link...
[4:52:09] <ddecator> i think that's where i found the software center thing, haha
[4:52:12] <ZachK_> got it! https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Development
[4:52:33] <ddecator> and sure enough
[4:52:42] <ddecator> so clearly that page needs to be more known and easier to find ;)
[4:54:37] <swoody> also see the list of tags here: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag
[4:54:45] <swoody> each one has a link to all the pages with that tag
[4:55:07] <ZachK_> ddecator that page i listed is found on the bt wiki page header...the tag "Development"
[4:55:21] <ZachK_> duanedesign was going to change that soon i believe
[4:55:40] <ddecator> but having done one major edit is too basic of a requirement, so what else? at least 5 minor edits? active with the fg for a month?
[4:55:57] <swoody> so for example, this is the list of all pages that are related to an unsupported version of Ubuntu: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag/Unsupported/List
[4:56:34] <ddecator> ZachK_ i'd ask duane since he isn't in this channel, just to be sure
[4:56:53] <ZachK_> been trying to get ahold of him for that purpose
[4:57:01] <ddecator> good deal
[4:57:28] <ddecator> but what other requirement[s) should there be?
[4:57:46] smeag0l: sorry about that i fell a sleep i thought the meeting was 4 pm so i just figured that i may as well sleep since ZachK_ didn't show up :[
[4:57:49] <ZachK_> ok so membership... ddecator i consider you a wiki member already due to your awesome work on that page...swoody is a member...has been for some time, and myself for sure
[4:58:00] <ZachK_> smeag0l: it's no biggie!
[4:58:10] smeag0l: good
[4:58:11] <ddecator> ZachK_ why thank you :)
[4:58:27] <swoody> ZachK_ well ddecator will be a member once he completes his padawanship and becomes a BT member :)
[4:58:37] <ZachK_> swoody Yes...
[4:58:42] <swoody> IIRC, you have to be a member of the BT in general, before you can join a FG
[4:58:45] <ddecator> heh, hopefully next meeting will have been enough time :p
[4:59:04] <swoody> :)
[4:59:26] <ZachK_> swoody what do you think? Think that'll be enough? I was only a padawan for three months and i got in...then again the process wasn't so strict back then either
[4:59:37] <swoody> well again, with the council creating the team requirements, they want to hold off on new membership votes until that is ironed out
[4:59:38] <ZachK_> man that was a long time ago it seems wasn't it swoods
[4:59:53] <ddecator> swoody yah, fair enough
[5:17:42] <ddecator> yes
[5:17:47] <ZachK_> ok swoody?
[5:18:19] <swoody> sounds good to me :)
[5:18:24] <ZachK_> Ok then!
[5:18:28] <ddecator> yay for productivity :)
[5:18:43] <ZachK_> Last main topic...the fateful Summer of Documentation
[5:19:16] <ddecator> haha, back to my last idea...for those of us involved in other teams, i know many (if not most) teams want to update their support wikis
[5:19:16] <ZachK_> We've got that page to put the major edit pages on so we know who's done what but how do we wanna go about it?
[5:19:43] <ZachK_> ddecator: cool...got a list?
[5:19:57] <ZachK_> oh and swoody you on facebook?
[5:20:08] <swoody> nope, don't do FB or myspace
[5:20:14] <ddecator> so mitch and i can help with bugsquad stuff, and i now nigel mentioned updating patch review wikis and apport-hook creation howto
[5:20:18] <ddecator> swoody: i wish i could drop fb
[5:20:21] <swoody> I have an email, and IRC nick ;)
[5:20:34] <ddecator> s/now/know
[5:21:25] <ZachK_> ok
[5:21:56] <ddecator> oh, and no, i don't think they've put a list of wiki pages that need work up yet. i'm subscribed to the blueprint though so i'll keep my eye on it to see if they make one
[5:22:12] <ZachK_> ok
[5:22:22] <ddecator> i know micah wants to update the firefox stuff, so i can help with that, but idk what the pages are, haha
[5:22:41] <ddecator> we really need to update the firefox triage page...
[5:23:30] <ddecator> but at this point i think most of the SoD work will be a "help when the need arises" kind of deal
[5:24:19] <swoody> true, I don't think we should really assign any particular areas or anything like that, but just aim to do and contribute more
[5:24:56] <swoody> maybe if people want to reserve a certain area, like on the other page you linked ZachK_ , we could probably do that, but I don't think it would really be needed
[5:25:28] <ddecator> nah, unless people want to say "i'm working on these things, let me know if you want to help out too" but even that isn't necessary imo
[5:25:30] <swoody> maybe if we come across a big section we want to redo, we can jot it down on the SoD page, with a completion by date, so we can keep eachother motivated and on track
[5:25:42] <ddecator> +1
[5:26:18] <swoody> but again, smaller stuff we just come across, or one day of lounging around in your PJ's working on wikis wouldn't really need it
[5:27:56] <ZachK_> ok..
[5:28:46] <ZachK_> That's it then...
}}}
