{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| Issuing the quiz to Padawans
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====
Quiz:
* Because of the large influx of new members, it is becoming too difficult for bodhi to issue the quiz to all of them.  Most people would probably prefer to keep the quiz as a prerequisite, so we need to decide who should be able to issue the quiz.  The Council? The padawan's master?  Another FG? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:rocket2dmn]]</nowiki> 

=== Log ===

<pre>
[00:10] <nhandler> #startmeeting
[00:10] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:10. The chair is nhandler.
[00:10] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:10] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:10] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:11] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Issuing the quiz to Padawans
[00:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Issuing the quiz to Padawans
[00:11] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Do you want to discuss this? Or should we defer it until bodhi is around?
[00:11] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, we need to wait for bodhi on that one
[00:12] <nhandler> [AGREED] Wait to discuss Issuing the quiz to Padawans until bodhizazen is present
[00:12] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Wait to discuss Issuing the quiz to Padawans until bodhizazen is present
[00:12] <nhandler> [TOPIC AOT]
[00:12] <nhandler> [TOPIC] AOT
[00:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  AOT
[00:12] <nhandler> Any other Topics to discuss?
[00:13] <yvan300> why are we the only ones participating?
[00:13] <starcraftman> Don't really have anything to add....
[00:13] <pleia2> I'm here, nothing to add :)
[00:14] <y_lee> yeah same here
[00:14] <popey> me too
[00:14] <swoody> +1
[00:14] <Rocket2DMn> I't pretty typical for late summer to be slow
[00:14] <yvan300> ok
[00:15] <nhandler> If there are no other topics to discuss, I would like to give a status update about some outstanding actions that I have been working on
[00:15] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Status update on outstanding actions
[00:15] <MootBot> New Topic:  Status update on outstanding actions
[00:15] <nhandler> The ##beginners-classroom channel has now been dropped. All classroom sessions should take place in #ubuntu-beginners
[00:15] <yvan300> nhandler: what do you mean?
[00:16] <nhandler> yvan300: About what?
[00:16] <pleia2> nhandler: wow, not in -classroom anymore?
[00:16] <pleia2> er #ubuntu-classroom
[00:16] <popey> thats surprising
[00:16] <yvan300> nhandler: outstanding actions topic
[00:16] <nhandler> pleia2: That is what I meant, sorry
[00:16] <pleia2> oh good :)
[00:16] <popey> :)
[00:16] <popey> back to sleep pleia2 :)
[00:16] <popey> (and I)
[00:16] <pleia2> hehe
[00:16] <starcraftman> oh ok, sounds fine then.
[00:16] <nhandler> Thanks for catching that pleia2
[00:17] <pleia2> np
[00:17] <nhandler> yvan300: Outstanding actions are items from previous meeting that people were assigned to take care of
[00:17] <yvan300> nhandler: link
[00:17] <nhandler> yvan300: Meeting logs are here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings and the Team Reports are here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/TeamReports
[00:18] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:18] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:18] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/TeamReports
[00:18] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/TeamReports
[00:19] <nhandler> I have also made some progress on the new mailing lists. An RT request has been filed, and it has been assigned to the appropriate owner. I will continue to follow up with this to ensure the list gets created
[00:19] <nhandler> [ACTION] nhandler to follow up on new mailing list creation
[00:19] <MootBot> ACTION received:  nhandler to follow up on new mailing list creation
[00:20] <Rocket2DMn> cool
[00:20] <nhandler> Since yvan300 has to go, lets do his membership vote
[00:20] <nhandler> [TOPIC] yvan300 membership
[00:20] <MootBot> New Topic:  yvan300 membership
[00:20] <nhandler> yvan300: Care to say a few words about yourself?
[00:21] <yvan300> well, i'm yvan pierre, a young lad who loves programming and helping others
[00:22] <nhandler> yvan300: What have you been doing with the Beginners Team?
[00:22] <yvan300> well since i began back in feburary, i spent my time getting to know the team, getting ck linked and helping other whenever i can in ubuntu-beginners-help
[00:24] <yvan300> i also became a part of ubuntu-beginners-ynu so that i can become a better, more polite person over the internet :P
[00:24] <nhandler> Anyone else have anything to say, or sould we vote?
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> bring on the vote!
[00:25] <swoody> +1 Rocket2DMn
[00:25] <nhandler> [VOTE] Should yvan300 become a member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team?
[00:25] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Should yvan300 become a member of the Ubuntu Beginners Team?.
[00:25] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:25] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:25] <nhandler> +0
[00:25] <MootBot> Abstention received from nhandler. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:25] <swoody> +1
[00:25] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:25] <tim_sharitt> +1
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:26] <MootBot> +1 received from tim_sharitt. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:26] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:26] <y_lee> +1
[00:26] <MootBot> +1 received from y_lee. 4 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:26] <starcraftman> +1
[00:26] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:27] <nhandler> Any more votes?
[00:28] <pleia2> +1
[00:28] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:28] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]
[00:28] <MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 6
[00:28] <nhandler> Congrats and welcome to the team yvan300 !
[00:28] <yvan300> nhandler: well met , and thanks everyone :D
[00:28] <Rocket2DMn> welcome yvan300 , good to have you on board
[00:28]  * starcraftman gives yvan300 his own personalized stuffed squirrel with nut gun as present!
[00:28] <y_lee> congrats yvan300
[00:29] <yvan300> thank you Rocket2DMn y_lee and tkanks for the squirrel starcraftman :P
[00:30] <nhandler> yvan300: You have been added to ~ubuntu-beginners on Launchpad. Be sure to subscribe to the mailing list. You will get voice in #ubuntu-beginners once someone with +f shows up. You are also entitled to a VoteBot factoid.
[00:30] <starcraftman> yvan300: your welcome, welcome aboard and have fun.
[00:30] <nhandler> [AGREED] yvan300 to join the Ubuntu Beginners Team
[00:30] <MootBot> AGREED received:  yvan300 to join the Ubuntu Beginners Team
[00:30] <starcraftman> now if only bodhi magically appeared, like when I mention Rocket2DMn....
[00:31] <nhandler> So, anything else to discuss tonight?
[00:31] <yvan300> nhandler: ok, i'm gonna check it out now, but anyway i have to go , may be back later, nite team :P
[00:31] <swoody> bye yvan300 and welcome again :)
[00:31] <nhandler> Good night yvan300, and congratulations!
[00:31]  * Rocket2DMn appears
[00:31] <yvan300> o/
[00:32] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: hehe, ya can't appear if ya didn't dissapear first.... then its not magic!
[00:32] <nhandler> Are there any FGs that have anything to share with the team?
[00:34] <nhandler> Last call for anyone with topics to discuss. Otherwise, we will end this meeting.
[00:35] <Rocket2DMn> i think thats it, thanks for hosting nhandler
[00:35] <swoody> o/
[00:35] <nhandler> Go ahead swoody
[00:35] <swoody> was there something we needed bodhi here for? Are we going to restart the meeting if he does come online?
[00:36] <nhandler> swoody: Rocket2DMn's agenda item needed bodhi. We will not restart the meeting though if he shows up later. We will just defer the item until the next meeting
[00:36] <swoody> ok sounds good :)
[00:37] <starcraftman> LOL!
[00:37] <nhandler> Ah, here is bodhi_zazen now ;)
[00:37] <swoody> haha
[00:37] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Want to do your agenda item?
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> ah, he mad eit
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> sure
[00:37] <nhandler> [TOPIC] Issuing the quiz to Padawans
[00:37] <MootBot> New Topic:  Issuing the quiz to Padawans
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> 'lo all
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> can't stay long =)
[00:38] <Rocket2DMn> I think the general consensus is that BT members want padawans to continue to be given the ritual quiz
[00:39] <Rocket2DMn> if bodhi_zazen wants to share his list of questions with some others authorized to give the quiz, that would take some burden off of him
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> orly ?
[00:39] <nhandler> By "authorized", who did you have in mind Rocket2DMn ?
[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> idk nhandler , whoever bodhi_zazen wants.  It doesn't have to be the council
[00:42] <starcraftman> Well I'd have an opinion if I actually saw the quiz. In general, I've never thought quizes to be that essential though, usually its not hard to tell when people meet set requirements for membership.
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> well, I think the current process of mentoring is best
[00:43] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, it's just sort of a rite of passage :)
[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> I think it would be ideal if members would help the new ones integrate into the team
[00:43] <swoody> +1 bodhi_zazen
[00:43] <Rocket2DMn> agreed bodhi_zazen , but it would still be good to use the quiz to see how much people actually know
[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> if that is happening the quiz is almost unnecessary, as it really does not add much
[00:44] <swoody> I think a mentor would have a much better feel about a new candidate than a quiz could give us
[00:44] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: I'm wiht you on mentoring being more important, as I mentioned in the UA meeting I think it could be improved a bit.
[00:44] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: The quiz rarely ended up testing knowledge. It almost always tested personality. Although, we could change that
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> some members (mentors) have been kind enough to review posts on the forms, review wiki pages, etc
[00:44] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, equally important :)
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> If the mentoring program can not be revised we need to re consider much, the whole membership process, re-writing wiki pages , etc
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> so it is not a small decision
[00:47] <Rocket2DMn> ok, well i didnt mean for this to be a discussion about the whole membership process
[00:47] <Rocket2DMn> I dont think the quiz and Padawan system are mutually exclusive, I think the system works great
[00:48] <Rocket2DMn> I just didnt want the quiz to fall by the wayside, as it's been tradition for as long as I've been around
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> I thought we decided to abandon the quiz
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> If not, it is easy to do
[00:49] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: Well nobody gave to me.
[00:49] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: We dropped it as a requirement for membership
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> I can post the questions if you would like
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> who would like to dish it out ?
[00:49] <nhandler> Should it be another individual? Or a team/FG ?
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> that's pretty much abandoning it nhandler =)
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> nhandler: before we go there we would need to decide to bring the quiz back
[00:51] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, i know, but we're all well aware about your skill level
[00:51] <nhandler> [VOTE] Should we revive the quiz?
[00:51] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Should we revive the quiz?.
[00:51] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:51] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:51] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:51] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:51] <bodhi_zazen> 0
[00:52] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: +0
[00:52] <bodhi_zazen> +0
[00:52] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:52] <nhandler> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:52] <y_lee> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from y_lee. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:52] <starcraftman> +0
[00:52] <MootBot> Abstention received from starcraftman. 3 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:52] <swoody> +1
[00:52] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 4 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:52] <Snova> +0
[00:52] <MootBot> Abstention received from Snova. 4 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:53] <nhandler> Any more votes?
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> No clear direction there, a trend =)
[00:54] <nhandler> [ENDVOTE]
[00:54] <MootBot> Final result is 4 for, 0 against. 3 abstained. Total: 4
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> masters can let me know when people are ready for a little quiz then
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> anyone interested in administering the quiz, let me know
[00:55] <nhandler> Maybe we could discuss this on the mailing list?
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> I would probably like to watch one or two =)
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> mailing list is all but dead =)
[00:55] <bodhi_zazen> almost no one uses it for "discussion"
[00:55] <nhandler> Then send something to it and make it active ;)
[00:55] <starcraftman> hehe
[00:55] <nhandler> The few discussions we have had got pretty good responses
[00:55] <nhandler> People are just hesitant to start them
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> If you like
[00:56] <Snova> I have a few things I would say, but nothing I can say immediately; I shall probably post something later.
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> I am going to have to run
[00:56] <Rocket2DMn> mailing lists dont have to be extremely active to be useful :)
[00:56] <starcraftman> later bodhi_zazen
[00:56] <Rocket2DMn> thanks bodhi_zazen , see you later
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> My only issue is to see they mentoring program revitalized
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> I think that is much more important, really
[00:57] <starcraftman> bodhi_zazen: agreed.
[00:57] <bodhi_zazen> IMO the quiz is secondary
[00:57] <Rocket2DMn> agreed
[00:57] <nhandler> Would someone like to take the action to start some discussion about this topic on the ML ?
[00:57] <Rocket2DMn> is it needed nhandler ?
[00:57] <Rocket2DMn> i can if you want
[00:57] <nhandler> I think we should get some more discussion on this topic
[00:58] <nhandler> Thanks Rocket2DMn
[00:58] <nhandler> [ACTION] Rocket2DMn to start discussion on mailing list about quiz/mentoring program
[00:58] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Rocket2DMn to start discussion on mailing list about quiz/mentoring program
[00:58] <nhandler> Anything else to talk about, or can we end the meeting?
[00:58] <starcraftman> nhandler: I'll add too later, I just remembered an idea I had at UA meeting. Sometime, wanna relax a bit first....
[01:00] <nhandler> Ok, thanks for coming everyone. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, September 8, 2009 at 23:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting
[01:00] <nhandler> [ENDMEETING]
[01:00] <nhandler> #ENDMEETING
[01:00] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 19:00.
[01:00] <starcraftman> thanks for chairing nhandler, appreciated of course :)
</pre>
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
