{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

Next meeting is scheduled for 22/04/2010 22:00 (UTC)

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the focus group, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then can be discussed "informally" on #ubuntu-beginners-dev or the mailing list.  
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[Bodsda]]</nowiki>
| Direction of the team
|-
| <nowiki>[[Bodsda]]</nowiki>
| Current individuals projects
|-
| <nowiki>[[Bodsda]]</nowiki>
| Proposed team projects
|-
| <nowiki>[[Bodsda]]</nowiki>,Pedro3005,ddecator,malev
| Joining Process / Eligibility
|-
| <nowiki>[[Bodsda]]</nowiki>
| Any other business
|}

=== Proposed assimilation ===

This section is for proposal of assimilation for a drone. Prospective drones will be nominated here at the discretion of their Tertiary Adjuncts and voted by members at the next meeting. If you are nominated please try to attend the meeting. If you are unable to attend please notify your Tertiary Adjunct.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#ffd700">Tertiary
| Drone
|}

=== Logs ===

22/04/2010 
<pre>
17:01 <@Bodsda> Welcome to the -dev fg meeting - Agenda can be found here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Meeting
17:02 <@Bodsda> Anything not covered in the general discussion of the agenda items will be covered by any other business as youd expect - so lets start with the direction of the team
17:03 <@Bodsda> This would be were the teams main focus is - and as this is open for discussion, i'll open the floor for suggestions
17:04 < malev> Bodsda, I'm sorry, with direction, you mean: boss or the way that the team should takie?
17:04 < malev> * take
17:04 <@Bodsda> What should the teams main focus be - should it be helping new programmers, should it be integration with th Ubuntu community etc.
17:05 < bgs100> Bodsda, Ohai
17:05 <@Bodsda> hey bgs100
17:05 < malev> helping with ubuntu project?
17:05 < pleia2> malev: a few of us discuss ubuntu/debian packaging here
17:05 < ddecator> well, since it's part of the beginners team, it seems like the focus should be helping beginners who are beginning software development (imo)
17:06 < ddecator> #ubuntu-packaging can be used for packaging conversations
17:06 < malev> for example, PSF has on their bugzilla directory some bugs that they consider: easy, so the beginners can take care of them.
17:06 < pleia2> ddecator: argueably everything the BT does can be done elsewhere
17:06 < malev> ddecator, agree, but the conversations are not for beginners
17:06 < komputes> I like the idea or listing projects we are currently (or would like to) work on
17:07 < ddecator> pleia2: true
17:07 <@Bodsda> One idea, as pleia2 has said, is that some members think we should help new users with packaging. development is not just about programming and many new users wanting to contribute to the project think packaging is something they could do
17:07 < bgs100> pedro3005, "\n" is a string consisting of a newline, '\n' is the character newline.
17:07 < malev> komputes, I think that depend on the direction of the team
17:07 < malev> Bodsda, pleia2 I like!
17:08 <@Bodsda> any members care to comment - drubin Raidsong? :)
17:08 <+Raidsong> not really
17:08 < pedro3005> Is the team's purpose ubuntu development or developing in general?
17:08 <+Raidsong> ive been reading though
17:08 < ddecator> well the only thing is, idk if #ubuntu-packaging would be better for that since it was started with the intention of helping people package...
17:09 < pedro3005> bgs100, I see, thanks. Any pragmatical difference to it?
17:09 <@Bodsda> pedro3005: the team does nto focus on ubuntu development
17:10 <@Bodsda> ddecator: everything is duplicated somewhere - but we focus on helping beginners, somethign which other teams do do, but do not focus on
17:10 <+drubin> Bodsda: packaging is IMHO easier to pick up then programming.
17:10 < pedro3005> If you meant "not", then it shouldn't, in my opinion, deal with packaging, at least not as a main focus
17:10 < ddecator> drubin: +1
17:10 <@Bodsda> drubin: agreed
17:10 <+drubin> packaging is about standards and knowing where to put files
17:10 <+drubin> programming is about learning concepts and other complicated things
17:11 <+drubin> I think packaing is a nice way to go.. it is also much easier to explain
17:11 <+drubin> although I know jacka bout packaging
17:11 < bgs100> pedro3005, Yes. There's a big difference between a string and a char, and different types means different uses, functions, etc. '\n' is just the number 10, while "\n" is a number that points somewhere in memeory where there's a 10 and the next address is a 0.
17:11 < ddecator> i think -packaging was made for beginners though because -motu started it due to so many people asking for help. persia knows more about it though, he started it
17:12 <@Bodsda> drubin: we have many members who do though - nhandler for example. I think packaging should definately be something the team should persue
17:12 < bgs100> s/is a/contains a/
17:13 <@Bodsda> drubin: Raidsong - what about involvement with the MOTU - would this benefit from working with them, perhaps as the BT-dev being mentors for MOTU
17:14 <+drubin> well I think bt-dev would be pre-curser to motu
17:14 < malev> That would be nice, be cause, it is hard to ask really stupid question in the motu team.
17:14 <+drubin> and I know I wont be able to mentor for motu currently
17:14 <@Bodsda> So a starting point to familiarise with packaging
17:15 < ddecator> i think that's better than focusing just on basic packaging
17:15 <@Bodsda> malev: I agree
17:15 < ddecator> packaging for a personal PPA is one thing, but preperation for motu is another. i like it =)
17:16 <@Bodsda> What about bug triaging, patching - could this be another aspect we could be a beginners point of contact for?
17:16 < ddecator> i'm a bugsquad mentor..
17:17 <@Bodsda> That would fit in nicely with teaching version control as well
17:17 < ddecator> -bugs is usually helpful for beginners with triage, but idk about patching
17:17 < malev> I'm in the bugsquad, and I joined a few months ago, and it's realtive easy, and the channel gives you a lot of help, there is plenty of documentation
17:18 < malev> I mean, there are no obstacules to start tragging, just read and ... persistence
17:18 < ddecator> right, -bugs gives a lot of focus to beginners, so idk if it's necessary to do that here
17:18 < ddecator> patching would be nice though
17:18 < ddecator> gives experience with lp, reports, and involves basic scripting
17:18 <@Bodsda> ok so we could focus on - 1) Programming help, 2) Packaging help, 3) Bug triaging help, 4) Patching help, 5) Version control
17:18 <@Bodsda> Raidsong: drubin - thoughts? ^^
17:19 < malev> don't know if bug triaging help is needed
17:19 < malev> patching it could be. the reviewers team is overloaded
17:19 < ddecator> i think bug triaging is best left to the bugsquad
17:19 <@Bodsda> malev: something simple to one person, could be anothers nightmare, some people may need assistance, that is why we are here :)
17:19 <+drubin> I would like to learn more about propper packaging
17:19 <+drubin> so I am all for it
17:19 <+Raidsong> Bodsda, im struggling to keep my computer from dying so i was planning on reading the transcript afterwards
17:20 <@Bodsda> Raidsong: no problem buddy
17:20 <@Bodsda> drubin: ok - sounds good
17:20 <@Bodsda> I think that covers the team direction
17:20 <@Bodsda> Next topic is Current individuals projects
17:21 <@Bodsda> We have a wiki page to detail what we are currently working on, whether we can offer mentoring and help with the code etc - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Projects
17:22 < malev> why there are no links to the source code there?
17:22 < malev> don't mean to be rude
17:22 <@Bodsda> I would like for this to be a page where people can see whether there are some real life projects that they can learn from and help with and also to see who to speak to about help with a specific language/toolkit
17:22 <@Bodsda> malev: NOTE: These lists are kept up to date by their respective owners.
17:22 <@Bodsda> malev: because I havent got round to adding mine :)
17:23 < malev> :D
17:23 <@Bodsda> drubin: do you have anything in the works that could go here?
17:23 -!- tenach [~tenach@unaffiliated/tenach] has quit [Quit: Leaving]
17:25 <+drubin> Bodsda: Hope
17:25 <+drubin> Nope
17:26 <@Bodsda> heh - ok well when you do :)
17:26 <+drubin> although hope is possibly appropriate as well
17:26 <@Bodsda> Well, that short topic was more of an informational one then a discussion topic
17:26 <@Bodsda> Next up is projects for the team
17:26 <+drubin> ok it is 12:30 and I need to get some sleep, got an early morning, and long week end of deploying servers and stuff
17:27 <@Bodsda> drubin: ok - fair enough - perhaps we should reschedule to finish off with more attendance?
17:27 < malev> hey, I'm working an another IRC bot (python and twisted)
17:27 < ddecator> Bodsda: can you at least talk about membership?
17:27 <@Bodsda> ddecator: absolutely
17:28 <@Bodsda> = Meeting End =
</pre>
                       
