{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-Meetings-20090505|Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team Meeting 2009-05-05]]</nowiki>
** Mailing List
** Reminder that all team members need to be part of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuforums-beginners|~ubuntuforums-beginners]]</nowiki> and subscribed to the mailing list or they will be devoiced in the IRC channel.
** <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|Team Reporting]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter]]</nowiki>
** Agree to try out <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamReporting|Team Reporting]]</nowiki> and to attempt to get meeting summaries and other important team activities included in the <nowiki>[[UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter]]</nowiki>
** Voting in Meetings
** Decide to continue to use <nowiki>[[VoteBot]]</nowiki> instead of <nowiki>[[ScribesTeam-MootBot|MootBot]]</nowiki> for votes due to ability to restrict voting to team members
** IRC Policies
** Reminder that we are an official channel and that inappropriate behavior should be reported to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuforums-beginners-council|Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team Council]]</nowiki> in ##beginners-council or sent via <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntuforums-beginners-council/+contactuser|email]]</nowiki>.
** Education Focus Grup
** Preparing to present to the <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil]]</nowiki>
** Vote on Focus Group Leaders
** It was decided to hold a separate meeting to discuss the Focus Group Leaders election
** New Members
** <nowiki>[[thewrath|Michael Brown]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team. He has done a great job of interacting with the rest of the team, and was unanimously voted to become a member.
** <nowiki>[[Silver_Fox | Silver Fox]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team. He has been doing an awesome job of helping new users; he is also British.

* <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-Meetings-20090519|Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team Meeting 2009-05-19]]</nowiki>
** It was agreed that <nowiki>[[BodhiZazen]]</nowiki> will appoint the new Focus Group leaders instead of having an election
** The <nowiki>[[Learning|Ubuntu Community Learning Project]]</nowiki> will be presenting to the <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil]]</nowiki> on June 2nd
** The <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-FocusGroups-IRC|IRC Focus Group]]</nowiki> is looking for new interested members to help integrate with the rest of the Ubuntu community
** The <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Beginners/Development|2009 Summer of Documentation]]</nowiki> has started
** At the June 2nd <nowiki>[[CommunityCouncil]]</nowiki> meeting, we will ask about replacing a mention of the <nowiki>[[ContributeToUbuntu#New%20User%20Network|New User Network (NUN)]]</nowiki> with the <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam|Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team]]</nowiki>
** Meeting agendas will be emailed to the Beginners Team mailing list the day before a meeting
** <nowiki>[[TuxPurple]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Forums Beginners Team. He is a penguin, he is purple, and we are glad to welcome him to the team.
** <nowiki>[[http://ufbt.net]]</nowiki> has been registered to be used temporarily until we can use <nowiki>[[http://learn.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
