{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== outcome ===
Apr 13 01:13:17 <cprofitt>	[action] consider alternative names -- gather some options and suggest them on the mailing list with an eye towards voting next meeting

Apr 13 01:22:22 <cprofitt>	[agreed]The UBT Countil in conjunction with the team should develop a potential structure docmuent for prospective members to follow. This document would then be adopted by a vote in a future meeting

== Full Log ==
<pre>
Apr 13 00:59:11 <MrChrisDruif>	Go go go go go go go! :D
Apr 13 00:59:14 <cprofitt>	#startmeeting
Apr 13 00:59:15 <MootBot>	Meeting started at 18:00. The chair is cprofitt.
Apr 13 00:59:15 <MootBot>	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
Apr 13 00:59:20 <cprofitt>	[link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
Apr 13 00:59:21 <MootBot>	LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
Apr 13 00:59:24 <cprofitt>	meeting url
Apr 13 00:59:30 <cprofitt>	for agenda
Apr 13 00:59:37 <cprofitt>	welcome to the UBT team meeting
Apr 13 00:59:47 <cprofitt>	all UBT members who are here please say present
Apr 13 01:00:20 <MrChrisDruif>	gift
Apr 13 01:00:31 <cprofitt>	all UBT members who are here please say present
Apr 13 01:00:45 <tenach>	present.
Apr 13 01:00:45 <MrChrisDruif>	Presen
Apr 13 01:00:47 <MrChrisDruif>	t
Apr 13 01:01:42 <cprofitt>	well... this does not appear to be a good turnout
Apr 13 01:01:53 <MrChrisDruif>	Hmmm, not really no
Apr 13 01:02:06 <tenach>	:
Apr 13 01:02:08 <tenach>	:/
Apr 13 01:02:10 <ddecator>	present
Apr 13 01:02:40 <MrChrisDruif>	Including chair 4 people?
Apr 13 01:02:52 <cprofitt>	yes
Apr 13 01:03:25 <cprofitt>	Lets give another few minutes for folks to show up
Apr 13 01:03:51 <cprofitt>	one more
Apr 13 01:04:07 <charlie-tca>	present
Apr 13 01:04:21 <cprofitt>	two more
Apr 13 01:04:28 <cprofitt>	welcome jledbetter and charlie-tca
Apr 13 01:04:36 *	jledbetter waves. Sorry, work, etc.
Apr 13 01:04:42 <cprofitt>	no problem
Apr 13 01:04:50 <MrChrisDruif>	Alright, no problem jledbetter :)
Apr 13 01:05:09 <cprofitt>	well,... lets get the meeting off the ground
Apr 13 01:05:29 <cprofitt>	I will skep the first proposed topic as none of the new council members appear to be present
</pre>
=== new Documentation FG lead ===
<pre>
Apr 13 01:05:43 <cprofitt>	[TOPIC] new Documentation FG lead
Apr 13 01:05:43 <MootBot>	New Topic:  new Documentation FG lead
Apr 13 01:06:14 <cprofitt>	The council has acted to temporarily fill the vacany in the Documentation Team with UndiFineD
Apr 13 01:06:34 <cprofitt>	He will fill the role of team lead until we hold an election
Apr 13 01:06:50 <cprofitt>	UndiFineD: is eligible to run for the position
Apr 13 01:07:03 <MrChrisDruif>	Who was the previous Doc Lead?
Apr 13 01:07:11 <cprofitt>	zkriesse
Apr 13 01:07:19 <MrChrisDruif>	Alright :)
Apr 13 01:07:29 <ddecator>	sounds good to me
Apr 13 01:07:34 <cprofitt>	the next topic was UndiFineD's topic
Apr 13 01:08:01 <cprofitt>	there was quite an extensive discussion on the mailing list about various parts of it
</pre>
=== Improving the BT ===
<pre>
Apr 13 01:08:08 <cprofitt>	[TOPIC] Improving the BT
Apr 13 01:08:08 <MootBot>	New Topic:  Improving the BT
Apr 13 01:08:21 *	ddecator wonders if he's not on the ML for some reason
Apr 13 01:08:58 <cprofitt>	I think that as a team we will have to break each element down (on the mailing list) and then work towards having a poll to move forward with a team vote
Apr 13 01:09:18 <cprofitt>	the issues revolve around some negative conotations concerning the words padawan and master
Apr 13 01:09:23 <MrChrisDruif>	Team vote with 6 present?
Apr 13 01:09:37 <cprofitt>	and the relative lack of structure for membership
Apr 13 01:09:43 <cprofitt>	we will not vote here
Apr 13 01:09:49 <cprofitt>	we have not settled on what to vote for
Apr 13 01:09:56 <cprofitt>	I do want to frame the discussion a bit
Apr 13 01:10:13 <cprofitt>	I do not want to remove 'fun' from being on the team -- we are volunteers
Apr 13 01:10:21 <MrChrisDruif>	Agreed
Apr 13 01:10:31 <cprofitt>	I do not like that our current choice of labels apparently causes some offense
Apr 13 01:10:34 <ddecator>	so the idea is to formalize the process more?
Apr 13 01:10:46 <cprofitt>	so I think it would be good to gather some fun alternative names we could use
Apr 13 01:10:59 <cprofitt>	in place of Master / Padawan
Apr 13 01:11:01 <jledbetter>	fun, hehe
Apr 13 01:11:29 <cprofitt>	to be honest the whole concept of master / padawan is really not needed -- to me any member should be capable of guiding another person to be a member
Apr 13 01:11:36 <cprofitt>	it just takes a bit of time and knolwedge
Apr 13 01:12:03 <cprofitt>	but I can appreciate the enjoyment factor of having titles
Apr 13 01:12:10 <MrChrisDruif>	cprofitt: Yes, but not everybody wants to take time to do this. I liked having one fixed person
Apr 13 01:12:16 <cprofitt>	so I would like to ask everyone to research some 'titles' we can use w/o removing the fun
Apr 13 01:12:19 <MrChrisDruif>	I could talk to when I had questions
Apr 13 01:12:34 <cprofitt>	MrChrisDruif: I agree we need a one to one relationship
Apr 13 01:12:35 <DarkwingDuck>	lo
Apr 13 01:12:37 <MrChrisDruif>	I liked the Guide mentioned in the mailing-list
Apr 13 01:12:45 <MrChrisDruif>	Hai DarkwingDuck
Apr 13 01:12:54 <jledbetter>	Ditto on guide. That's not "fun" though but I like it all the same:)
Apr 13 01:13:01 <MrChrisDruif>	However...Student doesn't do it for me
Apr 13 01:13:17 <cprofitt>	[action] consider alternative names -- gather some options and suggest them on the mailing list with an eye towards voting next meeting
Apr 13 01:13:17 <ddecator>	Guide and Apprentice
Apr 13 01:13:17 <MootBot>	ACTION received:  consider alternative names -- gather some options and suggest them on the mailing list with an eye towards voting next meeting
Apr 13 01:13:18 <jledbetter>	cprofitt, Should we mail the list with potential titles? If so, by when?
Apr 13 01:13:21 <MrChrisDruif>	It refers to much to school
Apr 13 01:13:26 <jledbetter>	nm :)
Apr 13 01:13:29 <MrChrisDruif>	ddecator: +1
Apr 13 01:13:34 <charlie-tca>	beginner; noobie
Apr 13 01:13:45 <tenach>	ddecator: I like that.
Apr 13 01:13:52 <cprofitt>	as far as teh suggested timeline and structure...
Apr 13 01:14:01 *	MrChrisDruif suggested it already on the mailing-list ;)
Apr 13 01:14:08 <cprofitt>	I have to say that we are a team of volunteers
Apr 13 01:14:33 <cprofitt>	some of us have families, jobs and other obligations and those should be respected
Apr 13 01:14:41 <cprofitt>	and all levels of participation should be appreciated
Apr 13 01:14:46 <ddecator>	aye
Apr 13 01:14:52 <charlie-tca>	+1
Apr 13 01:15:03 <cprofitt>	that said I do like the idea of developing a simple checklist of the basics
Apr 13 01:15:20 <cprofitt>	but the basics have never really been an issue...
Apr 13 01:15:38 <cprofitt>	it is the contributions / involvement in the community that is difficult to see at times
Apr 13 01:15:45 <MrChrisDruif>	I had a checklist when I was an Apprentice
Apr 13 01:15:55 <ddecator>	mainly because it can happen anywhere and we're not everywhere (individually)
Apr 13 01:15:57 *	cprofitt nods
Apr 13 01:16:04 <cprofitt>	+1 ddecator
Apr 13 01:16:21 <MrChrisDruif>	Support on IRC is difficult to measure
Apr 13 01:16:36 <MrChrisDruif>	Gave me some trouble getting membership :P
Apr 13 01:17:01 <cprofitt>	I do feel that having prospective members have to document their activity -- add examples to their wiki or get testimonials to be a worthwhile exercise
Apr 13 01:17:19 <cprofitt>	as it prepares them if they wish to eventually pursue Ubuntu Memberships
Apr 13 01:17:25 <ddecator>	plus it promotes good wiki hygiene
Apr 13 01:17:31 <cprofitt>	ddecator: +1
Apr 13 01:17:36 <MrChrisDruif>	Indeed
Apr 13 01:18:00 <MrChrisDruif>	But some people love to edit their wiki and others just want to help
Apr 13 01:18:22 <ddecator>	adding examples to your wiki page shouldn't take long
Apr 13 01:18:26 <cprofitt>	I think we can vote on having structure -- and have the council work with the team to create a bit more structure
Apr 13 01:18:29 <MrChrisDruif>	And, again, putting IRC support on wiki is kinda tricky :P
Apr 13 01:18:53 <ddecator>	MrChrisDruif: true, but worst case, many of us log the channel and can grep the logs if we're skeptical
Apr 13 01:18:54 <cprofitt>	I do think that we need to tell people who give IRC support how they could document that...
Apr 13 01:19:17 <cprofitt>	there are areas that are difficult... and if we want them to count we need to give a guide on how to show that activity
Apr 13 01:19:29 <cprofitt>	any other comments on that?
Apr 13 01:19:39 <ddecator>	none so far
Apr 13 01:20:41 <DarkwingDuck>	documenting people you helped in IRC is hard
Apr 13 01:20:54 <cprofitt>	[vote]The UBT Countil in conjunction with the team should develop a potential structure docmuent for prospective members to follow. This document would then be adopted by a vote in a future meeting
Apr 13 01:20:54 <MootBot>	Please vote on: The UBT Countil in conjunction with the team should develop a potential structure docmuent for prospective members to follow. This document would then be adopted by a vote in a future meeting.
Apr 13 01:20:54 <MootBot>	Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
Apr 13 01:20:54 <MootBot>	E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
Apr 13 01:20:57 <DarkwingDuck>	documenting issues you helped with is simplier
Apr 13 01:20:58 <cprofitt>	+1
Apr 13 01:20:58 <MootBot>	+1 received from cprofitt. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
Apr 13 01:21:13 <charlie-tca>	+1
Apr 13 01:21:13 <MootBot>	+1 received from charlie-tca. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
Apr 13 01:21:15 <MrChrisDruif>	+1
Apr 13 01:21:15 <MootBot>	+1 received from MrChrisDruif. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
Apr 13 01:21:17 <ddecator>	+1
Apr 13 01:21:17 <MootBot>	+1 received from ddecator. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
Apr 13 01:21:19 <DarkwingDuck>	+1
Apr 13 01:21:20 <MootBot>	+1 received from DarkwingDuck. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
Apr 13 01:21:29 <jledbetter>	+1
Apr 13 01:21:30 <MootBot>	+1 received from jledbetter. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
Apr 13 01:21:35 <cprofitt>	any more votes?
Apr 13 01:21:47 <cprofitt>	last call for votes
Apr 13 01:21:49 <MrChrisDruif>	Note: correct spelling of course ;)
Apr 13 01:21:55 <cprofitt>	[endvote]
Apr 13 01:21:55 <MootBot>	Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 6
Apr 13 01:22:00 <jledbetter>	hehe MrChrisDruif
Apr 13 01:22:22 <cprofitt>	[agreed]The UBT Countil in conjunction with the team should develop a potential structure docmuent for prospective members to follow. This document would then be adopted by a vote in a future meeting
Apr 13 01:22:22 <MootBot>	AGREED received: The UBT Countil in conjunction with the team should develop a potential structure docmuent for prospective members to follow. This document would then be adopted by a vote in a future meeting
Apr 13 01:22:56 <cprofitt>	any other topics?
Apr 13 01:23:32 <ddecator>	have a happy natty release everyone :)
Apr 13 01:23:48 <DarkwingDuck>	hehe
Apr 13 01:23:54 <cprofitt>	I do want to point out, as it has been an issue for some, that the vote we just took authorized the council to do some work. The council does not make decisions unless the team authorized it
Apr 13 01:24:19 <cprofitt>	alright since we have no more topics... I would like to go back to an original topic since DarkwingDuck is here
</pre>
=== New council members - plans ===
<pre>
Apr 13 01:24:29 <cprofitt>	[topic] New council members - plans
Apr 13 01:24:30 <MootBot>	New Topic: New council members - plans
Apr 13 01:24:40 <cprofitt>	DarkwingDuck: please tell us some of your plans for the UBT
Apr 13 01:24:46 <cprofitt>	or things you would like to see
Apr 13 01:25:31 <DarkwingDuck>	well, ever since the Natty UDS i have wanted to see better interaction with the "main" devel teams in Ubuntu
Apr 13 01:25:40 <MrChrisDruif>	The document (which will me made with help from the team) will only be adopted with a vote. It was properly defined the vote :)
Apr 13 01:25:47 <DarkwingDuck>	either in docs, motu and others
Apr 13 01:26:24 <ddecator>	i wonder if our collaboration with the bugsquad can act as a guinea pig for this
Apr 13 01:26:44 *	DarkwingDuck nods
Apr 13 01:27:05 <DarkwingDuck>	im also in fairly deep with the guys who write the system docs
Apr 13 01:27:22 <DarkwingDuck>	not just kin kubuntu but all the docs
Apr 13 01:27:29 <ddecator>	that'd be a good thing for beginners to get involved with
Apr 13 01:28:11 <DarkwingDuck>	as a member of the documentation committers i would be more then happy to review and approve patches or docs
Apr 13 01:28:20 <MrChrisDruif>	system docs? As in man pages with programs?
Apr 13 01:28:45 <DarkwingDuck>	but, the intergration and maybe becoming a "training ground" is something i can see us doing
Apr 13 01:29:01 *	ddecator nods
Apr 13 01:29:03 <cprofitt>	DarkwingDuck: sounds like we need to get the Doc Committer team lead to approve you as a Mentor for documentation FG
Apr 13 01:29:14 <DarkwingDuck>	MrChrisDruif: and the help files that ship with the system
Apr 13 01:30:12 <DarkwingDuck>	cprofitt: im game now that the doc freeze for natty is in effect
Apr 13 01:31:17 <DarkwingDuck>	but, my plans are to take what ive learned in other teams and seeing how we can train people to move beyond the BT scope
Apr 13 01:31:35 <MrChrisDruif>	Good plan DarkwingDuck
Apr 13 01:31:49 <ddecator>	+1
Apr 13 01:31:52 <DarkwingDuck>	and maybe even have new people who goto bug squad or motu teams get sent to us for training
Apr 13 01:32:02 *	MrChrisDruif is distracted by #lubuntu channel
Apr 13 01:32:31 <DarkwingDuck>	there is an untapped potential for training here and we are in the perfect position
Apr 13 01:32:44 <DarkwingDuck>	to fill a small void
Apr 13 01:33:57 <DarkwingDuck>	the BT helped me get ready for teams with deadlines and i think i can help pass that on
Apr 13 01:35:07 <DarkwingDuck>	small dreams. :) back to you cprofitt
Apr 13 01:35:13 <cprofitt>	thanks DarkwingDuck
Apr 13 01:35:30 <MrChrisDruif>	The whole of Ubuntu is deadline based
Apr 13 01:35:34 <cprofitt>	alright... I would like to thank everyone who attended the meeting tonight
Apr 13 01:35:37 <DarkwingDuck>	aye
Apr 13 01:35:45 <cprofitt>	Have a great night everyone
Apr 13 01:35:50 <cprofitt>	[endmeeting]
Apr 13 01:35:52 <MrChrisDruif>	Thanks cprofitt :)
Apr 13 01:36:00 <cprofitt>	#endmeeting
Apr 13 01:36:01 <MootBot>	Meeting finished at 18:36.
Apr 13 01:36:07 <jledbetter>	cprofitt, Thank you :)
Apr 13 01:40:23 <DarkwingDuck>	?
</pre>

----
CategoryLog
