{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-projects/+spec/ubuntutheproject-n-beginners-team-community-onboarding|Beginners Team Onboarding UDS-N]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': cprofitt and duanedesign
* '''Contributors''': ubuntu beginners team council
* '''Packages affected''': NA

=== Summary ===
The beginners team needs to solidify the process of becoming a member as well as defining what a member is versus what a mentor is.

=== Release Note ===
TODO

=== Rationale ===
Creating a clear process for becoming a member as well as defining what a member's role is will help the ubt scale as it grows.

=== User stories ===
Jayne wants to help other users, but they are not sure how to go about it. They have a good grasp of how to troubleshoot Ubuntu issues with hardware and software configurations.

=== Assumptions ===
* not all ubt members will be mentors
* ubt members will show a good understanding of general Ubuntu knowledge and troubleshooting
* ubt members will choose a container to initially focus on
* ubt members may choose to focus on focus groups in other containers as well

=== Implementation ===
Currently the ubt requires prospective members to choose an area to focus on, this will now become a container to focus on with a possible future focus on one or more focus groups. The membership process will follow the flow listed below:

# prospective member
## introduce yourself to the team and indicate your interest in helping Ubuntu users
## apply for a membership vote
### link to examples of your answering work  in the area you intend to focus on (contribute, support, advocacy)
### have references given if your answers are not online accessible
## approved or re-apply after building more history
# member wishing to join a focus group
## contact the FG lead and express an interest in that area
## work with the FG lead to work on a plan of action to gain the necessary knowledge

==== Migration ====
* all current prospects will have to be given a set of dates when the new process will be put in place
* email to entire ubt team will need to be sent so they know the new process
* ubt wiki pages edited to detail the new process

=== Unresolved issues ===
TODO

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
TODO

----
CategorySpec
