{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

----
== IRC ==

This page exists to introduce new users to IRC and outline a solid set of guidelines for behavior in our channels.  Please remember that <code>#ubuntu-beginners-team</code> and <code>#ubuntu-beginners</code> are official Ubuntu channels.
* <code>#ubuntu-beginners-team</code> - this is our team channel and used for team business as well as off-topic conversations. This is a good place to get to know team members and familiarize yourself with team processes.
* <code>#ubuntu-beginners</code> - this is our official help channel. Our team augments the support given in <code>#ubuntu</code> by providing assistance here. Conversations here should be limited to helping others. Please remember to always render assistance only when you know an answer. It is better to say you do not know than give an answer that could cause more issues for the person requesting help.

=== IRC Help For Beginners ===
If you are new to Ubuntu you may not have ever used IRC (Internet Relay Chat). Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is a form of real-time Internet chat. It is mainly designed for group (many-to-many) communication in discussion forums called channels, but also allows one-to-one communication via private message.  On IRC you can talk to many other members using Ubuntu, on topics ranging from idle chit-chat to support with your Ubuntu and other Applications.

The easiest way to get connected to IRC is using the <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners-team|web based portal]]</nowiki>. You will not need any additional software, just a browser.

After you start using IRC for awhile you may want to upgrade to an IRC Client. These applications will provide you with a lot more features.
Here is a list of a few of the more popular clients. This is by no means an exhaustive list.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|xchat]]</nowiki> - one of the most popular irc clients
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Pidgin|pidgin]]</nowiki> - a popular irc client
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Quassel|quassel]]</nowiki> - a popular irc client for Kubuntu

The links below will help you learn more about IRC and give you some more options for IRC clients to use. More about <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|IRC]]</nowiki>.

Their are many networks in the IRC world. Ubuntu and many of the open source projects use freenode. On the freenode site you can find lots of good information to help guide you through your IRC experience. <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/using_the_network.shtml | freenode - Using The Network]]</nowiki>

=== Everyday Policies ===
* The <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct| Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> applies at all times.
* Keep your existing IRC nick - don't fiddle around with your name or imitate others.
* No bots ever! (except VoteBot and ChanServ)
* OUr channel #ubuntu-beginners-team is not a major support area for Ubuntu and software problems. Support should be directed to <code>#ubuntu</code> or <code>#ubuntu-beginners</code>
* #ubuntu-beginners-team is meant for team business and discussion/questions about community involvement.
* Keep in mind that although the channel is relaxed, the primary focus should be team issues - be mature and stay on topic

/* == IRC Meeting Policies == */
/* Admins, please put VoteBot into Meeting Mode during team meetings. */

/* The following are geared toward limiting misc. chatter in the channel during a meeting, and keeping the team focused, on topic, and progressing with the discussion at hand.  These points apply in addition to the Everyday Policies. */
/* * Please don't say "hello" or "goodbye" to those coming and going. */
/* * Don't put out random smiley faces. */
/* * Think through what you are going to say before you say it - keep your ideas together, not spread out over multiple lines.  This makes it much easier to follow your line of thought. */
/* * "Raise your hand" with a <code>o/</code> when you want to speak, and you will be called upon by the team member leading the discussion.*/

== Reporting Problems or Concerns ==
If you have any issues with users on any of the Beginners Team channels please contact Unit193 and/or bodhi.

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
