{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rocket2DMn]]</nowiki>
| Summer of Documentation, 2009
|}

=== Log ===
<Rocket2DMn> OK guys, BT Wiki Focus Group meeting time, being held here, since we are really part of the doc team

<Rocket2DMn> Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki

<Rocket2DMn> I'm gonna keep this really short

<Rocket2DMn> Now that Jaunty has been released and schedules are starting to open up, we will start the Summer of Documentation

<Rocket2DMn> Last year we focused specifically on the wiki, but this year we will expand into all documentaiton, including system docs

<Rocket2DMn> you can see last year's notes here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki/SoD2008

<Rocket2DMn> For the wiki, we will focus on getting docs updated for Jaunty

<Rocket2DMn> we will also work on implementing and using the Tag system

<Rocket2DMn> also see here for the doc team's list of tasks - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Wiki/Tasks

<Rocket2DMn> The doc team recently reorganized their structure, so the open team is now here - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc-contributors

<Rocket2DMn> we dont use DocuMENTORS anymore

<Rocket2DMn> that team there is for anybody contributing to documentation, so if you're not on it, you should join it

<Rocket2DMn> any questions so far?

<Rocket2DMn> nothing?

<Rocket2DMn> has everybody here used the wiki?

<Rocket2DMn> I feel like I'm talking to myself

<ds305> We're listening.

<Rocket2DMn> Ok, anybody who currently isn't should join the doc-team mailing list - https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-doc

<TuxPurple> lagging

<Rocket2DMn> Even just listening in on it will give you a good idea about what is going on the with the doc team, this is esp. useful to those interested in system docs

<Rocket2DMn> btw, the docteam homepage is here - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam

<Rocket2DMn> it is being restructured a little bit right now, but it is mostly complete

<Rocket2DMn> Does anybody have any questions about using the wiki? or how exactly to get involved with the docs?

<ds305> I have a procedural question.

<Rocket2DMn> go for it ds305 

<ds305> I had to upload about 10 graphics for updating a wiki. Each I assume generated a message to somebody.

<ds305> Is there a way to upload multiples?

<Rocket2DMn> afaik, you need to upload them one at a time.  If uploading attachments mails anybody, it is really limited

<Rocket2DMn> I wouldn't worry about it

* ds305 Will not worry.

<Rocket2DMn> However, if you are updating a wiki page, please use the PREVIEW button, not SUBMIT until you are finished with your changes.  that is good wiki etiquitte

<Rocket2DMn> Please, ask any questions that you have, now is the best time

<Rocket2DMn> Ok...

<ds305> Is there an approved method for getting old graphics deleted?

<ds305> Sorry for the lag.

<ds305> Normal users don't have access to the delete function.

<nhandler> Rocket2DMn: Since I'll be eating dinner, I just wanted to let you know that I will be participating in the SOD, mainly with the system documentation

<Rocket2DMn> That is correct ds, you need to talk to somebody on this team - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc-wiki-admins

<ds305> TY

<Rocket2DMn> thanks nhandler 

<Rocket2DMn> Any other questions?

<Rocket2DMn> The docteam did some sessions during Ubuntu's OpenWeek last week, check out Tuesday's events if you want to see the topics and logs - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek

* merriam has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))

<Rocket2DMn> If there are no other questions, we are pretty much done

<ds305> You have 42 minutes remaining....

<Rocket2DMn> You can feel free to contact me at any time that you have questions.  You can also email the docteam mailing list, which I mentioned earlier.

* Taim (n=taim@27.pyvl4.xdsl.nauticom.net) has joined #Ubuntu-Doc

<Rocket2DMn> ds305, i said i was keeping it short :)

<ds305> ;-)

<Rocket2DMn> last call for questions? Going once...

<Rocket2DMn> twice.........

<Rocket2DMn> .......... gone!

<Rocket2DMn> That is all, meeting over, yay!

<ds305> Thanks Rocket.

<TuxPurple> thanks Rocket2DMn :)

<Rocket2DMn> no proble, I'm excited for this summer

<Rocket2DMn> thanks for participating :)
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
