{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings/20090908|Ubuntu Beginners Team Meeting 2009-09-08]]</nowiki>
* Agree to start alternate meeting times
* Decide to work on reviewing new Join Us page during the next month
* Vote to put new Wiki Home Page Template in place
* Discuss changes to the membership process
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings/20090922|Ubuntu Beginners Team Meeting 2009-09-22]]</nowiki>
* Agree to alternate the meeting time each month between 21:00 UTC and 23:00 UTC
* Decide that bodhi.zazen will manage leadership positions
* Discuss how to get some of the people idling in #ubuntu-beginners to join the team
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/pedro3005|Pedro Mendes]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has been doing a terrific job helping other users, and we are glad to welcome him to the team.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mathay|Andy Mathay]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has helped out on the forums and on IRC, and is an active member of the Ohio LoCo team.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PabloRubianes|Pablo Rubianes]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has contributed to the wiki and written several How-To guides. We are glad to have him on the team.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Buuntu|Gabriel Abud]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He is active on the forums and on IRC, and has recently started getting involved with the Ohio LoCo team.
