{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings/20091104|Ubuntu Beginners Team Meeting 2009-11-04]]</nowiki>
* Decide to open up Team Report to Focus Groups as a way to keep the rest of the team and the entire Ubuntu community informed about their activities.
* Agree that members should be required to join the mailing list and that padawans will be strongly encouraged to join the list.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man|Starcraftman]]</nowiki> is now the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki|Wiki FG]]</nowiki> lead
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign|duanedesign]]</nowiki> is now the lead for the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-launchpad|Launchpad FG]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/stlsaint|stlsaint]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He has been studying servers and virtualization. He frequently gives support in -help, does wiki work, and Launchpad answers. 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/sblunix|sblunix]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. He is really involved in the Ubuntu community forums. He is also a member of the Wiki FG.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/mrsangeld|Ms_Angel_D]]</nowiki> joined the Ubuntu Beginners Team. She actively helps people with their installs. She maintains a blog, contributes to the wiki and the forums. She is also founder of the <nowiki>[[http://myubuntu.ning.com/ | Ubuntu Network]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-launchpad|Launchpad Focus Group]]</nowiki>
* Created a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-launchpad-projects | Launchpad Focus Group 'parent' Project]]</nowiki>. This project will be used to keep track of all Launchpad FG projects.
