{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



{{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} '''Focus Group''': Education<<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/favicon.ico}} '''Launchpad''': LaunchpadHome:ubuntu-beginners-edu <<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/@@/mail}} '''Email''': <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/Ubuntu-beginners |Ubuntu-beginners]]</nowiki><<BR>>
{{https://launchpad.net/@@/language}} '''IRC''': <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners-team |#ubuntu-beginners-team]]</nowiki><<BR>>

== About Us ==
We are a focus group designed to help people get involved with the Learning Project. The Learning Project is an umbrella for many educational projects. There is Community Teaching if you are interested in giving a class. Ubuntu Learning Materials is a project that writes course material. Also there is an Ubuntu Educators Group. A team for educators and educational support staff that want to produce learning materials that will assist educational institutions to adopt Ubuntu and FOSS applications as part of their technology plan

== Objectives ==
* Increase the materials available to teachers who want to teach about FOSS.
* Provide opportunities for people to learn more about Ubuntu.
== Current Tasks ==
* Organize an IRC tutorial session. Pick a topic you know well and draft an outline for a one hour session. See <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom | the Ubuntu Classroom page ]]</nowiki> for more.
* Write some course materials for the Moodle site.
== Join Us ==
Prospective Members and Full Members of the Ubuntu Beginners Team can join any Focus Group. The only thing we ask is that Prospective Members not add their name to the Launchpad Team associated with that FG until they are full members of the team. We look forward to seeing you :)

== Resources ==
Ubuntu Learning Group
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/

== Meetings ==
