{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making/team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| <nowiki>[[swoody]]</nowiki>
| (08/11 Meeting) <nowiki>[[FoldingAtHome|Folding@Home]]</nowiki> and the #ubuntu-folding channel
|-
| <nowiki>[[nhandler]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners/msg00031.html|Migrate Mailing Lists to lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
|-
| BodhiZazen
| Should we roll the UA team (Unanswered Posts) into the BT - Input from BT members please.
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====
UA Team - ajmoris is awesome, but has not been active recently. I have sent an email, pm, and memo (on IRC). I would like to jump start the UA team and the idea to roll it into the BT has come up.

=== Log ===
{{{#!IRC
[00:01] <bodhi_zazen> #startmeeting
[00:01] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:01. The chair is bodhi_zazen.
[00:01] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:01] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:01] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:01] <bodhi_zazen> First thank you all for coming, and it is awesome to see the team become more active
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> don't forget to welcome new members
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> swoody is not here
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Folding @ Home
[00:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Folding @ Home
[00:02] <Rocket2DMn> we'll postpone that topic, he's on vacation
[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> any comments about folding at home ?
[00:03] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: That is for the 8/11 meeting
[00:03] <Rocket2DMn> I don't even know what it is, I thought he was going to enlighten us
[00:03] <nhandler> It says that in the What field
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> I told swoody we would discuss it, he contacted me in advance
[00:03] <Silver_Fox_> how is it related to ubuntu or the beginners team?
[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> so it is open for discussion today, sorry for the confusion
=== asac__ is now known as asac
[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> I am not sure Silver_Fox_ , some people like the priject =)
[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> any other comments re: folding at home then ?
[00:04] <Rocket2DMn> can somebody please explain what it is?
[00:04] <Silver_Fox_> i am not against the project bodhi_zazen,  i just query what it is required of us to do
[00:04] <starcraftman> Uh, what exactly are we to discuss though? origami? I'm on the folding team, but I don't know what swoody wanted to discuss.
[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> http://folding.stanford.edu/
[00:04] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://folding.stanford.edu/
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> I think swoody wants to increase awareness is all
[00:05] <Rocket2DMn> oh it comes from the farm.  Then no thanks :)
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> any other comments ?
[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Migrate Mailing lilsts - nhandler
[00:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Migrate Mailing lilsts - nhandler
[00:06] <nhandler> [LINK] https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners/msg00031.html
[00:06] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners/msg00031.html
[00:06] <nhandler> That is the email I sent to the list
[00:07] <nhandler> Pretty much, now that we aren't only a forum team, we really should have our list on lists.ubuntu.com, which also offers many more features than lists.launchpad.net
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> I think there is a general consensus to move the list(s) if possible
[00:07] <nhandler> The responses to my email seemed pretty positive
[00:07] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: Do you want to skip to a vote?
[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> any comments b4 we vote ?
[00:08] <Rocket2DMn> I dont see any burning need to move the council list, but it doesnt really matter to me if it makes it easier
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] All in favor of migrating to lists.ubuntu.com ?
[00:08] <MootBot> Please vote on:  All in favor of migrating to lists.ubuntu.com ?.
[00:08] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:08] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:08] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:08] <jgoguen> +1
[00:08] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:08] <w4ett> +1
[00:08] <MootBot> +1 received from w4ett. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:08] <nhandler> +1
[00:08] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:08] <Joeb454> +1
[00:08] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:08] <Silver_Fox_> +0
[00:08] <MootBot> Abstention received from Silver_Fox_. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:08] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:08] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 6 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:08] <duanedesi> +0
[00:08] <MootBot> Abstention received from duanedesi. 6 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> any more votes ?
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:09] <MootBot> Final result is 6 for, 0 against. 2 abstained. Total: 6
[00:09] <dvz-> damnit i was in the wrong channel...typing +1..wooops
[00:09] <drs305> +0
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> [AGREED] Move mailing list
[00:09] <MootBot> AGREED received:  Move mailing list
[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> wee hoo
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> I think the problem in the past nhandler , we were not getting a response form lists.ubuntu.com
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> so we went with LP
[00:10] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: I think I can get the list created on lists.ubuntu.com without too much problem
[00:10] <nhandler> I can also handle migrating most of the subscriptions
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> thank you nhandler
[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] UA team
[00:10] <MootBot> New Topic:  UA team
[00:11]  * nhandler -> Dinner
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> The UA team has been under the guidance of ajmorris who appears to be mia =(
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to keep the UA team going and am looking for new leadership
[00:11] <w4ett> How long has he been gone bodhi_zazen ?
[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> Depending on if we can find aj, it may be temp
[00:12] <nhasian> why do we need two separate teams?
[00:12] <Silver_Fox_> i applied to join the team over 3 months ago and have heard nothing
[00:12] <drs305> bodhi_zazen: Is the UA a FG of BT?
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> Since june 27 th
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> not yet drs
[00:12] <nhasian> Silver_Fox_, it took me 6 months to get into UA team :)
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> drs305:
[00:12] <dvz-> ajmorris has said that he was gonna be away for a while
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> I have a few people I am looking at for leadership
[00:12] <bodhi_zazen> mssever is co lead of UA, although I do not know how active he has been
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> Hellow has also volunteered
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> and there may be another
[00:13] <w4ett> bodhi_zazen: doesn't jacob have admin powers in that team?
[00:13] <Rocket2DMn> Just to be clear, I don't think we are deciding right now if we're going to merge the teams.  I think it wil lbe discussed at a FC meeting this week
[00:13] <Rocket2DMn> Just discussing the matter  to see what people think
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> In discussing this ...
[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> many people have suggested rolling it into the BT as a FG
[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> so, I wanted opinions from the BT membership on that =)
=== lukjad007 is now known as Commander_lukjad
[00:14] <starcraftman> Sounds fine to me, make it an fg with someone in charge that ya know can run it.
[00:14]  * w4ett personally has no problem joining the teams, being a member of both
[00:14] <duanedesi> ya=unanswered posts?
[00:14] <Silver_Fox_> do we have the scenario where we have members in UA but not in BT ?
[00:14] <duanedesi> us
[00:15] <starcraftman> duanedesi: Yup, uanwered posts team.
[00:15] <Rocket2DMn> w4ett, an advantage of merging witht the BT is that the UA team (or Focus Group as it would be known) would likely get more activity
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> yes Silver_Fox_ I believe we do
[00:15] <w4ett> Rocket2DMn: agreed
[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> I think some of the UA team are not so much into irc
[00:15] <duanedesi> thank you Ian trying to do this on mobile :s
[00:15] <Silver_Fox_> from that point of view bodhi_zazen i think we should get them involved with this decision
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> I have discussed it with the UA team members I can find
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> 66 % want to merge to BT
[00:16] <dvz-> is it really necessary to have an fg focused on answering questions that should be getting answered anyway?
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> 33 % want independence
[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> the ones who want independence feel the do more then focus on noobs, I mean beginners =)
[00:16] <nhasian> i'm on both teams and as far as I can tell, they both do the same thing.  answer questions on the forum.
[00:16] <Rocket2DMn> dvz-, I think it's OK, we already have FGs like the Security one
[00:16] <w4ett> dvz-: the focus of UA was to catch the threads not answered otherwise
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> yes dvz- , Unanswered posts are often esoteric
[00:17] <starcraftman> dvz-: Well, there's still a lot of posts I see with 0 replies falling off page sometimes. Plus, UA had a special tracker for watching em no?
[00:17] <w4ett> dvz-: lots of research involved in some of them
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> yes starcraftman
[00:17] <Rocket2DMn> in fact, UA posts are often more complex than our team was originally designed to handle (though many members are capable of answering them of course)
[00:17] <jgoguen> bodhi_zazen: On that point though, "beginners" is somewhat relative. Are they thinking "beginners" as in "new users"?
=== Commander_lukjad is now known as Cmdlukjad007
[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> probably jgoguen
[00:18] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, they have their tracker at http://ua.codechunk.net/
[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> The problem is, without leadership, the UA team is not as active and IMO in danger of falling into extinction
[00:18] <Silver_Fox_> would we have many UA members needing BT membership very quickly?
[00:18] <dvz-> what about having a cron job task that finds all unanswered posts daily or at some time interval and categorizes them in the UA category and have people pay attention to that category of posts?
[00:19] <dvz-> assuming we have the ability to create such a task on the uf server(s).
[00:19] <bodhi_zazen> Another broader question, has anyone had contact with ajmorris ?
[00:19] <jgoguen> bodhi_zazen: Maybe I have the wrong interpretation of "beginner" then, but perhaps put it to them that "beginner" means more "new to $TOPIC" than "new user"?
[00:19] <nhasian> dvz-, i think the UF servers are pretty taxed as it is.  we cant even have threads solved anymore :(
[00:19] <drs305> The UA encompasses the entire forum though, doesn't it. The UA FG would not be dealing with just basic stuff.
[00:20] <Rocket2DMn> I don't see any pressing need to roll them into the BT quickly.  Maybe after discussion at the FC meeting on Thursday, give it a few weeks more to try and get ahold of aj?
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> +1 jgoguen
[00:20] <jgoguen> That may help convince the ones that vote for independence
[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> the UA team feels , and rightlfully so, they answer some quite advanced posts
[00:20] <Rocket2DMn> drs305, yeah, they cover the whole of the forums, but thats ok.  We have FGs that focus on different areas of the forums
[00:20] <dvz-> nhasian: and the difference between having an automated script running it during relative downtime compared to a bunch of people scowering the servers is?
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> we have a downtime?
[00:21] <jgoguen> Well in that case, point out our Security FG, even some seemingly-simple security questions can get quite complicated :)
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> it always seems busy to me
[00:21] <dvz-> i don't know...and Silver_Fox_ the qualifier "relative"
[00:21] <dvz-> :-P
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> Personally I could go either way, if UA stays independent I will probably look in on them for a while at least
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> bodhi_zazen:  what about requesting that they reorganise leadership
[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> That is in process Silver_Fox_
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> we could use people willing to lead the team =)
[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> So far I have 3 candidates
[00:22] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: what about getting it reset, and then give them 2 weeks or 4 weeks to figure out the status and what the plan of action would be and let the UA decide themselves if they feel a merger is warranted?
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> Good idea
[00:23] <Silver_Fox_> +1 dvz-
[00:23] <drs305> And as Rocket2DMn discuss it at the FC
[00:23] <starcraftman> dvz's idea sounds fine to me, give em grace to reorganize and decide for themselves.
[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> I just want the BT to be aware as I said the prevailing opinion has been to merge the teams, in which case UA would become a FG
[00:23]  * Joeb454 makes not to read logs in the morning
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to have a feel for how BOTH teams feel
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> Any more questions ?
[00:24] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: If we were to make the UAP team a BT FG, would all UA team members automatically become BT members?
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> Otherwise I would like to get a vote, just for a feel of the team
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> yes I think so nhandler
[00:24] <bodhi_zazen> out of courtesy =)
[00:24] <nhandler> bodhi_zazen: Could we maybe create a list of who would be gaining BT membership as a result of that?
[00:24] <Rocket2DMn> I would like to see UA members still go through the process, perhaps shortened a bit.  i expect they should all be able to make it
[00:24] <Silver_Fox_> that is something i was querying earlier nhandler
[00:25] <Rocket2DMn> at least those that IRC.  not sure what to do with the rest
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> ok nhandler and Rocket2DMn
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE]Merge UA into BT
[00:25] <MootBot> Please vote on: Merge UA into BT.
[00:25] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:25] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> +0
[00:25] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0
[00:25] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: did you end up quizzing pleia for admittance to bt?
[00:25] <nhasian> +1
[00:25] <MootBot> +1 received from nhasian. 1 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:25] <nhandler> +1
[00:25] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 2 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:25] <duanedesign> +1
[00:25] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 3 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:25] <dvz-> +0
[00:25] <w4ett> +0
[00:25] <MootBot> Abstention received from dvz-. 3 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:25] <starcraftman> +1
[00:25] <MootBot> Abstention received from w4ett. 3 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:25] <MootBot> +1 received from starcraftman. 4 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:25] <bodhi_zazen> no dvz-
[00:25] <drs305> +0
[00:25] <MootBot> Abstention received from drs305. 4 for, 0 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:25] <Silver_Fox_> +0
[00:25] <MootBot> Abstention received from Silver_Fox_. 4 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:26] <dvz-> bodhi_zazen: okay, thanks
[00:26] <Rocket2DMn> +1 if the UA members are willing
[00:26] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 5 for, 0 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> Any other votes ?
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:26] <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 5 abstained. Total: 5
[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> OK, thanks everyone
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> I will keep you updated, but I will say the BT is neutral to favoring a merge
[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> If we go that route we can work out the logistics =)
[00:27] <Silver_Fox_> i think importantly nobody objects
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> OK, Focus groups :
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> leads raise your hand if you have issues ;)
[00:28] <Rocket2DMn> o/
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Focus groups
[00:28] <MootBot> New Topic:  Focus groups
[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> Go Rocket
[00:29] <Rocket2DMn> I just want to thank those of you participating in the Summer of Documentation, you're doing great work.  Anybody else interested in helping out, please talk to me after the meeting.
[00:29] <Rocket2DMn> I'd like to setup a FG meeting soon, the doc team has one this weekend I believe
[00:29] <Rocket2DMn> that is all :)
[00:29] <Silver_Fox_> o/ for an announcement
[00:29] <starcraftman> Yup, sunday, I think we settled on 8 PM UTC for the doc meeting.
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> Wee hoo
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> Thank you wiki team
[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> nice to see some activity there =)
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox_: go =)
[00:30] <Rocket2DMn> we're rockin and rollin' like its the 80s baby
[00:30] <duanedesign> oh snap
[00:30] <Silver_Fox_> i just wanted to say thank you to the irc focus group members.  over the last 5 days the channel has seen a fair amount of activity.  well done to you all
[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> =)
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> Any other FG discussion ?
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> Education team :
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> The UCLP is slowly forming
=== Cmdlukjad007 is now known as Cptlukjad007
[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> IMO we grew too fast in too short a time
[00:32] <Silver_Fox_> UCLP?
[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> we have been working on team structure and I think are close to involving other teams and starting on some actual content
[00:32] <pleia2> Silver_Fox_: ubuntu community learning project
[00:32] <Silver_Fox_> thank you pleia2
[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/
[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> Education FG has broken free =)
[00:32] <dvz-> yay
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> The remining Education FG is focused on team education, as a benefit for team participation
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> I know there are team members who want to learn, those who teach, and I think it is a nice little benefit of team participation
[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> Any other FG ?
[00:33] <dvz-> o/ dev
[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> go dvz- =)
[00:35] <dvz-> we've been discussing the possibility of opening membership for the dev team up to non-BT members...to expand on our base of developers...requiring atm that they sign the CoC in order to have access to our future SVN the paultag is in the diligent process of bringing up together.
[00:36] <dvz-> but those non-BT members wouldn't have any say in the direction of the FG itself, as it would still remain a BT-FG, that is unless they went through the process of joining the BT
[00:36] <nhandler> o/
[00:36] <dvz-> sure nhandler
[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> Sounds good to me dvz-
[00:36] <Rocket2DMn> dvz-, I would support you working with other developers on projects, but I wouldn't give them voice/membership/etc
[00:37] <nhandler> I am fine with that, but please notify the council before adding a non-bt member to the LP team, as that is currently a subteam of ~ubuntu-beginners
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> which is a verbose +1 from Rocket2DMn as well
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> :)
[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> nhandler, do we want them added to the LP team at all?
[00:37] <dvz-> Rocket2DMn: our ideas were involving a tier membership..BT members and non-bt members...and of course, there'd be a segregation in place...but more details to be discussed later as we figure more of this out.
[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> IMO no =)
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> and I would really like to see good relations w/ the MOTU
[00:38] <pleia2> o/
[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> we should support , not re-create the MOTU
[00:38] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: We can work with -dev to figure out a way to handle the LP membership when/if they get a non-bt member wishing to join
[00:38] <Rocket2DMn> sounds good nhandler
[00:38] <dvz-> pleia2, go ahead
[00:38] <pleia2> there is precendent for this, the education team had members added so we could get on the team mailing list
[00:39] <pleia2> before we were BT members
[00:39] <Rocket2DMn> plars, we are switching our mailing list now :)
[00:39] <pleia2> Rocket2DMn: I meant the education subteam list, not the general BT list
[00:39] <dvz-> does switching the BT mailing list also imply the FG mailing list switching as well?
[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> We like to be as flexible as possible pleia2 =)
[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> yes dvz-
[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> dvz-, no
[00:40] <pleia2> dvz-: no, I don't believe so
[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> o rly
[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> One advantage is non-team members can post
[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> I would expect FGs could use whatever list they want
[00:40] <nhandler> Rocket2DMn: We deactivated the FG mailing lists
[00:40] <nhandler> There shouldn't be any
[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> that is true nhandler
[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> LOL Rocket2DMn
[00:40] <nhandler> All FG messages should go to the general team list
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> +1 on that nhandler
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> I think fewer lists is better
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> we only need additional lists if the team list is too active
[00:41] <nhandler> The only two lists we should have are ubuntu-beginners@ and ubuntu-beginners-council@
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> IMO
[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> I think that is all we need
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> and that it would be a strong advantage to allow non-members to post to our ml
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> moderated of course to keep out the spam
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> =)
[00:42] <dvz-> nhandler: if the dev team is going to open up to non-bt members though, then it'd make sense to have a seperate one in that sense - because otherwise they'd have to subscribe or whatever to the general BT list and try to decipher which posts relate to dev and which dont
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> Any other FG news ?
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> Everybody know of the newest FG ?
[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> -ynu ?
[00:42] <nhandler> You announced it last time or the time before
[00:43]  * bodhi_zazen is very proud of the new group and I think I know of a potential candidate in fact :p
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> bodhi_zazen:  tell me who and i'll get in contact :)
[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]NEW MEMBERS !
[00:43] <MootBot> New Topic: NEW MEMBERS !
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> Silver_Fox_: lets see if they come back to the channel
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> Any last minute members who did not make the list ?
[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] starcraftman =)
[00:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  starcraftman =)
[00:45] <Rocket2DMn> psh -1 that bum ;)
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> It is a great pleasure to introduce starcraftman to the team
[00:45] <starcraftman> lol
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> I have known starcraftman from the past , and he took a break for real life
[00:45] <bodhi_zazen> but, heeeees back =)
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> anybody else wishing to add a comment ?
[00:46] <bodhi_zazen> or shall we vote ?
[00:46] <nhandler> starcraftman: Would you like to say a few words?
[00:47] <starcraftman> nhandler: I dunno, not very good at speaches... Not much to say. I mean I been helping beginners long time, and now part of the wiki fg team.
[00:48] <drs305> Here here, great speech, let's vote.
[00:48] <starcraftman> haha
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] starcraftman for membership ?
[00:48] <MootBot> Please vote on:  starcraftman for membership ?.
[00:48] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:48] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:48] <bodhi_zazen> +1
[00:48] <Rocket2DMn> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:48] <drs305> +1
[00:48] <jgoguen> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from drs305. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from jgoguen. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:48] <nhandler> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from nhandler. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:48] <nhasian> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from nhasian. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:48] <w4ett> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from w4ett. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8
[00:48] <dvz-> +1
[00:48] <MootBot> +1 received from dvz-. 9 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 9
[00:49] <dvz-> tho i must say, i may end up using your table layout on your wiki starcraftman :-P
[00:49]  * bodhi_zazen wonders where starcraftman got such a nice table =)
[00:49] <bodhi_zazen> any other votes
[00:49] <starcraftman> dvz-: I stole it from Master zen... :)
[00:49] <starcraftman> lol
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> It is not mine, I got it from vorian, who stole it from someone else , lol
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]
[00:50] <MootBot> Final result is 9 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 9
[00:50] <dvz-> lol
[00:50] <bodhi_zazen> weee hooo !!!!
[00:50] <starcraftman> :)
[00:51] <nhasian> werent we suppose to make starcraftman answer a whole bunch of silly questions first?
[00:51] <nhasian> like how to know which robot is lying and which is telling the truth?
[00:52] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, what is the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow?
[00:52] <w4ett> Rocket2DMn: @5000Meteres AMSL
[00:53] <nhandler> starcraftman: Welcome to the team. You are now a member of ~ubuntu-beginners
[00:53] <bodhi_zazen> And you are entitled to !starcraft
[00:53] <starcraftman> thanks, nice to be onboard.
[00:54] <bodhi_zazen> any other issues ?
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> If there are no other issues ...
[00:56] <Rocket2DMn> let's wrap up
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> FYI I am ging skiing August 8-16 =)
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> #endmeetign
[00:56] <Rocket2DMn> quit bragging :)
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> #endmeetign
[00:56] <dvz-> third time's a charm
[00:56] <bodhi_zazen> #endmeeting
[00:56] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:56.
}}}
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
