{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Summer of Documentation ==
Due to the success of the same effort that took place in 2009 and 2010, the '''2011 Summer of Documentation''' will attempt to be another effort by a handful of Ubuntu Forums <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam]]</nowiki> members to help get the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|Community Docs]]</nowiki> up to date by working with the Ubuntu  <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam]]</nowiki>, particularly the <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Wiki| Wiki Team]]</nowiki>.

=== Major Work ===
==== Quality Control ====
In 2008, the Documentation Team started implementing the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag|Tag]]</nowiki> system on the Community Docs.  Last year we finished the transition from the old Category system to using Tags (with the help of some who did not contribute directly to the Summer of Documentation).  This new system makes it easier for users to track what pages need attention on the wiki, and what type of attention is required.

==== Orphaned Pages ====
The fact that the wiki is open for anybody to work on, pages can easily get isolated from the rest of the existing documentation.  One of the tasks this summer will be to help setup links to and from <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OrphanedPages|Orphaned Pages]]</nowiki>, which are pages that aren't linked to from anywhere else inside the wiki.

=== Contributing to the Project ===
Well if you're here you're probably assuming, "How do I help and contribute to this project?". Well here's how. When you've found a page you wish to edit/fix you'll first need to go and file a bug. Now at that you're probably thinking, "Isn't filing bugs for Ubuntu not the wiki?" Well, yes...but for this it makes it not only easier to track what is being worked on but also by who. So, the page you'll need to visit is here at: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-wiki-sod|Summer of Documentation Bugs]]</nowiki>. So what you'll do is go to that page and then the info you'll need to include in your new bug will be:

* Name of the Page and the Page URL
* Does the page have any sub-pages? If so will you edit those as well?
* The nature of the bug. Is it a simple edit with spelling fixes? Or is a major edit? Or is it a complete overhaul and update.
* You'll need to then mark the bug according to the importance of the fix. High? Low? Not sure? If it's a help page mark it at least moderate.
* And finally, mark the bug accordingly. Is the fix released? Is it In Progress? Or is it an invalid bug? If so mark it appropriately!

=== Wiki Pages ===
Of course, a key component to getting the Community Docs up to date involved actually working on pages that were tagged for Cleanup and/or Expansion.  These are pages that the BT members contributing to the SoD did heavy work on.  It is by no means a complete list of the work done, but highlights some of this year's most visible achievements.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background: #DBBA75;"> Page
| Editor
| Date Finished (Year-Month-Day)
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo | IP Tables]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StrongPasswords | Strong Passwords]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InstallingSecurityTools | Installing Security Tools]]</nowiki>
| cprofitt
| 5/17/2011
|-
| <nowiki>[[Apache2_SSL]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| Rework docs on the lamp stack
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-ApacheMySQLPHP]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-ApacheRailsFCGI]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-forum-server-apache2]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-forum-server-apache2-SSL]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-MYSQL5FromSource]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-MysqlPasswordReset]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-PhpBB2]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[community-PHPEclipse]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[DebuggingApache2]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[DebuggingMySQL]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[EasyGuiApacheSetup]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnConfiguration-ApacheVoodoo]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnConfiguration-IntegratingWithApache]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheOnLinuxFtp]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheOnWin32]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheOnMacOsx]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheOnWin32withDomainAuthentication]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheOnWin32withFastCgi]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheWithModPython]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[HelpOnInstalling-ApacheWithModWSGI]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[LibapachePackages]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[Lighttpd%2BPHP]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportMysqlConnectorJava]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[MIRmysql-5.1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[PHP5FromSource]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[php5universe]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[php-java-bridge]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[PHPMyExport]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[Rapache]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[SecurityTeam-Specifications-Karmic-ApacheAppArmorSpec]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[ServerTeam-KnowledgeBase-FeatureComparison-MySQL]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[UserDirectoryPHP]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[UndiFineD]]</nowiki>
| 
|}

== Closing ==
''A message will be posted here at the conclusion of the project, this fall.''

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
