{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} '''Path''': Support<<BR>>

=== About Us ===

The Support Path of the Ubuntu Beginners Team exists to help new users make the transition to Ubuntu. This transition could be from OS X, Windows, BSD or another flavor of Linux. Beginners Team Members answer questions on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/IRC|irc]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/|askubuntu.com]]</nowiki> or in-person events.

=== Getting Started ===
* Register for an acount on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org | Ubuntu Forums ]]</nowiki>
* Register for an account on <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/|askubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* Give real time support on IRC channel <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners|#ubuntu-beginners-team]]</nowiki>
* Give real time support on IRC channel <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-beginners|#ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Give local help to you LoCo Team. You can find your local team by using the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com|Loco Team Directory]]</nowiki>
* Provide  for a reporting process so  that news, ideas and work done in the project by IRC users will be  communicated to the broader community and appropriately recognized. 

 = Things to consider when giving user support. =
* Help new users in a way that leaves them with a good feeling about the community.
* Always provide accurate answers. If you are not sure do not guess.
* Promote the community resources where users are most likely to find help.

=== Required and Recommended Reading ===
If you are interested in giving support to other users you should familiarize yourself with the following resources:
<<BR>>
<<BR>>
'''Required'''
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com|Official Ubuntu Help Wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|Ubuntu community help wiki]]</nowiki> -- very good information here
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwitchingToUbuntu/FromWindows|Switching from Windows Wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwitchingToUbuntu/FromMacOSX|Switching from OS X]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwitchingToUbuntu/FromLinux|Switching from another Linux Distribution]]</nowiki>
* Read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/IRC|Beginners Team IRC guidelines]]</nowiki>

'''Beneficial'''
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Accessibility|Ubuntu Accessibility Notes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DrivesAndPartitions|Drives Documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Sound|Sounds Documentation]]</nowiki>
* Create an account on <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com|askubuntu.com]]</nowiki> so you can answer questions
* Familiarize yourself with how the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com|Loco Team Directory]]</nowiki> works

=== Joining the Team ===
To join the Beginners Team and begin your journey on working on Ubuntu Documentation see the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Membership | Join Us]]</nowiki> page.

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
