{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Location ==

All meetings are held in '''#ubuntu-beginners-YNU''' on '''irc.freenode.net'''

== General Agenda Items and Proposals ==

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntu-beginners-YNU. The vast majority of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting.
# Meetings are primarily for decision making. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10% (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred, depending on time.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| superbenny
| Re-introductions and intros for new members. from the looks of the logs, it appears that only 3 members were present at the first meeting, and there are 8 current members
|-
| superbenny
| discuss a mission statement or at least some sort of "plan of action" type thing.
|-
| Jgoguen
| Focus Group Direction- Do you know how and where you want to contribute to the team?   Not sure how to get the ball rolling?  This is where to find out!
|-
| Silver Fox
| Experiencing ubuntu related problems,  both technical and non technical?  Tell us about them and we will see what we can do :)
|}

=== Agenda discussion ===

== Previous Meetings and Decisions ==
Here you will find the summaries of past meetings and to which decisions the team has come.

Archives (reverse chronological):

=== 2009 ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Date & Link
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/YNU/Meetings/06-28-2009 | 06-28-2009]]</nowiki>
|}

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
