{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Agenda ==
=== Meeting Agenda ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| starcraft.man
| Topic 1 - We now have an LP Team.
|-
| starcraft.man
| Topic 2 - New Meeting Format.
|-
| starcraft.man
| Topic 3 - Discussion of driver model and application to the Wiki FG.
|-
| starcraft.man
| Topic 4 - Planning for Lucid cycle, Goal Setting. What do we want to focus on?
|-
| starcraft.man
| Topic 5 - Open to member suggestions.
|}

=== Agenda Links and Notes ===
'''New LP Team:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-wiki|Moderated]]</nowiki>, Members of BT team can apply. Paddy's/other collaborators will have to wait for approval on main team.

'''New Meeting Format:''' <nowiki>[[starcraft.man-Sandbox|Meeting Format]]</nowiki>

'''Driver Explanation:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/11/10/creating-a-roadmap-for-more-successful-teams/|Explanation Post]]</nowiki>

'''Driver Examples:''' <nowiki>[[duanedesign-sandbox|Duandesign Sandbox]]</nowiki>

== Agreed ==

'''Topic 1 - We now have an LP Team. '''
* All users should join it, so do so! You apply, I approve.
'''Topic 2 - New Meeting Format. '''
* Try out new meeting style. 
* Edits, single thread/topic discussion on mail list. Investigate doodle flaws. ||
'''Topic 3 - Discussion of driver model and application to the Wiki FG.'''
* Create specific measurably goals for wiki fg team for this cycle.
* Should be team wide, separate for system docs and wiki sections.
* starcraft.man and Hellow assigned as drivers on this.
'''Topic 4 - Planning for Lucid cycle, Goal Setting. What do we want to focus on? '''
* All members should install a VM (VirtualBox suggested) and install Lucid in it, stay up to date.
* Become familiar with Lucid changes and make improvements as needed to wiki pages and system docs.
* See Rocket2DMn if ya need help with system docs or just questions.
'''Topic 5 - Open to member suggestions. '''
* We skipped it.

== Log ==
<pre>
[19:04:18] <starcraftman> Yup, just was watching end of a futurama episode.
[19:04:25] -*- starcraftman smacks gavel down.
[19:04:39] <duanedesign> my finger!
[19:04:52] <starcraftman> duanedesign: tough, shouldn't be in way of my gavel.
[19:04:55] <Rocket2DMn> oh he's on a power trip now...
[19:05:02] <duanedesign> lol
[19:05:28] <starcraftman> Ok so agenda for the wiki FG meeting is here > https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Wiki
[19:06:02] <starcraftman> Some links under agenda relate to relevant topics. And I guess we'll just run through them sequentially now then...
[19:06:15] <starcraftman> Topic 1 - We now have an LP Team. 
[19:06:35] <lukjad007> Okay
[19:07:04] <starcraftman> I know, it's just what everyone wanted. Originally made it for team voting, will be good for tracking membership seeing as all other FGs moving to that for it post last meeting.
[19:07:23] <starcraftman> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-beginners-wiki < Aplly.
[19:08:01] <starcraftman> I guess not really a huge scope for discussion, comments?
[19:08:13] <starcraftman> If not......
[19:08:17] <Rocket2DMn> just a quick question
[19:08:25] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: shoot.
[19:08:29] <Rocket2DMn> Is everybody here a member of ubuntu-doc-contributors? if not, you should be
[19:08:42] <forestpiskie> o/
[19:08:46] <Rocket2DMn> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc-contributors
[19:09:21] <starcraftman> forestpiskie: feel free to join em. :)
[19:09:37] <starcraftman> All other members should be, it's on the home page to do list.
[19:09:54] <drs305> o/
[19:10:05] <starcraftman> drs305: yes?
[19:10:12] <forestpiskie> when I last was sort of in this team - the -doc team made it very hard to have anything to do with them - if I join here again there is no way I would even contemplate talking to them again
[19:10:15] <drs305> forestpiskie first I think
[19:10:23] <starcraftman> drs305: right, hehe.
[19:10:34] <Rocket2DMn> forestpiskie, please explain
[19:11:00] <forestpiskie> not now - later
[19:11:07] <Rocket2DMn> ok
[19:11:21] <starcraftman> forestpiskie: alright. drs305 then.
[19:11:23] <drs305> Can you summarize what having LP FG does?  Or is there a link that covers it?
[19:11:25] <forestpiskie> get on with the meeting - I've not even rejoined yet :)
[19:11:59] <starcraftman> drs305: the lp team? uh.... do lp answers and help on lp. I'm not on there tbh.
[19:12:27] <drs305> ok, I'll stand by. What did I just sign up for?
[19:12:45] <starcraftman> drs305: that was the wiki fg lp team, mostly just for tracking membership.
[19:12:53] <drs305> ok.
[19:13:02] <starcraftman> Maybe some new feature will pop up later and I'll impress all of ya!
[19:13:15] <starcraftman> Next topic.
[19:13:29] <starcraftman> Topic 2 - New Meeting Format. 
[19:13:58] <starcraftman> This came about mostly because I was wanting to get everyone involved and the doodle exposed our lack of common overlap.
[19:14:00] <starcraftman> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man/Sandbox
[19:14:08] <starcraftman> ^ There is proposal for new format for meeting.
[19:14:18] <starcraftman> It's only for Wiki FG atm, I'm hopeful it works.
[19:15:01] <forestpiskie> Rocket2DMn: http://paste.ubuntu.com/354185/
[19:15:03] <starcraftman> Basically a 3 step process as outlined. IRC meeting, mail list discussion, vote (by doodle unless someone has better idea).
[19:15:29] <starcraftman> Rest of info on it available on sandbox page.
[19:16:12] <starcraftman> And now open for comments. I'm hoping works out, not too involved. Sounded good when nigel_NB came up with original idea, he deserves some credit.
[19:16:39] -*- starcraftman waits for people to finish reading I guess.
[19:16:39] <Rocket2DMn> o/
[19:16:46] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: Yup.
[19:16:56] <Rocket2DMn> you said "You can reply to as many topics within your one email (DON'T make a separate one per topic)."
[19:17:07] <drs305> starcraftman: It's not allowing me to register votes for 2 / 3
[19:17:28] <starcraftman> drs305: really? But.... I just voted in 3 things.
[19:17:30] <Rocket2DMn> I think a separate email thread should exist for each subject, it makes it easier to search mail threads for what youre looking for
[19:17:58] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: ok, then I'll make titles like "Wiki FG Meeting - Discussion Topic 1"
[19:17:59] <drs305> I saved after the first vote. Perhaps you have to vote all three at the same time.
[19:18:02] <Rocket2DMn> it is proper mailing list etiquette to keep your topics separated
[19:18:14] <drs305> I don't want to send you a beer, but I'm all for "42"!
[19:18:17] <starcraftman> drs305: ah yes, you can select multiple choices.
[19:18:38] <starcraftman> I forgot to clarify, with doodle, ya can select as many as apply. Ideally 1 per topic.
[19:19:34] <starcraftman> drs305: what? Ya abstained on topic1, you fail!
[19:20:07] <drs305> What can I say. It was going to be 1 of each but apparently I only had one shot at it.
[19:20:21] <starcraftman> ok, any other comments? Any problems with doodle vote? Pretty simple thing.
[19:20:51] <starcraftman> lukjad007:  talsemgeest and duanedesign, feel free to pop thoughts in. :)
[19:21:02] <talsemgeest> starcraftman: All sounds good so far :)
[19:21:17] <duanedesign> having a LP page for your group allows you to track projects. I would consider a Wiki FG parent project to track any projects the group might have.
[19:21:27] <duanedesign> sorry a little out of line
[19:21:53] <duanedesign> this one i created for LP focus group https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-launchpad-projects
[19:22:18] <duanedesign> makes it easy to monitor what is going on. An RSS feed too
[19:22:36] <duanedesign> just an idea if the need arises
[19:23:39] <duanedesign> Launchpad 'teams' and 'projects' are like peanut butter and jelly :)
[19:23:43] <starcraftman> duanedesign: hmmm, I still new at lp, sounds good. I dunno what exactly to put on such, I mean we track and work on lots of pages simultaneously.
[19:23:49] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: thoughts?
[19:24:11] <Rocket2DMn> so you want to handle votes on doodle?
[19:24:17] <duanedesign> starcraftman: if you notice on the LP example right now our projects are just blueprints
[19:24:48] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: I see ya just voted, works well yes?
[19:25:44] <Rocket2DMn> yeah starcraftman , it works ok, unfortunately you can't enforce it being limited to team members
[19:25:50] <Rocket2DMn> doesn't LP have voting?
[19:26:32] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: well no, but I know everyone and we'll distribute link via mailist so just folks signed up will know.
[19:27:09] <starcraftman> lp voting has problem of being limited to full members, and nhandler said it's poor. I took a quick look it's a bit limited imo.
[19:27:18] <Rocket2DMn> well, it's seems like a good system for those who cant attend meetings
[19:27:23] <forestpiskie> if extra votes are ok in a meeting in meeting then I am sure a few on doodle will be a doddle
[19:28:14] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: ok then, so hmmm, I guess I should put it to a quick vote ironically enough old meeting way, to approve trial of new meeting. So....
[19:28:26] <starcraftman> VOTE: Try starcraft.man's new voting/meeting system.
[19:28:34] <Rocket2DMn> i wonder if doodle has openid
[19:28:35] <starcraftman> (with doodle option).
[19:28:51] <lukjad007> starcraftman The doodle looks nice, but it's a bit confusing, and can you change your vote? Also, can someone else vote as another person since I didn't have to log in?
[19:29:20] -*- lukjad007 catches up on lag
[19:29:21] <Rocket2DMn> i logged in, i'm gonna try to vote again
[19:29:37] <starcraftman> lukjad007: no you can't change you vote (don't think ya should need to imo, we don't at IRC meetings change votes).
[19:29:44] <duanedesign> probablly a bit of the honor system, but i dont think that would be a problem
[19:29:55] <Rocket2DMn> hmm, doesnt give me an option to change my votes after i return to the poll
[19:30:07] <drs305> Yeah, that
[19:30:15] <starcraftman> As to authentication, ya, it's not required to login, but would anyone on our internal mail list spoof anyone? ><
[19:30:21] <drs305> is what I found. Won't let you use the same username
[19:30:27] <Rocket2DMn> it lets me edit entries for everybody though...
[19:30:46] <lukjad007> starcraftman I believe this answers your question: http://www.doodle.com/eivegv3ysebrxtrw?adminKey=&participantKey=
[19:30:59] <lukjad007> starcraftman there's another point where stuff gets confusing.
[19:31:23] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: You can? Really? Change my answers, I need to look at administration panel again I guess.
[19:32:10] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, yours is protected, but nobody else's is
[19:32:15] <lukjad007> starcraftman I'm more in favour of Alternative 2, or something along those lines
[19:32:21] <Rocket2DMn> maybe everybody else didnt login to doodle
[19:32:35] -*- drs305 suggests we can experiment with this over time.
[19:32:39] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: hmmm, curious. Normal users shouldn't have that power I don't think.
[19:33:04] <starcraftman> drs305: yup, I sure we can tweak some more.
[19:33:34] <drs305> This is the type of thing we can use -team room for. Playing with this after the meeting or later.
[19:34:24] <lukjad007> starcraftman I have an other idea, but it may not be popular
[19:34:28] <lukjad007> :)
[19:34:44] <starcraftman> lukjad007: shoot, I'm listening.
[19:35:36] <lukjad007> Perhaps running the FG by council. The council basically does what it wants. (Perhaps elections,  but meh.)
[19:36:02] <starcraftman> lukjad007: I don't think we big enough for a council, we only have around 15 members.
[19:36:29] <lukjad007> Yeah, but then perhaps running by "leader"
[19:37:00] <starcraftman> lukjad007: well if ya insist, all bow before your new Overlord!
[19:37:21] <starcraftman> hehe
[19:37:29] -*- lukjad007 fires a plutonium at starcraftman and runs.
[19:37:48] <lukjad007> starcraftman :D
[19:38:02] <starcraftman> Alright, that's enough for this topic methinks, we'll take extra discussion to mail list post. For now we all agreed to try it at least yes?
[19:38:19] <lukjad007> Yeah, this topic is discouraging.
[19:39:08] <starcraftman> lukjad007: discouraging? Really? Oh well, anyway, if there's nothing else....
[19:39:19] <lukjad007> starcraftman Just generally.
[19:39:25] <starcraftman>  Topic 3 - Discussion of driver model and application to the Wiki FG. 
[19:39:40] <lukjad007> afk
[19:39:58] <starcraftman> lukjad007: later
[19:40:05] <duanedesign> i think the FG is a good place to experiment with these things for possible adoption by the BT at large
[19:40:14] <starcraftman> duanedesign: yup.
[19:40:17] <duanedesign> sorry that was topic 2 comment
[19:40:20] <Rocket2DMn> Isn't the BT already doing one?
[19:40:41] <duanedesign> but it works for this one too
[19:41:39] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: yes, but well, see duanedesign's page for examples. I wanted to discuss setting em, or rather how to implement for team.
[19:41:44] <starcraftman> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/duanedesign/sandbox
[19:41:45] <duanedesign> i think all the Focus Groups should try and contribute at least one goal to the Roadmap
[19:42:08] <forestpiskie> easy for the irc fg then duanedesign :)
[19:42:16] <Rocket2DMn> ah i see, we have our own section
[19:42:16] <duanedesign> the wiki and forum focus groups i could see having more
[19:43:02] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: well no, that's same page as main. We could implement our own set though. I guess it depends what we want to do.
[19:43:27] <duanedesign> i dont think the goals need to be outrageous, just a goal to keep us moving forward
[19:43:55] <starcraftman> At it's core I guess we'd have to have some loose quota of what we'd expect to get done. X amount of new pages, y updated ones.
[19:44:00] <duanedesign> and having something measurable contributes to the feeling of accomplishment
[19:44:13] <Rocket2DMn> I'd like to see us integrate our goals with the team as a whole - so that they are aware of what we are working for
[19:44:36] <Rocket2DMn> so, the team has its goals, and our FG (and hopefully others) would be a subset of those, or just have our own subsection
[19:45:00] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: aye, I'm fine with that, we can integrate ours into duanedesign's page. Maybe use headers to separate.
[19:45:23] <Rocket2DMn> +2
[19:45:25] <Rocket2DMn> err +1
[19:46:38] <starcraftman> We could create separate drivers for each section, say system doc people have x goal (driver would be people assigned to it), wiki side has own goals, You have an idea for system docs maybe? The question is what average number of pages to require.
[19:46:44] <talsemgeest> +1 for achievable goals
[19:46:55] <Hellow> +1 on achievable goals, too.
[19:47:41] <Hellow> It would help a lot with overall team activity.
[19:47:46] <starcraftman> maybe a per person goal? Problem is I don't want it turning into a quota filling thing.
[19:48:07] <duanedesign> maybe an average?
[19:48:08] <Rocket2DMn> I like your first remark there, but -1 on per-person goals
[19:48:12] <Rocket2DMn> these are team goals
[19:48:35] <forestpiskie> if you do that then quality will suffer - I know from experience
[19:48:36] <Rocket2DMn> in some cases individuals may need to take specific action, but we function as a team.  Dealing out tasks is different
[19:48:42] <duanedesign> but they need to measurable goals
[19:50:17] <duanedesign> as long as it is clear yes we achieved this, or no we did not
[19:50:21] <forestpiskie> can I just say that the biggest problem we have at the moment is that the whole of UBT does not act as a team - and until we do then all the roadmaps in the world will just serve to get us lost
[19:50:58] <Rocket2DMn> forestpiskie, i think a roadmap for specific FGs is a good idea, to help those of us with similar interests operate better
[19:50:59] <duanedesign> i think the reason for that is because we have no roadmap. No sense of direction
[19:51:11] <starcraftman> forestpiskie: don't ya think this kinda driver might help focus? I think so.
[19:51:14] <talsemgeest> forestpiskie: I agree, it seems all the discussion in the mailing list is about arguing about how to stop arguing
[19:51:22] <Hellow> heh
[19:52:03] <Hellow> The team needs a better defined roadmap. Something the team is going for as a whole.
[19:52:15] <Hellow> Can anyone describe what you currently think our roadmap is?
[19:52:35] <talsemgeest> Hellow: The bt of the wiki fg?
[19:52:38] <duanedesign> i think our broad Mission is to help users of Ubuntu
[19:52:40] <starcraftman> Hellow: yup. to first comment, and no. Nothing more than general help folks where ya can.
[19:52:43] <Hellow> talsemgeest, The team as a whole.
[19:52:59] <forestpiskie> I know what it was
[19:53:04] <talsemgeest> Hellow: To help with those who are new to ubuntu
[19:53:20] <Hellow> That is *very* general.
[19:53:38] <talsemgeest> Hellow: I agree, but it seems to me that even that hasn't been happening lately
[19:54:49] <forestpiskie> none of you will know - but there used to be an awful tv programme here - that is what we sound like most of the time - a bunch of old women muttering
[19:55:03] <Hellow> LOL.
[19:55:07] <duanedesign> i know the inspiration for roadmaps was that a lot of good ideas get brought up at UDS and everybody gets excited about the project. Then everybody would leave UDS and go back home and the project would never get anywhere
[19:55:37] <talsemgeest> I completely agree. And of course, that needs to change
[19:55:49] <Hellow> I don't quite know how to describe this, but I don't think the team is unified enough to get anywhere.
[19:56:04] <forestpiskie> +1 Hellow
[19:56:17] <talsemgeest> Hellow: +1 in the teams current state
[19:56:23] <forestpiskie> by team I assum you mean the UBT
[19:56:27] <Rocket2DMn> I understand the concerns about doing this, I think if we start small and simple, it is something we can do.  If it doesn't work out, we can discard it
[19:56:28] <Hellow> Yes, the UBT.
[19:56:48] <duanedesign> Rocket2DMn: +1
[19:57:16] <forestpiskie> Rocket2DMn: this is the issue - lots of bif ideas and no-one able to drive them, then it fails and we all feel despondent
[19:57:22] <starcraftman> Hellow: ya I think I know what ya mean, I don't know a solution atm. I say we should give it an effort for now and see how it goes. I'll make a subsection on duanedesign's sandobx for us and we can discuss narrowing down team wide goals on mail list as we revise proposal.
[19:57:25] <forestpiskie> *big
[19:57:54] <duanedesign> the only way the team is going to get unified is through organization. Putting tools in place to facilitate us moving towards our goal
[19:58:02] <starcraftman> Then for next meeting we should have something reasonably close to a good driver to vote on.
[19:58:05] <duanedesign> starcraftman: sounds good
[19:58:23] <Hellow> duanedesign, +1
[19:58:32] <starcraftman> or maybe even just once we settle on goals we can have a vote via shiny doodle :).
[19:58:38] <Rocket2DMn> forestpiskie, I can accept that not all efforts succeed, but it doesn't mean we shouldn't try.  Even if only some efforts turn out to be fruitful, then that is value added.
[19:58:49] <Rocket2DMn> If we do this, somebody needs to be the driver for it though
[19:59:05] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: It is the way of things, I agree. Never trying is wishing to fail.
[19:59:52] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: ok, any volunteers? Apart from me..... though I guess I could get out the whip....
[20:00:00] <starcraftman> hehe
[20:00:26] <Hellow> I believe I could do it.
[20:00:36] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, you can bounce some ideas off of me, and I might be able to provide some goals, but I can't volunteer to be the driver
[20:00:39] <forestpiskie> Rocket2DMn: I agree - sometimes I feel veery negative about the whole thing - but that is because I want to see us do more, then we have meetings that descend into chaos and it all goes to pieces
[20:01:01] <forestpiskie> and I really donlt like it at all :(
[20:01:08] <starcraftman> forestpiskie: well it's a new year, think positive thoughts. :)
[20:01:17] <forestpiskie> I try - I do :)
[20:01:19] <starcraftman> duanedesign: you also get a cookie for your correct votes on doodle.
[20:01:22] <Rocket2DMn> forestpiskie, understood, I think we are a small enough group here that we can pull off something straightforward though.  It is definitely more of a challenge for the BT as a whole as our identity seems to be constantly in flux
[20:01:33] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: yes.
[20:01:37] <forestpiskie> stabut I always appear to be the one thinking the other side of the coin :)
[20:01:37] <duanedesign> starcraftman: nice
[20:01:52] <Hellow> Problem: We have no single, unified goal(s). And the lack of organization stems from that issue.
[20:02:29] <duanedesign> Hellow: good one
[20:03:00] <starcraftman> Hellow: indeed, it is hard to manage many divergent opinions though. Leads don't rule with an iron fist, your all volunteers after all.
[20:03:07] <duanedesign> Hellow: that could be the first OBJECTIVE
[20:03:28] <starcraftman> duanedesign: a goal to create more team unity/focused objectives, sounds good.
[20:03:31] <Rocket2DMn> well, if we agree to try a roadmap, we can come up with some objects and discuss them on the mailing list
[20:03:48] <duanedesign> Rocket2DMn: good idea
[20:03:48] <Hellow> A roadmap would help things tremendously.
[20:04:19] <Hellow> But we need one that all - or at least most - of us can agree on and follow.
[20:04:57] <Hellow> Otherwise, the attempt at creating the roadmap will fail and fall to a dim memory, like some of the team's previous projects.
[20:05:04] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: this sounds like a plan, I guess I and hellow can try and be driver on it and managed discussion/revision to duanes page. We'll try and come up with a few ideas for goals, put em on duanes page and then have discussion.
[20:05:25] <starcraftman> Ok? 
[20:05:46] <Rocket2DMn> cool
[20:05:48] <talsemgeest> Sounds brilliant to me :)
[20:05:52] <Hellow> Let's do it.
[20:06:15] <forestpiskie> duanedesign: some time tomorrow can we talk? late here now ...
[20:06:23] <starcraftman> Rgr, then, that's  another topic down.
[20:06:31] <duanedesign> forestpiskie: yep i will be here
[20:06:37] <starcraftman> forestpiskie: mostly done, ya can go rest. gnight.
[20:07:10] <starcraftman> Last topic was just a bit more narrow, I was wondering more specifically re wiki team we should focus on for Lucid Cycle: 
[20:07:33] <-- talsemgeest (n=talsemge@unaffiliated/talsemgeest) has quit (Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
[20:07:47] --> talsemgeest (n=talsemge@unaffiliated/talsemgeest) has joined #ubuntu-beginners-team
[20:07:47] *** Mode #ubuntu-beginners-team +v talsemgeest by ChanServ
[20:07:50] <starcraftman> i.e. as roles, new content creation, updates to out of date, style/content cleanup. We seem to be a bit too dispersed perhaps in that effort.
[20:08:04] <talsemgeest> Sorry bout that, xchat crashed
[20:08:11] <starcraftman> kinda ties in to driver creation.
[20:08:22] <starcraftman> talsemgeest: I can repost my line for ya:
[20:08:34] <starcraftman> Last topic was just a bit more narrow, I was wondering more specifically re wiki team we should focus on for Lucid Cycle: 
[20:08:48] <starcraftman> talsemgeest: came right before i.e. line.
[20:08:50] <forestpiskie> ty starcraftman, night all :)
[20:08:56] <talsemgeest> k
[20:08:57] <starcraftman> forestpiskie: later
[20:08:58] <Rocket2DMn> On this topic, I have a question for everybody
[20:09:00] <talsemgeest> Night forestpiskie :)
[20:09:12] <Rocket2DMn> Who here does NOT at least a VM of the dev version of Ubuntu?
[20:09:12] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: shoot
[20:09:33] <talsemgeest> Rocket2DMn: Me
[20:09:55] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: I got my VMs set up but didn't install lucid yet, know I should. Been a bit busy, what with back to uni cycle.
[20:10:06] -*- starcraftman adds it to todo list.
[20:10:28] <Rocket2DMn> Ok, it's not a big deal, it just helps when updating documentation (esp. near the end of the release cycle)
[20:10:46] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: rgr that, definitely something people should do.
[20:11:01] <talsemgeest> Rocket2DMn: Good point, added to my download list
[20:11:04] <drs305> We'll need to know Lucid, but things like graphics can't really be updated until RC comes out.
[20:11:05] <talsemgeest> Oops, brb
[20:11:55] <Rocket2DMn> drs305, that's not necessarily true (though it is often best not to really get stuff up to date until release time)
[20:11:58] <drs305> But definitely we need to know how Lucid relates to our wiki pages.
[20:12:03] <Rocket2DMn> UserInterfaceFreeze comes before Beta1
[20:12:30] <drs305> But the graphics never seem to be finalized until late in the cycle.
[20:12:50] <drs305> For backgrounds at least.
[20:13:22] <duanedesign> A lot of wiki pages are a matter of going through the guide in the new version and make changes were appropriate. I am sure it varies but a lot can just be updated. No?
[20:13:50] <Rocket2DMn> Yeah, a lot of it is reviewing pages that you "maintain" (and i use that term loosely as this is an open wiki)
[20:14:19] <drs305> I have about 10 wiki/doc pages I feel 'responsible' for. I plan on having all my updates ready for publishing on release day.
[20:14:31] <starcraftman> duanedesign: aye, that seems so. Though sometimes it's easier to just make a new page with some really out dated pages.
[20:15:09] <drs305> Which goes back to Rocket2DMn's point. We should get familiar with Lucid, especiailly since it's a LTS.
[20:16:09] <starcraftman> drs305: aye, so then our main focus we should make for this cycle primarily will be updating of old pages. Sounds good.
[20:16:12] <Rocket2DMn> starcraftman, it is a rare case when that is needed, but it does happen, esp. for key pages that need to be supported for LTS
[20:16:42] <starcraftman> Action to get there, folks install VM + lucid then scan all old pages they maintain (and don't) and update as needed. Yes?
[20:16:53] <Rocket2DMn> One thing that does need to be up-to-date in advance of the release is System Documentation
[20:18:34] <Rocket2DMn> Anybody who wants to help with that, let me know :)  Even just reviewing the existing documentation is a big help
[20:19:05] <starcraftman> Rocket2DMn: that is true. Maybe we should have a day when ya can go through and give more wiki minded folks some exposure what needs doing?
[20:19:25] <Rocket2DMn> sure
[20:19:30] <duanedesign> good idea
[20:19:41] <duanedesign> a doc day
[20:20:06] <starcraftman> duanedesign: I try to make em all good, honest, Canada domination one yet to pan out.
[20:20:38] <starcraftman> duanedesign: well, I dunno bout whole day, but yes, maybe a bit modeled like user days where rocket, I and a few others could cover a few topics of itnerest.
[20:21:12] <starcraftman> It's a thought. Though I think wiki side pretty easy to get into.
[20:22:00] <Rocket2DMn> yeah, wiki is easier to get into if you want to make changes to the documentation yourself
[20:22:24] <Rocket2DMn> however, most of the BT is fairly comfortable using LP which means they can file bug reports against bad/incorrect documentation, which is a great help for system docs
[20:23:53] <duanedesign> definetly
[20:25:47] <starcraftman> K, so I guess that'll be our primary goal, updating docs to lucid and combing over old ones for problems. And be sure to get VM lucid for everyone. That summarize?
[20:26:19] <starcraftman> And anyone with questions on sys-docs can see rocket, since he volunteered :)
[20:26:20] <duanedesign> sounds good
[20:26:41] <Rocket2DMn> sounds good
[20:26:48] <forestpiskie> night then - I am reallyoff this time ...
[20:26:56] <starcraftman> ok then, if that's it, I think we had a good. I'm at the end of agenda, unless someone has another topic?
[20:27:02] <cjohnston> night forestpiskie
[20:27:10] <starcraftman> Also, we went 27 minutes over hehe.
[20:27:17] <starcraftman> evening cjohnston
[20:27:23] <cjohnston> hey starcraftman
[20:27:23] <-- forestpiskie (n=elfy@ubuntu/member/forestpixie) has quit
[20:27:31] -*- cjohnston reciently woke up
[20:27:44] <cjohnston> and its about time to go back to bed
[20:27:47] <starcraftman> anything to add last minute Rocket2DMn and duanedesign?
[20:27:58] <Rocket2DMn> nope
[20:28:16] <starcraftman> ok then.... going going.....
[20:28:22] -*- starcraftman smacks gavel down.
[20:28:26] <starcraftman> Meeting over.
</pre>
