{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Besides voting on new members, there will be no voting at these meetings. The Beginners Team Council will review all discussions and will vote on issues once they are ready to be voted on.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| 
| 
|-
| <nowiki>[[DiegoTurcios]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[DiegoTurcios-DevFG|DevFG]]</nowiki> A new look to the Dev Focus Group
|-
| zkriesse
| Ubuntu Youth announcment
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

=== Log ===
{{{#!IRC
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-meeting
[00:00] <Silver_Fox_> 23:00 UTC
[00:01] <duanedesign> woot
[00:01] <DiegoTc> lets begin
[00:01] <Silver_Fox_> Who is chairing the beginners team meeting today ?
[00:01] <Silver_Fox_> Ping cprofitt , nhandler
[00:01] <smeag0l> i was just about drop out
[00:01] <smeag0l> *to
[00:02] <DiegoTc> pautag is not coming today
[00:02] <Silver_Fox_> No worries smeag0l .  Good to see you about
[00:02] <smeag0l> :)
[00:02] <duanedesign> ok and nhandler will be late
[00:02] <Silver_Fox_> I do not mind chairing it if nobody objects
[00:03] <wojox> no objections here
[00:03] <duanedesign> yep, i dont know
[00:03] <DiegoTc> np
[00:03] <duanedesign> the bot commands
[00:03]  * zkriesse chairs...hehehe
[00:03] <Silver_Fox_> Hmm,  I had them written down ;)
[00:03] <zkriesse> startmeeting with []
[00:04] <duanedesign> thats ok Silver_Fox_  dont worry :)
[00:04] <Silver_Fox_> I have them now duanedesign
[00:05] <Silver_Fox_> Just out of interest,  how many are here for the meeting?
[00:05] <Silver_Fox_> o/
[00:05]  * zkriesse is here
[00:05] <pedro3005> o/
[00:05] <phillw> listening
[00:05]  * kvarley is here
[00:05] <duanedesign> o/
[00:05] <DiegoTc> here
[00:05]  * kermiac waves
[00:05] <wojox> here
[00:05]  * smeag0l is here 
[00:05] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  a fair few ;)
[00:05] <Silver_Fox_> #startmeeting
[00:05] <zkriesse> At least we got enough BT members to vote
[00:05] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:05. The chair is Silver_Fox_.
[00:05] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:05] <duanedesign> \0/
[00:06] <smeag0l> confused
[00:06] <smeag0l> :)
[00:06] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC] Beginners Team Meeting
[00:06] <MootBot> New Topic:  Beginners Team Meeting
[00:06] <Silver_Fox_> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:06] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:07] <smeag0l> if i may i maybe have a security issue ?
[00:07] <Silver_Fox_> [IDEA] DevFG A new look to the Dev Focus Group
[00:07] <MootBot> IDEA received:  DevFG A new look to the Dev Focus Group
[00:07] <Silver_Fox_> DiegoTc,  Its you :)
[00:07] <DiegoTc> yeap
[00:08] <DiegoTc> I was talking with duanedesign about creating a programming academy for the devFG https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DiegoTurcios/DevFG
[00:08] <wojox> That sounds like fun
[00:09] <zkriesse> Guys sorry I didn't add it to the agenda (just got it figured out here today) but I'll have a topic after everyone else is done if that's ok
[00:09] <zkriesse> DiegoTc: Ok, to what goal?
[00:09] <DiegoTc> zkriesse: I wrote them on the wiki
[00:09] <DiegoTc> # Help new users to learn a new programming language # When there is a group with a better knowledge, the dev focus group can work on developing application (Small or Big Projects) that can benefit Ubuntu
[00:10] <DiegoTc> Others (Still Thinking)
[00:10] <pedro3005> zkriesse, what nobler goal if not the publicizing and distribution of knowledge? :)
[00:10] <nhandler> o/
[00:10] <zkriesse> very good response pedro3005
[00:10] <Silver_Fox_> nhandler,  Go
[00:10] <Silver_Fox_> :)
[00:11] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: I just got here, nothing to say right now (still reading scrollback)
[00:11] <DiegoTc> So thats the idea for the dev FG
[00:11] <Silver_Fox_> Ah righto :)  Well we decided to crack on nhandler
[00:11] <duanedesign> o/
[00:11] <Silver_Fox_> Go duanedesign
[00:12] <duanedesign> the council has been discussing lately the 'mission' of each FG and the setting of goals by each group/
[00:12] <duanedesign> I like diegos idea
[00:12] <zkriesse> Ok
[00:13] <duanedesign> i think the teaching of classes is something we could couple with the eduFG
[00:13] <duanedesign> if we could have classses in #ubuntu-classroom
[00:13] <cprofitt> duanedesign: the edu had worked with classroom -- but the focus was on off-line self-paced courses
[00:14] <cprofitt> we had a Moodle server that leveraged wiki docs and forum posts
[00:15] <duanedesign> i think in addition to what DiegoTc said the DevFG should start working towards getting its members to be MOTU's
[00:15]  * DiegoTc there is expectation on the channel :p
[00:15] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  so do we have an item to vote on or not? :)
[00:16] <Silver_Fox_> Was it an announcement DiegoTc ?  Or are you seeking support for it ?
[00:16] <DiegoTc> option b
[00:16] <nhandler> Nothing really to vote on. It is really up to the FG lead
[00:16] <DiegoTc> nhandler: I never get collinp on irc :S
[00:16] <Silver_Fox_> Yes,  I thought it would have been in the FG meeting, not the team meeting
[00:17] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  moving on...
[00:17] <nhandler> DiegoTc: You can use email / MemoServ ;)
[00:17] <Silver_Fox_> Unless anyone has anything to add
[00:17] <collinp> Wow. Forgot meeting was going on.
[00:17] <duanedesign> ha
[00:17] <DiegoTc> thanks I always wonder how i do that
[00:17] <duanedesign> :)
[00:17] <zkriesse> For shame collinp!
[00:17] <DiegoTc> Guys I am leving I had clases righ now :S
[00:18] <Silver_Fox_> [IDEA] Review List Of Prospective Members In Need Of Mentor.
[00:18] <zkriesse> bye DiegoTc
[00:18] <MootBot> IDEA received:  Review List Of Prospective Members In Need Of Mentor.
[00:18] <collinp> And I'm handling an issue somewhere else.
[00:18] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: Why are you using IDEAS instead of TOPICS ?
[00:18] <zkriesse> I'm willing to take on nUboon2Age and or MichealH
[00:19] <Silver_Fox_> Gah,  you are quite correct nhandler ,  lol
[00:19] <Silver_Fox_> We have 5 on the list
[00:19] <Silver_Fox_> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure#Mentoring
[00:19] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Structure#Mentoring
[00:19] <duanedesign> km0r3
[00:19] <km0r3> hey all
[00:19] <duanedesign> needs a dev related mentor
[00:20] <km0r3> yes, that would be great.
[00:20] <duanedesign> he has already shown good commitment to the group
[00:20] <duanedesign> (s)he, I souldnt assume
[00:20] <duanedesign> :)
[00:21] <duanedesign> nUboon2Age is the only other one on the list i have seen around
[00:21] <duanedesign> anyone know anything about the other 3
[00:21] <wojox> What happened to lequont and why is my name gone?
[00:21]  * zkriesse knows of MichealH
[00:21] <Silver_Fox_> Very little duanedesign
[00:21] <duanedesign> oh and wojox
[00:22] <duanedesign> i noticed leoquant was gone today, that was wojoxs mentor
[00:23] <duanedesign> wojox is a good fprum contributor so any forum minded mentor woould be good. is that fair wojox?
[00:23] <duanedesign> forum*
[00:23] <wojox> Sounds good
[00:23] <smeag0l> afk
[00:24] <duanedesign> Also if anyone is on the list of mentors please check and make sure your info is current
[00:24] <Silver_Fox_> Okay, only km0r3 seems to be on the list who is here
[00:24] <zkriesse> Yes
[00:24] <zkriesse> MichealH is in the UK so it's after midnight for him
[00:25] <Silver_Fox_> So..  can somebody take km0r3 ?  A volunteer would be nice :)
[00:25] <Silver_Fox_> It is after midnight in the UK zkriesse .
[00:25] <duanedesign> i can 0\
[00:25] <zkriesse> I've offered to take km0r3 on even though I don't code (yet)
[00:26] <Silver_Fox_> km0r3,  Who would you prefer? duanedesign or zkriesse  )or neither ;)
[00:26]  * nhandler has a mentee
[00:26] <nhandler> Or send another email to the ML
[00:26] <km0r3> I think duanedesign would be great. I feel honored!
[00:26] <Silver_Fox_> Okay great :)
[00:26]  * phillw waves to nhandler
[00:26] <km0r3> zkriesse: I already thanked you for you kindness
[00:26] <km0r3> >/(
[00:26] <km0r3> :-) I mean
[00:27] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED] duanedesign  to mentor km0r3
[00:27] <MootBot> AGREED received:  duanedesign  to mentor km0r3
[00:27] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC] Request Status Update From All Mentors
[00:27] <MootBot> New Topic:  Request Status Update From All Mentors
[00:27]  * zkriesse will update the mentor list if no one has any objections
[00:28] <duanedesign> o/
[00:28] <smeag0l> b
[00:28] <Silver_Fox_> I shall start,  mine is still in contact with me.  He is in the middle of some real life issues at the minute.  Looking to step it up once they are sorted.
[00:28] <Silver_Fox_> go duanedesign
[00:29] <duanedesign> good you could make it to meeting smeag0l
[00:29] <duanedesign> malev is doing great
[00:29] <smeag0l> thank you duanedesign :)
[00:29] <duanedesign> he has been coding on a lot of projects
[00:29] <Silver_Fox_> Oh hey smeag0l ,  thought you had gone to bed :)
[00:29] <duanedesign> nd helping out in -dev
[00:29] <smeag0l> no
[00:30] <smeag0l> ;)
[00:30] <duanedesign> shredder12 is also doing well.
[00:30] <nhandler> My mentee is doing well also. He is doing a great job both in the BT as well as with getting involved in the greater community.
[00:30] <duanedesign> and kermiac hopefully wont be my mentee for much longer, not htat i have not enjoyed it
[00:31] <duanedesign> nhandler: i agree his participation in #ubuntu-beginners is great
[00:31] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:31] <zkriesse> I've nominated mohi for membership although he's not here for some reason
[00:31] <zkriesse> phillw: has done great
[00:31] <zkriesse> Especially with wiki, he's been making excellent progress with that
[00:32]  * nhandler -> dinner
=== bjf is now known as bjf[afk]
[00:32] <Silver_Fox_> Nobody else has an update ?
[00:33] <Silver_Fox_> Guess not. :)
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> Okay  moving on...
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> [TOPIC] kermiac to join the team
[00:34] <MootBot> New Topic:  kermiac to join the team
[00:34] <Silver_Fox_> Please introduce yourself kermiac
[00:35] <Silver_Fox_> Or let duanedesign do it ;)
[00:35] <duanedesign> kermiac: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MitchTowner
[00:35]  * Vantrax is having RMB flashbacks
[00:35] <zkriesse> same here vanhoof
[00:35] <zkriesse> I mean Vantrax
[00:35] <km0r3> \o
[00:35] <duanedesign> kermiac has been with us for almost 3 months now
[00:35]  * zkriesse hates tabfail
[00:36] <duanedesign> he is a bug triaging machine :)
[00:36] <zkriesse> Just so ya'll know, kermiac has been making excellent progress in -wiki as well when he can
[00:36] <duanedesign> nis 5 a day stats are impressive
[00:36] <duanedesign> his*
[00:36] <Silver_Fox_> I had a look at those duanedesign ,  very impressive
[00:36] <duanedesign> and he has also done apport hooks, wiki work, etc
[00:37] <duanedesign> i think he will be a great addition to the team. He is highly motivated, friendly , and ready to help when he can
[00:37] <duanedesign> all the things that make a grat BT member
[00:37] <duanedesign> great*
[00:37] <zkriesse> +1 duanedesign
[00:37] <Silver_Fox_> Great.
[00:37] <kermiac> hi, sorry. I was called away from my desk. Thanks duanedesign
[00:37] <Silver_Fox_> Lets vote
[00:38] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE] kermiac to join the team
[00:38] <MootBot> Please vote on:  kermiac to join the team.
[00:38] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:38] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:38] <duanedesign> +1
[00:38] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:38] <zkriesse> +1
[00:38] <MootBot> +1 received from zkriesse. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:38] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:38] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:38] <Vantrax> +1
[00:38] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:39] <Silver_Fox_> Nobody else? :)
[00:39] <pleia2> +1
[00:39] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:39] <Silver_Fox_> ping cprofitt
[00:40] <Silver_Fox_> Thanks pleia2
[00:40] <cprofitt> Silver_Fox_: ?
[00:40] <cprofitt> 0
[00:40] <zkriesse> cprofitt: cast your vote
[00:40] <cprofitt> +0
[00:40] <MootBot> Abstention received from cprofitt. 5 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:40] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  I think thats everyone who is here
[00:41] <cprofitt> sorry -- other meeting got a bit 'hot'
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:41] <MootBot> Final result is 5 for, 0 against. 1 abstained. Total: 5
[00:41] <zkriesse> Congrats kermiac!!!!
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED] kermiac to join the team.
[00:41] <MootBot> AGREED received:  kermiac to join the team.
[00:41] <smeag0l> congratulation kermiac
[00:41] <cprofitt> congrats!
[00:41] <kermiac> Thanks :)
[00:41] <Silver_Fox_> Well done
[00:41] <km0r3> Congrats kermiac :-)
[00:42] <duanedesign> who can do the ceremonial kick from the channel :)
[00:42] <zkriesse> I will!
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> I do not believe you can zkriesse ,  no ops
[00:43] <duanedesign> i think mohi can be voted in absentia?
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> duanedesign,  I don't think I can voice anyone in the team channels.
[00:43] <zkriesse> Silver_Fox_: I was joking...i've already got him voiced in -wiki
[00:43] <duanedesign> well do it later then :)
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> duanedesign,  A break in tradition?
[00:43] <smeag0l> ;)
[00:44] <smeag0l> hehe
[00:44] <collinp> I can give voice, but I can't set autovoice.
[00:45] <collinp> I'll just do it and leave a note for bodhi to set auto-voice.
[00:45] <duanedesign> thanks collinp
[00:45] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,  I am going to put me head on the block so to speak.. going to proxy mohi
[00:45] <Vantrax> how is that putting your head on the block...
[00:45] <Silver_Fox_> [VOTE]  mohi1 to join the team
[00:45] <MootBot> Please vote on:   mohi1 to join the team.
[00:45] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot
[00:45] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting
[00:45] <zkriesse> he's my paddy
[00:45] <Silver_Fox_> +1
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from Silver_Fox_. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1
[00:45] <zkriesse> +1
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from zkriesse. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2
[00:45] <collinp> +1
[00:45] <Vantrax> +1
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from collinp. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4
[00:45] <pedro3005> +1
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from pedro3005. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5
[00:45] <pleia2> +1
[00:45] <MootBot> +1 received from pleia2. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6
[00:46] <Silver_Fox_> Vantrax,  Normally they have to be around.  I think he had been on the list for maybe 6 months
[00:46] <duanedesign> +1
[00:46] <Silver_Fox_> [ENDVOTE]
[00:46] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7
[00:46] <MootBot> Final result is 7 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 7
[00:46] <zkriesse> cool
[00:47] <collinp> I'll notify bodhi that mohi1 needs +VA as well.
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> [AGREED]  mohi1 to join the team.
[00:47] <MootBot> AGREED received:   mohi1 to join the team.
[00:47] <Vantrax> i think we said they didnt have to be, I know I had 2 paddys added while they were absent
[00:47] <duanedesign> ahhh
[00:48] <duanedesign> thanks Vantrax
[00:48] <zkriesse> Silver_Fox_: I had a topic if i may?
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> Well I had a view to resting (coming up to 1AM)
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> But sure
[00:48] <Silver_Fox_> Go zkriesse
[00:49] <zkriesse> Ok, some of you know I've recently starting leading the Ubuntu Youth group
[00:49] <zkriesse> Just wanted to know if any of you would like to help get this group going and alive again
[00:49] <zkriesse> Especially you younger folks
[00:50] <duanedesign> oh to be young again :)
[00:50] <pleia2> hehe
[00:50] <zkriesse> If any of you wish to help the channel is #ubuntu-youth on freenode and the wiki is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuYouth
[00:50] <zkriesse> That's all Silver_Fox_
[00:50] <Vantrax> I would encourage people to be involved
[00:50] <pleia2> hooray Ubuntu Youth!
[00:50] <zkriesse> haha pleia2
[00:50] <Silver_Fox_> Can we be young at heart?
[00:50] <Silver_Fox_> :)
[00:50] <smeag0l> :)
[00:51] <duanedesign> and on a final note the council will be sending out an email covering the plans to encourage more activity in the team
[00:51] <zkriesse> Yes Silver_Fox_ you may
[00:52] <Silver_Fox_> When can we expect such an email duanedesign ? I shall make a point to open it
[00:52] <duanedesign> we have sent out emails to the broader community
[00:52] <pleia2> instead of just trashing it like other duanedesign emails :O
[00:52] <duanedesign> we are awaiting some feedbac
[00:52] <duanedesign> lol
[00:52] <duanedesign> so this week, early next week at latest
[00:53] <Silver_Fox_> I look forward to reading it duanedesign
[00:53] <zkriesse> +1 Silver_Fox_
[00:53] <duanedesign> i think everyone will like it. We want to really unlock the teams potentil
[00:53] <smeag0l> sorry zkriesse i will have to get my life straightent out first :/
[00:53] <duanedesign> everyone is so talented here on the team
[00:54] <duanedesign> thanks Silver_Fox_ for chairing the meeting
[00:54] <zkriesse> Oh and just so ya'll know there will be a Ubuntu Youth meeting in #ubuntu-youth on Friday at 20:00 UTC and a -wiki meeting in #ubuntu-beginners-wiki on saturday at 21:00 UTC
[00:54] <pleia2> thanks Silver_Fox_!
[00:54] <zkriesse> good job Silver_Fox_
[00:54] <Silver_Fox_> Okay,   thinking about calling it in.  Very early here,  hope the meeting went smooth enough. Wasn't planning to chair so sorry if out of the norm.
[00:54] <Silver_Fox_> #endmeeting
[00:54] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:54.
[00:54] <zkriesse> very nice
[00:54] <Silver_Fox_> Oh,  I still don't like mootbot ;)
[00:55]  * phillw makes the horlicks for us 'oldies' in the UK ;-)
[00:55] <zkriesse> AlanBell is making a new Mootbot-UK
[00:55] <zkriesse> it's called meetingology now
[00:55] <zkriesse> I've got it in -wiki and #ubuntu-youth
[00:55] <Silver_Fox_> zkriesse,  A job for you i have..,,
[00:55] <zkriesse> Silver_Fox_: oh?
[00:55] <Silver_Fox_> zkriesse,  http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ <- Meeting logs. Please if you could sort would be grand
[00:56] <zkriesse> Oh dear
[00:56] <zkriesse> OK sure I'll grab that
[00:56] <zkriesse> Only if you gimme a donut
[00:56] <Silver_Fox_> What sort? The kind with a hole in the middle or the one with a jam centre ?
[00:57] <zkriesse> there's no log of our meeting
[00:57] <smeag0l> this edubuntu takes forever to boot gonna try and se if i can get ubuntu to run on this troublesome Nvidia 6200 or 6600
[00:58] <smeag0l> cyal
[00:58] <Silver_Fox_> BYe smeag0l
[00:58] <smeag0l> thank you Silver_Fox_
}}}
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
