{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting page for meeting of September 14, 2010 at 23:00:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| duanedesign
| Improving Mentor Program
|-
| 
| 
|}

==== Log ====
<pre>
[00:36] <nhandler> #startmeeting
[00:36] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:35. The chair is nhandler.
[00:36] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[00:36]  * pleia2 waves
[00:36] <nhandler> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:36] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings
[00:36] <nhandler> duanedesign: You around?
[00:36]  * Silver_Fox_ waves at pleia2 
[00:37] <Silver_Fox_> Why have we started so late ?
[00:37] <starcraftman> hey there Silver_Fox_  :)
[00:37] <collinp> Silver_Fox_: nhandler forgot.
[00:37] <collinp> I did too.
[00:37] <Silver_Fox_> I came in just to +1 phillw  for membership
[00:37] <starcraftman> I blame the clocks! I say they are all wrong and we just spin them backwards.
[00:37]  * Silver_Fox_ grumbles something about silly o'clock in the morning ;)
[00:38] <nhandler> Alright, does anyone else have any agenda items?
[00:38] <starcraftman> Uh, not really, I just got a new paddy recently. Nothing too important.
[00:39] <collinp> And I'm still trying to find time to revive the development focus group.
[00:39] <starcraftman> Oh and I submit an official request that all other team members playing starcraft2 message me so I can add them.
[00:39] <collinp> Mmh. nhandler, may I say something?
[00:39] <nhandler> Hmm...Looks like we have a lot of prospective members nominated this month
[00:39] <starcraftman> I guess that's not really that official.
[00:39] <nhandler> collinp: Go ahead
[00:40] <collinp> I'll be doing membership for the development team personally, by email. If you send me an email requesting membership, I'll review your credentials and either grant you said membership or assist you in getting the credentials.
[00:40] <collinp> This is going to the mailing list as well.
[00:40] <collinp> But I think it would be prudent to mention it here as well.
[00:41] <collinp> Technical term: Development -focus group-.
[00:41] <nhandler> collinp: Out of curiosity, why not make the LP team moderated and let people apply that way (and set yourself as the admin)
[00:41] <collinp> nhandler: Perhaps. I can't remember if I have admin access to the LP team.
[00:41] <collinp> Let me just check that.
[00:41] <nhandler> collinp: If not, poke me later and I can sort it out
[00:41] <komputes> I would like to announce that I will be switching to Maverick soon and welcome any bugs which affect a majority of uses for my TopBugs wiki page. Should anyone have bugs they would like to see increased in importance, please let me know in a PM or by email.
[00:41] <ibuclaw> o/
[00:42] <komputes> err... affect a majority of users
[00:42] <nhandler> Any other announcements?
[00:42] <Silver_Fox_> I scared of my latest padawan somehow
[00:42] <Silver_Fox_> ;)
[00:42] <collinp> heh.
[00:43] <collinp> Just as a general census, what team members are actually here?
[00:43] <nhandler> o/
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> o/
[00:43] <pleia2> o/
[00:43] <komputes> o/
[00:43] <starcraftman> I can't be sure I actually exist anywhere.
[00:43] <komputes> lol
[00:43] <starcraftman> Strictly metaphically speaking.
[00:43] <Silver_Fox_> Have a cookie and think about it starcraftman
[00:43] <collinp> Ok, so that's pretty good.
[00:44] <zkriesse> Oops
[00:44] <collinp> Add zkriesse to that.
[00:44] <zkriesse> thought we were having it in bt
[00:44] <zkriesse> lol
[00:44] <starcraftman> Silver_Fox_: Excellent suggestion. I love cookies.
[00:44] <nhandler> [TOPIC] New Members
[00:44] <MootBot> New Topic:  New Members
[00:44] <nhandler> phillw: You are up first. Can you say a few words about yourself and your contributions?
[00:45] <Silver_Fox_> It's quarter to 1 here nhandler ,  i expect he has gone to bed
[00:45] <nhandler> Silver_Fox_: He was around a minute ago, so I thought I'd ask
[00:45] <zkriesse> nhandler: can we have a vote anyway on phillw ?
[00:45] <phillw> hi, well, I'm me, my contributions to the begginers team is as per my logs on IRC and the forum area
[00:46] <paultag> Hey, am I late?
[00:46] <collinp> And paultag.
[00:46] <nhandler> paultag: Just in time. phillw is up now
[00:46] <zkriesse> hey ptag
[00:46] <paultag> Hell yes!
[00:46] <phillw> hi mentor, yes your are !!!#
[00:46] <paultag> Sorry all! Sorry!
[00:46] <starcraftman> paultag: not if you program a program to reset all our computers times :).
[00:46] <zkriesse> dont worry paultag I was late too
[00:46] <collinp> Ok, so we have a good number of team members.
[00:47] <phillw> my full contribution details and testimonials are on wiki page
[00:47]  * nhandler -> dinner
[00:47] <zkriesse> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw
[00:47]  * paultag -> chair
[00:47] <paultag> yeah phillw, can you tell us a bit about yourself?
[00:47] <collinp> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw
[00:47] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/phillw
[00:47] <paultag> phillw, its usually tradition to give a blurb
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> paultag:  fail
[00:47] <zkriesse> he just did paultag
[00:47] <Silver_Fox_> phillw did that already
[00:47] <paultag> Oh shucks
[00:48] <paultag> OK, rocken
[00:48] <zkriesse> lol
[00:48] <collinp> I guess I can handle the voting and junk.
[00:48] <paultag> Questions for phil, I open the floor
[00:48] <paultag> phill *
[00:48]  * zkriesse has none
[00:48] <zkriesse> I've worked with Phill long enough..he deserves it
[00:48] <starcraftman> I got a question!
[00:48] <duaneipho> lo all
[00:48] <paultag> starcraftman, go
[00:48] <starcraftman> Does thou play Starcraft 2?
[00:48] <phillw> In a previous job, I was 2nd level support in an UNIX area, coming back what is  ubuntu is a wonderful thing for me and I am a strong propentent of teaching and helping
[00:49] <pleia2> phillw did a great class for -classroom on lamp (I'd love to see more!)
[00:49] <paultag> Awesome
[00:49] <paultag> Well I see no reason to not vote
[00:49] <paultag> [vote] phillw for UBT membership
[00:49] <MootBot> paultag, Only the meeting chair can do that
[00:49] <collinp> [VOTE] phillw for membership
[00:49] <MootBot> collinp, Only the meeting chair can do that
[00:49] <zkriesse> And phillw is also kind enough to lend a hand to the #ubuntu-youth team when he has the time AND he's hosting our forum...so, KUDOS to phillw
[00:49] <collinp> Oh.
[00:49] <collinp> nhandler: Poke.
[00:49] <paultag> collinp, he's gone
[00:49] <collinp> This could be a problem.
[00:49] <paultag> let me hijack
[00:49] <collinp> Ok, lets just do it this way.
[00:49] <paultag> #endmeeting
[00:49] <duaneipho> +1
[00:50] <paultag> Grrr
[00:50] <paultag> OK
[00:50] <paultag> +1
[00:50] <pleia2> +1
[00:50] <collinp> +1 agreed, +0 neutral, -1 Disagree.
[00:50] <zkriesse> +1
[00:50] <collinp> +1
[00:50] <starcraftman> +1 (he better turn out to have a Starcraft account).
[00:50] <collinp> ...ok, bigger issue: How are we going to end the meeting?
[00:50] <paultag> It's OK collinp. We'll let nhandler know
[00:50] <paultag> OK, any more UBT members who care to vote?
[00:51] <paultag> please PM me with votes. I'll be cool about it
[00:51] <paultag> ( if you want them private )
[00:51] <collinp> What's our vote stats?
[00:51] <pedro3005> +1
[00:51] <paultag> +7
[00:51] <komputes> +1
[00:51] <zkriesse> +8 now
[00:51] <collinp> 9 +1's.
[00:51] <paultag> 8(+1), 0(+0), 0(-1)
[00:51] <collinp> [AGREED] phillw for membership
[00:51] <Silver_Fox_> +11
[00:51] <collinp> Ok.
[00:51] <paultag> Congrats phillw :D
[00:52] <Silver_Fox_> Win
[00:52] <collinp> How does this not work.
[00:52] <zkriesse> Welcome to the team (finally) phillw !
[00:52] <collinp> [AGREED]
[00:52] <komputes> phillw: Congrats Phil, welcome to the team :)
[00:52] <zkriesse> [endvote]
[00:52] <phillw> thanks guys, I can only ever promise any team that I will do my best
[00:52] <collinp> And yes, welcome to the team phillw.
[00:52] <zkriesse> #endvote
[00:52] <collinp> zkriesse: We weren't running a bot vote.
[00:52] <paultag> Next up: shredder12
[00:52] <zkriesse> collinp: Ah...
[00:52] <collinp> He's not here.
[00:52] <paultag> He's not here. We're going to skip him
[00:52] <paultag> can someone remind him that he missed a meeting?
[00:53] <zkriesse> I shall
[00:53] <collinp> I'll track him down.
[00:53] <paultag> km0r3 is after him
[00:53] <collinp> Or, zkriesse can,
[00:53] <paultag> also not here
[00:53] <collinp> Also isn't here.
[00:53] <paultag> and malev
[00:53] <collinp> Lather, rinse, repeat.
[00:53] <zkriesse> Lol
[00:53] <paultag> km0r3 is in the channel
[00:53] <paultag> same with malev
[00:53]  * starcraftman wonders if all the absentees are playing starcraft...
[00:53] <komputes> collinp: infinite loop
[00:53] <paultag> I pinged them both. We're almost done with our stuff, so we'll wait for a few
[00:54] <collinp> How long has shredder been on the list?
[00:54] <zkriesse> starcraftman: I'm sure we all love it...just not as much as you
[00:54] <paultag> I'm unsure.
[00:54] <collinp> I think it's been a while.
[00:54] <paultag> duaneipho, how long has shredder been up for membership?
[00:54] <zkriesse> He's been on there a while
[00:54] <collinp> I'll track him down and see what's going on, if you wish.
[00:54] <paultag> collinp, that would be great, thanks
[00:54] <duaneipho> I put them on the agenda las month
[00:55] <zkriesse> you got it collinp ?
[00:55] <paultag> duaneipho, sorry, I meant duanedesign
[00:55] <collinp> Alright, I'll get his email address and send him one.
[00:55] <duaneipho> it's me
[00:55] <paultag> Oh ipho
[00:55] <paultag> dur :)
[00:55] <duaneipho> other co
[00:55] <paultag> Yup
[00:56] <collinp> So, according to the fridge calendar we have 4 minutes left in our allocated space.
[00:56] <paultag> Righto
[00:56] <paultag> We'll give them each their time
[00:56] <zkriesse> We can always move to #ubuntu-beginners
[00:56]  * phillw will catch up with you all on #ubuntu-beginners-team. I've got to go and help my trainee bar man.
[00:56] <collinp> Does it matter if there's no other teams after us?
[00:57] <paultag> Not really, just bad practice to do
[00:57] <paultag> I've gone over before
[00:57] <collinp> hmm.
[00:57] <duaneipho> I wanted to see about getting someone to administrate the mentor program. I believe it was on the agenda.
[00:57] <paultag> We at least need to wait for nhandler to officially close it
[00:58] <collinp> Aye.
[00:58] <paultag> Was this mentioned before?
[00:58] <collinp>  duanedesign - Improving Mentor Program
[00:58] <paultag> OK, cool.
[00:58] <paultag> duaneipho, you have the floor :)
[00:58] <starcraftman> bye phillw, as a recently inducted member it's imperative you get SC2, asap :).
[00:58] <komputes> starcraftman: hey
[00:58] <duaneipho> have someone make sure the seeking mentor list is taken care of each month
[00:59] <collinp> I could do that.
[00:59] <paultag> collinp, you already lead -dev
[00:59] <collinp> paultag: True that.
[00:59] <duaneipho> as well as have mentors provide monthly status reports
[00:59] <collinp> I'm sending an email to the ML regarding -dev, btw.
[00:59] <paultag> I'd like someone new, if you don't mind
[00:59] <paultag> collinp, great
[00:59] <collinp> Hmm.
[00:59] <collinp> Maybe phillw?
[01:00] <Silver_Fox_> I think I need another person to mentor again....
[01:00]  * zkriesse raises hand
[01:00] <paultag> collinp, phillw is crunched for time and such
[01:00] <Silver_Fox_> ;)
[01:00] <collinp> Ah, yes.
[01:00] <paultag> Let's call for people on the ML
[01:00] <duaneipho> and have the mentor administrator be responsible fir making surre those are done each month
[01:00] <Silver_Fox_> +1 ML
[01:00] <paultag> just because we're not packed in here
[01:00] <collinp> Aye, +1 on the ML.
[01:00] <zkriesse> +1 ml
[01:00] <duaneipho> should only take 2 hrs or so a month
[01:01] <duaneipho> we do have a couple people on the seeking mentor list that need someone now
[01:01] <paultag> roger
[01:02] <paultag> Who would like to email calling for applications?
[01:02] <duaneipho> Rajbe. spelled wrong I am sure
[01:02] <zkriesse> I can if you want
[01:02] <paultag> zkriesse, OK. that would be great
[01:02] <duaneipho> I will, or mr zack
[01:02] <collinp> Or me.
[01:02] <paultag> zkriesse, Make a note applications go to the ubuntu beginners council ml
[01:02] <zkriesse> applications for a mentor correct?
[01:02] <paultag> zkriesse, no, mentor administrator, to ensure people get hooked up
[01:02] <zkriesse> Ah
[01:03] <zkriesse> Yeah I can write that up right now
[01:03] <paultag> thanks zkriesse
[01:03] <zkriesse> paultag: what's the council ml
[01:03] <zkriesse> sure
[01:03] <nhandler> zkriesse: ubuntu-beginners-council@lists.ubuntu.com
[01:03] <paultag> nhandler, arn't you eating?
[01:03] <nhandler> zkriesse: Be sure to poke a council member once sent if it gets stuck in moderation
[01:03] <nhandler> paultag: Just got back ;)
[01:03] <duaneipho> ID also like to hear what people think about the monthly updates by mentors
[01:03] <paultag> Roger doger
[01:03] <collinp> nhandler: Wow, fast.
[01:04] <zkriesse> nhandler: what'd you do? Inhale the food?
[01:04] <duaneipho> but were long on time so we can do it in -team
[01:04] <nhandler> :)
[01:04] <collinp> zkriesse: I do that on a regular basis. Not healthy.
[01:04] <zkriesse> collinp: same here
[01:04] <collinp> There's no teams after us wanting to beat us out, so I don't see time as being an issue.
[01:05] <duaneipho> I'll get with my 3 prospects and see If they can make next meeting for voting
[01:05] <collinp> I'm not sure as to how strictly enforced the time limit is on this channel, but it's doubtful that we're going to get kicked out.
[01:05] <zkriesse> I think pleia2 could answer that question best
[01:05] <nhandler> We are fine right now. Nobody is after us
[01:06] <duaneipho> shredder Is in India so he might have difficulty making a meeting
[01:06] <collinp> (yet)
[01:06] <zkriesse> Ok so duaneipho what do you want on the application for mentorship lead?
[01:07] <zkriesse> Or really, BT council members, what do you expect
[01:07] <duaneipho> I would like for them to ideally be responsible for the two things mentioned
[01:07] <zkriesse> Ok
[01:08] <duaneipho> it should only take 2-3 hours a month
[01:08] <zkriesse> But to apply for the "position" what do you want them to put on the email..wiki page of course, but what else? Experience in the team? Why they want/feel they should be in that position?
[01:08] <duaneipho> make sure prospects are hooked up and work with the council on setting up so
[01:09] <duaneipho> some kind of monthly update mentors submit about their prospects
[01:09] <zkriesse> Yes I get that...
[01:09] <duaneipho> Zack sounds good. ideallly it should be so
[01:10] <collinp> Just a question. For future reference, can meeting times be changed an hour or two back or forwards?
[01:10] <nhandler> zkriesse: Yep. LP link as well. And if people feel someone would be a good candidate, please do not hesitate to tell the council that
[01:10] <zkriesse> Ok I'll draft one up real quick
[01:10] <duaneipho> thanks Zack
[01:10] <nhandler> collinp: We probably are overdue for reconsidering meeting times/dates. I'll try to setup a doodle poll soon
[01:10] <zkriesse> nhandler: Roger..shall I draft a quick one and then send it to you for a quic review?
[01:10] <duaneipho> sorry if I mispell your name. no tab co
[01:10] <zkriesse> duaneipho: Not a problem
[01:10] <collinp> nhandler: If shredder is in India, it's unlikely that he will be able to make any of our normal meeting times unless he stays up late or wakes up early, not certain as to which.
[01:10] <duaneipho> mplete
[01:11] <zkriesse> and glad to do it duaneipho
[01:11] <nhandler> collinp: We have accepted members without them attending the meetings in the past
[01:11] <nhandler> zkriesse: If you want (not necessary)
[01:11] <duaneipho> you rock Zack
[01:11] <collinp> What process is that done with?
[01:11] <collinp> Because I would like for him to be aware of this in the email that I am composing to him,
[01:12] <zkriesse> duaneipho: Why thank you good sir
[01:12] <nhandler> collinp: It has been for people who were fairly well known among the team members so that they felt comfortable voting without the person being there
[01:12] <nhandler> We have also done a couple via ML iirc
[01:12] <duaneipho> I will ALS o talk with malev and km0r3 , also my prospects. see what their schedule is for attending next meeting
[01:12] <collinp> Hmm. Do you think that we could do such a vote at this time on him?
[01:13] <nhandler> What does everyone else think? Are you guys all familiar enough with him?
[01:13] <zkriesse> whith shredder12?
[01:13] <collinp> I feel that I am fairly familiar with him.
[01:13] <zkriesse> Yeah I know him ok
[01:13] <duaneipho> not a bad idea but I think we have lost some people
[01:14] <zkriesse> duaneipho: What is this "position" called. "Mentorship Admin" ?
[01:14] <zkriesse> or something to that affect?
[01:14] <starcraftman> I'm still here just quiet. Nothing really to add, unless I maybe volunteer a paddy for this mentorship thing. :)
[01:14] <collinp> paultag, pleia2, kermiac, komputes, Silver_Fox_.
[01:14] <starcraftman> zkriesse: Commander of the Paddy Brigade.
[01:14] <duaneipho> yeah sounds good unless anyone has a better name
[01:14] <paultag> sounds good
[01:14] <zkriesse> lol starcraftman
[01:14] <starcraftman> Mines pls!
[01:15] <zkriesse> starcraftman: Hahaha
[01:15] <nhandler> The title realistically isn't that important. The work that they do is what matters
[01:15] <duaneipho> Starcraft haha
[01:15] <zkriesse> Ok Mentorship Admin it is
[01:15] <collinp> ibuclaw.
[01:15] <starcraftman> nhandler: Oh come on!!!! It's all bout the title, why do ya think higher ya go in company longer it gets...
[01:15] <nigelb> o/ emeritus member
[01:15] <collinp> Ooh, nigelb!
[01:15]  * komputes needs a pyMentor
[01:16] <duaneipho> Nigel OG in the house
[01:16] <Silver_Fox_> I will be back later. It is very early. Goodbye.
[01:16] <collinp> To the highlighted people, what do you think about holding a vote on shredder without him actually being here?
[01:16] <zkriesse> collinp: +1 on it from me
[01:16] <paultag> hey nigelb
[01:16] <kermiac> sorry, I haven't really had much to do with shredder
[01:16] <collinp> I have his wiki page.
[01:17] <nhandler> Do we have anyone else +1 on holding a vote right now?
[01:17] <collinp> +1 from me.
[01:17] <starcraftman> collinp: Don't think I know him enough, in such a case as this with tzs I'd say ml vote to get his participation + most folks knowing him.
[01:17] <nhandler> collinp: It was your idea ;)
[01:17] <collinp> nhandler: Heh.
[01:17] <maco> nhandler: you're voting on voting?
[01:18] <duaneipho> +1
[01:18] <starcraftman> maco: we are meta. :)
[01:18] <collinp> Two +1s.
[01:18] <nhandler> maco: I guess we are ;)
[01:18] <paultag> +0
[01:18] <collinp> So, I think it would be better if we went with starcraftman's suggestion of a ML vote.
[01:18]  * zkriesse will be right back
[01:18] <zkriesse> +1 ML
[01:18] <nhandler> collinp: Agreed. Want to send an email?
[01:18] <collinp> There's not really enough people here to do a full team vote.
[01:19] <collinp> nhandler: Sure.
[01:19] <duaneipho> Collin sounds good
[01:19] <nhandler> [ACTION] collinp to email ML to vote on shredder
[01:19] <MootBot> ACTION received:  collinp to email ML to vote on shredder
[01:19] <duaneipho> ok so we are done ?
[01:19] <nhandler> Anything else to discuss?
[01:19] <collinp> I think that's it.
[01:20] <starcraftman> Nothing from me, ran out of starcraft things :).
[01:21] <paultag> I'm good
[01:21] <nhandler> Then last order of business is to decide who is doing the minutes/team report
[01:21]  * paultag has to run :(
[01:22] <nhandler> Any volunteers? I've ended up having to do the team report at the last minute the last few times, and I would prefer not to be the one to do it again
[01:22] <paultag> I nominate collinp
[01:22] <collinp> I'll get it done.
[01:22] <nhandler> You rock collinp
[01:22] <nhandler> Let me know if you have any problems/questions
[01:22] <collinp> Haven't been as active as I should be in the team, so this is my repentance :).
[01:22] <nhandler> [ACTION] collinp to do minutes/team report
[01:22] <MootBot> ACTION received:  collinp to do minutes/team report
[01:23] <duaneipho> I can help on those things when I get home
[01:23] <nhandler> Great meeting everyone
[01:23] <nhandler> Thanks duaneipho
[01:23] <duaneipho> also update wiki with next meeting date
[01:23] <collinp> Aye, good meeting.
[01:23] <nhandler> +1 duaneipho
[01:23] <nhandler> #endmeeting
[01:23] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 19:23.
</pre>

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
