{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by benonsoftware at 00:00:51 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-11-00.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings   (benonsoftware, 00:01:10)
* Team Reports - benonsoftware
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/TeamReports   (benonsoftware, 00:05:52)
''ACTION:'' benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis  (benonsoftware, 00:13:19)

Meeting ended at 00:22:18 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis

=== Action items, by person ===

* ashickur-noor
* * benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis
* benonsoftware
* * benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis

=== People present (lines said) ===

* benonsoftware (34)
* cprofitt (14)
* MrChrisDruif (11)
* ashickur-noor (9)
* bodhi_zazen (5)
* pleia2 (5)
* meetingology (4)
* Silverlion (2)

=== Full Log ===

 00:00:51 <benonsoftware> #startmeeting

 00:00:51 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jan 11 00:00:51 2012 UTC.  The chair is benonsoftware. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 00:00:51 <meetingology> 

 00:00:51 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 00:01:10 <benonsoftware> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

 00:01:25 <MrChrisDruif> o/

 00:01:30 <benonsoftware> Raise your hands with o/ if your here :P

 00:01:47 <Silverlion> o/

 00:01:48 <cprofitt> 0/

 00:02:02 <MrChrisDruif> \o

 00:02:10 <MrChrisDruif> o7

 00:02:34 <benonsoftware> Anyone else around?

 00:02:36 <MrChrisDruif> Unit193; ?

 00:04:09 <MrChrisDruif> 3 members/active people  isn't a very good way to meet

 00:04:14 <benonsoftware> Yeah

 00:04:19 <cprofitt> All meetings are good...

 00:04:29 <cprofitt> if you don't hold meetings... then more people can not join

 00:04:42 <benonsoftware> stlsaint has the first topic and he isn't in here

 00:04:45 <cprofitt> lets keep ourselves focused on the positive and move this forward

 00:04:46 <MrChrisDruif> Alright, let's get this meeting started.

 00:05:03 <MrChrisDruif> I've got a date with my bed and I'm late

 00:05:07 <benonsoftware> Shall we move to the 2nd topic

 00:05:10 <cprofitt> lets go to the next topic and then see if stl shows up

 00:05:26 <benonsoftware> [TOPIC] Team Reports - benonsoftware

 00:05:28 * Silverlion too ^^

 00:05:44 * pleia2 waves

 00:05:52 <benonsoftware> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/TeamReports

 00:06:08 <benonsoftware> The Team Reports havn't been updated for a while now

 00:06:27 <MrChrisDruif> Ghehe...8 march ^_^

 00:06:30 <benonsoftware> Should we have them or not at all?

 00:06:47 <pleia2> the link to the team reports are included in Ubuntu Weekly News once a month, so people are reading them and it's a really good way to get word out about your project

 00:07:00 <MrChrisDruif> Is still from before the restructuring

 00:07:05 <cprofitt> benonsoftware: I think that having team reports is good...

 00:07:06 <pleia2> additionally it helps team members who have been gone catch up on what's been going on since they were last available, which would have been very useful for this team

 00:07:13 <benonsoftware> I think the same cprofitt

 00:07:19 <cprofitt> but if you are going to do it... you need to ensure it is done regularly

 00:07:28 <benonsoftware> Yes

 00:08:33 <cprofitt> In the NY loco I have struggled to find a person willing to take on that responsibility...

 00:08:33 <benonsoftware> So who is to do them?

 00:08:33 <pleia2> what's worked best for teams I'm on is assigning one person who is responsible for making sure it gets done (they don't need to do it themselves, but nudge team members to update it, perhaps an email to the team once a month to remind people to add their items)

 00:08:58 <cprofitt> and I think it needs to be specifically assigned to a single person (as pleia2 just said). :-)

 00:09:03 <benonsoftware> pleia2: Yes, thats what the Ubuntu-AU team does

 00:09:16 <benonsoftware> We have 2 people doing it in case someone can't do it for a month

 00:10:01 * MrChrisDruif is falling asleep. Sorry guys!

 00:10:13 <ashickur-noor> Hi, is the meeting started?

 00:10:18 <benonsoftware> ashickur-noor: Yes

 00:10:19 <MrChrisDruif> ashickur-noor; yup

 00:10:40 <ashickur-noor> thnx

 00:11:03 <benonsoftware> I'm happy to do it for a few months

 00:11:12 <benonsoftware> and I am happy to train people to do it

 00:11:29 <ashickur-noor> o/

 00:11:50 <cprofitt> is there anyone else present that would be interested in taking on the task of team reports?

 00:12:02 <cprofitt> again -- this is not writing it, but making sure it gets done

 00:12:13 <benonsoftware> If someone would like help with it I can show you what to do

 00:12:25 <ashickur-noor> I can help

 00:12:32 * benonsoftware will do it if no-one puts there hand up

 00:12:35 <ashickur-noor> but I don't know what to do

 00:12:47 <benonsoftware> ashickur-noor: Thats ok, are you free after the meeting?

 00:13:08 <cprofitt> chair /action benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis

 00:13:13 <ashickur-noor> Yap

 00:13:19 <benonsoftware> #action benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis

 00:13:19 * meetingology benonsoftware and ashickur-noor will take on the responsibility of ensuring the team reports get done on a monthly basis

 00:13:29 <ashickur-noor> How long It will take?

 00:13:37 <benonsoftware> Not long

 00:14:18 <benonsoftware> As stlsaint isn't here yet, are there any other reminders/topics anyone wants to add?

 00:14:18 <ashickur-noor> Coz I need to sleep and then goto office

 00:14:47 * bodhi_zazen waves

 00:15:00 <benonsoftware> bodhi_zazen: Do you have any other topics to add?

 00:15:12 <pleia2> reminder that User Days is on Saturday, lots of BT people contributing sessions :) https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays

 00:15:19 * benonsoftware is :P

 00:15:48 <ashickur-noor> how is instruct there from here?

 00:15:48 <bodhi_zazen> no, but I did notice the contributions of the BT over the last few weeks as well as to User Days, thank you

 00:15:55 <cprofitt> pleia2: very full docket -- nice to see

 00:17:05 <benonsoftware> Anyone else who wants to add anything

 00:18:42 <benonsoftware> Sorry

 00:18:59 <benonsoftware> Shall I #endmeeting now?

 00:19:42 <cprofitt> unless bodhi_zazen wants to talk about ops

 00:19:57 <bodhi_zazen> what is wrong with ops ?

 00:20:15 <benonsoftware> Not sure, the topic was OPs within BT Channels

 00:20:35 <benonsoftware> Shall we defer it until the next meeting?

 00:20:49 <bodhi_zazen> No, unless there is a problem it is a non-issue

 00:21:09 <bodhi_zazen> If someone added it to the agenda and did not show up -> end of issue

 00:21:45 <benonsoftware> I'll end meeting now

 00:22:18 <benonsoftware> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
