{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Log of meeting on 05/19/09 ==

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===

PLEASE COME TO THE MEETINGS PREPARED.

This means:
# If there is an issue for the team, add it to the agenda.
# Agenda items then should be discussed "informally" on #ubuntufourms-beginners. 90 % of the discussion should have taken place before the meeting. The channel should be enjoyable for everyone, but keep in mind the purpose of the channel is to discuss team functions.
# Ideally, meetings then are for decision making, team votes. Read the agenda and discuss your thoughts before the meeting. 10 % (or less) of the discussion should happen during the meeting.
# Agenda items that require more then 5 minutes of discussion may need to be deferred.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#f9723e">Who
| What
|-
| swoody
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#New%20User%20Network|Removing 'New User Network' in favor of UFBT?]]</nowiki>
|-
| PartyBoi2
| Sending Agenda items to mailing list?
|-
| Bodsda
| FG meetings time change from TBA to a real time (e.g can we have some fg meetings please)
|}

==== Agenda discussion ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Sending Agenda items to mailing list:
| 
| When an agenda item is added to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings should a email be sent to the mailing list for further discussion of agenda item?
|}

=== Log ===
<pre>
[00:00] <bodhi_zazen> #startmeeting

[00:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:00. The chair is bodhi_zazen.

[00:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]

[00:00] <bodhi_zazen> :)

[00:01] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

[00:01] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/Meetings

[00:01] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] elections

[00:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  elections

[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> last meeting we discussed elections of the FG leads

[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> is this something the team is interested in ?

[00:02] <paultag> +1

[00:02] <bodhi_zazen> Or shall we allow bodhi_zazen to appoint ?

[00:02] <Ash_R> +1

[00:02] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:02] <lukjad007> I prefer appointments

[00:02] <thewrath> appointments

[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> Should we vote ?

[00:03] <Rocket2DMn> Is there anybody out there who wants to be a lead who currently isn't?  If not, then it's a moot point

[00:03] <MontelEdwards> am i allowed to speak/agree/dissagree?

[00:03] <bodhi_zazen> yes MontelEdwards

[00:03] <MontelEdwards> shweet

[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] Elections ? +1 == elections -1 = appointment by bz

[00:04] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Elections ? +1 == elections -1 = appointment by bz.

[00:04] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:04] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:04] <bodhi_zazen> +0

[00:04] <MootBot> Abstention received from bodhi_zazen. 0 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 0

[00:04] <Rocket2DMn> +0

[00:04] <Snova> -1

[00:04] <MootBot> -1 received from Snova. 0 for, 1 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now -1

[00:04] <MootBot> Abstention received from Rocket2DMn. 0 for, 1 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -1

[00:04] <paultag> -1

[00:04] <MootBot> -1 received from paultag. 0 for, 2 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -2

[00:04] <thewrath> -1

[00:04] <MootBot> -1 received from thewrath. 0 for, 3 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:04] <Ash_R> -1

[00:04] <MootBot> -1 received from Ash_R. 0 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -4

[00:04] <faolan> +1

[00:04] <jamesrfla> -1

[00:04] <MootBot> +1 received from faolan. 1 for, 4 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:04] <MootBot> -1 received from jamesrfla. 1 for, 5 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now -4

[00:04] <PartyBoi2> +0

[00:04] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 2 for, 5 against, 2 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:04] <MootBot> Abstention received from PartyBoi2. 2 for, 5 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now -3

[00:04] <lukjad007> -1

[00:04] <MootBot> -1 received from lukjad007. 2 for, 6 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now -4

[00:04] <ds305> +0

[00:04] <MootBot> Abstention received from ds305. 2 for, 6 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now -4

[00:05] <MontelEdwards> +1

[00:05] <swoody> -1

[00:05] <MootBot> -1 received from swoody. 2 for, 7 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now -5

[00:05] <duanedesign> +1

[00:05] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 3 for, 7 against. 4 have abstained. Count is now -4

[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> Anyone else ?

[00:05] <sdennie> +0

[00:05] <MootBot> Abstention received from sdennie. 3 for, 7 against. 5 have abstained. Count is now -4

[00:05] <PartyBoi2> I thought we were going to be using votebot still for voting?

[00:05] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]

[00:05] <MootBot> Final result is 3 for, 7 against. 5 abstained. Total: -4

[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> Votebot == too slow >:)

[00:06] <PartyBoi2> ok

[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> we voted at last meeting to use Mootbot

[00:06] <bodhi_zazen> OK, well that makes this meeting much shorter then :)

[00:06] <lukjad007> Haha

[00:06] <Ash_R> :)

[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> Lets run the teams :)

[00:07] <Ash_R> sounds good

[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> learning / education ?

[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> Vantrax: poke :)

[00:07] <st33med> lrn2work

[00:07] <Rocket2DMn> Vantrax|Work, good timing - anythin gto say on education fg?

[00:07] <bodhi_zazen> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/

[00:07] <Vantrax|Work> busy busy busy

[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> We are going to present out project to the CC on June 2nd

[00:08] <Vantrax|Work> trip to community council soon, then a big announcment

[00:08] <st33med> bodhi_zazen, nice little packaged management tutorial :D

[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> so if you have the time to support the idea, awesome

[00:08] <Rocket2DMn> Cool, good luck!

[00:08] <st33med> Though, you should update a little more often

[00:08] <st33med> >.>

[00:08] <Vantrax|Work> work checking the link there, at the bottom is a series of links on programs for you all to give your input

[00:08] <bodhi_zazen> link st33med ?

[00:08] <jamesrfla> nice wiki for the education fg

[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> I am working on the server

[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> trying to decide

[00:09] <st33med> bodhi_zazen, eh? I was talking about your work in your education class

[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> apache vs lighttpd ?

[00:09] <faolan> sounds like an interesting project

[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> mysql vs postrad ?

[00:09] <Vantrax|Work> jamesrfla, that wiki isnt for the edu fg, the project is outside the BT, but the education FG is one of the primary contributors

[00:09] <jamesrfla> bodhi_zazen: will you be hosting it at your house?

[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> Oh, thanks st33med :)

[00:09] <bodhi_zazen> no james

[00:10] <Vantrax|Work> its colocated on an isp line

[00:10] <st33med> You said you updated every three months on your server >.>

[00:10] <Rocket2DMn> bodhi_zazen, i bet pleia2 could have some good input for you on that

[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> we have a new domain as well

[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> ufbt.net

[00:10] <jamesrfla> bodhi_zazen: you could if you had Oc.1

[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> OK

[00:10] <MontelEdwards> o/

[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> IRC FG ?

[00:10] <paultag> jamesrfla, this is not talk for the meeting :) bring it to -uf-begin

[00:10] <paultag> bodhi_zazen, Hola

[00:10] <paultag> So, I am talking over for Joeb on the IRC front

[00:10] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC]IRC FG

[00:10] <MootBot> New Topic: IRC FG

[00:10] <Vantrax|Work> team page if anyone is interested https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-learning

[00:11] <paultag> I am looking to start expanding the IRC team a bit, working to include more people and help integrate more with the wider ubuntu community

[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> paultag: update wiki pages please :)

[00:11] <paultag> We will be looking for interested members, and yes bodhi_zazen, I'll get to updating :)

[00:11] <paultag> any questions?

[00:11] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Wiki FG

[00:11] <MootBot> New Topic:  Wiki FG

[00:11] <Rocket2DMn> yes hi

[00:12] <Rocket2DMn> Just to let you all know, the 2009 Summer of Documentation has started!

[00:12] <Rocket2DMn> If you're interested in helping, please talk to me after the meeting.  All contributions are welcome.

[00:12] <Rocket2DMn> that is all :)

[00:12] <MontelEdwards> oh bodhi_zazen: could we talk a little about the new team domain?

[00:13] <MontelEdwards> i mean, later

[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> yes MontelEdwards

[00:13] <MontelEdwards> later on in the meeting**

[00:13] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] Any other FG ?

[00:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  Any other FG ?

[00:14] <Ash_R> yes.  i have a query

[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to limit the discussion to major FG / updates ;)

[00:14] <st33med> What about the Stalker FG >.>

[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> Forums are awwesome, thanks everyone :)

[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> go Ash_R

[00:14] <sdennie> The Stalker FG, it if existed, has no updates.

[00:14] <st33med> riiiiight

[00:14] <st33med> :)

[00:14] <bodhi_zazen> st33med: I can neither confirm or deny the presence of Stalkers

[00:14] <Ash_R> what happened to the discussion about the euro/asian fg?  i have not heard anything for a while

[00:15] <st33med> </conspiracy>

[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> I am in favor Ash_R

[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> but I do not know if it came together

[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> the point is to have meetings / discussions at alternate times

[00:15] <st33med> I saw lots of emails about it in my inbox :)

[00:15] <Ash_R> i would like to help set it up,  if possible

[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> I do not know if there is enough interest

[00:15] <bodhi_zazen> coordinate with forest :)

[00:16] <lukjad007> What would happen if one FG came to one decision, but the other came to a radically differing one?

[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> I would like to see it, primarily as a means of communication and involving regions outside of the US

[00:16] <Vantrax|Work> bodhi_zazen is the king, he decides

[00:16] <lukjad007> Just wondering.

[00:16] <Joeb454> lukjad007: having a euro/asian fg would require somebody who attends the normal meetings

[00:16] <Joeb454> to attend the other meetings

[00:16] <bodhi_zazen> yes, forest was going to coordinate

[00:16] <lukjad007> Joeb454 Well, I guess that makes sense

[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> the point would be to allow the FG lead to vote by proxy as well ;)

[00:17] <Ash_R> i intend to try and go to both.

[00:17] <lukjad007> Joeb454 The next meeting is Friday, right?

[00:17] <bodhi_zazen> any other FG ?

[00:17] <Joeb454> lukjad007: for what? =/

[00:17] <lukjad007> Forum council

[00:17]  * lukjad007 is getting mixed up with all the acronyms

[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> swoody: poke

[00:18]  * thewrath same here

[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] NUN

[00:18] <st33med> Alphabet soup, anyone?

[00:18] <MootBot> New Topic:  NUN

[00:18] <swoody> heya bodhi_zazen :)

[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu#New%20User%20Network

[00:18] <Vantrax|Work> NUN = dead

[00:18] <st33med> bodhi_zazen, shun!

[00:18] <bodhi_zazen> The NUN have disbanded and are all but extinct

[00:19] <bodhi_zazen> +1 for replacing :)

[00:19] <bodhi_zazen> w/ UFBT

[00:19] <st33med> Delete@!

[00:19] <Rocket2DMn> Do we have authority to replace that team?  Who founded and coordinated it?

[00:19] <swoody> bodhi_zazen:  +1

[00:19] <Vantrax|Work> UFBT replace NUN

[00:19] <bodhi_zazen> [ACTION] bodhi_zazen to appoint FG leads

[00:19] <MootBot> ACTION received:  bodhi_zazen to appoint FG leads

[00:19] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] Replace NUN with UFBT ?

[00:19] <MootBot> Please vote on:  Replace NUN with UFBT ?.

[00:19] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:19] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:19] <swoody> I had emailed both people listed as 'moderators' for the team, but  no response from either one of them

[00:19] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:19] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:19] <st33med> +

[00:19] <Vantrax|Work> +1

[00:19] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax|Work. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:19] <st33med> +1

[00:19] <MootBot> +1 received from st33med. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:20] <swoody> +1

[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> I am not sure we need to ask permission, it is a wiki, just edit I would think

[00:20] <duanedesign> +1

[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4

[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6

[00:20] <Ash_R> +1

[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from Ash_R. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:20] <lukjad007> +1

[00:20] <Joeb454> 0

[00:20] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjad007. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:20] <Vantrax|Work> Verify that we can first, maybe at the same CC meeting?

[00:20] <Joeb454> er

[00:20] <Joeb454> +0

[00:20] <MootBot> Abstention received from Joeb454. 8 for, 0 against. 1 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:20] <lukjad007> nun=none, right?

[00:20] <ds305> +0

[00:20] <MootBot> Abstention received from ds305. 8 for, 0 against. 2 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:20] <lukjad007> :P

[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> NUN = New User Network

[00:20] <lukjad007> >.<

[00:20] <st33med> What was it?

[00:20] <Joeb454> I don't know much about what NUN or how we intend to replace it, but I like the sound of it

[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> We can ask at June 2nd meeting ;)

[00:20] <nathangrubb> +0

[00:20] <MootBot> Abstention received from nathangrubb. 8 for, 0 against. 3 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:20] <Vantrax|Work> exactly what is says

[00:20] <Rocket2DMn> I don

[00:20] <lukjad007> I never heard of it, so I don't like it

[00:20] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]

[00:20] <MootBot> Final result is 8 for, 0 against. 3 abstained. Total: 8

[00:20] <Rocket2DMn> dont know anything aobut it

[00:21] <Vantrax|Work> it lasted for a month or two

[00:21] <Ash_R> it seems to mirror beginners team purpose

[00:21] <st33med> Competition?

[00:21] <Vantrax|Work> great idea, burned bright, and burned out fast

[00:21] <st33med> Was it by Grant A? XD

[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> [ACTION] Replace NUN => UFBT -> ask at June 2nd meeting (we should add that to the CC agenda)

[00:21] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Replace NUN => UFBT -> ask at June 2nd meeting (we should add that to the CC agenda)

[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> swoody: ^^

[00:21] <bodhi_zazen> Partyboi ?

[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> no party here I see >:)

[00:22] <lukjad007> Ha

[00:22] <MontelEdwards> parti left

[00:22] <st33med> PARTY?

[00:22] <st33med> WHERE?

[00:22] <swoody> bodhi_zazen:  you want me to bring it up on the 2nd?

[00:22] <MontelEdwards> lol st33med

[00:22] <lukjad007> st33med Two doors to the left

[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> put it on the agenda if you would ?

[00:22] <swoody> sure thing :)

[00:22]  * st33med enters the room to find several whores on the bed

[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> you can put it under my name :)

[00:22] <st33med> ...

[00:22] <bodhi_zazen> I will bring it up

[00:22] <MontelEdwards> lmao st33med haha

[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] UFBT agenda to UFBT mailing list ?

[00:23] <MootBot> New Topic:  UFBT agenda to UFBT mailing list ?

[00:23] <swoody> bodhi_zazen:  ok, will do :)

[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> I would +1 that if someone wants to do it

[00:23] <lukjad007> 0

[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> personally , IMO, that is what we use a wiki page for

[00:23]  * lukjad007 rides the fence

[00:23] <jamesrfla> bodhi_zazen: what would you have to do?

[00:23] <Rocket2DMn> I think it should be up to whoever adds an item to the agenda - if they feel it should go to the list, then they can start the thread

[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> and that is why one can subscribe to wiki pages >:)

[00:23] <bodhi_zazen> generate an email based on wiki page

[00:24] <jamesrfla> doesn't seem to hard

[00:24] <Vantrax|Work> it would be a nice idea to sent it out the day before

[00:25] <jamesrfla> So send a e-mail with the agenda on it. Would a like to the wiki meeting page work?

[00:26] <duanedesign> thats sn idea

[00:26] <bodhi_zazen> As I said, I do not mind an email, but someone else will need to volunteer to generate the email :)

[00:26] <Ash_R> i like the idea

[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> No bods ?

[00:27] <Vantrax|Work> i vote wiki FG to do it:P

[00:27] <bodhi_zazen> Bods poke :)

[00:27] <MontelEdwards> sorry lost power for a second

[00:27] <Rocket2DMn> Vantrax|Work, i decline

[00:27] <Rocket2DMn> I'm not doing other people's work for them

[00:27] <duanedesign> have stalking FG do it

[00:27] <lukjad007> duanedesign +1

[00:27] <Ash_R> duanedesign: +1

[00:28] <lukjad007> Carried

[00:28] <lukjad007> >:)

[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> [Action] Email UFBT agenda to UFBT mailing list the day before if we have a volunteer to do it, otherwise subscribe to meeting page please :)

[00:28] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Email UFBT agenda to UFBT mailing list the day before if we have a volunteer to do it, otherwise subscribe to meeting page please :)

[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> And I think that is it :)

[00:28] <bodhi_zazen> any other agenda items ?

[00:29] <MontelEdwards> domain....

[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] NEW MEMBERS

[00:29] <MootBot> New Topic:  NEW MEMBERS

[00:29] <lukjad007> My favourate part

[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> TuxPurple has been nominated for membership :)

[00:29] <TuxPurple> :)

[00:29] <Ash_R> hooray :)

[00:29] <Joeb454> -9000

[00:29] <lukjad007> TuxPurple !

[00:29] <jamesrfla> bodhi_zazen: I might be able to do the volunteer job. I just need something to remind my self that I need to do but all I need is a note

[00:29] <Joeb454> j/k

[00:29] <bodhi_zazen> He needs no introduction, he is a penguin, he's purple ....

[00:29] <lukjad007> +2

[00:29] <Vantrax|Work> +++

[00:29] <Rocket2DMn> thats almost as good as pink!

[00:30] <Ash_R> +10

[00:30] <MontelEdwards> ha

[00:30] <lukjad007> +30

[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> anyone have any questions b4 we vote ?

[00:30] <Rocket2DMn> link to wiki page?

[00:30] <TuxPurple> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TuxPurple

[00:30] <Ash_R> can we have tazmanian devils in the team ;)

[00:30] <Rocket2DMn> thanks

[00:30] <Vantrax|Work> who is his master?

[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TuxPurple

[00:30] <Ash_R> forest

[00:30] <lukjad007> TuxPurple do you promise to uphold the laws and regulations govern...

[00:30] <bodhi_zazen> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TuxPurple

[00:30] <MootBot> LINK received: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TuxPurple

[00:30] <TuxPurple> Vantrax|Work, forestpixie

[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> master = forest, who is not here :(

[00:31] <sdennie> Ash_R: For the 2.6.29 kernel, the official icon was actually changed from a penguin to a tazmanian devil.

[00:31] <st33med> ...

[00:31] <Vantrax|Work> if pixie thinks he's ready thats enough for me

[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> [VOTE] TuxPurple for membership

[00:31] <MootBot> Please vote on:  TuxPurple for membership.

[00:31] <MootBot> Public votes can be registered by saying +1/-1/+0 in the channel, private votes by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0  to MootBot

[00:31] <MootBot> E.g. /msg MootBot +1 #ubuntu-meeting

[00:31] <jamesrfla> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from jamesrfla. 1 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 1

[00:31] <swoody> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from swoody. 2 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 2

[00:31] <sdennie> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from sdennie. 3 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 3

[00:31] <Ash_R> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from Ash_R. 4 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 4

[00:31] <lukjad007> +2

[00:31] <Rocket2DMn> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from Rocket2DMn. 5 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 5

[00:31] <Joeb454> +1

[00:31] <lukjad007> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from Joeb454. 6 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 6

[00:31] <bodhi_zazen> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from lukjad007. 7 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 7

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from bodhi_zazen. 8 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 8

[00:31] <MootBot> Private +1 vote received. 9 for, 0 against, 0 have abstained. Count is now 9

[00:31] <duanedesign> +1

[00:31] <st33med> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from duanedesign. 10 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 10

[00:31] <Vantrax|Work> note... it was a tazmanian devil pretending to be a penguin

[00:31] <lukjad007> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from st33med. 11 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 11

[00:31] <Vantrax|Work> +1

[00:31] <lukjad007> +1

[00:31] <MootBot> +1 received from Vantrax|Work. 12 for, 0 against. 0 have abstained. Count is now 12

[00:31] <lukjad007> +1

[00:32] <Joeb454> lukjad007....

[00:32] <lukjad007> Yes?

[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> [ENDVOTE]

[00:32] <MootBot> Final result is 12 for, 0 against. 0 abstained. Total: 12

[00:32] <Ash_R> congratulations TuxPurple!

[00:32] <lukjad007> I just wanted to make sure he got a fair vote...

[00:32] <lukjad007> Congrats tuxlinux

[00:32] <bodhi_zazen> [ACTION] Please welcome the Tux Purple :)

[00:32] <MootBot> ACTION received:  Please welcome the Tux Purple :)

[00:32] <TuxPurple> thanks everyone :)

[00:32] <lukjad007> Congrats TuxPurple

[00:32] <Rocket2DMn> cool, congrats!

[00:32] <thewrath> hey TuxPurple

[00:32] <thewrath> welcome

[00:32] <TuxPurple> thank you :D

[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> [TOPIC] ufbt.net

[00:33] <MootBot> New Topic:  ufbt.net

[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> yes MontelEdwards ?

[00:33] <bodhi_zazen> I registered a domain

[00:33] <Ash_R> how is ufbt going to be different from the wiki?  what is its purpose?

[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> will use it temp to host teh moodle project

[00:34] <bodhi_zazen> ;)

[00:34] <MontelEdwards> Yes, i was thinking that we should brainstorm things for a homepage or either forwarding it to wiki, whatever team decides.

[00:34] <Ash_R> ah,  i understand

[00:35] <bodhi_zazen> +1 team ?

[00:36] <Vantrax|Work> forward to wiki until we have a use for it id think

[00:36] <Ash_R> forward to wiki

[00:36] <bodhi_zazen> I was going to park a home page soon, theme to match learning site ?

[00:36] <MontelEdwards> I think that a homepage would be nice, a list of members. Kinda a intro to the team

[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> no, no, forward to UCLP

[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> i thought we were going to use learn.ubuntu.com

[00:37] <Vantrax|Work> bodhi_zazen, in that case sounds good

[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> Any other topics ?

[00:37] <Vantrax|Work> Rocket2DMn, we have to have something first:P

[00:37] <Rocket2DMn> yeah, but why did we register ufbt.net?

[00:37] <bodhi_zazen> we list team members on LP and I really do not want to duplicate work

[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> If team members want a personal home page or something, I would host that

[00:38] <duanedesign> we could post Boudoir Photos of ourselves

[00:38] <jamesrfla> bodhi_zazen: I will take the agenda e-mailing job.

[00:38] <swoody> +1 duanedesign :)

[00:38] <bodhi_zazen> If team members want to practice / learn servers, I am offering VPS or cheap

[00:38] <Ash_R> this sounds an awfully lot like our wiki's

[00:38]  * MontelEdwards Rocket2DMn: had a free promo code for godaddy which he gave to bodhi_zazen 

[00:38] <thewrath> bodhi_zazen: how cheap?

[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> 10 / month for 256 RAM + I think 5 Gb HD space

[00:39] <duanedesign> bodhi_zazen: I have been enjoying my VPSe a lot

[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> + 10 for initial set up

[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> and I will support you as time allows

[00:39] <Vantrax|Work> bandwidth limits?

[00:39] <bodhi_zazen> When you "grow up" , fivebean is probably a better deal

[00:40] <duanedesign> like if your dumb enough to shut off your ssh server:)

[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> total of 500 Gb / month

[00:40] <Rocket2DMn> fivebean :) all hail u-g!

[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> divided , so I am asking team not to abuse it

[00:40] <MontelEdwards> bodhi_zazen: pay via paypal?

[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> yes, I can send a requst for payment via paypal

[00:40] <bodhi_zazen> contact me if you are interested

[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> 256 Mb is a ton with VPS ;)

[00:41] <Vantrax|Work> thats enough to run just about anything

[00:41] <MontelEdwards> k

[00:41] <thewrath> bodhi_zazen:  would we be able to do stuff with apache,. etc?

[00:41] <lukjad007> That's it for the meeting?

[00:41] <jamesrfla> you don't need much just as long as it isn't using a GUI

[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> Oh, and you are responsible for registering a domain, noip or otherwise

[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> thewrath: yes

[00:41] <lukjad007> Night all

[00:41] <bodhi_zazen> paultag: poke

[00:41] <Ash_R> lukjad007: i think so

[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> link to your VPS please :

[00:42] <lukjad007> Night Ash_R

[00:42] <MontelEdwards> night lukjad007

[00:42]  * lukjad007 waves at the world

[00:42] <lukjad007> Night MontelEdwards

[00:42] <bodhi_zazen> any other team issues ?

[00:42] <thewrath>  bodhi_zazen could you post on the wiki a complete page with the specs

[00:42] <thewrath> including, hd space, bandwidth, etc

[00:43] <lukjad007> kthnxbai

[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> 256 RAM

[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> 5 Gb HD

[00:43] <duanedesign> o/

[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> and as I said, total 500 Gb bandwidth, so should be plenty

[00:43] <MontelEdwards> hah i love lukjad's quit message

[00:43] <bodhi_zazen> the 500 Gb is shared between all VPS and the moodle site

[00:43] <Ash_R> bodhi_zazen:  is the meeting over?

[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> I think so ...

[00:44] <duanedesign> bodhi_zazen: on the team reporting page....

[00:44] <bodhi_zazen> #endmeeting

[00:44] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 18:44.
</pre>
----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
