{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{{https://launchpad.net/@@/person}} '''Path''': Development<<BR>>
<<BR>>

== About Us ==

The development path is here to help new users learn application design, programming concepts, get acclimated to working in a team, contributing parts to create a whole. Additionally a familiarity with Version Control Systems(VCS) is important in Open Source development. On the Development path must demonstrate an aptitude with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/VersionControl | Subversion (svn) and Bazaar (bzr)]]</nowiki>.  We teach any language that we collectively know.

== Objectives ==
* Educate Team Members on Ubuntu Development
* Help members work towards membership in Development oriented teams in the community.
* Provide learning sessions through the Development Focus Group Academy.

== Current Tasks ==
* If you are brand new to Ubuntu development and need to install the development tool set, or are setting up a new development machine and need a step by step reminder on how to, check out the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Devbeginnings|Ubuntu Dev Tools: Installation Quick Start]]</nowiki>
* We have a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BeginnersTeam/FocusGroups/Development/Projects|list of programming projects]]</nowiki> that our team members are working on that are open to new members. Some offer tutoring.
* If you are interested in Python, a popular development language in Ubuntu, see <nowiki>[[http://okiebuntu.homelinux.com/okwiki/pythonquest | Quest for Python]]</nowiki> a resource of python tutorials as well as tips for setting up Gedit to program python. 
* Read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide | Packaging Guide.]]</nowiki> This will be a valuable source as you develop for Ubuntu. Particularly <nowiki>[[PackagingGuide-Recipes]]</nowiki> is a good start, as you get to play around with the tools a bit. To get a first impression, you also might want to check out the <nowiki>[[MOTU-Videos|MOTU Videos]]</nowiki>
* Become familiar with <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment|the Ubuntu Development overview]]</nowiki>, this will help you get an idea how the Ubuntu Development Process works. Definitely check out <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-KnowledgeBase]]</nowiki> for a good list of in-depth guides, tutorials and guidelines.
* Check the Development Focus group <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-BeginnersTeam-FocusGroups-Development-Academy | Academy page]]</nowiki> for any current programming classes.
* Another place to look for Package oriented classes is the <nowiki>[[Packaging-Training]]</nowiki> sessions in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-classroom|#ubuntu-classroom]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://daniel.holba.ch/temp/guide/fixing-a-bug.html | Work on bug fixes]]</nowiki> and new packages. This is where you should start once familiar with packaging and/or a particular programming language.
* Request sponsor review of suggested changes, where sponsors:
** review the packages prepared by the prospective developer
** provide constructive feedback
** upload the package when they are satisfied with its quality
** for more information, please read <nowiki>[[SponsorshipProcess]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryBeginnersTeam
