{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the wiki page of the Belarus Local Community Team. We are coming together from different GNU/Linux User Groups under the Ubuntu flag. We aim to provide free community support to users of the various flavours of Ubuntu as well as advocating the use of Ubuntu to individuals and organisations. 

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - May 9, 2010
* '''Team Contact''' - Yura Tolstik <yltsrc@gmail.com>
* '''Membership''' - 114 as of 9st May 2010
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-by on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-by on Freenode
* '''Launchpad''' - https://launchpad.net/~belarus

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* ''Local Ubuntu Mirror'' - by.archive.ubuntu.com. CNAME ftp.mgts.by.
* ''Localization'' - continue translation of Ubuntu-specific software and documentation.
* ''Joined Effort'' - collaboration, coordination, support and involvement in spreading word about Ubuntu and Ubuntu itself in Belarus.

=== Experience ===

List here activities that the group has already done.

* Additional Debian/Ubuntu mirror at http://mirror.datacenter.by/ by <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~djdb|Ivan Semernik]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://github.com/antono/mobile-broadband-provider-info-belarus/tree/master|Local support]]</nowiki> for <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/NetworkManager/MobileBroadband/ServiceProviders|GPRS/EDGE Service Provider Database]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-by|Belarussian Translations]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://forum.linux.by/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=9951|Ubuntu release parties]]</nowiki>
* ''Ubuntu Karmic Release Party''
* ''Ubuntu Lucid Release Party''

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
