{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

attendees: Bart, Stephan, Francois, ChristopheVandeplas

=== What is PR for ubuntu-be.org ===

* All communications to outside the organisation
* 'Public look' (nl: Huisstijl)
* What, when to communicate

==== What is our public ====
- Internal or external? External (internally we use launchpad bugtracking for internal communication)
  - Users (experiences and inexperienced)
  - Potential users

==== PR content includes ====
 - Press releases
 - Web site
 - Texts and graphic design of printed material
 - guidelines for organising things, sample links:
** Concrete example with items you can think of when organising an event: http://www.ubuntu-nl.org/ubuntu-nl/eventteam/
** Concrete example for the release party: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NlMarketingTeam/ReleasePartyStappenplan

==== Information we could use/maintain ====
 - emails collected during fairs, ... => These need to be collected (discussed in 'ubuntu-be coor. internally)
 - Do we want to take into account to use emails of persons who agreed that they want to receive info?

=== Press spotting ===
- Do we need to keep sight of all web-publications about Ubuntu? Could be good to actively read and necessarilly *react* on these articles?
- Do we need to collect these: we already do so (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/PressCoverage), maybe not aways active enough...

=== General remarks ===
* Ubuntu-be.org is an important site which creates first-impression of us as user-group. Should be reviewed:
  - more clear
  - clearer structure (see: website-session)
* Who's-who page: do we need this? We have this (on the wiki, not in ubuntu-be.org)
* Could be good to have a (wiki)page to have info about general goals of ubuntu-be
* Sell promotional material 'to support ubuntu-be' (ref: promotional material-session, the gadget-part)
* Do we need a task force? Not necessarilly, rely more on spontaeous moments... Ubuntu-be is 'not yet big enough' to have a specific PR-responsible or something like that. Better would be: work as much as possible distributed...

