{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== BelgianTeam/OsLessLaptopShopsDbDesign ==
To create a website that allows visitors to search shops that sell open source friendly hardware, OS less laptops and/or PC's, ... we need a solid structural design.

We define 4 components:
* Use case: how will te website be used? By visitors, volunteers, admins, ...
* Models: how will we store the information in a database, with which procedures.
* Controllers: how will the visitor, volunteer, admin control the data in the database.
* Views: how will the visitor, volunteer, admin view the website and it's data.

=== What is needed ===
To know what we are creating, we need a 'what we want' specification: see <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/HardwareBuyingSpec]]</nowiki></nowiki>]

=== How to implement ===
* Use Code Igniter as framework.
* Use PHP 4 as coding language.
* Use MySQL as database.
* And for everything else: use open software and standards.

=== Current database draft ===
This draft defines the database model.

You need an explanation to understand the principle:
* Each real life object (a shop called Tones.be, a laptop called Dell Inspiron 8600, ..) is defined as an ''item''.
* Each general object (a shop, a laptop) is defined as a ''type''.
* A ''type'' has a ''template'', which is build by one or more ''properties''.
* An ''item'' must be of a certain ''type''.
* Of each ''item'', a ''history'' is kept on every update of information.
* Each ''item'' has one or more ''properties'', defined by the ''template''.
It is a quite general approach, but this allows us to extend the site when needed.

Types are predefined by admin level users of the website. No volunteer can add a type by itself, but should be able to request one.

* A ''supporter'' is a person who can add, update all ''items''.
* A ''supporter'' can have one or more ''addresses''.
* A ''supporter'' can belong to one or more ''organisations''.
* A ''supporter'' can be member of one or more ''groups'' (for login access)
* Of each ''supporter'', a list of ''commitments'' is kept.

Supporters can log in to the website for modifying items and properties.

Access to pages is defined by groups (ACL style permissions).

=== Database design ===

MySQL dump attached.
