{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a draft list of places in Belgium where you can get a laptop without paying for a MS Windows license. It probably contains quite a few errors and inconsistencies. Please help us make this list more reliable and complete.

If adding to this list, please follow this template see below):

* name, where
** last checked: when by who <emailaddress>
** url: http://www.
** email: 
** mail order: 
** brick and mortar shop: 
** models: 
** without OS discount: 
** comments: 
** Contactinformation: 

=== Belgian shops that sell laptops with Ubuntu installed ===
* Linux-Service, Gavere (Ghent)
** last checked: 09/02/2011 by jean7491 <jean7491ATgmailDOTcom>
** url: http://linux-service.be
** email: guy@linux-service.be
** mail order: yes
** brick and mortar shop: yes
** models: MSI ?
** without OS discount: ?
** comments: only based on web-information
** Contactinformation: LINUX-SERVICE.BE BVBA Grenadierslaan 65 - B-9890 Gavere

=== Belgian shops that sell laptops without MS Windows ===
* Wegetit, Deinze
** last checked: 09/02/2011 by jean7491 <jean7491ATgmailDOTcom>
** url: http://wegetit.be
** email: info@wegetit.be
** mail order: yes
** brick and mortar shop: no
** models: 
** without OS discount: 
** comments: only based on web-information
** Contactinformation: Eric Van Aelst, Kortrijkstraat 50/3, 9800 Deinze

==== Shop on the web ====

* LDLC.com
** last checked: 12 February 2011 by Rami Adrien <rami@adrien.be>
** url: http://www.ldlc.com
** brick and mortar shop: no
** models: LDLC Laptop
** without OS discount: Product from the seller is without Os
** comments: There is not a special category in the site you have to use the filter and search PC without OS. I buy the  
    LDLC C5105 and I had no driver problem all work directly and very good price for the quality.

==== Information 2006 - need to be controlled and updated ====
* tones.be, Mechelen
** last checked: 2006/07/11 by Mark Van den Borre <mvdborre@gmail.com>
** url: http://www.tones.be
** email: info@tones.be
** mail order: yes
** brick and mortar shop: yes
** models: MSI barebones
** without OS discount: 89 €
** comments: You have to select a model with MS Windows included first, but you can drop it from your shopping basket before checking out.

* dell.be
** last checked: 2005/05/01 by Peter Dedecker
** url: http://www.dell.be
** mail order: yes
** brick and mortar shop: no
** models: Dell Latitude series, _not_ the Inspiron series
** without OS discount: negotiable, don't settle for anything less than 50 €
** comments: You have to explicitly ask on the phone for a discounted machine without MS Windows preinstalled. Machine was delivered with FreeDos.

* Blue Sky Computing, Sint-Niklaas
** last checked: 2006/06/28 by Amedee Van Gasse <amedee@amedee.be>
** url: http://bluesky.be/
** email: info@bluesky.be
** models: Maxdata
** mail order: yes
** brick and mortar shop: yes
** without OS discount: How much exactly did you save, Amedee?
** comments: You have to explicitly ask on the phone/by email/in the shop for a machine without MS Windows preinstalled. Best service is in the shop, where you can ask to change other aspects of the (hardware) configuration.

==== TEMPLATE ====
* Friterie "Chez Marie", Fexhe-le-haut-clocher
** last checked: 2006/01/01 by Louis de Funès <louis@defunès.fr>
** url: http://www.fritkotwheretheyalsosellcomputers.be
** email: friesandcomputers@skynet.be
** mail order: yes
** brick and mortar shop: yes
** models: Commodore 64 portables
** without OS discount: 90 € and a portion of excellent fries
** comments: Did I mention they have excellent fries?
