{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


 '''[TO BE UPDATED in 2010]  -  Please add your comment/correction with reference 2010 !'''

=== Goal ===
* customised Ubuntu installer cd (standard 32 bit x86)
** strip as much as needed from things not commonly used in Belgium
*** exotic fonts
**** I would keep these, if possible -- JanClaeys
*** keyboard layouts
**** all of them are in the same small package ('xkb-data') -- JanClaeys
*** minimal language support for exotic languages
**** I think we can remove everything but en, nl, fr & de -- JanClaeys
*** English win32 apps
**** I would remove all the win32 apps -- JanClaeys
** fully internationalised to Dutch, French and if possible English
*** I would rather do nl/fr/de/en ? -- JanClaeys
** fully localised for Belgium
*** default to azerty-be keyboard
*** we can set the timezone and the keyboard layout for the installer maybe.[5] -- GianniMoschini
** no other changes
*** JanClaeys proposes at least the following other changes:
**** Belgian e-ID drivers & software
**** anything needed for using & configuring existing broadband connections in .be
**** maybe pytelemeter & other similar tools if they exist?
** PieterVerledens:
*** Put everything in *.deb packages
*** Set up our own repo
*** Modify /etc/apt/preferences => always prefere the belgian packages
*** Change firefox bookmarks, add ubuntu-be i.e.
** Warddr:
*** Install the restricted extra's, the software pattents are not recognised in Europe, so it's legal to install them.
 
=== TODO ===
* document existing customisation solutions

=== Discussion ===
* What do we want from a localised cd?
* Which packages have to be removed which ones have to be added?

=== I want to help! ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ginsys.be|Serge van Ginderachter]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[svg]]</nowiki>  Count me in.
* RoelHuybrechts -- as much as possible, I have lots and lots of school work these days, but I will do my best
* Peter Dedecker: I can't participate because lack of time, but at Ghent University we also wanted to create a localised CD.  The biggest reason therefor was that students at the university residence need VPNC to access the internet, but to install VPNC, you need access to the internet.  See http://www.vtk.ugent.be/wvs/wiki/index.php/UGuntu for more information.
* PieterVerledens I created my own version a few months ago. Now I want to help you :-)
* GaetanFrenoy -- very important project to ease access to the Ubuntu-world for non-English speaking users
* Gianni Moschini -- We should focus on minimal changes, to have just the needed packages for the "belganisation". First as you said on the mailing, try to make the boot menu auto configured for the keyboard and the language. Then you need to install some more package: just go to the system > administration > linguistic support, and select the language you need (try this with a live-session cd). You will see the package needed to fully localize your ubuntu in your language. Don't forget we need to keep it simple, it should feel as an official version of ubuntu, and not too customised.
* JanClaeys
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mike-morraye-be | Mike Morraye]]</nowiki>

=== Relevant links ===
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DerivativeTeam
* http://uck.sourceforge.net/
* http://reconstructor.aperantis.com/
* http://wiki.debian.org/CustomDebian
* [5] http://blog.technomancy.org/2007/04/09/automating-an-edubuntu-install-cd/
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDCustomization/  > it's prety old (hoary/breezy and a bit for dapper) but it seems interesting. Check the "Language Localizations" section.
* http://lists.alioth.debian.org/pipermail/debian-live-devel/2007-March/001029.html (something to keep an eye on)
* https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InstallCDCustomization
