{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Services ===
* to (potential) end users
* to community members
* cms
** easy to use
** broadly used (security updates!)
** +: used by other locoteams (theming)
** +: limited setup and maintenance overhead
* planet
** +: integration with cms
** +: limited setup and maintenance overhead
* map.ubuntu-be.org
** mail infrastructure
** +: integration with cms
* traffic analysis:
** Where do our visitors come from?
** What browsers do they use?
** What pages are most popular?
* photo gallery (can easily be outsourced)
* privacy, privacy, privacy!

=== Technical needs & wishes: infrastructure ===
* >= 99,5% network availability SLA (= 2 days of downtime/year)
* Any idea of our current bandwidth usage?
* Do we need our own dedicated (virtual) machine?
* ssh access
** map developer
** who else?
* Debian/Ubuntu OS preferred
* have a clear spare alternative around:
** temporary migration of services to another machine
** development work
* limiting "exotic" software eases migration
* for free offers:
** preference for Debian/Ubuntu people
** written contract:
*** >= 1 year
*** warning at least a month before kicking us out
*** reputation:
**** trusted by people in the know
**** historical network uptime?

=== Investment ===
* Money. Do we want to spend (donated) money on this?
* Sponsoring. Can we accept sponsors for this without compromising our independence?
* Volunteer time.

=== Volunteers and their skills ===

* volunteers:
** CedricJanssens
** BenjaminSion
** BramVandoren (limited)

=== Random ideas ===
* round robin for increased availability
