{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu operating system: Belgian user network launched ===

''Brussels, 2006/06/01'' - Belgian users of Ubuntu, Linux for human beings, today launched the ubuntu-be.org network to coincide with the release of the free Ubuntu 6.06 LTS operating system. The ubuntu-be.org network will stimulate the local use of Ubuntu by individuals, companies and educational, non-profit and (inter)govermental institutions.

Ubuntu-be.org maintains a map with over seventy volunteers nationwide. They help end users switch to Ubuntu by handing out installation sets, giving demos and helping people through their first installation. "This is all about mindshare," said Mark Van den Borre, ubuntu-be.org Dutch project lead, "Sterling stability, privacy and no viruses or spyware thanks to free software: Ubuntu has many users already, but they're not very visible. A second wave of potential switchers want to learn from the experience of early birds first before making the jump. This map is for them. It should give them confidence that Ubuntu 6.06 LTS is mature software and fit for their needs."
xxxx xxxx, ubuntu-be.org volunteer from xxxx: "I am a retiree and a happy Ubuntu user. I surf, mail, write, watch my photos, listen to my music, I bank online. No viruses, no spyware, no fiddling with licenses: no worries. And then the support I got from other Ubuntu users: simply splendid. Seeing their dedication to helping me use this great free software, I decided it was time to give something back to the community, so I volunteered. Even with my limited technical skills, I can help people switch, a very rewarding feeling."

For net based community support like online documentation, user forums and instant messaging based support, ubuntu-be.org cooperates with ubuntu-nl.org, a team of Dutch speaking volunteers that also caters local community support to Holland. "In a relatively small language community like the Dutch one, critical mass is very important. Fragmentation would devalue our work significantly," said xxxx xxxx, ubuntu-nl.org project lead, "We're happy to have ubuntu-be.org's help in improving Dutch language community support."

Larger organisations can make their ideal mix of community support with paid support. Based upon the robust Debian GNU/Linux system, Ubuntu 6.06 LTS has a support cycle of three years for desktops and five years for servers. That makes it practical for third parties to offer paid support. Ubuntu-be.org refers to the Ubuntu marketplace for information on where to find paid support. http://www.ubuntu.com/support/marketplace/europe lists companies that offer services and support for Ubuntu 6.06 LTS.

Education. "We are happy to see Ubuntu and its educational subproject Edubuntu enrich the education space with their easy to use free software offering," said xxxx xxx, Flemish government ministery of education xxxx xxxx/ xxxx xxxx, project lead, xxxx, Flemish IT in education portal.  "Education is all about sharing knowledge. The ubuntu-be.org network will help teachers put that adage into their daily computer practice by introducing them to Edubuntu."

About ubuntu-be.org

The Ubuntu-be.org team wants to grow the ecosystem of individuals, companies, non-profits, educational institutions and governmental and intergovernmental institutions working with Ubuntu Linux in and very close to Belgium. To achieve this, we follow a two-pronged approach. In areas like installation set distribution where location is key to success, ubuntu-be.org members do the work. In areas like documentation and online support, where language is key to success, we refer people to online resources in their language. Ubuntu-nl.org and ubuntu-fr.org, both Ubuntu Community Council recognised projects, are our preferred partners.

More info: http://ubuntu-be.org

Ubuntu-be.org team: https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-be

Mailing list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-be

Contact:

* For NL : 

Mark Van den Borre
ubuntu-be.org NL coordinator
mark@vrijesoftware.be
0486 961726

* For FR :

Cédric Janssens
ubuntu-be.org FR coordinator
decirc@gmail.com
0498 205763

and

Lionel Dricot
ubuntu-be.org FR coordinator
ploum@ubuntu.com
