{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-be One Day Drupal Sprint ==
A one day workshop to finally get a new website (based on Drupal).

=== Discussions ===
Just to point out, I already made a setup of a website, with translation module running, a planet module, openid, and a complete ported skin to drupal 6. I can give the password to the ftp is someone is interested. I think most work should go into (a) Content, (b) content,, (c) content, (d) content, (e) translation, (f) the support maps, (g) minor drupal tweaks. the url is still: http://ubuntu-be.bitethebits.net/ --francois cauwe
 Francois, which module did you use ? Can you publish the skins files ? --Pierre Buyle
  I used only default modules, I think drupal 6 has everything we need. These are the modules I enabled extra: aggregator for the planet, content translator, and openid. The theme needs still some tuning but can be downloaded from http://neverland.cauwe.org/fcauwe/ubuntu-drupal-skin.tar.gz  -- francois

=== Participants ===
* Pierre Buyle: PHP & Javascript development, stunt coordinator.
* Sander Van der Maelen: Familiar with Drupal, copy/paste content from current website and/or ubuntu.com.
* Bruno De Bondt: Can help with the set up, config and theming of Drupal.
* Pierre Vorhagen: Would be pleased to help, in particular for the german part but also for anything else.
* you ?

The following skills are needed (and required for the day to be successful), register here and/or on the Doodle and/or on the Ubuntu-be mailing list.
* Drupal module and customization
* Content writing

=== When ===
 2008/07/19

=== Where ===
* Indymedia.be office (Bruxelles)
