{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Presentation of Ubuntu at Wijnegem, October 2011 ==

* Where? Wijnegem Cultureel Centrum, Turnhoutsebaan, Wijnegem (near Antwerp)
* What? 3 sessions of 2 hours, introducing Ubuntu to a low-tech group of 8 people.
* When? 3 Friday evenings from 8pm until 10pm in October.
* Ubuntu-be was contacted by Wijnegem Cultureel Centrum with the question of presenting Linux to some of their members.
* Jan Bongaerts presented an introductory course to a small group of retired people who were interested in the system. The challenge was to keep the presentation simple enough for all to understand, some of which had no computer background whatsoever.

==== Content (in Dutch) ====

** Inleiding

    Ubuntu is voor gewone gebruikers

** Besturingssysteem

    Wat is een besturingssysteem (operating system) en wat zijn de verschillen?

** Open source

    Wat is open source en hoe vergelijkt dat met closed source?

** Voordelen
*** Gratis 
*** Automatische updates voor alle software 
*** Geen virussen en dus geen virusscan.
*** Verschillende workspaces
*** Volledig werkend systeem 
*** Tweaking mogelijk.
*** Geen trials: 
      Bijvoorbeed: DVD brander software, Video DVD's en ISO's Backup software, Déjà Dup

** Verkenning
     Layouts van de verschillende desktops

** Taakjes

*** Taalondersteuning aanpassen/verbeteren

*** Toetsenbord van QWERTY naar AZERTY veranderen

*** USB-devices aansluiten

*** Basisbewerkingen met LibreOffice

*** Installeer een programma met 
**** Applications → Software Center 
**** Bijvoorbeeld: 
**** Skype 
       
     
*** Bij elk probleem: Google "Ubuntu + zoekterm" 
*** Voorbeeld: bij Standaard Ubuntu moet je de vensters aan de linkerkant sluiten.
**** Google "Ubuntu close button right" 
**** Kijk naar de antwoorden. 
**** Kies wat voor jou van toepassing is. 
**** Bij  http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/13535 krijg je goede uitleg. 

*** Kijken of printer werkt
*** Eerst gewoon aansluiten en kijken of hij zo werkt
*** Als het niet werkt, zoekt hij zelf op het internet naar een driver
*** Evt problemsolving zoals hierboven
     
** Praktische info

*** Peripherals 
*** Plug & Play 
*** Zoek op het internet 
*** Koop bewust
**** HP heeft goeie support
**** Zoek model op voorhand op op het internet
**** Neem evt laptop mee naar de winkel
**** Vraag naar inruilvoorwaarden 

*** File structuur: Alles begint met root: / 
      /home: bevat persoonlijke data zoals Desktop en settings 
      /media: hierin worden alle partities en USB-sticks gemount

*** Veiligheidstip 
*** Wees zeker dat je bron betrouwbaar is als er om je paswoord gevraagd wordt 
*** Software Center, Synaptic Package Manager, Update Manager, Ubuntu Forums
*** Pas op met het zelf installeren van software (.deb files)

*** Populaire software

*** Naamgeving Ubuntu versies: 
*** jaar + maand. 
*** Nu elke 6 maanden een nieuwe versie. gewone versie: support (updates) voor minstens 18 maanden. 
*** LTS (Long Term Support) versie: support voor minstens 36 maanden. 
*** Ook een catchy naam met exotische Dierennaam, alliteratie van opeenvolgende letters van het alfabet. 
**** 9.10 Karmic Koala
**** 10.04 Lucid Lynx (LTS)
**** 10.10 Maverick Meerkat
**** 11.04 Natty Narwhal
**** 11.10 Oneiric Ocelot
**** 12.04 Precise Pangolin

*** FAQ

==== Report ====

* The presentation was a mixed success. Presentation was in a computer class with overhead beamer and computers set up on the side of the room. Beamer with two possible sources. Wired and wireless internet available. Some people brought their own laptop. The feedback to the course was OK, but I had the feeling that I did not connect to some people well enough.

* The computers were older than expected, especially the graphic cards could not handle the standard Unity, and even the classic look did not work from scratch. We had to start with "nomodeset" to make it work. Unfortunately the difference between Gnome and Unity slowed down the process a bit, since we had to cater for both.

* Having to demonstrate both in classic mode on the older computers, Kubuntu on one computer by request, and Unity on the laptops, slowed down the process quite a bit, and may have seemed confusing to some.

* The demonstration with the printer went well. It was a HP printer. When I plugged in the printer, it just was recognised and configured automatically. Unfortunately I could not print anything because a cartridge is empty.

* 90 Euro was paid into the Ubuntu account. JanC made some expenses to send some CDs, and this should be deducted.

* The responsible person for Wijnegem Cultureel Centrum asked about starting a 'linux club' with a low tech threshold. I referred him to the lug in the area. I have no idea how active it is, however, and maybe some more ideas could be proposed.

* Presentation can be found here: <nowiki>[[attachment:Ubuntu les October 2011]]</nowiki>
