{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Participants ===
* MarkVanDenBorre: iBook G4, 40 pressed 6.06 LTS cd's, camera
* Jeroen Wouters: laptop Toshiba Satellite A60, edgy
* Yves Jans: laptop with live CD, TFT screen, car, ?camera?
* Adriaan Leijnse: cross cable, mass storage music player (iAudio X5L)
* Annelies Bollen: laptop Asus A6JC, edgy, no xgl, camera :-)
* FrancoisCauwe: laptop Dell D600, edgy, aiglx, 5 pressed 6.06 LTS cd's, camera!
* ChristopheVandeplas: laptop IBM T43, 1GB ram, LiveCD
* YOU?

=== Fees ===
* 38 € in fees paid by: Adrien Verlee

=== Stuff needed ===
==== paper, attachments, various ====
* 500 leaflets: what is ubuntu? what is ubuntu-be.org?: MarkVandenBorre
* 3 A0 posters: MarkVandenBorre
* newsletter & volunteer lists: MarkVandenBorre
* tape, scissors, thin rope: who?
* glass bottle for collecting contributions: who?

==== electronics ====
* presentation machine + TFT monitor: Yves Jans
* demo desktop machine + TFT monitor: borrow/buy locally
** Intel >=256 Mb
** >=PIII (FrancoisCauwe: I can take my laptop with me?)
* demo server machine headless: borrow/buy locally
** 256 Mb
* installation demo machine + : borrow/buy locally
* cross cable for link demo desktop <-> demo server (Annelies Bollen => it's only 3 metres,... is that okay?)
* personal camera: all of us! we need pics!
* electricity box (or how do you call such a thing?)
* ? compatible scanner: MarkVandenBorre (HP Scanjet 2200C)
* compatible printer: borrow/buy PostScript thing locally
* mass storage music player: FrancoisCauwe: I have a Zolid(aldi) Mp3 player, but it's not really nice)
* mass storage camera: who? (+ cable!)

=== Print Documents ===
* the leaflet: <nowiki>[[attachment:flyer.zip]]</nowiki>
* Lists for new users: <nowiki>[[attachment:ubuntu-lijsten-nl.odt]]</nowiki>
