{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Mission statement ===
The Ubuntu-be team wants to grow the local ecosystem of individuals, companies, non-profits and governmental and intergovernmental institutions working with Ubuntu Linux in and very close to Belgium. To achieve this, we follow a two-pronged approach:
1. In areas where location is key to success (example: install parties), ubuntu-be team members do the work.
2. In areas where language is key to success (examples: documentation, online support), we refer people to their respective language project (ubuntu-nl, ubuntu-fr, ubuntu-de, ubuntu-tr, ubuntu-ku, ...).

Ubuntu-be members publish and coordinate their efforts with the different local, regional, language community and national levels involved in mind. Special attention goes to nl_be - fr_be coordination.

For the mission statement of Ubuntu itself you can take a look at: http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu

=== Who ===
* List of current volunteers: https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-be
* Who is Responsible for what? : <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Responsibility]]</nowiki>
* A list of the people with their skills and competences : <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Skills]]</nowiki>
* Links to pictures of us and our activities can be found on the page of the even itself (see Activities, Fair Booths & Events.
You can also search for the <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/tags/ubuntube | ubuntube Flickr tag]]</nowiki>.

To join us:
1. Subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-be|Ubuntu-be mailing list]]</nowiki>
2. Send a message to the list telling who you are and why you are interested in becoming a member.
3. Create an account in http://launchpad.net if you don't already have one
4. If you want to do serious volunteer work, apply for membership at https://launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-be .

Currently, Ubuntu-be is an informal organization of Ubuntu enthusiasts. As such, our realizations are mostly the action of willing individuals acting on their own. There is a ongoing reflexion on how to to organize ourself more effectively at <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-TeamOrganization]]</nowiki>. Feel free to join the discussion.

The Belgian Team is an approved Ubuntu LoCo. <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Approval | Read more about what this means here]]</nowiki>

=== Contact ===
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-be|Ubuntu-be mailing list]]</nowiki>
 People from all Belgian language communities are on this list. Please write your message in English or at your discretion in one of the official Belgian languages.

 This mailing list is not a help or press desk. It is for team coordination only! Off topic requests possibly won't get any response. If you're lucky they get forwarded to the appropriate channel. There's a <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-be.org/nl/node/11 |page dedicated to user support]]</nowiki>.

* IRC: irc.freenode.net , channel <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-be|#ubuntu-be]]</nowiki>. This IRC channel is not a help or press desk. It is for team coordination only! Off topic requests possibly won't get any response. If you're lucky they get forwarded to the appropriate channel. 
* web: http://ubuntu-be.org
** Addition of links of fellow FOSS projects to the Ubuntu-be.org website: <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Website-LinksToAssociations]]</nowiki> - (Working paper)
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Website-Commercial_links|Addition of links on the web-site]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micro-blogging|Micro-blogging]]</nowiki>
** on <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/|identi.ca]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/group/ubuntube|!ubuntube]]</nowiki> 
** on <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com|Twitter]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/#search?q=%23ubuntube|#ubuntube]]</nowiki> (very low volume, no tweets most of the time)
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_network_service|Social Networks]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=87950312093|Facebook - group]]</nowiki> 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.orkut.com/Main#Community.aspx?cmm=90125388|Orkut]]</nowiki> - unused

=== Meetings ===
We plan to have frequent IRC meetings, see <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-IrcMeetings]]</nowiki> for more information.

We had other meetings, some online and some ''in real life'', see <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-PastMeetings]]</nowiki>.

=== Belgium specific documentation ===
Looking for documentation on Belgian topics, see
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CategoryBelgianDocumentation|The CategoryBelgianDocumentation category on the community documentation for Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-nl.org/|Nederlandstalige Ubuntu documentatie wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/belgique|Page belgique sur le wiki Ubuntu-fr]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de | Deutsche Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>

Wanting to share your knowledge of Belgian specific topics, see BelgianTeam/BeDocs for information on how and where to do it.

=== Belgian press ===
* Belgian Team Press Releases : <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-PressReleases]]</nowiki>

=== Education and courses ===
* <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Education| Activities, Material, Courses]]</nowiki>

=== Localized installer USB ===
Download the ISO at <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-LocalizedUSB]]</nowiki> !

=== Activities, Fair booths & Events ===
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-be.org/en/calendar|Agenda on website]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/TeamReports |Monthly Reports]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu Release party's <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-ReleaseParty]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-be volunteers participate in most of the Dipro computer fairs: <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-ComputerFairs]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-be was present at <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-2011-FoireDuLibre-LLN-2011-04-06 | The Foire du Libre in Louvain-la-Neuve]]</nowiki> on 06/04/2011 and at REWICS-Charleroi in <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-2012-Rewics-2012-04-18 | 2012]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/2011/Rewics-2011-05-04 | 2011]]</nowiki> 
* Ubuntu-be and the Digital Week : <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-DigitalWeek-2012 | 2012]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-DigitalWeek-2011 | 2011]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-DigitalWeek-2010 | 2010]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-be was present at Fosdem 2012, <nowiki>[[Fosdem-2011 | Fosdem 2011]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[Fosdem-2010 | Fosdem 2010]]</nowiki>, Fosdem 2009, <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Fosdem-Brussels_2008 | Fosdem 2008]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Fosdem-Brussels_2007 | Fosdem 2007]]</nowiki>
* Software Freedom Day <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-SoftwareFreedomDay-2011 | 2011]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-SoftwareFreedomDay-2010 | 2010]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-SoftwareFreedomDay-2009 | 2009]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-be was present at the International Fair <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Accenta_2009 | Accenta 2009 ]]</nowiki> in Fanders Expo - Ghent on 19-20/09/2009 and at the <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Reva-Gent_2009-04-23-24-25 | Reva 2009 fair]]</nowiki> in Fanders Expo - Ghent on 23-25/04/2009
* Ubuntu Release Actions <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-ReleaseActions]]</nowiki>

=== Material ===
* inventory <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Eventbox]]</nowiki>
* availability of <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-PromotionMaterial]]</nowiki>
* where to buy a laptop without Operating System, or with Ubuntu installed <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-OsLessLaptopShops]]</nowiki>

=== Support points ===
Ubuntu-be.org volunteers show their enthousiasm to potential converts by distributing CD's, giving demonstrations and helping to install Ubuntu for the first time.
Those volunteers registered themselves as support points, you can find them at: http://ubuntu-be.org/en/supporters
* the volunteer manual can be found at: http://ubuntu-be.org/en/content/513/support-point-manual

=== TODO ===
For a current TODO list, please take a look at the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-belgium | Ubuntu-be Bugsection on the Launchpad]]</nowiki>.
For a list with ideas concerning the Website and the Wiki you can view / post ideas and brainspins at the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/Website/Overview | Website Overview page]]</nowiki>.
--------
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryBelgianTeam
