{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu needs to gain more visibility in Belgium. It's important that people hear a couple of time of Ubuntu before they actually try it. Therefore, the 6 month release is ideal to do a "larger scale" action around Ubuntu.

== Train station actions ==

During the Sunday evening there is a massive flow of students that pass through the train stations of Belgian student city's. It wouldn't be a big effort to do an action there, compared to the number of people we can reach. Eg. A train coming from Brussels to Leuven contains more than 600 students.
The idea would be to:
* (1) come with a projector, and project a presentation or a ubuntu desktop on a wall or screen at the exit. 
* (2) Flyer at the exit of the train station.
* (3) Add your idea here

=== Leuven, Sunday evening 21/10/07 ===

==== Participants ====

* FrancoisCauwe
* AnneliesBollen 
* ChristopheVDP
* MarkVDB (Later)
* RobVanDyck
* Add your name here

==== Needed material ====

* -A lot- of flyers OK
* T-shirts
* burned install CD
* screencasts: http://screencasts.ubuntu.com/
* projector(OK, ROB), and screen?
* Power generator? very long power cable?
* Laptop with nice desktop (and compiz), for showing off :-)

=== Leuven, Sunday evening 28/10/07 ===

==== Participants ====

* FrancoisCauwe
* AnneliesBollen
* ChistianB (TBC)

=== Liège, Sunday 21/10/07 ===
 
==== Participants ====
* PierreVorhagen
* Reginald Ratz (snulkid)
* g-traxx (ubuntu-fr active member)
* Yorrit

Action was successfull with ~350 flyers distributed, by getting out (it was a rainy day :-|) at main train arrival times. Flyers were pointing to ubuntu-be and next <nowiki>[[http://www.bawet.org/article.php3?id_article=128|Gutsy Install Party]]</nowiki> in Liege; they were offered by <nowiki>[[http://www.bawetic.be|Bawetic]]</nowiki> asbl/NPO.

==== Needed material ====

* -A lot- of flyers (in french)
* T-shirts

=== Ghent, Sunday 21/10/07 ===
No further details known.
