{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''When? Where? What?'''

*** When ? 05/09/2010
*** Where ? Ghent ...
*** What ? Dipro Micro Mega Market Computerbeurs http://www.dipro.be/benl/micro_mega_market.. 

'''Participants'''

*** Kenneth
*** Joris (tot 11u - 11u30)
*** Mike Morraye
*** Matthias
*** JanC
*** ?

Fees

*** ...: 

Practical

*** IRC meeting for coordination: proposed ... at ...h.. on IRC #ubuntu-be
*** Promotion of the booth within Ubuntu-be community, in the area of the fair and at the entrance of the fair ?
*** Think about a good setup of the booth !

'''Stuff needed'''

paper, attachments, various

*** Banner Belgian LoCo Team : (kw)
*** Posters 
***** "Ubuntu highway to freedom is now open" (kw)
***** "Free your PC" (kw)
***** "Linux-Tux":  (kw)
*** Flyers 2009 Ubuntu-be :  (kw)
*** Flyer use of live-CD :  (kw)
*** Sheet Informatie-Information_Ubuntu.odt :  (kw)
*** Pen's : (kw)
*** Tablecloth :  (kw)
*** 1 inflatable Tux : (kw)
*** x figuurtjes Tux :  (kw)
*** Contribution urn :  (kw)
*** Duct tape and other buro material :  (kw)
*** 1 long power extension cords :  (kw)
*** 3 power strips (4 sockets minimum) :  (kw)
*** anti-theft cables for laptops : (kw)

electronics

*** CD's (   originals +   copies +   blanco) +    paper bags:  (?)
*** PC : (1 present, kw)
*** laptops : (2 present, kw)
*** netbook : 
*** additional flat screen s: (1 present, kw)
*** eID card reader :  (?)
*** beamer + screen : (?)
*** Audio set : (?)
*** External cd writer : (1 present, kw)
*** ...
*** continuous slideshow Ubuntu_short_presentation-NL.odp, how to install 10.04LTS :  (see wiki))
*** ISO's on an USB stick (Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Alternate, 64 bits, netbook, etc..) : (?)
*** Possibility of WiFi connection : yes
*** ... 

What else?

*** Digital camera :  (?)
*** candies : (kw)
*** fresh drink : (kw) 

'''Report'''

It was a sunny day. Since it was going to be the first Dipro event of the season, I was expecting a lot of visitors. Thanks to Jan, I already had a lot of original CDs available, so we did not need to burn a lot of CDs upfront. I arrived at the fair very early and had the chance to setup everything accordingly. Later, Joris, Jan and Mike arrived. Matthias, unfortunately did not show up. The portables from the Ghent event box were installed with Ubuntu and Kubuntu 10.04, which is at the time of writing the latest version. Since 10.10 is arriving, we had the chance to give away _all_ the original CDs. We distributed 50+ original CDs.
As I already said, it was a sunny day, and probably due to the nice weather a lot of people were visiting other places. Normally the morning is very busy, but this time it was fairly quiet. The afternoon was very quiet as well. I think there were lesser interesting exhibitors as well. In the past years, the Dipro fair has evolved from a pure computer towards a computer / photography and hobbyist fair. So the people attending the fair are very diverse, which makes it interesting.
The booth next to us was occupied with people from PCVO. Apparently they teach Linux courses, but they use SuSE as their preferred distribution. Nothing wrong with that, in my opinion, as long as it is Linux. After all, there isn't much difference between Ubuntu or SuSE (I am an old time SuSE user).
We were able to sell a t-shirt which eventually resulted in a positive balance of €20. Since it's a lot of small change, I will keep this amount in the contribution urn (Jan is my witness).
So, in short, a positive result, with positive chats, but unfortunately, not a lot of people. I think/hope the next event will be much more successful.
