{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== People present themselves ===

* Christophe Vandeplas ("chri"), IT worker, Waterloo & Wijgmaal, nl, fr
* François Cauwe ("Swaps"), mechatronics student, Ronse & Leuven, Christophe's cousin, nl, fr
* David Geens ("sniper_david"), ?, nl, de, Neu-Moresnet,  promote ubuntu, small support
* Frans Geens, David's father, nl, de, Neu-Moresnet, promote ubuntu, small support
* Pieter Verledens ("Gunirus", "Mehercle"), student, Antwerpen, nl, computer fair volunteer Mechelen
* Michel Daggelinckx, internet provider helpdesk agent, nl, running linux for 10 years, convincing his boss to sponsor Ubuntu cd
* Mark Van den Borre, classical guitarist, ubuntu-be.org, nl_be team lead
* Wouter Horre, nl_be, working at kul, linux user since 5,5 year, like ubuntu because it just works.
* Kevin Elaerts, nl, student
* Bart Broeckx, army NATO pipeline, Hasselt & Leuven, nl, ubuntu-nl.org forum moderator, organises Hasselt fair
* Pierre Buyle ("mongolito404"), Namur university, Namur, fr, cms admin, user map development
* Adriaan Leijnse ("aidy"), Brussels, nl, convert family members, computer fair volunteer Gent & Leuven
* Alexandre Ficelle, fr, nl, longtime free software user, Ubuntu and Debian, wants to get more involved
* Annelies Bollen ("lisje"), IT student, long time free software user, good friend of Christophe
* (unfortunately not) Guido Dom, nl, Nieuwpoort, interlocking bad luck & misunderstandings 

=== Computer fairs ===
==== Current situation ====

Mark (nl_be) and Cedric (fr_be) have been organising most of the Dipro fairs. This was good for bootstrapping, but there's about 10 coming up this semester. Mark suggests we try to find people from each region to be responsible to organize them. 

==== One responsible per fair ====

About ten fairs are coming up the next semester where our presence would make a difference. We need better distribution of the workload involved. One person responsible per fair would be ideal. Building on experience, Mark has created a set of hints and guidelines for running a computer fair booth: LoCoComputerFairHowto (additions welcome!). 

Who wants to be responsible for which fair?
* Leuven: Annelies
* Hasselt/Genk: Bart
* Antwerpen: Michel Daggelinckx
* northwest: Jan Claeys?
* Gent: ?
* Charleroi: Cedric Janssens
* Namur: ?
* Liège: ?
* TODO: Ask the list for volunteer fairs booth organisers.

==== Insurance ====

Do we need insurance for people or hardware?
Christophe suggests we can do without. It's not that expensive, but the cost is non-neglegible, and it means extra paper work. He suggests minimising our risk. Securing volunteer hardware against theft where possible is a first step. This idea is accepted.
Mark suggests getting cheap/donated/second hand hardware in the event box to further minimise the risk.  

==== Event box ====

The event box is a box with stuff needed accumulated over time: flyers, power cords, extension cables, a4 displays, ... Extra things we really need in that box:
* 6x1.5m table cloth. We need this to cover the butt ugly dipro tables.
* sturdy plastic/textile banner. We need this because Toni Van Remortel 's paper printed banners (thanks, been really useful) are really starting to show their age now.
* computer hardware.
** If we don't take insurance, we need to minimise the risk of getting volunteer hardware damaged or stolen.
** Not all machines need to be fast, but we need at least one "fast" computer to demonstrate things at normal speed, the usability of Ubuntu, the look and feel, etc. See also LoCoComputerFairHowto.
** We need to be able to put the equipment in the box. So we should prefer light equipment: TFT instead of CRT, ...
** We need to get this on a minimal budget, with donations preferred over sponsorship preferred over buying stuff.

* TODO WHO? Get a sturdy plastic/textile banner with logo printed on it (+- 150€) and a table cloth. >> Annelies: I agree to manage this together with the collection computer hardware 
* TODO Annelies will be responsible for getting the needed computer hardware. She might have a computer she could donate.

Logistics. The person responsible for a fair booth should make sure the box gets there and then gets to the responsible for the next fair.
* Gnome has a very large box they just put in the mail to transfer hardward from place to place. Could we do the same thing? Maybe we should have a central place for the box. Around Brussels? People from all parts of the country go regularly to Brussels.
* TODO Michel works near NATO. He will ask his boss if he can store the box at the office.
* after meeting note: ups is < 30€ for 3 boxes totalling 30kg within Belgium. May be interesting for faraway locations. -- Mark
* TODO Christophe: We should make a list of everything that's inside the box. Every time, we check the list to make sure everything's still in it. And refill it with what's been used (candy, flyers, cd's,...) or gone missing (hardware,...).

==== Communication training ====

Mark asks about the interest in communication training. We are all geeks, or at least most of us. We might have difficulties explaining our message to people, convincing them. Mark is a guitarist, he works with performers. He thinks some companies might be interested in sponsoring "hands-on" communication training. 

François, Annelies, Wouter, Alexandre, Mark and more people are interested in such training.

TODO: Mark will then look into it and report to the mailing list.

=== Vista press attention ===

Vista is coming out at the end of January. This means a wave of press attention for operating systems, also for Microsoft competitors. We should use that to our advantage. One example of other people doing this is Guy Duportail from Linux-service.be sponsoring an ad. What could we do to draw attention?

Vista is about mainstream media. We should target De Standaard, Het Nieuwsblad, Le Soir, VRT, RTBF, etc.

==== Press release ====

Mark has done it in the past, and is interested in doing it again. It's best if two people do it together. One begins to write, sends it to the other who corrects it, sends it back, etc.

* TODO Mark will write a press release and communicate with someone else about it. In about a week, he'll have a draft PR in NL ready. He will ask for input from an experienced pro journalist the next week.
* TODO Mark will look for someone (AlexFicelle) to translate the NL press release to FR.

==== Our message ====
Christophe asks about what message we want to convey in our pr. Do we want to compare Ubuntu to Vista?
* Vista is full of DRM restrictions.
* Frans notices it is a resource hungry monster.
* Do we want to contrast the freedom Ubuntu gives to the restrictions Vista enforces?
* Do we want to talk usability, no virus, easy installation of software?
* Contrasting Ubuntu to Vista might backfire. JanC notices that no DRM means that you can't play most music that you buy on-line. In the eyes of some, that's actually a disadvantage.
* JanC would present it as an alternative for some computer users. 
* Mark notices David and Goliath always work with press.

Conclusion: Let's *focus* on Ubuntu, and not compare to Vista too much. If the product is good, it should sell itself.

==== Contact list ====

Mark has a media contact list. He used it for the release of Dapper. He can't share it with us because of problems with confidentiality.

What about timing!? Deadline for Vista is January 30 (according to Wikipedia).

TODO Mark will coordinate the press contacts.

==== Inviting press ====

Our fair booths are an interesting place to invite journalists, especially audio/video journalists. Two examples:
* At one fair, Mark fell in love with an old couple (77 y o). They knew about Ubuntu, they actually use it. They are a very cute couple. They found Ubuntu really easy (install software with a click, etc.).
* An African guy recognized the word Ubuntu as an African word.

TODO Mark will invite one or more journalists to the fair that day.

=== VLOD ===

Guy Duportail donated a booth at http://vlod.be, the Flemish Education Fair (for a lot of money!). It's right next to Microsoft, he has specifically asked for this :). 

==== Workshop ====
We have the possibility to run a workshop there, application deadline: end of next week. Subject ideas?
* Mark suggests thin clients. It's very interesting for schools, and he's got experience with it in a school context.
** Jan Claeys suggests demoing thin clients loggin onto a Windows terminal server to demonstrate how existing applications are not lost.
* learning platforms (dokeos,...?)
* educational applications bundled with edubuntu
* Contact Canonical for help? Mark has met the responsable person at Canonical. We would benefit from the experience of someone used to selling education stuff.

We need (soon-to-be-)teachers as volunteers. Vrijesoftware@klascement.net is a good starting point to find them. 

==== Lesson plan ====
* Mark suggests creating a lesson plan about software freedom with Ubuntu as an example, to be distributed at the booth. Think something similar to lesson plans about environmental issues (acid rain,...), readily usable for teachers in their class.
* Alex's girlfriend Bénédicte has quite some experience with making lessons plans. She has been a teacher in the past (and also a computer-class teacher in primary school) and is using ubuntu at home. She might be interested to help with that kind of lesson plans. She could make a lesson plan that we could translate to Dutch for VLOD.
* Alex mentions François Schoubben could be an interesting person to contact too. He's an Ubuntu volunteer who teaches mathematics, computer science and other at a secondary school (http://www.indse.be/) in Bastogne. He tries to sensibilize children and other teachers about the Good Cause.
* Mark mentions his father who is a primary school teacher and IT coordinator in a school that uses Debian desktops in every classroom.

* TODO François C will coordinate VLOD. He will send in the workshop application form and contact Richard Weideman at Canonical. 
* TODO Alex will ask his girlfriend Bénédicte if she's interested.

=== Newsletter ===

At the fairs, we've subscribed +- 100 people to an ubuntu-be.org that doesn't exist yet. This channel is too valuable to let rest for too long. Canonical won't provide us with a second mailing list. We'll have to host it ourselves. Some results from the discussion:

* We need to look at how other communities are doing this. Frans mentions how ubuntu-de.org already has a PDF newsletter.
* We should try to focus on regular users, not ICT persons.
* We don't want to overdo ourselves. Let's start with translations of new Ubuntu version press releases every six months, and maybe upcoming and past event announcements in between.
* JanC asks Why not also (maybe later) a newsletter for professionals?
* We could have a responsible person, but coordinate the writing with the wiki and/or gobby sessions.
* Mark suggests launching a "planet", an aggregation of ubuntu related blog posts from Belgium.
* What language would we use? Mix both languages?
* Blogging about a fair after we have been there might give more of a community feeling.
* Non technical persons don't read blogs, except when they find them by chance from searching on the Internet or when linked from a magazine or newsletter.
* Pierre notices that http://gmane.org archives mailing, provides RSS feed for mailing and is free. If we have a "user" oriented mailing list, it can be aggregated on a "planet" website for free.

TODO ? will setup mailman infrastructure for the newsletter.

=== RecuPC ===

Time lacking. Subject skipped.

=== Formal organisation? ===

Membership, administration, legal stuff to respect.

==== Feitelijke vereniging/Association de fait or asbl/vzw? ====
Do we really want/need a format structure for Ubuntu-be? What (dis)advantages would that bring? Christophe explains about two kinds of associations:
* Association de fait/feitelijke vereniging. The directors are legally responsible. If we do something in the name of the association, the directors will be held responsible for what happens. If something is organised we can take an insurance for 'legal responsibilities' (or whatever it is called :-). 
* VZW/ASBL requires statutes, a lot of head-ache organization, accounting, formal stuff, etc. Too much for us? Insurance is cheaper for vzw/asbl than for us.

We agree association de fait/feitelijke vereniging is the best form we can take for the moment. 

==== Taks descriptions ====
Right now, lots of information about who does what is floating about the collective memory without being written down. We need that written down.

TODO Everyone who is currently doing something for ubuntu-be.org should help to complete <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Responsibility]]</nowiki>.

==== Bank accounts ====

This has been discussed on the mailing-list. Mark and Cedric will open an account at Argenta for ubuntu-be.org. The account should not be able to go below 0. Every transaction will be public to the extent possible without harming privacy regulations.

Current balance as reported to the mailing list: 42,5 € (Mark) + 9€ François Schoubben.

TODO Mark and Cedric will open the bank account.

=== Donations ===
If we want to do bigger projects, like pressing a localised cd for feisty+1, we could apply for a project account at Fondation Roi Baudouin/Koning Boudewijn Stichting. They enable de facto organisations like ubuntu-be.org to receive tax deductible donations from both companies and individuals. Going through this process takes time though, so we should really discuss this at a next meeting. 

=== Development ===

Pierre is working on the support map points map. He's looking for people to help, review, test, etc.
Currently, he has the same features as the current map. He's working on letting people edit the information they entered.
The code is PHP, but is very clean. Wouter will try to have a look at it.
PHP was chosen initially so it could be ported to other locoteam.

==== Code status ====
Data back-end (insert/update/delete)
* Supporter profiles
* CD, Demo and install help request
Web front-end
* Supporters list and map with basic search
* Supporter registration
* CD, Demo and install help request

==== Next steps ====
* Supporter edition front-end (WIP should be done in one or two weeks)
* Test/fix languages support
* Translate to french and dutch
* Enhance map and list
* Enhance search options
* Find and fix bugs

==== How to help ====
If you have some time
* Test the beta website at http://ubuntumapbeta.lusis.be (FIRST ask mongolito404@gmail.com by mail or jabber if this is the most recent code).
* Report bugs at https://launchpad.net/support.points.map/+bug
If you have more time
* Fix bugs reported at https://launchpad.net/support.points.map/+bug
* Enhance existing or add new features from https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/SupportPointsSpec.
* Ask Pierre for help for "local" test/dev installation.

TODO Wouter Horre will look into helping out Pierre a bit, as will François and Annelies after their exams.

=== Delegation of tasks ===
Mark has in the past taken responsibility for many things. Some tasks (fair organisation) have already been delegated. See <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Responsibility]]</nowiki>. An important item on next meeting's agenda will be to discuss further reorganisations where necessary. 

=== Next meeting ===
Next meeting at the ubuntu-be.org booth at http://fosdem.org , Sunday 2007/02/27 at 14:00 pm.

There is a potential problem with manning the booth we are running there. We keep this meeting on the agenda until further notice.
