{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Sysadmin ===
* easy to install and maintain:
** no separate email system needed
** no exotic dependencies
** Debian Sarge package is a plus

* gather experiences of other user networks
** profit driven customer support centers
** non-profit customer support centers

=== Use cases ===

Tom hears about Ubuntu and wants to try it. He learns about the existance of the ubuntu-be.org support network. He asks Wim, an ubuntu-be.org volunteer from his neighbourhood, for an Ubuntu installation set and installation help for his laptop. Wim proposes him a date and time for a meeting. Tom agrees. They meet. Wim gives Tom gets an official installation CD, installation help and adequate answers to questions popped up. He is now a happy beginning Ubuntu user.

=== Functional requirements ===

* ticket attachments: screenshots, config files, small videos,...

* user can assign ticket to individual support point

* simple, referencable urls
* email interface to the system
* (optional) phone interface to the system

* horizontal escalation: not answered within time limit =>
** auto pass to general queue
** auto pass to nearby support point

* statistics:
** how many questions
** how fast answered
** how many escalations
** how many back and forths per question

* precooked answers:
** admins approve new answers
** comments like on php.net

* publish help desk scenario tree

* internal queue for ubuntu-be.org administration

 ! integration with ubuntu-nl.org, ubuntu-fr.org documentation systems

* priority:
** location bound questions > not location bound
** public questions > private ones
