{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* attendees: DieterVanderfaeillie, FrançoisCauwe, AlexandreLaurent, KoenWybo, ChristopheVandePlas, KoenVervloesem, KevinElaerts

=== current situation ===
* Problems:
** Most teachers are looking for 'software' instead of 'functionality'. There are two kinds of software being used in education:
*** Specific ICT software (like OOo Writer, OOo Calc, ...)
*** Didactic software (like Geogebra, software to learn languages, ...)
** Most teachers are educated in a specific environment (Mostly M$)
** Lack of documentation:
*** teacher manuals
*** student books
** Lack of support for teachers:
*** people to count on
*** teacher manuals
** Open-Source software is still not very known in schools
* Positive initiatives:
** François knows a professor Herman Bruyninckx who knows a lot about Open-source software and education
** Hogeschool Gent is giving OOo lessons to the future teachers
** Some schools are working on OOo manuals
** Some school use Open-Source (Linux/Ubuntu) already:
*** Sancta-Maria Instituut Aarschot
*** TSM Mechelen (ICT) => Edubuntu, kubuntu
*** Don Bosco Hoboken (ICT) => Ubuntu, ubuntu server 

=== Possible solutions ===
* Open-Source is still not very known in schools
** target: principles, teachers (, students)
** solution: will be addressed in the "Promotional Materials" session
* Support for schools
** target: teachers
** solution(s):
*** A introduction booklet, some sort of Quick Start guide
*** Enhance into a big manual, with a teacher manual (with teacher training)
      Could this be done in some sort of wiki format?
      KoenWybo shared his experience on this way of "giving information". He has a religion-education website. And started by sharing approx 20 courses there. Teachers however didn't give any input. At some time he closed downloads and only let teachers get the stuff IF they gave input themselves. The amount of docs grew exponentially. Something to keep in mind.
*** Teaching teachers about Open-Source in the extra hours they get to stay up to date (bijscholing)

=== Actions ===
* Manuals: Koen would have some courses and a little community, but wants to expand the community.
** François has a list with all the Windows software that is used in the education. It could be something good to make an alternatives list. It's in the VLOD/wiki 
    The flemish government already spend some time to make a list of some software; But the list is not specific enough. 
* Make connections with Guimardstraat (VVKSO), RAGO, Klascement, ...
* VLOD fair for 2009?? planning around april-may-june 
** Dieter will plan a meeting (contact other schools for testimonials)
** François will contact Guy about this.
* Koen is giving sessions about open-source:  ICT-dag (Klascement), linuxbabbel, local computerclub.
