{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Summary ===
For the second time, Indymedia.be is organising an Ubuntu release/install party. The party is open to everyone who wishes to find our more about Ubuntu, wants to install it on his or her computer, or just want to come by and have a cup of coffee and talk FOSS.

See also: announcement page on Indymedia.be: http://www.indymedia.be/nl/node/24305.

=== Goals ===
* Present the new Ubuntu version: Gutsy Gibbon 7.10.
* Meet and greet with computer enthusiasts, people who are interested in installing and/or using Ubuntu, members of the Indymedia.be community.
* To install the new Ubuntu release.
* Mark Van den Borre of Ubuntu-be will give a presentation about Ubuntu Gutsy.
* Last time about 20 people were present (see http://www.indymedia.be/en/node/8973). We're hoping for a similar (or better) turnout this time.
* Have a good time, help people on the way using Ubuntu/Linux and possibly other free/open source software.

=== When? Where? ===
* Date: October 21 2007
* Time: 13.00
* Place: Indymedia.be, Haachtsesteenweg/Chaussée de Haecht 51, 1210 Brussels
          Near le Botanique (Botanical gardens)

=== Comments ===
More info? Contact: bruno@indymedia.be
