{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The ubuntu-be community is a team of diverse people that advocate the use of Ubuntu trough both professionals as private means.

Various people trough-out the country have volunteered to take up the role as a support-point for helping install and/or troubleshooting people in need of assistance.

A map of these support points can be found on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-be.org/en/supporters|the supporters page]]</nowiki> on our website. 

We represents ubuntu on various events such as FOSDEM and computer fairs.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - (''Fri Jan 24 2014'')
* '''Team Contact''' - Mike Morraye <mike@morraye.be>
* '''Membership''' - 1199 registered users to our website and 46 Active members on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-be/+members#active|our launchpad page]]</nowiki>.
* '''Launchpad Team''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-be
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-be on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-be on freenode

=== Roadmap ===

* Continue maintaining good discussions on IRC and mailing lists 
* Continue providing support as a community.
* Launch party - Have great Ubuntu 14.04 launch parties.
* Distribution - Distribute ubuntu cd's and USB sticks trough student clubs & hacker spaces.
* Website - Upgrade to a newer Drupal version.
* Attract more active members.

=== Experience ===

* Website move - FSF France did hoste the website but disassembled the host. The community provided a new server and transferred the website. 
* Install parties were held <nowiki>[[http://www.dewereldmorgen.be/artikels/2013/05/20/installeer-linux-op-je-computer-op-repareerfeest-vooruit|1]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-nl.org/promotie-40/ubuntu-install-party-6-mei-2012-brussel-vanaf-14-uur/|2]]</nowiki>, etc...
* Fosdem - We were present at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fosdem/2013|fosdem 2013]]</nowiki>
* USB-sticks - Made ubuntu-be images that are supported on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/LocalizedUSB|Ubuntu-Be USB-sticks]]</nowiki>
* Several city-specific teams met for drinks and talks 
* Had a lot of fun

Some of the more active team that were extremely active in the community are now more occupied with private life, thus not able to be as active in t loco-team as they used to.

This is noticeable as it is not always as clear on who's taking care of the reserving of booths.

There is room for improvement in the structure of Ubuntu-BE
