{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Event box ==

We need your help! We are assembling ten event boxes for local Ubuntu volunteer teams. Well, at least the core of it, things you can't expect volunteers to provide.

The idea is to create an easily transportable setup. The local volunteer team can then demonstrate Ubuntu at local events using this kit without needing a car. A huge improvement over the "bring your own and hope it doesn't break" and "you can use my stuff, it's only a 100 km drive away" of the past 15 fairs. When not in use at an event, the equipment could be used in a local community project.

Have a look at our wish list for donations below. If you can contribute something useful, please contact contact@ubuntu-be.org or ubuntu-be@lists.ubuntu.com (the ubuntu-be.org mailing list).

Thank you!

the ubuntu-be.org team

== Goal - Progression ==

Ten boxes, one for each of
* West-Vlaanderen => Brugge-Ostend (2009)
* Gent => Ghent (2009)
* Antwerpen => Antwerp (2009)
* Leuven => Mechelen (2009)
* Limburg => Hasselt-Genk (2009)
* Charleroi => in process (2011)
* Namen
* Luik
* two spares
== Current status - Where is everything? ==
=== Brugge, Jan Claeys (last update: ?) ===
** 3 laptop IBM R51 (11.10) Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 1.70GHz, 1GB RAM, 60 GB HD 
** 1 large LCD screen (23")
** official CD's 
** 2 laptop locks
** posters 2008 "De weg naar de vrijheid is open"

=== Ostend, Jean Huberts  (last update: 26/03/2012) ===
** 1 laptop lock
** posters 2009 "Free your PC"(Nl, 240 ex.) and flyers 2009(Nl 100 ex.), flyers 2011 (200 ex.)
** 3 white dubbel boards (70x50 cm) for posters and banners

=== Antwerp, Bram Kortleven (last update: ?) ===
** 1 laptop Acer Aspire 1710 (10.04)
** 1 laptop Acer Travelmate 803LCi (10.04)
** 1 laptop Dell Inspiron 4100 (10.04) 
** 1 laptop lock
** 3 white dubbel boards (70x50 cm) for posters and banners
** 2 tablecloths
** posters 2009 "Free your PC" and flyers 2009

=== Ghent, Mike ? (last update: ?) ===
** 1 pc + screen
** 1 laptop Acer Travelmate 4001LMi
** 1 PC Pentium IV 2.60 GHZ, no screen, no keyboard
** 3 white dubbel boards (70x50 cm) for posters and banners
** posters 2009 "Free you PC" and flyers 2009 
** 2 tablecloths  
** 4x A4 stands
** 3x A6 (?) stands

=== Mechelen, Noël Rogghe  (last update: ?) ===
Currently this is held by Frank Van Damme (Leuven). 
** 1 PC All-in-one (Celeron(R) CPU 2.40GHz)
** 3 white dubbel boards (70x50 cm) for posters and banners
** posters 2009 "Free you PC" and flyers 2009 
** 1 15" of 17" (?) flat screen, resolution 1024x768
** glass jar for gifts
** +- 20 blank CD-R's
** +- 10 10.04 LTS 
** 1 server edition 10.10 (server ed. is always amd64)
** B&W flyers ubuntu-be.org (a whole stack of them)
** a few flyers HCC vlaanderen
** +- 30 color flyers "ubuntu: eenvoudig, veilig en gratis"
** folding cardboard flyer stand
** 3 plastic A4 exposition stands for paper sheets
** paper cd hoesje: +- 50
** a few dozen A4 information sheets about how to use the cdrom
** a few stickers, handy for labeling our material

=== Limburg (Hasselt-Genk), Claudio Mammarella (last update: 26 september 2012) ===
** 1 PC P4 2.8Ghz 1gb DVDRW + usb keyboard and mouse
** 1 PC AMD 1.8Ghz 700MB + keyboard & mouse
** 1 PC AMD Dualcore 2ghz 2gb + keyboard & mouse
** 1 external Hardrive for creating ubuntu-be ISO
** 2 sets Speakers
** 1 tablestand for 1x ubuntu logo + 1x monitor + 2x Netbooks
** 1 switch 10/100 8port with cables
** 1 wireless accespoint
** 1 wireless router 150n
** 4 black table cloths
** 2 Laptop security cables
** Network cables, powercords,...
** 300 flyers ubuntu (new edition)
** ubuntu-be usb-sticks with ubuntu-be iso installed

=== Leuven, Mark Van den Borre ===
** 3 screens CRT 17"
** 250 posters 2008 "De weg naar de vrijheid is open"

== Wish list ==
* 30 laptops with:
** >= 256 Mb ram
** broken battery no problem
** no must, but would be great to have:
** intel chipset
** cd writer
** capable of 3d effects
* 30 mice
** no must, but would be great to have:
*** scroll wheel
*** usb connection
* 10 high volume speaker sets with subwoofer
