{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe BelgianTeam/2011/FebruaryWikiCleanup here.

==== Actions done on 2011/02/03 ====
* Create <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Index]]</nowiki> to list all our pages
* Delete years-old <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-TODO]]</nowiki>. All the info on the page was either obsolete or too-wide. These were valid idea but they have been there for years, obviously a year-old TODO list doens't help getting things done.
* Delete empty/death pages:
** BelgianTeam/BrainStorm
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Calendar]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Captorials]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-HardwareBuyingSpec]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[OsLessLaptopShopsDbDesign]]</nowiki>, great idea but nobody is doing any follow up on that. Reviving the idea on a global scale could be better (need project mngmt/lead skills).
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-LocoDataModel]]</nowiki>, nice model but not very readable
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Planet]]</nowiki>, the planet now lives on the website
** <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-SupportPointsDevFE]]</nowiki>
* Normalize events page names to BelgianTeam/<EventType>/[<Location>_]<Date>
* Merge BelgianTeam/Fosdem_2007-02-25 and BelgianTeam/Fosdem_2007-02-25/Report into BelgianTeam/Fosdem/Brussels_2007

==== Identified actions ====

* BelgianTeam/Education/* need some cleaning/refactoring to list what's available and past activities. FAIK there is a lot of idea for education but no dedicated active team so the page should be kept simple (ie. don't create placeholders for wanted/wished content).
* Anyone to revive the and update the BelgianTeam/LocalizedCD project ?
* Link to BelgianTeam/OsLessLaptopShops from website
* Refactor and complete BelgianTeam/Pictures, suggestion for content
** Link to existing galleries (collecting them from event report, etc.)
** Link to external image hosting service (Flickr, etc.)
** Suggest to create freely usable promotional pictures creation (content from BelgianTeam/PhotoSessions could be merged into it)
* Reminder: Please add any Belgium related Ubuntu news to this page: BelgianTeam/PressCoverage. It would be nive to link to this page from the website.
* Refactor existing  PR pages to fit into the BelgianTeam/PressReleases pages
* Contact people on BelgianTeam/Responsibility to check they are still available
* Create a description and task page for the Ubuntu-be.org Web Editors team (like BelgianTeam/Responsibility/EventsTeam and BelgianTeam/Responsibility/FacebookTeam)
* Reminder: Add yourself to BelgianTeam/Skills if you are ready to help, consult it if you need help
