{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== When? Where? ===
* 1 april 2007
   Mechelen
   Nekkerhal, which is located <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=mechelen,+belgium&layer=&ie=UTF8&z=17&ll=51.027428,4.500436&spn=0.003172,0.013561&t=h&om=1|here]]</nowiki>

=== Participants ===
* Pieter
* RoelHuybrechts
* Annelies
* Michel : due to personal problems i'm unable to come to the fair.
* You?

=== Fees ===
* 38 € in fees paid by: ?

=== Stuff needed ===
==== paper, attachments, various ====
* 500 leaflets: what is ubuntu? what is ubuntu-be.org?: Annelies
* 3 A0 posters: ... There are no posters available now ...
* 200 Live-cd's Edgy Eft: Annelies
* newsletter & volunteer lists: Pieter
* tape, scissors, thin rope: Pieter
* tablecloth: Pieter will bring Roel's
* glass bottle (plastic box) for collecting contributions: Roel

What else?

==== electronics ====
* Pieter: I can bring my notebook, with beryl working 100%, i CAN NOT bring my desktop system, i did it last time, and it is too difficult.
* Roel can (and will) bring his notebook with:
** Dapper + Xgl + Beryl
** OR Feisty beta standard + XGL + Desktop Effects (which is Compiz); this is the easiest solution as this is what is installed right now. Installing Beryl is no option as beryl-xgl is not in universe.
* Beamer + screen to project Ubuntu on screen: ?
* 10/100 Mbit Switch for Network connection + WLAN : Pieter
* personal camera: all of us! we need pics!
* Maybe a 2.1 audio set? Just to show off with Rhythmbox and Amarok... Pieter... Maybe!

What else?
