{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Summary ===
Together with the <nowiki>[[http://www.bxlug.be|BxLUG]]</nowiki> and every other associations who want to help with the promotion of free software, Ubuntu-be is invited to be present at the Wetenschap-ExpoSciences days organized by <nowiki>[[http://www.jsb.be/|Jeunesses Scientifiques]]</nowiki>) in Brussels, Heyzel. This will take place on '''March 13 and 14, 2009'''. Please ask questions about this activity to the ubuntu-be.org mailing list. 

This is a bilingual (French and Flemish) fair where students, from 6 to 18, are proposed to present scientific projects they have prepared during the year, usually in their schools with the help of their science teachers. As of March 3, 2007, more than 1300 students representing more than 250 schools had registered.

These students are usually very interested in technology and very active. They could be offered one Ubuntu CDROM per project, and be explicitelly invited to attend presentations prepared for them.

=== Public ===

The public we want to address and touch is composed of

* the students who show their projects,
* the visitors 
*** the students who come with their schools and parents,
*** the parents of both types of students,
* the science teachers 

=== Schedule ===
The fair (week xx):
* Friday 13 March 2009
* Saturday 14 Marc 2009

=== Planning ===
* Week 1-5: contact people that have experience with FS in schools. Start looking for bundles.
* Week 5: We get to know if we can do the workshop, boost the work.
* Week 5-8: Look for possibility and think of ideas and work for them.
* Week 8 (Begin): Decide what we will do actually, write it up.
* Week 8: Communicate on some mailing lists that we will be present at VLOD, like on vrijesoftware.klascement.be
* Week 8-9: Prepare last things
* Week 1-10: Find people that want to help & look for sponsors

=== Fair ===

==== Ideas ====

* Material: 
** Create flyers with map on the backside with our stand.
** Create flyers with link to the documents, provided on the stand.
** Big banner

==== Press message ====
We could have the possibility to publish a press message in the fair bundle. Before ???

=== Workshop ===
The workshops could be organised. TO be confirmed.

==== Ideas ====
* Invite someone from ubuntu to talk at the workshop? Ask Richard?
* Do a demo about thin clients
* Look for people with real experience with edubuntu en FS?
* Make a bundle with some example of free software in the classroom.
** Create a list of the use of opensource in belgium: <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-VLOD_2007-SchoolsUsingFOSS]]</nowiki>
* Make a bundle about free software education.
** Example bundles: http://ond.vvkso-ict.com/vvksomain/leerplannenindex.asp

==== Application form ====
Title:
<pre>
Edubuntu dans la classe / Edubuntu in de klas
</pre>

Summary:

FR : <pre>
Ubuntu est un système d'exploitation simple pour votre ordinateur, très semblable à Microsoft Windows et Apple Mac OS X. Comme logiciel libre, il peut être librement et gratuitement copié, distribué et adapté. Parmi les applications incluses, on trouve: la suite bureautique complète OpenOffice.org, le navigateur internet Firefox et encore de très nombreux autres logiciels qui seront présentés, et un système convenablement protégé d'origine de la plupart des virus et spyware. Durant les sessions de présentation, de nombreux logiciels seront présentés, ainsi que 
Edubuntu: Ubuntu pour les écoles.
</pre>

NL: <pre>
Ubuntu is een eenvoudig te gebruiken besturingssysteem voor je computer, net zoals Microsoft Windows en Apple Mac OS X. Vrij te kopiëren, verspreiden en aan te passen. Toepassingen inclusief: OpenOffice.org, Firefox, ... en immuun voor virussen en spyware. In deze sessie maakt u kennis met Edubuntu: Ubuntu voor scholen.
</pre>

==== Material at disposal for the workshop ====

Seats for 50 persons.

1 table

2 chairs for the speakers

probably a network connection

=== Summary of the IRC meeting ===

==== 1. Who shall attend and when ? ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''' Friday '''
| ''' Saturday '''
|-
| ''' 13/3/2009 '''
| ''' 14/3/2009 '''
|}

==== 2. Workshop, discuss content: ====

* Demo Programs in edubuntu
** BxLug has a Edubuntu with LTSP ready. Only clients are needed : ltsp-integration can easily be shown
** Show firefox, gimp, gcompris, freemind and openoffice on Windows and Macs as well as Ubuntu
** Kig / Geogebra / DrGeo as good replacement for CabriGeometre
** Kalzium (for chemistry and physics teachers)
** Celestia (Aardrijkskunde)
** KmPlot (functies plotten, en er wat basisbewerkingen op uitoefenen)
** KTouch (kan dienen al vervanger van Typtop, dactylografie)
** etc...

==== 3. Needed material (pc, server,... -> guy can help us with that) ====
* Edubuntu-cd's

* Folders

==== 4. Studyprogram ====

==== 5. Lesson preparation ====

=== Files ===
* Map of the fair: to be received
* <nowiki>[[SchoolsUsingFOSS]]</nowiki>
