{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== When? Where? What? ===
* 14 October 2007
* Kortrijk <nowiki>[[http://www.centrumpottelberg.be/|Bouwcentrum Pottelberg]]</nowiki> (Engelse Wandeling) 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.dipro.be/1/index.htm|Dipro Micro Mega Market Computerbeurs]]</nowiki>

=== Participants ===
* JanClaeys
* Lieven Baes ("yanu")
* Pieter ("Gunirus") 
* Pieter Vande Wyngaerde ("pvandewyngaerde")  (hoogstwaarschijnlijk)
* Stijn Leenknegt ("SpiderPig")
* thijs de laet ("hfsdo")

=== Fees ===
* 38 € in fees paid by: gifts?

=== Pracitical ===
* 9.00: preparation. Be there.
* 10.00: start. The first three hours are the busiest. Try to be there in the morning if you can only afford to spend half a day! 
* 17.00: fair closed 
* 18.00: booth cleaned up; find some place to get a drink... ;)

=== Stuff needed ===
==== paper, attachments, various ====
* Posters {JanClaeys has 1 banner for Ubuntu-BE W-Vl}
* Flyers {JanClaeys}
* Pen's (with cords, to attach to the tables)
* Tablecloth (length about 6 meter?) {Gunirus}
* Power extension cords + power strips.
** 1 verdeeldoos + korte kabel {JanClaeys}
** 2 verdeeldozen, ook korte kabel { Gunirus }
** 2 verdeeldozen (1->3) en (1->4) + lange kabel {pvandewyngaerde}
** 1 verdeeldoos (1->4) {hfsdo}
** er is meer nodig! {yanu}
* 3 Tux figuurtjes { pvandewyngaerde } 
* Candy?
* Contribution urn (!)
* Duct tape
* ...

==== electronics ====
* cd's to burn feisty/gutsy on or already with feisty/gutsy on them + paper bags for them? (JanClaeys has some empty CD-R, more can be bought at the fair)
   PC with 2 burners and the iso's (yanu)
* computers/laptops
** oude Compaq desktop + CRT + tobo + muis (Ubuntu-BE W-Vl)
** oude P3 800 MHz, 512 MiB RAM + 14 Inch Monitor + stereo boxen + tobo + muis - Kubuntu Gutsy RC (pvandewyngaerde)
** laptop met Ubuntu Gutsy, 20" TFT (JanClaeys)
** Brandnew Dell laptop, Kubuntu installed (gutsy) (Gunirus)
** Brandnew Dell laptop, Ubuntu installed (Stijn)
** laptop met kubuntu feisty, 15,4" (hfsdo)
** laptop with gutsy and 2 crt-monitors 17" (yanu)
* Belgian EID Reader (I'll try to get one -- JanClaeys)
* projector (yanu)
* ...

=== What else? ===
* Digital camera! (yanu)
* ...
