{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''When? Where? What?'''

*** 25/10/2009
*** Kemba, Lierselei, 177, Oostmalle
*** Dipro Micro Mega Market Computerbeurs http://www.dipro.be/benl/micro_mega_market 

'''Participants'''

*** Siegfried De Bie (siegie)
*** thijs (hfsdo)
*** Rob (erta02)
*** koen (till 14 h.)

Fees

*** 38 euro 

Practical

    
'''Stuff needed''' 

paper, attachments, various

*** Banner Belgian LoCo Team: 
*** Posters "Ubuntu highway to freedom is now open", "Free your PC", "Linux-Tux":   some posters (from bram) will be brought by Koen
*** Flyers ubuntu:  flyers (from bram) will be brought by Koen, 200 flyers A6 (siegie)
*** Flyer use of live-cd:  50 ex. (siegie)
*** Sheet Informatie-Information_Ubuntu.odt:  50 ex. (siegie)
*** Pen's: 
*** personal badges Ubuntu-booth:   
*** Tablecloth:  
*** 1 inflatable Tux:
*** x figuurtjes Tux:  
*** '''Contribution urn''':  (?)
*** Duct tape and other buro material: (siegie)
*** 1 long power extension cords: 1X 10m and 1X 5m (siegie)
*** 3 power strips (4 sockets minimum)  1 X strip 6 sockets, 1X strip 4 sockets. (siegie)
*** anti-theft cables for laptops (?)

electronics

*** cd's (originals + blanco (hfsdo)) + paper bags:  additional blanco CD's and paper bags can be bought at the fair
*** PC: 
*** laptops: 1 HP (thijs), 1 Dell D830 with kubuntu and ubuntu karmic (siegie), 1 (ertai02) with 9.10
*** netbook: 
*** additional flat screens: (?)
*** eID card reader:  (?)
*** beamer + screen: (?)
*** Audio set: (?)
*** External cd writer: (?)
*** ...
*** continuous slideshow Ubuntu_short_presentation-NL.odp:  (see wiki)
*** iso's on a stick (Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Alternate, 64 bits, etc..): (siegie)
*** Possibility of WiFi connection: ?
*** ... 

What else?

*** Digital camera: thijs
*** candies: (?)
*** fresh drink: (?) 
*** Fee for visitors: (?) 

'''Report'''

The fair was a last minute organization (3 days) due to the initial lack of volunteers, finally we gathered 4 volunteers. it was a small fair but Ubuntu-be was present in this area. 

With such a short notice, we had not enough time to get the flyers, cd's, posters to Oostmalle. Siegfried had printed more than enough flyers, information sheet and live cd manuals. Other material (banner, presentations and tips) were sent by email.

On the fair we had no installation cd's, luckily Rob brought some from home, so we started burning right away. We also bought al 50 cd spindel on the fair lather on. 
A marker for cd's (non smudge) would be handy. 

Financial: 
Donations + €43,46 - (Booth €38, Material : Empty cd's €18, Paper bags €2, copy costs €6)

Balance -€20,54

For a small fair like this one, the level of donation was good.
 

'''Pictures'''

none
