{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Promote Ubuntu-be Events on Website ==
* '''Objective''': Promote events organized or endorsed by Ubuntu-be on the Drupal Website.
* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-belgium/+spec/website-events
* '''Created''': 2009-03-23 by PierreBuyle
* '''Contributors''': PierreBuyle

=== User Stories (sorted by priority) ===
==== Must Have ====
* As a visitor of the website, I want to access to the list of upcoming events presented as a traditional ''calendar view'' so that I can quickly see what's happening soon.
* As a visitor of the website, I want to know where, when and by whom an event is organized.
* As a visitor of the website, I want to access information about an event in Dutch, English, French or German.   
* As an Ubuntu-be member, I want to add information about an upcoming event to the website so that visitor will be aware of the event.
* As an Ubuntu-be member, I want to edit or delete the information about an event I added earlier.
* As an Ubuntu-be Web Editor, I want to add, edit or delete information about any events.

==== Nice to Have ====
* As an Ubuntu-be member, when adding an event, I want the option to automatically link to a wiki page for working on the event organisation (and have a quick link to create a new page based on a template).
* As an Ubuntu-be member, I want to allow other Ubuntu-be members to edit or delete the information about an event I added earlier.
* As an Ubuntu-be member, I want to assert my availability to help with the organization of an announced event.
* As a visitor of the website, I want to assert my intention to attend to an announced event.
* As a visitor, I want to publish report about a past event (possibly with pictures) so that everybody can see how great it was.
* As a visitor, when accessing information about an event, I want to see its location on a map with quick access to instruction on how to get there.
* As a visitor, I want to access the list of upcoming events presented on a single map.

=== Glossary ===
* Event: Any event related to Ubuntu/Linux/FOSS in Belgium (or near).
* Ubuntu-be member: Any member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-be|Belgian Ubuntu team]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu-be Web Editor: Any member of the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-be-webeditor|Ubuntu-be.org Web Editors team]]</nowiki>.

=== Discussion ===
* There is no requirement that the submitter of an event is also its organizer. Actually, it's expected that many events will be added by a reduced team of volunteers acting as relay for events announced on mailing lists, LUGs, direct email, etc.
* ''Must Have'' User Stories are the ''features'' we want to see implemented before considering the work has done. Others are like bonuses, no required but nice to have.

=== Approach ===
* Base features
** The <nowiki>[[http://drupal.org/project/date|Date]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://drupal.org/project/calendar|Calendar]]</nowiki>.
** Or the <nowiki>[[http://drupal.org/project/event|event module]]</nowiki>. There is no current ''stable'' release but <nowiki>[[http://sd.ubuntu-us.org/|Ubuntu South Dakota]]</nowiki> uses a development snapshot without any major issue.
** A ''content type'' for events with fields for
** Organizer
** Location
** start and end date/time
** the kind of event (taxonomy ?)
** Use ''body'' to describe the event
* Attendees using the <nowiki>[[http://drupal.org/project/signup|signup module]]</nowiki> visitors can register to nodes (events are nodes).
* Helpers
** how ?
* Reports
** On the website:
** Create a second ''content-type'' for report
** Use a field to link a report to the event, and vice-versa
** Allow pictures upload for this content-type
** On the wiki
** Auto-generate a link to an event report page on the wiki
