{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== When? Where? ===
* Kortrijk, 18-03-2007

=== Participants ===
* Michael Anckaert
* Ismaël Demiddel
* JanClaeys
* Wesley Stessens: only if I can arrange for someone to pick me up and bring me back home (I live near Turnhout) Can you take the train?
* Lieven Baes

=== Fees ===
 Perhaps we can share the fee with the participants? 

=== Stuff needed ===
Do we have access to the booth box like we had at Kortrijk last November?

What else?

==== electronics ====
* demo desktop machine + 15" CRT monitor: Michael Anckaert
   Pretty slow P3 450Mhz, could be used for presentation (slides or video). Runs faster on Xubuntu. 
* Michael is bringing a beamer but doesn't have access to a screen to project on. Can anyone help?
** I'll bring an old dia-projection screen from my parents -- JanCLaeys
* JanClaeys: laptop with feisty, 20" LCD screen (maybe to be attached to another computer)
* Lieven: desktop P3-1400 with burner, screen 17", laptop edgy, cd's, cables, ...

What else?

=== Remarks ===
If you are coming to this fair, we can have a small key signing party. 

=== User comments ===

* Ismaël Demiddel: I have a big poster (2 x 1,5) with a white back, if there's other possibility, then I can bring it along.
* Wesley Stessens: IF I can come, I will bring my Edgy laptop (1.5 GHz, 256MB ram, Radeon 7500 32MB w/ oss driver) it can serve as a demo machine to make people realize that you don't need the latest hardware to run a composited environment (e.g. fullscreen video + all effects except blur and water) at full speed (if you know what settings to use) ... I also have 5 Ubuntu 6.10 cd's and 8 Ubuntu 6.06 cd's lying around. (I know it's not much, but it's something..)

=== Report ===

Coming soon...

=== Pictures ===

Coming soon... DO NOT FORGET THIS, THIS TIME!
Ismael can bring a camera (video or regular)
