{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===
* OpenID for authentication (drupal: ok, launchpad: https://help.launchpad.net/OpenID)
* Real support for several language (no ugly hack or workaround) (drupal: ok, only hacks to get the ubuntu theme working with multiple languages) 
* Customizable (searchable) fields in user profile (drupal: should be)
* JavaScript users search API (drupal: I don't know)

=== Details ===
==== OpenID Authentication ====
* A user must be able to login using an OpenID identity.
* No registration process should be required. If not possible, the registration process should be as simple as possible (eg. only confirm [nick]name(s) and OpenID identity).
   
==== Languages ====
* The visitor/user interface must support Dutch, English, French and German.
* The editor/admin interface should also support these languages.
* Contents must be available in all these languages.
** Translations of the same content must share a common URL
** For a content missing a translation visitors should be invited to consult it in others available languages. Ideally without changing the language used for the interface and other content.
** An interface listing content needing translations should be available.
* At any time, a visitor/user must be able to switch from one language to another.
* The language used by defaultmust be,
** for visitor, the best match according to their browser preference.
** for user, the preferred language as selected in his/her profile.
 
 
==== Support Points Map ====
* A user must be able to register as a supporter committed to several task (at least one).
* A visitor/user must be able to search for supporters using queries supporting these criteria
** Spoken language(s)
** Commitments
** Geo-Localization (zipcode, near coordinates, etc.)
* This search feature must be available through simple HTTP GET/POST request returning results in a format easily parsable in JavaScript (JSON or XML).
