{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'' The aim of this page is to prepare a web-site page containing links to groups working with or promoting Ubuntu and FOSS in general. ''

The following plan is proposed:

1. Which kind of groups are concerned ?

2. Definition of the the content on the page?

3. Procedures to be followed to request, propose and agree with the insertion of links 

=== 1. Which kind of groups are concerned ? ===
** Create link between differents Free Software Community with Community who have link with Ubuntu.
    For example: Create a link between Mozilla Belgium Community and Ubuntu-be...
** Linux User Groups: 
    Create link between Linux User Groups or Groups of Free Software who is active in the spread of Ubuntu
** Ubuntu Projects : Mention somewhere on the site with link or not, the project using Ubuntu in Belgium, such as school, ...

** Comment

=== 2. Definition of the the content on the page? ===
** Icon + text ? Content of the text ?
** ...
** Do we need separate pages according to the kind of group?
** Comment

=== 3. Procedures to be followed to request, propose and agree with the insertion of links ===
** Request ?
** ...
** Proposal by member of the Belgian LoCo Team ?
** ...
** Procedure for agreement: could be the same as Par. 6 of page BelgianTeam/Website/Commercial_links
** ...

** Comment
