{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''When? Where? What?'''

*** When ? 07/03/2010
*** Where ? Charleroi, http://www.charleroiexpo.be/
*** What ? Dipro Micro Mega Market Computerbeurs http://www.dipro.be/benl/micro_mega_market 

'''Participants'''

*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdrienRami|Rami Adrien]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.laclic.be|LUG LaClic]]</nowiki>
       -Tef
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.culbutte.be|LUG culbutte]]</nowiki>
       -Didier Misson
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.sambrelug.be|LUG sambrelug]]</nowiki>: about 4 people
Fees

*** ...: 

Practical

*** IRC meeting for coordination: proposed ... at ...h.. on IRC #ubuntu-be
*** Promotion of the booth within Ubuntu-be community and outside ?

'''Stuff needed'''

paper, attachments, various

*** Banner Belgian LoCo Team: (?)
*** Posters "Ubuntu highway to freedom is now open", "Free your PC", "Linux-Tux":  (?)
*** Flyers ubuntu:  (?)
*** Flyer use of live-cd:  (?)
*** Sheet Informatie-Information_Ubuntu.odt:  (?)
*** Pen's: (?)
*** Tablecloth:  (?)
*** 1 inflatable Tux:
*** x figuurtjes Tux:  (?)
*** Contribution urn:  (?)
*** Duct tape and other buro material:  (?)
*** 1 long power extension cords  (?)
*** 3 power strips (4 sockets minimum)  (?)
*** anti-theft cables for laptops (?)

electronics

*** cd's (originals + blanco) + paper bags:  (?)
*** PC: 
*** laptops: 
*** netbook: 
*** additional flat screens: (?)
*** eID card reader:  (?)
*** beamer + screen: (?)
*** Audio set: (?)
*** External cd writer: (?)
*** ...
*** continuous slideshow Ubuntu_short_presentation-NL.odp:  (see wiki))
*** iso's on a stick (Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, Alternate, 64 bits, etc..): (?)
*** Possibility of WiFi connection: ?
*** ... 

What else?

*** Digital camera:  (?)
*** candies: (?)
** fresh drink: (?) 
*** Fee for visitors: (?) 

'''Report'''

We were with 7 people, including 3 LUG's (Sambrelug, CULButte
and C.L.I.C

In the morning we had a lot of people very interest by Ubuntu.
 
During the fair, we discuss about future events, a better communication with
the LUG's and better public relations (PR) actions (with the LUG's). A lot of small events, like release parties 10.04 or other kind of events
all around Wallonie, are preferred rather than a big event.

For the moment it's important to focus on public relations, like press releases, to promote Ubuntu. Example: ?Discover Ubuntu in your city?
with link to a list of events organized by the LUG's. Communication via free press is a good idea, these medias are always in search for a well
written article.

First problem is communication with the LUG'ss about projected events and coordination.

Second problem is public relations : Ubuntu-be should constitute a public-relations team with people who knows what is PR and can propose PR actions. Everyone who thinks he can help is invited to react through the mailing list (and the next IRC meeting).

'''Pictures'''

http://www.flickr.com/photos/didiermisson/sets/72157623468630511/
