{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Bredene, Staf Versluys ==

=== When ===
* sun 25 January 2009: from 10am till 7pm

=== Where ===
* Staf Versluys, Bredene (Belgium)

=== Participants ===
* J Huberts
* Matthew Deboysere
* JanClaeys
* Pieter Vande Wyngaerde

=== Fees ===
* 38 € in fees paid by:
** the people (after paying, we had 37 € left on contributions)

=== Practical ===
* 9.00: preparation. Be there. 
* 10.00: start. The first three hours are the busiest. Try to be there in the morning if you can only afford to spend half a day! 
* 17.00: fair closed 
* 18.00: booth cleaned up 

=== Stuff needed ===
==== Promotionals ====
* Posters?
** Jan
** Pieter
* Flyers?
** Jean
* Tablecloth (length about 6 meter?)?
** Matthew (table paper)
* Power extension cords + power strips.
** Jean
* Contribution urn?
** Pieter
* Other stuff
** Plastic decoration stands (Matthew)
** Recycle bin (Matthew)
** Kleenex (Matthew)

==== Electronics ====
* Cd's
** Jan (has original cd's)
* Computers/laptops
** laptop with Intrepid (Matthew) + internet connection
** laptop with Hardy/Intrepid (Jean) + big screen for Dual Screen (for presentation)
** desktop for demo (Pieter)
* Digital camera! 
** Jean

=== Report ===
Coming soon (being revised)

=== Pictures ===
Coming soon
