{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

Potential and actual users often have difficulties finding out where to buy free software friendly hardware. For a group of volunteers to create and maintain solid answers to this kind of questions requires some specific infrastructure. This is a design document for such infrastructure.

=== Use cases (to be completed) ===

* Xavier is very happy with his Ubuntu desktop. He is in the market for a new Ubuntu laptop, but it is difficult for him to find a laptop without MS Windows or Apple Mac OS X preinstalled, let alone with Ubuntu preinstalled. He learns about the existance of the ubuntu-xx.org support network. He asks Wim, an ubuntu-xx.org volunteer from his neighbourhood, where he can buy such a laptop. Wim refers Xavier to his local Ubuntu hardware buying guide. In the list, Xavier finds a local computer shop where he can buy a machine with Ubuntu preinstalled. He is now a happy beginning Ubuntu user.

* Vassilis is a registered ubuntu-xx.org volunteer. In his volunteer profile, he indicates that he wants to help maintain the entries of at most five computer shops per month in the local hardware guide. Last month, he received an email from ubuntu-xx.org asking him to create a profile of three local computer shops that are not yet featured in the ubuntu-xx.org local hardware guide. Yesterday he received an email from ubuntu-xx.org asking him to update the incomplete or outdated profiles of three computer shops.

=== Functionality (to be completed) ===
* any user:
** see history for all shops
 
* a customer:
** learn why to his own advantage he should buy free software friendly hardware
** if no answer yet, ask the volunteers which nearby shops sell the free software friendly hardware he needs
** find friendly computer shops and free software compatible hardware that sell:
** laptops:
*** with a non-free os refund
*** without a non-free os
*** with a free os preinstalled
*** with a complete Ubuntu testing report on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam
** fully free software driver supported parts and accessories:
*** pcmcia wifi NIC
*** usb wifi NIC
*** scanner
*** webcam
*** video card
*** all-in-one printer/scanner
*** printer
* any volunteer:
** create a shop profile
** update any shop profile
** subscribe to auto mailed shop profile update requests
** unsubscribe from auto mailed shop profile update requests
** receive auto mailed shop profile update requests

* a computer shop or chain owner:
** create his profile directly:
** chain name if applicable
** per shop contact info: 
*** real life: street, house number, city, postal code, lat, lng
*** virtual: phone, email, url, (jabber for bonus points)
*** brick and mortar shop yes/no?
*** mail order shop yes/no?
** chain hardware assortment:
*** laptops:
*** brand
*** model
*** technical specifications: one of
**** free form limited specifications
**** complete report on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam
*** free software friendliness 
**** with a non-free os refund
**** refund amount
**** refund procedure
**** without a non-free os paid for anywhere in the manufacturer-consumer chain
**** price difference from the same configuration plus a non-free os
**** (if applicable) special buying procedure
**** with Ubuntu preinstalled and no non-free os paid for anywhere in the manufacturer-consumer chain
**** price difference from the same hardware configuration plus a non-free os only
*** fully free software driver supported parts and accessories:
*** pcmcia wifi NIC: brand, model, chipset
*** usb wifi NIC: brand, model, chipset
*** scanner: brand, model, chipset
*** webcam: brand, model, chipset
*** video card: brand, model, chipset
*** all-in-one printer/scanner: brand, model
*** printer: brand, model
** get informed of profile updates (by himself or a volunteer)

=== Why? Some commonly overlooked maintenance traps ===

* Shops and hardware are both moving targets.
* Add in price as a third moving target, and it would get even more unmanageable.
* Volunteers are bad at maintenance if not helped by a decent backing structure.
* A wiki is too loosely structured to maintain this kind of information efficiently.
