{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Activities ===
==== Current ====
* ...
* ...
==== Past ====

* Ubuntu-be was present at the HELMO-Saint Laurent school Information Day in Liège on 15th December 2011. Details can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/Education/2011-12-15-Liege-helmo | here.]]</nowiki>

* Ubuntu-be presented Ubuntu at the Cultureel Centrum in Wijnegem near Antwerp, 3 Friday evenings in October 2011. Report can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/Education/Wijnegem_2011-10 | Here]]</nowiki>

* Ubuntu-be presented Ubuntu at the Emmaus Bovenbouw in Aalter to <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Education-Aalter_2011-03-02 | High School]]</nowiki> students (11th grade and matric years). 2 identical sessions of 2 lesson hours, on invitation by Mr. Peter De Deyn, IT teacher at the school, on 2/3/2011.

* Ubuntu-be presented Ubuntu at <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/Education/UGhent_Open_Source-2010 | UGhent for students of Science Related Studies]]</nowiki>, on 9/11/2010. 
   Organised by ICT, Werkgroep Open Source. Jan Bongaerts was scheduled to present an interactive session in a IT class, with up to 20 participants working a computer from the Ubuntu 10.10 live CD.
* Ubuntu-be was invited at the Wetenschap Expo-Sciences fair on March 13-14, 2009 <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-WEXS_2009]]</nowiki>, together with the <nowiki>[[http://www.bxlug.be|BxLug]]</nowiki>
* Ubuntu-be was present at the Flemish education conference <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-VLOD_2007]]</nowiki> 
* Ubuntu-be was present at the Wetenschap Expo-Sciences fair on May 3-5, 2007 <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-WEXS_2007]]</nowiki>, together with the <nowiki>[[http://www.bxlug.be|BxLug]]</nowiki>

=== Material ===
* The lesson
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/Education/UGhent_Open_Source-2010 | Ubuntu les - 09/11/2010]]</nowiki> 

* Presentation
** 

* ...
** ...

=== Courses ===
==== Belgian/Dutch Ubuntu related courses ====
   <nowiki>[[BelgianTeam-Education-NL-Courses | Belgian-Dutch Ubuntu related courses]]</nowiki>
==== Belgian/French Ubuntu related courses : to be completed ====
