{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

FOSDEM 2008 will be held February 23-24th, 2008.

We will have a 1 table booth for Ubuntu, so we need some people (both Belgian and other) to populate this booth during the weekend.  More volunteers who want to help = more free time for these volunteers to visit talks, so... please volunteer!   :-)

As this will be our 2 year birthday, maybe we can have a drink and/or food one evening too?  Maybe together with Ubuntu people from other countries?

== Stuff ==

Stuff to show or distribute at FOSDEM:

* 800 Ubuntu CDs (delivered to JanClaeys by Canonical)
* Conference Pack: 4 T-shirts, 2 caps, some ballpoints, stickers, etc. (delivered to JanClaeys by Canonical)
* Posters (with Dutch language slogan only for now?)
* Flyers for the Flemish release party
* can somebody make a slideshow that explains what a LoCoTeam does (maybe also ask other European LoCoTeams?)
* ... what else will be available to sell and/or give away?

Equipment:

* a network switch for our stand + UTP cables to interconnect the stands
** switch provided by OpenGate.be
* power distribution strips (at least 2 power strips, including 1 with a long cable?)
** JanClaeys can bring 1 short cable power strip
** TomVB can bring 1 power strips and a wifi switch/router with 4 LAN ports
** RoelHuybrechts can bring a 6-element power strip with a 3m (=long) cable
*** 3m is a short cable ;) , but I'll try to bring a longer cable myself -- JanC
* computers
** JanClaeys can bring a laptop, an eID reader & a 20" TFT screen
** WouterHorré can bring a laptop & a eID card reader & a power strip to power the laptop
** TomVB will bring his XO laptop, but there's no guarantee it'll be running Ubuntu
*** we can try to put Ubuntu on it in the booth ;-)  (JanC)
** RoelHuybrechts can bring a laptop
** DJ one recent laptop (compiz,...)
* projector (needs screen/white background) 
** RobVanDyck can bring one (Saturday), but we need something to project on. (not enough space, so I will not bring it)
*** JanC can bring a projection screen--but I think we won't have the required space for this (only 1 table!)
* rubber bands for people who buy posters!  (JanC)
* DJ take the Ubuntu birthday Cake (better than the last year)

There will also be an Ubuntu-based <nowiki>[[http://www.multiseatcomputer.be/|multiseat computer]]</nowiki> in the hacker room.

== Volunteers available for this event ==

* JanClaeys (Fri+Sat+Sun)
* Pieter Verledens (Sat) (to be confirmed)
* WouterHorré (Sat afternoon+Sun): uncertain due to illness
* TomVB (Sat)
* RobVanDyck (Sat)
* PhilippePiquer (Sun pm)
* RoelHuybrechts (Will be hanging around on saturday)
* LieseDeVos (Sun)
* DJ (Sat + Sun )

== Carpooling ==

Some people might have troubles getting to FOSDEM, other people might drive to Brussels with an (almost) empty car, so let's pool cars...  ;-)

Offering:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| JanClaeys
| to the beer event Friday evening (most likely coming from Ghent/Gavere) and back Sunday evening/night (to Bruges)
|-
| LieseDeVos
| I drive from Kortrijk (or Gent) to Fosdem on Sunday
|}

== Trainpooling ==

Some people might prefer public transport - they can list their travel plans here and possibly meet somewhere on the way.

Offering:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| TomVB
| ?09:00? Gent Sint-Pieters -> Brussels Central
|-
| zuzuzzzip
| ?09:29? Weerde -> Brussels Central
|-
| WouterHorré
| Sat: +/- 13u departure from Leuven // Sun: +/-8u departure from Leuven
|-
| DJ
| Sat : morning departure from ciney // Sun: departure frum ciney
|}
