{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== 02-03-2011 AALTER - Presentation at Emmaus to grade 11 and matric pupils (17 & 18 yrs old) ===

* What? Presentation organised by Mr. Peter De Deyn, IT-teacher at the school.

* When? 2 March 2011 at 8.30 am.

* Where? Aalter, Emmaus Bovenbouw, St-Gerolflaan 22.

* Jan Bongaerts was scheduled to present an interactive session in a IT class, with up to 20 participants working a computer from the Ubuntu 10.10 live CD. There were two groups. The first group consisted of 8 matric (rhetorica) students and were joined by another teacher from the school who was interested. The second group consisted of 12 grade 11 (poetica) students.

* Duration: 2 sessions of 2 lesson periods.

==== Content (in Dutch) ====

** Inleiding

    Ubuntu is voor gewone gebruikers

** Voordelen
*** Gratis 
*** Automatische updates voor alle software 
*** Geen virussen en dus geen virusscan.
*** Verschillende workspaces
*** Volledig werkend systeem 
*** Tweaking mogelijk.
*** Geen trials: 
      Bijvoorbeed: DVD brander software, Video DVD's en ISO's Backup software, Déjà Dup

** Taakjes

*** Installeer een programma met 
**** Applications → Software Center 
**** Bijvoorbeeld: 
**** Skype 
**** Frozen Bubble
     
*** Bij elk probleem: Google "Ubuntu + zoekterm" 
*** Voorbeeld: bij Standaard Ubuntu moet je de vensters aan de linkerkant sluiten.
**** Google "Ubuntu close button right" 
**** Kijk naar de antwoorden. 
**** Kies wat voor jou van toepassing is. 
**** Bij  http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/13535 krijg je goede uitleg. 

*** Kijken of Brother Printer werkt
*** Eerst gewoon aansluiten en kijken of hij zo werkt
*** Als het niet werkt, zoekt hij zelf op het internet naar een driver
*** Evt problemsolving zoals hierboven
     
** Praktische info

*** Peripherals 
*** Plug & Play 
*** Zoek op het internet 
*** Koop bewust
**** HP heeft goeie support
**** Zoek model op voorhand op op het internet
**** Neem evt laptop mee naar de winkel
**** Vraag naar inruilvoorwaarden 

*** File structuur: Alles begint met root: / 
      /home: bevat persoonlijke data zoals Desktop en settings 
      /media: hierin worden alle partities en USB-sticks gemount

*** Veiligheidstip 
*** Wees zeker dat je bron betrouwbaar is als er om je paswoord gevraagd wordt 
*** Software Center, Synaptic Package Manager, Update Manager, Ubuntu Forums
*** Pas op met het zelf installeren van software (.deb files)

*** Populaire software

*** Naamgeving Ubuntu versies: 
*** jaar + maand. 
*** Nu elke 6 maanden een nieuwe versie. gewone versie: support (updates) voor minstens 18 maanden. 
*** LTS (Long Term Support) versie: support voor minstens 36 maanden. 
*** Ook een catchy naam met exotische Dierennaam, alliteratie van opeenvolgende letters van het alfabet. 
**** 5.10 Breezy Badger
**** 6.06 Dapper Drake (LTS)
**** 6.10 Edgy Eft
**** 7.04 Feisty Fawn
**** 7.10 Gutsy Gibbons
**** 8.04 Hardy Heron (LTS)
**** 8.10 Intrepid Ibex
**** 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope
**** 9.10 Karmic Koala
**** 10.04 Lucid Lynx (LTS)
**** 10.10 Maverick Meerkat

*** FAQ

==== Report ====

* The presentation was a success. Two groups totalling 20 high school students and 2 teachers. The set-up of the classroom was perfect. There were normal benches in the centre, and computers set up on the side of the room. Beamer with two possible sources. Wired internet available.

* The configuration of having some normal benches in the middle is a great idea. You can first give part of your presentation before they start working on the computer, which can be very distracting. This allowed me to capture their attention very well during the first and last part of the presentation.

* Skype is not part of the repository. I used frozen bubble for the second presentation, but that wasn't the best idea. It took a few minutes for them to stop playing the game, of course.

* The demonstration with the printer went perfectly well. The driver wasn't on my computer, so it started looking for it on the internet. It found a good driver, installed it, and the printer worked normally. For the second group, I deleted the printer, but the computer remembered the driver. When I plugged in the printer, it just worked.

* I forgot to mention where they can get support, and to talk about our organisation. I will include this in my next presentation.

* Presentation can be found here: <nowiki>[[attachment:presentatie_2_maart_2011]]</nowiki>

* Photo's and comments from the school can be found on this site: http://www.emmausbovenbouw.op-weg.be/nieuws/Ubuntu_gastspreker.htm

===== Conclusion =====

* I am feeling confident enough now that we can advertise this service. Now that I have a presentation that works, I can easily give this on fairly short notice. I am hoping that we can spread the word, and approach more schools and organisations to give this presentation.

...
