{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

BESkills is an offshoot of the Ubuntu Belgian Team. (this page is inspired by <nowiki>[[[UKTeam-Skills]]</nowiki>]

It allows all users to offer and look up particular skills and resources needed for your event/project. Whilst technical help is available through the support channels, BESkills is here to help you with the practical side that's needed to realize your project. It may be as simple as being able to design/print A4 flyers or have access to a CD duplicator or being pretty snazzy with an iron to put artwork onto t-shirts, it all helps!

Listed below are the users who are offering their knowledge, skills and resources to help with your event and/or project. Please feel free to email me with your name, contact details and skill base you're willing to offer to the Ubuntu-BE community.
(or edit this page as required)

Thanks in advance.

Please come and fill the table below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Contact / Alias'''
| '''Contact'''
| '''Skill Base (and availability)'''
|-
| Nicolas Pettiaux
| NicolasPettiaux
| coordination of political activities, Writing & proofreading (Via Email and on the wiki)
|-
| Broeckx Bart
| bartek
| Moderator of the dutch Ubuntu forum, event organizer, ...
|-
| FrancoisCauwe
| Swaps
| Organisator, Server Admin, Instructor, student, engineer, ... -- coder: PHP, .NET, Java, C++, MySQL, ...
|-
| JanClaeys
| JanC
| Dutch language reviewer/proofreader, mailing list & IRC channel admin, live-CD customizations, Python coder, ...
|-
| AlexandreLaurent
| Ubuntu-be.org mailing list
| I can write and translate texts to and from French, Dutch or English (my native language being French).
|-
| Abdelhak
| SuperAmir
| PHP Coder, MySQL, Web-Design...
|-
| Indra
| Indra6oc
| Computer technician (building, fixing & recycling of pc's(second life)), a little Webbuilding (<nowiki>[[http://www.lightflower.org|LightFlower]]</nowiki>), Mayan enthusiast
|-
| Rob Van Dyck
| Rob
| developer (J2EE, C++), willing to help out on other activities
|-
| Steven De Baets
| StevenDeBaets
| Marketing, Artwork, Translation, Writing
|-
| Egon Geerardyn
| ILUsion
| Student, electronics engineer, programmer (MATLAB, Python, Java, ...)
|-
| Frank Van Damme
| https://launchpad.net/~frank-vandamme , Ubuntu-be.org mailing list
| System administration (mostly free software, surprise surprise)
|}
As you'll appreciate, the time, skills and resources are offered on a goodwill basis, so please discuss your needs with the "listee" and any time constraints.
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBelgianTeam]]</nowiki>
