{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


The date & time for the meeting is set bi-weekly on Thursday at 21 h, or when needed as advertised on the mailinglist and calendar.

The meetings take place in <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-be|#ubuntu-be]]</nowiki> on irc.freenode.net. You can reach the reach the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|IRC]]</nowiki> channel through a web based client at http://ubuntu-be.org/irc. Everyone is welcome to participate to the meeting, there is no need to register beforehand.

Reports can written in collaboration on: http://openetherpad.org/ubuntu-be or using an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology|IRC meeting bot]]</nowiki>

== Agenda ==
{i} This agenda is a wiki page. Feel free to add items.
=== Events ===
==== Past events ====
*** ...
==== Upcoming events ====
events between brackets: might not be tackled in this meeting - on the page as a reminder.

** (LanForce: 2012-04-06 to 2012-04-08) see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BelgianTeam/IrcMeetings/Reports?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=ubuntu-be-irc-meeting-2011-06-23-report.txt | report 2011-06-23]]</nowiki> for details
** digital week 2012-04-21 to 2012-04-27 (all locations in Belgium)

=== Promotion ===
==== Running projects ====
*** Localized Ubuntu-be ISO (maintainer: Martijn Cielen?)
***** What will we do with this project? 
*** USB-stick for Ubuntu-be (maintainer: Wouter Vandenneuker)
***** Decision on delivery addresses
*** ...
==== Brainstorm & concepts ====
*** Ubuntu promotion on festivals
*** ...

=== Wiki and website: evolutions ===
==== Stuff that happened ====
*** ...

==== Stuff that should happen ====

==== Stuff that could happen ====
*** ...

=== Things living in the mailing list (to be updated) and others ===
==== New members ====
*** ...

==== Discussions ====
*** Organising the IRC-meetings: how and who?

=== Next meeting ===
    Proposal: IRC meeting on Thursday 01/12/2011 at 21 h.
    
    Organisation about IRC meetings:
    Organisation about the council
    

You have the possibility to suggest topics for future meetings: see <nowiki>[[SuggestedTopics]]</nowiki>

== Previous meetings ==
The reports and logs of past IRC meetings are available on <nowiki>[[Reports]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Logs]]</nowiki>.
The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology|IRC bot meetingology]]</nowiki> has some logs since 2012 here <nowiki>[[http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-be/]]</nowiki>
