{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Participants ===
* MarkVanDenBorre
* KennyWest 
* Zappa 
* PeterDedecker
* XavierCauwe
* AdriaanLeijnse
* JannesLecompte
* YOU?

=== Practical ===
 

==== WHEN? ====
* 9.00: preparation. Be there. Part of this is a role play, training ourselves to meet visitors.
* 10.00: start. The first three hours are the busiest. Try to be there in the morning if you can only afford to spend half a day!
* 17.00: fair closed
* 18.00: booth cleaned up
* 18.30: dinner together with interested volunteers

==== WHAT TO BRING? ====
* your laptop or desktop running Ubuntu 6.06 or later
* if possible, a big monitor. I can come pick you up by car if you SMS me (don't call, busy whole saturday!).
* non-alcoholic drinks
* a bag of candy
* your ubuntu tested scanner (put it on the wiki if you will bring it)
* your high quality speaker set  (put it on the wiki if you will bring it)
* some candy to put in a bowl for visitors
* scissors, scotch tape, pens, a roll of rope, ... (put it on the wiki if you will bring it)
* media with free music and video: elephants dream, creative commons music,...

====  ====
 
* MarkVanDenBorre: I will bring : flyers, CD's, electrical power, donation box, CD-R's, paper sleeves for CD-R's
* XavierCauwe: If anyone has transport to and back from the fair, I'm willing to take my computer (Cool looking desktop pc with flatscreen)

=== Comment ===
* XavierCauwe: It's the first time I go and I don't know how this goes... I made this page hoping to find some more info and tips.
* XavierCauwe: I've included the tips MarkVanDenBorre send to ubuntu-be@lists (WHEN / WHAT TO BRING)

=== Feedback ===
* XavierCauwe: I enjoyed spending my time on the fair, and so did the others (I think).
