{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== When? Where? ===
* 28 October 2007
* Oostende <nowiki>[[http://www.media-center.be/|Media Center]]</nowiki> (Troonstraat)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.dipro.be/1/index.htm|Dipro Micro Mega Market Computerbeurs]]</nowiki>

=== Participants ===
* Jan Claeys ("JanC")
* Pieter Vande Wyngaerde ("pvandewyngaerde")
* thijs de laet ("hfsdo") 
=== Fees ===
* 38 € in fees paid by: gifts?

=== Practical ===
* 9.00: preparation. Be there.
* 10.00: start. The first three hours are the busiest. Try to be there in the morning if you can only afford to spend half a day! 
* 17.00: fair closed 
* 18.00: booth cleaned up; find some place to get a drink... ;)

=== Stuff needed ===
==== paper, attachments, various ====
* Posters (Jan Claeys has 1 banner for Ubuntu-BE W-Vl, other posters welcome)
* Flyers (Jan Claeys)
* Tablecloth?
* Candy?
* Contribution urn
* Duct tape (Jan Claeys)
* ...

==== electronics ====
* cd's to burn feisty/gutsy on or already with feisty/gutsy on them + paper bags for them?  (Jan Claeys)
* computers/laptops
** oude Compaq desktop (if gfx fixed) + CRT + tobo + muis (Ubuntu-BE W-Vl)
** laptop met Ubuntu Gutsy (Jan Claeys)
** P III 866 MHz, 512 MiB, Geforce 2 MX 400   Kubuntu gutsy with Compiz Cube enabled. on 14" screen
** 20" TFT (Jan Claeys)
** laptop met ubuntu gutsy (hfsdo)
* Belgian EID Reader (Jan Claeys)
* verlengkabels
** korte kabel met 3-weg contactdoos (Jan Claeys)
** korte kabel met 3-weg contactdoos (Pieter Vande Wyngaerde)
** korte kabel met 4-weg contactdoos (hfsdo)
** meer nodig!
* projectie
** oud dia-scherm (Jan Claeys)
** projector ?
* ...

=== What else? ===
* Digital camera?
* Opblaasbare Tux 1m + opblaaspompje
* ...
