{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* attendees: PierreBuyle, MarkVandenBorre, you?

=== Discussion ===

Isn't this (also) dependent on the new site? -- JanClaeys
 Yes, the future of the support point map (as I see it) is dependent on the new site. This is something that we should discuss at the meeting. -- PierreBuyle

=== Session Gobby Log ===

==== Support points map ====
* Current version
** has lot management time cost
** currently not easy to assist by new persons (php server install, get right framework version running with patches,..)
* New version prepared by Pierre (Drupal,.)
* looking for a project leader (now Mark does a lot).

==== Possible goals ====
* integrate map in ubuntusite
* work together with other maps (.nl, .be, .de, some in .us)
** maybe other groups have a system based on Drupal?
** What about sharing the map-data with other groups?
** To prevent that:
*** persons living near border areas having to look in different maps
*** persons living near border areas showing their support-info on different maps)
** i.e: a user lives near .nl,.de ad .be: Make it easier to add this user to all three maps?
** so: possibility to tick a checkbox which ports the data to the other maps' databases? (which then exports records to other maps' databases)
** Or just inform the user that he can also register on the other maps with links.
** Pierre: 'what about layer both maps' data on 1 map?' (this would solve the whole issue)
* Recycable system / integratable / shareable by other groups?
* Simple
* Low requirements on the server
* Hostable by Cannonical (possible if you use Drupal)
* OpenID integration
* Database cleanup:
** cleanup database once before LTS-release
** cleanup database again after drupal/launchpad integration
** remark: setup a communication-text for first cleanup-work to:
             - inform persons what the steps are
             - so persons know that there will be a second account
                 confirmation in a month or three from now.

==== Advantages of doing in Drupal ====
* Same login as launchpad (OpenID)
* There's Drupal knowledge in house (Luc,.. and easy to learn)

==== Functionalities ====
* Some kind of account renewal to prevent not-contactable contact persons?

==== Support point map needs ====
* a project leader
* somebody to clean the current DB from obsolete accounts (require manual SQL):
** stephan
* People willing to help (code) the support point map (need Drupal/Javascript experience):
** DavidSniper
** PieterVerledens
** PierreBuyle
