{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

People are needed mostly for writing and editing, but there are many other ways of making a useful contribution. For example, simply pointing out errors (such as typos, grammar and spelling, and technical errors) is an extremely useful way to help.

* Fix spelling and formatting errors
* Simplify the structure of long pages
* Organize untidy pages so that they are easy to read
* Fix broken links
* Add new documentation to the wiki

'''NOTE: Before you start contributing to the wiki, you should read the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide|Wiki Guide]]</nowiki> for information on how to edit pages correctly.'''

== Tagged Pages ==

The Documentation Team uses the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag|Tag system]]</nowiki> for marking pages that need work.  Current tags include:
* Pages for '''Unsupported''' versions of Ubuntu
* Pages requiring '''Style Cleanup'''
* Pages requiring '''Content Cleanup'''
* Pages that '''Need Expansion'''
* Pages that are '''Too Long'''
* Pages that might need to be '''Moved''' elsewhere
* Pages that should be '''Deleted'''
* Pages which contain '''Duplicate''' material as other pages

The tags are pretty self-explanatory, but more detailed descriptions are available on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag|Tag]]</nowiki> page.

Feel free to dive in and help take care of those pages that need some love!

If you find a page that needs to be cleaned up, '''DO NOT add it here.'''  Follow the instructions as laid out on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag | Tag]]</nowiki> page.  

== Other Tasks ==
=== Reorganization ===

A few ideas about how best to organize the vast amount of documentation on the wiki can be found at <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Wiki-Tasks-Organization | Organization]]</nowiki>

=== Forum Integration ===

There are lots of good guides posted on the forums every day <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100|in the howto section]]</nowiki>. Often there is material that isn't covered in this wiki. Bringing guides from there into the wiki structure can be really useful by making them:

** More Simple
** More Concise
** More User Friendly
** More Organized

However, be sure to get the author's permission to release the document into the wiki before you import it.  For more details, read the <nowiki>[[Forum]]</nowiki> page.

== See also ==

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tag | Tags]]</nowiki>
* DocumentationTeam
* <nowiki>[[Organization | Organization]]</nowiki>

=== Subpages ===
