{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== What is "The Ubuntu Hour" ===
The idea behind Ubuntu Hour is '''public'''! We are trying to promote Ubuntu to the general public and getting them wondering what else is out there.

=== How to Run One ===

There are two methods of running one.  One is the in-person method and the other is the Online method.

==== In-Person Method ====

* Head over to a public place (like a local coffee shop, etc) where you'll hang out for one (1) hour every week or every other week, you decide.
* Wear something with the Ubuntu logo or have a visible Ubuntu sticker on your laptop (if you bring one).
* When/if you show up, you agree to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
* Anyone can start an Ubuntu Hour, anywhere, anytime.
* Remember this is a social event, be approachable!

'''NOTE:''' People may want to support Free and Open by using <nowiki>[[http://www.openstreetmap.org/|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> for their map locations. (some areas are well supported and others are not)

==== Online Method ====

'''NOTE:''' This method is meant to be used by Lo``Co's that have their members scattered around where there is only one member in a given area.

The Online method uses the tools that are available Online such as IRC and video/auido chat.  There are many video/audio chatting programs and protocols.  Some are FOSS based and some are not.  Keep that in mind when choosing for your Lo``Co.  Make sure you talk about this with your Lo``Co before making a choice.

==== Other Information ====

Keep it simple. Don't make this "How" section any longer than it needs to be.

Don't forget to document!  Let your Lo``Co know about your event, blog about it, write in a mailing list, or any other way you can. If you are a team contact, make sure your event is <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/17/detail/|listed in the LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.
