{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


This page lists the many tools that are available Online that can be used for the vitrual Ubuntu Hours.

=== IRC ===

IRC stands for "Internet Relay Chat" and all LoCo's have a channel for their member to chat in.  IRC can be used as a stand-alone vitrual Ubuntu Hour that does not require any video/audio chatting or as an extra place for memebers who can not use video/audio for chatting or sharing links.

=== Video/Audio ===

This is a list of what can be used:

==== Google Hangouts ====

Requires users to have a Google Plus account.  The good side of this is that the Ubuntu Developer Summit meetings use Google Hangouts.

==== WebRTC ====

From <nowiki>[[http://www.webrtc.org/|here]]</nowiki>:

"WebRTC is a free, open project that enables web browsers with Real-Time Communications (RTC) capabilities via simple JavaScript APIs. The WebRTC components have been optimized to best serve this purpose".

There many clients that use WebRTC, such as chatb.org, but the problem that, on Ubuntu, most of the clients do not work on the Firefox in the repos but the Nightly one.  Chrome and Chromuim works.

==== Skype ====

Requires users to have an account.  Can be downloaded <nowiki>[[http://www.skype.com/en/download-skype/skype-for-linux/|here]]</nowiki>.

==== Facebook Video Calling ====

Need information.

==== Tinychat ====

Does not require users to have an account and this is web based.

==== XMPP ====

These programs allow users to connect to services and to connect to multiple services at the same time. Jitsi, Pidgin, Empathy, and other programs should interoperate.
