{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Gathering Documentation from the Ubuntu Forum ==

=== Introduction ===

The Ubuntu Forums have a wealth of information available. It is important to ensure that the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/|wiki documentation]]</nowiki> (and ultimately the documentation which is included in the Ubuntu system) benefits from that information. Obviously, the material and nature of the documentation on the wiki has a different emphasis from that to be found on the forums, and therefore it may not be suitable to merely copy and paste material from the forum into the wiki.

In order to help the filter of information from the forum into the documentation wiki, a subteam of the WikiTeam will be set up to work on moving information regularly into the documentation wiki.

The documentation that appears on the forum is principally to be found in two places:
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100|The forum howto section]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Main_Page|The Ubuntu Document Storage Center]]</nowiki>

This page describes good practices for moving information from these sources into this documentation wiki.

The team which is dedicated to integrating material from the forum to the help wiki is the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/wikiforumteam|WikiForum team]]</nowiki>. If you are interested in joining the team, visit that page!

=== How to Import Material ===

Importing material is mainly a question of common sense. The following guidelines are useful to keep in mind:

# '''Read the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide|WikiGuide]]</nowiki>!''' - The number one rule is to read the Wiki Guide. This provides help on how to use this wiki and some guidelines for adding material. It is very important to get used to how the wiki is organised and formatted if you wish to contribute regularly.
# '''Integrate, don't duplicate!''' - Do a comprehensive '''search''' of the help wiki before adding material. If a page already exists on a particular subject, don't add a second one with similar material from the forum. Integrate the material from the forum with the existing page, to improve it. So, new information should be added to the existing page in the appropriate place.
# '''Communicate with the author''' - Although the author's permission is not required to copy material from the forum to the help wiki, it is polite to post to the relevant thread to inform them that the material has been integrated into the help wiki, and give some basic details. It may even encourage them to contribute directly to the help wiki!

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WikiGuide]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Wiki|Documentation Wiki home]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DocumentationTeam-Wiki-Tasks|Documentation Wiki tasks]]</nowiki>

=== List of Pages to be Imported ===

A list of pages on the UDSF and on the forum which would potentially be well-suited for integrating with the help wiki can be found at:

 <nowiki>[[import]]</nowiki>

Feel free to edit this list.

In the past, there was a section of this wiki which was intended to be a sandbox for forum users learning to contribute. Now however, we hope that the wiki is user-friendly enough that people can contribute to it directly, and this section has fallen into disuse. It still contains a number of pages which need to be merged with the main body of the wiki. The pages that remain are:

=== Comments ===

For comments, see the <nowiki>[[talk]]</nowiki> page and <nowiki>[[https://https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Contact|Ways to contact the Documentation Team]]</nowiki>.
