{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

As a community we should to be aware of the signs of distress or dysfunction among our colleagues, and be willing to take action to help them.  Changes in mental state can be extremely rapid especially when combined with drugs / alcohol, and since we are all more closely connected to one another we may be aware of a problem sooner than those physically close to someone, or their family.

If you are worried about the mental health of somebody in the community, reach out to them immediately to let them know that you care about them and that you are concerned. Then encourage them to contact one of the resources listed here to get the professional help that they need.

=== Prevention Hotlines ===

Most countries have phone numbers you can call to talk with somebody when you are in need. There you will find professionals who will listen to you, console you, and ultimately get you to the help you need to get better.

Below you will find reputable centers for your country, or one nearby.

==== USA ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-2>'''1 (800) 273-8255'''
|-
| <-2>National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
|-
| Hours:
| 24 hours, 7 days a week
|-
| Languages:
| English, Spanish
|-
| Website:
| www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org
|}

==== <add more countries here> ====

<nowiki>[[https://www.reddit.com/r/SuicideWatch/wiki/hotlines|Reddit]]</nowiki> has a good, up to date (as of last year) list.
