{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a life long Linux user with a focus on building secure, reliable scalable IoT systems that can be deployed in mass for both open and commercial means.  I have been using Ubuntu since 4.10 Warty Warthog when I was in high school and have always had a Ubuntu machine since then.  I was also an early adopter of Ubuntu Core and using it for real world deployments.

I am based in Salem Oregon and enjoy whitewater rafting and camping when my family when I am not building & selling IoT devices/firmware or automating my house.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| bencorrado
|-
| GTalk
| bencorrado
|-
| Email
| bencorrado (at) gmail (dot) com
|}

=== Contributions ===

My contributions have largely been around building cases for using Ubuntu Core as the IoT operating system.

* Presented demonstrated Ubuntu Core at the Embedded World Trade show and worked with analysts from IHS Markit, Gartner, CCS Insight and PAC to demonstrate why Ubuntu Core is the right OS for embedded IoT projects.

* Worked with AWS to provide commercial validation to get AWS to provide support and integration of AWS Greengrass into a snap.

* Presented multiple solutions and Webinars with AWS, Rigado, & Wirepas talking about integrating full IoT solutions using snaps, snap stores and Ubuntu Core.

* Worked with Sarah Dickinson & Tom Canning and gave a detailed presentation of Ubuntu Core and the snap store architectures as the future of secure IoT devices to over 30 analysts in NYC and conducted multiple followup interviews.

* Promoted Ubuntu Core in the press such as articles from <nowiki>[[https://www.iot-now.com/2018/02/22/77441-canonical-announces-deployment-ubuntu-core-across-rigados-iot-gateways/|IoT Now]]</nowiki>

Propagation of Ubuntu in the IoT Market 

* Brought Ubuntu Core to Rigado Cascade gateways building solutions for the commercial gateway market as a service using Snaps and automatic updating. With many 10's of customers with custom snaps and brand stores.

* In progress of working with Wirepas to move Wirepas gateway software over to a snap and then Ubuntu Core Appliance

Architecture contributions to Ubuntu Core

* Participated in the Salt Lake Roadmap Sprint in 2018 contributing to plenaries with the snapd, snapstore and Ubuntu Core teams.

* Provided feedback to booloader security, store structures, administration, and gave perspectives of the real world customer uses for IoT devices (represented over IoT 50 customers using snap stores and Ubuntu Core)

=== Future Goals ===

I want to see the Ubuntu community focused on how to expand to the IoT devices in the field and push IoT users to focus on security, updates and stable IoT devices.  I believe that Ubuntu Core has many of the right features here, but strides need to be made in the mass adoption that require a balance between the security, usability, market development and use costs.  I think the community can help to push this and drive IoT solutions to build on top of Ubuntu.

I think I can help here from continued market advocacy, architecture design, working with top brands in the IoT world and the best open and closed source projects to get them using snaps and building hardware running Ubuntu Core. 

I also am working on building a Ubuntu Core gateway appliance that will be able to run Wirepas and Kura as a simple deploy-able that anyone can use.

 
=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about Ben, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

LoicMinier worked with Ben on various snaps and Ubuntu Core efforts for Rigado gateway. Ben and team have demonstrated strong agility on Linux and Ubuntu, with a strong background in Bluetooth and networking in general. Ben and Rigado engineering understand embedded Linux from u-boot to systemd and how IoT sausages are made, from REST APIs and fleet management to factory processes. It was always a pleasure interacting with Ben and team from an engineering perspective, with high-quality exchanges and patches.
