{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bencrisford|bencrisford]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|3(> '''IRC''':
| '''bencrisford''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''bencrisford''' on ''irc.gnome.org''
|-
| '''bencrisford''' on ''irc.debian.org''
|-
| '''E-mail''':
| bencrisford(at)gmail(dot)com
|-
| '''Skype''':
| bcrisford
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/bcrisford|bcrisford]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Homepage''':
| <nowiki>[[http://bcrisford.comlu.com|Here]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://benc235.wordpress.com|Here]]</nowiki>
|}

=== About Me ===
My name is Ben Crisford and welcome to my wiki page!

I have been using Ubuntu on and off since Edgy and full time since Intrepid, and have been contributing since early 2009.

=== Contributions ===
I have been involved in contributing to Ubuntu since early 2009, and to Edubuntu since around November 2009 mainly in the areas of <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/~bencrisford|Bug triaging]]</nowiki>, Marketing/Advocacy, but I have contributed to other areas as well, including a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekJaunty/UbuntuGaming|couple]]</nowiki> of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekLucid/Gaming|sessions]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu Openweek and a bug fix or two.

==== Bug Fixes ====
<nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pessulus/+bug/379617|#379617]]</nowiki> - Missing dependency for Pessulus.

=== IRC ===

You can normally track me down on the following (freenode) channels...

 {i} #edubuntu

 {i} #ubuntu-community-team

 {i} #ubuntu-bugs

...but you can often find me lurking around other channels as well.

=== Future Plans ===
 {*} I hope to become more involved in the development side of things, and eventually become a MOTU or Edubuntu Developer ;-) .

----
CategoryHomepage
