{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Benjamin Drung, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Benjamin Drung
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdrung|bdrung]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| BenjaminDrung
|}

== Who I am ==
I am 24 years old, live in Berlin, Germany and studying computer engineering at TU Berlin. Apart from being a computer freak I like to play trumpet and cornet. My hand cannot only click on mouse buttons but also can fold <nowiki>[[http://overbenny.wordpress.com/2009/12/26/kleinster-bascetta-origami-stern-der-welt-2/|very small Origami stars]]</nowiki>. I have been learning to program since I was 10 years old and since then I have touched about 10 program languages. Among them there are Pyhton, C, Java, Assembler (e.g. ARM).

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first Ubuntu contact was with 6.06 LTS "Dapper Drake". Since Ubuntu 6.10 "Edgy Eft" I used it as main system. I started diving into packaging after the Packaging Jam in <nowiki>[[UbuntuBerlin|Berlin]]</nowiki> on 2008-02-06. The first package I worked on was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/195772|matplotlib 0.91.2]]</nowiki> and it finally hit Ubuntu 8.04 LTS "Hardy Heron" on 2008-04-15 after 23 days. On 2008-06-16 I joined the <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> team at the first Berliner Bug Jam. 60 day later I have worked on 147 bugs. On 2009-04-23 I became a Ubuntu Universe Contributor and on 2009-09-10 I joined MOTU. On the Debian side I became Debian Maintainer and currently I am in the Debian New Maintainer process to become Debian Developer.

=== My involvement ===

I am maintaining a <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=bdrung@ubuntu.com|bunch of packages]]</nowiki> and take care that some packages are in sync with Debian (for example, lintian). I have been working on the universe-sponsors-queue for some month. I have filed sync requests and done merges all over the archive. There are some bugfixes among the touched packages.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

The best example is <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mozilla-devscripts|mozilla-devscripts]]</nowiki>, which now makes packaging extension very easy.

I touched these package in main:
* sync/merges:
** lintian
** swig1.3
** quilt
* dependencies for eclipse:
** libhamcrest-java
** libservlet2.4-java
** tomcat6
* bug fixing:
** gnome-themes-ubuntu
** xserver-xorg-input-vmmouse

=== Areas of work ===

I maintain a set of packages (in Debian and Ubuntu). For a list of packages I care for have a look at <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=bdrung@ubuntu.com|my Debian Quality Assurance page]]</nowiki>. I am part of the MOTU Media and the Mozilla team. On the Debian side I am in the Debian Multimedia team, Debian Orbital Alignment (DOA) Team, Mozilla Extension Packaging Team. In the Mozilla team I work mozilla-devscripts to make packaging Mozilla extension easier. Therefore I touch many extensions.

Since some weeks I am working actively on the ubuntu-universe-sponsors queue. I help to keep the queue short or <nowiki>[[http://overbenny.wordpress.com/2010/01/04/empty-ubuntu-universe-sponsors-queue/|empty]]</nowiki>.

=== Things I could do better ===

Currently nothing comes to my mind. I am open for receiving constructive criticism.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

I want to work on the ubuntu-main-sponsor queue to reduce its size to zero and keep it low (like the ubuntu-universe-sponsors list).

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

What I like least: Bugs and rotten debdiffs waiting for a sponsor.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I first got to know Benjamin during the Berlin Packaging Jams and was very happy when I saw his first requests in the sponsoring queue. His work is great, his collaboration with other maintainers exemplary. I fully trust his work and hope to see more coming in the future.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I'm particularly happy with Benjamin's cooperation with Debian, his involvement in the Mozilla team, his work on getting Eclipse ready again and lots of other key pieces of Ubuntu.

* http://code.launchpad.net/harvest
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mozilla-devscripts/+bug/517854
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/javatools/+bug/512979
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libmx4j-java/+bug/512968
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mozilla-devscripts/+bug/508925
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libservlet2.4-java/+bug/499280
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tomcat6/+bug/499277
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libhamcrest-java/+bug/495994
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/321013
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/321015
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/audacity/+bug/325905 (great work working with Debian)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dvdbackup/+bug/216376
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vala/+bug/259199
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+bug/337469
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+bug/298138

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
