{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Benjamin Drung, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Benjamin Drung
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdrung|bdrung]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| BenjaminDrung
|}

== Who I am ==
I am 23 years old, live in Berlin, Germany and studying computer engineering at TU Berlin. Apart from being a computer freak I like to play trumpet and cornet. My hand cannot only click on mouse buttons but also can fold <nowiki>[[http://overbenny.wordpress.com/2008/03/25/kleinster-bascetta-origami-stern-der-welt/|small Origami stars]]</nowiki>. I have been learning to program since I was 10 years old and since then I have touched about 10 program languages. Among them there are Pyhton, C, Java, Assembler (e.g. ARM).

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first Ubuntu contact was with 6.06 LTS "Dapper Drake". Since Ubuntu 6.10 "Edgy Eft" I used it as main system. I started diving into packaging after the Packaging Jam in <nowiki>[[UbuntuBerlin|Berlin]]</nowiki> on 2008-02-06. The first package I worked on was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/195772|matplotlib 0.91.2]]</nowiki> and it finally hit Ubuntu 8.04 LTS "Hardy Heron" on 2008-04-15 after 23 days. On 2008-06-16 I joined the <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> team at the first Berliner Bug Jam. 60 day later I have worked on 147 bugs.

=== My involvement ===

I take care to keep the xmms2 package and clients (gxmms2, esperanza, abraca) up to date / merged. I am working together with Debian on the packages audacity, dvdbackup (I am the upstream maintainer), matplotlib [1]. If packages (which I am using) have bugs I am not afraid of touching them (e.g. apt-mirror, audacious). For a complete list have a look at the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdrung/+uploaded-packages|uploaded packages]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdrung/+archive/ppa|my PPA]]</nowiki>.

[1] http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=benjamin.drung@gmail.com

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* I am proud of working together with the Debian maintainer for matplotlib to reduce the differences between the Debian and Ubuntu package to zero (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+publishinghistory|history]]</nowiki>).
* audacious 1.5.1-3ubuntu1 (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/256574|bug #256574]]</nowiki>) was tricky. It needed to be cleaned up and I had to find a way to set the default output plugin to pulseaudio, because the previous way did not work any more.
* I have packaged pwdhash (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/216892|bug #216892]]</nowiki>), but this is a small and simple package.

=== Areas of work ===

I am working on packages I am using myself. I like to keep the packages up to date, clean them up (e.g. make them lintian clean), fix bugs, reduce the difference to Debian and getting the relevant patches upstream.

=== Things I could do better ===

I am sometimes a bit lazy (e.g. writing this application needs weeks). I missed to send patches to Debian or upstream from time to time.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

My plans are to get more involved in the Ubuntu development and become a MOTU. When I have enough time I want to work on the ugly, outdated, big eclipse package.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Ubuntu has too many bugs. There is no Ubuntu release that I can call perfect (in reference to the bugs).

There is no information who uploads my changes if the sponsor does not post anything (e.g. dvdbackup in <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/330684|bug #330684]]</nowiki>).

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I got to know Benjamin Drung during the Berlin Bug/Packaging Jams and quickly found out that he's doing a great job. I sponsored/reviewed 5-10 of his packages and was particularly impressed with his collaboration with Debian and upstream people which all happened very naturally. I don't know how or when he worked out the know-how for more complicated changes, but I am clearly impressed.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sphinx/+bug/318924
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/321013
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/321015
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/audacity/+bug/325905 (great work working with Debian)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dvdbackup/+bug/216376
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vala/+bug/259199
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+bug/337469
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+bug/298138

==== Areas of Improvement ====
For becoming MOTU, Benjamin will just need a bit more of working together with us and I hope to see him at many more bugs / packaging jams. :-)

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===
==== General feedback ====
I worked with Benjamin on a few mozilla/firefox extension packages and remember him as a proactive and responsive contributor who takes responsibility for the software he works on; also he is open to new ideas, suggestions and techniques and wants to learn new things. I am looking forward to work with him in the future and think he would be a great universe contributor.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Gain more packaging experiences on more (semi-)complex packages and get to know more corner cases, by helping out other contributors out.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
