{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


I am a Ubuntu developer (core-dev & MOTU) and Debian Developer.

* Launchpad ID: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdrung|bdrung]]</nowiki> (you can find contact details here)
* Blog: http://overbenny.wordpress.com/ (last updated ages ago)

I was born in 1985, live in Berlin, Germany and studied computer engineering at TU Berlin. Apart from being a computer freak I like to play trumpet and cornet. My hand cannot only click on mouse buttons but also can fold <nowiki>[[http://overbenny.wordpress.com/2008/03/25/kleinster-bascetta-origami-stern-der-welt/|small Origami stars]]</nowiki>. I have been learning to program since I was 10 years old and since then I have touched at least 10 program languages. Among them there are Pyhton, C, Java, Assembler (e.g. ARM). If you want to contact me, have a look at the Launchpad site provided above. You probably want to contact me via IRC or email.

My first Ubuntu contact was with 6.06 LTS "Dapper Drake". Since Ubuntu 6.10 "Edgy Eft" I used it as main system. I started diving into packaging after the Packaging Jam in <nowiki>[[UbuntuBerlin|Berlin]]</nowiki> on 2008-02-06. The first package I worked on was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/195772|matplotlib 0.91.2]]</nowiki> and it finally hit Ubuntu 8.04 LTS "Hardy Heron" on 2008-04-15 after 23 days. On 2008-06-16 I joined the <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> team at the first Berliner Bug Jam. 60 day later I have worked on 147 bugs. On 2009-04-23 I became a Ubuntu Universe Contributor. Since then I touched many packages in Debian and Ubuntu. On 2009-09-10 I became finally <nowiki>[[MOTU]]</nowiki> and on 2010-03-16 core-dev. From <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2010-November/000780.html|2010-11-06]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/technical-board/2015-March/002086.html|2015-03-02]]</nowiki> I served on the DeveloperMembershipBoard.

After university I worked for a German company for eight years. During that time I contributed fixes and improvements to Debian packages that we used. Since 2022-04-01 I am working for Canonical in the Foundations team. Part of my work is maintaining Apport, initramfs-tools, and tzdata.

=== Contributions ===

For a list of packages I (probably) care for, have a look at <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=bdrung@ubuntu.com|my Debian Quality Assurance page]]</nowiki>. A list of packages I take 100% blame for it:

* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/bdrung/bdebstrap|bdebstrap]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/bdrung/chaos-marmosets|chaos-marmosets]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/distro-info|distro-info]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/distro-info-data|distro-info-data]]</nowiki> (together with Stefano Rivera)
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/bdrung/ionit|ionit]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ionos-cloud/netconsole|netconsole]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/bdrung/restricted-ssh-commands|restricted-ssh-commands]]</nowiki>

A (historic) list of contributions:

* <nowiki>[[http://audacity.sourceforge.net/|Audacity]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-dev-tools|ubuntu-dev-tools]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.videolan.org/vlc/|VLC]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/mozilla-devscripts|mozilla-devscripts]]</nowiki> and nearly every XUL extension (16) of the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/DebianMozExtTeam|Mozilla Extension Packaging Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.xmms2.org/|XMMS2]]</nowiki> and its clients (abraca, esperanza, gxmms2, promoe, xmms2-scrobbler)
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/gnome-colors/|GNOME-Colors]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/gnome-colors-pkg|gnome-colors]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/shiki-colors-pkg|shiki-colors-murrine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/arc-colors-pkg|arc-colors]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[http://git.debian.org/?p=pkg-java/eclipse.git;a=summary|Eclipse]]</nowiki> (together with Niels Thykier in the Debian Orbital Alignment Team)
* <nowiki>[[http://dvdbackup.sourceforge.net/|dvdbackup]]</nowiki>
* yofrankie

Besides maintaining these package, I work on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-sponsors|ubuntu-sponsors]]</nowiki> queue and try to keep it <nowiki>[[http://overbenny.wordpress.com/2010/01/04/empty-ubuntu-universe-sponsors-queue/|empty]]</nowiki>.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Version'''
| '''Uploaded (different) packages'''
|-
| 8.04 Hardy
| 2
|-
| 8.10 Intrepid
| 11
|-
| 9.04 Jaunty
| 15
|-
| 9.10 Karmic
| 34
|-
| 10.04 Lucid
| 79
|-
| 10.10 Maverick
| 68
|}

...and continued from there (not collected the data).

=== Future ===

I want to ... (sorted from near to far)

* implement the UnitsPolicy in GNOME
* go to <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bed|bed]]</nowiki> ;)

----
CategoryHomepage
