{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Benjamin Drung, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Benjamin Drung
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bdrung|bdrung]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| BenjaminDrung
|}

== Who I am ==
I am 23 years old, live in Berlin, Germany and studying computer engineering at TU Berlin. Apart from being a computer freak I like to play trumpet and cornet. My hand cannot only click on mouse buttons but also can fold <nowiki>[[http://overbenny.wordpress.com/2008/03/25/kleinster-bascetta-origami-stern-der-welt/|small Origami stars]]</nowiki>. I have been learning to program since I was 10 years old and since then I have touched at least 10 program languages. Among them there are Pyhton, C, Java, Assembler (e.g. ARM).

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first Ubuntu contact was with 6.06 LTS "Dapper Drake". Since Ubuntu 6.10 "Edgy Eft" I used it as main system. I started diving into packaging after the Packaging Jam in <nowiki>[[UbuntuBerlin|Berlin]]</nowiki> on 2008-02-06. The first package I worked on was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/195772|matplotlib 0.91.2]]</nowiki> and it finally hit Ubuntu 8.04 LTS "Hardy Heron" on 2008-04-15 after 23 days. On 2008-06-16 I joined the <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> team at the first Berliner Bug Jam. 60 day later I have worked on 147 bugs. On 2009-04-23 I became a Ubuntu Universe Contributor. Since then I touched many packages in Debian and Ubuntu. For a list of packages I care for have a look at <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=bdrung@ubuntu.com|my Debian Quality Assurance page]]</nowiki>.

=== My involvement ===

* Maintaining packages (keeping them up to date, Debian and Ubuntu in sync, fixing bugs, maintaining upstream contact)
** <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnome-colors-packagers|GNOME-Colors]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gnome-colors.html|gnome-colors]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/s/shiki-colors-murrine.html|shiki-colors-murrine]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/arc-colors.html|arc-colors]]</nowiki>; maintaining the packages with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~andrewsomething|Andrew Starr-Bochicchio]]</nowiki>; good contact to upstream)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pwdhash.html|pwdhash]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/abraca.html|abraca]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dvdbackup.html|dvdbackup]]</nowiki>
* packages, I care for
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xmms2.html|xmms2]]</nowiki> and it's clients (<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/g/gxmms2.html|gxmms2]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/e/esperanza.html|esperanza]]</nowiki>, ...)
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/a/audacity.html|audacity]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/matplotlib.html|matplotlib]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mozilla-devscripts.html|mozilla-devscripts]]</nowiki> (especially the extension packaging part)
** Firefox extensions like adblock-plus, mozgest

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

One big area was packaging the GNOME-Colors parts together with Andrew, bringing them to Debian and Ubuntu, keeping them up to date and fixing already bugs in the packages. We provide a GNOME-Colors PPA for hardy, intrepid and jaunty. According the responses (e.g. bug reports, blog posts) the PPA is widely used. I helped upstream to use a version control system (subversion) and wrote for him makefiles which makes packaging even simpler.

I hacked with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~asac|Alexander Sack]]</nowiki> on xpi.mk from the mozilla-devscripts package to make packaging Firefox extensions simpler.

=== Areas of work ===

* Packaging new upstream releases
* Merges/Syncs
* Bug triage
* Patches
* Helping debian-multimedia / MOTU Media and the Mozilla team

=== Things I could do better ===

I am sometimes a bit lazy in writing text.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

Continue to work on my preferred packages, start hacking on Eclipse and helping others (= join ubuntu-universe-sponsors).

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

The most annoying part of Ubuntu is the big amount of bugs. In each Ubuntu release I can easily find bugs.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Andrew Starr-Bochicchio ===
==== General feedback ====
I've been consistently impressed by the quality of Benjamin's work, and his commitment to contributing back to Debian and upstream as well. He has demonstrated clear knowledge of Debian packaging. I fully trust his work, and believe he will make a great addition to the Ubuntu Development team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* https://launchpad.net/~gnome-colors-packagers
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xmms2/+bug/398481
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pwdhash/+bug/399036

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Nothing specific that I can think of...

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I first got to know Benjamin during the Berlin Packaging Jams and was very happy when I saw his first requests in the sponsoring queue. His work is great, his collaboration with other maintainers exemplary. I fully trust his work and hope to see more coming in the future.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* http://code.launchpad.net/harvest
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sphinx/+bug/318924
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/321013
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/321015
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/audacity/+bug/325905 (great work working with Debian)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dvdbackup/+bug/216376
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vala/+bug/259199
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+bug/337469
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/matplotlib/+bug/298138

==== Areas of Improvement ====

=== Alexander Sack (asac) ===
I worked with Benjamin on a few mozillateam topics. Besides from extension packaging, he is one of the main drivers of our extension packaging xpi.mk in mozilla-devscripts and responsible for the great new features we got in 0.14 and 0.15. While working with him it didn't take long to convince me of his excellent technical skills especially on build systems/make. Also he follows up, acts quickly and helps out in the community. I full trust his work and I am sure that making him a MOTU would be a great win for the ubuntu project.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* most noteworthy parts on mozilla-devscripts: https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~mozillateam/mozilla-devscripts/mozilla-devscripts
** https://code.edge.launchpad.net/+branch/~bdrung/mozilla-devscripts/moz-version-manpage
** https://code.edge.launchpad.net/+branch/~bdrung/mozilla-devscripts/lintian
** https://code.edge.launchpad.net/+branch/~bdrung/mozilla-devscripts/moz-version
** http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Emozillateam/mozilla-devscripts/mozilla-devscripts/revision/213
** http://bazaar.launchpad.net/%7Emozillateam/mozilla-devscripts/mozilla-devscripts/revision/211
** ... and more.
* extension packaging

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
