{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

http://benjamingolub.com

== About Me ==
I graduted from <nowiki>[[http://www.case.edu|Case Western Reserve University]]</nowiki> in 2007 with a BSE in Computer Engineering and a Minor in Artificial Intelligence.  I currently live in Rochester, NY where I work for Frontier Communications, a telecommunications company.  I am fortunate enough to be able to utilize open source tools at work; my work laptop runs Ubuntu and I get to use Debian servers, PHP, Python, SVN, etc daily. 

== Goals ==
It is my goal to contribute back to Ubuntu with hopes that I may one day become a member.  Whether that be through developing, packaging, or contributing to the community, I am not sure.  I would also like to learn more about Ubuntu (the code, ideals, and community).

== Current Projects ==
http://flashcards.benjamingolub.com - a 100% free (as in beer, once it is done I will likely release the source code as well) flashcard database.  All other flashcard databases out there charge you to get features like RSS feeds, printing, quizzing, etc.  I promise to never charge a penny and to implement as many features as I can.  My theory: you generously provided the data, who am I to tell you how you can access it?  Built using Django.

== New York Team ==
I am a part of the <nowiki>[[NewYorkTeam|NewYork LoCo Team]]</nowiki>. I just recently (2007/10/01) joined but I hope to make the New York Team my first step towards contributing back to Ubuntu.
