{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~beno1990|beno1990]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| (to be added)
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=643282|beno1990]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| (to be added)
|-
| '''Email''':
| beno1990@gmail.com
|-
| '''Blog''':
| (none yet)
|}

=== About me ===

beno1990 from the Ubuntu forums.

beno1990 is an online name I've used since I threw together my first Email account when I was about 6 years old, not a very interesting story, really, it's just taken from my first name and the first letter of my second name, with my birth year. As I said, not a very interesting story behind that name. ;)

I'm a computer science student at university in the UK, interested primarily in programming and operating systems. I've been naturally interested in computers since I was a kid, and I've always found them to be one of my strong points.

I started back in 1994, when I was 4 years old, with Windows 3.1/MS-DOS, then progressively through the years with Windows 95, 98, 2000, XP, and then when I was 13, I started using the latest cool thing I'd heard about for computers, an operating system that isn't Windows or Mac; Linux. At the time, it was Red Hat 9, which I'd heard about by reading about the development of Fedora Core 1, its new successor. So I tinkered with RH9/Fedora Core for quite some time, using Linux as my primary OS from the moment I started using Fedora Core 1 when that was released. I worked my way through the Fedora releases, eventually hearing about Ubuntu and just shrugging it off as just another distro at the time, until eventually I installed it on my laptop, and took an instant liking for it; it was just as powerful as any other Linux distro at its core, but easy to use for simple tasks.

I've slowly started using Ubuntu as my primary distro since then, having it on my new laptop and my server, with Fedora only on my old desktop now.

From my years with Linux and Ubuntu, it's certainly my favourite OS out of all which I've used in my time, and I'd like to help other people become acquainted with the OS the same way I had to years ago when I was just 13 years old.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu community ===

==== Support ====

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=954743|How to configure a Dell Inspiron 1525 for Ubuntu Hardy Heron/Intrepid Ibex]]</nowiki>

 {*} Various support posts on the forums.

 {*} Interested in joining the Ubuntu forums beginner's team.
