{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Bertrand Frottier ==

Email: 
Jabber: bertrand.frottier @ jabber.org

GPG keys: <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x421EC1B30195D6D9CBAE6CAC3ED25A85B22D933D|B22D933D]]</nowiki>
----
After beeing not so happy with different linux distro, I discovered Ubuntu not so long ago.

Tried it, loved it, installed it.

Now I really want to help. I think I might help translating a little, french is my mother tongue.

=== Some translations ===

==== gajim ====

gajim is a GTK jabber client written in Python. <nowiki>[[http://www.gajim.org/]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/breezy/+sources/gajim/+pots/gajim/fr]]</nowiki>

===== translations hints =====
I mostly try to use the translation that already are in the official pot file (by Yann Le Boulanger <asterix@lagaule.org>), just correcting some typos and mispellings. However I sometime disagree with the translation, I'll leave this disagreements marqued as "someone should review".

===== some words =====
A little memo on how to translate some words

* connection: connexion
* roster: ???
* groups chat:
* room: salon
* chat room: salon de discussion

----
CategoryHomepage
