{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

A perfect Wine integration will have many things not covered by <nowiki>[[BetterIntegratedWineSpec| BetterIntegratedWine]]</nowiki> and normal upstream improvements.  Here, we outline goals for what Wine should look like.

=== Rationale ===

Some changes are beyond the scope of what's feasible with BetterIntegratedWine.  Some changes might require many months of development.  Here we discuss all possible improvements to Wine and the benefits of each.  This page, in effect, serves as a wishlist.

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

* Integration of Case-Insensitive-On-Purpose filesystem for the entire ~/.wine folder: http://www.brain-dump.org/projects/ciopfs/
** This will speed things up (slightly) when Windows programs ask if a file doesn't exist (since this is much hard to do on case-sensitive file systems)
** More importantly, this prevents confusing a Windows application when a user manually puts foo.bar into the same folder as Foo.bar on the virtual C:\ drive.
** So, instead, when going to copy the file the user would be prompted to overwrite. Would be nice to have some means within nautilus of detecting that this is happening and tell the user this overright is due to the destination being case insensitive (which would also apply if writing to samba folders and such).

* Consider making Ies4linux easier to install/integrate, especially with something like this: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1429  (a firefox extension that lets you see a Wine-powered IE in a tab.)

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during CD testing, and to show off after release.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
