{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/foo
* '''Created''':  by CoreyBurger2
* '''Contributors''': CoreyBurger2
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

We need a better way to do laptop testing, to attract more community members and to keep the existing reports up to date better.

=== Rationale ===

The current laptop testing stuff is quite cludgy.

=== Use cases ===

* Matthew is trying to make certain a laptop works in Ubuntu, and thus needs easy access to the raw data.
* Jim is trying to update his laptop report for a new version of Ubuntu.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

There are two parts:
* The database/web side
* The client side for testing

The database side needs to initially simply be a form that users fill out, similar to the current wiki template. The will need to be versioned for specific distros and will need to allow the user to change a report.

The client side would be developed later. It would allow more automated testing and a nice pyGTK interface for some parts.

=== Implementation ===

* Authenticate against LP
* Written in python

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
LunaTick : I would like to see the LaptopTesting tied into the Hardware Database and aggregated by part, not laptop. That way the information could be collated against the actual parts and the actual laptop you use could merely be a 'set' or 'collection' of the parts you are reporting on. This allows far more data to be collected and ensures that people get access to all the information on the part they are using (where to get proprietary drivers etc.) regardless of which make/model of laptop they are using. It additionally means that, immediately after submitting to the database the parts that make up a new laptop, one could see voting, comments etc. from the hundreds who use the part in a different laptop.

GregTaylor : I completely agree and will help however possible. I'd love to help with a web front-end or something similar.

AndrewAsh : This sounds great.  Is there an actual spec it can be linked to, instead of the default at the top of this page?

AzraelNightwalker: current laptop testing reports on Ubuntu wiki are a real pain in the ass - you have to worry about wiki table formatting instead of the report content :/ Also there is too much redundancy with posting all the laptop variants (ie. Acer Aspire 5002 WLMi, Acer Aspire 5002 NWLMi,  Acer Aspire 5003 WLMi, Acer Aspire 5004 WLMi - they're pretty much the same)

Jasonreynolds: Is there a script that would snag all the information needed and place it into a report. An application that could be installed easily would be really nice. Then you just run the application and can use your report to add information to the wiki page. If made simple enough wouldn't any user be able to install on a laptop and upload the data somewhere with a simple click?

----
CategorySpec
