{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Created''':  by Costincar
* '''Contributors''': Costincar
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Existing sections in APT are in need of restructuring. They are largely unhelpful for the non-techie user.

=== Rationale ===
Help users find packages a lot faster. And maybe increase usage of good packages - users won't get tired of looking through crap just to find something useful.

=== Use cases ===
John wants to find Avidemux. He looks for it in multimedia, but finds it in Graphics (?). He also sees a lot of sections which don't mean anything to him, and even confuse him - Communication, Interpreted Computer Languages, Perl, Python.

=== Scope ===
Restructure the repositories to make finding packages easier. Finding a package is easy, provided, you _know_ the name of the program. If you search by scope, you're out of luck, and Ubuntu's 15.000+ packages fight against you.

=== Design ===
Group more categories into devel - Interpeted Languages, Perl, Python - by the way, Perl and Python are interpreted :)

=== Implementation ===
Determine categories useful for the users. Then triage the existing packages accordingly, getting user feedback after each major step.

==== Code ====
None needed. It'a an administrative chore.

==== Data preservation and migration ====
Not involved.

=== Unresolved issues ===
A lot of work to filter all packages.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
