{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''':
* '''Created''': March 16 2006
* '''Contributors''': JohnNilsson DennisKaarsemaker
* '''Packages affected''': Evolution, Spamassassin, Bogofilter

=== Summary ===

Currently, spamfiltering in Evolution does not work out of the box for various reasons. This spec tries to describe a better implementation of out-of-the-box spamfiltering for Evolution in Ubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

Spam is omnipresent these days, there realy needs to be a good way filter most of it.

=== Use cases ===

Dennis gets a lot of spam every day. His mailhost does not do spamfiltering and thus he needs to rely on his mailclient to handle this.

John has his own smtp/imap server setup for small group of people where mail is processed by procmail to weed out spam at delivery. When clients are using Evolution to declare mail as spam or ham this information should be processed on the server, preferably without the blocking delay that Evolution currently forces upon the user, so that spam is moved to a special IMAP folder for spam ("Junk"?).

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
