{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

I am a Linux enthusiast and programmer.  I first installed Ubuntu around 2008 when my Dad's Windows computer got a worm and wouldn't work, so he installed Ubuntu. I decided to as well (dual boot).  I noticed I was using the Windows partition less and less, and then used the GParted live CD to delete it.  I learned some shell, then python, common lisp, and then some C. I also know a bit of Perl and Ruby (but not as much as I might like to), and some C++.

I'm a believer in GIYF (Google is your friend) :)

=== Contact ===

Email: [redacted Nov. 6, 2012]

Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~ijcguy1

You can usually find me on IRC
chat.freenode.net, bgs100 (or possibly N-14)

=== Contributions to the Community ===

* I try to show people the huge world of Linux that they most likely (around where I live anyway) don't know about
* I try to answer questions people have about Ubuntu, Linux in general, a programming language I know, or anything googleable ;)

=== Goals ===

* Continue learning more about programming and Linux
* Become a member of the Beginners Team (completed: Wednesday June 17, 6:44 PM) 
* Show more people the world of Linux

----
CategoryHomepage
