{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Bhavani Shankar, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Bhavani Shankar
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://edge.launchpad.net/~bhavi
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BhavaniShankar
|}

== Who I am ==
''I am a 23 year old  cerebral palsy physically challenged guy and an Electrical engineer from Bangalore India''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''My involvement in the community started back in 2007 where i worked on the forums (answered to around 4000 questions) which I really like doing Gradually I did a bit of translation in my mother tongue kannada and now active  in bug triaging and packaging over past year and a half.I am an ubuntu member from November 2007''

=== My involvement ===
My involvement In the commmunity ranges from the answer tracker to translations to malone and soyuz of late (from the intrepid cycle) ..
My list of packages can be found <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bhavi/+related-software|here]]</nowiki>

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Mostly I work on merges and syncs and new upstream versions and bugfixes. Some bugs I have worked and fixed:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/436540

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/350825

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/401344

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/407675

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/407688

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/400102

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/393105

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-pylibacl/+bug/391574
 
* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/439934

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/456419

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/504137

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/504140

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/503789

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/487876

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/508729

In Jaunty release cycle with the collaboration of dholbach and hamish in debian I updated the whole geda stack in ubuntu (some of them which had missing build dep on intltool which I forwarded to debian and got it synced here) Some of the bug reports:

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libgeda/+bug/322648

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geda-gattrib/+bug/334373

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geda-doc/+bug/336257

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geda-utils/+bug/337231

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geda-symbols/+bug/337234

I am active in updating gnome-lirc-properties from Jaunty cycle

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/317969

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/350825

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/482676

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/592547

Some of the other bugs I have worked on:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/321079 (Inkscape merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/318366 (galculator merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/317368 (gnumeric merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/314984 (openssl merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/315364 (sane-backends merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/308856 (avahi merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/326823 (xchat merge in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/379974 (amule merge in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/321866 (firmware-tools update in jaunty)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/504241 (update in lucid of the same)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/590130 (update of the package in maverick)

Updates of ugene package:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/405922

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/486583

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ugene/+bug/606642 

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/326830 (update in jaunty)

Other bugs I worked on:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/386220

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/392225

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/393105

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/393717

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/398130 (apache2 merge in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/399211 (merge of iptables in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/401080

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/386705

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/398701 (perl merge in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/404856 (ltrace merge in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/400102

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/398229

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/404876 (ucommon update in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/601976 (ucommon update in maverick)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/401775 (dell-dup update in karmic)

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/classads/+bug/610149 (classads update in maverick) 

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/401344

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/406890 (irssi merge in karmic)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/478334 (autoconf merge in lucid)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/492141 (ppoeconf merge in lucid)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/481066 (fakeroot merge in lucid)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/503789

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/486316 (wordpress merge in lucid)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/356457 (mnemosyne merge in lucid)

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/487876 (fakesync of checkgmail in lucid)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/591333 (fakesync of the same package in maverick)

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/594934 (libcddb fakesync in maverick)

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/596757 (libass fakesync in maverick)

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/525824

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/606153 (dput merge in maverick)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/600945 (pyao merge Fixes FTBFS)
 
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/617710 (ppl merge fixes FTBFS)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/592526 (zsh-beta manual merge in maverick) (Since MoM is broken/not updated for this package)

(See: https://merges.ubuntu.com/z/zsh-beta/)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/602521 (iok new version in maverick)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/599277 (firmware-extract new version in maverick)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/414247 (firmware-addon-dell new version in maverick)

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/579747 (harpia new version in maverick)

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/612102 

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/371076 (gresistor bugfix in maverick)

Some FTBFS bugs I have worked on recently:

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/592602

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/596452

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/595827

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/596615

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/597079

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/596890

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/599311

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/600129

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/599795

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/601029

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/598118

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/600596

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/601893

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/601390

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/599059

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/609758 (zoneminder FTBFS in maverick)

(Some of the packages failed to build with new ffmpeg and I fixed few packages by defining STDC_CONSTANT_MACROS which is a workaround to allow C++ programs to use macros specified in the C99 standard that aren't in the C++ standard AFAIK.)

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/613450
  
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/613916

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/611965
  
* https://launchpad.net/bugs/614464

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/618239

* https://launchpad.net/bugs/618561  

Few SRU requests that I filed recently:

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mobile-broadband-provider-info/+bug/607788

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/587345

Long list of packages uploaded can be found <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bhavi/+related-software|here]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
I mainly work on merges and syncs and updating packages and fixing FTBFS. Especially I m interested in Science packages (Electronics to be precise) and as a part of the MOTU science team as a long standing contributor (https://edge.launchpad.net/~motuscience/+members#active) and I maintain few packages in debian Major notable things are:

reviving xoscope in debian http://packages.qa.debian.org/x/xoscope/news/20090814T121741Z.html

maintaining mobile-broadband-provider-info in debian from close to a year where I forward bugs upstream according to their relevance and do a git pull twice a month and update the package in debian and due to its integration with NM now the popcon of the package has risen almost exponentially 

(http://qa.debian.org/popcon.php?package=mobile-broadband-provider-info)

Copied emu8051 from ubuntu and almost repackaged it completely with packaging improvements to 
comply with modern standards 

http://packages.qa.debian.org/e/emu8051/news/20100617T184717Z.html

Serving on board of pkg-electronics as a senior packager/developer

https://alioth.debian.org/users/bhavi-guest

My <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=Bhavani Shankar|Debian QA Page]]</nowiki>

=== Things I could do better ===
Perhaps maintain more packages in debian and in ubuntu and work on SRU's more 

== Plans for the future ==
Just to keep contributing in a single hand as long as possible :)

=== General ===
* Continue to keep contributing in whichever small way I can.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
'' ubuntu-revu seems somewhat less transparent to especially new guys who want to get their package into ubuntu as compared to debian-mentors where packagers put the links to their packages from mentors.debian.net on debian mentors mailing list and DD's give a quick response thereby packagers feel impressed and pushed even more to get their package into debian  ''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

Bhavani is tireless in merging, syncing and fixing FTBFS. IMHO there is no need for a debate on whether he should become a MOTU or not! -- <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bilalakhtar|Bilal Akhtar]]</nowiki>

I would question this application. Bhavani is a keen self promoter and has made contributions with questionable background workings. While undoubted a contributor the way he goes about it and the work passed off as his own content is questionable. This is not me saying "no" to membership, this is me raising a concern and question.  -- <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~matt-darcy|ikonia]]</nowiki>

Hello matt, I could not understand what were you referring to.. I ve also made mistakes in the past but I have taken care to correct those mistakes and have come a long way learning something related to ubuntu, If you have any doubts about my contribution I ll step down from my ubuntu membership gladly though and can you please provide a justification of the same --<nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bhavi|Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki>

Bhavani is very huge contributor for Ubuntu development. His issue is not including people work in debian/changelog. I think that every person who has added a change in revision should be mentioned in changelog file. In my opinion it's important when sponsor is working on someone else's patch - sponsor should not ignore contributors work. Next case is why Bhavani links bzr branch to every bug if patch is available through debdiff? For high position in top contributors? I don't care... I would encourage him to more visiting #ubuntu-motu. We are there not only when we are in trouble. As a team we can help other people and discuss about who will take a merge. However, I think that Bhavani is enough expierence with packaging and if sponsors/DMB team don't have objections, I'm +1 for this application. I would like to see the same quantity of work by Bhavani done by himself as a sponsor with upload access! <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ari-tczew]]</nowiki>

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Benjamin Drung ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored around 100 sync requests from Bhavani. He described detailed enough, why the Ubuntu changes could be dropped. I can't remember any serious problems with his requests. Looking at his other work, he is definitively experienced enough to become MOTU. He will be an asset for the team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Here is a list of latest sponsored syncs:

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/drupal6/+bug/594632
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/commons-javaflow/+bug/610524
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/610475
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mobile-broadband-provider-info/+bug/607336
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/octave-signal/+bug/606582
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hkl/+bug/606581
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mgltools-networkeditor/+bug/606367
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/606580
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/capisuite/+bug/606241
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fortune-mod/+bug/604979
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imapsync/+bug/602991
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/egenix-mx-base/+bug/603016
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/drupal6/+bug/594632
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/commons-javaflow/+bug/610524
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/610475
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mobile-broadband-provider-info/+bug/607336
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/octave-signal/+bug/606582
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hkl/+bug/606581
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mgltools-networkeditor/+bug/606367
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/606580
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/capisuite/+bug/606241
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fortune-mod/+bug/604979
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/imapsync/+bug/602991
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/egenix-mx-base/+bug/603016

----
=== Charlie Smotherman ===
==== General feedback ====
Bhavani is a work horse when it comes to doing sync's, merges and fixing FTBFS.  I have sponsored 10 packages for him and his work is of good quality and rarely did I have to ask him to change anything and when I did he was quick to respond.  He works well with other community members and I think he would make a good addition to the team. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Here is a list of sync/merges I have sponsored for Bhavani:

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/508729|508729]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/590836|590836]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/592966|592966]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/604208|604208]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/593242|593242]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/590130|590130]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/597079|597079]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/603663|603663]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/603269|603269]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/603122|603122]]</nowiki>

==== Areas of Improvement ====

The only suggestion I have for Bhavani is to do a couple of SRU's and backports to make himself more familiar with the process.

----

=== Stefano Rivera (tumbleweed) ===
==== General feedback ====

Bhavani's work is technically excellent (and theres a fair amount of it). The only comments I've made in review are merges that could be syncs. I strongly endorse this application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/600129|600129]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/596190|596190]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/598947|598947]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/599245|599245]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/599256|599256]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/599774|599774]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/610149|610149]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/600917|600917]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/609019|609019]]</nowiki> 

==== Areas of Improvement ====

None I can name.

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I think I sponsored around a hundred of Bhavani's changes. The reason I didn't suggest to him earlier to apply for upload rights already was that there were mistakes and oversights in his sponsoring requests every now and then. The quality of his contributions improved over time though.

Bhavani is all over the place. There's hundreds of contributions of his. While we all benefit from synced and merged goodness from Debian and Upstreams, I sometimes think it'd be better to do a bit less with more focus.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
There's 200+ bugs Bhavani and I interacted with and while there's lots of material for simple, good, easy and well-done work, here's a few examples that weren't done so well:

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bzr-gtk/+bug/609019 (request to send improvements upstream, no reply)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aspell/+bug/609646 (request to send improvements upstream, no reply)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nagios3/+bug/603466 (irrelevant merge)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/net-tools/+bug/599795 (request to send improvements upstream, no reply)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cryptsetup/+bug/599311 (question asked, never got a reply)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-pylibacl/+bug/596765 (request to send improvements upstream, no reply)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ircp-tray/+bug/597079 (question asked, never got a reply)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/idesk/+bug/592602 (request send improvements upstream, not in upstream yet)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/skrooge/+bug/594467 (sync requested, overlooked changes that needed merging, when I pointed this out, Bhavani marked the bug invalid instead of solving the problem)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mobile-broadband-provider-info/+bug/512314 (sync requested, was a merge instead)

==== Areas of Improvement ====
I very much appreciate Bhavani's work and as I said: the quality of his contributions improved a lot, but still more attention to detail and more focus stay the primary areas of improvement.

=== Fabrice Coutadeur (fabrice_sp) ===

==== General feedback ====
I sponsored around 120 uploads of Bhavani, most of them, merge or syncs. The quality of what Bhavani submitted increased a lot over the last 6 months, there is still some cases in which he should have been more careful.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Obviously, with 120 uploads, there is a lot of good examples of work.

Some that weren't so well are:
https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/contacts-snapshot/+bug/609066 obsolete package, so removal instead of fixing FTBFS
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ifscheme/+bug/592533 merge request with patches applied 2 times because of debsrc3.0
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mga-vid/+bug/596190 was a merge and ended as a sync as changes was not required anymore
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netkit-rsh/+bug/598395 was a merge and ended as a sync as changes was not required anymore
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/drupal6/+bug/594632 began as a merge and ended as a sync as Debian adopted the patch.
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtkam/+bug/589207 was a merge and ended as a sync as changes was not required anymore
...
==== Areas of Improvement ====
Bhavani should challenge a lot more the previous changes in a merge, and not make a mechanical merge.
Also, submitting the changes to Debian or checking the Debian package should be the first step. This would save him a lot of time. 

--------
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
 <nowiki>[[CategoryMOTUApplication]]</nowiki>
