{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Information ===
<pre>
Full Name: Bhuvaneswaran A
IRC Nick: bhuvan @ irc.freenode.net, #ubuntu-meeting, #ubuntu-doc, #ubuntu-motu
Email Id: bhuvan at NOSPAM ubuntu dot com bhuvan at NOSPAM collab dot net
</pre>

=== Ubuntu Contribution ===

As i wish to learn new things, i am contributing to the documentation team. Currently, i am one of the author of ServerGuide. I am responsible to make changes to ServerGuide to fit in the new Help system and release it with FeistyFawn. ServerGuide <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/|Preview]]</nowiki> is available. If you wish to contribute, please refer the <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/status/sg-report.html|status]]</nowiki> page. I have been contributing patches & wiki pages. Couple of my initial contributions are listed below. Please refer to the commit log messages of docteam Subversion repository for more details:

==== Patches ====
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001675.html|About Ubuntu Validation Patch]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001674.html|Ubuntu Quicktour Validation Patch]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001661.html|Style Sheet for Ubuntu Quicktour]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001653.html|Server Guide Initial Draft]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001636.html|XML Document for Ubuntu Quicktour]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001634.html|XML Document for Kubuntu Quicktour]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001591.html|OMF for ServerGuide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001583.html|Validate breezy Kubuntu QuickGuide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001571.html|Make for Installation & Network Guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001568.html|XSLT template for Installation Guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001566.html|XSLT template for Server Guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001565.html|Make for Server Guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001550.html|Validate Kubuntu FAQGuide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001549.html|Server Guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-November/001541.html|Kubuntu Releasenotes guide]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc-commits/2005-October/001531.html|New links for sidebar script]]</nowiki>

==== Wiki Pages ====

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mailman|Mailman]]</nowiki>
** SubVersion
** ServerGuide
** DocteamProjects
** DocteamKubuntu

==== Bugzilla ====

* <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=19412|IRC Logs]]</nowiki>

Based on the direction & responsibility, i will contribute addition/modification to docbook based ubuntu documentation. Consistently, I can spend time to contribute to ubuntu linux.

=== Other Open source Contribution ===

I am one of the partial committer for <nowiki>[[http://subversion.tigris.org|Subversion project]]</nowiki>. Please refer to the <nowiki>[[http://www.red-bean.com/svnproject/contribulyzer/|Subversion contributors]]</nowiki> page for list of contributions I have made so far for this project.

For details about me, please visit <nowiki>[[http://www.livecipher.com|my website]]</nowiki>.
----
CategoryHomepage
