{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

BibleTime is a Bible program which runs under almost any Linux and is focused on the <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/|KDE]]</nowiki> window manager rather than <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki> (as <nowiki>[[Xiphos]]</nowiki> is). It is included as a component of <nowiki>[[DerivativeTeam-Derivatives-ChristianUbuntu|ChristianUbuntu]]</nowiki>.

=== Part of Sword ===

BibleTime is a sub-project of the <nowiki>[[http://www.crosswire.org/sword/|Sword]]</nowiki> Bible access project, which provides the basic library files, <nowiki>[[http://www.crosswire.org/sword/modules/ModDisp.jsp?modType=Bibles|assorted free Bible texts]]</nowiki>, access to not-so-free Bible texts, Bible access programs ("clients") for Linux, Macintosh, Windows and other platforms.

The <nowiki>[[http://www.bibletime.info/|BibleTime sub-project]]</nowiki> is hosted at <nowiki>[[http://www.sf.net/|SourceForge]]</nowiki>.

=== Ethos ===

&ldquo;Did you know that today in 2009, more than 200,000,000 Christians are being disadvantaged, persecuted and even killed because of their faith? There is a map (German) showing the countries where people have to "pay" for their faith, and there is also an English one that has some information about the main regions worldwide. These pages are from Open Doors, an independent organization that tries to help persecuted Christians.&rdquo;

BibleTime is a Bible study application built with Qt4, using the Sword programming library to work with Bible texts, commentaries, dictionaries and books provided by the Crosswire Bible Society.
