{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''<nowiki>[[http://bibus-biblio.sourceforge.net|Bibus]]</nowiki> is a bibliographic database whose "ultimate" goal is to have an opensource bibliographic software that will allow easy formatting (and reformatting) of the bibliographic index in OpenOffice.org Writer.'''
* entirely written in python, using the cross-platform wxWidget library
* there is an official Debian package available
* aimed at UbuntuScientists

== Installation ==
For Ubuntu Karmic users, bibus is available in the repository. For earlier releases, you still have to do some manual work.

=== Install bibus on Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 ===
This paragraph is a modified copy of document in bibus wiki. http://bibus-biblio.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Installation#Ubuntu

Add here to make it more convenient for user who wants to install bibus.

* Add the following lines to your /etc/apt/sources.list

Note - You'll need to use sudo command to add content to this file i.e. sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
<pre>
 deb http://switch.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/bibus-biblio ./
 deb-src http://switch.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/bibus-biblio ./
</pre>
* Download the public key with the following command:
<pre>
wget -q http://switch.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/bibus-biblio/pmartino.gpgkey -O- | sudo apt-key add -
</pre>
* apt-get update
* sudo apt-get install bibus libsqliteodbc python-pysqlite2 python-wxgtk2.6 python-uno

=== Install bibus on Ubuntu Dapper 6.06 ===
* add to your apt repositories list (Synaptic/config or in /etc/apt/sources.list) the line :
    deb http://switch.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/bibus-biblio ./
* install 'bibus'
* start bibus, Help/first connection : setup connection
==== for MySQL dbm ====
* create eg. bibus table and bibus user
* create bibus db schema (table structure) by executing part of /usr/share/bibus/db_models/mysql_41.sql

=== Install bibus 1.1.1-1 on Ubuntu breezy 5.10 ===
* download the package :
   wget http://switch.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/bibus-biblio/bibus_1.1.1-1_all.deb
* install manually bibus_1.1.1-1 :
   sudo dpkg -i --force-all bibus_1.1.1-1_all.deb
* problem : the package is broken for next upgrades
See also
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=122841|small how-to about ]]</nowiki>

== Bibus in Ubuntu forum threads ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=50762&highlight=bibus|Bibus Ubuntu Howto]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=49155&highlight=bibus|Bibus Install problem]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=43144&highlight=bibus|Help with Bibus/Bibliography Software!]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=44432&highlight=bibus|bibus up and running?]]</nowiki>
