{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Ștefănescu Cristian, but most of the local Linux communities know me as big_bum.

I'm an 23 years old computer passionate who lives in Romania. I love almost everything that involves technology and includes Linux, Android and OSS.

I also like photography since I was a little boy, and if you ever wondered who made the picture that is on <nowiki>[[http://community.ubuntu.com/contribute/|Ubuntu Community page]]</nowiki>, you now know that I was the one who clicked the shutter button.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| big_bum
|-
| Google+
| https://plus.google.com/+CristianȘtefănescu/
|-
| Email
| howerkraft [at] gmail.com
|-
| Website (running on a Pi)
| http://big-bum.uni.cx
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~howerkraft
|}

=== Contributions ===
'''Ubuntu:'''
* I build a modified kernel for Ubuntu users. You can find more details <nowiki>[[https://pf.natalenko.name/forum/index.php?topic=237.0|here]]</nowiki>
* in the past I used to translate some Ubuntu packages in Launchpad
* active member on the local Ubuntu forum

'''Android'''
* I build and distribute a custom kernel for the Nexus 5.

=== Future Goals ===
* promote Ubuntu in schools and faculties
* be more active in launchpad
* learn some code and contribute to upstream
