{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

My name is Primož Ajdišek but most people on internet know me as bigpod. I am a part of Ubuntu MATE team as a package maintainer.

I also have a youtube channel where I do videos and streams about servers, containerisation and programming mainly in C# including promoting and using ubuntu in all these scenarios. 
=== Contact info ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Youtube Channel
| 
| https://youtube.com/bigpod
|-
| IRC
| 
| bigpod
|-
| EMail
| 
| ajdisek.primoz@gmail.com
|-
| Twitter
| https://twitter.com/Bigpod98
|}

=== Contributions ===

* I am a member of the Ubuntu Mate Team where i lead the effort to automate building of master branch of Mate desktop packages for testing by Ubuntu MATE QA Team. One part of that effort can be found in Ubuntu MATE's Github repository <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ubuntu-mate/daily-brew|DailyBrew]]</nowiki>.
* I also help users of Ubuntu and linux in general who come to Discord server Ubuntu MATE team calls home and other chat rooms.

=== Future Goals ===
* Help make sure that new users fell welcome in Linux community.
* Do more to promote usage of Ubuntu as a all purpose operating systems.
* To do more on promoting ubuntu as a RootFS image for containers.
* One of my future goals is to contribute more in the capacity as packager.

=== Testimonials ===
Note: If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces). The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

bigpod has been an active member of the Ubuntu MATE team for some time now focused on integrating packaging with CI/CD to provide continuous build testing. More recently bigpod has been doing "let's code" live streams to demonstrate C# development on Ubuntu. I endorse this application not only for what bigpod has already contributed but also for his aspirations for future advocacy -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:flexiondotorg]]</nowiki> 
bigpod is a great guy, always keen to help, or, when he can't directly do so, to send people in the right direction. He is very active in the Ubuntu MATE community, where he does a great job with the packaging of applications. He would make a great addition to the Ubuntu Members group. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:yannick-mauray]]</nowiki> 
bigpod has become such an eager and enthusiastic member of the Ubuntu MATE team, and one thing I appreciate the most about him is his willingness and excitement to learn new skills to make even more contributions. Recently, he's begun live coding streams, and he is a regular source of support when anyone else on the team does likewise. I enthusiastically support his application, and I look forward to seeing what he does in the future! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:madhens]]</nowiki> 