{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Bilal Akhtar, apply for universe-contributor.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Bilal Akhtar
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bilalakhtar|bilalakhtar]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[BilalAkhtar]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a high-school student greatly interested in Ubuntu and its development. I am an Indian national, yet I live in Saudi Arabia. Began programming at the age of 9 and gave up gaming at that age as well. Right now, I am 14 years old. Began Ubuntu development work 8 months ago, with packaging learning.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I began using Ubuntu in late 2007, with Gutsy. Have tried Hardy, Intrepid, Jaunty, Karmic, Lucid and Maverick. I first heard about Ubuntu in early 2007 in a PC World magazine. Installed it when my cousin brother suggested "It will be good for you and your slow computer". I was surprised to see so cool desktop effects on my slow Pentium 4 computer. Got interested in Ubuntu development. Began translating, then bug reporting, then bug fixing (now from the last 6 months)!.

=== My involvement ===
I am involved in Ubuntu Packaging and Development (of course). Apart from that, I am involved in the Saudi Arabia LoCo Team, Translations, Ubuntu Technical Answers on Launchpad, bug triaging, etc. In other words, this application doubles up as a membership application.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I have done the following merges:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/595450

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/609697

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/596279

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/595398

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/601865

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/602564

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/602686

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/605350

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/603595

Syncs:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/606610

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/595635 

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/610024

Bug fixes:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/465967 (forwarded to Debian)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/480661 (forwarded upstream)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/325288 (forwarded to Debian and upstream)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/606212 (no need to forward)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/550955 (accepted upstream)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/155930 (accepted upstream)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/585892 (accepted upstream)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/492825 (accepted upstream)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/599799 (no need to forward)

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/569289 (forwarded upstream)

New packages:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/551702

Package upgrades:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/606870 

Bug fixes still waiting in sponsor queue:

* https://edge.launchpad.net/bugs/545596

Apart from Ubuntu, I am the upstream developer of <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/gnome-media-player|GNOME Media Player]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/qstream|qstream]]</nowiki>.

=== Things I could do better ===
I have never worked on SRUs so that is a place where I have scope for improvement.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I want to fix more and more papercuts and other bugs. Many trivial bugs are neglected and never fixed, even after years. I would dedicate myself to fix these bugs.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
Ubuntu is awesome! Just like what I mentioned above, I would fix trivial bugs. These hard-to-notice bugs do spoil user experience. 

Also, REVU and needs-packaging bugs are always neglected. This is something I don't like in Ubuntu. I have 4 packages awaiting sponsorship in REVU. 
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

Bilal is doing great work with gnome media player but needs to be a bit more careful while handling merges as I have seen reviewing his patches. apart from that he is a great ubuntu enthusiast but needs to slow down a bit to  produce even better work --<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bhavi | Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki>

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ===
==== General feedback ====
I think Bilal would make a fine Contributing Developer. Good work overall, very active.
==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mnemosyne/+bug/602564 (also fixed https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mnemosyne/+bug/465967) (merge+bugfix)
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mimms/+bug/595635 (merge → sync because of unnecessary changes)
==== Areas of Improvement ====
More experience, which is something Bilal is actively working on.

=== Stefano Rivera (stefanor/tumbleweed) ===
==== General feedback ====
I've sponsored a few uploads, most required a few rounds of review, but his work is good. While I've only sponsored a few packages, I think the membership badge is deserved.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gpsdrive/+bug/325288 (bug fix)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mimms/+bug/595635 (merge, became sync)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krename/+bug/601865 (merge)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/selinux-basics/+bug/603595 (merge)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pysdm/+bug/606212 (papercut)
* https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uswsusp/+bug/604910 (sync, became merge, was rejected, pending merge again)

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Experience, will come with time.

=== Michael Vogt (mvo) ===

==== General feedback ====
I've merged two of his branches. Both required a little bit of changes, but both times the idea and and way to attack the problem were right, just details that needed additional attention. I think he will make a good developer and I would recommend using code-review/peer-review to gather experience. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
https://code.launchpad.net/~bilalakhtar/ubuntu/maverick/software-center/papercut-fix-550955
https://code.launchpad.net/~bilalakhtar/ubuntu/maverick/synaptic/papercut-fix-155930

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I can just repreat what the others wrote, experience will come with time and faster by seeking review/feedback/advice on more difficult patches/merges (something that  Bilal is doing already).

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
