{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Getting IPOD to work ==
After a lot of time playing with this - and all the many packages that are available have found what works for me at least. I was mainly interested in getting video & podcasts onto my 30G IPOD. After a couple of false starts including some factory resets (be warned!) here is what I have now. 

* kitty - has nice interface to browse yahoo podcast and other sites to search for podcasts.
* gpodder as podcast catcher and sync agent (also need to install python-pymad & python-gpod for syncing to IPOD).
* For transferring music onto IPOD - using Amarok (as this is what I use to manage music collection.

Ubuntu Laptop tests - m1210
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/DellXPSM1210

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTesting

== Ubuntu on Dell m1210 ==

All went VERY smoothly
Version: ''Feisty Fawn 7.04''<<BR>>
I had decided to disregard the Dell MediaDirect software (is not so fast to load - easier to bring laptop back from 'suspend to ram' than load it. Made the machine dual boot, leaving Grub to default location presuming Dell MediaDirect would no longer work. But when I press Media direct button with laptop off - MediaDirect starts. With ubuntu running Rhythm box loads. perfect!

=== Nice things that Just Worked ===
 1. Scrolling on touchpad (both horizontal & vertical)
 2. Webcam works with driver vl2 in Ekiga. (though it gets hot ??!)
 3. Blue media buttons on front (volume, stop, play etc...) worked after install
 4. Didn't kill MediaDirect (not sure I want but good to be left with choice...)
 5. Battery life is about 3hours - which is better than I was expecting under linux.

=== Things that needed some attention ===

 1.Screen resolution.
 Need to install package: 915resolution
Then:
915resolution 

Still cannot get the wireless to wake up after turning off with hardware switch on right hand side.
