{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is '''BinLi''', I live in Beijing, China. From 2013 to the present I'm working for Canonical as Linux developer in OEM team, and I worked in SUSE about 5 years in SLED Team.

And in spare time, I'm an volunteer of Beijing GNOME User Group(http://www.bjgug.org), to spread GNOME in Beijing and Asia, I'm a member of GNOME Foundation, openSUSE community and GNOME.Asia Committee. In 2014 I was one of organizers of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.gnome.org/GnomeAsia/2014Summit/|GNOME.Asia Summit in Beijing]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| BinLi
|-
| GTalk
| libin.charles AT gmail DOT com
|-
| Email
| binli AT gnome DOT org
|-
| Website
| http://binli.github.io
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~binli
|}

=== Contributions ===

* I'm a user of Ubuntu more than 10 years, I reported <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~binli/+reportedbugs|many bugs]]</nowiki> when I found an issue.

* Fixing bugs with patches.
** <nowiki>[[https://gitlab.gnome.org/binli/desktop-icons/-/commit/7f225feea74dab2bca97e91c3c06461130bbf718|desktop icons are missing]]</nowiki>

* New features in ubuntu. 
** <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/binli/tlp/-/commit/ac2941b0176445e2400b24b5815d8c12ce7b066e | tlp compatible with power-profile-daemon]]</nowiki>, merged into jammy by seb128.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/1966178|Screen-privacy support in jammy]]</nowiki>, helped verify the new feature and backported some kernel patches.

* Pushing some fixes from <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/oem-priority|OEM projects]]</nowiki> into stock ubuntu.
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/oem-priority/+bug/1931514| The NVIDIA X server Settings is blank when under Intel mode ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/oem-priority/+bug/1921991| Support isdv4-aes stylus group and multiple AES stylus definitions ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/oem-priority/+bug/1774242| Wacom touchscreens should disable gestures]]</nowiki>

=== Future Goals ===

* Hope could be a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDevelopers |UbuntuDevelopers ]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
