{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 18.04 Bionic Beaver ==

Please see <nowiki>[[BionicBeaver-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Xubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/18.04/release-notes | Xubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

<<BR>>
== Getting Ubuntu Studio Bionic Beaver (18.04) ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/18.04/release/ | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops/netbooks]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/18.04/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

<<BR>>
== Changes for this release (compared to Artful Aardvark) ==

=== Audio ===

* Ardour DAW upgraded to version 5.12.0
* qtractor DAW upgraded to version 0.8.5
* Yoshimi synthesizer upgrated to version 1.5.6

=== Graphics ===

* Blender upgraded to version 2.79
* GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP) upgraded to version 2.8.22

=== Publishing ===

* no changes

=== Video ===

* kdenlive upgraded to version 4:17.12.3
* openshot upgraded to version 2.4.1

<<BR>>
== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.79.b
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v17.12.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v4.0.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.8.22
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjackctl | qJackCtl]]</nowiki> v0.4.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v5.12.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.4.6
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v2.4.2 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi]]</nowiki> v0.99.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v0.92.3

<<BR>>
== Known Problems ==

* A problem has been discovered related to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-volumed/+bug/1291855|this bug in xfce4-volumed]]</nowiki> where a user's hardware volume keys will not respond after restarting !PulseAudio, such as when starting and stopping Jack. Only workaround is running the following in a terminal:

`killall xfce4-volumed && xfce4-volumed`

* Timidity (not installed by default) has been known to cause problems with audio configurations on Ubuntu and will lock-up ALSA.

* Ubuntu Studio uses the same XFCE desktop environment as the official Xubuntu release, and thus, may be affected by some of the same issues.  This is also true of the core packages of the mainline Ubuntu release.  You can see their release notes <nowiki>[[https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/18.04/release-notes|here]]</nowiki> (Xubuntu) and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu)

<<BR>>
== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio Bionic Beaver (18.04) will be supported for 9 months until February 2019. If you need Long Term Support, it is recommended you use <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio | Ubuntu Studio Xenial 16.04 LTS]]</nowiki> instead.

<<BR>>
== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
