{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Biostar TF8200 A2+ Will not boot Gentoo graphic install disk. No distribution except Sabayon correcly recognized the onboard nVidia GF8200 video. Ubuntu's proprietary nVideo driver trashes the system if loaded. The nVidea driver can be manually loaded per instructions in the Ubuntu forum but the next X system update will trash the driver. None of the five+ distributions will correctly handle the onboard ALC888S audio. Personally, I feel that the ALC888S would work but dmesg shows the nvidea chipset in combination with the ALC88S as unrecognized. All distributions play distorted audio (XP works fine) and some play, like Mint minime play no audio at all. This is NOT a good Linux board!
-----------------------
Model
Brand 	BIOSTAR
Model 	TForce TF8200 A2+
Supported CPU
CPU Socket Type 	AM2+/AM2
CPU Type 	Phenom / Athlon 64 X2 / Sempron
FSB 	2600MHz Hyper Transport (5200 MT/s)
Chipsets
North Bridge 	NVIDIA GeForce 8200
Memory
Number of Memory Slots 	4×240pin
Memory Standard 	DDR2 1066
Maximum Memory Supported 	16GB
Dual Channel Supported 	Yes
Expansion Slots
PCI Express 2.0 x16 	1
PCI Express x1 	2
PCI Slots 	3
Other Slots 	1 x M.D.V. Slot
Storage Devices
PATA 	1 x ATA100 2 Dev. Max
SATA 3Gb/s 	6
SATA RAID 	0/1/0+1/5
Onboard Video
Onboard Video Chipset 	NVIDIA GeForce 8 series
Onboard Audio
Audio Chipset 	Realtek ALC888
Audio Channels 	8 Channels
Onboard LAN
LAN Chipset 	Realtek 8111C
Max LAN Speed 	10/100/1000Mbps
Rear Panel Ports
PS/2 	2
Video Ports 	D-Sub + DVI
HDMI 	1 x HDMI
USB 	4 x USB 2.0
Audio Ports 	6 Ports
Onboard USB
Onboard USB 	4 x USB 2.0 Header
Physical Spec
Form Factor 	ATX
Dimensions 	12.0" x 9.6"
Power Pin 	24 Pin
