{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This Board works perfectly under Edgy Eft. Everything was detected, sound quality was excellent. The only requirement after install was to get the Nvidia glx drivers (Automatix2 works well for this).

This is a suprisingly good board for Linux too- 100% integration and if you have the memory... 256mb of video! Highly recommended for the builder on a budget.

The going price as of last quarter for this board is : $55.00

I used an ATHLON XP 3500+ with this board and 1280mb of DDR400

---------------------------
Motherboard Specifications 	

Form Factor 	
microATX 	
	
Processors Supported 	
AMD Athlon 64 FX
AMD Sempron
AMD Athlon 64 X2
AMD Athlon 64 	
	
Front Side Bus 	
1000MHz 	
	
Additional Technologies 	
HyperTransport Technology 	
	Dimensions 	
	
Length 	
9.645 in. (24.45 cm) 	
	
Width 	
9.626 in. (24.5 cm) 	
	Chipset 	
	
Northbridge 	
nVIDIA GeForce 6100 	
	
Southbridge 	
nVIDIA nForce 410 	
	
-------------------------
Memory 

	
	
Number of Slots 	
4 	
	
Number of Pins 	
184-Pin 	
	
Maximum Memory Supported 	
4GB - 32bit 	
	
Memory Supported 	
DDR333 (PC2700)
DDR400 (PC3200) 	
	Audio 	
	
Channels 	
6 Channels 	
	
Audio Chipset 	
Realtek ALC655 	
	
------------------------
USB 	

USB Version 	
2.0 	
	
USB Data Transfer Rates 	
480Mbps 	
	

---------------- 	
	
LAN

LAN Type 	
10/100Mbps 	
	
Port Type 	
RJ-45 	

------------------------
I/O Ports 

	
PS/2 Keyboard Connectors
1 	
	
PS/2 Mouse Connectors	
1 	
	
Serial Communication Ports 	
1 	
	
Parallel Ports Learn More 	
1 	
	
USB Ports 	
6 	
	
LAN Ports 	
1 	
	
Audio Out Jacks 	
1 	
	
Line In Jacks 	
1 	
	
Microphone Jacks 	
1 	
	
CD-In Headers 	
1 	
	
IDE Headers 	
2 	
	
FDD Headers 	
1 	
	
ATX Power Connectors 	
1 24-Pin Connector 	
	
PC Power Connectors 	
1 	
	
Fan Connectors 	
2 	
	
VGA Ports 	
1 	
	
Serial ATA 3.0Gb/s Headers 	
2 Expansion Slots 	
	
PCI Slots 	
2 	
	
PCI Express X1 Slots 	
1 	
	
PCI Express X16 Slots 	
1 	

--------------------------
IDE 	
	
Supported Devices 	
4 	
	
Hard Drive Types 	
ATA/133
