{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This Board works perfectly under Dapper, Edgy, Feisty, Gutsy, and Hardy. 

After installing any of the above versions the only requirement was to install the Nvidia glx, or glx new drivers using synaptic.  

Upon further testing all hardware used, and included on the board were detected, sound quality was great, as well.
---------------------------
Hardware used:

ATHLON 64 3000+

Optron 148 

ATHLON x2 3800+

NEC 3500A

40GB 2.5" ide

1.5GB DDR400

---------------------------
Motherboard Specifications 	

Form Factor 	
microATX 	
	
Processors Supported 	
AMD Athlon 64 FX
AMD Sempron
AMD Athlon 64 X2
AMD Athlon 64 	
	
Front Side Bus 	
1000MHz 	
	
Additional Technologies 	
HyperTransport Technology 	
Dimensions 	
	
Length 	
9.6" in. 	
	
Width 	
9.6" in. 	
Chipset 	

Northbridge 	
nVIDIA GeForce 6100 	
	
Southbridge 	
nVIDIA nForce 410 	
	
-------------------------
Memory 

Number of Slots 	
4 	
	
Number of Pins 	
184-Pin 	
	
Maximum Memory Supported 	
4GB - 32bit 	
	
Memory Supported 	
DDR333 (PC2700)
DDR400 (PC3200) 	

Audio 	
Channels 	
6 Channels 	
	
Audio Chipset 	
Realtek ALC655 	
	
------------------------
USB 	

USB Version 	
2.0 	
	
USB Data Transfer Rates 	
480Mbps 	
	

---------------- 	
	
LAN chip
Realtek 8201BL PHY 

LAN Speed 	
10/100Mbps 	
	
Port Type 	
RJ-45 	

------------------------
I/O Ports 

	
PS/2 Keyboard Connectors
1 	
	
PS/2 Mouse Connectors	
1 	
	
Serial Communication Ports 	
1 	
	
Parallel Ports Learn More 	
1 	
	
USB Ports 	
4 on rear plus two connectors on the board
	
LAN Ports 	
1 	
	
Audio Out Jacks 	
1 	
	
Line In Jacks 	
1 	
	
Microphone Jacks 	
1 	
	
CD-In Headers 	
1 	
	
IDE Headers 	
2 	
	
FDD Headers 	
1 	
	
ATX Power Connectors 	
1 24-Pin Connector 	
	
PC Power Connectors 	
1 	
	
Fan Connectors 	
2 plus one cpu fan connector	
	
VGA Ports 	
1 	
	
Serial ATA 3.0Gb/s Headers 	
2 Expansion Slots 	
	
PCI Slots 	
2 	
	
PCI Express X1 Slots 	
1 	
	
PCI Express X16 Slots 	
1 	

--------------------------
IDE 	
	
Supported Devices 	
4 	
	
Hard Drive Types 	
ATA/133
