{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== BitTornado ==
<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTornado| For details see also wikipedia.]]</nowiki>

BitTornado can be reached on the <nowiki>[[http://www.bittornado.com/|BitTornado-homepage]]</nowiki>.
The corresponding installation-packages are overviewed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bittornado|here]]</nowiki>.

For Ubuntu 9.10 a more detailed desription is located <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/bittornado |here]]</nowiki>.

=== Basic Idea ===
BitTornado is a deamon for tracking and downloading torrents. Bittornado does not require an instance of an x-server session. Hence Bittornado can be run in the shell completely.
This ability makes BitTornado attractive to be run in a server or in the background of desktops.

=== Advanced Usage ===
As the commandline may not be very handsome to use, there are existing clients to connect to the deamon and control it.
This means, a user can connect to the BitTornado with additional software to the client from a different PC and manage his 'downloads' from there.

==== Alternatives ====
There are other BitTorrent clients working in a similar way:
-<nowiki>[[http://mldonkey.sourceforge.net/Main_Page |MLDonkey Project]]</nowiki>
