{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Benjamin Kerensa, apply for Ubuntu Contributing Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Benjamin Kerensa
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bkerensa|bkerensa]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[bkerensa]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
I am a Open Source Hacker who has a love for contributing to Open Source with a emphasis on contributing to the Ubuntu, Debian, Mozilla, OpenPhoto and Thunderbird Communities. I'm currently a Community Manager for The Open Photo Project where I focus on developer relations and relationships with service providers who support our platform.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I began using Ubuntu in early 2009 and had been using Linux as early as 2000. For a period of time I had lurked on the Ubuntu Forums and IRC under long disposed of monikers but in 2010 started getting involved in the Oregon Local Community and soon thereafter applying for membership after reviving the LoCo.

=== My involvement ===
I am involved in Ubuntu Development focusing my attention on various MOTU Tasks and getting patches introduced into Ubuntu and upstream. I'm also co-maintainer of one package in Debian.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
Bug Fixes:

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/snort/+bug/889721

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/git/+bug/879427

* https://code.launchpad.net/~bkerensa/ubuntu/quantal/task/fix-for-1032861

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/sessioninstaller/+bug/988775

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/task/+bug/1032861

* https://code.launchpad.net/~bkerensa/ubuntu/raring/app-install-data-ubuntu/fix-for-depends

New packages:
To be added

Package upgrades:
To be added

Bug fixes still waiting in sponsor queue:
To be added

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
 

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
