{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Request ===

I would like to transfer my membership to Kubuntu.

My former Ubuntu Membership application can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/bkerensa/Membership_Application|here]]</nowiki> (I received unanimous +1 on it without questions) 

=== About Me ===

Hello, I'm Benjamin Kerensa a Free Software Advocate and Contributor to many Open Source projects in my spare time I enjoy photography and public speaking. 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| bkerensa
|-
| Email
| bkerensa@ubuntu.com
|-
| Website
| http://benjaminkerensa.com
|}

=== Contributions ===
{*} Ubuntu Contributor for over seven years.

{*} Formerly Ubuntu Documentation Interim Leadership

{*} Ubuntu Member in Good Standing since 2011.

{*} Ubuntu Membership Board Member for One Term

{*} Ubuntu Contributing Developer in Good Standing since 2013 having shown ''significant and sustained'' contributions in the area of <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment]]</nowiki>.

{*} Member of Ubuntu Review Team

{*} Member of Ubuntu BugSquad

{*} Member of OpenStack Team and OpenStack Member

{*} Member of OpenPOWER Foundation 

{*} Member of Tomahawk Player Team

{*} Debian Co-Maintainer of (1) Package

{*} Debian Contributor

{*} Former Firefox Release Manager (Two Years) 

{*} Have contributed to packages directly and that indirectly support not only Ubuntu but all flavors

=== Future Goals ===

{*} Contribute more formally and directly to the Kubuntu Project

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

As I said originally, I met Ben at OSCON when we staffed the Ubuntu booth together years ago. I was inspired by his energy and willingness to ask for and leverage resources for Oregon LoCo. I look forward to working with him on again in Kubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> 