{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Benjamin Kerensa, apply for upload rights for package(s) firefox and for membership on the Ubuntu Mozilla Team.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Benjamin Kerensa
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~bkerensa
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/bkerensa
|}

== Who I am ==
''My name is Benjamin Kerensa and I'm a bit of a generalist developer contributing where its needed both in Ubuntu and in various upstream projects. I'm also on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.mozilla.org/Release_Management/Team_members|Firefox Release Management Team]]</nowiki>, A Mozilla.org Commiter and the release owner of Firefox ESR and Nightly. Finally, I am also a Ubuntu Contributing Developer.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''I got involved several years ago contributing on IRC and then in 2011 decided to attempt to revive my LoCo My first contributions were in the LoCo's and grew from there to Docs, Bugs, QA and Development.''

=== My involvement ===
* organizing global jams

* advocating for university students to get involved in development

* organizing the Ubuntu Doc Team which had went mostly inactive

* served on Ubuntu Membership Board

* served on IRC Operator Team

* current Ubuntu Doc Core Committer

* current Ubuntu Contributing Developer

* current Ubuntu Review Team Member

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I'm proud of the work I have had <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=email&sponsoree=Benjamin+Kerensa&sponsoree_search=name|sponsored]]</nowiki> for upload in Ubuntu and the contributions I have made upstream to Debian and other projects.

=== Areas of work ===

I've worked on packages where it was needed specifically focusing on housekeeping like bugs that were low hanging and not being addressed since other things were taking higher priority of our developers.

=== Things I could do better ===

I think there is always room for growth in my packaging knowledge and so its one of my goals to continue to grow there and grow knowledge in various languages I work with in packages.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

Become a Debian Maintainer and continue to grow my contributions in Debian and Ubuntu Development.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

I'm not a big fan of Unity Scopes/Lenses fwiw.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I haven't sponsored any of Benjamin's packages yet, but I've found him to be respectful to processes, trustworthy and pays attention to detail when dealing with any technical issue. I'm confident in trusting Benjamin with these two packages.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jonathan]]</nowiki> 
Benjamin is a great asset for the Ubuntu community. He's respectful, hardworking, and collaborative. Even though I haven't sponsored any of his packages, I'm sure that he will be responsible with upload rights to these two packages. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bilalakhtar]]</nowiki> 
=== Martin Pitt ===

I haven't sponsored too much for Benjamin so far. The most recent one was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/1.2.0-1ubuntu3|xfce-power-manager]]</nowiki>, then <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-docs/13.04.1|ubuntu-docs in raring]]</nowiki>, and then two relatively simple uploads in precise (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/audiofile/0.3.2-0ubuntu4|audiofile]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/snort/2.8.5.2-9.1ubuntu2|snort]]</nowiki>). These were all fine. Thanks!

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 
----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
