{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Contributions to the Community ==

=== Ubuntu Advocacy & Outreach ===

 {*} I started volunteering at FreeGeek in 2010 where I worked on building FreekBoxes which run Ubuntu LTS and go to good causes like low income families and non-profits.

 {*} I have been working to advocate for FreeGeek to continue to ship Ubuntu as it's operating system on all devices it distributes which could be difficult with Unity.

 {*} Working with FreeGeek to start offering Ubuntu Beginner and Advanced classes which will I will teach.

 {*} Working closely with Salem LUG to try and revive their user group which has become dormant.

 {*} Working to advocate for Ubuntu with OSU LUG and PLUG offering them any resources I can.

=== Ubuntu Oregon LoCo Involvement ===

 {*} Ubuntu Oregon Team Lead

 {*} Currently working to kickstart the LoCo which had become dormant and had two previous Team Lead's who gave up or did not have the time to continue. 

 {*} Increased IRC participation from 2-3 IRC users to 20+

 {*} Ran OSCON 2011 Ubuntu Booth in cooperation with Ubuntu Washington LoCo

 {*} Active Ubuntu Oregon LoCo member, and coordinator of the 2011 Ubuntu Global Jam

 {*} Active member/lead of Ubuntu PNW LoCo which is currently converting to coordinate LoCo work with Oregon, Washington and Idaho LoCo.

 {*} Very outspoken Ubuntu advocate who is called the "Ubuntu Evangelist" by various lug users in Oregon.

 {*} Regularly travel to install Ubuntu on individuals laptops or desktops and provide them a basic understanding of what Ubuntu is and how to learn more through the LoCo.

=== Ubuntu Bugs Involvement ===

{*} I continue to help triage bugs and also encourage and teach others how to effectively report bugs.

=== Ubuntu Documentation Involvement ===

{*} Contributed to multiple releases documentation
{*} Contributed to release notes for three cycles
{*} Revived the Ubuntu Documentation Team after former lead departed

=== Ubuntu Development Involvement ===
{*} I'm a Ubuntu Contributing Developer and Debian Co-Maintainer having worked on bugs in Ubuntu and it's flavors plus upstream in Debian and other upstream projects. 

=== Upstream Involvement ===
{*} I'm involved in various upstream projects in a variety of capacities.

=== Ubuntu IRC/Forums Involvement ===

{*} Active Participant in multiple channels where I keep regular communications with teams I am apart of and additionally provide support occasionally in #Ubuntu and #Ubuntu-Server and help out in other channels where needed when nobody else is available.

=== Ubuntu Americas Involvement ===
{*} Contributed one post so far to Ubuntu-us.org although have plans to continue to contribute long-term as other things priorities are accomplished.
