{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
Hi everyone

thought I'd make a little page about me, just in case someone would ever bother to look up my personal page. I'm quite new to ubuntu, but I loved it right from the start. It wasn't my first contact with linux, before Ubuntu I had used linux shells on the web a few times, creating a website, running an eggdrop, stuff like that. Then I had once installed some linux distro, but never really made the switch, because there were too many things that didn't work on it like I wanted them to. Pretty soon my dual boot didn't serve much purpose, since it was always booting Windows. Currently I found ubuntu, and I have it both on my laptop and my desktop PC in a dual boot with Windows XP currently, both automatically booting Ubuntu, unless I interrupt.

There are 2 reasons why I haven't made the switch to Linux completely. First is that I simply do not know enough about it, how to use it, how to fix things, etc to rely on linux completely. The second reason is Games. I love to play games (FPS mainly), and most of them don't work under linux. 

=== Apologies ===
I may as wel just apologise right here and now. I have made a wiki-page, I might be editing some pages, but I doubt that everyone will think my editing is completely OK. So I apologise for that. I'm quite new to both linux and wiki-editing, but I'm doing my best. I hope you can forgive me. 

GRTZ
