{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Frogs Hair - Ubuntu Membership 

=== About Me ===

I am  a working student from the Midwestern United States and have been using Ubuntu /Linux since 2010 starting with 9.10. I joined the Ubuntu Wisconsin Lo Co Team in April 2012. The bulk of my of my work experience is commercial electronics manufacturing for a company  provides non consumer completed assemblies to  other companies.I also have many hobbies and some include mountain biking , fishing , computers, and playing guitar.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| frogshair@irc
|-
| Email
| tdavid@gmx.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~detaill
|-
| Ubuntu User
| #31515
|}
=== Contributions ===

I began my Ubuntu journey by a reading review and installed 9.10 via Wubi and quickly moved to a dual boot.  One day I just left the community cafe on the Ubuntu Forums and started contributing to help forums which has become habit and it is my wish to continue doing so.I Visit the Ubuntu Forums daily and try to help as much my knowledge of Linux allows. I have installed beta releases and sent reports on the 12.04 and 12.10 releases. I enjoy helping new users with customizing there new desktops.         

=== Future Goals ===

Future goals include  increasing my knowledge of Ubuntu /Linux with the help of Ubuntu community members and documentation. It is my goal to improve my ability to help others within to forum community and perhaps beyond. I will continue make an effort to learn about the many new desktop enviroments available to Ubuntu users and assist when possible.    
=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
