{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Welcome ==
Hi!

Im blake 16 Australia. I've been using ubuntu for about 6 months now. i think it is the best linux distro i've used.

== About Me ==
=== Why I like Ubuntu ===
Its '''FREE'''. I like the fact that all the software is free and the range of software is wonderful. Its has every pice of software i need.

=== How i found ubuntu ===
In 2004 i install redhat on a mechine. It was like a foreign film without subtitles. i freaked and went back to window. And then mid 2006 my mate gave me an Ubuntu Live CD. At first i was unshore but after jumping on the ubuntu forums it began to grow on me. Now I love it. but i have a had time getting friends on to it.

=== I Love My Puppy ===
the beginning of the year I found myself a new pet. '''PUPPY''' . Many people I spoke to said it was no good. I gave it a try any way. It was EXCELLENT it fits in your pocket and you can give those old mechine sitting in  your shed new life. I love my puppy.

=== Windows ===
I use windows for Games and because my Mum and Sister like it but im hoping to be completely Linux by june this year.

=== My Mechines ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''CPU'''
| '''RAM'''
| '''OS'''
|-
| 2.6 GHz
| 512 MB
| Windows XP + Ubuntu 6.06
|-
| 800 MHz
| 128 MB
| Ubuntu 6.06
|-
| 800 MHz
| 128 MB
| Puppy Latest
|}

== Contact Details ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| E-mail
|-
| IRC
| nolander
|}
