{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is currently a placeholder for an idea.  Spawned from a post by Matthew East on Planet Ubuntu, the idea behind this project is to create a place for people to deposit links to unofficial documentation that they have found.  From there, the information will be reviewed, permission will be obtained from the original author, and if all goes according to plan, the information will be added to the official Ubuntu Wiki.

As an example, let's say that someone is having trouble with their particular sound card.  They go to Google and discover someone who has posted a solution to the problem on their blog.  The user would then apply the solution.  Usually, this is where the whole process ends, with the user having satisfied their need and the information still located on some distant blog.  Now, the user has the option of posting a link to that blog and offering a very brief description of the problem and solution it entails.  At that point, the user could be done, and through just a tiny submission to a wiki page such as this one, they have made a significant contribution to the Ubuntu project.  From this point, someone more saavy (or the original user, if they are so inclined) could take the article, formulate it into a Wiki page, obtain permission from the author, credit the author, and viola, a new wiki page is born.

Steps Necessary For a Successful Addition

These steps are written out to show that anyone could perform any one of these small steps in order to contribute to the project as a whole.

1) Post a link to the information that has been found.

2) Research the link and confirm its accuracy.

3) Obtain permission from the author*

4) Editorialize the information found at the link for clarity and accuracy.

* If the author is using a traditional copyright and not a creative commons license, this would be an excellent opportunity to inform them of the alternatives provided by the creative commons.
