{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| [https://launchpad.net/people/blondefriend
|}

=== About Me ===
Im a 15 year old student at school, I have been playing with Linux as a whole for the last two years. My real name is Ian Hadaway and some of you may know me as "Son Of Aq". I like to play with computers as a whole, and spend a lot of time helping others with there computers.

=== Linux Experience ===
The first LInux Distro i played with was fedora, very stable but has a lot of compatbility problems, especialy when it comes to 'WINE'. I have also played with knoppix a lot as for system recovery, along with debian, SUSE and Redhat but i have found so far that Ubuntu and Edubuntu are probaly the most stable and compatible on most of the computers i have put it on, it just works! 

=== Ubuntu Wiki ===
I have only just joined the Ubuntu Wiki but i hope to add to it. I know <nowiki>[[PeteSavage]]</nowiki> personaly as he works at my school and he has been a brilliant help along with <nowiki>[[Bluekuja]]</nowiki>. We are currently working on leaflets for schools and other people that wish to use Edubuntu.  

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuSchoolAdvocacy

----
CategoryHomepage
