{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Luca Boccassi, apply for upload rights for package(s) dpdk, dpdk-kmods, driverctl, dbus-broker, sdbus-cpp, tpm2-tss-engine, mkosi, openconnect, network-manager-openconnect, vpnc-scripts, czmq.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Luca Boccassi
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~bluca
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| n/a
|}

I am applying because:

* I am a Debian Developer and would like to help backporting targeted fixes to LTS Ubuntu releases for packages I maintain in Debian.
* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I have been a Debian contributor for many years, and Debian Developer with uploading rights since 2017. I maintain ~60 source packages in Debian, and also I am a maintainer in several upstream projects such as DPDK, ZeroMQ, systemd.
I am currently employed as a software engineer at Microsoft, in the Linux Systems Group.

== My Ubuntu story ==
Ubuntu was the first Linux distro I used, back in high school, so must have been Hoary or Breezy.
Since then I flipped back and forth between Debian and Ubuntu, depending on the machine.
One of the first projects I started contributing to was Bumblebee, using the upstream team's
PPA and then collaborating with the downstream packagers, and that's how I slowly became a Debian
Developer.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=bluca&comaint=yes
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpdk
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dpdk-kmods
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/driverctl
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus-broker
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sdbus-cpp
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/tpm2-tss-engine
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mkosi
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openconnect
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-openconnect
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vpnc-scripts
* https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/czmq

=== Areas of work ===
A great collaboration between Debian, Ubuntu and upstream DPDK has been going on for years,
and myself and Christian Ehrhardt have been doing great work maintaining this complex stack since 2016.
With uploaders right, I plan to further enhance our collaboration for the benefit of both Debian and Ubuntu and
their users.

=== Things I could do better ===
Some of my packages in Debian haven't been updated in a long time, because there is no
new upstream version to package nor pending bugs, so they "just work". But Debian doesn't
do archive-wide recompiles, so that means they do not benefit from advances in compilers,
linting tools, etc.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
Upload targeted bug fixes for LTS Ubuntu releases for the packages I maintian, to provide a better
experience for our users.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
There are many cases where there's a small delta between Debian and Ubuntu, and it could be
eliminated with a little bit of work from both sides, reducing maintenance burden going forward.
For example, there's a few patches in iproute2 that are in Ubuntu but not in Debian.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

=== Christian Brauner ===
==== General feedback ====
I know Luca from work on systemd and various other projects. At all times he has proven to be reliable, excellent in social and technical skills and has responsibly handled everything he is responsible for. He is one of the upstream maintainers for the systemd project and highly respected within the open source community. His work has been oustanding. Granting him upload rights would add a very valuable open source contributor to take charge and improve the quality of various packages! I happily sponsor his application.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cbrauner]]</nowiki> 

=== Christian Ehrhardt ===
==== General feedback ====
Originally and still I work with Luca on DPDK, but over the years we have found many occasions where we can help each other to make Debian and/or Ubuntu better in some aspect. He is an experienced packager, knows how to debug and coordinate upstream interactions. He's also open minded and communicative - so in case he'd be unsure about somthing potentially being different in Ubuntu he'd just ask and not break things.

I trust his work and word and can only recommend him to grant him this PPU rights.
It will make him able to do our work which sounds great to me.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

He is great, so let us help him to work more for Ubuntu and this might be the first step.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:paelzer]]</nowiki> 
----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
