{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:server-lucid-server-tips
* '''Created''': NickBarcet
* '''Contributors''': DaveWalker
* '''Packages affected''': fortunes-ubuntu-server

=== Summary ===

The package fortunes-ubuntu-server will be installed by default on Ubuntu Server Edition. 

=== Release Note ===
Useful tips are now displayed each time a user logs into Ubuntu Server Edition.

=== Rationale ===

This should provide a mean for new (or old) functionalities to be discoverable by normal users on a text only installation. 

=== User stories ===

Joe connects to Ubuntu Server and discover in the message of the day that he can use XXX to do YYY

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Package already exists, MIR is approved, needs to be seeded in server seed.

=== Implementation ===

ACTION:
* Jump URL for tips - [rt.admin.canonical.com #36573]
* Drive for more tips - Daviey spearing.
* ADD "Ubuntu Server Tip" above output from motd
* Add to server seed - see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-tips/+bug/423667|MIR bug #423667]]</nowiki>

==== UI Changes ====
Typical tip in motd should look like
<pre>
Ubuntu Server Tip:
Instead of typing exit or closing the terminal if you
want to logout you can press Ctrl+d.
See more: http://some.url <-- optional
</pre>

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

None

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== Polycy review ====

Tips should not be any longer than 2 lines of 80 characters.
* Tips are not advertisement, but information. No paid services or product can be referred to here, except if an exception is granted during a server community meeting.
* Tips should only refer to what's directly available in Ubuntu Server Edition and in main, unless an exception is granted during a server community meeting.
* Tips needs to be meaningful to most administrators.
* Mention of a new package or tool can include a pointer (url) to get more information.
* Url in tips should preferably not be pointing to a wiki page, which holds to high a risk to be defaced. 

===== discussion =====

* Should a tip *ALWAYS* have a url? '''No'''
* Can we add a 3rd (optional) line for URL? '''Yes'''

Changes made at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/server-tips

==== Ideas ====
Multiple sections, used when certain packages installed:
-> fortunes-ubuntu-server
*** Ships different sections, enabled at runtime.
         (Perhaps not an issue until overwelmed by tips)
   

----
CategorySpec
