{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:bluetooth-desktop-support
* '''Created''':  * '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': 
* '''See also''': SpecTemplate

=== Summary ===

An easy way to manage bluetooth pairings between essential devices like keyboards and mice. 

=== Rationale ===

It should be straight forward and simple to setup a bluetooth keyboard or mice and not have to worry about it once you reboot. Having to type a command you found every time you restart your computer and hit the connect button on your keyboard is not convienent. There may be a way to make this happen, but it is not currently available through any menu I have found.

=== Use Cases ===

** Brianna just purchased a new bluetooth keyboard and mouse. She knows she needs to pair it with her laptop to use it. Once she does that she doesn't have to worry about it anymore.

=== Discussion ===

<nowiki>[[Warbo]]</nowiki>: For what it's worth I bought a USB bluetooth mouse recently, threw the Windows driver CD in the bin and plugged the dongle into Ubuntu (amd64 Edgy) and it worked straight away, all I tweaked was the acceleration a little. My girlfriend has a wireless keyboard+mouse combo and that worked straight away too, even the volume, home, calculator, etc. keys were all mapped to the right thing, so the support is at least partially there :) These were all Logitech devices BTW.

<nowiki>[[KevinThompson3]]</nowiki>: My problem is when I start up my system I need to type "sudo hidd --search" and press the connect button on my keyboard every time. Maybe I have done something wrong, but I can't find any way to see paired bluetooth devices in any of the menus. Maybe I am missing a package? I am not sure.

<nowiki>[[BrendanDahl]]</nowiki>: I have a related problem.  I have a Logitech MX5000 keyboard/mouse, it runs fine when bluez is not installed or when bluez's config files have been setup.  However, when I do a fresh install or use the live cd (bigger pain) I lose my mouse and keyboard when bluez disables the simple bluetooth dongle and enables all the bluetooth power.  But since it is an unconfigured bluetooth I have to find an old non-bluetooth keyboard to plug in so that I can either remove bluez or configure it.  This makes using my bluetooth keyboard/mouse with the live cd for hardy (think it was the same in gutsy).  This is my first complaint/feature request if it should go somewhere else please let me know.  My initial suggestion might be to not install bluez in the live cd, or disable by default in a config file; or even better can we get a script to auto connect my keyboard on first boot-up?  THANKS ubuntu is great.

----
CategorySpec CategoryBluetooth
