{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''What'''
| '''Who'''
| '''State'''
|-
| Work on https://launchpad.net/people/bluetooth/+packagebugs
| all
| 
|-
| Package the vfs module for obex developed by <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/jamesh|James Henstridge]]</nowiki>
| OnkarShinde
| Packages available for edgy. Waiting for James to remove dependency on osso-gwobex code and make a formal release before making packages for feisty.
|}

==== Done ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''What'''
| '''Who'''
| '''State'''
|-
| Find solutions for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bluez-utils/+bug/59222|59222]]</nowiki>.
| `tfheen`
| 
|-
| Create a test plan, a basic acceptance test, for bluetooth. Whenever a new kernel or new bluez-utils is uploaded, test it using this test plan
| OnkarShinde
| Done <nowiki>[[Bluetooth/TestPlan]]</nowiki>
|-
| Find solutions for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/bluez-utils/+bug/56651|56651]]</nowiki>.
| `dholbach`
| Fixed.
|}

=== Specs to write  / Investigations to do ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''What'''
| '''Who'''
| '''Contact'''
| '''State'''
|-
| Break down BetterBluetoothSupport spec into small ones and target some of them for Edgy+1. See the proposed Edgy+1 tasks below
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Make Bluetooth-dialin (GPRS/3G phones!) work out of the box (see a program GPRS Easy Connect http://www.gprsec.hu)
| 
| MartijnVanDeStreek
| 
|}

=== Proposed tasks for Feisty (Edgy+1) ===
==== Feisty (Edgy+1) ====
 1. Develop a nautilus extension for supporting file browsing on bluetooth devices. Should either use openobex or gnokii. AFAIK this functionality exists in kdebluetooth. <<BR>> Looks like <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/jamesh|James Henstridge]]</nowiki> has already tried it with the code from Maemo http://blogs.gnome.org/view/jamesh/2006/10/05/0 <<BR>> '''Update''': The method specified by James at http://blogs.gnome.org/view/jamesh/2006/10/20/0 works pretty nice on edgy. This could really go into feisty.<<BR>>'''Update1''': I have tried to build i386 packages of libgwobex (using existing files) and gnome-vfs-obex-method (on my own) for edgy. This is my first try at debian packaging. The packages are built from svn and bzr branch. So use at your risk. <nowiki>[[attachment:bluez-packages.tar.gz]]</nowiki> (contains source and binary packages) <<BR>>Install libgwobex0 first and then gnome-vfs-obex-method. -- OnkarShinde <<BR>><<BR>>
** DanielHolbach: `kdebluetooth` works quite nicely.
** DanielHolbach: look at http://triq.net/obexftp/
*** obexftp is already in ubuntu repos. We need to update to latest version. Also try to explore obexfs.
** above package for gnome-vfs-obex-method works really nice for file access from Nautilus. Totem can't handle this VFS-Extension. How to push this into the default install? - NikolausFilus
 1. Addressbook sync plugin for evolution.
** DanielHolbach: look into `opensync` and `multisync`.

=== Other ideas ===
* Easy connection of the computer to a mobile phone modem using bluetooth to access to the Internet.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[Bluetooth]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryBluetooth]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryTeamTODOPage]]</nowiki>
