{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:gridcentric-vms-compat
* '''Created''': AdinScannell
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': qemu-kvm

=== Summary ===

Gridcentric Virtual Memory Streaming (VMS) is a technology to start VMs from already-running snapshots (saving time, I/O and allowing a greater density of VMs). This is principally used in OpenStack deployments.
We maintain a small collection of patches for various versions of qemu that enables VMS with KVM (some are already upstream).

Including these patches in Ubuntu means a better user experience for Ubuntu users deploying Gridcentric technology. It also allows these users to rely on standard Ubuntu distribution channels for updates, security fixes, etc.

=== Release Note ===

QEMU includes support for Gridcentric VMS.

=== Rationale ===

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

Implementation requires an additional set of patches on stock QEMU.

==== UI Changes ====

None.

==== Code Changes ====

Patch queue to be posted shortly.

==== Migration ====

None necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
