{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/bluetooth-pin-on-tty
* '''Packages affected''': bluetooth, bluez-utils
(excuse me for my english)
=== Summary ===
A config set value to assign a default pin-code for use if there aren't running Xserver with kbluetoothd or bt-applet . It may be on hcid.conf as a old style same to passkey "1234" or pin_helper and a cat or text on plain file.

=== Rationale ===
Its very hard to make a bluetooth central data server and accept all connections or define a pinkey which each mobile telephone or PDA. This bluetooth central data server don't have any Screen, and now, I use a vncviewer, FreeNX or Xdmcp to accept manually the connections from mobile dispositives.

=== Use Cases ===
Example on my House: ACTUALLY
* My mother want send a photo to bluetooth central server for show on her blog.
* She noticed me about it and me connect to the server.
* I see that there are a pin request, and I put the standard family pincode.
* The mobile and the Server can connect and send the photo.
* The photo are in the server.

With this feature: FUTURE
* My mother want send a photo to bluetooth central server for show on her blog.
* The mobile ask to my mother for a pincode to send to obexserver.
* If the pin is correct, then the mobile send the photo to server.

=== Scope ===
Are very usable for:
* Unique PC with bluetooth posibility.
* It really necessary for control remote of LOGs and aislated actions make with a mobile or PDA. (Domotic System). I am working on this, azulremoto.sf.net per example. Maybe I will send the request of this domotic system and others on 8.04 . 

=== Design ===
It is enough with the old option pin_helper or pinkey.
In the best case, it could be to assign a pin for each mobile dispositive (identified by MAC)

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
