{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/bluetooth-manager
* '''Created''':   by Ttoine
* '''Contributors''': Ttoine

=== Summary ===

This wikipage covers the Spec "Bluetooth Manager UI and applet - bases". The aim is to design a "Gnome Bluetooth Manager", an applet and UI design for easy Bluetooth managing in Gnome

=== Implementation ===

We have at the moment a gnome applet for Bluetooth wich is very limitate. The idea is to take inspiration from the Gnome Network Manager to make an equivalent and create complete "Gnome Bluetooth Manager".

=== Rationale ===

The Bluetooth Preferences Gui in Gnome pannel /System/Preferences should be more complete. We need too to have the possibility to set up and enable any kind of Bluetooth devices and services with a Gui (eg: internet connection, printing, headset, keyboard, ...). This is not only used by geeks, a lot of consultants "on the road" use internet via cellphone/bluetooth to stay connected when moving from office.

Please have in mind that having a simple and complete Bluetooth Manager Gui would give to Ubuntu and GNU Linux a good advantage on Windows Vista, which has a poor wireless devices management at the moment.

=== Use cases ===

Lea wants to use and set up her brand new bluetooth keyboard and mouse without editing any text file

Anthony use a bluetooth headset to chat with his friends using Skype

Robert wants to enable services of his mobile phone when he is "on the road" for his job : internet connection, agenda sync, sharing files and documents with the laptop

Claire is wants to print a document on a Bluetooth Printer

=== Scope ===

This specification aim to design a complete Bluetooth Manager.

=== FAQ ===

none...

=== Todo ===

=== Comments ===

spenser-I think that there is no need for another applet instead this should be included in nm-applet.  There is discussion on NetworkManger Bugzilla about adding this functionality. 
sread - Does it make sense for NetworkManager to control HI devices like the keyboard and mouse?

StefanoRivera: I think a software kill-switch would also be nice to have, see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/231461|#231461]]</nowiki>

----
CategorySpec
