{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

BlueT is not Bluet,

but Bluet is BlueT in this site.

* BlueT is a Perl/Linux/OSS lover and hacker.

* Bluet is Butterfly or Flower.

Anyway, now we're talking about the guy who's leading Ubuntu-TW :-)

----
=== Matthew Lien ===

Simple Resume: http://studio.bluet.org/resume_en

Major:

* Linux (for 10 years)
** Ubuntu, Debian, Gentoo. (and RedHat from 5.0 to 9, CLE 0.3 to 1.0)
** Desktop, Laptop, Server, LiveCD.
* Security
** Gray Hat Hacker.
** Hacking, Defense. (CGI injection, IDS, DoS, DDoS, spoofing, and else in the networking way)
* Networking
** IEEE 802.11
** TCP/IP
* Perl
* Edu (InfoTech/ComputerScience/OSS speaker)

Hobby:
* Reading
** Novel, Cyberpunk, Technical
** Poetry
* Music
** Classical, Jazz
** R&B, Old Chinese/English songs, Live Band
* Sport
** Tennis
** Riding, Motocycle Racing
** Long distance traveling by motocycle and any kind of traveling
* Eles
** Photograph
** Making something by hand
** Hacking Girls (?)  A_____A(Y)

=== Contact ===

Location: Kaohsiung, Taiwan, Republic Of China (ROC).

Timezone: Taipei, Taiwan (GMT +0800)

Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/bluet]]</nowiki>

* ICQ: 37803596
* MSN: BlueT@BlueT.org
* YIM: bluet_dot_org
* gTalk: Blue.Traveler@gmail.com
* Skype: bluet_dot_org
* Email
** BlueT@ubuntu.org.tw
** BlueT@BlueT.org
** Blue.Traveler@gmail.com
** matthewno1@yahoo.com
* GPG Key ID: 5296C7A8
* BlueT.org Studio http://BlueT.org

=== Other Info ===

* Kaohsiung.pm aka "Kaohsiung Perl Monger" leader
* KaLUG (Kaohsiung Linux User Group) Member - offering Edu/Technical supports for linux users in Kaohsiung. http://kalug.linux.org.tw
* Zuso Security - Core Member and Defense Team Leader. http://www.zusotech.com and http://www.zuso.org.tw
* SCA (Association of high school Computer science and information technolodge researching clubs in Southern Taiwan) Technical Speaker.

=== Now work on ===

* Ubuntu@TW leader, Organizer.
** Managing the <nowiki>[[[http:--wiki.ubuntu.org.tw-index.php-%E7%A4%BE%E7%BE%A4%E6%88%90%E5%93%A1|LoCoTeam - Ubuntu@TW]]</nowiki>]
** Maintaining these servers and site contents
** Website/Forum : http://www.ubuntu.org.tw
** Doc Team : http://wiki.ubuntu.org.tw - Our own Docs for Traditional Chinese User and Translate Docs from English to Chinese.
** APT server : http://apt.ubuntu.org.tw - archive mirror, 2Gbps bandwidth. (mainboard got burned, offline now)
** Deb Team : http://apt.ubuntu.org.tw/ubtw and http://apt.ubuntu.org.tw/ubtw-testing - our own patched and up-to-date package for chinese users.
** LiveCD Team : http://apt.ubuntu.org.tw/UbuntuTW-LiveCD/ - Our own Custom version LiveCD for Traditional Chinese Users.
** ISO mirror : http://apt.ubuntu.org.tw/release
** CDimage mirror : http://apt.ubuntu.org.tw/cdimage/releases/dapper/
** Helping Ubuntu-(CN|HK) to be a organized LoCoTeam with our framwork.
** Organizing a Ubuntu-ZH, which is a United Team of Ubuntu-(TW|CN|HK), for doing things about TW <-> CN <-> HK.
** Help users on #ubuntu-tw #ubuntu-cn #ubuntu-hk #ubuntu-zh.
** Prepearing a doc server for ubuntu-tw , ubuntu-cn and ubuntu-hk local teams (have been setted up).
** Prepearing a buildd server for ubuntu-tw , ubuntu-cn and ubuntu-hk local teams.
** BetterCJKSupport which aims to make CJK user can use ubuntu more smoothly.
** Translate doc from english to chinese.
** Write HOWTOs and Docs.
** <nowiki>[[MainInclusionReportscim]]</nowiki>

=== Related pages ===

I cannot use the Full_Search function, bcoz i messed up with "bluetooth". :-(

=== Future Plan ===
* Make ubtw (Ubuntu-TW) bigger and stronger.
* UbuntuTW LiveCD release.
* Make Ubuntu better and easier to use for any propose.
* Make more and more people can use Ubuntu for their daily use OS.
* Spend my whole life in a best OpenSource OS, a best Linux Distro, and all OSSs.

----

==== Solving Problems ====

CDs:
* can we make "Official" ubuntu cd in taiwan?
* can we use the logo of ubuntu on our localized cd?

Canonical@Asia:
* Is there any plan about Canonical-Taiwan corp. or Technical Center at Taiwan/China?

Books and Supports:
* I heard somebody said ubuntu/canonical will publish a book about ubuntu. We (Ubuntu-TW and Ubuntu-CN) are interested in transplating it to Trad/Simp chinese and publish it at Taiwan and Mainland China at the same time.
* Bcoz of there's still only a few books talking about Ubuntu, Ubuntu@TW wanna publish a book for users who are interested in Ubuntu/Linux in taiwan.  The content will be from Our wiki and our Doc_Team.
* As above, there's no any Officially Org to offer the tranning or tech support, maybe we can do that?
