{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Simon Atkins ===

Hi, I'm Simon from Galway in Ireland. Long time linux user, since the early 90's, started on slackware and stayed with that community for a long while. However, the distro has changed direction, and also because I built myself a new computer, decided it was time to switch. My computer IS my life. I know, a little geekish, but thats who I am. I don't work in the IT industry, as I cannot stand offices, and drive trucks for a living.

Now using a home-built AMD64 3000+, 1GB RAM, 160GB HDD, with Ubuntu 5.10 64bit.

I am involved on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org|forums]]</nowiki> as a member of <nowiki>[[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Teambahamut|Team Bahamut]]</nowiki> who's premier project is developing the <nowiki>[[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Main_Page|Ubuntu Document Storage Facility]]</nowiki>, another wiki dedicated to archiving how-to's and general information about Ubuntu Linux.

I am key member of the UDSF, and have added a lot of documentation to it, and contributed to it's maintenance. I believe that both wiki's have a lot to add to Ubuntu as a project, and we have become a prime source of forum based information.

Email: 
...

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
