{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/bootloader-manager

=== Summary ===
A simple bootloader manager (as a part of Google Summer of code), to choose the order of the operating systems, customize the appearence and some settings, accessed in Gnome Control Center.

=== Rationale ===
There is no tool in Ubuntu that make that configuration easier for novices and Non-English users.

=== Use Cases ===
* Frank is a novice, that want to change the order of the operating systems, the timeout and set a theme. He goes to Gnome Control Center->Ubuntu Bootloader Manager and and change it.
* Rui is a user that doesn't understand English and he want to set a theme, he goes to Ubuntu Bootloader Manager and set it.

 
=== Scope ===
This will be developed in Python and PyGTK/Glade so it can be easily ported to another distribution that use Gnome and Gnome Control Center
The application is separated in a frontend and a backend part.

=== Design & Implementation ===
* UI for novice and advanced users, that will be able:
** change operating system order
** default operating system
** the name of the operating system
** add new (with a wizard dialog)operating system
** change kernel options
** set the fallback option
** the savedefault option
** delete operating systems
** set a password for console and for operating systems, or one password for each one
** add or change the colors and the splash image
** set the hiddenmenu option
** if the user makes a mistake there is a undo/redo option for the last configuratin file.
* Save the config of the main kernels in the menu.lst(commented in the same way as automagic kernels list) for mantain the options when update-grub runs, but with the old kernel with the ''old'' word in title.

* Every time the user change ''menu.lst'', create a backup for further malfunction, and restore button
* The user can run it from the live cd to change the settings of the grub menu installed on disk

=== Comments ===

There is already a tool available that does most of this: <nowiki>[[http://web.telia.com/~u88005282/sum/|StartUp manager]]</nowiki>. It could be extended to do all of it.

----
CategorySpec
