{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Brad Figg, apply for upload rights for the linux-* packages.'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Name
| Brad Figg
|-
| Launchpad Page
| https://launchpad.net/~brad-figg
|-
| Wiki Page
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BradFigg
|}

==== Who I Am ====

I am a member of the Ubuntu Kernel Team, employed by Canonical. I am currently part of the Stable Kernel Team. I've
been a very active member of the Kernel Team since joining the company. As a member of this team I've performed
numerous, sponsored, uploads of the various kernel packages. The Stable Kernel Team is responsible for 18 stable
kernels, 4 LBM packages, 1 LRM package, 1 LUM package, and numerous related meta packages. We are have primary
responsibility for applying CVEs to the kernels. <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-Kernel-Dev-Flavours ]]</nowiki>

==== My Ubuntu Story ====

I first started working with Ubuntu when I hired into Canonical as part of the kernel team in March, 2009. I
was initially hired in to work on ARM kernels for the Platform Team. In this role I worked with Freescale and
Marvel developers to get their SOC patches into Ubuntu kernels.

==== Plans for the Future ====

Continue as part of the Stable Kernel Team.

==== Comments ====

==== Endorsements ====
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

==== Template ====
=== Leann Ogasawara ===
==== General feedback ====
Brad has been an integral part in establishing our new stable kernel updates cadence.  This has helped bring some much needed order and regularity to how we're releasing our kernel updates.  He's patched and packaged many of the kernel SRU's himself and I've had no issues signing his uploads.  I trust him to continue doing the great work that he's already doing and give him my full endorsement for kernel uploader rights.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've specifically worked with Brad to process kernel security updates, incorporating upstream stable patch sets, and general application of bug fixes.  I've reviewed his patches on the mailing list as well as his packaging and have never once had any issues.  I've especially appreciated Brad's attention to detail in providing much needed documentation with regards to the Kernel and our SRU process.  I've also appreciated and used many of the scripts Brad's written to help streamline our kernel SRU process.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Brad needs kernel uploader rights so he no longer has to block on others to sign his uploads. :)

=== Tim Gardner ===
Leann has covered all the points that I would have made. A strong +1 from me.

=== Steve Conklin ===

==== General feedback ====

Brad is a very skilled kernel developer and maintainer, and has been performing stable kernel maintenance with me during the last cycle. In addition to knowledge about maintaining and packaging the kernel, he's also aware of what interactions are required with other teams during the process. 

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I've worked very closely with Brad during the Natty cycle, and I've checked and uploaded many dozens of kernel packages that he prepared, with very few problems. In addition, I've asked him to check a number of my packages, and he's been thorough and found errors that I have made. He's really at the point where he needs upload rights because waiting for package signing by someone else has become a formality that interferes with his work.

=== Stefan Bader ===

All has been said before. Brad has prepared enough packages to know what he is doing and I am confident in his skill to do it right. +1 from me.

<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====
</pre>
