{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


( This is a draft for the How Brainstorm Works webpage )

'''POST your idea for Ubuntu'''

Got a great idea for Ubuntu? <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/submit/|Ubuntu Brainstorm is waiting for you]]</nowiki>.

Posting ideas is a good way to start contributing to the improvement of Ubuntu. The only requirement is to do your best to write exploitable ideas. Please check the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brainstorm/PostingGuidelines|posting guidelines]]</nowiki>, they are here to help you write good quality ideas and avoid making common mistakes.

'''VOTE for the ideas you like'''

Show your support to the best ideas: You can promote or demote them by clicking on the green or the red arrows!

By voting in Ubuntu Brainstorm, you show your support for what you feel is most important to Ubuntu and your voices combined will have an impact on the future of Ubuntu.

Regularly check up on the <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/latest_ideas/|new ideas]]</nowiki> page and don't miss the <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/most_popular_ever/|most popular ideas ever]]</nowiki> page!

'''DISCUSS with the community'''

Discuss and contribute to the improvement of ideas.

Help brainstorm the good ideas! Leave constructive comments, link the ideas to relevant <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/|ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki> threads, and if you have the necessary skills, start writing a <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/|blueprint]]</nowiki>. (<nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/tooltip/2/|What is a blueprint?]]</nowiki>)

'''SEE what's going on'''

Ideas are regularly read by active Ubuntu contributors and developers.  They will do their best to keep you informed on the most popular ideas. To see what's going on check these websites often:
* <nowiki>[[http://blog.qa.ubuntu.com/|The Ubuntu QA blog]]</nowiki> where updates on what's going on should be posted regularly.
* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu.com/|Planet Ubuntu]]</nowiki> where all the Ubuntu developer's blogs are aggregated.
* <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/|The Ubuntu "Fridge"]]</nowiki> where regular news items are posted about Ubuntu.

'''PARTICIPATE to the development of ideas'''

There are plenty of great ideas out there, but not enough contributors to implement them. Your participation can make the difference!

If you are willing to start working on an idea, don't hesitate, just do it! Make contact with the relevant Ubuntu team (check <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|this page]]</nowiki>).  Discuss the way it can be done, and start it! Some ideas are quite easy to implement, while others require intensive work across several Ubuntu teams: be sure to pick one that matches your skills.

Not a programmer? No problem! Lots of tasks do not require you know how to program: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TranslatingUbuntu|translation]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam|documentation]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ArtworkTeam|artwork]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs|bug triaging]]</nowiki>, ...

You should check this page to learn how to interact with Ubuntu teams and to contribute to Ubuntu : <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
