{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===
The branding series of packages are a new effort in Karmic by ScottRitchie.

The goal is to have various default artwork replaced with special branded artwork in a simple and derivative-friendly way.

=== Design ===
If the branding-ubuntu package is installed, then any program that has been "branding-enabled" will use the artwork provided by the branding-ubuntu package rather than its default.  These image replacements are placed in /usr/share/branding in exactly the same way that their equivalents are located in /usr/share.  For instance, the ubuntu-branded background for Gnometris is in /usr/share/branding/gnome-games/gnometris/pixmaps/gnometris.svg, while the default Gnometris background is in /usr/share/gnome-games/gnometris/pixmaps/gnometris.svg.

The branding-ubuntu package then renames the original files and installs symbolic links to the branded ones in their place; gnometris.svg becomes gnometris.svg.unbranded, and a new symlink to the branded gnometris.svg takes its place.  This is done through the use of dpkg-diversions.

It is intentional that the branding-ubuntu package be replaceable with similar conflicting packages providing different branding, for instance branding-kubuntu.  If necessary, branding-ubuntu could eventually be split into subpackages for filesize reasons, eg branding-ubuntu-main and branding-ubuntu-universe.

=== Adding branding ===
Any artwork file that is a candidate for branding need only be included in the branding package.  File a launchpad bug against the appropriate branding package.  If you don't have a piece of artwork yet, <nowiki>[[Bugs-Tags|tag]]</nowiki> the bug ''needs-artwork''

==== Possible packages to add branding to ====
* splash screens of:
**** (./) Openoffice
**** (./) Eclipse
**** Gimp 
**** Blender
* about screens of inkscape and others
* (./) card backs on solitaire
* marbles in 4-in-a-row
* (./) tiles in mahjongg
