{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Announcing The Ubuntu Ports Archive ==

The Porting Team is proud to announce to the Ubuntu world the release of Breezy Badger for three shiny new architectures.

The addition of IA64, HPPA (1.1 and later) and SPARC (UltraSPARC only) will make Ubuntu available to communities sometimes neglected by other distributions.

=== About Ports ===

The Porting Team was born about a year ago, and it's made up only by volunteers, motivated by love for Ubuntu and uncommon hardware.  Hence the criteria for ports architectures is more about what those individuals decide than any rational decision making process.
None of these new architectures are officially supported by the Ubuntu team.  If we can get a large enough user base, we may be able to change that.

While the ports share the same amazing set of software as the official Ubuntu distribution, their feature set is not as complete yet.  In fact, you're much more likely to see some rough edges as you use the ports.

=== How to get Ports ===

For hppa and ia64, download Ubuntu 5.10 here:
    http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/5.10/release/

For sparc (no CD images available):
    http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/breezy/main/installer-sparc/current/images/sparc64/netboot/2.6/boot.img <<BR>>
    (For tftpboot and netinstall)<<BR>>
    http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/breezy/main/installer-sparc/current/images/2.6/mini.iso <<BR>>
    (For CD boot and netinstall)<<BR>>

=== Feedback and Helping ===

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of 
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help ensure
that our next release is the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please 
report bugs through Launchpad:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on Freenode, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users <<BR>>
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

For specific Ports involvement and development you are welcome to join
the #ubuntu-ports IRC channel on Freenode.

=== Contact ===

hppa and ia64:
  LaMont Jones <lamont@ubuntu.com>

sparc:
  Fabio Massimo Di Nitto <fabbione@ubuntu.com>
