{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu is "Linux for Human Beings". Ubuntu 5.10 "Breezy Badger" is "Next Step in the Evolution of Humanity" and the third release of Ubuntu Linux succeeding 5.04 "Hoary Hedgehog". Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy Badger offers a list of new features and improvements. Ubuntu is a Linux  distribution for your desktop or server, with a  fast and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of excellent packages installed by default, every other package you can imagine available from the network, a commitment to security updates for 18 months after each release and professional technical support from many companies around the world.

Ubuntu 5.10 includes the latest 2.12 release of the GNOME desktop. The developers have finely intergrated GNOME into Ubuntu. K Desktop Environment for Ubuntu (Kubuntu) is now available with version 3.4. Ubuntu 5.10 includes two new packages to help you keep your computer up to date, including update-manager, and Synaptic. Synaptic is a one stop application for people who like the simplicity of a one-click package(s) install and/or upgrade. All running on the latest stable version or X.org (6.8.2) with support for most major video vendors. Ubuntu 5.10 "Breezy Badger" makes use of Linux 2.6.12.

System Performance has be improved with software such as Readahead, which speeds up the boot process, along with grepmap which allows users to "hot-swap" USB, IEEE 1394/Firewire devices, other removable devices, and non-removable devices such as PCI cards faster.

Installation Ubuntu has never been easy with such solutions as Kickstart, that allow the system administrator to define install parameters once, and then install Ubuntu on a number of machines via CD-ROM, local hard drive, NFS, FTP, or HTTP. Not to mention during installation, users will not need to know anything about the keyboard layout, the correct default settings, the appropriate xkb layout, or what architecture they are using (PS/2, USB). Ubuntu 5.10 now supports installation from USB devices.

Ubuntu 5.10 introduces the use of language packs. These will allow users to install localization information from a centralized database as a single pack. With the powerful APT package management system, updating your current Ubuntu version is a Breezy.
