{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Breno Leitao is a software engineer that started to use Ubuntu since 4.10 (Launchpad member since     2007-03-13) while working at Async in Brazil. Currently Breno is working at IBM focused on Debian and Ubuntu in the ppc64el (and possible s390x) architectures.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| leitao
|-
| GTalk
| breno.leitao@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| breno.leitao@gmail.com
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~breno-leitao
|-
| Google+
| https://plus.google.com/110081772345732465629/posts
|-
| Github
| https://github.com/leitao/
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have been working on a different set of Ubuntu areas, most of them focused on ppc64el (and possible s390x) architectures. I have been handling a lot of bugs, most of them from the IBM side, and thus, mirrored from IBM side to launchpad. I am also working to educate IBM people and IBM customers on Ubuntu OS.

Regarding the technical matter, I am working on bug fixing and packages debianization. One of my key focus would be adding new IBM packages in the Ubuntu repositories, as the applications we have for the ppc64el and s390x applications that are still not part of the Ubuntu archives.

Other than that, I was responsible for creating a infrastructure at IBM to test daily builds (LTS and Standard releases) on ppc64el architecture, in order to find Ubuntu problems as they show up on the build. The tests happen on different File system as EXT4, LVM and BRTFS on different virtualization technologies as PowerVM, PowerKVM and Baremetal

Although I do most of the bug management from within IBM Bugzilla, I have a set of bugs I am working directly in Launchpad as showed in https://bugs.launchpad.net/~breno-leitao/+subscribedbugs.

I also created the wiki page for the POWER architecture, and it quite complete regarding running Ubuntu on a POWER architecture.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ppc64el

=== Future Goals ===

I want to be the technical key guy for Ubuntu on ppc64el and s390x platforms, acting on different fronts, as Q&A, MOTU, IRC Consultant and askUbuntu.com. 

=== Testimonials ===

* Breno is a great technical, all-round guy. We worked together since the early stages of the Debian ppc64el port, at the engineering level, and he moved on to the architecture level for Ubuntu ppc64el, doing a decent job there, keeping track of a bunch of stuff and different software stacks and test teams and whatever -- with a good systemic perspective, multiple work streams, and all that -- being an important link between IBM and Canonical. -- mauricfo on 2015-09-22 17:00:00 GMT-3
