{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello I'm Brian Michalski,

Launchpad: https://edge.launchpad.net/~michalski

=== About Me ===
I am an average teen from Canada, although some of you think were a third-world nation stuck in the ice age, I'd be happy to challenge that anytime and bust a few myths. 

You may have noticed I have a fairly good sense of humor and am fairly cheery. The only times that I get ticked off is when people lie to me, try to tick me off, or just don't say what their thinking about me and the situation at hand (when present).
One Of My Views: If You Can't Say It To My Face... Don't Go Thinking, Talking, And Acting It In Front Of Me And Behind My Back.

I am Bilingual(English/French), Canadian(Damn Proud To Be), and Acadian(With Full Morale)from my mothers side. During my freetime I read, go on the computer to play and work on Ubuntu, and watch movies(new, but mostly old).

I am also an excellent debater and decision maker, this helps in cadets and the common debates between me and my vice-principal.

=== About My Computer ===
A Longgg Time Ago, I found out that my anti-virus subscription was finished, my system was slower than boiling water, and that it was going to crash (again) soon. I was fed up enough and had been playing with Linux livecd distros enough to decide that I was going to install a fully operational distro, Ubuntu popped up on Linux.org

I started using Ubuntu in September 2007, from there I have felt the large scale, and small detail advantages. I kept the dual-boot of Vista/Ubuntu and slowly reduced my dependence of windows (finding windows extremely annoying). Although I still have the dual-boot with windows, I'm secretly plotting to nuke it. shhhhhh.

Due to the fact that I cant leave my computers config alone for more than 3 days at a time, I frequently screw up gnome :). thus after some searching trying to find a nice backup desktop environment for when gnome refuses to work, the Eligible environments were XFCE, KDE, And Matchbox. Matchbox won because it was minimalist (RAM) and I find it has an interesting way of organizing things.

=== About My Other Computer ===
I also manage a medium sizes network remotely which is based in Halifax, NS 80km away (as the crow flies) from where I live, with a 200km drive to get there. these computers run Ubuntu and use samba as the networking protocol, I use ssh to manage the network remotely with the router forwarding the specific connection to each computer

Example: 24.221.34.21 (SAMPLE IP!) is the External IP Address given by the ISP
the router would accept ssh connection on port 51101 and forward it to computer 1 (Not real port used) and then connection through ssh to port 51102 would be forwarded to computer 2.

you get the idea.

=== My Academics/Cadets ===
I am a cadet. I am currently a Flight Corporal in level 3. I have taken my Basic Course, ITLC, and am Applying for Intro To Marksman, and ITAC for 2008. I have a bronze fitness because I dislike the Endurance Run. And I am a 3rd Class marksman and part of the Drill Team and Band.

I am currently undergoing grade 10 and take part in no extra curricular activities as cadets and Ubuntu, (along with common life/family), take up most of my time. my average school marks are in the 74.2% and slowly but surely increasing. My theory on why this is, while I'm such an intelligent guy(said by many friends, parents, and strangers), is that I ate (over a 4 month span) 1L of paste(glue) in Primary. Oh and about 1/8 of that was purple...

In comparison with 2 others student who had been doing this with me, I fear the worse.

=== My Contributions Towards Ubuntu ===
I usually help out in the IRC (#ubuntu), but frequently use Launchpad as a more organized way of keeping track of what I'm doing. I also answer any questions that come to me about Ubuntu wherever and when ever, situation and time permitting. 

I have forwarded some of my ideas for the future of Ubuntu to several assignees
one of these ideas being a graphically, easy to use, interface for modifying the firewall in Ubuntu this is justified by the thinking that, if its not visibly there, most will not
use it. this idea was forwarded to Martin Pitt. 
https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/firewall
https://wiki.ubuntu.com//SoC-Firewall   (Kraal is the graphical interface)

I am exploring Ubuntu everyday and am learning more all the time. Yet most Ubuntu meetings take place while I'm in school, or at cadets. I tend to help out with Ubuntu during the late hours of the night.

Fairly recently I've decided that I'm comfortable enough to start confirming new bugs and triaging them if I can.

I have also recently introduced Ubuntu to my school, I tend to target different teachers at the most vulnerable technological point...when the windows computer wont work :).

You can usually catch me in irc on these channels:

=== Random Thing's ===

-I Like Cheese
-I'm Here <Points To Ground>, And You're Not.
-Fuzzy Mittens Are Wicked
-Fuzzier Mittens Are Even Better
-I'll Eat Chicken Like That, But I Find Turkey Too Dry.
-I Like Cheese

(Any Comedy In Here Was Meant As Just That, Comedy. If I Have Offended You In Anyway, Please Just Contact Me By Email And Let Me Know And I Will Change The Offending Material Immediately)
