{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/brian-murray|brian-murray]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''bdmurray''' (''libera.chat'')
|-
| <|3(> '''Email''':
| brian@ubuntu.com
|-
| brian@canonical.com
|-
| brian@murraytwins.com
|-
| '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camas%2C_Wa|Camas, Washington, USA]]</nowiki> Part of the Portland, OR Metropolitan Statistical Area
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://murraytwins.com/blog/
|}

=== About Me ===
Hello!  I work for Canonical as a Software Engineer on the Ubuntu Foundations Team.  My areas of responsibility include managing the Ubuntu Bug Squad and Bug Control teams, keeping an eye out for high profile bugs and creating systems for triaging and reporting bugs more effictively.  I also am a member of the  Stable Release Updates team.  I am probably one of the few subscribers to to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugs|ubuntu-bugs]]</nowiki> mailing list.

=== Contributions ===
* substantial rewriting of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage|Finding the Right Package]]</nowiki> to help new bug reports end up filed about the right package
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Diaries/bdmurray|BugSquad diary entry]]</nowiki> teaching people how to quickly mark duplicate bugs
* added a section to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GrubHowto|Grub How To]]</nowiki> regarding removing quiet and usplash for troubleshooting which I use to help bug reporters
* revamp of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20070530|Ubuntu Hug Day goals]]</nowiki> - still in testing phase
* approved approximately 15 members to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-qa/|Ubuntu QA]]</nowiki> team
* regularly review and update <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Responses|Common Bug Responses]]</nowiki>
* created and published multiple clue files for <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~bugsquad/bughelper-data/main|bughelper-data]]</nowiki> for use with BugHelper
* touched a substantial number of bugs - 600 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~brian-murray/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=Rejected&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_cve.used=&search=Search|rejected]]</nowiki>, 129 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~brian-murray/+assignedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_contact=&field.status_upstream=&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.tag=&field.has_cve.used=|fix released]]</nowiki>, 242 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~brian-murray/+assignedbugs|currently assigned to me]]</nowiki>, countless more confirmed, and as of May 29th #2 behind seb128 in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+topcontributors|bug management karma]]</nowiki>
* implemented and standardized <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.tag=metabug|metabug]]</nowiki> tag for finding bugs with a high probability of duplication
* created OpenOffice bug tags <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Tags|BugSquad Tags]]</nowiki> for segmentation of OpenOffice bugs

=== Future Goals ===
* publish methods for working with the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugs|ubuntu-bugs mailing list]]</nowiki>
* find and share methods for increasing efficiency when triaging bugs
* work on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SmartBugReportingTool|smarter bug reporting]]</nowiki> to allow bug reporters to submit higher quality bug reports and reduce amount of triaging necessary

----
CategoryHomepage
