{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



	Name: Brian Mathis<<BR>>
	Location: Fresno, CA, USA<<BR>>
	Email:  <<BR>>
        Website: http://www.bmnetworking.com/ <<BR>>
	Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~bmathis <<BR>>
	IRC: bmathis<<BR>>

-----

==== About ====
I am a Windows IT Administrator for my day job and I recently started a consulting company for residential and small companies. Through my consulting company I sell off-lease computers with Ubuntu pre-installed and offer Ubuntu solutions as well as the standard Windows services (antivirus, antispyware, defrag, yada yada).

==== Experience ====
I went to school to become a network support technician and was able to land a sweet job as an IT Administrator. We mostly use Windows XP for desktops and Server 2003, but I have been able to fit a Squid proxy server and a Postfix mail server (with all the works) in on a few projects. I have been using Linux for about 5 years and started using Ubuntu since it first came out and you were able to order 100 CDs if you wanted to ;).

==== Contributions ====
So far I have contributed a few How To's as well as tried to help as many people as I can on the forums with Postfix, Squid, and Dans Guardian. I hope, in the near future, to setup a blog to post more tutorials as well as answer some of the basic questions that I have had to look up the answers for.
----
CategoryHomepage
