{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== BrianGreen2 ===

Email: 
== What I use Ubuntu for ==
Have Ubuntu running on 2 machines - one my workstation/server (Dell PowerEdge SC430) - used as a fileserver/jack of all trades machine. (on a side note, ask me why I had to use a hacksaw to run a decent video card) Loaded it up with memory to run VMWare and run virtual OS's for practice/studies (I do MS stuff in the workplace, but would much rather deal with Linux). FreeNX for remote access, even played some UT2004 on it as well (though I am horrible at FPS games). Laptop (Dell C640) with Ubuntu for day to day surfing and whatnot on the couch. Have a Shuttle PC setup running Knoppmyth, playing vids/music hosted on my server over NFS. Almost a terabyte of storage in total at home, with no problems of stability or dealing with licensing (YAY!). I'm a linux newbie still, but very enthusiastic about learning more about it.

=== Apps and such that I am interested in ===
* Firefox - enjoy using it everyday, and many different extensions. Wish it was a bit faster under Linux.
* Gaim - for IM
* mplayer - for vids 
* Automatix - for easy configuration of my Ubuntu machine(s)
* FreeNX - used this under Breezy for remote access of my PC's, have not configured it under Dapper yet.
* Samba/NFS - for filesharing usage
* Amarok/Listen/Beep/Rhythmbox - haven't decided on a music player yet, there are many nice ones. Need something to help with organizing my gigabytes of music though.
* Knoppmyth distribution - I started using MS Mediacenter a few years back and enjoyed it. Tried Mythtv via Knoppmyth and *really* enjoyed it. PVR functions are great, as well as the ability to show off pictures, play music, play any format videos (using mplayer on Myth).  
* May start using Tomboy, I use Google Notebook a lot, and appreciate being able to access those notes anywhere.
* XGL/Compiz is something I'd like to use, but my laptop video card isn't powerful enough most likely, and I'm not sure it's worth the effort on my desktop/server box.  
* Google Picasa looks interesting, as I need to organize my pictures a bit more.
* Google Earth is nifty, and I used it a lot on Windows. I appreciate the Linux port by Google; I installed it on my desktop machine and it works great.

==== Other things...what I am working on, relating to Ubuntu & Linux ====
* Learning to use Linux in general (command line usage, file system & troubleshooting basics)
* Spreading Ubuntu love :)
* Migrate my parents' PC from MS to Ubuntu (I'm their tech support, therefore I can make their OS decisions)
* Slowly change career focus from MS products to Linux products (difficult transition for me thus far).
* Try getting Ekiga working, so I can chat with my parents' from afar.
* Get my niece using the Edubuntu PC I setup for her. She's only 2, but I need to start her out on the right track. :)

...

----
CategoryHomepage
