{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello, I am brobo. I am a somewhat new developer looking into the possibility of getting into a large project/community. I enjoy programming, and am fluent in C++, Java, PHP, and a few other languages. I am always willing to learn something new, and because I am completely self-taught I enjoy starting projects that are difficult so I can learn from experience. If ever I need to learn a new skill, language, or concept I will gladly do whatever I can to learn it.

I greatly enjoy puzzles, which is one reason I love programming. I love coming across interesting problems and thinking of possible solutions.

My hopes are to one day join a development team for Ubuntu and/or other off-branches.. Currently I am a member of the bug-squad and hope to use it a launching point to other teams once I get acclimated to the Ubuntu community. I am also interested in getting into the Ubuntu Youth group.

I have recently completely switched to Linux and use it 99% of the time, and I use Ubuntu currently as my primary OS although I am starting to use Lubuntu.

My timezone is UTC-6. I have a very busy schedule, but I try to be on IRC as often as possible between 4:00 and 9:00 (UTC-6) on weekdays and most of the day on weekends. However I can not guarantee that I will be online at any given time.
