{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Bruce Adams ===

Email: 
I live and work in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. I've been running Ubuntu on my desktop at work and laptops at home for several years now. I remain very impressed. My earlier Linux background was mostly Red Hat and Fedora. I continue to support Red Hat on servers at work. I've worked with many other Unix systems (AIX, AT&T, BSD*, HP-UX, Solaris, Xenix and more) over the years. I hope to be able to contribute in Ubuntu.

- Bruce

==== Interesting Stuff ====

Interesting stuff that I haven't figured out where to put in this Wiki.

# Suspend/Resume is finally usable in the beta of 9.04! There is a quirk. My external USB mouse does not track (clicks work) after the suspend/resume and needs to be unplugged and replugged in.
# There was a serious problem with Ubuntu on my IBM Net Vista (Pentium 4) desktop. The system clock effectively stopped. I called the problem "Time Slows Down". The ultimate resolution turned out to be adding the kernel parameter "noapic" (see GrubHowto for setting kernel parameters). Here is a <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=109901|Ubuntu Forum]]</nowiki> thread about the problem.

----
CategoryHomepage
