{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== BrunoBord ==

== Bruno Bord, aka kNo' ==

=== Who am I? ===

hi!

I'm a French web developer, living in Bayonne, south-western France, close to the spanish border.
I'm using Ubuntu since november 2004.

I want to be involved in the Ubuntu community by translating Ubuntu specific documentation or applications into French. A lot of my friends are hesitating using Linux because they can't read/speak english. I think it's important to have as much information as possible in as many languages as possible. It will convince more and more people to switch to Linux.

Since January 2007, I have started the Xamango Project (see below).

Why Ubuntu? Because it's simple and it rocks!

You may read more via my weblog:
* <nowiki>[[http://jehaisleprintemps.net/]]</nowiki> (in French)
* <nowiki>[[http://jehaisleprintemps.net/?lang=en]]</nowiki> (English part)

=== Work ===

* <nowiki>[[http://xamango.org|Xamango Project]]</nowiki> : a PHP-clone of PlanetPlanet. Much improvements on the scope. It's hosted on <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/xamango|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jokosher-l10n|Jokosher French translation]]</nowiki>
* FrenchDocumentation

----
CategoryLoCoTeams CategoryHomepage
