{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bbyever/|bbyever]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0xFBB1FE2FF745F1147AD7C3AAC2306A9BFFC27F92&op=index|FFC27F92]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''bbyever''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| bbyever AT gmail DOT com
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| bbyever AT jabber DOT org
|}

== About Me ==

I've been using Ubuntu since Feisty, but I had used Fedora Core 6 before. Currently I use Hardy. 

I started being active in the Ubuntu Community a few months ago by translating, and learning about packaging. After that I joined the Mexican LoCo and have been active in it for a few months now. I also joined the Marketing Team and I am helping out with the re-activation of the Team and its projects. 

A few weeks ago I joined the Ubuntu Training Team and I plan to translate the Ubuntu Desktop Course into Spanish and help with the development of the 8.04 version of the Course.  

I live in Mexico City.

== Contributions ==

==== Translations ====

I started my contributions to Ubuntu by translating. You can see them <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~bbyever|here]]</nowiki>

==== MOTU ====

For a while I started to get involved with the MOTU. Andrea Colangelo was my mentor and he taught me the workflow and processes of Ubuntu development. While I was there I fixed a very simple bug and made a couple of merges. You can see them <nowiki>[[Bugs|here]]</nowiki>  

==== Ubuntu Marketing ====

I joined the Marketing Team a couple of months ago. Up until now, I've helped with the meeting minutes, but i want to become more involved with the SU project.

==== Ubuntu Mexico ====

I joined the Mexican LoCo a few months ago. Right now I take care of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMxTeam|wiki]]</nowiki>, updating it constantly to reflect the LoCo's activity and current proyects. I am also admin of Ubuntu Mexico Marketing, where we are currently making a podcast. A journalist got in touch with us too, so we might be appearing on a mexican magazine soon :D . 

I was also at an event with the mexican LoCo. You can see some pictures <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuMxTeam/Eventos/Flisol2008|here]]</nowiki> (im not actually on the pictures though, hehe)

==== Ubuntu Training ====

I joined the Ubuntu training team a few weeks ago, hoping to translate the Ubuntu Desktop Course. My mebership expired some time ago now :S , but I was told there was going to be an Ubuntu/Canonical Training meeting to check on the status of the Ubuntu Desktop Course version 8.04... Im still wating for a date though.

== What I want to do ==

* Get the Mexican LoCo approved. 
* Help with the SU project
* Try to get Ubuntu in public schools here in Mexico
* Go to various FOSS events in Mexico. 
 
----
CategoryHomepage
