{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Name'''
| Bruno Girin
|-
| '''Location'''
| London, United Kingdom
|-
| '''Time Zone'''
| Europe/London
|-
| '''Home Town'''
| <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.co.uk/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=brest,+france&sll=53.800651,-4.064941&sspn=11.25,28.256836&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=Brest,+Finistere,+Brittany,+France&ll=48.390914,-4.485168&spn=0.789716,1.766052&z=9|Brest, France]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''LP Account'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brunogirin|brunogirin]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Blog'''
| <nowiki>[[http://brunogirin.blogspot.com/]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

=== A Short Introduction ===

I come from a small town called Brest, located at the very west end of Brittany, in France. If you've ever read any of the <nowiki>[[http://www.asterix.com/|Astérix]]</nowiki> novels, I come from the same region, but even further west. I graduated in computer science in 1994, in another small French town called Nancy, about an hour away from the German and Luxembourg borders. I eventually ended up moving to London in 1998 and I still live here today.

=== Ubuntu and Me ===

==== How I Came to Ubuntu ====

I got introduced to computers at a time when a home computer was called Amstrad CPC 464, Commodore 64 or ZX Spectrum and when Windows and the Internet didn't exist. Home computing was fun then. At uni, I learnt the ins and outs of UNIX and software design on green text terminals. By the time I got my first job, Windows was already dominant on the desktop and I hated it. I didn't hate it because it was bad or proprietary. I hated it because I am the sort of person who learns a lot better when I can understand how things work rather than learn stuff by heart. And for me that was the difference: I could understand UNIX, it made sense but I couldn't understand Windows, its logic escaped me.

I tried a lot of things at home in order not to use Windows: as I knew Sun Solaris well, I had a refurbished Sun Sparc 10 at home at some point; then I tried Red Hat but being more a developer than a sys admin, I found that it was too difficult to get Red Hat to work as I wanted. I eventually bought a PowerMac G5 on the grounds that it worked out of the box but it was UNIX underneath.

Eventually, the company I was working for ended up being wound down and we all got made redundant, with our work laptop given to us as part of the redundancy package. This was a very nice IBM ThinkPad T42, with specs meant for heavy-weight Java/J2EE development. Unfortunately it was running Windows XP. I had heard of this new distro on the block called Ubuntu, I downloaded an ISO, burnt a CD, booted the CD and lo and behold, 30 minutes later my ThinkPad was running Feisty Faun without a glitch! The Windows install CDs were never seen again. I still use the ThinkPad today and in fact it's my main machine from which I am currently writing this page.

==== My Contribution ====

I try to contribute to Ubuntu as and when time allows, so here's what I've been doing so far:
* I am a member of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-uk.org/|the Ubuntu UK LoCo team]]</nowiki>;
* I report bugs as and when I find them;
* As a member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad team]]</nowiki> I contribute to triaging bugs;
* I am a member of the <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage-Nautilus|Nautilus adoption team]]</nowiki> started by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Qense|Sense]]</nowiki>, who has been great in mentoring me on bug triaging;
* I contribute new snippets to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/python-snippets|Python Snippets]]</nowiki> project whenever I learn new python tricks;
* I contribute to the forums, mailing lists as well as the <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=27258|LinkedIn Ubuntu Users group]]</nowiki>;
* I created my first Ubuntu application, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brunogirin/+archive/cacofonix|Cacofonix]]</nowiki>. It won't change the world but it provided me with a workaround for <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/exaile/+bug/559746|bug 559746]]</nowiki>;
* And recently, I started contributing fixes and new code to <nowiki>[[http://yorba.org/shotwell/|Shotwell]]</nowiki>, the photo manager that will come in the next version of Ubuntu.

==== The Future ====

There are a lot of things I would like to do and get involved with in Ubuntu:
* As a contractor, I have my own business and I would love for it to have a larger Ubuntu component;
* I am a developer at heart but my experience is with Java, which is why I find <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpportunisticDeveloperWeek|Jono's opportunistic developer initiative]]</nowiki> a great idea: I am exactly the sort of person this is aimed at; hopefully that will be a good spring board to get me started in producing code for Ubuntu;
* And anything else that can help Ubuntu grow and that I can fit around my diary.

=== Random Bits and Bobs ===

Here are all the other things about me that didn't fit above:
* I have <nowiki>[[http://brunogirin.blogspot.com/|a weblog]]</nowiki> that I fill sporadically with random stuff, generally technology related, including a number of <nowiki>[[http://brunogirin.blogspot.com/search/label/ubuntu|Ubuntu related posts]]</nowiki>;
* I am a keen photographer so you can find my photos <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/brunogirin/|in my flickr stream]]</nowiki>;
* I have <nowiki>[[http://uk.linkedin.com/in/brunogirin|a LinkedIn profile]]</nowiki>;
* I love travelling and have visited nearly 40 countries but none in Asia so far.

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUKTeamProfile]]</nowiki>
