{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Bryan Haskins (Toxicity999) ==
Email/Jabber: kingoallhearts999@gmail.com

Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~bryan-h

Blog: http://www.thexyphr.info

I've used Ubuntu since late Hoary

== About Me ==

You will find most of my contributions on the forums, I spend a lot of my time looking for users with the problems that aren't necessarily an easy fix, which most people tend to shy away from. I've become pretty notorious (Hopefully in a good way) on the #ubuntuforums channel, and somewhat on the forums themselves.

=== Goals ===

My only goal here, is to help people the way I was when I first came here about 2 years ago (Ish? I don't remember and exact date.You'll notice My Launchpad and forum account are more recent, but trust me, it's been that long.), and try to just in general spread the community. 

=== Overview ===

I'm fairly involved if only on the outside looking in with development, I follow the Ubuntu mailing-lists, and many other general linux development lists.

As one point to that claim, I have been known to follow and post quite frequently on the Wine Mailing lists, and also Maintain the World of Warcraft Wine AppDB Page, which I recently converted to wiki after rewriting the entirety of the guide. It's not all fun and games, even if it is about them. I deal with a lot of support requests, and problem solving when people have issues related to the getting the game working, and to handle this you must have a fairly high technical understanding of Wine. You will find this in the "What I Do" section. Even though this doesn't particularly apply to Ubuntu, it sure is a work out.

Also, I am now a part of the UbuntuForums "Beginner Team", and the "Hardware Team".

=== What I Do/Basic References ===

Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~bryan-h (Bad picture taking skills)

Forum Profile: http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=76406 (Again Bad pictures!)

AppDB Work: http://appdb.winehq.org/appview.php?iVersionId=6482

Beginners Team - Maintainer or what have you of the Launchpad division

Hardware Team - We haven't really done much yet, but we're working on changing that

-----
Added by bodhi.zazen

I have worked with Toxicity999 on the Beginners team, although I am familiar with his posts on the Forums as well.

Toxicity999 has both taken initiative and been a reliable asset to the team.

=== Looking Forward ===

I hope to stick around the community for a very long time, and as I grow, so will my contributions. I'm working closely as part of the Beginners team with the community in an effort to better link those knowledgeable with those new.

=== Category ===
----
CategoryHomepage
