{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

Greetings fellow ubuntu users!  I'm very interested in getting involved in OSS, particularly ubuntu!  I'm a senior at University of San Francisco majoring in Computer Science.  I love to program and I love hunting down and fixing bugs.  I'm also an avid hiker, cross country runner, and enjoy playing with my lovely chocolate labrador, Java (pun intended!).

=== Contact Info ===

* '''IRC Nick''' - bsmartt` (freenode) (I'm often idle on IRC)
* '''email addresses''' - bsmartt13[at]gmail[dot]com (primary) || wmsmartt[at]cs[dot]usfca[dot]edu
* '''Launchpad''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bsmartt13|Bill Smartt]]</nowiki>

=== Interests & Areas of Interest ===
Lots! ;)

* '''Networks''' - network stack implementation, tcp/ip, 802.1x - Most of my experience is in this area.
* '''Cryptography''' - hashing, encryption - I have very little experience with it, however I have a very strong background in math, and especially enjoy number theory.
* '''Kernel implementation''' - Some experience in this area, I have (rather successfully) implemented PintOS (multithreading, filesystem, virtual memory, syscalls, etc.).

=== Systems ===

* Dell Dimension 8200 -- Ubuntu 10.10 desktop
* lenovo ThinkPadEdge 14' -- Ubuntu 10.10 + BackTrackLinux 4 Final
* Apple MacBookPro -- 15' -- Mac OS X 10.6 + Windows XP Pro SP3 + Ubuntu 10.10
* Apple MacPro -- Mac OS X 10.6 + BackTrackLinux 4 Final
* dedicated server -- Ubuntu 10.4 server -- 100mbit symmetrical line (I'd like to get this set up to host OSS         repos if possible, need to look into this.
