{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Fix for Bug #1 (Suggested Patch) ===

==== Part One ====

A. Apply this patch as soon as possible to prevent the bug grasping advantage upon its next release:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Source 1 representative in each country with the ability to contact every major (all) computer parts wholesalers (ie. suppliers to system builders).

2. Provide shipit addresses of those and forge contact prior to delivery of distros equalling the amount of customers (system builders) + additional for the wholesaler. Explain freedom etc.

4. Provide a (third-party) revenue stream for wholesalers to enable sale of Linux solutions / software. (Encourage industry adoption of Linux and proliferation of available software / hardware). WHOLESALERS WILL NOT SELL FREE THINGS.

3. Encourage wholesaler to ship a distro with each new order from each customer.

4. Supply information along with distros to educate system builders, encourage multiple installations / copying.

==== Part Two ====

B. Apply this fix at the same time and continue to apply until fixed:
---------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Regroup all LUGs, Ubuntu community, Linux, open source and free software communities and quantify penetration of support (community-based) in each city / town nationwide for each country (ubuntupeople.com).

2. Enable these advocates to talk to communitites (not ours - REAL 'out there' ones).

3. Create a self-sufficient network of new users that eventually advocate and support themselves.

4. Provide a (third-party) revenue system for wholesalers to enable sale of Linux solutions / software. (Encourage industry adoption of Linux and proliferation of available software / hardware). RETAILERS WILL NOT SELL FREE THINGS.

5. New users ask system builders for Ubuntu.

6. Marketing efforts towards major system brands become more effective, as the market forces are quantified.

==== Solution: Linux / Open Source in the High Street. ====

Estimated stats: Average 1 in 40,000 population (main) system builders.

= 11,250 distros in Europe for phase #1
= 8,200 distros in North America for phase #1
