{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ever needed a way to update an already downloaded iso?

Here is a newer version. old one at the bottom:
<pre>

do_download()
{
## $1 = base url, not including http://:  cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current
## $2 = image name: jaunty-desktop-amd64.iso
  
  echo downloading "$2"
  
  time sudo ionice -c3 rsync -vvhP --stats rsync://$1/$2 /home/bugabundo/temp/OS_isos/
  wget -O - http://$1/MD5SUMS | grep $2
  echo "ionice do md5sum"
  time sudo ionice -c 3 md5sum /home/bugabundo/temp/OS_isos/$2
}

do_download cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current                       karmic-desktop-amd64.iso
do_download cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current                       karmic-desktop-i386.iso
do_download cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/dvd/current                              karmic-dvd-amd64.iso
do_download cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/dvd/current                              karmic-dvd-i386.iso
do_download cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/ubuntu-netbook-remix/daily-live/current  karmic-netbook-remix-i386.img

</pre>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

here is a small script to do that (based on https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RsyncCdImage)
There is an example for i386, all other are for AMD64.
You may need to install ionice, or remove it from your script. ionice allows the md5 to run with low priority and not use all your disc performence.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intrepid Ibex Daily AMD64

echo "download http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current/intrepid-desktop-amd64.iso"

time nice -n 15 rsync -zvvhhP --stats rsync://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current/intrepid-desktop-amd64.iso ~

wget -O - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/MD5SUMS | grep desktop-amd

echo "ionice do md5sum"

time sudo ionice -c3 md5sum ~/intrepid-desktop-amd64.iso
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Intrepid Ibex Daily i386

echo "download http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current/intrepid-desktop-i386.iso"

time nice -n 15 rsync -zvvhhP --stats rsync://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current/intrepid-desktop-i386.iso ~

wget -O - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/MD5SUMS | grep desktop-i386

echo "ionice do md5sum"

time sudo ionice -c3 md5sum ~/intrepid-desktop-i386.iso
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Intrepid Ibex Releases AMD64

nice -n 15 rsync -zhhP --stats rsync://http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/8.10/ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64.iso ~

wget -O - http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/8.10/MD5SUMS | grep desktop-amd64

echo "ionice do md5sum"

time sudo ionice -c3 md5sum ~/ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64.iso
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Intrepid Ibex DVD AMD64

echo "download http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/dvd/current/intrepid-dvd-amd64.iso"

time nice -n 15 rsync -zvvhhP --stats rsync://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/dvd/current/intrepid-dvd-amd64.iso ~

wget -O - http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/dvd/current/MD5SUMS | grep amd

echo "ionice do md5sum"

time sudo ionice -c3 md5sum ~/intrepid-dvd-amd64.iso
