{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Bug Fowarding Workflow (discussion notes) ==

=== Summary ===

The spec aims to improve the workflow of forwarding a bug upstream. Today, a bug is forwarded by first searching the upstream bug tracker for an existing bug, and then, if no bug was found, file a new one. After that it's possible to to link the Ubuntu bug to the upstream bug. This is quite a lot of work, though, and it should be possible to simple mark the bug as being an upstream bug, and then have someone else handle the upstream linkage.

=== Today's bug forwarding workflow ===

* If a bug is upstream, we have to find it in the upstream system, and then tie it together.
* Otherwise, file a new bug, and tie it together by hand.
* All of this is done by hand, which takes a lot of time to cross-correlate.

=== Problems with the current workflow ===

* Bug triagers have to do things by hand.
* Bug triagers become the single bottleneck for tracking bugs
* Bug reporters aren't the point of contact for upstream bugs
* Upstreams don't use Launchpad, and most of them don't want to

=== Goals of upstream communication ===

* Eliminate the middlemen
* Encourage co-operation between projects
* Work is offloaded to people who are best equipped to do it
* Only forward bugs that aren't our fault
* We should not be forwarding feature requests
* Forward bugs that have potential to be resolved.  Activity.
* Ubuntu developers file useful reports upstream
* Don't reject bugs, just because they have nothing to do with packaging.

=== Long-term solutions ===

* Creating an easy form letter to mail upstream.
** Create a bug tracker which is "E-mail to this address"
** Developer can push bug filing upstream through LP.
* Mark that something should go upstream, inside Launchpad
* Convince everyone to use Launchpad, better than Sourceforge.
* Distributed bug tracking network

=== Short-term solutions ===
* Reporting inside LP for which bugs haven't been filed upstream
* Package to a bug tracker associations by UI: (When clicking "Upstream", offer links to type in a bug number, open a search in that BTS, or file a new bug in that BTS.)
* Products should allow upstream to trivially add themselves as bug contact, with multiple bug contacts
* Should be easy to tie a bug tracker (real or pseudo) to every product.  These can be e-mail or URLs or whatever.
* Follow upstream duplicates to track real progress.
