{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The bughelper suite currently contains:

==== ./bugnumbers ====

This tool collects bug numbers from Launchpad. You can pass it
* `--version` which will return the version number of the bughelper suite
* `-l <URL>` for a Launchpad bug list URL
* `-p <package>` for a source package like `evolution`

Examples: <pre>
   bugnumbers -p evolution
   bugnumbers -l https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gcalctool/+bugs
</pre>

==== ./bughelper ====

This tool searches through bugs and tries to find matches with data in `.info` files. It has the same functionality and switches as `bugnumber`. In addition  to that it accepts 
* `--version` which will return the version number of the bughelper suite
* `-A` which lets it search through all the bug attachments with the mime type `text/plain`.
 
Examples: <pre>
   bughelper -p ubiquity
   bughelper -A -l https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/gcalctool/+bugs
</pre>

==== ./bugxml ====

This tool is primarily intended to help with the editing and creation of `.info` files. There are currently two use cases:
* `-a <source package> <condition> <information>` adds a simple clue to an existing file or creates a new one.
* `-e <string>` escapes a given string for use in XML files.
* `-v <file>` validates a given file against the clue file schema.

Examples: <pre>
   bugxml -a totem "libxine.so" "This might be a xine problem. Ask the reporter to check with xine-ui."
   bugxml -v packages/ubiquity.info
   bugxml -e This string has some weird characters like ä, ü and ö in it.
</pre>

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[BugHelper/doc]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
CategoryBugSquad<<BR>>
CategoryBugHelper
