{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== First contact ===

The following text could be used by the mentor when first contacting a newly assigned student. Mentors are free to use their own texts or adapt the mail provided, but by using the stock mail you can be sure all necessary information is included.

<pre>
Hello <<StudentName>>,

A while ago you requested a mentor to introduce you to bug triaging. Your
request has been processed by the administrators of the mentorship program and
I'm happy to tell you that I will be your mentor.

First let me introduce myself. I'm <<MentorName>>, known on IRC as
<<MentorIRCNick>>, and on Launchpad as <<MentorLPProfileLink>>. 

During your mentorship period I will introduce you to the process of triaging
bugs and make you familiar with the way we do things in the Bug Squad. The most
important communication channel we use is IRC. If you're not already in the
the 'ubuntu-bugsquad' mailing list[1].

All processes of the Bug Squad are documented at the wiki. Make sure to take a
look at <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad>. The wiki page
<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage> is a good resource for getting to
know the different things you need to do with bugs. You also want to read
<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Status> and
<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Importance>; those two pages explain the meanings
of the statuses and the priority levels we use for bug reports. In order to get
familiar with the tags we use to distinguish different bug reports please read
<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Tags> as well.

I will contact you on IRC soon so we can start with the mentorship. Meanwhile,
feel free to try triaging a few simple bugs already so you can see how it goes.
If you've got a question, please don't hesitate to mail me.

[1] https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad

Kind regards,
<<MentorName>>
</pre>

=== Student assignment ===

This email could be used by the mentorship team admins to notify mentors they've
been assigned a new student.

<pre>
Hello <<MentorName>>,

We've assigned you a student and added [him|her] to your list of students at
<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors>.

The name of the student is <<StudentName>>, [his|her] Launchpad profile is
<<StudentLPProfileLink>>, [his|her] IRC nick is <<StudentIRCNick>> and you can
find more information about the student on [his|her] wiki page, at
<<StudentWikiPageLink>>.

Please contact the student at the earliest convenience to introduce yourself.
A stock mail to do so can be found at
<https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors/Stock>. You're asked to report once a
month on your students in Bug Squad meetings that take place
on IRC, or — if you're not able to make it to one of the meetings — on the
mailing list of Bug Control.

The original request of the student contains some more information.
"<<RequestMailFromStudent>>"

Kind regards,
<<AdminName>>
Mentors Team Admin
</pre>

=== Student Approval response ===

This response could be used by the Admins of mentorship team while approving student's membership.

<pre>
Hi <<StudentName>> ,
You have been assigned <<MentorName>> as a mentor <<MentorLPProfileLink>> ,
[He|She] will be contacting you shortly. In the mean time, you can ask questions anytime on irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-bugs.
Thanks for helping with bugs.

Kind regards,
<<AdminName>>
Mentors Team Admin
</pre>

=== Student Rejection response ===

This response could be used by the Admins of mentorship team while declining a student's membership.

<pre>
Hi <<StudentName>> ,
You had applied for Bugsquad Mentorship , while reviewing your launchpad profile and wiki page we noticed the details were incomplete.
Kindly read the wiki for the requirements : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors .
Since your [launchpad|wiki] page does not have all the information required for assigning a mentor, we are declining your application for now.

Kindly update your wiki page with all the required information , link your wiki page to your launchpad profile and re-apply.
Thanks for your interest in bugsquad

Kind regards,
<<AdminName>>
Mentors Team Admin
</pre>

=== Student De-activating response ===
This response could be used by the Admins of mentorship team while de-activating an inactive student's membership.

<pre>
Hi <<Student Name>>,
You had applied for BugSquad Mentoring and had been assigned a mentor, <<mentor-name>>. 
However, the mentor has informed us that [he|she] has had no contacts from you for some weeks.
Since we are trying to maintain a team members list with currently active members only, we are deactivating your membership for now.

Kindly re-apply for Bugsquad mentorship when you have time for BugSquad and bug triage.
Thanks for your interest in BugSquad

Kind regards,
<Admin name>
Mentors Admin
</pre>

=== Adding a new Student to Team X ===

<pre>
Hello <<Student Name>>,
We are in the process of improving the mentorship program -- trying to
make it more flexible and make sure you graduate to Bug Control with a
good mentoring experience.

As such, I've included you to the launchpad team [1]. This team will have
around 10 mentees and four mentors assigned; the idea is to:

(1) have a mailing list that does not go beyond the mentee-mentor
relationship. This ML should be used for any email contact. (Usually the
doubts of one mentee are common to others.)
(2) get a better ratio mentor/mentee. 
(3) provide a better assurance that a mentee question will be timely
addressed. 

The list of things you need to follow:

- Make sure you read the 'How to Triage' wiki [2] pages well before
starting to work on bugs! 
- You should subscribe to group's Mailing List.
- Any doubts or questions you have, you should send email to the group's
Mailing List, not directly to mentors.
- You should use IRC whenever possible: a direct contact is better for
interaction than email exchange.
- On IRC *any* of us on #ubuntu-bugs can help. You can query either one
of the mentors, or anyone in the channel. Querying the channel usually
provides a better response (what 1 mentor does not know, another mentor
will probably know).

Please do not hesitate in contacting us if you have any doubts or
questions.

[1] https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad-mentorship-group-alpha
[2] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage
</pre>
