{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by pedro_ at 18:00:51 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-30-18.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions

* Engineering Team Bug Status

* Other Topics
''ACTION:'' pedro_ to update wiki + send email re the BugSquad Meeting  (pedro_, 18:35:44)

* Chair Selection
''ACTION:'' bdmurray to chair next meeting  (pedro_, 18:40:40)

Meeting ended at 18:41:11 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* pedro_ to update wiki + send email re the BugSquad Meeting
* bdmurray to chair next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* bdmurray
* * bdmurray to chair next meeting
* pedro_
* * pedro_ to update wiki + send email re the BugSquad Meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* pedro_ (44)
* bdmurray (20)
* gema (11)
* nailora (7)
* micahg (5)
* meetingology (5)
* njin (3)
* ubottu (3)
* alourie (3)
* bil21al (2)
* mfisch (1)
* h01ger (1)
* Ursinha (1)
* janak_dev (1)
* charlie-tca (1)
* ogra_ (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:00:51 <pedro_> #startmeeting

 18:00:51 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov 30 18:00:51 2011 UTC.  The chair is pedro_. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 18:00:51 <meetingology> 

 18:00:51 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:01:09 <pedro_> Welcome to our first Bugs meeting !

 18:01:22 <gema> o/

 18:01:23 <pedro_> as you might know the QA meeting was divided in two so this is the second part of it

 18:01:41 * alourie is back

 18:01:49 <alourie> ah

 18:01:52 <alourie> missed it

 18:01:56 <pedro_> The agenda can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meetings

 18:02:08 <mfisch> is the bugs meeting weekly now at this time?  the wiki is inconsistent on that

 18:02:32 <pedro_> there's not much items there so if you have any please keep it for the 'Others topics' topic

 18:03:03 <pedro_> mfisch, yeah we need to update it based on a discussion ie: should we keep the monthly bugsquad meeting or not?

 18:03:16 <pedro_> ok so first topic

 18:03:29 <pedro_> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 18:03:53 <pedro_> there was no previous actions so lets continue

 18:04:02 <pedro_> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status

 18:04:15 <pedro_> bdmurray, Ursinha anything you'd like to share?

 18:04:35 <Ursinha> nothing in particular :)

 18:04:56 <bdmurray> I fixed a bug yesterday which is a bit odd

 18:05:01 <bdmurray> bug 887705

 18:05:03 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 887705 in update-manager (Ubuntu) "wrong warning about unsupported Ubuntu release when upgrading to precise" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/887705

 18:05:30 <bdmurray> The gist of it is that update-manager reads infromation from meta-release files on changelogs.ubuntu.com to determine what releases are supported etec

 18:06:04 <bdmurray> so while you see the bug in update-manager it requires a fix in those files

 18:06:54 <bdmurray> kind of wacky and I thought that might be good to know

 18:07:38 <bdmurray> I've also been working with cprofitt on a bug reporting workflow diagram

 18:09:16 <bdmurray> There may very well be duplicates of bug 894768 being reported

 18:09:18 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 894768 in linux (Ubuntu Precise) "Installation randomly fails with: File "/usr/lib/ubiquity/ubiquity/install_misc.py", line 621, in copy_file targetfh.write(buf) IOError: [Errno 22] Invalid argument " [High,In progress] https://launchpad.net/bugs/894768

 18:09:59 <bdmurray> because it fails with different files bugs require manual inspection

 18:10:08 <bdmurray> that's all I have

 18:10:36 <pedro_> i was pinged by our QA folks regarding a failures they were seeing during the upgrade testing

 18:10:52 <pedro_> so in the end it was bug 893826

 18:10:53 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 893826 in qt4-x11 (Ubuntu Precise) "symlinked docs are different between architectures, depending on dpkg-deb package order" [High,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/893826

 18:11:08 <pedro_> it was fixed recently but worth keep an eye in case there's some dups

 18:11:43 <pedro_> anything else, anyone ?

 18:12:15 <pedro_> [TOPIC] Other Topics

 18:12:23 <gema> o/

 18:12:30 <pedro_> gema, please go ahead

 18:12:51 <gema> we (QA-platform team) are working on a new tagging scheme that will allow us to assess the quality of the automated testing, we are going to start using

 18:13:09 <gema> these tags for the automated testing: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestingTypeAndBugTracking

 18:13:26 <gema> just wanted to let you know we are going to be using them to be able to track things and generate reports for ISO testing

 18:13:33 <gema> please, do not remove those tags :)

 18:13:49 <gema> we haven't started, so if you have any suggestions, also welcome

 18:13:53 <gema> ..

 18:14:38 <bdmurray> gema: Does "upgrade testing" mean distribution upgrade or package upgrade?

 18:14:50 <gema> for now, it means distribution upgrade

 18:14:55 <gema> we are not doing any package upgrade testing yet

 18:14:55 <nailora> o/

 18:15:33 <pedro_> nailora, stage is all yours

 18:15:37 <nailora> i sent a mail to the bugsquad mailing list yesterday https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2011-November/003552.html

 18:15:48 <pedro_> (thanks gema!)

 18:15:54 <gema> (np)

 18:16:05 <nailora> after pedos invitiation i thought it might be brought up here

 18:16:50 <nailora> (if you are not prepared, nevermind, i will be happy to get replies via email)

 18:17:20 <nailora> bascially it is about what to do about unsupported hardware and an overload of bug reports

 18:19:03 <janak_dev> hi

 18:19:23 <bdmurray> nailora: Have you heard of apport package hooks?

 18:19:44 <bdmurray> With these you can change the bug reporting experience for reporters

 18:21:16 <nailora> i do know a little bit about them, it might help to improve the situation for the future

 18:21:45 <pedro_> is there any page for DebuggingScanners? like the DebuggingPrinting one? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingPrintingProblems

 18:22:11 <njin> nope

 18:22:12 <bdmurray> This would help gather the information for bugs and could prevent bug reporting

 18:22:54 <pedro_> nailora, perhaps contact the developers/maintainers to help to create such page? that way you can also point reports there to start collecting more useful information

 18:23:07 <pedro_> s/reports/reporters/g

 18:24:33 <nailora> i am in contact with the developer, and i will create some wiki pages, one as a landing page that can be cited in bug reports to explain why they are not that helpful and one similar to the page mentioned for printers

 18:25:08 <pedro_> nailora, awesome, thank you

 18:25:20 <pedro_> any other thoughts on nailora's topic?

 18:25:27 <bdmurray> I'll reply to the email later today

 18:26:23 <pedro_> thanks bdmurray

 18:26:27 <bdmurray> I think its important to prevent bugs from coming in if that's really what you want

 18:26:56 <bdmurray> I mean you could close them all but they'll just come back

 18:27:01 <micahg> o/

 18:27:15 <bdmurray> so have the reporting process be as informative as possible

 18:27:37 <pedro_> micahg, please go ahead

 18:27:51 <micahg> so, this is about the simple scan bug thread right?

 18:28:27 <bdmurray> yes

 18:29:58 <micahg> ok, so I just wanted to point out that if there is a bug somewhere, that we should try to get it to the right place, open bugs isn't a problem as long as they're valid (i.e. if the problem is in SANE or some other component, move it to the right place), if it's truly not a bug, just configuration help or what not, then we can convert to question

 18:30:48 <micahg> ..

 18:32:28 <pedro_> thanks micahg

 18:32:42 <pedro_> I have a topic as well

 18:33:34 <pedro_> since the meetings are now divided into Testing and Bugs , should we delete the Monthly BugSquad Meeting and start adding such topics to this one?

 18:33:56 <bdmurray> that makes sense to me

 18:34:00 <charlie-tca> +1

 18:34:11 <bil21al> sure

 18:34:13 <micahg> +1

 18:34:17 <bil21al> +1

 18:34:59 <h01ger> ogra_, i've been online too long today, i need to go afk.. sorry that i'll miss the meeting, have fun & good results!

 18:35:06 <pedro_> ok sounds good, lets do it , i'll update the wiki page and send an email with the info

 18:35:43 <ogra_> h01ger, heh, thanks, i'm not in edu stuff anymore though, but i'll tell the guys in #edubuntu

 18:35:44 <pedro_> [ACTION] pedro_ to update wiki + send email re the BugSquad Meeting

 18:35:44 * meetingology pedro_ to update wiki + send email re the BugSquad Meeting

 18:36:49 <pedro_> and last for me, please notice that the Mentorship program is now closed

 18:37:01 <pedro_> hggdh,  sent an email about that https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2011-November/003550.html

 18:37:10 <pedro_> thanks hggdh for taking care of it :-)

 18:37:37 <pedro_> anything else? any extra topic?

 18:38:23 <pedro_> seems not

 18:38:29 <njin> pedro_: do you want to mentor me next mopnths ?

 18:38:29 <pedro_> [TOPIC] Chair Selection

 18:38:58 <pedro_> njin, we can 'all' mentor you, just ask in the #ubuntu-bugs channel :-)

 18:39:09 <njin> :-)

 18:39:17 <pedro_> so who'd like to chair the next meeting?

 18:40:18 <bdmurray> o/

 18:40:32 <pedro_> thanks bdmurray

 18:40:40 <pedro_> [ACTION] bdmurray to chair next meeting

 18:40:40 * meetingology bdmurray to chair next meeting

 18:40:57 <pedro_> ok seems that's all for today

 18:41:05 <pedro_> thanks all !

 18:41:11 <pedro_> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
