{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

The KDE bugzilla hosts a range of packages that are upstream to Kubuntu including the KDE desktop and most KDE applications.

== Packages affected ==

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kubuntu-bugs/+packagebugs|Bug contact packages for the Kubuntu Team]]</nowiki>

== Using the bug tracker ==

KDE bugs are tracked upstream at '''<nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/|bugs.kde.org]]</nowiki>'''. Click 'New Account' in the bottom right corner and enter your email address.

=== Searching ===

The main page of '''<nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/|bugs.kde.org]]</nowiki>''' acts as a simple search. You can search for keywords from here. For more advanced control over search terms, use the  '''<nowiki>[[https://bugs.kde.org/query.cgi?format=advanced/|advanced search form]]</nowiki>'''

=== Filing new bugs ===

After searching for possible duplicates you can file a new bug using the guided bug filing. Include a basic description of the problem, including all relevant information in the Launchpad report, and link to the original Launchpad report:

'''TBD.''' stock text and example

On Launchpad, click "Also affects project" in the left column on the bug page, and link to the KDE bugzilla bug.

=== Tags and conventions ===

=== States ===

=== Following up ===
