{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Bug Squad ===
Consider joining the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> to keep up to date on current issues with triaging. However, joining is entirely optional but recommended.

Should you have any questions relating to triaging or other questions with regards to the Bug Squad team/process you can raise your questions in the <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.org-#ubuntu-bugs|#ubuntu-bugs]]</nowiki> channel on <nowiki>[[IRC|IRC]]</nowiki>. Members of the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugControl|Bug Control]]</nowiki>, and Canonical employees are available to answer any questions you might have.

=== Assigning Packages ===
Hundreds of bugs are filed <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.importance%3Alist=UNDECIDED&assignee_option=none&field.has_no_package=on|without a package]]</nowiki>, either because the reporter did not know the correct package, or was not aware how to assign their bug to a package. Assigning a package to a bug increases the chance of it being fixed greatly by sending the bug right to the developers that can fix it. It is very easy for a new member to start here and learn how to navigate Launchpad while getting to know the community.

Eventually one can learn what information is needed for some common reports and ask the reporters to attach logs or confirm bug reports. This is a first step on towards more advanced triaging.

More information can be found by visiting the <nowiki>[[Bugs-FindRightPackage]]</nowiki> page. 

=== Triaging Bugs ===
Bug triage is an essential part of Ubuntu's development.

Triaging bugs consists of several things:
* Responding to new bugs as they are filed.
* Ensuring that new bugs have all the necessary information.
* Assigning bugs to the proper package.
* Confirming bug reports by trying to reproduce them.
* Setting the priority of bugs reports.
* Searching for and marking duplicates in the bug tracking system.
* Sending bugs to their upstream authors, when applicable.
* Cross-referencing bugs from other distributions.
* Expiring old bugs.

However, you don't need to do all of those things to help!  Recreating a bug and setting the status to Confirmed is enough.

Bug triage is an excellent way to start helping out. You get to learn a lot about Ubuntu, its available packages, its infrastructure, and you get a feel for the development pulse.

You can learn how to triage bugs and chip in, just see the <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> page.

=== Hug Day ===
Another great way to get started is to participate in a <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay| Hug Day]]</nowiki>. A Hug Day is where we work together on triaging a specific section of Ubuntu in an effort to make a better release. It is called Hug Day because every bug worked on is worth a hug!

After participating in a few Hug Days, consider <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay-Organizing| organizing a HugDay]]</nowiki> for a package that you wish to see get some TLC.

=== 5-a-day ===
Some awesome members of Bug Squad have committed to not only triage bugs, but have committed to touching 5 bugs every day! See <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> for how to sign up for this optional group that can help track how many bugs you have triaged.

----
CategoryBugSquad
