{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''The Ubuntu Bug Squad is the entry point for helping to make Ubuntu better.'''

The BugSquad collectively provide the first point of contact for all the bugs filed against Ubuntu. This allows the Ubuntu developers to focus on dealing with bugs which have been prioritised and are reproducible with all the debugging details needed to allow a full analysis. BugSquad members with some experience can join the <nowiki>[[UbuntuQA]]</nowiki> team allowing them to set the priority of bugs for Ubuntu.

They keep track of all the bugs in the Ubuntu Distribution and make sure that major bugs don't go unnoticed by the developers. 

=== Joining the BugSquad ===
The only obligation when you join the BugSquad is to keep up to date with the bug management policies. No special skills are required to join the BugSquad.  There is a lot of information available regarding debugging and bug management workflow.  It is also provides you with a great opportunity to learn more about Ubuntu.

To join the BugSquad you need to have a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki> account (you can <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/+login|create one easily]]</nowiki>), and then you can <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad/+join|request membership]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad|bugsquad team]]</nowiki>.  You are also strongly encouraged to subscribe to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad|mailing list]]</nowiki> as it the primary method of communication for the BugSquad.

=== Contacting the BugSquad ===
There is an IRC channel on <code>irc.freenode.org</code> called <code>#ubuntu-bugs</code>. If you don't use IRC, or you don't get a quick response there, we also have a discussion <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad|mailing list]]</nowiki> that you can <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad|join]]</nowiki>.

=== How to make Ubuntu a better place ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage|Triage bugs]]</nowiki>
* Check <nowiki>[[http://daniel.holba.ch/bugs/|BugHelper reports]]</nowiki>
* Have healthy relationships with
** OUR USERS
** our upstream developers
** our Launchpad crew
* Improve the wiki to reflect best information for debugging
* spread more of the huggy, cheery atmosphere

Things you can do afterwards:
* sign up to receive the: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad|mailing list]]</nowiki>
* read this: <nowiki>[[HelpingWithBugs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[BugSquad/Diaries]]</nowiki>
* join the `#ubuntu-bugs` <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki> channel on `irc.freenode.net`
* have a look into <nowiki>[[BugHelper]]</nowiki>

=== How bugs are tracked ===
We use <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/malone|Malone]]</nowiki> for tracking and triaging bugs. All Ubuntu related bug activity happens there.

=== Statistics ===

* http://people.ubuntu-in.org/~carthik/bugstats/

=== Wiki pages ===

* <nowiki>[[/Observations]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/TShirtDesigns]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/AdoptPackage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Tags]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[/Diaries]]</nowiki>
=== Events ===

* '''<nowiki>[[/Meeting]]</nowiki>'''
* '''UbuntuBugDay'''

=== Documentation ===

* '''HelpingWithBugs'''
* <nowiki>[[MOTU/School/BugWork]]</nowiki> - How to Triage Bugs, given by Simon Law on `#ubuntu-motu-school`
* <nowiki>[[/DocumentationTODO]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuQA]]</nowiki>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryUbuntuTeams]]</nowiki>
