{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Minutes ===

===== Mentorship Updates =====

Not much here, most of the mentors were not present. hggdh will add more mentees to the alpha team. 

===== BugSquad wiki pages update =====

nigelb will keep on on the header consolidation. Carrying over.

====== Split of HowToTriage into basic and advanced pages ======

devildante is working on this, but was MIA this meeting. Will carry over.

===== Gnome3 bug handling =====

Gnome3 is being currently published on the Desktop PPA. The desktop team would like to tag Gnome3 bugs, in order to allow to separate them from the in-progress work for Natty. As of now it is unknown if we will be able to provide Gnome3 on Natty (so the PPA). It has not yet been decided how to deal with Gnome3 bugs generically. We agreed that:

* we will add 'gnome3' as an official tag; ''only''bugs relating to Gnome3 will be so tagged;
* we will add a comment on the tag stating that these are (right now) PPA bugs, and should not be touched by the triager community at-large (developers/maintainers will deal with them, until a clear course of action is defined);
* to allow easier/immediate identification, the bug title should start with '[GNOME3]'.

An additional note: since these packages come from a PPA, there will be no automatic apport triggering. The only way is to manually enter the bug.

bdmurray will add the tag to the official list.

===== Open Discussion =====

* charlie-tca reminded the team that a launchpad bug jam is currently in progress, and help is appreciated (<nowiki>[[https://dev.launchpad.net/BugJam|launchpad bugJam]]</nowiki>.

===== next chair =====

hggdh was self-elected (I forgot to ask for a next chair...)

=== Log ===
<pre>
[16:58] <ElPasmo> hi, will the bugsquad meeting be now here?
[17:00] <pedro_> i think so , it says 1700 UTC
[17:01] <ElPasmo> great, thanks pedro_
[17:01] <pedro_> hggdh, are you chairing the meeting? the wiki says so :-P
[17:12] <c2tarun> anyone here?
[17:12] <yofel> c2tarun: we're searching for hggdh
[17:12] <c2tarun> ok :)
[17:13] <hggdh> oh
[17:13] <hggdh> sorry, busy
[17:13] <hggdh> so...
[17:13] <hggdh> #startmeeting
[17:13] <hggdh> hellooooo
[17:13] <pedro_> hi there!
[17:13] <gtriderxc> 8
[17:13] <hggdh> where's the bot?
[17:13] <ElPasmo> hi there :)
[17:13] <c2tarun> busy too .. :P
[17:14] <yofel> mistook the 1 in the date for a 2 and went on vacation too early
[17:14] <hggdh> OK. The meeting is officially started (late, though, sorry). The bot does not seem to be here
[17:15] <hggdh> first, on the actions from the previous meetings
[17:15] <hggdh> er. This does not seem to be correct, but there I go:
[17:16] <hggdh> 1. Bug Day to be created for regression-potential tags
[17:16] <hggdh> did we not already discuss this?
[17:16] <pedro_> i think we already did that, yes
[17:17] <hggdh> heh. So the agenda is out-of-date... at least for the "previous meetings"
[17:17] <hggdh> so let's jump over to Mentorship programme update
[17:17] <pedro_> it was ran on 2010 10 21
[17:18]  * charlie-tca waves
[17:18] <hggdh> mentors -- please update on status
[17:19] <hggdh> from my side: ojap is slowly going on
[17:20] <hggdh> pedro_, vish, charlie-tca, yofel, & co: any updates on mentorship
[17:20] <hggdh> ?
[17:20]  * yofel isn't a mentor
[17:20] <pedro_> as in now , i don't have any student
[17:20] <charlie-tca> I am going to have the logo images broken down for us
[17:20]  * hggdh considers yofel *should* be one ;-)
[17:20] <charlie-tca> I have no mentees
[17:20] <pedro_> yeah yofel, definitely ;-)
[17:20] <charlie-tca> +1 for yofel to have at least oen
[17:21]  * charlie-tca should hide now
[17:21] <ElPasmo> oen?
[17:21] <pedro_> heh
[17:21]  * yofel hides and put's on an invisibility cape before anything more happens..
[17:21] <pedro_> s/oen/one ? :-)
[17:21] <ElPasmo> :P
[17:21] <hggdh> dyslexia, please pardon me
[17:21] <charlie-tca> See, I knew you would know what I meant
[17:22] <hggdh> what I see: mentorship is still slow
[17:22]  * charlie-tca trying to use three keyboards and two mice at once again
[17:22] <hggdh> mentees propose themselves, but do not really devote time
[17:22] <charlie-tca> Have we added people to group A yet?
[17:23] <hggdh> we have two there, yes
[17:23] <yofel> did the beginners team cooperation result in anything yet btw.?
[17:23] <charlie-tca> Can't we add a few more to the team?
[17:24] <hggdh> yes, we should
[17:24] <hggdh> [ACTION] I will look at the pending list and add some more
[17:24] <hggdh> next
[17:24] <hggdh> nigelb to edit bugsquad headers to be similar or link to each other appropriately
[17:24] <pedro_> yofel, as far as i know there's no much input on that
[17:25] <hggdh> nigelb: how has that gone?
[17:25] <ElPasmo> In fact I have a question about mentees, Should I have done some contributions before asking for a mentor or anyone can ask without any previous contribution?
[17:25] <nigelb> hggdh: I delayed it waiting for wiki update.  NOw that the update has hit, I'll get on it.
[17:25] <charlie-tca> ElPasmo: ask anytime you desire a mentor. Experience is not needed first
[17:25] <hggdh> ElPasmo: anyone can ask, as long as the pre-requisites are fulfilled
[17:25] <pedro_> ElPasmo, anyone can ask for it
[17:25] <ElPasmo> thanks :)
[17:25] <pedro_> heh
[17:25] <mrand> charlie-tca: check into synergy for the multiple mouse and keyboards
[17:26] <pedro_> why i didn't say : no! ?
[17:26] <hggdh> [ACTION] nigelb to keep on with update of bug page headers
[17:26] <charlie-tca> mrand: on different computers with three monitors?
[17:26] <mrand> charlie-tca: yes
[17:26] <charlie-tca> okay
[17:26] <charlie-tca> thanks
[17:26] <hggdh> next: devildante to split HowToTriage page up into a simple page and an advanced page
[17:27] <hggdh> devildante is MIA today. Anybody knows how this is progressing?
[17:27] <pedro_> i know he was working on it, but don't know the real progress as in today
[17:27] <pedro_> we can ask him on the ML though
[17:27] <hggdh> yes
[17:28] <hggdh> [ACTION] check with devildante about the split on basic/advanced HowToTriage
[17:28] <hggdh> and before I forget
[17:29] <hggdh> [ACTION] find out what happened with the meetingcology bot
[17:29] <pedro_> indeed
[17:29] <hggdh> now
[17:29] <hggdh> GNOME3 bug handling -- micahg
[17:29] <hggdh> micahg: please take over
[17:30] <hggdh> heh. micahg seems to be here only physically, mind elsewhere
[17:31] <hggdh> so
[17:31] <hggdh> Open Discussions.
[17:31] <micahg> ok, sorry
[17:31] <hggdh> micahg: please go on
[17:31] <hggdh> :-)
[17:31] <hggdh> micahg: I did the same just a few ago
[17:32] <micahg> so, the desktop team would like a way to tag bugs for the GNOME3 transition, most of it won't happy until natty+1, but they would like to be able to track bugs against their GNOME3 staging PPA
[17:32] <micahg> I wanted to propose a GNOME3 tag to be official at least for the next 2 cycles, how does everyone feel about that
[17:33] <hggdh> only one tag?
[17:33] <micahg> do we need more?
[17:33] <pedro_> what for you'd need more?
[17:33] <hggdh> IDK, I am not familiar with the desktop effort on Gnome3
[17:34] <seb128> there is nothing specific there
[17:34] <bdmurray> a gnome3 tag works for me
[17:34] <seb128> rather than landing the usual GNOME updates to natty we use a ppa
[17:34] <seb128> we might decide to move the ppa to natty if it's ready
[17:34] <seb128> otherwise it will land in natty+1
[17:34] <seb128> it's just that we are not confident yet that GNOME3 will be ready for natty
[17:35] <hggdh> OK. So bugs on the Gnome3 PPA are valid Ubuntu bugs -- folks, please do not forget this
[17:35] <seb128> well, they are valid but not targetting natty so far
[17:35] <seb128> so the same settings might not apply
[17:35] <seb128> they should not show on the r-t list
[17:36] <seb128> or the rc bugs listing
[17:36] <hggdh> seb128: the warning was mostly due to the fact that PPA-based bugs usually are not accepted
[17:36] <hggdh> seb128: so no targeting/milestoning these bugs, correct?
[17:36] <seb128> yeah, I'm still not sure we want to accept bugs about upstream issues
[17:36] <seb128> we do want bugs about distribution integrations issues though
[17:37] <seb128> or patches to updates
[17:37] <yofel> seb128: can't you have your own project for that bugs like kubuntu-ppa does?
[17:37] <seb128> seems suboptimal
[17:37] <yofel> you'll need an apport hook anyway since they're ppa packages
[17:37] <hggdh> there is that, yes
[17:38] <seb128> not sure we want apport bugs
[17:38] <yofel> and if you add a hook, then you can make to hook add the gnome3 tag
[17:38] <yofel> s/to/the/
[17:39] <hggdh> seb128: it sounds to me that you expect most of these bugs to be opened by developers or "official" testers, is this correct?
[17:39] <hggdh> i.e. manually opening them
[17:39] <Pici> w/22
[17:39] <Pici> sorry.
[17:40] <seb128> hggdh, well micahg raised the topic
[17:40] <seb128> I didn't think about it yet
[17:40] <seb128> but we don't want to be spammed with upstream bugs
[17:40] <njin> hello to all, does we have a 2.6.37 kernel-pae ?
[17:40] <seb128> we just want to know about integration issues
[17:40] <hggdh> njin: please wait a bit, in the middle of a meeting
[17:41] <micahg> hggdh: I would think mostly yes, but some things like gnome-shell will only be in the PPA unless GNOME3 lands, so we might get some users as well
[17:41] <hggdh> OK. Would it be fair to say, then, that we are adding the gnome3 tag, and details on how to deal with the _triaging_ will be ironed out later?
[17:41] <charlie-tca> If we at least get them tagged for gnome3, the ones that are not ours, someone who knows the package could delete, couldn't they?
[17:42] <hggdh> sounds plausible, charlie-tca. But I worry about triagers doing the Wrong Thing
[17:43] <seb128> hggdh, well we can start by adding the tag and see how it goes
[17:43] <seb128> I'm wondering if we want the topic to reflect that as well
[17:43] <seb128> ups
[17:43] <seb128> topic -> title
[17:44] <seb128> so those bugs are spotted easily from a bug list
[17:44] <hggdh> micahg, seb128: how about adding the tag to the official list, and adding a note on the HowToTriage asking to leave these bugs alone right now?
[17:44] <charlie-tca> If the tag is added to the tags page, it can explain what is happening with it
[17:44] <seb128> hggdh, works for me
[17:45] <micahg> wfm, too
[17:45] <seb128> we can tweak later when required
[17:45] <charlie-tca> and, of course, there will be hundreds of bugs we get questions about :-)
[17:45] <seb128> or if required
[17:45] <hggdh> seb128: a [GNOME3] in the title would make is immediately visible
[17:45] <seb128> yes
[17:45] <charlie-tca> I like that
[17:45] <njin> yes
[17:46] <hggdh> and, since right now they would have to be entered manually (no apport hook), this limits the number of probable OPs
[17:46] <hggdh> these pretty much know what to do
[17:46] <hggdh> How will update the tag list?
[17:47] <hggdh> /How/who/
[17:47] <bdmurray> I will
[17:48] <hggdh> [ACTION] bdmurray to add 'gnome3' as an official (temporary) tag, with a comment to leave these bugs alone for now
[17:48] <hggdh> anything else on GNOME3?
[17:48] <micahg> thanks hggdh, bdmurray, seb128
[17:49] <hggdh> OK
[17:49] <hggdh> Open Discussion
[17:49] <hggdh> anyone would like to share/comment/ask anything related to triaging?
[17:50] <hggdh> <dead silence ensues/>
[17:50] <charlie-tca> o/
[17:50] <hggdh> charlie-tca: please go ahead
[17:50] <charlie-tca> Launchpad is having a 2010BugJam
[17:50] <charlie-tca> They would like to close 6500 bugs
[17:50] <hggdh> oooohhhh
[17:50] <hggdh> OOOOHHHH
[17:50] <hggdh> when?
[17:50] <charlie-tca> https://dev.launchpad.net/BugJam
[17:50] <charlie-tca> now
[17:51] <charlie-tca> 13th-24th December 2010
[17:51] <micahg> charlie-tca: I believe those are launchpad project bugs :)
[17:51] <ElPasmo> Is tomorrow a class at #ubuntu-classroom about Basic Triaging at 17:00 UTC?
[17:51] <charlie-tca> Does that mean we can't help?
[17:52] <hggdh> but important to us also ;-)
[17:52] <micahg> charlie-tca: no, it only means it's tangentially related ;)
[17:52] <hggdh> ElPasmo: I think yes
[17:52]  * micahg thought it was today
[17:52] <charlie-tca> I thought the class was today?
[17:52] <hggdh> charlie-tca: on the 15th
[17:52] <micahg> well, calendar says tomorrow, but I thought it was today
[17:53] <charlie-tca> Isn't that where devildante is today?
[17:53] <micahg> Yeah, I think the wrong date was entered
[17:53] <ElPasmo> oh no... I've missed it :(
[17:53] <yofel> classroom is dead silent though
[17:54] <hggdh> yes, nothing happening there
[17:54] <hggdh> and, on the Fridge calendar, it is scheduled for tomorrow
[17:55] <hggdh> so...
[17:55] <hggdh> ElPasmo: it is indeed tomorrow, I guess ;-)
[17:55] <ElPasmo> Well, and excuse my ignorance, but I  suppose that the mentoring processs you talked before is the motu mentoring process?
[17:55] <ElPasmo> Thanks hggdh
[17:55] <hggdh> ElPasmo: no, not at all
[17:56] <hggdh> we deal with *triaging*, not with packaging/development
[17:56] <hggdh> although a lot of us also do that
[17:56] <ElPasmo> I see, Are they incompatible?
[17:56] <hggdh> not incompatible, just two completely different things
[17:57] <hggdh> MOTUs also do triaging
[17:57] <hggdh> but not necessarily triagers do packaging/developing
[17:57] <ElPasmo> Can you point me a link with the bugsquad mentoring?
[17:57] <yofel> ElPasmo: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors
[17:57] <ElPasmo> thanks :)
[17:58] <hggdh> any other questions?
[17:59] <hggdh> given the silence...
[17:59] <hggdh> #endmeeting
[17:59] <hggdh> and yes, I know the bot is not there ;-)
[17:59] <hggdh> uffff
[17:59] <hggdh> sorry for the delay again, folks
</pre>
