{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Old Meeting page:

The next meeting will be 
* on ...  Does anyone whant to have one? --BrianMurray 2007-06-29
* in #ubuntu-meeting

=== Our Agenda ===

* Need to define a procedure to deal with "needsinfo" and "unconfirmed" bugs that have had no response for an extended period. Specifically, should such bugs be closed after getting timed out, and what is the time period (waiting time) before closing these bugs? --CarthikSharma
  It seems that '''3-4 weeks''' and one of the nice <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses]]</nowiki> was agreed in https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting/Minutes/2006-03-28 --AlexMuntada
   Aren't we supposed to triage bugs on system which is still supported? Ie 18 months for normal releases, and three years for LTS-releases. Isn't that what it is about? --MartinAhnelöv
  Yes, we are supposed to triage bugs on systems that are still supported however it if a bug is "Incomplete" that means that there is not enough information to work on the bug.  If there is not enough information to work on it then the bug is "Invalid".  What I have personally noticed is that people may miss your bug mail that marks the bug as "Incomplete" but the "Invalid" bug mail gets their attention. --BrianMurray 2007-06-29
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingUbiquity is very helpful since it provides "symptoms" of known bugs and how to mark them. Could this list be updated with newer confirmed bugs? Also can we have more of such pages to help triagers who might not be experts in the software, but can identify duplicates given clear "symptoms"? --CarthikSharma
* Can we have more tighter communication between various dev teams and sub-groups of bug triagers so the devs can let the triagers now how exactly to help reduce their load, and what their bug-triaging preferences are? A lot of triagers could do better with clear instructions, tasks, and goals. Asking them to start with the unconfirmed bugs and confirm as many as possible is only one of many possibilities to use the Bugsquad's manpower :) --CarthikSharma
* As an extension of the following two items (what to do with duplicates? etc) I'd suggest we have a page with "best practices" for dealing with various scenarios --CarthikSharma
* What to do with duplicates? Reject them or leave them in their current state? (JeremieCorbier)

<pre>
<Kamion> Seveas: (for the record I would prefer duplicates not to be Rejected as a general rule, just marked as duplicate - marking them Rejected makes it more effort to clean up in the event that a mistake is made)
<Kamion> there's no need to reject them because Malone doesn't show duplicates by default anyway
<Seveas> ack
<Kamion> thanks
<Seveas> sfllaw really should work on collecting such info and making guidelines -- most people reject duplicates and if that should not be done for a subset of packages that should be noted somewhere Ä
</pre>
* "<neutrinomass> Hm...what about left-over UVF from the dapper release cycle that were not granted (overlooked probably) and with the requested version in edgy ? "-- CarthikSharma
* <add your point here>

==== Misc ====
* <nowiki>[[BugSquad-Meeting-Minutes]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[BugSquad-Meeting-Announce]]</nowiki>
