{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

Topics discussed at this meeting:

*** Rationale behind this Meeting -- andresmujica
*** New bug trends identified by triagers -- andresmujica
*** Bugs that need attention/help/mentoring -- andresmujica
*** Open Discussions -- bcurtiswx 

=== Minutes ===

===== Rationale behind this meeting =====

andresmujica explained why the meeting was proposed; as a mean of improving BugSquad triage duties, help the members,  identifying needed tasks. pedro_ and hggdh both consider that is a great way to improve comunication between team members and help triagers to get more involved. Bdmurray raised the point that some of the topics need a wider audience than just the meeting, as many of the BugSquad memebers cannot assist for timezone differences.

TheKorn also proposed to open a monthly slot at the QA regular meeting for triaging discussion. However previous experience at that meeting indicated that the normal topics cover all the time slot available.

The conclusion was to move on and evaluate if the proposed topics would fit well with this meeting format.

===== New bug trends identified by triagers =====

The idea here was to discuss at the meeting new trends, however as azimout pointed out, this kind of topic needs a faster response so the apropiate place would be the ML.

So the conclusion was that triagers should arise new trends detected by them at the Mailing List to obtain a faster reaction from the BugSquad members.

Also the creation of a wiki page for consolidating New Trends and Infamous Bugs at each Release Cycle was proposed.  The layout of this wiki page would be discussed at ML.

===== Bugs that need attention/help/mentoring =====

It was discussed which approach would be more effectively for the mentoring process, as Bdmurray explained the LP mentoring is targeted to help fixing bugs, and the mentoring needed at the BugSquad was more oriented towards helping new members to triage effectively more bugs.

Everyone agreed that the best way of mentoring at the BugSquad was asking at the #ubuntu-channel and at the Mailing list.

Also pedro_ reminded everyone about the Mentor's wiki page. The idea is that Bugcontrol team members include their IRC nicknames in that page so people looking for mentors can ask them directly at the channel.

The following links were useful for this topic:

*** https://help.launchpad.net/Teams/Mentoring
*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors

===== Open Discussion =====

bdmurray asked how people attending UDS can help out the Bug Squad, and hggdh asked for better debugging instructions for more packages, giving some useful links from other distributions.

*** https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/DebuginfoFS
*** http://en.opensuse.org/Submitting_Bug_Reports

As more feedback is needed bdmurray would ask about this at the ML.

Also for the final discussion the general consensus was to held MONTHLY meetings the 2nd Tuesday of the Month.  So the next meeting would be at June 9th same hour same channel.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, June 9th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
17:01	andresmujica1	#startmeeting
17:01	MootBot	Meeting started at 11:01. The chair is andresmujica1.
17:01	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
17:01	andresmujica1	ok
17:02	andresmujica1	let's put our first proposed topic
17:02	andresmujica1	before that the proposed agenda is here
17:02	andresmujica1	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting
* pedro_ looking
17:03	andresmujica1	[TOPIC] Rationale behind this Meeting -- andresmujica
17:03	MootBot	New Topic:  Rationale behind this Meeting -- andresmujica
17:03	andresmujica1	Some weeks ago an email wass sent to bugsquad/bugcontrol mailing list proposing a formal meeting for bugsquad members
17:04	andresmujica1	the main objective for this meeting is to improve our triaging duties, help us each other, identifying some needed tasks, and everything that you may consider would benefit us as a team
17:05	andresmujica1	so i wonder what the members think about this?
17:05	andresmujica1	why are the expectations? and thoughts?
17:05	andresmujica1	s/why/which/
17:06	hggdh	presonally, I consider it a good idea -- not only for -control, but for any other triager that wants to get involved in triaging
17:06	pedro_	I think it's a great way to improve the communication of the bugsquad itself, people can come to here and ask for help, be more involved with the team, etc
17:07	txwikinger_work	+1
17:07	andresmujica1	ohh, yes this is for every bugsquad member, even if they aren't member yet, this would be a great introduction i believe.
17:07	hggdh	even with the wiki, there are always questions on procedure, and they could be if not addressed here, at least discussed
17:07	pedro_	so it's going to be a monthly meeting?
17:07	andresmujica1	not only control, but one of the ideas is to help introduce to the team new members.
17:07	bdmurray	I think some issues should have a wider audience, perhaps the mailing list, than just this meeting though.
17:08	andresmujica1	the initial propose was to held it monthly..
17:08	andresmujica1	bdmurray: you believe this can overlap with mailing list or idle time at the channel??
17:10	bdmurray	I just think that due to the wide variety of time zones that bug squad members inhabit some issues are best discussed on the mailing list as opposed in a meeting a specific time that not everyone may be able to attend.
17:10	hggdh	bdmurray, I agree -- the meeting is not enough. Overlapping with idle time in #ubuntu-bugs does not help, if the pieces of userful information are spread through time
17:11	andresmujica1	yea i believe that too.  Maybe we should focus on certain topics that can be addressed here
17:11	andresmujica1	i wonder, as you had formal meetings in the past, why they're not active anymore?
17:12	thekorn	my (very) personal opinion is: don't start yet another meeting, why not using the QA meeting on wednesday for discussions around the bugsquad,
17:13	bdmurray	The QA meeting usually ends up taking most of the time alloted for it.
17:13	thekorn	we could even add a bi-weekly or monthly topic to the agend for bugsquad topics
17:13	andresmujica1	hmm that could be a good idea.
17:14	bdmurray	When looking at each topic I think it is important to evaluate the utility of discussing it in a meeting versus on the mailing list.
17:14	charlie-tca	If another meeting needs to be held, it should be kept within the allotted time.
17:16	hggdh	OK. I propose we finish this item on the mailing list; and move on
17:16	andresmujica1	OK.
17:16	hggdh	otherwise we will use all time to discuss if we are, or are not to have meetings
17:16	andresmujica1	But this item is important as it would determine if we are going to stablish a regular meeting or not.
17:16	thekorn	good idea
17:16	andresmujica1	yes.
17:17	bdmurray	Why don't we try to evaluate the appropriateness of each topic as they come up?
17:17	hggdh	+1
17:17	andresmujica1	+1
17:17	andresmujica1	ok so let's move with next topic.
17:17	andresmujica1	everyone agree?
17:18	pedro_	yeah, let's go on
17:18	hggdh	andresmujica1, you are the chair ;-)
17:18	andresmujica1	[TOPIC] New bug trends identified by triagers
17:18	MootBot	New Topic:  New bug trends identified by triagers
17:19	andresmujica1	The idea to propose this topic is that as we are A LOT of triagers
17:19	andresmujica1	some of them had found some bug trends...
17:19	andresmujica1	for example
17:19	andresmujica1	as soon as Intrepid went out, cheese had a regression due to uvcvideo,
17:19	andresmujica1	and a lot of people were affected
17:20	andresmujica1	another example is X freeze bugs..
17:20	andresmujica1	so i believe that when a triager believes it has found some big issue, it can be discussed here to take apropiate measurements..
17:21	andresmujica1	don't know what you think?
17:21	pace_t_zulu	sorry i'm late, is this the BugSquad meeting?
17:21	hacktick	me too...
17:21	andresmujica1	pace_t_zulu: yes it is, welcome!
17:21	bdmurray	So this is a topic that may be best for the mailing list since more triagers will be able to comment on / act on the trend.
17:21	azimout	pace_t_zulu: yes it is
17:21	hacktick	hello everyone
17:21	pace_t_zulu	hello everyone, my name is John Haitas
17:21	hggdh	hum. I think that if a trend is perceived, the ML is the fastest way to get it out
17:21	azimout	andresmujica1: how would such a trend be discussed "here", if these meetings will be monthly?
17:22	pace_t_zulu	apologies for my tardiness.... i will sit back and listen
17:22	pedro_	if they found something that could be big , that should be raised on the ML, right?
17:22	pedro_	hggdh: +1
17:22	andresmujica1	yes, you're absolutely right.  So maybe we need more ML for this kind of issues?
17:22	hggdh	but we *could* have a wiki showing current trends
17:22	andresmujica1	have we ever do that?
17:22	pedro_	could we adopt what bdmurray said and send this to the ML rather?
17:22	micahg	wiki, or could maybe a section of brainstorm or something similar?
17:23	azimout	wiki sounds good...
17:23	bdmurray	Checking the wiki requires work on readers parts while an e-mail to the mailing list with show in their inbox
17:23	andresmujica1	yeap.. if it's a trend we need faster reaction...
17:23	micahg	people can subscribe to the wiki page
17:23	charlie-tca	This needs to be on the mailing list so action can happen fast enough
17:24	bdmurray	I'd propose summarizing the trend in the mailing list message and document it at a wiki page
17:24	andresmujica1	OK.
17:24	hggdh	the ML should always be used to communicate a trend; the wiki can be used just as a consolidation
17:24	hggdh	bdmurray, +1 (you *are* a fast typist ;-)
17:24	andresmujica1	and we can have a consolidation page for each release cycle ?
17:24	charlie-tca	Agreed. Discussion should happen at mailing list level
17:24	hggdh	we can
17:25	pedro_	andresmujica1: that'd be ideal
17:25	bdmurray	I do think having a wiki page with infamous bugs for a release would be quite useful.
17:25	andresmujica1	[IDEA] New Trends discussion should happen at mailing list level
17:25	MootBot	IDEA received:  New Trends discussion should happen at mailing list level
17:26	pace_t_zulu	+1
17:26	azimout	how about automating this functionality in launchpad?
17:26	azimout	or is it already there?
17:26	hggdh	azimout, the idea is good, but this is a complex thing to get.
17:26	azimout	something like "bugs with most activity in the past 7 days"
17:27	bdmurray	azimout: Those usually end up already being known to the development team
17:27	hggdh	er, packages with the most bugs would be better
17:27	azimout	or "bugs with the most duplicates added in the past 7 days"
17:27	azimout	hggdh: with the most *new* bugs, you mean?
17:28	bdmurray	wrt bugs with the most duplicates this report may be helpful - http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/launchpad-database/bugs-with-most-duplicates.html
17:28	hggdh	yes, for example. But I think this has to be more carefully considered, and it all falls into the wiki page bdmurray suggested
17:29	andresmujica1	well, but for the topic discussed, i believe that our work as team member is to report at the ML the trend identified, and then with the existing reports and experience of the people here we can confirm it
17:29	andresmujica1	to take the actions needed.
17:30	hggdh	+1. Layout of  wiki page should be discussed off-meeting, though
17:30	andresmujica1	ok.
17:31	andresmujica1	[IDEA] WIKI page consolidating new trends
17:31	MootBot	IDEA received:  WIKI page consolidating new trends
17:31	andresmujica1	[ACTION] Discuss the convenience or not of a Wiki page with bad bugs per cycle at the ML
17:31	MootBot	ACTION received:  Discuss the convenience or not of a Wiki page with bad bugs per cycle at the ML
17:32	andresmujica1	next topic then,
17:32	andresmujica1	[TOPIC] Bugs that need attention/help/mentoring
17:32	MootBot	New Topic:  Bugs that need attention/help/mentoring
17:32	andresmujica1	the discussion maybe would be similar to the previous one?
17:33	bdmurray	If you mean triage mentoring, like what should I do with bug X then again I think asking the question on the mailing list may be best.
17:33	thekorn	I think we have two ways for this bugs ask in #ubuntu-bugs or ask on the ML
17:33	bdmurray	This might also motivate other new triagers to ask questions if these types of questions are being asked on it.
17:34	hggdh	didn 't we reopen mentoring for triage?
17:34	bdmurray	hggdh: Do you mean the mentoring thing in Launchapd?
17:34	hggdh	bdmurray, yes
17:34	thekorn	great idea
17:35	thekorn	we would be the first team using it ;)
17:35	andresmujica1	:)
17:35	bdmurray	That's really more for fixing bugs than for triaging bugs.  Additionally, if I can mentor someone triaging bugs I can usually do the triaging faster than waiting for someone else.
17:35	bdmurray	Because the amount of time it takes to triage is usually significantly less than the time it takes to fix a bug.
17:36	micahg	well, I've had great help from the #ubuntu-bugs channel and hddgh in particular in learning how to triage
17:36	hggdh	well, yes. But this is a way for passing knowledge. I have been doing a lot if it lately
17:36	andresmujica1	that's right, however maybe we can somehow help new members with mentoring.. so they can triage more effectively the bugs
17:36	micahg	and I've been able to triage about 100 bugs since I started about 2 weeks ago
17:36	bdmurray	I think the right way to approach this is having people asking to help rather than looking at a bug and offering to help with it.
17:36	micahg	mentoring is a great help
17:37	azimout	can someone please paste the link to mentoring in LP?
17:37	hggdh	prehaps we should stress the -bugs as a channel for that
17:37	bdmurray	If I'm already looking at the bug I might as well work on it.
17:37	hggdh	(although this *is* the idea behind it)
17:38	azimout	i wanted to remind everyone that any advice on mentoring should also be added to the wiki, to avoid repeated questions
17:38	hggdh	bdmurray, I agree, and most of the times I am itching to get it done. But by leaving the work to the new triager, I am sure I end up helping more. But it *does* take much longer
17:38	micahg	it's the same with any training though
17:38	andresmujica1	mentoring as a way to get more bugs effectively triaged
17:38	micahg	initially you can do it faster yourself
17:38	bdmurray	And this is why I think we should promote people asking questions about the bugs they are looking at or find.
17:38	showard_	in my opinion, mentoring is helpful telling new people the tricks on how to triage efficiently and finding the bugs with highest impact. Wiki and -bugs can help single bugs
17:38	micahg	but eventually you have more hands to help
17:38	azimout	never mind: https://help.launchpad.net/Teams/Mentoring
17:39	hggdh	so. To summarise: do we do mentoring, or not?
17:39	bdmurray	I think mentoring is a valuable thing but marking bugs as mentoring offered is not.
17:39	andresmujica1	ok, so the mentoring model applyable here is at the channel
17:39	micahg	+1 bdmurray
17:40	micahg	except for fixing bugs as bdmurray mentioned in the beginning
17:40	hggdh	+1
17:40	azimout	+1
17:40	charlie-tca	+1
17:40	thekorn	+1 for passiv mentoring: answering questions on -bugs or on the mailinglist is the best way to do mentoring
17:40	txwikinger_work	+1
17:40	andresmujica1	ok
17:40	andresmujica1	everyone should be a mentor or we should distinguish them?
17:41	pedro_	I've created a page some time ago https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors
17:41	bencrisford	we could organise it like the MOTU do?
=== fader is now known as fader|lunch
17:41	pedro_	where everybody on the bugcontrol team can add their self if they are willing to mentor someone
17:42	bdmurray	Putting irc nicks on that wiki page might help too
17:42	hggdh	this will imply that a triager can target you on a question. So, please only put your name/nick there if you are willing to answer
17:42	bdmurray	We could also contact the bugcontrol mailing list for mentors.
17:42	thewrath	not spamming lol
17:43	hggdh	bdmurray, good idea
17:43	pedro_	that'd be nice, yes
17:43	pace_t_zulu	I think I would do well to have a Mentor
17:43	pace_t_zulu	So that I can be more effective triaging
17:44	andresmujica1	so the idea for mentoring  would be: answering questions on -bugs or on the mailinglist and put irc nicks at the wiki page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors
17:44	andresmujica1	ok, next topic
17:45	bdmurray	and contact the bug control mailing list for ments
17:45	andresmujica1	right!
17:45	andresmujica1	[TOPIC] Open Discussions -- bcurtiswx
17:45	MootBot	New Topic:  Open Discussions -- bcurtiswx
17:46	hggdh	well, bcurtiswx is note here. Anyone willing please chime in
17:46	andresmujica1	well. We've covered a pair of topics, and they're probably better handled at the ML, however there are still some topics that could get into this format
17:47	andresmujica1	and as far as i can see
17:47	bdmurray	One thing I'm curious to know is how people attending UDS can help out the Bug Squad.
17:47	andresmujica1	one big conclusion is that we need to use a lot more the ML.
17:47	hggdh	bdmurray, what do you mean?
17:48	hggdh	hum. Better debugging instructions for more packages, for starters
17:48	bdmurray	hggdh: I mean since I'm going there, is there anything I can find out for people?  In terms of having hallway conversations with developers or Launchpad people.
17:49	hggdh	yes -- we need to beef up the debugging procedures
17:49	micahg	+1 hggdh
17:49	hggdh	we only have a handfull of packages nowadays
17:49	andresmujica1	which ones from the bugsquad would attend to UDS ?
17:49	azimout	+1 hggdh
17:50	andresmujica1	ok, we've got 10 more minutes.
17:50	andresmujica1	so should we have monthly meetings for the bugsquad team?
17:51	azimout	let's do lp improvements then
17:51	hggdh	bdmurray, one thing to get there is if we could have something like this: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/DebuginfoFS
17:51	bdmurray	I'll send an e-mail to the bugsquad regarding how UDS attendees can help.
17:52	andresmujica1	ok.
17:52	micahg	we've got something like that
17:52	micahg	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures
17:52	hggdh	sounds like once-a-month is not bad. We can revisit it on the ML
17:52	hggdh	micahg, yes, but there are many more packages than what we currently provide there
17:52	micahg	indeed
17:53	hggdh	(and we *did* get something done here, so it was worth it)
17:53	andresmujica1	yes.
17:53	andresmujica1	i do believe that too
17:53	andresmujica1	we should make a vote?
17:54	bdmurray	I thought I saw that SUSE had a wiki page with some debugging procedures for various packages that we might look at
17:54	hggdh	bdmurray, will look at it
17:54	bdmurray	http://en.opensuse.org/Submitting_Bug_Reports
17:54	MootBot	LINK received:  http://en.opensuse.org/Submitting_Bug_Reports
17:54	bdmurray	And of course looking at upstream project pages might be useful
17:54	andresmujica1	everyone agrees with having a bugsquad monthly meeting would be useful?
17:54	hggdh	right now -- once-a-month? +/-1, please
17:54	hggdh	+1
17:55	andresmujica1	+1
17:55	micahg	+1
17:55	charlie-tca	+1
17:55	pedro_	+1
17:55	bdmurray	+1
17:55	andresmujica1	great!
17:55	azimout	+1
17:55	mib_u03jo9xa	+1
17:55	pace_t_zulu	+1
17:56	bdmurray	June 9th? continuing with the 2nd Tuesday trend?
17:56	hggdh	+1
17:56	andresmujica1	+1
17:56	andresmujica1	2nd Tuesday is perfect
17:56	charlie-tca	Yes, makes it easier to keep it the same
17:56	azimout	+1
17:57	andresmujica1	so, i believe we should streamline the topics for this meeting so they don't clash with ML and -bugs and get useful for this format.  I wonder of the proposed topics listed at the wiki,  which ones do you believe that  we must discuss next meeting?
17:57	mib_u03jo9xa	+1
17:57	azimout	but, we didn't do the lp improvements part :-(
17:57	charlie-tca	Nor is the person that proposed it here.
17:57	andresmujica1	:(  we need lp improvements :) but is OK if we let that topic for next meeting? or anyone wants to move to our channel?
17:58	charlie-tca	Is it real important?
17:58	charlie-tca	If not, postpone it to the next meeting
17:58	showard_	ML with proposals for changes?
17:58	mib_u03jo9xa	does lp = LaunchPad?
17:58	pace_t_zulu	mib_u03jo9xa: yes
17:58	azimout	important yes, urgent no. +1 for next meeting
17:58	pedro_	mib_u03jo9xa: yeap
17:58	hggdh	let's get to a quick chat on -bugs, and finish this meeting
17:58	hggdh	1 minute
17:58	andresmujica1	ok
17:59	bdmurray	andresmujica1: thanks for organizing this!
17:59	andresmujica1	[AGREED] NExt meeting would be held on June 9th 16.00 UTC at #ubuntu-meeting
17:59	MootBot	AGREED received:  NExt meeting would be held on June 9th 16.00 UTC at #ubuntu-meeting
17:59	andresmujica1	#endmeeting
17:59	MootBot	Meeting finished at 11:59.
17:59	andresmujica1	thanks to all of you, let's chat a bit at -bugs
17:59	hggdh	thank you, foks
18:00	pedro_	thanks you all
18:00	micahg	thanks everyone
18:00	charlie-tca	Thanks, everyone. And a big thank you to andresmujica1 for organizing this.
18:00	andresmujica1	thanks to all of you to attending!!
</pre>
