{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

A short explanation of the different tasks:

==== New Bugs ====
You look after 'New Bugs' and <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage|process them appropriately]]</nowiki>.

===== Required =====
* A Launchpad account

''Look at the <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage#Untriaged_bugs|Untriaged bugs]]</nowiki> section of <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> for an explanation of the required actions for this task.''

==== Confirmed Bugs ====
You check  for ''Confirmed'' bugs that are not being looked after or that need to be set to ''Triaged'' and do with them whatever is needed.

''Look at the <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage#Confirmed_bugs|Confirmed bugs]]</nowiki> section of <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> for an explanation of the required actions for this task.''

===== Required =====
* A Launchpad account
* Membership of <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugControl|Ubuntu Bug Control]]</nowiki>

==== Forwarding upstream ====
You forward bugs upstream. These reports need to contain enough information to be useful to the developers, we don't want to force them to start the triaging process over again.
You could start with bugs that are marked as needing forwarding or go through the ''Triaged'' bugs yourself.

===== Required =====
* A Launchpad account
* An account for the upstream bug tracker

''Look at the<nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage#Forwarding_upstream|Forwarding upstream]]</nowiki> section of <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> for an explanation of the required actions for this task.''

==== Old Bugs ====
This is a bit of a special kind of task since it's not limited to any specific kind of stage of the triaging process like the tasks above. Instead you focus on bug reports that have been lingering around for a while. You:
* Verify if the bug can still be reproduced on supported releases
* Triage the bug

After a while you should be finished with this task since this<nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptionTeam|adoption team]]</nowiki> keeps the package tidy and clean. However, it might be wise to still keep an eye out for bugs that are forgotten.

===== Required =====
* A Launchpad account
