{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Wordsmithing page for '''https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug''' 

=== Current version ===

<pre>
Thank you for using Ubuntu and taking the time to report a bug. Your report should contain, at a minimum, the following information so we can better find the source of the bug and work to resolve it.

Submitting the bug about the proper source package is essential. For help see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage . Additionally, in the report please include:

1) The release of Ubuntu you are using, via 'cat /etc/lsb-release' or System -> About Ubuntu.
2) The version of the package you are using, via 'dpkg -l PKGNAME | cat' or by checking in Synaptic.
3) What happened and what you expected to happen.

The Ubuntu community has also created debugging procedures for a wide variety of packages at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures . Following the debugging instructions for the affected package will make your bug report much more complete. Thanks!</pre>

=== Proposed version ===

<pre>
Thank you for using Ubuntu and taking the time to report a bug. Your report should at a minimum contain the following information:

1) The release of Ubuntu you are using, via 'cat /etc/lsb-release' or System -> About Ubuntu.
2) The version of the package you are using, via 'dpkg -l PKGNAME | cat' or by checking in Synaptic.
3) What happened and what you expected to happen.

Where possible, please use the 'Report a Problem' feature which attaches useful system information. See https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs for instructions. 

If submitting manually, please attempt to find the right source package and provide debugging information. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures . Thanks!</pre>
