{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===
It is sometimes the case that we need to contact a large volume of bug reports.  It is much more efficient to leverage python-launchpad-bugs to help automate a response.  However, bug reporters deserve and expect that communication in a bug report is coming from an actual individual and not just a bot.  It should be clear in the comment that the response they are receiving is an automated response.  Additionally, the automated response should contain information about how any replies to the automated response will be monitored.

=== Requirement ===
Please be sure to contact the Ubuntu QA Team before sending any automated response to bug reports.

=== Format ===
Automated responses to bug reports should adhere to the following format.

# The comment will always be prefaced with '''*** This is an automated response ***'''
# This should be followed by the text you want to send to each bug report.
# Make sure to notify the bug reporter(s) how any replies will be handled.

=== Example ===
<pre>
* ** This is an automated response ***

The Ubuntu Kernel Team is planning to move to the 2.6.27 kernel for the upcoming Intrepid Ibex 8.10 release. As a result, the kernel team would appreciate if you could please test this newer 2.6.27 Ubuntu kernel.

{additional info regarding testing etc. . .}

The Ubuntu Kernel Team will be monitoring all responses from bug reports which have received this automated call for testing.  Please let us know your results.
</pre>
