{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page lists examples of bugs where the assignee and the bug triage team did a good job of clarifying the problem and identifying the actual bug.

If you see a nice example of good bug work, be sure to list it here.

==== Template ====
When listing sample bugs, please try to adhere to the following template:
{{{
* Bug number, Link
** brief outline, of how the bug was processed
** remarkable aspects }}}
If you need ideas on customizing a "canned" message, please refer to <nowiki>[[Bugs-CommonTasks]]</nowiki> for tasks that are common to bug processing, triaging and submitting.

==== Bug Listing ====
* 49175, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/49175|dapper install freeze at "loading kernel"]]</nowiki>
** The end-user's bug report was very superficial and didn't include the necessary information. The bug was rejected with a "canned" message due to lack of information. It also seemed to be more of a support request than a bug. I suspected that the problem was caused by a bad ISO download or an improper burn, which would fall under tech support rather than debugging. As such a combination of canned responses from <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses]]</nowiki> was used (needs info and tech support).
** The "canned" response wasn't just copy-pasted; I always modify them and try to make them more useful and applicable to the issue at hand.

* 77591, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/77591|Grettings new year]]</nowiki>
** The bug report was a feature request and not a very detailed at that. As such a standard "canned" response (slightly modified) was used.
** The "canned" response wasn't just copy-pasted; I always modify them and try to make them more useful and applicable to the issue at hand.
----
Back to '''<nowiki>[[HelpingWithBugs]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
