{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Hello everybody,

we just had our first BugSquad meeting and everybody was pleased with the results of our discussions. We had participants of teams like the Kubuntu team, the X Swat, the Desktop team, the MOTU Science team and newcomers who made the discussion diverse and produced good results.

The first item on the agenda was about improving the current situation, this involved
* the current workflow,
* how to make the best out of the weeks before relase,
* how to make it easy for newcomers to get involved.

While this sounds boring on first sight, Daniel Robitaille (who couldn't attend) made some statements to illustrate the situation [1], one of them was "we seem to be gaining ~100 open bug per week (9500 2 weeks ago, 9600 last week, 9727 tonight). We are fighting a losing battle it seems :)"

[1] http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Observations

A lot of proposals were made to remedy that.

Fabio di Nitto mentioned that it might make sense mass-close old bugs on certain dates and make it part of a "Release schedule" for the BugSquad. The "Release schedule" part of his suggestion was welcomed, but the general audience was more conservative about "mass closings". It was agreed that closing 'Needs Info' bugs which have no new input for three-four weeks can be closed with a nice response. [2]

[2] http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Responses

Baishampayan Ghose had the idea of assigning 'Ubuntu' bugs (without a package) to the BugSquad, but the idea was rejected, since it was too much traffic and would probably have the same effect. The decision was taken to figure out a way to have a mailing list, where all the first posts of bugs without a package go. We are going to improve the list on the wiki [3] where the most prominent maintainer teams are listed to ensure that this process becomes more fluent.

[3] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Teams

Fabio identified the areas of work as following: 'new incoming bugs', 'bug triaging (UNCO & unassigned)' and 'old bug junk'. We decided to have 'themed' Hug Days meaning that we concentrate on something else every two two weeks. (Watch out for the next announce for HugDay on Friday!)

Another approach was discussed, namely to add a package for each section of the Bug Squad for each work and focus on it. The DesktopTeam section of the BugSquad might want to attack evolution, while the Kubuntu guys look at the amount of kdeedu and amarok bugs. From these bugs we could write reports and make sure we rotate over different packages every time.

We considered asking for a BugSquad mailing list, which was for discussion and organisation only and would be a point to start for BugSquad newcomers and to discuss general plans of action.

At the end of the meeting everybody was charged up with energy and determined to make the next UbuntuBugDay [4] a blast.

[4] http://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay

If you want to contribute in one of the easiest ways, start here: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

Have a nice day,
 the BugSquad
</pre>

----

There's also an <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~fabbione/irclogs/ubuntu-meeting-2006-03-27.html|IRC log]]</nowiki> of the meeting.
