{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

Topics discussed at this meeting:

*** UDS BugSquad related topics -- BugSquad UDS atteendes
*** LP Improvements for triagers -- bcurtiswx

=== Minutes ===

===== UDS BugSquad related topics =====
TBD

===== LP Improvements for triagers =====

TBD

===== Open Discussion =====

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

=== Log ===
<pre>
17:00	thekorn	hi
17:00	bcurtiswx-mini	so, who runs these meetings? :P
17:00	andresmujica	last time was me!
* bcurtiswx-mini sits down then
17:01	andresmujica	so if anyone steps up, i can try it for the second time
17:01	BUGabundo	hey everyone.
* BUGabundo waves
17:01	andresmujica	o/
17:01	bdmurray	Hi
17:01	bcurtiswx-mini	\o/ whats that supposed to be
17:01	andresmujica	ok, let's start this
17:01	BUGabundo	1st time on this meeting so be gentle. thanks
17:01	andresmujica	(i supposed me waving :)
17:01	bcurtiswx-mini	i got yelled at when i wasn't here last time :P
17:01	andresmujica	#startmeeting
* charlie-tca waves
17:01	pedro_	heya
17:02	pace_t_zulu	o/
17:02	andresmujica	holly gosh, shouldn't the bot respond to startmeeting?
17:02	bcurtiswx-mini	idk, didn't for the server meeting
17:02	bcurtiswx-mini	<shrugs>
17:02	pace_t_zulu	mootbot is MIA
17:02	andresmujica	ok.
17:03	charlie-tca	it should, but maybe it is broke again
17:03	andresmujica	ok, np. So this is our second meeting, and the proposed topic is at
17:03	andresmujica	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting
17:03	andresmujica	and the last minutes from the previous meeting are at
17:03	andresmujica	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting/Minutes/2009-12-05
17:04	andresmujica	first my apologies for emailing too late the reminder to the ML.. it didn{ t make it into the the newsletter, but anyway we're here so let's start
=== jussi01 is now known as jussio1
=== jussio1 is now known as Android
17:05	andresmujica	[TOPIC] UDS BugSquad related topics -- BugSquad UDS atteendes
=== Android is now known as Tuhina
17:06	andresmujica	anyone of the attendes want to share some of the highlits from UDS related to bugsquad?
=== Tuhina is now known as jussi01
* bcurtiswx-mini pokes maco
17:07	bcurtiswx-mini	well i know maco went to UDS.. but i think shes @ work
17:08	BUGabundo	or school
17:08	BUGabundo	anyone else?
17:08	bdmurray	There were quite a few things I found interesting
17:09	bdmurray	making the greasemonkey triaging scripts into extensions and available in a PPA
17:09	bdmurray	a Bug Squad mentoring program
17:09	bdmurray	an Ubuntu Reviewers team for patches attached to bug reports
17:10	bdmurray	and some discussions about how to write apport package hooks and what packages to target
17:10	bcurtiswx-mini	to the Bug Squad mentoring program... i think we mentor each other in the bugs channel pretty well
17:10	bcurtiswx-mini	how would a mentoring program be different?
17:11	bdmurray	We talked about making it a bit more structured to make it easier for people to find a mentor and to help people are who are shy.
17:11	andresmujica	bdmurray: this is the spec right? https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/SpecialisationWithinBugcontrol
17:12	bdmurray	andresmujica: that's right
17:12	bdmurray	pedro_: anything more to add on that?
17:13	bcurtiswx-mini	i like the idea, i just ask a ton of questions :).  how can i help build the spec up.. i can come up with a few ideas
17:13	pedro_	well what bdmurray said is mostly why we started to do the mentoring program
17:13	pedro_	that's based on the experience of previous months/years
17:14	pedro_	we clearly need a more defined and structured way to start helping new triagers who want to be involved in the bugsquad
17:14	pedro_	doing triage, participating in our activities, meetings, decisions, etc
17:14	bcurtiswx-mini	agreed
17:14	bdmurray	bcurtiswx-mini: we are still drafting the spec at this point in time
17:14	pedro_	the bugsquad is not just about doing triage and that's it, people need to get involved in the team as well
17:15	bcurtiswx-mini	bdmurray: understood, i would love to help build this "program" up
17:15	andresmujica	i' ve got a doubt about bugsquad membership, it would be open for everyone or it was decided to ask for some prereq ?
17:15	bdmurray	bcurtiswx-mini: great! feel free to add any thoughts to the end of the Discussion section of the spec
17:17	pedro_	andresmujica: IIRC we agreed on having it now as a close team and the requirements for join there would be: sign the coc and read the how to triage guide
17:17	bdmurray	I think we should talk about that a wee bit more, the 1st item is easy to verify the second hard.
17:18	bcurtiswx-mini	similar to bug control... they e-mail the list answering pre-made questions about the triage guide ?
17:18	andresmujica	yeap, maybe some questions as bug-control application
17:18	pedro_	right, maybe we could ask a few easy questions related to that guide
17:19	charlie-tca	At least that would let them know the guides exist.
17:19	bdmurray	I think that would add a lot overhead and might lean the other way
17:20	bdmurray	verify coc is signed, approve and in approval notification send links to triaging documentation and mentoring program
17:20	bcurtiswx-mini	bdmurray: ok, what about a "trial" period, like bug control
17:21	bcurtiswx-mini	after 90 days ping a bug squad admin to update the membership
17:21	bdmurray	sounds good to me
17:21	andresmujica	and check bugs triaged in that period
17:22	bdmurray	I think that'd be part of the mentoring program
17:22	andresmujica	should a new member must have a mentor?
17:22	bdmurray	No, I don't think so
17:23	bcurtiswx-mini	so , by request, a mentor?
17:24	bdmurray	If I understand correctly - new members could request a mentor yes
17:24	bdmurray	But it would not be required
17:24	bcurtiswx-mini	i think it may be help to have bug squad newbies build up their wiki pages and review that upon 90 days are up
17:25	bcurtiswx-mini	put a couple triaged bugs in there?
17:26	charlie-tca	We make them do that to join bug-control, I would think to stay in bug-squad it should not be the same.
17:26	bdmurray	Reviewing the bug control applications takes a lot of time, but maybe we can make a streamlined simplified process for the Bug Squad
17:27	bdmurray	charlie-tca: I agree
17:27	andresmujica	the point is that bugsquad needs a lot of members that can do a good triage work, so with mentoring and some commitment to be members they can grow and get more involvement.
17:27	bdmurray	Anyway, we can discuss this more in the spec / on the mailing list
17:27	andresmujica	yeap.
17:27	hggdh	perhaps one way is to have mentors assigned to newbies
17:28	hggdh	b.g.o does something similar, at least with evo
17:28	andresmujica	there were some more topics at uds that worth mentioning,  kernel bug handling, Desktop Bug workflow and Symptom based bug reporting
17:29	micahg	I think mentoring helped me get acclimated faster
17:30	andresmujica	as the mentoring program is so new and it's a volunteer work, i believe we can let it move and it would reacht the point were new members can be assigned to a mentor..
17:31	andresmujica	if needed..
17:31	bdmurray	Right, I've some concern about the quantity of mentees versus mentors
17:32	bcurtiswx-mini	ask for volunteers in the two ML's ?  its going to be difficult to coordinate best times to meet too.. since were from all around the world
17:32	bcurtiswx-mini	i'd recommend assigning people from the same time zones.. or close time zones
17:33	pedro_	bcurtiswx-mini: that's the idea, yes
17:33	hggdh	the issue is mentoring is a voluntary action, right now. We, er, mentor by answering questions on IRC. Perhaps stress IRC presence?
17:34	andresmujica	ok, as the time moves, i'd propose to discuss that remaining points in the ML, and as the spec is being drafted it surely can be greatly improved.
17:34	pace_t_zulu	hggdh: +1
17:35	andresmujica	about the kernel bug handling, i believe it's important to note that a bug bankrupcy was discussed, as the high volume of kernel bugs (around 5000) is really hard to manage, and is not feasible to triage them all and solved
17:36	BUGabundo	5k?
17:36	andresmujica	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/specs/KernelKarmicBugHandling
17:36	micahg	https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux
17:36	BUGabundo	that's what the kernel team gets for prefering to have all kernel bug filed in separate
17:36	andresmujica	so the kernel team is discussing what should be the best path of action...
17:37	micahg	well, I"m sure that at least 20% are from old kernels if not more
17:37	andresmujica	yeap,
17:38	hggdh	so. What can we do about that?
17:38	micahg	I would suggest getting rid of any bug not touched before hardy was released
17:38	bcurtiswx-mini	kernel hug day?
17:39	micahg	just mark invalid
17:39	andresmujica	probably be aware of the issue and check the kernel bug policies page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/KernelTeamBugPolicies
17:39	micahg	in case someone has a real issue, they can reopend
17:39	bdmurray	I'd rather people focus on kernel bugs coming in today, tomorrow, the next day, rather than the old crufty stuff
17:39	charlie-tca	micahg: what would you do with dapper, which is still supported on servers for two years?
17:40	pedro_	bcurtiswx-mini: the team is organizing kernel hug  days almost every Tuesday since a few weeks ago: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/BugDay
17:40	micahg	charlie-tca: it doesn't even show up in the versions provided
17:40	pedro_	in fact there's one today
17:40	charlie-tca	That makes it more wrong, then
17:40	bcurtiswx-mini	pedro_: maybe have them announced on the bug squad list?
17:41	andresmujica	http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/kernel-bugday/20090609.html
17:41	bdmurray	charlie-tca: the dapper bugs are reported about linux-source-2.6.15
17:41	ogasawara	unless a dapper bug is an omg kittens are dieing or a security fix it's likely Won't Fix
17:42	charlie-tca	bdmurray: my point was you can't just invalid a bug because it is before hardy. It could be valid against dapper
17:42	ogasawara	and the kernel bug day announcement was sent to ubuntu-qa, ubuntu-bugcontrol, kernel-team, and ubuntu-bugsquad
17:42	hggdh	ogasawara, then we *could* close these as wont fix, correct?
17:42	ogasawara	hggdh: in my opinion, yes
17:43	hggdh	OK. Anyone against?
17:43	charlie-tca	thanks for clearing that, ogasawara
17:43	bdmurray	Again I think closing old bugs is less useful than triaging new bugs
17:43	andresmujica	some magic script can do it instead of us..
17:43	ogasawara	as for closing old stale kernel bugs, I've got some scripts I'm going to run to clear them out
17:43	hggdh	bdmurray, I agree, but there's still the reporter needing some sort of ACK
17:44	BUGabundo	hggdh: just one Q: how about those that remain past the old release, and are not identified as such ?
17:44	micahg	bdmurray: I agree also, but it can be mentally disheartening to see such a large number of bugs in a package and never seem to make decent headway
17:44	hggdh	BUGabundo, this is actually a question of quantity vs quality. There is only so much we can do
17:45	BUGabundo	I know
17:45	bdmurray	True but it'd be better for the release as a whole if we worked with the "live" bug reports and work on getting those fixed
17:45	hggdh	and a nicely written automagic script can tell the reporter to reopen if needed
17:46	BUGabundo	I guess the closing message could/will ask the subscribers to reopen if they persist
17:46	micahg	indeed bdmurray, I don't think anyone is disagreeing with that
17:46	hggdh	+1. I understand ogasawara will run his magic on the old bugs
17:47	micahg	btw, I just ran a search for dapper in the linux package and came up with 144 bugs
17:47	hggdh	ogasawara, sorry. *her* magic.
17:48	ogasawara	hggdh: :)
17:48	ogasawara	for those interested in helping triage, I recently updated the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeam/KernelTeamBugPolicies
17:49	micahg	OT - Just got a compliment on the apport-collect command from a user
17:49	ogasawara	note the added importance of having bugs test with the mainline kernel build as well
17:49	bcurtiswx-mini	ogasawara: is that in the "debugging proceedures" page?
17:49	ogasawara	bcurtiswx-mini: I'll have to check.  if not I'll add it.
17:49	bdmurray	The DebuggingProcedures page could use some reorganizing
17:50	bcurtiswx-mini	yeah, and additions
17:50	bdmurray	bcurtiswx-mini: additions as in links to existing pages or new pages added?
17:51	andresmujica	another interesting discussion held at UDS was the Symptom Based Bug Reporting https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DesktopTeam/Specs/Karmic/SymptomBasedBugReporting, that would be an extension to apport hooks that would try to get some common information about the issue by asking questions to the reporter... mr pitti is working on that ...
17:51	bdmurray	andresmujica: he blogged about it today or yesterday
17:52	bcurtiswx-mini	bdmurray: well, idk of all the wiki pages we have on debugging this and that.  but the list seems small from the different amount of packages we have.. so if i don't find a debugging page, i resort to finding basic triage info.. and i am afraid its not enough for devs and to mark as triaged
17:52	bdmurray	oh, that was the interactive hook
17:53	andresmujica	ohh, that's great!!    http://martinpitt.wordpress.com/2009/06/08/interrogation-with-apport-hooks-qt-developer-needed/
17:54	andresmujica	so, we've got 5 more minutes...
17:55	bcurtiswx-mini	yay for going to the 2nd discussion topic :P, to which i have no info for anyways
17:55	andresmujica	LP Improvements for triagers -- bcurtiswx
17:55	andresmujica	hehe
17:56	bcurtiswx-mini	that was more of a question, than a "i know this" thing
17:56	bdmurray	bcurtiswx-mini: well, we did have a meeting with the launchpad bugs team at UDS
17:56	andresmujica	there were some talks about it at UDS... duplicate bug handling, related bugs, what else?
17:56	bdmurray	some of the things we talked about were negated tag searching, bug nominations
17:56	bcurtiswx-mini	bdmurray: about that greasemonkey made FF extension.. sounds like a great idea
17:57	bdmurray	searching for bugs with bzr branches, displaying patches in bug listings
17:57	bcurtiswx-mini	what about running apport collect on all bugs reported against jaunty and karmic when reporters use the launchpad page to report
17:58	bcurtiswx-mini	is that possible?
17:58	hggdh	you mean forcing code on the local machine?
17:58	bdmurray	Instead we are trying to get people to just report bugs via ubuntu-bug / Report a Problem
* hggdh apriori is against
17:58	bdmurray	Additionally with the symptom based bug reporting this will make much more sense
17:58	bcurtiswx-mini	hggdh: not forcing, lol.. you'd ask first and get their permission through a form
17:58	bdmurray	er, be much more beneficial
17:59	andresmujica	ok, time is rover...
17:59	hggdh	<sigh/>
18:00	andresmujica	so, i' ll summarize to the mailing list..
18:00	bcurtiswx-mini	well, bdmurray suggested using the ML more... maybe a good idea ;-) since we've got tons to talk about still
18:00	andresmujica	yeap
18:00	andresmujica	hope it was benefical to every one!
18:00	andresmujica	thanks for the assistance
18:00	andresmujica	#endmeeting
</pre>
