{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

Topics discussed at this meeting:

** Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic -- [Need more input]
** Tasks to do for the team -- andresmujica
** New bug-stuff to look forward to -- bcurtiswx
** Policy of what to do when bugsquad members need help but don't ask -- micahg
       o They aren't using stock responses (and the replies aren't even close)
       o Changing status with no reply
       o Reply without specifying next step (i.e. what the reporter needs to do) 
** Mentoring BugSquad members -- related to bug 414627 (malone) -- micahg
** Member adoption of packages -- micahg 
** Open Discussions

=== Minutes ===

===== Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic =====

As per last UDS the Desktop Team decided to spend more time fixing bugs than triaging, so those members willing to help in that effort should try to recreate bugs, documenting test cases, and forwarding upstream, as this duties are the most valuable ones.

===== Tasks to do for the team =====

There are always several tasks that need to be done in order to make the Team grow, so it was decided to use again the <nowiki>[[BugSquad-TODO|TODO]]</nowiki> list.  In order to make the TODO list work, is really important to keep track of it periodically, and off course, update it with the tasks to do. 

So from now on, with the Meeting minutes, the link would be sent so it can be reviewed and updated by the volunteers working on the available tasks.

====== New bug-stuff to look forward to ======

Just a general question about which is the procedure for develop a package-hook, as so few people are developing package-hooks just ping bdmurray and he'll look for it.

====== Policy of what to do when bugsquad members need help but don't ask ======

** They aren't using stock responses (and the replies aren't even close)
** Changing status with no reply
** Reply without specifying next step (i.e. what the reporter needs to do)

As the number of Bug triagers increases, sometimes the willingness to help of the new members leads to a bad triaging process or ignore basical procedures.  So, if you find someone behaving incorrectly, or not following the standard procedures causing more harm than good, don't hesitate in getting in touch with him/her (lp-karma-suffix from firefox-lp-improvements packages would do the trick) and help improve him/her skills showing their errors and pointing them to the right documentation.

However one of the MOST important topics treated here was the previously discussed idea of making BugSquad a closed team, asking for a very basic requirements to join the team.  It was discussed to make a general expiration of all members of the team, so they can join again after fullfilling the requirements.  This would be addressed at the Mailing list so stay tuned and get ready. 

====== Mentoring BugSquad members -- related to bug 414627 (malone) ======

Launchpad bug 414627 in malone "allow users to select another user to follow/watch" [Undecided,Incomplete] 
https://launchpad.net/bugs/414627

Pedro has been working on a Mentorship program designed to help new BugSquad members in the triaging duties.  The bug in mention asks for a way to follow someone else at LP (as Mentor an Mentee)

So in the next weeks we would have more information about this.

====== Member adoption of packages ======

As we ran out of time it was briefly discussed the need to find which packages doesn't have bug contact in order to offer those as candidates to be adopted by a triager.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, September 8th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-.

=== Log ===
<pre>
16:40	andresmujica1	hi everyone.. 20 mins for Bugsquad meeting (it would be held at this channel)
=== grep_ is now known as grepory
17:00	hggdh	BONG BONG BONG
17:00	bdmurray	heh
* grepory dances
17:00	hggdh	(this is the bell)
17:01	pedro_	hi folks
* andresmujica1 waves
17:03	andresmujica1	:)
17:03	andresmujica1	ok, let's check what do we got
17:03	andresmujica1	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting
17:04	thekorn	hi bugsquad!
17:06	andresmujica1	there are some topics proposed and some items in the agenda...
* andresmujica1 waves thekorn
17:07	andresmujica1	Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic  (anyone knows more about this topic?  i don't recall whom proposed it)
17:07	bdmurray	Nor do I
17:07	pedro_	well.. that's something we talked about UDS with the desktop team
17:08	pedro_	they're going to spend more time doing bug fixing rather than triaging for the current cycle
17:08	pedro_	but i don't know who added that to the bugsquad meeting agenda, probably got confused by the title
17:09	hggdh	so, if I understand it right, the desktop team will need more help on triaging
17:09	pedro_	as always, yes ;-)
17:10	andresmujica1	something that concerns me is that the biggest triaging effort is mostly done by the devs themselves...   how can we help them more?
17:10	bdmurray	I think trying to recreate bugs, documenting test cases, and forwarding upstream are all a big help.
17:13	andresmujica1	ok... so ?
17:13	matti	:)
17:13	bdmurray	I think we should move to the next item since there doesn't seem to be much to discuss here
17:14	andresmujica1	ok. in the proposed topics we've got
17:14	andresmujica1	Tasks to do for the team
17:15	andresmujica1	from previous meetings we've discussed some ideas,
17:15	andresmujica1	the bug triaging classroom session for the Global Ubuntu Jam, we're looking for someone that can give the session.
17:16	andresmujica1	and the wiki page with the most important bugs per cycle
17:16	bdmurray	At one point in time we had a todo list at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/TODO
17:16	bdmurray	Perhaps we should revive that?
17:17	hggdh	sounds like a good idea
17:17	andresmujica1	yeap, definitely.
17:17	pedro_	yeap, would be good for keeping track of the tasks
17:18	pedro_	to know who is doing what
17:18	bdmurray	However, people have to actively monitor the wiki page
17:18	hggdh	which, I guess, comes smack on -control duties
17:18	bdmurray	Maybe sending monthly reminders of what's on it would be good?
17:18	andresmujica1	we can subscribe to the page
17:19	hggdh	also, but the reminders help
* hggdh had already forgotten about this page
17:19	pedro_	perhaps with the bugsquad meeting report? ;-)
17:20	andresmujica1	ok, i'm offering to update the TODO list with the tasks that have been talked within this meetings,  and yes, it can be sen with the report too
17:20	andresmujica1	sent
17:20	pedro_	person: No such object "https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~pvillavi". <- grgr love you lp
17:21	andresmujica1	ok.
17:21	andresmujica1	now:  New bug-stuff to look forward to -- bcurtiswx
17:21	andresmujica1	not here...
17:21	andresmujica1	i was wondering about package-hooks , where can i find a list of the ones that are being worked on ??
17:22	bdmurray	andresmujica1: what do you mean by being worked on?
17:22	andresmujica1	there's a TAG or someting at LP ?
17:22	bdmurray	The only one I know of being worked on is evolution atm
17:22	andresmujica1	i mean, i want to make an apport-hook but if someone already is working on it it would be better to find a different one..
17:23	bdmurray	I don't think that many people are working on them, so I'd just have at it
17:23	andresmujica1	ok. the standard procedure is to make the bug report and ping piti, right?
17:24	bdmurray	ping me actually
17:24	andresmujica1	ok
17:25	bdmurray	I'll chase getting them incorporated / uploaded
17:26	pedro_	that reminds me that i need to open some bug reports about the ones i wrote during the sprint
17:26	bdmurray	pedro_: yes, that'd be great!
17:27	andresmujica1	Policy of what to do when bugsquad members need help but don't ask -- micahg
=== erhesrhsrtb54vyh is now known as Elbrus
17:28	hggdh	and -- more importantly -- do not follow the rules
17:29	pedro_	send them an email explaining why what they did is wrong? include a link to our documentation and offering help if they have a question?
17:29	bdmurray	One issue here might be that the Bug Squad is an open team so there is no commitment to follow the rules
17:29	andresmujica1	They aren't using stock responses (and the replies aren't even close)
17:29	andresmujica1	Changing status with no reply
17:29	andresmujica1	Reply without specifying next step (i.e. what the reporter needs to do)
17:29	pedro_	i tend to do that most of the times
17:30	hggdh	heh
17:30	pedro_	" Changing status with no reply" < - i hate this
17:30	bdmurray	I try to do what pedro recommends
17:30	pedro_	everytime you do that, a kitten die
17:31	hggdh	OMG, we are running out of kittens!
17:31	bdmurray	That's what I added the contact user hyperlink into lp_karma_suffix
17:31	bdmurray	The idea being you'd see something inappropriate and contact them directly
17:31	bdmurray	However, I think it is important to verify that the person is in fact a member of bug squad
17:32	hggdh	so. I suggest -control starts contacting -- in a nice way -- the -squad member that are doing that, as we find them
17:32	hggdh	s/member/&s/
17:32	andresmujica1	what happened with the discussion about making bug squad a closed team, with some minimal requirements to join?
17:33	bdmurray	That needs to be discussed on the mailing list, particularly what to do with existing members
17:33	bdmurray	Do we just wipe out the team and start over or ...?
17:34	hggdh	best would be to keep on with the existing members, and add an expiry
17:34	hggdh	and request an acceptance of the (new) rules
17:34	andresmujica1	if you don't touch a bug for 3 months set a 30 days expiration ..
17:34	pedro_	andresmujica1, that'd be tricky to do
17:35	bdmurray	Adding an expiration for all members would be easy though
17:35	hggdh	of course, this will also add on overhead for the bug-meisters
17:35	hggdh	since only them (looking at Brian, directly) can do it
17:35	bdmurray	hggdh: for managing the team?  I've written some launchpadlib scripts for managing teams so its not so bad
17:36	bdmurray	Way better than it used to be!
* hggdh retracts the observation ;-)
17:36	pedro_	There are 2046 direct members of the "Ubuntu BugSquad" team <- wow
17:36	andresmujica1	how many bugsquad members are actively triaging ?  is it possible to now?
17:37	bdmurray	andresmujica1: yes, but its somewhat hard
17:37	hggdh	So. We intend to make -squad closed; -sqaud member should follow the rules, including subscribing to the ML
17:38	andresmujica1	i would agree with that.  Even with a general expiration after some ML messages explaining why...
17:38	bdmurray	and what it means to be a member of the bugsquad
17:39	hggdh	+1
17:39	pedro_	I'm agreed with that
17:40	hggdh	any other vote? Otherwise we are agreed, and move on
17:41	andresmujica1	ok
17:41	andresmujica1	so
17:41	andresmujica1	Mentoring BugSquad members -- related to bug 414627 (malone) -- micahg
17:41	ubot4	Launchpad bug 414627 in malone "allow users to select another user to follow/watch" [Undecided,Incomplete] https://launchpad.net/bugs/414627
17:41	micahg	so, I was thinking to make mentoring a more official feature of bug control
17:41	hggdh	this is something MIcah and I discussed: would help a lot on following new -squads, or proposed -controls
17:41	pedro_	I'd *love* to have that on launchpad, it helps quite a lot on Gnome Bugzilla
17:42	micahg	yeah, that feature would be nice
17:42	pedro_	and would be perfect for the mentoring program we're trying to build
17:42	hggdh	pedro_, exactly the same point I raised with Micah
17:42	micahg	but I realized that it's possible to a point right now
17:42	micahg	if you're subscribed to the package in questions, you can filter by commentor
17:42	bdmurray	It's not big brother-ish?
17:42	micahg	bdmurray: maybe it should be limited to admins
17:42	hggdh	bdmurray, it may deteriorate to BB, without control
17:42	micahg	and no, there's nothing private about non-private bugs are there?
17:43	bdmurray	It implies that I don't trust you and need to watch your every move
17:43	hggdh	it does. This is the point
17:43	micahg	bdmurray: well, not trust is different than training I woudl think
17:44	micahg	why is this different than a seasonsed person standing over another while training?
17:44	andresmujica1	hmm, i'd see it the other way around.. i want to follow the example from someone else...so i watch how he's doing it
17:44	micahg	and the person should know that you're watching I would think
17:44	hggdh	we need to verify. Andre did that with me, for example, when I started in Gnome. I see no problems, since all bugs are viewwable by anyone
17:44	micahg	andresmujica1: I think both ar egoof
17:44	micahg	*good
17:45	hggdh	it is similar to anyone proposing to MOTU, for example (but without the help of 'following'
17:46	micahg	anyway, you can kind of do it now if you subscribe to all bug mail and filter by commenter
17:46	hggdh	and accept thousands of email per day, of course
17:46	micahg	but this would make it so that you can do it more easily
17:47	hggdh	question is: what incentives are there to become a bugsquad?
17:48	hggdh	(since I can comment on any bug, anyway)
17:48	micahg	only to say that they're dedicating themselves to helping
17:48	bdmurray	hugs?
17:48	micahg	but I see where you're going hggdh
17:49	hggdh	perhaps as a pre-req to become a -control?
17:49	micahg	bugsquad should get more help from -control
17:49	micahg	that's how I learned
17:50	hggdh	yes, and this is the mentoring we are trying to start
17:50	micahg	and it encouraged me to keep going
17:51	andresmujica1	ok, we've got a few minutes, so let's wrap up ...
17:51	micahg	maybe we should resurrect the wiki page for mentoring
17:51	hggdh	and start the official mentoring soon
* hggdh pokes pedro_ ;-)
17:52	pedro_	hggdh, just waiting for the response from charlie-tca, if he doesn't answer at the end of this week we might look for someone else to fit there
17:52	pedro_	we cannot wait forever
17:53	pedro_	micahg, there's a plan for starting a more structured mentoring program: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/SpecialisationWithinBugcontrol
* micahg is looking
17:54	pedro_	would be really good if everybody could look at the spec and add comments about it
17:54	micahg	on the comment page
17:54	micahg	?
17:54	micahg	I don't see a comment page
17:54	pedro_	micahg, feel free to add those at the bottom
17:54	hggdh	just add a Comment header, and we will go from there
17:55	micahg	+1 on the idea
* micahg is already specialized :)
17:56	andresmujica1	ok, let's go to Open Discussion  and let the adopting package topic for the next meeting
17:56	micahg	would comments per category be better?
17:56	bdmurray	wrt to adopting packges I have a question
17:57	bdmurray	Would it be interesting to know what packages nobody is subscribed to?
17:57	pedro_	a big yes ;-)
17:57	micahg	bdmurray: my guess would be most
17:57	micahg	unless people are subscribed to -bugs
17:58	micahg	or maybe not...
17:58	andresmujica1	hmm.. sure.  even get in touch with main developer and help him subscribe to its package...
17:58	hggdh	micahg, I think commenting at the bottom is better -- all comments together
17:58	micahg	ok
17:58	bdmurray	micahg: but if you knew netcat had nobody subscribed to its bug reports and it only has <5 open bugs might that help you choose a package to adopt?
17:59	micahg	yeah, that's a good point
17:59	micahg	maybe both stats together would be good
17:59	bdmurray	and that it is synced with debian so valid bugs should be forwarded upstream ...
17:59	hggdh	I think it would -- I would not be afraid of being overwhelmed, and this plays a role
18:00	micahg	the question is how do we cover 20k pkgs with 125 people?
18:00	hggdh	we do not. There is only so much we can do. But we *can* start
18:00	bdmurray	exactly
18:00	micahg	ok, makes sense
18:01	hggdh	and it will be better than *not* doing anything
18:01	micahg	my plan has always been adopt a package, get the bugs under control, then adopt another
* micahg is still working on the first bunch :)
18:01	hggdh	its a good plan :-)
18:02	hggdh	well, you started with FFox, what did you expect LOL
18:02	micahg	when I started, there were only 1600 FF bugs, now there are 2k :(
18:03	hggdh	one thing we might try is to have more than one for large (in terms of bugs) packages
18:03	hggdh	if we can get it for these large packages, it is already a victory
18:03	micahg	well, that's where mentorhelp
18:03	hggdh	yes
18:04	micahg	you get 2-3 people training on bugs in a large package
18:05	hggdh	So. Comments are needed on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/SpecialisationWithinBugcontrol
18:05	hggdh	the sooner, methinks, the better
* micahg will comment tonight
18:05	hggdh	andresmujica1, back to you ;-)
18:06	andresmujica1	ok, about the upcoming Developer week, anything we can help on?
18:08	hggdh	bdmurray, pedro_ ?
18:08	bdmurray	I'm all set thanks for asking
18:10	pedro_	well, just help on welcoming the new people (if there's any) after the talk here at the channel
18:10	hggdh	ROLF
18:11	andresmujica1	ok, anything else we should discuss after closing ?
18:12	bdmurray	andresmujica1: you'll send out minutes correct?
18:12	andresmujica1	yeap
18:12	andresmujica1	starting right now.
18:12	bdmurray	and the next meeting will be on 8 September?
18:13	andresmujica1	if everyone agrees, it would be Sept 8th
18:13	micahg	+1
18:13	andresmujica1	same hour same channel?
18:13	pedro_	sure
18:13	bdmurray	that sounds good to me
18:14	andresmujica1	ok, thanks everyone :)
18:14	pedro_	thanks!
18:15	bdmurray	thanks!
18:15	hggdh	thank you, andresmujica1
18:15	micahg	thanks andresmujica1
</pre>
