{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Upstream Bug Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+upstreamreport|The Upstream Report]]</nowiki> - Bug linkage percentages for the top 50 projects in Ubuntu, sorted by open bugs. Please note that this report is still in Beta. <nowiki>[[UpstreamReport|Instructions]]</nowiki> for using the report.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.status_upstream=pending_bugwatch&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1|Bugs that need forwarding]]</nowiki> to the Upstream bugtrackers.
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/launchpad-database/unlinked-bugwatch.html|Unlinked upstream bugs]]</nowiki> - Sometimes people add a link to an upstream bug tracker in the comments of a bug but don't bother creating an upstream task. This is a list of possible targets that can be linked. (Lots of low hanging fruit in this list, but also a bunch of dupes and ones inappropriate to be linked.)
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Watches|How to set a bug watch]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://distributions.freedesktop.org/wiki/Packaging/WhyUpstream|Why Upstream?]]</nowiki> - Thoughts from freedesktop.org on why sending things upstream is a good idea.
* There are also some cases where you don't need to file a bug upstream, for those cases please have a look at <nowiki>[[WhenNotToForward|When not to Forward a bug upstream]]</nowiki>

=== Upstream bug trackers ===

Instructions for how to file bugs in specific upstream bug trackers. (Feel free to add more!)

* <nowiki>[[GNOME]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[KDE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Xfce]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LXDE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Mozilla]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[kernel]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[Freedesktop]]</nowiki> (includes LibreOffice, X, and others)
* <nowiki>[[Debian]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[OpenSSH]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[AbiWord]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Listen]]</nowiki>
