{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hello, I'm DanielHolbach, taking care of bugs of a lot of different teams:
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~desktop-bugs/+packagebugs|Desktop Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~accessibility/+packagebugs|Accessibility Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~telepathy/+packagebugs|Telepathy Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~bluetooth/+packagebugs|Bluetooth Bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~motu/+bugs|MOTU Bugs]]</nowiki>
* ...

== Unconfirmed/Undecided new bugs ==

I started off my day looking at <nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.com/2ovzpw|the raw incoming Unconfirmed/Undecided bugs]]</nowiki> sorted by 'newest first'.
These bugs usually were not touched by anybody else before and you'll find a lot of easy tasks to get done there.

=== Crasher bugs ===

With the advent of <nowiki>[[Apport]]</nowiki> we get more and more crash reports. It's our task to make sure 
* we identify duplicates,
* the backtraces are complete,
* we forward them upstream.

Most of these bugs have `[apport]` or `crash` in the title, so are easy to identify.

==== Initial triage (*) ====

Looking at the list of today, I stumbled across <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimmie/+bug/94360|bug 94360]]</nowiki>. 
# To make sure that nobody else goes through the initial triage steps of `Unconfirmed`/`Undecided` bugs, I marked its `Importance` as `Medium`. (For that you have to be in the <nowiki>[[UbuntuQA]]</nowiki> team.) The bug is still unconfirmed and we will mark it as `Confirmed` once the backtrace is complete.
# The crash report says `Architecture: i386`, so I tag it as `need-i386-retrace` and the automatic retracer will pick it up.
# Now I moved on to the next bug, as it will take a while until the retracer gives us a complete debug backtrace.

Another bug I looked at was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evolution/+bug/94379|bug 94379]]</nowiki>. 
* It was similar to the bug above, only this time, I assigned the bug to the `desktop-bugs` team in the same step. 
* Also, I thanked the reporter for the bug report.

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multitail/+bug/94376|bug 94376]]</nowiki> was roughly the same, its attachment told me that it's a `i386` machine too. Additionally I assigned it to `MOTU`, so the bug shows up on the `universe-bugs@` list. How I found out that it's a bugs for MOTUs? Easy:
<pre>
daniel@bert:~$ apt-cache show multitail | grep File
Filename: pool/universe/m/multitail/multitail_4.2.0-1_amd64.deb
daniel@bert:~$ 
</pre>

Additional information:
* For a comprehensive list of commonly used tags, take a look at <nowiki>[[BugSquad/Tags]]</nowiki>.
* For a list of teams and their bug workflow, see <nowiki>[[Bugs/Teams]]</nowiki>.

==== Using bughelper to find duplicates (*) ====

I also stumbled across <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-applets/+bug/94300|bug 94300]]</nowiki>. Looking at the `Traceback` I somehow remembered the bug from earlier and decided to use <nowiki>[[BugHelper]]</nowiki> to figure out what's going wrong.

<pre>
 Traceback (most recent call last):
   File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/invest/widgets.py", line 161, in on_quotes_update
     day_var = (now_total - start_total) / start_total * 100
 ZeroDivisionError: integer division or modulo by zero
</pre>

Deciding that `ZeroDivisionError` is a search term that's easy to distinguish, I started this <nowiki>[[BugHelper]]</nowiki> query:

<pre>
bughelper -T gnome-applets ZeroDivisionError ZeroDivisionError -A -U -p gnome-applets
</pre>

<pre>
-T <package name> <search term> <display this string, when something's found>
                       means: only search for this search term in bug reports for this package
-U                     means: not only consider bugs in http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/<package>/+bugs
                              but also in http://launchpad.net/<package>/+bugs
                              this might give you duplicates in the output, but you'll check upstream bugs too
-A                     means: check attachments too - this means downloading lots of stuff, but it will get 
                              cached in ~/.bughelper/attachments-cache
-p <package>           means: search for this package only.
</pre>

After a while (I looked at other bugs in the mean time), `bughelper` gave me this output:

<pre>
http://launchpad.net/bugs/80407 [gnome-applets upstream: Confirmed/Unknown][gnome-applets Ubuntu: Confirmed/Medium] - ZeroDivisionError
  - http://librarian.launchpad.net/6455220/_usr_lib_gnome-applets_invest-applet.1000.crash
  - http://librarian.launchpad.net/5780843/_usr_lib_gnome-applets_invest-applet.1000.crash
</pre>

Bingo! Bug 94300 really was indeed a duplicate of bug 80407. Thus I marked it as duplicate, and used a nice stock reply from <nowiki>[[Bugs/Responses]]</nowiki>.

==== Adding the bughelper clue to the 'database' ====

To help other BugSquad members to find this bug more easily, I used the following command to create a `gnome-applets` `clue file`:
<pre>
bugxml -a gnome-applets ZeroDivisionError "This is a dup of bug 80407" -d 80407
</pre>

For more documentation on it, take a look at: <nowiki>[[BugHelper/doc/writing-clue-files]]</nowiki>.

----
Go back to '''<nowiki>[[BugSquad/Diaries]]</nowiki>'''.<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad]]</nowiki>
