{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


/!\ This programme has been terminated as of October 2011.

=== BugSquad Mentorship Program ===

The Bug Squad's mentorship program has been created for people that would like to get involved in bug triaging, but don't know how to. If you apply for mentorship, a mentor will be assigned to you to guide your first steps in the wonderful world of working with bugs.

==== What is 'triaging'? ====

In a hospital, triage happens the instant a patient arrives: his or her vital signs are checked, his or her status assessed, and (s)he gets sorted in amongst all the other patients waiting for treatment.

Bug triage is a lot like that as we assess bugs to determine whether or not they have enough information to be worked on, and assign a priority to them as soon as possible. Though without any risk of a death, fortunately.

The process itself is thoroughly explained at <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki>. Make sure you read that wiki page well before starting to work on bugs!

=== How To Request a Mentor ===

If you're new to the BugSquad and want to request a mentor you need to:

# Sign the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>. ('''Requirement''')
# Set up your Ubuntu Wiki-page, and add the following information to it:
** A brief introduction of yourself;
** Your area of interest (e.g.: audio, kernel, desktop, networking, etc), or none if you're still unsure
** Your availability time '''''in UTC''''' .  [also mention your timezone]
# Add your IRC-nickname, your Ubuntu Wiki-page and your timezone to your Launchpad profile. 
# As a recommendation you might want to read the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage|HowToTriage]]</nowiki>, your mentor will help you if you have any doubts regarding the processes there.
# Finally, request membership on the <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~bugsquad-mentorship|bugsquad-mentorship ]]</nowiki> group on Launchpad
 
The mentorship admins will review your request and assign you to a suitable mentor, who will contact you shortly after the assignment.

''Note: After applying to the team, if you are not assigned a mentor within a week, its because there are no mentors currently available in your preferred time slot. So kindly wait until a mentor in your time slot is free.''' The team membership will be approved only when a student can be assigned a mentor.''' In the mean time, you can ask questions anytime on irc.freenode.net <code>#ubuntu-bugs</code> irc channel. ''

''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors/Students|List of students waiting for a mentor]]</nowiki>''

=== How To Become a Mentor ===

All members of the <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugControl|Ubuntu Bug Control]]</nowiki> team can be mentors; the only requirement is that they need to know how the community operates and be familiar with the resources. That is more important than being very experienced in the area your students are going to work.

The responsibilities of the mentors are
* Guide the student through <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage|the triaging how-to]]</nowiki> in order to clarify the process;
* Introduce the student to the general triage <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage-Charts|work-flow]]</nowiki> and the life-cycle of a bug;
* Encourage the student to join the official channels of communication:
** The <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> mailing list;
** The <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>-channel: <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.ubuntu.com:8001-ubuntu-bugs|#ubuntu-bugs]]</nowiki>;
* Be present themselves in the <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.ubuntu.com:8001-ubuntu-bugs|#ubuntu-bugs]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[IRC]]</nowiki>-channel;
* Make the student familiar with the Bug Squad's activities: 
** The <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay|Ubuntu Bug Days]]</nowiki>;
** The <nowiki>[[BugSquad-Meeting|Ubuntu Bug Squad meetings]]</nowiki>;
** The <nowiki>[[UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[UbuntuDeveloperWeek]]</nowiki>;
** The <nowiki>[[QATeam-Meetings|QA Team meetings]]</nowiki>;
* Encourage specialisation, e.g. via <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage|Adopt-a-Package]]</nowiki>;
* Encourage students to help with <nowiki>[[Testing]]</nowiki>;
* Send Monthly updates on the students' progress to the '''''' or be present once a month at the weekly <nowiki>[[BugSquad-Meeting|Ubuntu Bug Squad meetings]]</nowiki>, Please use the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors/ReportingTemplate|Reporting Template]]</nowiki> when sending the email.

If you want to become a mentor, please send an email to '''''' with the subject: '''I Want to Become a Mentor - <<Your Name>>''' and include:

* Your expertise, e.g. desktop, kernel, X.org, Mozilla, KDE, GNOME;
* Your Launchpad username;
* The times you're available, in UTC.

==== Student assignment ====

The admins of the mentorship program will answer you shortly and &mdash; if you're accepted &mdash; add you to the list of available mentors '''and''' to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad-mentorship|bugsquad-mentorship]]</nowiki> team on Launchpad.

When you've been accepted as a mentor the admins will assign a student to you. You'll be warned and asked to make the first contact with your new student. You could use the stock mail at <nowiki>[[BugSquad-Mentors-Stock]]</nowiki> for this, that way you are sure you provide the necessary information.

It's up to you how you mentor the students, but generally the goal is to make the students ready for <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugControl|Ubuntu Bug Control]]</nowiki> membership.

''Also , see: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Mentors/Students|List of students waiting for a mentor]]</nowiki>''

=== Current mentors ===

This is the list of the current Bug Squad mentors and their students. This table is looked after by the mentorship admins, but if you see any error in the information listed here, feel free to correct it. However, please do not add new mentors to this list on your own initiative.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">'''Times Available'''
| '''Mentor'''
| '''IRC Nickname'''
| '''Packages - Area of Speciality'''
| '''Students'''
|-
| 03:00 - 06:00 UTC ''(9PM - 12AM CT)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ddecator|Draycen DeCator]]</nowiki>
| ddecator
| Firefox
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~RedSingularity|Tim (RedSingularity)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 03:00 - 06:00 UTC ''(9PM - 12AM CT)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mstngdrew212|Drew Cross]]</nowiki>
| drew212
| Firefox
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stlsaint|stlsaint (stlsaint)]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rajatkhanduja13|Rajat Khanduja (rajatkhanduja)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 07:00 - 16:00 UTC ''(0900 - 1800 CET)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jibel|Jean-Baptiste Lallement]]</nowiki>
| jibel
| Regression bugs and <nowiki>[[QATeam-PerformingSRUVerification|Stable Release Update testing]]</nowiki>, Upgrade and installation issues (apt, dpkg, update-manager,...)
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gnodtke|Alexander Gnodtke (algnod)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 09:00 - 21:00 UTC
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~thekorn|Markus Korn]]</nowiki>
| thekorn
| Desktop Bugs/GNOME
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sulumar|Sulumar (Sulumar)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 15:00 - 17:00 UTC
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~om26er|Omer Akram]]</nowiki>
| om26er
| gwibber, empathy, GNOME
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~abhi-navale|Abhijit Navale (abhi_nav)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 11:00 - 20:00 UTC
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pvillavi|Pedro Villavicencio]]</nowiki>
| pedro_
| Desktop Bugs/GNOME
| 
|-
| 12:00 - 21:00 UTC ''(8AM-5PM ET) evenings and weekends as I am online''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~txwikinger|Ralph Janke]]</nowiki>
| txwikinger
| KDE
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ian-porter|genux (genux)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 13:00 - 05:00 UTC, ''but varies wildly''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mrand|Marc Randolph]]</nowiki>
| mrand
| Mythbuntu/MythTV, lirc
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~drkenobi|Dr. Kenobi (DrKenobi)]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chilicuil|chilicuil (chilicuil)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 13:00 - 22:00 UTC
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kamus|Victor Vargas]]</nowiki>
| kamusin
| Gwibber, Rhythmbox, Gnome
| 
|-
| 13:00 - 23:00 UTC ''(0900 - 1900 EST)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jeremyfoshee|Jeremy Foshee]]</nowiki>
| JFo
| Kernel Bugs
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chaz-n|chazn85]]</nowiki>
|-
| 13:00 - 00:00 UTC
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hggdh2|C de-Avillez]]</nowiki>
| hggdh
| Evolution, coreutils, generic help
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kangarooo|Kangarooo (Kangarooo)]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ojap|ojap (ojap)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 14:30 - 18:30 UTC
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nigelbabu|NigelBabu]]</nowiki>
| nigelb
| GNOME, apport hook writing
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~flipefr|flipefr]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~santhoshinbang|Santhosh (Gigacore)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 15:00 - 19.00 UTC ''(17:00-21:00 CET/CEST)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
| sense
| desktop
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~KE1HA|KE1HA]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~rohitr|rohit (drcooper)]]</nowiki>
|-
| UTC 15:30 - 1800 and this limit extends generally on weekends
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~simar|Gursimran singh Mohar]]</nowiki>
| simar
| Touchpad bugs
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ashams|Ahmed Shams (ashams)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~roopesh-majeti|Roopesh (stanley_robertso)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 16:00 - 23:00 UTC ''(9am-4pm PDT), frequently 04:00-07:00 UTC''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sbeattie|Steve Beattie]]</nowiki>
| sbeattie
| Regression bugs and SRU testing, apport hooks
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~valio|Valentin Tunev]]</nowiki>
|-
| 17:00-18:00 UTC and 21:00-22:00 UTC, ''may vary''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ilidrissi.amine|Mohamed Amine IL Idrissi]]</nowiki>
| ilidrissi.amine
| Desktop applications
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~samwho|Sam (samwho)]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~tobias-schwan|cotillion (cotillion-bn)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 18:00 - 03:00 UTC ''(3PM to 11PM ET)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bcurtiswx|Brian Curtis]]</nowiki>
| bcurtiswx
| empathy, telepathy*
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~david-lygagnon|David Ly-Gagnon (davely)]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gordon-dey|Gordon (cagordon)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 23:00 - 08:00 UTC ''(but will vary)''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kermiac|Mitch Towner]]</nowiki>
| kermiac
| Ubuntu One, Gnome Desktop Apps, SRU Testing
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~george-patterson|George Patterson (gorilla)]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~andres.mujica|Andrés Mujica]]</nowiki>
| andresmujica
| Kernel Bugs, xserver-xorg-video-intel, cheese
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[azimout|Dimitrios Symeonidis]]</nowiki>
| azimout
| evince
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[DanielTChen|Daniel T Chen]]</nowiki>
| dtchen
| audio (kernelspace & userspace)
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[JonathanJesse|Jonathan Jesse]]</nowiki>
| jjesse
| Documentation, Kubuntu Docs, Ubuntu Docs
| 
|-
| currently unavailable
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gomyhr|Geir Ove Myhr]]</nowiki>
| gomyhr
| xserver-xorg-video-intel
| 
|-
| ''currently unavailable''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~greg.grossmeier|Greg Grossmeier]]</nowiki>
| greg-g
| Gwibber, Tomboy, Tasque, GNOME
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~martin-truffulatree|Martin Pokorny (flyin)]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~patrick.wiltrout|Patrick Wiltrout (Vork)]]</nowiki>
|-
| ''currently unavailable''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maco.m|Maco Morgan]]</nowiki>
| maco
| sound
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki>
| bdmurray
| writing apport-hooks, update-manager, whatever
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~chrisccoulson|Chris Coulson]]</nowiki>
| chrisccoulson
| Desktop Bugs/GNOME + tracker
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~micahg|Micah Gersten]]</nowiki>
| micahg
| Mozilla Apps (Firefox, Thunderbird, Seamonkey...)
| 
|-
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~charlie-tca|Charlie Kravetz]]</nowiki>
| charlie-tca
| xfce, gnumeric
| 
|}
