{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Agenda ===

Topics discussed at this meeting:

* LoCo Bug Jams -- bcurtiswx
* BugSquad new members orientation -- tlcoffee
* Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic -- Andrew Starr
* Open Discussions

=== Minutes ===

===== LoCo Bug Jams =====

In preparation for the upcoming Ubuntu Global Jam, it was discussed the need to schedule at least one classroom session to train LOco team members in the bug triaging effort during the Jam.

The session probably would be held mid september just before the Jam, a volunteer is needed to give the training.

===== BugSquad new members orientation =====

At a previous meeting, the mentoring program for Bugsquad was discussed. The purpose of it, is to give new members orientation about how to proceed, and help people specialize in specific areas. At this point the details of the program are being worked by Pedro.

Some points were made for newcomers:

- Ask at #ubuntu-bug channel whatever doubts you may have.
- If you want to, don't hesitate asking in private.
- Also, remember to use the mailing list ubuntu-bugsquad@lists.ubuntu.com .

===== Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic =====

This topic was postponed.  It would help a more detailed description of the topic.

===== Open Discussion =====

====== Increasing Apport coverage ======

According to this mail https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2009-July/001505.html there's a real need to increase the apport coverage, Bdmurray compiled a list in that email with packages that would need an apport hook, according to the volume of bugs reported against them.

If you which to contribute:

 - Check the email
 - Check the Debugging procedures at the wiki
 - Check at upstream bugtrackers for the most common information asked by the developers
 - Look into /usr/share/bug/ for information to include about a specific package
 - Look the other hooks written at /usr/share/apport/package-hooks

Take into account that the hook will have to be officially proposed, and will go through a review by the maintainers.

====== eeebotu announcing bugs ======

It was discussed the addressing of Invalid and Triaged Bugs at the -announce channel. hgghd and mrooney are going to enhance eeebotu and if possible create an additional -announce channel for Confirmed, Triaged, High and Critical bugs statuses.

====== Launchpad LP improvements PPA ======

A firefox extension is being tested so the GM scripts can be easily updated

https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-qa/2009-June/000488.html

expect more info about it soon.

===== Agree on next meeting date and time =====

Next meeting will be on Tuesday, August 11th at 16:00 UTC in #ubuntu-meeting.

=== Log ===
<pre>
17:00	bdmurray	hello
* charlie-tca__ waves
17:01	andresmujica	hi charlie, bdmurray!
17:02	andresmujica	i had to travel and couldn't prepare the proper minutes for last meeting, however i've just pasted the log at the wiki
17:02	andresmujica	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting/Minutes/2009-06-09
17:05	bdmurray	thanks for doing that!
17:05	andresmujica	the main topics discussed last time were UDS related topics ( process for new bugsquad members, mentorship, kernel bug handling, ubuntu-bug usage, symptom bug based reporting) and the LP improvements
17:05	mrooney	good morning bugsquad :)
* andresmujica waves mrooney
17:07	hggdh	so, did we start already?
17:07	andresmujica	just waiting for quorum:
17:08	andresmujica	let's start then
17:08	andresmujica	#startmeeting
17:08	MootBot	Meeting started at 11:08. The chair is andresmujica.
17:08	MootBot	Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
17:08	andresmujica	we stil have some topics here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meeting
17:09	andresmujica	[TOPIC] LoCo Bug Jams -- bcurtiswx
17:09	MootBot	New Topic:  LoCo Bug Jams -- bcurtiswx
17:10	hggdh	hum. bcurtiswx is MIA...
17:10	andresmujica	there's the Ubuntu Global Jam now.. so i'm supposing we would particpate there...
17:11	hggdh	yes indeed.
17:11	hggdh	For those of us living in a LoCo area, we should try to be present
17:11	andresmujica	should we make some previous irc classrooms for that??
17:12	hggdh	bdmurray, ^^?
=== thekorn_ is now known as thekorn
17:12	bdmurray	I'm not sure I understand the question
17:13	hggdh	I guess is should we try to schedule a classroom for triaging before the GBJ?
17:13	andresmujica	i mean, maybe we can give a classroom session of bug triaging in order to help newcomers with the event..
17:13	bdmurray	Yes, that sounds like a great idea
17:14	andresmujica	anyone wants to volunteer?
17:15	hggdh	I can help, but I am not sure I will have the time to do it alone
17:15	hggdh	(not right now)
17:15	andresmujica	hmm how much time is left before the UGJ?
17:16	charlie-tca__	I can't really do it at this time
17:16	andresmujica	hmm 2th -4th October...
17:17	andresmujica	we've got some time.. so we can wait.. maybe in August / September we can do something about it... don't you think?
17:17	hggdh	October... so we could try to get it done in September (to be near, and get the new triagers still fresh on memory)
17:17	hggdh	heh
17:18	andresmujica	yeap!
17:18	andresmujica	ok..
17:18	andresmujica	i'll try to make one in spanish..
17:18	andresmujica	ok. so let's check the other topic.
17:19	andresmujica	[TOPIC] BugSquad new members orientation -- tlcoffee
17:19	MootBot	New Topic:  BugSquad new members orientation -- tlcoffee
17:20	hggdh	another one MIA...
17:20	andresmujica	i don't think tlcoffe is around here.. however this is like the mentorship program for new bugsquad members..
17:20	hggdh	I have been doing something like that, in an un-official way, for quite some time
17:21	hggdh	I think some new triagers get, er, shy on asking questions in the open, and would rather use PVT
17:21	andresmujica	:)
17:22	hggdh	My view is we should try, whenever possible, to have the doubts answered in the open, but we should make clear we do accept PVT questions
17:22	mrooney	is this related at all to bugcontrol specialization, where a new bugsquad member might be interested in something specific and we want to hook them up with the right mentor?
17:23	hggdh	mrooney, it may well be.
17:23	bdmurray	pedro is looking at setting up a mentoring program
17:23	bdmurray	I believe that the two are related yes
17:24	hggdh	hum. Since pedro is out right now, I propose we ask him for an update later
17:24	andresmujica	ok we'll wait for news about it.. i believe is really important
17:25	hggdh	I agree. I remember, when I started, I was stepping on eggs
17:25	andresmujica	ok.
17:26	mrooney	sorry, gdm likes to randomly restart in karmic :)
17:26	andresmujica	the next topic we've got is
17:26	andresmujica	[TOPIC] Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic -- Andrew Starr
17:26	MootBot	New Topic:  Triaging versus Bug Fixing/Closing in Karmic -- Andrew Starr
17:26	hggdh	and I had a real bad experience with a developer
17:26	andresmujica	mrooney: yeapp. iÂ´m trying to debug that but is hard..
17:27	andresmujica	hggdh: sorry.. .. go on..
17:27	hggdh	Well. Andrew is also missing. May I propose that we ask not only for a topic, but also for a short explanation on what is intended?
17:28	bdmurray	that sounds fair to me
17:28	andresmujica	yeap.. that one i don't have a clue.. it can as long as we want to...
17:28	andresmujica	it can be.. sorry
17:28	hggdh	OK. Let's just pass it on, and update the wiki. I have no clue on what Andrew intended here
17:29	andresmujica	[TOPIC] Open Discussions
17:29	MootBot	New Topic:  Open Discussions
17:29	hggdh	I have one
17:29	hggdh	bdmurray, sent out an email (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-bugsquad/2009-July/001505.html) asking for help on apport hools
17:29	hggdh	hooks
17:29	hggdh	This is something that most of us would be able to do
17:30	hggdh	I would really like to see more apport hook coverage. I have started with an Evolution one, currently under review
17:31	hggdh	I also wrote some small hacks to work on existing apport bugs, with help from a list Brian provided me
17:31	hggdh	Anyone volunteers?
* mrooney looks
17:32	mrooney	I could try to help with a few, is the idea to talk to a dev and figure out what information is valuable?
17:32	mrooney	what is the process for figuring out what to include
17:32	bdmurray	or looking at upstream bugtrackers, existing bug reports
17:32	bdmurray	for the compiz one I wrote I looked at the DebuggingCompiz page
17:32	mrooney	I see, ok, makes sense
17:33	hggdh	for the record, the hacks and the proposed Evo hook is at bug 391623
17:33	ubottu	Launchpad bug 391623 in evolution "apport hook for Evolution" [Wishlist,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/391623
17:33	bdmurray	I think sbeattie did the same thing for gnome-power-manager and a script included with that  package
17:33	mrooney	okay cool, I'll  set a goal for 1 a week
17:34	hggdh	one thing Brian and I were working on is on sanitising backtraces, but this depends on an enhancement on apport. This should be considered when applicable
17:35	sbeattie	mrooney: I looked at the debugging page for gnome-power-manager as well as the debian bug reporting script in /usr/share/bug/gnome-power-manager/script
17:35	bdmurray	One could also look in '/usr/share/bug/' for information to include for a specific package
17:36	hggdh	mrooney, also, the hook will have to be officially proposed, and will go through a review by the maintainers
17:38	mrooney	makes sense!
17:38	andresmujica	ok.
17:38	andresmujica	anything else we want to discuss?
17:39	mrooney	I had a quick one
17:39	mrooney	there was a bug filed for eeebotu in #ubuntu-bugs-announce that it shouldn't show Invalid bugs, I wondered what a consensus was on that
17:39	mrooney	it was discussed briefly in that channel
17:39	mrooney	I always thought seeing newly Invalidated bugs was interesting personally, sometimes people did it by mistake
17:39	hggdh	yes, Ampelbein filed it.
17:40	charlie-tca__	I find seeing them useful myself
17:40	bdmurray	I don't hang out in the channel much but agree
17:40	hggdh	but what a bout Triaged ones?
17:40	charlie-tca__	Triaged to Invalid?
17:40	mrooney	no I think hggdh meant newly filed bugs immediately set to triaged
17:41	hggdh	do triaged (but otherwise new) bugs appear on -announce?
17:41	mrooney	yeah they do
17:41	mrooney	the only stipulation is that they are newly filed
17:41	hggdh	should we keep them in the list?
17:41	mrooney	I could see that hiding Triaged bugs makes sense
17:41	hggdh	+1
17:42	bdmurray	I think those are more important for bug control to look at to ensure they are addressed
17:42	bdmurray	however maybe that should happen in a different channel
17:42	mrooney	yeah that should ideally be any bug set to triaged
17:42	mrooney	a newly filed bug that is triaged is probably done so by a developer as a workflow item
17:42	hggdh	hum. What about different channels with different bug status?
17:42	bdmurray	ah, yes
17:43	bdmurray	I think that would be really useful
17:43	mrooney	yeah that would be cool but is a larger topic, I wanted to make eeebotu look at all touched bugs and allow for that but never had the time
17:43	andresmujica	+1
17:43	bdmurray	at least for Confirmed, Triaged, High and Critical
17:43	hggdh	yes
17:44	mrooney	yeah that would be cool definiteily
17:44	hggdh	mrooney, let's work on it?
17:44	mrooney	I don't think it would be too much work, sounds good
17:44	mrooney	hggdh: I'll work with you on deploying a new eeebotu with the two bugs addressed as well as that
17:44	hggdh	mrooney, roger wilco
17:45	andresmujica	great!
17:46	andresmujica	so if there's nothing else...
17:46	bdmurray	Is anybody using the firefox extension?
17:46	hggdh	bdmurray, I am
17:46	micahg	the LP improvements?
17:46	bdmurray	Yeah
17:47	hggdh	but I cannot get the teams icons to show
* micahg is
17:47	andresmujica	which one.. ?  i've missed that one...
17:47	bdmurray	I was planning on making a larger announcement soon
17:47	bdmurray	hggdh: team icons were a launchpad bug, now its a script bug
17:47	bdmurray	but I plan on fixing that this week then announce if it is working well
17:47	hggdh	heh
17:47	hggdh	and update the package?
17:47	bdmurray	"it" being the extension as a whole
17:47	bdmurray	yes
17:48	hggdh	cool
17:48	hggdh	andresmujica, Brian package the LP greasemonkey scripts
17:49	andresmujica	i'm using the GM script..
17:51	hggdh	andresmujica, see https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-qa/2009-June/000488.html
17:51	bdmurray	I've made a firefox extension available as a ppa package that collects all of the greasemonkey scripts to allow for easier updates
17:51	andresmujica	cool... gonna test it..
17:52	andresmujica	ok,
17:52	mrooney	okay, I must head to work, I'll check the logs to read the rest, bye for now everyone :)
17:52	andresmujica	so the next meeting august 11th ?
17:52	hggdh	yes, me guesses
17:52	andresmujica	ok..
17:53	bdmurray	thanks andresmujica!
17:53	andresmujica	i'll update the wiki just after the meeting, if not it would be forgotten..
17:53	andresmujica	thanks to you!
17:53	hggdh	thank you for chairing, andresmujica
17:53	andresmujica	#endmeeting
17:53	MootBot	Meeting finished at 11:53.
</pre>
