{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Building Buzz ==

We launch "projects" in the Ubuntu community all the time and we've gotten pretty good at seeding the proper channels to ensure that the word gets out about anything we do. We're writing these down so other teams can take advantage of our communication network.

=== Pre-announcing ===

Sometimes you need to tell people ahead of time so they can prepare their teams to do something. 

* Give people on top of the communication chain a heads up.
** Ubuntu News Team
** Ubuntu Local Team leaders

=== Where to Announce ===

* Blogs
** Planet Ubuntu
** Ping people who are syndicated on other planets of interest.
** Ping related upstreams who can blog about it.

* Mailing Lists
** loco-contacts@lists.ubuntu.com if !LoCo related.
** DeveloperCommunication if development-related

* Ubuntu Forums
** The development release forum, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=44|packaging]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=11|community cafe]]</nowiki>

* Microblogs
** Ttwitter.
** Use groups and hashtags so people can find it and easily re-tweet.
 
* Ubuntu News Sites
** <nowiki>[[UWN|Ubuntu Weekly News]]</nowiki>
** The Fridge (ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com)
** Ubuntu-UK (popey, Tony Whitmore) and other podcasts.
** OMG Ubuntu
** WebUpd8

* Social Networks
** <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/ubuntulinux|Facebook]]</nowiki> - (We have over 100k followers, need to use this more)
** Ubuntu on Google+ and Twitter as well.
** @ubuntuappdev and @ubuntudev on G+/Twitter/Facebook too.
** The <nowiki>[[http://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu|Ubuntu Sub-Reddit]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://discourse.ubuntu.com/|Discourse]]</nowiki>

* Normal News sites (If appropriate)
** LWN (http://lwn.net/Calendar/new/)
** Ars Technica

* Magazines
** Ubuntu User, Full Circle

=== How to Announce ===

* Prewrite the Blog entry and social media entry. Have the social media entry reference the blog entry. When announcing via the other channels link to both - having the social link prepared will help get people liking / +1 it on the site, which leads to a snowball effect. 

=== Useful Links ===

* List of <nowiki>[[https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Marketing_press_publications|press publications]]</nowiki> from Fedora. (Well maintained)
