{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


We are now trying out a slightly different style for Team Reporting pages. This new style takes a little more work to initially set it up. However, after that, it requires significantly less work to maintain than the older method.

Start by editing https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YOURTEAM/TeamReports. This page will be where you link to on your other wiki pages. It will display the current team report, as well as links to older reports.

<pre>
== YOURTEAM Reporting Page ==

Welcome to the YOURTEAM reporting page. Every month this page should be filled with bullet points indicating the summary of some of the work you have been working on. As you work on something, try to summarise it here. A few guidelines for how to write good points here:

* Keep it simple and short - single sentences are best. :)
* Try to summarize your work and not be over-detailed - we don't need to know specifics, just a summary of the kind of work involved
* Where possible, include relevant links.

=== The Report ===

=== Previous Reports ===

==== 2010 ====
 
----
CategoryTeamReport
</pre>

The next step is to create the actual report for the current month. This file should be https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YOURTEAM/TeamReports/10/CURRENTMONTH, where CURRENTMONTH is replaced by the month in American English spelling, e.g. October. The report should look something like this:

<pre>
* <report item>
* <report item>
* <report item>
* <report item>
</pre>

Finally, we need to specify which report is the current report. Edit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YOURTEAM/TeamReports/Current, and make it look something like this:

<pre>
</pre>

This will cause the Include statement on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YOURTEAM/TeamReports to display the correct report.

Now, edit the <nowiki>[[TeamReports-MonthTemplate|Team Reports Template]]</nowiki>. You need to add a subsection for your team under the appropriate section. Then, add a line that looks like the following:

<pre>
</pre>

In this Include statement, you actually want to leave the "MONTH" part instead of replacing it with the current month. It will have to get replaced on each month's report page.

Now, after each event your team holds, update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YOURTEAM/TeamReports/10/CURRENTMONTH. At the end of the month, you will create a new reporting wiki page. Be sure to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/YOURTEAM/TeamReports/Current.

The deadline to include your team's report in the monthly Ubuntu Team Reports is the first Sunday of the following Month. For example, January's report is due the first Sunday of February.

That is all that there is to it. Once you follow these steps, you will have an easy to manage team reporting system in place.

If you are interested in seeing a live version of this new reporting style, you can look at the <nowiki>[[BeginnersTeam-TeamReports|Ubuntu Beginners Team's report page]]</nowiki>.
