{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Building Community FAQ ==

Welcome to the Building Community FAQ! The aim of this page is to provide an up to date list of common questions that we get about building effective communities. We encourage you to update this document when something is missing so it becomes a core source of information for the project.

== General Questions ==

=== What is the Ubuntu community? ===

The Ubuntu community is a huge worldwide community spanning many countries, disciplines, skills and more. The Ubuntu community is very open community, governed by an independent Community Council.

=== Should I take all my problems to the Community Council? ===

No. You should only take serious issues to the Community Council, and you should ensure these issues are well documented for the council to see. See <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TakingConflictToTheCommunityCouncil|this guide]]</nowiki> for more details.

== Resources ==

=== What resources should I set up for my team? ===

As a bare minimum, you should set up:

* A mailing list on lists.ubuntu.com
* A homepage on wiki.ubuntu.com
* An IRC channel on irc.freenode.net

See the <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-CreatingTeamGuide|Creating a Team]]</nowiki> guide for more details.

=== Can I run my own website for my team? ===

You can, but it is highly recommended that you make use of wiki.ubuntu.com otherwise you will spend ages setting up a website and not spending time building up your team. The aim here is to prevent wasting time setting up resources and instead spend time building your team and doing the work that your team is set up to do.

=== How do I make a decent wiki homepage? ===

See <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-CreatingWikiHomepage|Creating a Wiki Homepage]]</nowiki> for details, and also feel free to copy the <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-SampleTeam|Sample Team]]</nowiki> pages. :)

== Online Events ==

=== How often should I have an IRC meeting? ===

This is really dependent on how often you feel your team needs to have meetings. For some teams, their roadmap is pretty solid and don't need meetings that often. Other teams need more regular meetings. As a general ballpark, you should try to have a meeting at least once a month, possible every two weeks. Regular meetings are essential for good, functional teams.

See <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamIrcSessions|this guide]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== Where should I hold my IRC meetings? ===

This depends if it is a team meeting (your team IRC channel or #ubuntu-meeting) or a tuition session (#ubuntu-classroom). See <nowiki>[[BuildingCommunity-TeamIrcSessions|this guide]]</nowiki> for more details.

=== How long should meetings last? ===

This depends on how much you need to get through, but try to have a cut off time of two hours. Beyond two hours people start getting bored. An hour is the generally recommended time. Also expect meetings to overrun if there is not a meeting scheduled immediately after yours.

== Physical Events ==

== Dispute/Conflict Resolution ==

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBuildingCommunity]]</nowiki>
