{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Comments on this policy to Jono Bacon - jono AT ubuntu DOT com''

Recently I have been thinking a lot of how to deal with community issues more effectively. Right now we have limited visibility and tracking for handling issues in our community processes and infrastructure. This document outlines a proposal for a more effective method of dealing with these kinds of issues.

=== The Problem ===

Today in the Ubuntu project we have a well-defined and standardized approach for dealing with software defects and problems, but no standard method for dealing with defects and problems in our community processes and infrastructure.

Today community issues are expressed across mailing lists, direct email, blogs, IRC and other mediums. There are some problems with the current approach:

* No standard place to file issues or comment on issues.
* No prioritizing, severity or tracking meta-data.
* Lack of visibility.
* Lack of firm decision making authority on issues.

=== The Solution ===

Top-Level Governance Bodies:

* Community Council - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~communitycouncil
* Technical Board - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~techboard

Team Councils:

* IRC Council - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-irc-council
* MOTU Council - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~motu-council
* Forums Council - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~forum-council
* LoCo Council - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-lococouncil

Regional Membership Boards:

* EMEA Membership Board - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-membership-board-emea
* Americas Membership Board - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-membership-board-americas
* Oceania Membership Board - https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-membership-board-asia-oceania
