{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Community Contacts ==

This page lists some contact details that can help with community related issues.

=== Community Channel ===

Many of the different Ubuntu Council members and community workers and enthusiastic folks all hang out in:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-community-team|Our team in Launchpad.net]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-community-team|Our mailing list in Ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ircs:--irc.libera.chat-ubuntu-community-team|Our chat on Libera.chat]]</nowiki>

Feel free to pop in and ask for help or guidance.

=== Community Council ===

The Community Council is an independent group of established community members who make decisions on behalf of the Ubuntu community. More details about the Community Council can be found at https://ubuntu.com/community/governance/community-council.

Contact details:

* Email - 
=== LoCo Council ===

The Ubuntu LoCo Council is comprised of elected, dedicated members of the Ubuntu Community. They have diverse backgrounds, but have a firm understanding of what makes up successful LoCo's. The LoCo Council was set up to govern Ubuntu LoCo teams, and utilizing their past experiences, provide guidance and help when needed to these teams and lead them by example.
Council can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil.
LoCo Team pages can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeams.

Contact details:

* Email -  * IRC - #ubuntu-locoteams

=== Forum Council ===

The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil|Forum Council]]</nowiki> is a group that help with issues and concerns on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>, a web forum that give community based support to user of Ubuntu.

Contact details:

* Email - 
=== Membership Board ===

The Membership Board is responsible for approving new Ubuntu members, in the following time slots and days:

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/Boards#A12:00| 12:00 3rd Wednesday]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/Boards#A20:00| 20:00 1st Thursday]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/Boards#A22:00| 22:00 1st Thursday]]</nowiki>

=== Developer Membership Board ===

The DMB is responsible for reviewing and approving new Ubuntu developers, meeting for about an hour once a fortnight in #ubuntu-meeting. 

The Ubuntu Developer Membership Board currently approves <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers#ContribDev|Contributing Developers]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers#PerPackage|per-package uploaders]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers#MOTU|MOTU]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopers#CoreDev|Core Developers]]</nowiki>. To apply, please follow <nowiki>[[DeveloperMembershipBoard-ApplicationProcess|this process]]</nowiki>.

More information can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DeveloperMembershipBoard |HERE]]</nowiki>

* Email - developer-membership-board AT lists DOT ubuntu DOT com

=== Tech Board ===

The Ubuntu Technical Board is responsible for the technical direction that Ubuntu takes. The Technical Board makes final decisions over package selection, packaging policy, installation system and process, toolchain, kernel, X server, library versions and dependencies, and any other matter which requires technical supervision in Ubuntu.

More information can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TechnicalBoard| HERE]]</nowiki>

** Email technical-board  AT lists DOT ubuntu  DOT com

=== Kubuntu Council ===

The Kubuntu Council oversees Kubuntu, providing technical guidance, community governance, and ensuring the health of the project.

For more information see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu |HERE]]</nowiki>

=== Edubuntu Council ===

The Edubuntu Council oversees Edubuntu, providing technical guidance, community governance, and ensuring the health of the project.
* Launchpad Home: https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-council
* Community Council Delegate: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncil/Delegation

More information can be found <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Edubuntu/Council |HERE]]</nowiki> 

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBuildingCommunity]]</nowiki>
