{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Overview ==

This is the home page for Ubuntu Burmese translation.

Our intention is to maintain a central communications channel for Burmese languages. Generally, this includes the people translating in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-my|launchpad Burmese Language]]</nowiki>.

These variants are almost identical in their written forms, so it makes sense for some communication and co-operation to take place. We hope to eliminate the duplication of effort that is currently taking place in regards to translations.

Our translations are based on <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+lang/my|Burmese Language]]</nowiki>. That effort is headquartered <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-my|here]]</nowiki>. Essentially, we are producing a know-how form of Burmese Language version.

We do not intend to restrict the activities of local translation groups, but rather to provide a common base for everyone to build upon. Through co-operation, we hope to strengthen rather than weaken localised versions of Burmese Language.

== How to Participate ==

Joining the Ubuntu Burmese Translators team allows you to commit translations and vote on policies. If you are not a member, your contributions will need to be approved by a member. The procedure for joining is as follows.

# Sign up for a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/|Launchpad account]]</nowiki>.
# Make your e-mail address visible on your Launchpad homepage so that we can get in touch with you. If we cannot contact you, you cannot join.
# Apply to join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-my|Ubuntu Burmese Translators team]]</nowiki>
# Sign up to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-my|ubuntu-l10n-my mailing list]]</nowiki>
# An Administrator should e-mail you. Reply to their message.

The team is moderated, meaning that you need to be approved by an Administrator before you are allowed to join. Membership is dependent upon:

* adequate command of both English and Burmese language to qualify as a translator
* ability to contribute constructively and work as a team under the leadership of the Administrators
* following established guidelines and directions
* remaining contactable via the mailing list

Don't let these requirements scare you off, though. Provided you have decent written English language skills, you will likely be admitted.

== Communication ==

Our primary communications channel is our <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-l10n-my|mailing list]]</nowiki>.

== Translation Guidelines ==

Unless they conflict with the information given below, translations should be based on the proper vocabulary. You can check the following online dictionaries for some vocab.

* the <nowiki>[[http://www.ornagai.com/|Ornagai English To Myanmar,Myanmar To English Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://www.burmese-dictionary.org/|Burmese-English-Burmese Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://dictionary.all-channel.com/|All Channel-Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://www.sealang.net/burmese/dictionary.htm|SEAlang Library Burmese Dictionary]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://en.my-mm.org/|Light Myanmar Dictionary for Zawgyi]]</nowiki>
* the <nowiki>[[http://mmdictionary.com/|Free Online Myanmar Dictionary created by Whizzo System Students]]</nowiki>

=== Dialectical/Contextual Differences ===

Since our goal is to provide a common base for Burmese, one must be mindful of the use of words in translation, and the differences between dialects and contexts (nouns/verbs, computing/non-computing, etc.).  We will use the mailing list or webchat to discuss such matters.

=== Translation Tools ===

Highly recommended:

* <nowiki>[[http://whizzosystem.com/download.htm/|Whizzo System English to Myanmar Dictionary]]</nowiki>, by Whizzo System.
* <nowiki>[[http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/ncsoft/English-Myanmar%20Dictionary.zip?use_mirror=ncu/|Myanmar Dictionary]]</nowiki> by <nowiki>[[http://myanmar-dictionary.blogspot.com/|Myanmar Dictionary Software]]</nowiki>.
 
Other useful resources:

Coming Soon!!
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryLoCoTeams 
