{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/uem
* '''Created''': @10/19/2005@ by flint@flint.com
* '''Contributors''': Paul Flint
* '''Packages affected''': Edubuntu

=== Summary ===
In order for Edubuntu to thrive, this system must be placed in Classroom environments.  This is an entirely different proposition than Ubuntu, which is loaded for the pleasure of an individual or small group.  Edubuntu needs to cater to an educational institution's needs, and therefore must be crafted in all ways to appeal to the gateway individual in this area, the Educational Institutional Technologist (EIT).  

=== Rationale ===
The EIT is the bad news.  This person (or persons) has little interest or inclination to upset the existing system and architecture he or she is maintaining and which they believe is thriving, and that anything else is a threat.  

The good news is that these EITs and the institutions they represent have Resources (e.g. coin of the realm, often from taxpayers, always from parents) and are willing to devote these resources to the Operations and Maintenance of a product that helps the Learning and Teaching process particularly one that is demonstrably less work for them.

The fact that experience has demonstrated that this system has institutional lifecycle resource considerations and, most particularly an Operations and Maintenance Tail (O&M Tail).  This is an advantage rather than a disadvantage.

=== Use cases ===
* Arlington Virginia Public School System
* Arlington Housing Authority
* Arlandria Tenants Workers Support Comittee
* Mount Ranier Public Library
* Thomas Jefferson Science School Fairfax Virginia

=== Scope ===
This is currently limited Edubuntu, however it is expected that this would be the model for Ubuntu applications used for government, institutional and commercial use, for these we coin the term Combuntu (Institubuntu, Gobuntu ??).  This may be revised and expanded 

=== Design ===
The illustration below details this design
(insert illustration here)

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====
'''Several areas of Code are effected''' 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| Code effect TBA
|-
| Trouble Ticketing
| Code effect to factor to service centers
|-
| Malone
| Synegersism between troubles and bugs
|-
| Billing Code
| Obtains funds from institutional clients
|-
| Payment
| arranges for reward for labor allocates resources for labor
|-
| Proposal Machine
| Presents Comfortable Terms of reference to the potential client
|}

==== Data preservation and migration ====
This system should be built within a python / zope / plone context.

==== Consultancy ====
* Life Cycle Support

===== Before Cellophane =====
* Relationship Management
* Pre installation (Sales)
* Installation 

===== After Cellophane =====
* Operations (Administration, backup, etc)
* Maintenance & Upgrade
* Trouble Ticket 

==== Bank ====
* Repository for consulting funds 
* Disbursement for funds

==== University ====
* Certification Recognition
* Research 
* Development
* Code Repository

==== Edubuntu Economic Machine ====
I believe that in order to get Edubuntu into educational institutions we will need to cater to the EIT throughout the Edubuntu System Lifecycle.  I further feel that these systems shall need a specific type of support that for lack of a better term I call the Contracting and Consulting Services.  In my experience, Consulting economic engines are comprised of three distinct components

==== Flint's Consulting Business Model ====
The business of consulting and contracting revolves around a simple structure; human sweat is the input and money is the output.  Within this structure, and in order of importance are the following sub processes, completely contained within the existing process.

===== Billing =====
Most important and cyclic
===== Proposal =====
Gets names and addresses to bill against
===== Work =====
Keeps the police from arresting you for fraud

=== Outstanding issues ===
Specific outstanding issues include the five W's
==== Who? ====
A personnel structure will be required.  These folks will need some form or training and/or certification.  My belief that to be a senior member of this club, you need to contribute to the code base that is Ubuntu.
==== What? ====
This is basically a business plan.  Somehow it needs to look and act more like a business plan.
==== Where? ====
This plan will require several components;
* Server Space
* Financial Components
* World wide office facilities for service
==== When? ====
This needs to start simultaneously with the popularity of Edubuntu.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
Our job in this BOF is to explore these areas outlined above.
----
CategorySpec
