{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Ubuntu is an operating system very effective and simple to use. I like especially its stability and convenience in 'use. The philosophy that makes this distribution to its cappillarità and large marketing campaigns carried out. And 'one of the best distributions I've personally used over the years.

=== About me ===

Using GNU/Linux since 2008, when by chance I started to conscious this free operating system. The distribution that they gave me was not very pleasant and it proved difficult in 'installation. Continue command lines for both the disk partition and post installation. Then I went to know other Ubuntu distributions especially for the myriad of information that I found in the forum, and because the distribution is best known. The installation proved to be far from simple 'beginning, and very pleasing to the eye and customizable in all aspects. Since then became my GNU / Linux distribution of choice, and the desire to contribute to its development and to raise awareness of this free operating system to others, just because you did not know him, it became my goal

Family name: Buzzo

Name: Luca Pio

Country: Santa Maria di Sala

City: Venezia (Italy)

Email: lucapio.buzzo@poste.it

=== Philosophy ===

My life philosophy is to engage in intellectual challenges.

=== Contacts ===

Skype: buzzo.luca.pio

Identi.ca: buzzolucapio

Mail: lucapio.buzzo@poste.it

Web: http://www.eklick.it

key OpenPGP Pubblic: 899695EB

=== Profile ===

My profile launchpad:  https://launchpad.net/~lucapio-buzzo

CategoryHomepage
