{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Q+ADays is still being formed, but please feel free to add your name to the list

The next Q+ADays begins on Saturday 28st of July 00:00:00 UTC, and ends Sunday the 29nd of July 23:59:59

=== What its about ===

Q+ADays is similar to BugDay or HugDay. Except that Q+ADays is on Launchpad answering Questions with the 'Questions and Answers' facility. Questions that have expired or been forgotten about can resume live once more. The other difference is that it spans over 2 days, so that any answered questions can be responded to by the question owner. The aim of the day is to get as many questions answered/solved in this 2 day period. There are over 9550 questions at present, and though quite a few get answered or solved. A large percentage are left untouched, and people are still left in need of help. In touch with the whole meaning of Ubuntu. Q+ADays is about helping others.

When answering as part of Q+ADays, please append this to the end of your question, 

"Answered as part of Q+ADays :D
http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Q+ADays"

Participation Table

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Participants
| Nick
| Launchpad Page(optional)
|-
| Sam Cater
| sacater
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~sacater|sacater]]</nowiki>
|-
| Siegfried Gevatter
| RainCT
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~rainct|rainct]]</nowiki>
|-
| Alex Muntada
| AlexMuntada
| <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~alex.muntada|alex.muntada]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|-
| 
| 
| 
|}

If you have any questions email Sam Cater (sacater@ubuntu.com)
