{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Blueprints and Status ===
* Work Item Status for Precise: http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-platform-qa.html 
* Work Item Status for Alpha 1:  http://status.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-precise/canonical-platform-qa-precise-alpha-1.html

=== Precise Alpha1 Testing ===
* Testing Report: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/PreciseAlpha1TestReport
* The pass rate is much higher than Oneiric Alpha 1 It is 97.80% for Precise A1 against 89.22% for Oneiric Alpha 1, and 18 bugs found in this milestone against 39 for the same milestone in Oneiric. But the number of critical and high importance defects are close (2 critical in both and 9 high in Precise against 12 in Oneiric)

* The number of contributions is in line with Oneiric Alpha 1.

* Results
** Image Coverage : 79.59% (39/49)
** AMD64+Mac and PowerPC untested

''' Coverage broken down by peoduct '''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Product
| Coverage
| Pass Rate
|-
| Edubuntu
| 100.00%
| 100.00%
|-
| Kubuntu
| 12.96%
| 77.78%
|-
| Lubuntu
| 85.71%
| 91.67%
|-
| Netboot
| 100.00%
| 100.00%
|-
| Ubuntu
| 83.87%
| 97.10%
|-
| Ubuntu Core
| 100.00%
| 100.00%
|-
| Ubuntu Server
| 90.00%
| 98.18%
|-
| Upgrade
| 100.00%
| 80.00%
|-
| Xubuntu
| 88.89%
| 95.65%
|}

* Failures summary: 18 bugs have been reported affecting a total of 15 test cases and 5 tests failed (Pass Rate: 97.80%)
<<BR>>
'''Bug Tasks Importance'''
* Critical  	: 2 (2 closed)
* High      	: 9 (2 closed)
* Medium    	: 6 (2 closed)
* Undecided 	: 6 (1 closed)

=== What was done engineering wise? ===
* Automated upgrade testing
** Added new profiles to the automated upgrade testing:
*** main-all (i386/amd64): Installs all (or nearly all) of main and upgrades
*** lts-ubuntu (i386/amd64): Upgrades from Lucid Ubuntu Desktop to Precise
*** lts-server (i386/amd64): Upgrades from a minimal Lucid Ubuntu Server to Precise
** Results: https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise/job/precise-upgrade/

* Boot Speed testing
** Results available here: http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/boot-speed/
** Jobs available here: https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise%20Boot%20Speed/

* Autotest package in https://launchpad.net/~nuclearbob/+archive/ppa
** Installation scripts in progress, separate client setup forthcoming

=== What's about to land that might impact the other teams? ===
=== Summary of bugs working on by team (reasonably reliable) ===
* Bug:894768 Installation randomly fails with [...] IOError: [Errno 22] Invalid argument
** Create an environment to reliably reproduce that bug

=== Dependencies on other teams, blocking items ===
None.

=== Issues? ===
None.

=== Other Business ===

* We discussed a test case definition at UDS (https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-test-case-definition) Gema proposed a definition (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TestCase) during last QA Meeting and the QA Team decided to embrace it and start using it widely. So any test cases from now on will have that format.
