{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Links to QA Documentation ==

This page contains links to documentation you might find useful.

=== DEP-8 / adt ===

<nowiki>[[http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep8/|DEP-8]]</nowiki> is a standard format for describing test suites in both debian and click packages. <nowiki>[[https://packages.debian.org/sid/autopkgtest|autopkgtest]]</nowiki> is a test runner that understands DEP-8 and can run tests in a number of a different backeds (schroot, qemu, ssh etc). By separating these two concerns, we get more reproducible builds, a clearer definition of tests, and a more explicit list of test requireents.

* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/auto-pkg-test.html|Intro]]</nowiki> how to add an autopkgtest to a Debian package and run it like in Ubuntu CI
* <nowiki>[[https://people.debian.org/~mpitt/autopkgtest/README.click-tests.html|DEP-8 test descriptions for click packages]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://people.debian.org/~mpitt/autopkgtest/README.package-tests.html|DEP-8 test descriptions for Debian packages]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://people.debian.org/~mpitt/autopkgtest/README.running-tests.html|How to run DEP-8 tests with adt-run]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Touch-Testing#Running_tests_with_autopkgtest|How to run click package tests on Touch with adt-run]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://people.debian.org/~mpitt/autopkgtest/README.virtualisation-server.html|How to Make a new virtualisation backend for autopkgtest]]</nowiki>

=== Autopilot ===

* <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/api/devel/ubuntu-14.10/python/autopilot/|The latest autopilot documentation can be found here]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/apps/platform/guides/acceptance-testing-using-the-page-object-model/|How to architect your autopilot code using the Page Object Model]]</nowiki>

==== Releasing Autopilot ====

* <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/document/d/18FfobjpzzcADZBivNicSctUlqiPH7fJmkwhYUHvUChc/edit#heading=h.gsppfgl6d4tz|CI Train in a nutshell]]</nowiki>

=== QA Best Practices ===

From time to time the Ubuntu Engineering QA department will make recommendations to other teams around what test helpers are needed.  <nowiki>[[http://people.canonical.com/~thomir/ueqa-code-proposals/|These proposals will appear here]]</nowiki>. They may be useful to get an idea of what is expected for new feature QA acceptance criteria.

=== QAKit ===

A <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/qakit|repository for Ops-related and useful tools]]</nowiki>, including:

* Trello silo-card creation, interface to CI Train.
* !PractitTest tracking.
* Metrics.

=== Recommended Tools & Libraries ===

A list of recommended tools & libraries.

* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/autopilot|Autopilot]]</nowiki> for Functional & User acceptance tests.
* Use the <nowiki>[[https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-subunit|Subunit]]</nowiki> v2 format for all test results. Avoid junitXML please. (Autopilot supports subunitout-of-the-box).
* Use <nowiki>[[https://pypi.python.org/pypi/testscenarios/|testscenarios]]</nowiki> to add scenarios to tests. Be careful though, as this can make tests less readable. If in doubt, ask a QA engineer.
* Use <nowiki>[[https://pypi.python.org/pypi/testtools|testtools]]</nowiki> to test python projects where autopilot is not available.
* Use <nowiki>[[https://pypi.python.org/pypi/testresources|testresources]]</nowiki> to maintain expensive resources across multiple tests.
