{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== List of systems to consider for the Q&A Localization project ==

=== OSQA ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.osqa.net]]</nowiki>

* Pros:
** Open Source
** Has already been tested by Ubuntu-IT
** Ubuntu SSO is already implemented
** Does have a points and trophy system.

* Cons:
** Some strings are coded in a very weird way, but patches can be sent upstream
** Someone with knowledge on it would need to build it, other teams tried to replicate it unsuccessfully (talking about the Ubuntu-IT model)

=== question2answer ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.question2answer.org/]]</nowiki>

* Pros:
** Has already been implemented, and <nowiki>[[http://communityserver.ubuntu-nl.org/vraag-en-antwoord/|is being tested]]</nowiki> by Ubuntu-NL.
** Has Ubuntu SSO, already been implenmented.
** Is already translated in multiple languages.
** Translations in multiple languages are available.
** Has an active community building plugins, etc.
** Based on LAMP (php/mysql), so very low in installation requirements, especially on limited hosts (shared hosting) where there is no or little user control.

* Cons:
** Design needs to be implemented
** Only has a points-based system, no trophies or prizes or something similar, needs to be implemented via a plugin
** Not using gettext (.po/.pot) for translations, so can't use Launchpad.

* About the <nowiki>[[http://communityserver.ubuntu-nl.org/vraag-en-antwoord/|Ubuntu-NL test implementation]]</nowiki> of q2a
** Question2answer uses, shares the smf forum login (Open-id and password) and session.
** Question2answer uses, shares smf forum group and user managent via smf admin interface.
** Points are hidden, quite some users in our community dislike the point system, but the point system is available.
  
=== Shapado ===

* <nowiki>[[https://shapado.com]]</nowiki>

* Pros
** Has been used by the community in the past, see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.shapado.com]]</nowiki>
** System is also used by Debian on their Q&A system, see <nowiki>[[http://ask.debian.net]]</nowiki>
** Has a wide variety of badges and 'prizes'

* Cons
** The design needs to be improved lots
** There are external links put there by the system, maybe that can be removed by tweaking the code

=== AskBot ===

* <nowiki>[[https://github.com/ASKBOT/askbot-devel]]</nowiki>

* Pros
** Used by a big community https://ask.fedoraproject.org
** Very similar to stackoverflow.com

* Cons
** 
** 
