{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Hour ===
Event Link: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-qa/2291-qatari-ubuntu-hour/

We
<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-qa/2291-qatari-ubuntu-hour/|scheduled]]</nowiki> an <nowiki>[[Hour|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> for Friday 5th April 2013 from 3pm to 4pm at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/935/detail|Museum of Islamic Art]]</nowiki>.   

There were three of us, and we just ''hung out'' and discussed how '''great''' Ubuntu is, and what we can do gain some momentum.

=== Present (in order of appearance) ===
* Roy Verrips a.k.a. <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki>
* Shahnoor Ashraf a.k.a. <nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki>
* Saiful-Islam (Guest of <nowiki>[[kasiweb]]</nowiki>)
=== Minutes ===
All present agreed that the QatariTeam Logo (Ubuntu circle with a map of Qatar imposed in the centre) should be our team logo.  <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki> will go ahead and implement that on the wiki via http://spreadubuntu.org 

<nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki> has some great idea's about how to promote Ubuntu and get "the word out".  We explained in length how we should have a two pronged strategy of Community Building activities, like <nowiki>[[Hour|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> and the like, and also how we should look to encourage commercial entities to switch their offices to Open Source solutions that can run on Ubuntu, like <nowiki>[[GnuCashHowTo|GnuCash]]</nowiki> for accounting, <nowiki>[[http://www.alfresco.com|Alfresco]]</nowiki> for document sharing and collaboration, etc.   

We decided together that the launch later in April of <nowiki>[[RaringRingtail]]</nowiki> would be a good reason to:

* Contact the management of <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/963/detail/|Sofitel computer market]]</nowiki> to request permission to setup a booth - <nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki> will contact them.
* Design a pamphlet/handout with details of the benefits of Ubuntu and contact details of the loco, to be handed out at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/963/detail/|Sofitel computer market]]</nowiki> if permission is granted - <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki> will design the pamphlet and send to <nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki> to produce.
* Design a rollup banner to be used for awareness when doing the pamphlet handouts. - <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki> will desing the banner and send to <nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki> to produce.
* Think through some idea's to either install Ubuntu on the spot for folks or hand out CD's or USB's with Ubuntu.

We ended the meetup by all presenting signing a postcard that <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki> will send to <nowiki>[[http://philipballew.wordpress.com/2013/04/04/repersent-your-lo-co-and-send-a-post-card-to-show-that-ubuntu-is-used-all-over-the-world/|Philip Ballew]]</nowiki>
=== Next Meetup ===
The Launch Party on Friday 26th April 2013

Venue to be confirmed <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/963/detail/|Sofitel computer market]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-qa/2328-ringtail-launch-party-in-qatar/|Register to join us]]</nowiki>

=== Update on 17th April ===

<nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki> had a phone conversation today and decided that we would no longer aim to meet at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/963/detail/|Sofitel computer market]]</nowiki> as an exposure event, but rather meet again for the launch party at our regular spot, the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/935/detail|Museum of Islamic Art]]</nowiki>, and try attract some new Ubuntu users.   

----
CategoryLoco
