{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Hour ===
Event Link: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-qa/2457-ubuntu-hour/

We
<nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-qa/2457-ubuntu-hour/|scheduled]]</nowiki> an <nowiki>[[Hour|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> for Friday 5th July 2013 from 5pm to 6pm at the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Qatar/935/detail|Museum of Islamic Art]]</nowiki>.   

=== Present (in order of appearance) ===
* Roy Verrips a.k.a. <nowiki>[[rverrips]]</nowiki> 
* Nino Kader 
* Shahnoor Ashraf a.k.a. <nowiki>[[kaziweb]]</nowiki>
* Hyder Mir a.k.a. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hyder-hr|hyder-hr]]</nowiki>

=== Minutes ===

We had a good meeting.  Nino (first time visitor) was asking questions about how he could change himself and perhaps his company's desktop/laptop environment to Ubuntu.  A general discussion about the benefits and options of Ubuntu went on until about 6pm.   We discussed things like:

* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> vs <nowiki>[[Kubuntu]]</nowiki> vs <nowiki>[[Lubuntu]]</nowiki> and even <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/macbuntu/|MacBuntu]]</nowiki>
* Office Suites available in <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> like <nowiki>[[LibreOffice]]</nowiki>
* Internet browsers for <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> like <nowiki>[[http://mozilla.org/firefox|Firefox]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser|Google Chrome]]</nowiki> and also how Microsoft Internet Explorer can be run if needed using Wine or <nowiki>[[http://virtualbox.org|Virtualbox]]</nowiki>
* Email clients for <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> like <nowiki>[[http://mozilla.org/thunderbird|Thunderbird]]</nowiki> 
* Multiplatform file backup and sharing utilities like <nowiki>[[https://www.dropbox.com/install?os=lnx|Dropbox]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JohnBaer/SoftwareCentreVisualDesign|Ubuntu Software Center]]</nowiki> where various other software packages can be downloaded, mostly free, and sometimes at a cost.  
* The limitations of Ubuntu were also briefly discussed.  Although software exists for web design like the great graphics package <nowiki>[[http://www.gimp.org/|GIMP]]</nowiki> and various web editors, using them would involve a learning curve away from platforms like Adobe Flasheditor and Dreamweaver.   In the same light though, we also discussed a bit how web development has now moved to a scenario where a team of developers will work on mirrored copies of a website "offline" running <nowiki>[[http://httpd.apache.org/|Apache]]</nowiki> webserver locally (which is setup in minutes on an Ubuntu machine) and publishing changes with versioncontrol systems like <nowiki>[[http://git-scm.com/|GIT]]</nowiki>, etc. 
* Great free website development editors like <nowiki>[[http://jedit.org|jEdit]]</nowiki> and the commercial <nowiki>[[http://www.sublimetext.com/2|Sublime Text 2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> based website hosting solutions, like the virtual servers running <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> in the cloud at <nowiki>[[http://www.linode.com|Linode]]</nowiki>
* How <nowiki>[[Ubuntu]]</nowiki> supports all major VPN standards like L2TP, PPTP and IPSec as used by commercial VPN providers such as <nowiki>[[http://witopia.net|Witopia]]</nowiki> 

It also was great hearing from <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hyder-hr|hyder-hr]]</nowiki> about his recent move to Ubuntu and how he's been enjoying the change, having purchased a Dell with Ubuntu preinstalled at Sofitel Plaza here in Doha.

After (From about 6:05pm to 6:10pm) that we chatted a bit about opportunities for growing the community but nothing certain as yet.  

We ended around 6:15pm and look forward to having another <nowiki>[[UbuntuHour]]</nowiki> in two weeks time or so.
----
CategoryLoco
