{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions (all)

* Community Efforts/Testing

* Automated/Systems Testing

* Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)

* Other Topics
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meetings  (gema, 18:18:30)

* Chair Selection
''ACTION:'' Gema to chair the new QA meeting  (gema, 18:23:48)
''ACTION:'' pedro_ to chair the new Bugs meeting  (gema, 18:24:00)

Meeting ended at 18:24:59 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* Gema to chair the new QA meeting
* pedro_ to chair the new Bugs meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* pedro_
* * pedro_ to chair the new Bugs meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gema (65)
* nuclearbob (7)
* pedro_ (6)
* Ursinha (6)
* meetingology (5)
* IAmNotThatGuy (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:01:27 <gema> #startmeeting Ubuntu QA Team

 18:01:27 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov 23 18:01:27 2011 UTC.  The chair is gema. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 18:01:27 <meetingology> 

 18:01:27 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:01:50 <gema> anyone here for the meeting?

 18:02:43 <Ursinha> o/

 18:02:55 <gema> cool, hello Ursinha , it may just be the two of us :D

 18:02:59 <Ursinha> lol

 18:03:03 <Ursinha> nuclearbob too?

 18:03:21 <nuclearbob> I'm here

 18:03:31 <gema> excellent!

 18:03:38 <IAmNotThatGuy> Hi. I also will be watching =]

 18:03:45 <gema> jibel told me he cannot attend but gave me his feedback

 18:03:50 <gema> IAmNotThatGuy: welcome :D

 18:04:04 <gema> there we go, let's get started then

 18:04:14 <gema> [TOPIC] Previous Actions (all)

 18:04:28 <gema> the only previous action I am aware of is me chairing the meeting

 18:04:32 <gema> do you guys have anything else?

 18:05:08 <gema> ok, cool, let's keep going

 18:05:18 <gema> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 18:05:37 <gema> I have two calls for testing from jibel :)

 18:05:55 <gema> 1) people interested can try to break the new tracker at http://91.189.93.73/qatracker

 18:06:08 <gema> 2) A1 is next week, so people can start testing dailies and are welcome to participate to A1 milestone testing starting on Monday/Tuesday

 18:06:33 <gema> A1 is already here, so please please, get your awesome manual testing started!

 18:06:48 <gema> anything else from anyone?

 18:07:28 <gema> moving on

 18:07:32 <gema> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 18:07:49 <gema> so, I have feedback from jibel here too:

 18:08:01 <gema> * we are now keeping 15 days on ISO in the Lab https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-builds-smoke-testing

 18:08:18 <gema> we are starting a historic of builds so that when a build is broken, we can go back and test on yesterdays

 18:08:27 <gema> we'll keep 2 weeks worth of builds for now

 18:08:41 <gema> we'll let you know as soon as they are externally accessible

 18:08:56 <gema> * Unity Testing: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-p-unity-quality + https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UnityAutolandingSetup

 18:09:15 <gema> details regarding the unity testing we are trying to run on Jenkins

 18:09:31 <gema> or rather, we are running

 18:10:04 <gema> * desktop images are broken but we are working on it

 18:10:17 <gema> anything else to report, anyone?

 18:10:48 <gema> nuclearbob?

 18:11:10 <nuclearbob> we've got a wrapper to run the qa-regression-testing scripts in autotest now

 18:11:12 <nuclearbob> I'

 18:11:31 <nuclearbob> m getting autotest packaged so we can get it installed in the new lab and start using it to run qrt tests from jenkins

 18:12:15 <gema> sounds good, thanks, anyone else?

 18:12:21 <nuclearbob> I'll also be working on collecting manual testing results from checkbox to get them into the same data source as our automated testing, but that project is still commencing

 18:12:24 <nuclearbob> ..

 18:12:27 <gema> sorry, :D

 18:12:59 <gema> oh, yep, integrating checkbox with litmus

 18:13:18 <gema> I forgot to mention, we are in the process of getting a litmus instance installed for everyone to use and contribute test cases to

 18:13:35 <gema> this is a pilot, we'll let you know whenever it is ready to use

 18:13:50 <gema> (i.e. when it is fully functional)

 18:14:06 <gema> that's all from us, I think

 18:14:16 <gema> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)

 18:14:27 <gema> Ursinha ?

 18:15:16 <gema> pedro_: are you there?

 18:15:26 <pedro_> i'm around yes

 18:15:31 <Ursinha> I am, but nothing to report

 18:15:42 <Ursinha> working on refactoring bug workflows of our teams

 18:15:42 <gema> anything to report from you, pedro_ ?

 18:16:16 <gema> Ursinha: thanks :)

 18:16:33 <pedro_> gema, nothing really important to share in the meeting

 18:17:00 <gema> ok, hggdh was working on an SRU problem before , so I think he is busy

 18:17:09 <gema> let's move on

 18:17:18 <gema> [TOPIC] Other Topics

 18:17:42 <gema> and here is the important update

 18:17:47 <gema> there will be IMPORTANT CHANGES to this meeting from next week onwards

 18:17:57 <gema> we are going to be splitting this meeting in two different ones, one for QA/testing and another one for Bug triaging

 18:18:10 <gema> the bug triaging meeting will keep this slot and the QA meeting will happen, from next week onwards one hour earlier

 18:18:21 <gema> you are more than welcome to contribute to the two agendas and propose new items for discussion

 18:18:30 <gema> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/Meetings

 18:18:43 <gema> I will be sending an email to ubuntu-devel@lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-qa@lists.ubuntu.com, ubuntu-bugsquad@lists.ubuntu.com and ubuntu-bugcontrol@lists.launchpad.net regarding the change so that everyone is aware for next week

 18:19:01 * Ursinha likes the change

 18:19:06 <pedro_> cool :-)

 18:19:10 <gema> :D

 18:19:25 <pedro_> gema, thanks for organizing it

 18:19:31 <gema> pedro_: no problem

 18:20:02 <gema> does anyone have any question regarding the change or any concerns?

 18:22:19 <gema> ok, so we will move on and choose two people for next week's meetings :)

 18:22:26 <gema> [TOPIC] Chair Selection

 18:22:48 <gema> since it is the first one for QA alone, I will be chairing that and discussing a new agenda and stuff like that

 18:23:02 <gema> who wants to volunteer for the bugs meeting?

 18:23:24 <pedro_> i can do that

 18:23:38 <gema> thanks pedro_

 18:23:44 <pedro_> np

 18:23:48 <gema> [ACTION] Gema to chair the new QA meeting

 18:23:48 * meetingology Gema to chair the new QA meeting

 18:24:00 <gema> [ACTION] pedro_ to chair the new Bugs meeting

 18:24:00 * meetingology pedro_ to chair the new Bugs meeting

 18:24:26 <gema> thanks everyone for your time

 18:24:42 <nuclearbob> thanks for chairing

 18:24:47 <gema> np

 18:24:59 <gema> #endmeeting
