{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Related Teams ==
The following is a list of related QA teams within the ubuntu ecosystem and some brief descriptions and links to more information on the teams.

* Canonical Platform QA Team
* Ubuntu Testing Team
* Ubuntu Laptop Testing Team
* SRU verification Team
* Product Strategy Quality Team
* OEM Services QA Team
* Ubuntu Bug Squad
* Ubuntu Friendly Squad
* Ubuntu+1 Testing Team(s)
* Ubuntu+1 Maintenance Team
* Ubuntu Localized Image Testing Teams
* Ubuntu Flavors QA Teams
** Edubuntu
** Lubuntu
** Xubuntu
** Kubuntu
** Ubuntu Studio
** Mythbuntu

=== Team Descriptions ===

==== Canonical Platform QA Team ====
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~canonical-platform-qa

This team is made up of Canonical employees who are performing qa for ubuntu. They are responsible for helping keep the testing infrastructure going, as well as coordinating and performing daily smoke testing, SRU's, and iso testing.

==== Ubuntu Laptop Testing Team ====
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-laptop-testing

Wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop

This team is a focus group of the ubuntu qa team specializing in ensuring laptops work properly with each ubuntu release by testing isos for basic functionality across a wide range of laptops.

==== SRU Verification Team ====
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~sru-verification

Wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates

People in this team perform the verification of packages that are candidates for a Stable Release Update. The candidate packages exist in the -proposed repository and need testing before they are moved to -updates.

==== Product Strategy Quality Team ====
Blog: http://qualityhour.wordpress.com/

IRC channel: #ubuntu-testing

This team is made up of Canonical employees from the product strategy team. They are responsible for things like unity and enhancing the end user experience inside ubuntu. The quality team is specifically focused on making sure all of those ideas and features are put to the test before being deployed to the greater community of end users. If your interested in helping improve the ubuntu user experience, this team's mailing lists and IRC meetings are a great place to start.

==== OEM Services QA Team ====
Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/~oem-qa

This team is made up of Canonical employees who are responsible for helping certify machines for ubuntu.

==== Ubuntu Bug Squad ====
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad

Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad

Mailing List: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad

The bug squad! These wonderful folks pore over, triage, and assign bug reports. They act as the critical piece of communication and help between developers and users.

==== Ubuntu Friendly Squad ====
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-friendly-squad

Website: https://friendly.ubuntu.com/

Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFriendly

This team is focused on making it easier to find and use laptops and computers that work "out of the box" with ubuntu. If you have ever had the experience of having ubuntu not boot on that old laptop, or boot to a black screen even though your desktop pc works marvelously, this is the site for you

==== Ubuntu+1 Testing Team(s) ====
IRC Channel: #ubuntu+1

Forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=412

These team(s) are composed of people willing to be on the front lines and always running the next version of ubuntu. They provide help and support amongst each other, and valuable bug reports and first responder feedback to the development teams. The structure is rather informal, and the requirements are low -- you simply need to commit to running the development release and learn how to submit good bug reports.

==== Ubuntu+1 Maintenance Team ====
IRC Channel: #ubuntu+1-maint

Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PlusOneMaintenanceTeam

This team has a goal is to have the archive be ALWAYS installable and usable. For anyone who has ever run the development version of ubuntu in the past, you know how difficult a task this is!

==== Ubuntu Localized Image Testing Teams ====
Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/LocalizedImageContacts

Ubuntu's wonderful LoCo teams showoff the true meaning of ubuntu and the spirit of FOSS. In addition to the many other activities LoCo's do, some are providing localized iso's for there users. If your a non-English speaker, you understand what a blessing this can be when your having to install ubuntu. Since these images contain additions to the standard iso image, they must also be tested for bugs.

==== Ubuntu Italian Testing Team ====
Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-testing

This team is a wonderful example of a loco team doing testing for ubuntu. They organize goals each cycle typically surrounding creating a localized Italian iso, as well as doing laptop testing to ensure ubuntu works on common laptop configurations.

==== Ubuntu Flavors QA Teams ====
Do you like using ubuntu, but find yourself using one of the official flavors of ubuntu instead? These teams produce there own isos and packages, in addition to supporting different subsets of software. Each flavor has there own method of doing QA, but the goal is the same -- to deliver quality releases for there users.

===== Edubuntu =====
IRC Channel: #edubuntu

Webpage: http://www.edubuntu.org/

===== Lubuntu =====
IRC Channel: #lubuntu-qa

Launchpad Page: https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-qa

Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing

Mailing List: https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-qa/

===== Xubuntu =====
IRC Channel: #xubuntu-devel

Webpage: http://www.xubuntu.org/contribute/qa_bugs_testing

Mailing List: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel

===== Kubuntu =====
IRC Channel: #kubuntu-devel

Webpage: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kubuntu/QA

Mailing List: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-devel

===== Ubuntu Studio =====
IRC Channel: #ubuntustudio

Webpage: http://ubuntustudio.org/

===== Mythbuntu =====
IRC Channel: #ubuntu-mythtv

Webpage: http://www.mythbuntu.org/testingandreporting
