{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

* Bug Importance Guidelines
** Brian Murray (bdmurray) is sending an e-mail to the ubuntu-devel mailing list requesting a discussion about setting bug Importance on a per-package basis instead of on a per-distribution basis.
* Iso Testing Bug report layout.  While testing UME cgregan came up with a nice bug report template to write out reports.  I am attempting to do the same thing for Iso testing.  I think the polished our reports are the more the dev's will look to them.  (As the QATeam I also feel we should lead the way hear too). <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-docs/+bug/253244|Here]]</nowiki> is a Layout I've tried for the first time comments please. - davmor2
** davmor2 is preparing a wiki page for collaboration on a template for the layout. See <nowiki>[[Testing/Bug-Report-Layout]]</nowiki>.
** Usage of the term "Test Case" was brought up - see <nowiki>[[Testing/Cases]]</nowiki>.
* Bugs in backport packages. Which should the policy with those be? It is clearly written that those packages are unsupported. -- AraPulido
** Backport packages are community supported.
** The policy is to open a task against the backports project and then close any Ubuntu task once it's verified to only be in -backports.
* QA Liaison to Launchpad (LaserJock)
** LaserJock has created a wiki page concerning this. See <nowiki>[[JordanMantha/QALiaison]]</nowiki>. This item has been moved to mailing list discussion.
* <nowiki>[[http://www3.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/Research/FAUmachine/description.html|FAUMachine]]</nowiki> for installation testing (LaserJock)
** FAUMachine was brought up as a potentially useful tool for automated testing.
* Items not on Agenda
** A suggestion was made to improve inter-team linking (particularly on the wiki) between QA Team, BugSquad and Testing. 
*** Jon Packard is adding an item to <nowiki>[[QATeam/RoadMap]]</nowiki>.
*** LaserJock has created a header for QA Team wiki subpages linking to BugSquad and Testing.
*** The QA Portal is now online at http://qa.ubuntu.com and should help with this.
