{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by nuclearbob at 18:05:33 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-16-18.05.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous items

* Community Efforts/Testing

* Previous Actions
''LINK:'' https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/installation-guide/i386/minimum-hardware-reqts.html   (nuclearbob, 18:11:29)

* Community Efforts/Testing

* Automated/Systems Testing

* Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)

* Other Topics
''ACTION:'' gema to chair next meeting  (nuclearbob, 18:35:42)

Meeting ended at 18:36:09 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* gema to chair next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* gema
* * gema to chair next meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* nuclearbob (35)
* gema (12)
* meetingology (4)
* bdmurray (3)

=== Full Log ===

 18:05:33 <nuclearbob> #startmeeting

 18:05:33 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov 16 18:05:33 2011 UTC.  The chair is nuclearbob. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 18:05:33 <meetingology> 

 18:05:33 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:05:58 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Previous items

 18:06:35 <nuclearbob> the only action item last week was discuss the minimum memory requirements

 18:07:08 <nuclearbob> we've been discussing that at the sprint this week, but we haven't reached a conclusion

 18:07:23 <nuclearbob> moving on

 18:07:30 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 18:08:51 <nuclearbob> looks like I went too fast, rolling back

 18:08:56 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 18:09:15 <nuclearbob> we have a url for the minimum memory requirements provided by the dev team that we'll be testing against

 18:11:29 <nuclearbob> https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/installation-guide/i386/minimum-hardware-reqts.html

 18:11:45 <gema> basically, we will aim at validating whatever the minimum requirements are

 18:11:54 <gema> so that we are sure thing work in low memory conditions

 18:12:10 <gema> but we don't have a date yet as to when we will be able to start such testing

 18:12:38 <gema> ..

 18:12:42 <nuclearbob> all right

 18:12:52 <nuclearbob> any other previous actions before we move on?

 18:13:52 <nuclearbob> all right

 18:14:00 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 18:15:38 <nuclearbob> as we're defining the preferred test case format, we'll make sure to get that published so the community can submit test cases, but we don't have the format defined yet

 18:19:21 <nuclearbob> anybody else?

 18:19:55 <nuclearbob> moving on

 18:19:59 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 18:20:23 <nuclearbob> we're setting up a new lab this week for automated testing

 18:20:41 <nuclearbob> once it's running we'll be pushing test results to the public jenkins instance

 18:22:11 <nuclearbob> we'll have more of that available after it's setup

 18:23:06 <nuclearbob> anything else?

 18:24:47 <nuclearbob> all right

 18:24:50 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)

 18:27:23 <nuclearbob> any bug status updates this week?

 18:27:39 <bdmurray> I've nothing special to share today just one recommendation

 18:28:14 <bdmurray> With the recent release of 11.10 it'd be helpful if people were to go through and review bugs that've reported and ensure they are still relevant

 18:28:36 <bdmurray> For further details see http://www.murraytwins.com/blog/?p=110

 18:29:52 <nuclearbob> sounds good

 18:29:58 <nuclearbob> anything else from anybody?

 18:30:56 <nuclearbob> all right

 18:31:11 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Other Topics

 18:32:06 <gema> we are going to be improving the ubuntu QA wiki soon

 18:32:30 <gema> there has been a lot of improvements within QA and we are changing the way we do testing so we are going to try to reflect that on the wiki

 18:33:06 <gema> please, feel free to add/remove things as you see fit, we are going to try to get rid of obsolete info and put in the relevant information of what we are working on at the moment

 18:33:34 <gema> basically, all the things we spoke about at UDS need to be reflected there

 18:34:03 <gema> bdmurray: we'll need to talk about how to split the pure bug-centric info from the QA info

 18:34:17 <gema> so that everything flows nicely

 18:34:23 <gema> ..

 18:35:03 <nuclearbob> all right

 18:35:23 <nuclearbob> anyone want to chair next week?

 18:35:29 <gema> I can do

 18:35:33 <nuclearbob> super

 18:35:42 <nuclearbob> [ACTION] gema to chair next meeting

 18:35:42 * meetingology gema to chair next meeting

 18:36:06 <nuclearbob> thanks everybody

 18:36:09 <nuclearbob> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
