{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==
  
* SRU Testing -- jibel
   Over the past week 38 packages have been published to stable releases mainly security updates
** Lucid
**** A total of 21 packages have been published to lucid
**** 2 packages published to lucid-updates: deja-dup, ugene
**** 13 packages published to lucid-security: chromium-browser, chromium-codecs-ffmpeg, chromium-codecs-ffmpeg, firefox, gyp, libvpx, lxr-cvs, mountall, samba, seamonkey, seamonkey, thunderbird, xulrunner-1.9.2
**** 6 packages published to lucid-proposed: apt (2 times), chromium-browser, chromium-codecs-ffmpeg, eucalyptus, gwibber
** Karmic
**** A total of 6 packages have been published to karmic-security: firefox-3.5, lxr-cvs, samba, xulrunner-1.9.1, xulrunner-1.9.2, zope-ldapuserfolder
** Jaunty
**** A total of 7 packages have been published to jaunty-security: firefox-3.0, firefox-3.5, lxr-cvs, samba, xulrunner-1.9.1, xulrunner-1.9.2, zope-ldapuserfolder
** Hardy
**** A total of 3 packages have been published to hardy-security: firefox-3.0, samba, xulrunner-1.9.2
** Dapper
**** 1 package have been published to dapper-security: samba

* Bug Day status -- pedro_
** 1 bug day organized this week:
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100916|September 16th]]</nowiki> the target will be 'Brasero
** It is happening at #ubuntu-bugs.
** [ACTION] Pedro to organize a session on how to triage upgrade bugs next ubuntu dev week.
 
* Spec Status: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10.html

* Misc.: There was a call for the QA community to help proof and edit https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityContributePages

* Next meeting on September 22th at 17:00 UTC, Chair will be charlie-tca.

== Actions Recorded ==
* Pedro to organize a session on how to triage upgrade bugs next ubuntu dev week.

* charlie-tca to chair next meeting.

== Logs ==
<Mootbot-UK> Meeting started at 19:01. The chair is ameetp.
<Mootbot-UK> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [PROGRESS REPORT], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<hggdh> ~Ã´~
<ameetp> Welcome everyone to the welcome to the weekly QA meeting.
<ameetp> The agenda for today is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
<ameetp> Agenda:
<ameetp>     * review previous action items (all)
<ameetp>     * SRU testing -- jibel
<ameetp>     * Bug Day status -- pedro_
<ameetp>     * Maverick Work Items -- marjo
<ameetp>     * Selection of new chair -- ameetp
<ameetp> [Topic] Pending actions
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Pending actions
<ameetp> From last meeting pedro_ and jibel were going to schedule an "upgrade issues" bug day on September 14th.  Looks like this task is complete - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Planning.  pedro_ and jibel can you confirm?
<pedro_> i think there was only 1 pending item, the organization of the bug day for yesterday
<pedro_> ameetp, yeah we had that yesterday
<pedro_> so action done
<ameetp> pedro_: excellent!  thanks
<ameetp> moving on then
<ameetp> [Topic]  SRU testing -- jibel
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:   SRU testing -- jibel
<jibel> Hello all
<jibel> Over the past week 38 packages have been published to stable releases mainly security updates
<jibel> * A total of 21 packages have been published to lucid
<jibel>   * 2 packages published to lucid-updates: deja-dup, ugene
<jibel>   * 13 packages published to lucid-security: chromium-browser, chromium-codecs-ffmpeg, chromium-codecs-ffmpeg, firefox, gyp, libvpx, lxr-cvs, mountall, samba, seamonkey, seamonkey, thunderbird, xulrunner-1.9.2
<jibel>   * 6 packages published to lucid-proposed: apt (2 times), chromium-browser, chromium-codecs-ffmpeg, eucalyptus, gwibber
<jibel> * A total of 6 packages have been published to karmic-security: firefox-3.5, lxr-cvs, samba, xulrunner-1.9.1, xulrunner-1.9.2, zope-ldapuserfolder
<jibel> * A total of 7 packages have been published to jaunty-security: firefox-3.0, firefox-3.5, lxr-cvs, samba, xulrunner-1.9.1, xulrunner-1.9.2, zope-ldapuserfolder
<jibel> * A total of 3 packages have been published to hardy-security: firefox-3.0, samba, xulrunner-1.9.2
<jibel> * 1 package have been published to dapper-security: samba
<jibel> Thanks to Anton Altaparmakov, aslam karachiwala, Francisco Cribari, darren, David Thomas, Earl Malmrose, Fabrice Coutadeur, Xvani, geraldo, Guilo, Harald, Isa, Jeremy Visser (jayvee), Michael Kibat, Lukian (Lukian), Lauri Kainulainen,
<jibel> Anouar Mansour (Hankyone), Marcelo Escobal, Neil Soman (cerealkillr), Maciej Niewiadomski, papukaija, PseHouri, psypher, Richard85, Adrienne, Scott Ritchie (YokoZar), Michael Elkins (scandal), Sven Eckelmann (Lazhur_), aanno, tnf, Tory, Trent J,
<jibel> Uli Tillich, Don Thompson, Antoine and wilfred_com for testing packages in -proposed.
<jibel> As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!
<jibel> any question/comment about SRUs ?
<ameetp> going once...
<ameetp> twice...
<cr3> zope-ldapuserfolder, crazy stuff! I'll have to check it out
<marjo> ameetp: way to crack the meeting whip!
<cr3> whip it, whip it good
<ameetp> alright.  jibel thank you!!
<pedro_> lol
<ameetp> [Topic] Bug Day status -- pedro_
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Bug Day status -- pedro_
<pedro_> Hola, so last Thursday we had a bug day for Apt which was organized with help of charlie-tca
<pedro_> the participation was good, 99 bugs were triaged that day
<pedro_> Thanks a lot to our rocking contributors: kamusin, charlie-tca, vish, adam-collard, devildante, ris and yofel
<pedro_> per the action item of previous meeting we ran a bug day for upgrades yesterday
<pedro_> but looks like we didn't have a lot of participation
<pedro_> not sure why, jibel do you have any thoughts on that?
<jibel> because it was organized on a tuesday ?
<ara> I guess upgrade bugs are a bit harder to triage?
<charlie-tca> +1
<ara> jibel, wouldn't you like to organize a session on how to triage upgrade bugs next ubuntu dev week?
<pedro_> yeah i think you're both right
<pedro_> ara, that'd be awesome to have, jibel please please please ?
<jibel> ara, I think you are right. but the u-m bugs only needed to be confirmed or reproduced
<charlie-tca> I think many think of doing installs to reproduce an "upgrade"
<ara> jibel, but, how do you reproduce a bug that might involve having a strange combination of packages?
* ara is talking without knowing much, just to start the conversation
<pedro_> charlie-tca, yeah but i thought we were going to have more participation due that the previous was about apt which is totally connected to u-m/n
<jibel> The bugs list was about failures in maverick.
<jibel> so no really combination of packages.
<pedro_> ok let's try to fix that for the next time :-)
<ameetp> pedro_, jibel:  do you want an action item to "organize a session on how to triage upgrade bugs next ubuntu dev week"?
<jibel> for example we see from that list that fglrx, blcr, and other kernel modules doesn't build in maverick.
<charlie-tca> I don't think the list was looked at, tbh. People think of upgrade as meaning they have to install an old version first. We need to explain better, maybe?
<pedro_> ameetp, that'd be nice to have , yes please
<ameetp> based on charlie-tca comments maybe we need more education on this..
<pedro_> charlie-tca, agreed
<ameetp> [ACTION]  "organize a session on how to triage upgrade bugs next ubuntu dev week"
<Mootbot-UK> ACTION received:   "organize a session on how to triage upgrade bugs next ubuntu dev week"
<pedro_> alright since tomorrow is Thursday, we have another bug day planned
<pedro_> which was also proposed by charlie-tca, the target for tomorrow is Brasero
<pedro_>  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100916
<pedro_> there's plenty of bugs waiting to be triaged so if you have some time and want to learn more about bug triage and Brasero, please join us tomorrow at #ubuntu-bugs
<pedro_> if you don't have too much time to participate but you'd like to do some testing, please help us to test the latest Brasero on Maverick
<pedro_> and file bugs if the application is not working correctly for you
<ameetp> thanks pedro_!  Anything else for us?
<pedro_> ameetp, that's all from here unless there's a question/comment
<bladernr_> Seems to me brasero bugs will also require a media investment
<bladernr_> all the bugs I ever filed against it were due to burn failures :(
* Hoaas (~hoaas@84-16-209.201.3p.ntebredband.no) has joined #ubuntu-quality
<ara> bladernr_, some of them are related to the interface or file management, so you can collaborate without expending a CD
<bladernr_> ara:  ack... just commenting on my own experience
<ameetp> ara: good point
<ameetp> bladernr_: thanks.  we'll keep that in mind during testing
<ameetp> any other comments/questions for pedro_?
<ameetp> going once...
<ameetp> twice...
<ara> 500$!!
<ameetp> alright, [Topic] Maverick Work Items -- marjo
<marjo> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10.html
<Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10.html
<marjo> nice looking burn-down chart; lots of green above the line and red below the line!
<ameetp> \o/
<marjo>  nice looking burn-down chart; lots of green above the line and red below the line!
* davmor2 has quit (Quit: I'm outta here)
<pedro_> great work everybody :-)
<marjo> it would look even better if the burndown line was set to 38 initially
<marjo> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/qa-maverick-automated-server-testing
<marjo> hggdh will focus on finishing the last two remaining test cases
<marjo> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/qa-maverick-bugsquad-roadmap
<marjo> pedro has postponed the update / make a new reporting bugs video to next release when we'll know what would make for better information
<marjo> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/qa-maverick-improving-communication
<marjo> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/qa-maverick-mago-daily
<marjo> ara is making good progress on both
<marjo> any questions? otherwise, looking good for release!
<marjo> ameetp: that's all from me
<ameetp> thanks marjo!
<skaet> marjo,
<marjo> hi skaet
<skaet> just a heads up lots of churn today on the X/mesa front.
<marjo> skaet: yes, as expected
<skaet> cool.
<ameetp> skaet:  Thanks for the FYI.  Anyone else have questions/comments for marjo?
<marjo> we went through a similar experience after the move to mesa 7.6
<ameetp> okay then
<ara> skaet, do we have a bug number?
<skaet> good to know.
<ara> skaet, I have been hearing all day about the "white screen of death" mixing intel & unity, but I haven't heard of a bug number
* ara asks at ubuntu-x
<skaet> ara,   lots of them.  will get them in background
<ara> skaet, OK
<marjo> skaet: fyi, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Mesa7.6
<skaet> last I saw there was a workaround for the "white screen of death",  but its pretty active right now on the #ubuntu-x channel.
<ameetp> skaet:  sounds good.  I'll move up.  Just chime in with the bug number(s) 
<ameetp> anything else... going once.
<ameetp> twice
<skaet> ammetp,  ack.
<ameetp> [Topic] Misc. Items - anything people want to discuss
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Misc. Items - anything people want to discuss
<fader> o/
<skaet> ara,  white screen bug is 638808
<ameetp> fader: go ahead
<fader> I want to mention something that cjohnston was asking about (and posted to the mailing list)
<fader> Specifically https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityContributePages
<cjohnston> o/
<fader> ara has offered to fill out some of the tester info but I'm sure she wouldn't object to help
<fader> :)
<ara> fader, I already posted it, but any review is more than welcome
<fader> And I think there may be some other areas on that wiki page that the QA community might want to provide input on
<ara> and everyone, feel free to edit
* brianchidester has quit (Quit: Ex-Chat)
<fader> ara: You're fast! :)
<cjohnston> thanks ara !
<fader> That's it from me.
<ara> fader, bits missing: the picture (working on it, thanks to bladernr_) and the "specific case"
* Hoaas (~hoaas@84-16-209.201.3p.ntebredband.no) has left #ubuntu-quality
<ara> but I have seen that the other sections haven't fill that either
<ara> cjohnston, is something that are you requesting? or finally is going to be out=
<ara> ?
<ara> reviews welcome: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityContributePages#Testers
<cjohnston> I have sent emails to all ML's that haven't yet filled theirs out.. Hoping to get the rest done, and then get everything put into place
<ara> cjohnston, thanks for organizing this
<ameetp> cjohnston, ara: thanks for starting this process
<cjohnston> :-) thanks for helping
<marjo> cjohnston: thanks for organizing this
<ameetp> any other topics?
<skaet> maverick x related bugs:  602899, 607490, 625239, 628077, 633593
<ara> skaet, thanks
<ameetp> fader: we should double check that we don't need to add "pcert" tag to those bugs
<ameetp> alright.  Looks like there are no other Misc. topics
<ameetp> going once...
<ameetp> twice...
<marjo> ameetp: good idea
<ameetp> alright, our favorite topic [Topic] select a new chair
<charlie-tca> I will... learning by doing.
<marjo> charlie-tca: thx!
<bladernr_> wow that was fast
<charlie-tca> You are welcome
<ameetp> charlie-tca thanks!!
<charlie-tca> You are welcome
<marjo> bladernr_ please note that as an example of volunteerism
* fader high fives charlie-tca.
<ameetp> that was fast.  Well, all of you have been a great audience
<bladernr_> marjo:  I'm old enough to know better about volunteering
<ameetp> I will end the meeting...
<ameetp> #endmeeting
