{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Agenda:

*** UbuntuBugDay highlights.
*** April Ubuntu Bug Days, it was proposed to freeze them since the release is coming out that month.
*** New bug control members! -- bdmurray
*** Next Testing day topic & highlights from last UTD
*** lp-upstreaming tool - Jorge Castro sent an email asking for testing.
*** debconf questions that use a check box? -- bdmurray
*** Improving the information flow between bugsquad and developers (ref Colin's blog post) -- heno
**** Straw man suggestion - we hold a meeting for bug control where we consider greater specialisation, i.e. adopting packages. 
