{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:bug-statistics
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Identify bug statistics that will be useful to the Ubuntu team during the cycle to drive quality improvements and assist during release periods. Automate the gathering and dissemination of these stats.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Agenda:

* What stats do we want?
** Useful categories and states of bugs
** http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/complete-graphs
** we have stats on bug statuses and bug importance but not both
** should they be additive?
** insert events into the graph, milestone happened, hug days, people dedicated to QA
*** the insertion of events should be easy
** the reports at http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/reports/ should also generate numbers
** Derived values (time in New state, time to closed, etc.)
** oldest untriaged bug report
** time for a bug in a particular state
** oldest In Progress bug reports
** turn over time for state change in a bug report
*** uncertain how to do this as the activity log is incomplete
*** however the ubuntu-bugs mailing list could be a good source of data as it has state changes
** plot the number of contributors compared to the number of bugs and the quantity of packages
** look at team based statistics i.e. the desktop team
** bdmurray to flip desktop team to use bugnumbers --stats --closed
** plot the number of contributors to the number of bugs
* Maintaining scripts:
** where do they run and how can people contribute?
** transition from p-l-b to XML-RPC; when and how?
** dependent upon an XML-RPC interface to Launchpad the +text information is an interim step
* Displaying bug stats - how should the results be presented
** Should we move on from the current tabbed display, which has various layout limitations
** Yes, the tabbed layout will not hold the 9 bug statuses
** Consider providing the data separate from the layout as an XML feed (is RSS or similar suitable?)
** the raw data could / should be provided as an RSS feed for others to design tools for displaying information
* clickable bug graphs that go to a query in Launchpad
* easily discernable urls for the graphs
* backfilling data for the complete-stats
* e-mail devel mailing list regarding bugs with most duplicates / subscribers so they don't have to go look for them
Current QA-Website stats module TODO List (copy/paste from the todolist):
* We'll have a list of all bug statistics available on /qastats
* Clicking on them will show a statistic summary (default is the weekly stats)
* The user can use the top-right corner tabs to select another timeframe (daily, monthly, yearly, ...)
* The stats will be updated every hour
* Some additional information about bugs or packages can be fetched from LP using our current lp-integration script (using p-l-b or XML-RPC)

----
CategorySpec
