{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by balloons at 17:04:27 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-02-15-17.04.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions
''ACTION:'' phillw to provide draft on wiki updates to activities and automated testing pages  (balloons, 17:13:06)

* Ubuntu Updates

* Ubuntu Flavor Updates

* Blueprint updates / discussion

* Other topics

Meeting ended at 17:53:44 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* phillw to provide draft on wiki updates to activities and automated testing pages

=== Action items, by person ===

* phillw
* * phillw to provide draft on wiki updates to activities and automated testing pages

=== People present (lines said) ===

* balloons (78)
* charlie-tca (22)
* Riddell (12)
* phillw (8)
* albrigha (7)
* meetingology (4)
* stgraber (1)

=== Full Log ===

 17:04:27 <balloons> #startmeeting Ubuntu QA

 17:04:27 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Feb 15 17:04:27 2012 UTC.  The chair is balloons. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 17:04:27 <meetingology> 

 17:04:27 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:04:51 <balloons> I'll go ahead and ask for a brief roll call, while I grab the agenda :-)

 17:05:03 <albrigha> o/

 17:05:06 * charlie-tca here

 17:05:25 <phillw> o/

 17:06:00 <balloons> hello everyone

 17:06:05 <balloons> first item on the agenda

 17:06:27 <balloons> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 17:06:36 * balloons phillw to update wiki to better reflect activities and automated testing pages

 17:06:54 <balloons> phillw, any updates on this?

 17:06:55 <phillw> I've had a dig around, and the main source of information seems to be https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-automated-test-submissions does anyone know of any other infornmation?

 17:07:59 <phillw> I apologise, life has been a little hectic of late. I will ask on the mailing list / search archives etc. to try and garner further information this week.

 17:09:51 <balloons> no worries phillw.. Happy to have you working on it

 17:10:39 <balloons> i believe the idea was to change up the wiki page a bit to give more light to the activities link

 17:11:38 <phillw> Hopefully with feature freeze imminent, things will quieten down a bit.

 17:11:54 <balloons> yes.. this week has been quite busy

 17:12:01 <balloons> and the work previous

 17:12:02 <balloons> :-)

 17:12:15 <phillw> I'll have a draft up before the next meeting and circualte it.

 17:12:23 <balloons> so for instance on this page, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam, the activities is still buried as a link

 17:12:33 <balloons> sounds great..

 17:13:06 <balloons> [ACTION] phillw to provide draft on wiki updates to activities and automated testing pages

 17:13:06 * meetingology phillw to provide draft on wiki updates to activities and automated testing pages

 17:13:12 <balloons> ok, moving along

 17:13:45 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Updates

 17:14:13 <balloons> ok, Lucid ISO testing for 10.04.4 is going on today.. I know everyone is busy busy

 17:14:44 <balloons> I have been as hammered as everyone else, but I plan to do so testing this afternoon on those isos

 17:15:05 <balloons> not sure if jibel wants to say anything more.. he's likely knee-deep right now

 17:15:36 <charlie-tca> o/

 17:15:54 <balloons> go ahead charlie-tca

 17:16:37 <charlie-tca> I am testing Kubuntu, and that could use any help we can get. I think 10.04.4 is Kubuntu and Ubuntu only, isn't it?

 17:16:59 <charlie-tca> Ubuntu is looking pretty good, but nothing is done yet for Kubuntu

 17:17:01 <charlie-tca> ..

 17:17:06 <balloons> charlie-tca, yes it should be only those 2

 17:17:24 <balloons> I know ScottK was asking for help as well.. I'll do some kubuntu isos :-)

 17:17:52 <balloons> if anyone else has a spare moment, they would greatly appreciate it

 17:18:25 <balloons> the other update for ubuntu is feature freeze as phillw mentioned, and it affects everyone. Lots of calls for testing have gone out this week and last in preparation for it

 17:18:56 <balloons> i'll talk more about those "calls for testing" at the end.. I wanted to get some feedback from everyone

 17:19:08 <balloons> any questions?

 17:19:10 <Riddell> thanks balloons

 17:19:43 <balloons> k, let's move on to the flavors! :-)

 17:19:48 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Flavor Updates

 17:19:52 <balloons> yvw Riddell

 17:20:20 <balloons> Riddell, since your here.. anything additional to share on Kubuntu?

 17:20:38 <Riddell> umm, what's the meeting?

 17:21:14 <balloons> :-) this is for the QA team

 17:21:15 <Riddell> QA?

 17:21:19 <balloons> yep yep

 17:21:36 <Riddell> I just put telepathy-kde on the CD, that needs testing to decide if it's better or worse than (unmaintained) kopete

 17:22:05 <Riddell> owncloud could do with some testing (come to #kubuntu-devel to try it out with music streaming!)

 17:22:36 <Riddell> we hope to get kubuntu-active CDs being made soon, that'll be i386 simple live sessions test, not install

 17:22:57 <Riddell> means we'd be the first distro with a tablet edition I think

 17:23:50 <balloons> kubuntu-active?

 17:23:51 <Riddell> and of course kubuntu isn't going to be supported by canonical any more so we'll need to consider how that affects QA in future

 17:24:17 <balloons> Riddell, any plans to change up how qa works in kubuntu?

 17:24:18 <Riddell> kubuntu-active is a proposed remix of kubuntu with plasma active, the tablet UI http://www.plasma-active.org/

 17:24:28 <Riddell> we have no plans yet

 17:24:56 <balloons> ahh.. ok, plasma-active is neat.. will be interesting to see where that goes

 17:25:10 <balloons> ok.. anything else to update or questions for kubuntu?

 17:25:58 <Riddell> that's all

 17:26:22 <balloons> thanks Riddell

 17:26:34 <balloons> phillw, can you update us on lubuntu?

 17:27:35 <phillw> usual hectic stuff, the alternate iso's are still over-sized but that is being worked on. We seem now to have enough people interested for Power PC testing to happen. As such I created https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing/PPC

 17:28:33 <phillw> If anyone is familiar with adding the ppc emulation in qemu (KVM), please do give a hint!

 17:29:01 <phillw> that's about it from lubuntu.

 17:29:50 <balloons> thanks phillw -- I saw the thread about messing about with qemu -- I hadn't used qemu in awhile. back in the days of qemu and kqemu :-)

 17:30:29 <balloons> how about xubuntu?

 17:30:45 <charlie-tca> We seem to be in pretty good shape

 17:30:55 <charlie-tca> all images are at least working, even if they are oversize.

 17:31:15 <charlie-tca> The oversize is expected at least until after Feature Freeze, when Ubuntu quits adding things

 17:31:46 <charlie-tca> We are trying to keep up with daily testing as much as possible.

 17:32:04 <charlie-tca> I am hopeless when it comes to automating the testing for Xubuntu.

 17:32:05 <charlie-tca> ..

 17:33:01 <balloons> charlie-tca, on the automation piece, do you feel xubuntu could piggyback onto the tools ubuntu uses / plans to use?

 17:33:20 <balloons> err.. well is xfce moving to gtk3?

 17:33:20 <charlie-tca> I can't. I don't have the background to figure out how to do it

 17:33:53 <charlie-tca> Xfce won't move to gtk3 until 4.10, so we will have both gtk2 and gtk3 until then, probably Xubuntu 12.10

 17:35:15 <balloons> ok.. no 4.10 in plans for precise (I don't think it releases to almost after precise :-) )

 17:35:24 <charlie-tca> The chances of Xfce 4.10 coming out in time for precise are slim]

 17:35:31 <balloons> ok, but they are moving.. I would assume then it might be possible

 17:35:37 <charlie-tca> We keep hoping, though.

 17:35:40 <balloons> something to think aboue

 17:36:16 <balloons> alright, how about ubuntu studio?

 17:36:31 <balloons> astraljava or  anyone else about?

 17:38:23 <balloons> alright moving on.. edubuntu.. any updateS/

 17:38:29 <balloons> stgraber, or highvoltage ?

 17:38:46 <stgraber> nothing for edubuntu

 17:39:01 <balloons> thanks :-)

 17:39:04 <balloons> ok, moving topics

 17:39:11 <balloons> [TOPIC] Blueprint updates / discussion

 17:39:22 <balloons> anyone want to discuss anything from the blueprints?

 17:39:32 <balloons> or give an update, request help, etc?

 17:39:59 <balloons> going once, twice..

 17:40:05 <balloons> sold, and moving on :-)

 17:40:11 <balloons> [TOPIC] Other topics

 17:40:27 <balloons> Ok, last on the agenda.. anyone have anything to add before we get into these final topics?

 17:40:32 <balloons> i'll add you to the list right now :-)

 17:41:25 <balloons> ok, let's start then

 17:41:30 <balloons> first up is Lucid ISO Testing Updates

 17:42:22 <balloons> I gave them for ubuntu, and the kubuntu guys have spoken about them for kubuntu.. if you can, please help test.. Riddell, if someone wants to help test kubuntu lucid 10.04.4 isos, is there an irc channel to hang out in?

 17:43:11 <Riddell> welcome in #kubuntu-devel

 17:43:29 <balloons> awesome, thanks

 17:44:38 <balloons> next I wanted to speak about my "Calls for Testing" that have gone out.. these calls are still a work in progress, but I was hoping to get feedback from everyone if they felt they were helpful and they liked the format of them or not, etc

 17:45:33 <balloons> any comments are appreciated if you got them ;-) I want to get more / better tools and metrics around doing this manual testing and I would take ideas on that as well.. both what we can do in the short-term as well as long-term

 17:45:36 <charlie-tca> o/

 17:45:56 <balloons> go ahead charlie-tca

 17:46:17 <charlie-tca> I think the wording of the last three or four was great. I also like the fact that you are explaining the issues involved in messing up the install on your blog entries.

 17:46:48 <charlie-tca> Letting people know if they do the test, they may have to reinstall to get back to where they were is always a good idea.

 17:47:03 <charlie-tca> and thanks for your patience in explaining things.

 17:47:16 <charlie-tca> .

 17:47:17 <charlie-tca> ..

 17:47:51 <balloons> charlie-tca, thanks for the feedback.. glad it's coming across as making sense

 17:48:30 <charlie-tca> I usually try to see what the new people will be seeing. It is making good sense at this time.

 17:48:59 <balloons> excellent to hear :-)

 17:49:13 <balloons> we're pushing our time, so I'll move on to the last item

 17:49:14 <balloons> Manual TestCase Review Updates

 17:49:21 <balloons> albrigha, I'll let you speak a bit :-)

 17:49:32 <albrigha> Hello!

 17:49:43 <albrigha> well I completed copying over the wiki test cases to the test case spreadsheet

 17:50:09 <albrigha> hopefully that will help on reworking them. otherwise I haven't done much more with them

 17:50:22 <albrigha> there was some debating on updating them, etc. and i'm rather distracted with another project >_<

 17:50:55 <albrigha> here is the spreadsheet document if others don't have it: https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AgtV30nnv18edFQzNVB4S2duOWNOT05zaHo3S0pNekE&hl=en_US#gid=0

 17:51:30 <albrigha> i learned a lot while copying them over however, right now there isn't a lot of consistency

 17:52:07 <balloons> i have been attempting to push out and get in any rewrites as quickly as possible. we've had a couple edits directly on the wiki as well.. some new tests for shotwell which never existed, etc

 17:52:34 <balloons> so work is continuing and I appreciate all the work that has been done. we'll get there :-)

 17:52:40 <balloons> thanks albrigha

 17:52:49 <balloons> anything else from anyone? questions / comments?

 17:53:27 <balloons> if not, let's call this meeting a wrap. Thanks for attending everyone. Hopefully the coming weeks will find all of us just a bit less busy! ;-)

 17:53:44 <balloons> #endmeeting
