{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:karmic-qa-daily-desktop-testing
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Add desktop tests to the daily hardware testing schedule on laptops and netbooks. 

=== Rationale ===
The automated desktop testing framework and suites allows us to repeat a large volume of UI tests on a regular bases. Integrating these tests into the existing checkbox-based hardware certification testing setup will allow us to take advantage of it's schedule and results reporting system. Ubuntu's quality will greatly increase if we regularly run automated desktop tests.

=== Use Cases/Requirements ===
* Run all automated desktop test suites every day on a daily (installed) image.
* Run all automated  desktop test suites every day on live CD.

=== Design ===
* The implementation will rely on Checkbox.
* It will use the certification website for reporting test results.
* There will be a method of tagging certain tests as hardware dependent, this will assure the tests are run on relevant target machines, and not on incompatible hardware or virtualized targets.
* The solution will be usable on both physical and virtual hardware, and will take advantages of the strengths of both:
** PXE boot on hardware.
** ISO loopback on VMs.
** Snapshot mode it VMs.
** Quick ghosting.

=== Implementation ===
* The checkbox certification plugin set will be expanded to include a Ubuntu Desktop Testing (UDT) plugin that will execute the whole gamut of included automated test suites.
* A Ubiquity suite will be authored for automating install tests.
* Parallelizing test execution in a cloud will be investigated, and perhaps implemented.
* The image will remain pristine as much as possible, the test harness will be executed from a working directory with all dependencies being local.
* A boot parameter will be required to run tests directly on a Live CD.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===
The tests will be tested once the tests are run on a regular testing schedule, and the test results will be displayed in a human-readable fashion on the current hardware test website.

=== Unresolved issues ===
The Live CD needs a boot option for executing a command on startup.

=== Future work ===

* Parallelize test suites across multiple targets to reduce test duration, perhaps with cloud-like elasticity.
* Run Ubiquity installation from a live CD.

=== Action Items ===
* determine 1-2 duplicate machines that can be removed from the PPA pool and used as permanent VM hosts (Ronald)
** coordinate with Eitan
* talk to installer team and find out best way to get LiveCD tests to execute (Marc)

----
CategorySpec
