{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Agenda - 2008-07-09 ====

** Intrepid Alpha 2 testing this week
** Package status prototype - feedback welcome
** Ubuntu QA team update/proposal (LaserJock)
** Do we need a #ubuntu-qa channel? (LaserJock)
** Next week's meeting - suggestion: an in person meeting at the London sprint combined phone or skype for those who are not there at 14.00 UTC

(agenda items mildly reordered from actual discussion order)

Meeting Log: <nowiki>[[MeetingLogs/QATeam/20080709]]</nowiki>

=== Intrepid Alpha 2 testing this week ===

This is an early alpha in the Intrepid release cycle, so testing
thoroughness is expected to be light. According to slangasek, desktop
images are not quite usable yet, due to various issues, and may not be
ready for the 2008-07-10 release deadline. Testing of alternative isos
to commence, as well as desktop images should functional ones appear.

slangasek also pointed out that nvidia-glx-new is uninstallable on
the alternates because of the X changes, so that's a bug to highlight
for testers.

** ACTION: sbeattie to update iso.qa.ubuntu.com to point to alpha 2 images. (ed: completed)

=== Package status prototype - feedback welcome ===

Prototype page, developed by ogasawara:

** http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/pkg-stats/openoffice.org.html

Very positive in-meeting responses. Some suggestions mentioned so far:

** more developer oriented information (links to Ubuntu/Debian changelogs, Ubuntu/Debian versions, links to package LP page and Debian PTS/BTS pages) (LaserJock) though should probably be separated a little from the bug statistics.
** breakdowns by release, e.g. being able to see stats for LTS vs. development
** ability to do historical comparisons; e.g compare weekly graphs with weekly graphs from six months ago

More feedback is welcome and encouraged, please add to:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Specs/PackageStatusPages/Feedback

=== Ubuntu QA team update/proposal ===

LaserJock (Jordan Mantha) had proposed last week creating an Ubuntu QA
team formally in Launchpad, but met resistance due to belief that it was
not inclusive enough to non-developers integral to the QA process. He
created a wiki page to better explain his thinking at:

** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JordanMantha/UbuntuQA

Brief overview: proposed team is intended to focus is on developing tools,
policies, and practices for QA as well as providing general advice,
oversight, and leadership of QA activities. He's gone ahead and created
the team:

** https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-qa/

So far, team has 7 willing victims, er, members; more are expected
to join. Also, pulling in and collaborating on QA oriented tool
development is hoped for; there are already several bzr branches now
associated with the team.

Fleshing out details to occur in discussion on ubuntu-qa@ email list.

** ACTION: LaserJock to initiate discussion
** ACTION: LaserJock and others to update wiki pages for consistency

An ancilliary discussion arose as to how to motivate and reward people
participating more casually in the QA effort, to encourage deeper and
stronger commitment and participation. Suggestions from bryce and heno
to contact existing triagers and people who had recently set up bug
days and ask what motivates them and attempt to maximize that, as well
as minimize inhibitors to participating.

=== Do we need a #ubuntu-qa channel? ===

Along with a more visible, formalized QA team, a proposal was put forth by
LaserJock to create a matching irc channel. Unfortunately, the irc space
floated (nobody seemed interested in moving the entire QA team to Qatar).

A secondary proposal was made to split off a separate channel
approved of.

** ACTION: LaserJock to create and register #ubuntu-quality (ed: completed)
** ACTION: stgraber to create and register #ubuntu-brainstorm (ed: completed)

=== Schedule for next week's meeting ===

Next week's meeting will be next Wednesday at 14.00 UTC (normal time is
17.00 UTC). It will consist of an in person meeting at the London sprint
combined phone or skype for those who are not there.

Proposals to use ekiga or mumble instead of skype, due to skype's
5-8 person limit on conference calls. Regular old phone is a fallback
alternative.

** ACTION: heno and cgregan to test an ekiga setup between London and
    Lexington offices.

Thanks to all who attended!
