{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by nuclearbob at 17:05:01 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-10-05-17.05.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions

* Community Efforts/Testing
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/OneiricBeta2TestReport   (nuclearbob, 17:10:59)

* Automated/Systems Testing

* Engineering Team Bug Status

* Other Topics

* Chair Selection
''ACTION:'' pedto_ to chair next meeting  (nuclearbob, 17:25:20)
''ACTION:'' pedr\o_ to chair next meeting  (nuclearbob, 17:25:26)
''ACTION:'' pedro_ to chair next meeting  (nuclearbob, 17:25:31)

Meeting ended at 17:26:12 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* pedto_ to chair next meeting
* pedr\o_ to chair next meeting
* pedro_ to chair next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* pedro_
* * pedro_ to chair next meeting
* **UNASSIGNED**
* * pedto_ to chair next meeting
* * pedr\o_ to chair next meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* nuclearbob (38)
* Ursinha (9)
* pedro_ (8)
* meetingology` (6)

=== Full Log ===

 17:05:01 <nuclearbob> #startmeeting

 17:05:01 <meetingology`> Meeting started Wed Oct  5 17:05:01 2011 UTC.  The chair is nuclearbob. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 17:05:01 <meetingology`> 

 17:05:01 <meetingology`> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:05:14 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 17:05:29 <nuclearbob> only previous action I have is nuclearbob chairing the next meeting, so I think we can check that off

 17:05:57 <nuclearbob> if there's nothing else, we'll proceed to the next topic

 17:07:08 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 17:08:01 <nuclearbob> jibel, anything on this?

 17:08:24 <Ursinha> nuclearbob, I'm here!

 17:08:38 <nuclearbob> groovy

 17:09:03 <nuclearbob> got anything on community efforts/testing?

 17:09:32 <Ursinha> not me

 17:09:40 <nuclearbob> all right

 17:10:04 <nuclearbob> I guess we're counting down to the Oneiric release at this point

 17:10:58 <nuclearbob> the last report on that seems to be the same one we had last week:

 17:10:59 <nuclearbob> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/OneiricBeta2TestReport

 17:11:22 <nuclearbob> If nobody else has anything on that, we can move to the next topic

 17:12:17 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 17:12:58 <nuclearbob> still doing qrt over here, I'll try to get that blueprint registered this week

 17:13:29 <nuclearbob> I'll bring some proposals for dependency specification on different releases to UDS so we can determine the best way to move forward

 17:14:04 <nuclearbob> jibel had a pretty boot speed chart for us last week, anything new this week on the automation front?

 17:16:45 <nuclearbob> sounds like not, so we'll move on

 17:16:52 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status

 17:17:34 * Ursinha has nothing to report, was on holidays

 17:17:39 <nuclearbob> hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, or bdummary, do any of you have anything here?

 17:17:43 <Ursinha> ..

 17:18:24 <pedro_> nope nothing from here

 17:18:25 <pedro_> ..

 17:18:57 <Ursinha> bdmurray, ^

 17:19:15 <nuclearbob> derp

 17:19:32 <Ursinha> :P

 17:21:03 <nuclearbob> sounds like nothing earthshaking to report

 17:21:22 <nuclearbob> so let's move on

 17:21:29 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Other Topics

 17:23:36 <nuclearbob> doesn't seem like we have any other topics

 17:23:59 <Ursinha> the quietest meeting ever

 17:24:26 <nuclearbob> I guess we can move to the next topic

 17:24:32 <nuclearbob> [TOPIC] Chair Selection

 17:24:38 <pedro_> I can do that

 17:24:48 <nuclearbob> select the chair, or chair?

 17:24:58 <pedro_> chair the next meeting

 17:25:00 <Ursinha> :P

 17:25:01 <nuclearbob> all right

 17:25:06 <pedro_> is about time i guess :-)

 17:25:20 <nuclearbob> #action pedto_ to chair next meeting

 17:25:20 * meetingology` pedto_ to chair next meeting

 17:25:22 <nuclearbob> er

 17:25:26 <nuclearbob> #action pedr\o_ to chair next meeting

 17:25:26 * meetingology` pedr\o_ to chair next meeting

 17:25:28 <nuclearbob> dangit

 17:25:28 <pedro_> cool so not me :-)

 17:25:31 <nuclearbob> #action pedro_ to chair next meeting

 17:25:31 * meetingology` pedro_ to chair next meeting

 17:25:34 <pedro_> darn

 17:25:37 <nuclearbob> I need a smaller enter key

 17:25:42 <pedro_> lol

 17:25:58 <nuclearbob> anyway, I think that wraps it up for this week

 17:26:00 <nuclearbob> thanks everybody

 17:26:07 <Ursinha> thanks nuclearbob for chairing :)

 17:26:12 <nuclearbob> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
