{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes the tools that are currently available to use for different testing activities in Ubuntu. 

== Test Automation Tools ==

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/utah|Ubuntu Test Automation Harness (UTAH)]]</nowiki>. Documentation available on http://utah.readthedocs.org/en/latest/. 

== Test Analysis Tools ==

* A good tool for '''Finite State Machine''' test analysis is <nowiki>[[http://qfsm.sourceforge.net/|Qfsm]]</nowiki>. This tool is useful not only to draw the state machine diagram, but also for generating automatically the transition table. This construct is very useful when analyzing GUIs for testing.  
* For <nowiki>[[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.83.9731&rep=rep1&type=pdf|Classification Tree Method]]</nowiki> and Analysis, a very good tool is <nowiki>[[http://www.berner-mattner.com/en/berner-mattner-home/products/cte/cte-xl/index-cte-xl.html|CTE XL]]</nowiki>. ''CTE XL'' is a commercial tool but there is a version available to download for free, it requires registration and a license is sent to be able to activate it. ''CTE XL'' is a java application with a Windows installer, so Wine is necessary to install the application. Once installed, the application won't work if run from Wine, so please use a java command to start it: 
1. cd .wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/CTE\ XL\ ???
2. java -jar cte.jar
