{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==

=== SRU Report ===
* Over the past week 63 packages have been published to stable releases
* The complete list is available at http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html

=== Burndown ===

* Natty Beta-1 Work Items
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-qa-n-testing-different-architectures
** jibel done with cleanup of subscribers list
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa
** hggdh still blocked due to lack of working UEC tools since after Alpha 2.
** Blocked on Critical bug 717166
* Remaining Natty Work Items
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html
** Contact documentation team for help: DONE
** [brian-murray] Dashboard prototype creation: INPROGRESS
** All other work items are on track

=== Any Other Business ===

* marjo announced that he is leaving Canonical as the Ubuntu QA team manager. In the interim, Pete Graner, pgraner will be the acting manager.

=== Selection of new chair ===
* patrickmw volunteered to chair the meeting on 2011-04-06 at 18:00 UTC.

== Log ==

== Meeting opened by charlie-tca at 16:59 ==
* '''''' waves

 <''''''> The agenda for the QA team meeting is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

 <''''''> [TOPIC] review previous action items

=== review previous action items ===
 <''''''> I don t believe there are any old items to discuss

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU Report

=== SRU Report ===
 <''''''> jibel: your floor

 <''''''> thanks charlie-tca

 <''''''> hi all

 <''''''> Over the past week 63 packages have been published to stable releases

 <''''''> The complete list is available at

 <''''''> [LINK] http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html''
|}

 <''''''> * A total of 22 packages have been published to maverick

 <''''''>   * 10 packages published to maverick-updates: dbus, emacs23, gnome-screensaver, linux-firmware, mpd, octave3.2, software-center, transmission, ubuntuone-client, vsftpd

 <''''''>   * 11 packages published to maverick-security: firefox, flashplugin-nonfree, libvirt, linux-meta-mvl-dove, linux-mvl-dove, loggerhead, quagga, subversion, tomcat6, vsftpd, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''>   * linux-ti-omap4 published to maverick-proposed

 <''''''> * A total of 16 packages have been published to lucid

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to lucid-updates: dbus, emacs23, gnome-screensaver, openssh

 <''''''>   * 11 packages published to lucid-security: firefox, flashplugin-nonfree, libvirt, linux-meta-mvl-dove, linux-mvl-dove, loggerhead, quagga, subversion, tomcat6, vsftpd, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''>   * linux-meta-lts-backport-maverick published to lucid-proposed

 <''''''> * A total of 9 packages have been published to karmic-security: firefox-3.5, flashplugin-nonfree, libvirt, loggerhead, quagga, subversion, tomcat6, vsftpd, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''> * A total of 9 packages have been published to hardy

 <''''''>   * openssh published to hardy-updates

 <''''''>   * 6 packages published to hardy-security: firefox-3.0, flashplugin-nonfree, quagga, subversion, vsftpd, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''>   * 2 packages published to hardy-proposed: linux-backports-modules-2.6.24, linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24

 <''''''> * A total of 7 packages have been published to dapper

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to dapper-security: linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15, quagga, subversion, vsftpd

 <''''''>   * 3 packages published to dapper-proposed: linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15, linux-source-2.6.15, linux-source-2.6.15

 <''''''> Thanks to all the testers !

 <''''''> As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> Thank you, jibel

 <''''''> any questions about the SRU report?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Burndown updates

=== Burndown updates ===
 <''''''> hi folks

 <''''''> marjo: your turn

 <''''''> Natty Beta-1 Work Items

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-qa-n-testing-different-architectures

 <''''''> jibel done with cleanup of subscribers list

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa

 <''''''> hggdh still blocked due to lack of working UEC tools since after Alpha 2.

 <''''''> Blocked on Critical bug 717166

 <''''''> Launchpad bug 717166 in eucalyptus (Ubuntu Natty) (and 2 other projects) "Broken with v4 isc-dhcp-server in Natty (affects: 2) (heat: 95)" [Critical,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/717166

 <''''''> Remaining Natty Work Items

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html

 <''''''> [pvillavi] Contact documentation team for help: DONE

 <''''''> [brian-murray] Dashboard prototype creation: INPROGRESS

 <''''''> All other work items are on track

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> charlie-tca: that's it from me

 <''''''> Thank you, marjo

 <''''''> any questions on the burndown reports?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] # Any Other Business

=== # Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> go ahead, marjo

 <''''''> Hi folks,

 <''''''> I would like to announce that I am leaving Canonical as the Ubuntu QA team manager. I've enjoyed working with all of you and wish you the best.

 <''''''> In the interim, Pete Graner, pgraner will be the acting manager.

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> !

 <''''''> thx charlie-tca

 <''''''> Hello everyone!

 <''''''> Good luck in your future endeavors, marjo

 <''''''> Welcome, pgraner

 <''''''> marjo, ditto!

 <''''''> thx charlie-tca

 <''''''> charlie-tca: thx much!

 <''''''> We are testing the Natty Beta1 images today

 <''''''> any help is appreciated.

* '''''' seconds charlie-tca

 <''''''> I think we should clarify that they are Natty Beta 1 Candidates

 <''''''> Good point, bdmurray

* '''''' seconds charlie-tca and skaet_ 

 <''''''> You can still help with the testing, go to http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com and there are testcases to complete for the following products:

 <''''''> These are subject to being rebuilt if they things go bad

 <''''''> As I've seen some bug reports where people mention testing Beta 1 which it really isn't ... yet

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> sorry, jibel

 <''''''> go ahead, please

 <''''''> thanks, so everyone can help

 <''''''> the following products needs testing:

 <''''''> Edubuntu DVD

 <''''''> Kubuntu Alternate

 <''''''> Kubuntu Desktop

 <''''''> Kubuntu DVD

 <''''''> Kubuntu Mobile

 <''''''> Ubuntu Alternate

 <''''''> Ubuntu Desktop

 <''''''> Ubuntu Server

 <''''''> Pick one of them and give it a try. You can join us on #ubuntu-testing

 <''''''> thanks

 <''''''> Thanks, jibel

 <''''''> Is there any thing else to bring up?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Selection of new chair

=== Selection of new chair ===
 <''''''> Do we have any volunteer for the next meeting chair? It will be an 18:00 UTC meeting.

 <''''''> i'll do it

 <''''''> Great!

 <''''''> Thanks for taking the chair next week, patrickmw

 <''''''> With that, we can say thank you to all of you for participating.

 <''''''> marjo: thanks so much for all your help

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:15 ==
=== People Present ===
* marjo

* charlie-tca

* jibel

* ubot4`

* JFo

* pgraner

* skaet_

* bdmurray

* patrickmw

=== Actions Recorded ===
