{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Lucid 1st Point Release (10.04.1) - 26th August 2010 ==

Note: These report does not include the Kubuntu Netbook ARM, that was not part of the official release, but that the mobile team has added to the ISO tracker lately.

=== Summary ===

==== Test Coverage ====
* Image Testcase Coverage: 11/11 = 100%
* Mandatory Testcase Coverage: 87/88 = 98.86%
* Optional Testcase Coverage: 24/36 = 66.67%

==== Test Failure Analysis ====
* 5 Test Failures
* Failure Rate 5/111 = 4.50

=== Bugs summary ===
==== Summary of Unfixed Issues ====
12 bugs unfixed

* Medium - 3
* Undecided - 9

See section titled "<nowiki>[[#UnfixedIssues|Details of Unfixed Issues]]</nowiki>" below.

==== Summary of Fixed Issues ====
0 bugs fixed

=== Summary of test failures ===
==== Kubuntu Desktop amd64 - Install (entire disk) ====
* LP: Bug:618716 - [iso testing] Kubuntu daily-build 16.08, can't shutdown live-session - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: tested on virtualbox ose 3.2 x86 64, swiss/french, Lucid 10.04.1 , install work properly , but failed to shutdown via the menu .
==== Kubuntu Desktop amd64 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:618716 - [iso testing] Kubuntu daily-build 16.08, can't shutdown live-session - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: tested on virtualbox ose 3.2 swiss/french and the  live session on the Lucid 10.04.1 and the marvick daily-build 16.08.2010, wont to shutdown.
==== Kubuntu Desktop i386 - Wubi (Windows installer) ====
* LP: Bug:613288 - wubi installation failed - boot configuration store could not be opened - Confirmed - Medium
Tester's comment: 
==== Kubuntu Netbook i386 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:362074 - Kubuntu:  boot time is too slow. screen flickers excessively. - Confirmed - Undecided
Tester's comment: I can&#039;t use kubuntu netbook because boot time is so slow and after startup it completely freeze.

=== Details of Unfixed Issues ===

==== Medium ====
* LP: Bug:613288 - wubi installation failed - boot configuration store could not be opened - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:601344 - Installing on auto resize mode is  not possible to choose in wich disk install - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:619096 - plymouth text theme does not CR on LF (it's staircasing) - Triaged - Medium

==== Undecided ====
* LP: Bug:618724 - ubiquity-kde in 10.04.1 doesn't auto-fill in a host name during pre-install config - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:618716 - [iso testing] Kubuntu daily-build 16.08, can't shutdown live-session - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:567156 - Unexpectedly disconnected from boot status daemon - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:619495 - At first boot of a fresh install jockey don't start - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:620002 - Selected language for Wubi install not supported - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:620028 - Wubi installs but no Ubuntu entry in Grub - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:362074 - Kubuntu:  boot time is too slow. screen flickers excessively. - Confirmed - Undecided
* LP: Bug:566871 - squashfs errors when shutting down live session - Confirmed - Undecided

=== Test Coverage Details by Category ===

* Kubuntu Alternate amd64: 4/4
* Kubuntu Alternate i386: 4/4
* Kubuntu Desktop amd64: 6/6
* Kubuntu Desktop i386: 6/6
* Kubuntu Netbook Arm (dove): 0/1
* Kubuntu Netbook Arm (imx51): 0/1
* Kubuntu Netbook Arm (omap): 0/1
* Kubuntu Netbook i386: 5/6
* Ubuntu Alternate amd64: 6/6
* Ubuntu Alternate i386: 6/6
* Ubuntu Desktop amd64: 8/8
* Ubuntu Desktop i386: 8/8
* Ubuntu Server amd64: 17/17
* Ubuntu Server i386: 17/17
