{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==
  
* SRU Testing -- jibel
** A total of 35 packages have been published to lucid: 
*** 13 packages published to lucid-updates, 
*** 5 packages published to lucid-security (chromium-browser, gyp, lftp, sudo, wget), 
*** 17 packages published to lucid-proposed
** A total of 4 packages have been published to karmic: 
*** 1 package published to karmic-updates (agg),
*** 3 packages published to karmic-security (lftp, sudo, wget)
** A total of 2 packages have been published to jaunty: 
*** 2 packages published to jaunty-security (lftp, wget)
** A total of 2 packages have been published to hardy:
*** 2 packages published to hardy-security (lftp, wget)
** A total of 1 packages have been published to dapper
*** 1 packages published to dapper-security (wget) 

** Complete report is available at <nowiki>[[QATeam-SRUReports-2010-09-08]]</nowiki>

* Bug Day status -- pvillavi
** 2 bug days organized next week:
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100914|September 14th]]</nowiki> will be targeted to 'Upgrade issues' to maverick
*** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100916|September 16th]]</nowiki> the tagert will be 'Brasero
** It is happening at #ubuntu-bugs.

 
* Spec Status: http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10.html

* CR3 announced that the Results Tracker is progressing nicely and a release scheduled this week.

* Next meeting on September 15th, Chair will be Ameetp.

== Meeting opened by jibel at 17:00 ==
 <''''''> Hello folks, welcome to the weekly QA meeting.

 <''''''> The agenda for today is:

 <''''''> # review previous action items (all)

 <''''''> # SRU testing -- jibel

 <''''''> # Bug Day status -- pedro_

 <''''''> # Maverick Work Items -- marjo

 <''''''> # Selection of new chair -- jibel

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Pending actions

=== Pending actions ===
 <''''''> Any action items ?

 <''''''> There are none that I remember from the previous meeting. Anyone ?

 <''''''> I don't think so

 <''''''> jibel: none

 <''''''> OK, let's move on, then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU testing

=== SRU testing ===
 <''''''> Over the past week 44 packages have been published to stable releases

 <''''''> The complete list is available at

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/SRUReports/2010-09-08

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/SRUReports/2010-09-08''
|}

 <''''''> * A total of 35 packages have been published to lucid: 13 packages published to lucid-updates, 5 packages published to lucid-security (chromium-browser, gyp, lftp, sudo, wget), 17 packages published to lucid-proposed

 <''''''> * A total of 4 packages have been published to karmic: 1 package published to karmic-updates (agg), 3 packages published to karmic-security (lftp, sudo, wget)

 <''''''> * A total of 2 packages have been published to jaunty: 2 packages published to jaunty-security (lftp, wget)

 <''''''> * A total of 2 packages have been published to hardy 2 packages published to hardy-security (lftp, wget)

 <''''''> * A total of 1 packages have been published to dapper 1 packages published to dapper-security (wget)

 <''''''> Thanks to Alvin (alvin), Andrew LeCody, Arrigo Marchiori, Lorenzo Bicci, John Dickson, Marco Cimmino, darko, drizzle (drizzle), darren, Pedro Bessa, Derrik Pates, D Tangman, dragilla, Melvin, Miroslav, fcastillo, Martin Bajer, hedgehog, Ivan Efremov, Irihapeti,

 <''''''> JeanAustinR (zeroseven0183), Jesse Palser, Jacob Helwig (jhelwig), jorsmal, James Clemence, Kaspar Metz, Kent Tong, Scott Kitterman (ScottK), linuxpriyan, Andreas Schildbach, Michael Martin-Smucker, nutznboltz, Omer Akram (om26er), papukaija, Remeez,

 <''''''> Rico Tzschichholz (ricotz), Rkimber, Rocko, Simon Butcher, Scott Ritchie (YokoZar), Scott Lavender (ScottL), yamo, tasadar_f (TASADAR-F), Ted Gulesserian, Thierry Chich, Timo Jyrinki, Stanislaw Waszkiewicz, NeoTrantor, Steve Stalcup, Brian and Joseph Trent for testing packages in -proposed.

 <''''''> As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!

 <''''''> The feedback on gwibber testing was pretty good following the call for testing.

 <''''''> We have also posted a call for testing for Wine1.2 to the Ubuntuforums

 <''''''> and a few testers a been positively trying the new package in -proposed.

 <''''''> Any questions/comments about the stable release updates ?

 <''''''> no one.

 <''''''> moving on

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Bug Day status -- pedro

=== Bug Day status -- pedro ===
 <''''''> Hello

 <''''''> Last Thursday we had a bug day for Empathy: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100902

 <''''''> the participation was great (again!) 118 of 176 bugs were triaged that day

 <''''''> Thanks a *lot* to our rocking contributors: vish, bcurtisw, devildante, adamcollard, sparkiegeek, kamusin, alucardni and drkenobi

 <''''''> nice to see some new contributors the previous week ;-)

 <''''''> alright for tomorrow we have a bug day which was proposed by the famous charlie-tca

 <''''''> the target will be apt: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100909

 <''''''> as you can see there, some awesome contributors already started to work on it, but there's still plenty of bugs waiting to be triaged

 <''''''> so if you have some time and want to learn about bug triage join us at #ubuntu-bugs  we'll be happy to help you

 <''''''> that's all from here jibel unless there's a question/comment

 <''''''> pedro_, what is the target for September 16th ?

 <''''''> jibel, we are thinking on the next one in the list, which is brasero

 <''''''> pedro_ yes, please

 <''''''> unless there's some urgent task to do that would be the target

 <''''''> marjo,  ;-)

 <''''''> btw if you have any ideas or new targets please add those to our planning page

 <''''''> I was thinking that 10.10 is arriving quickly and some users are upgrading to maverick.

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Planning

 <''''''> pedro_,  thanks - was just about to ask. :)

 <''''''> you're welcome skaet

 <''''''> Would it be worth organizing a bug day about upgrades issues before the release ?

 <''''''> that would cover update-manager and apport-package

 <''''''> jibel, yeah that'd be nice, we could cover both bug days the same week

 <''''''> earlier the better from my perspective.  :)

 <''''''> on Tuesday and Thursday

 <''''''> jibel, Tuesday 14th upgrades - Thursday 16th brasero ?

 <''''''> marjo, that's fine with me, marjo what about you ?

 <''''''> yeah following the earlier the better advice ;-)

 <''''''> jibel: ok w/ me

 <''''''> awesome! i'll coordinate with you jibel then

 <''''''> [ACTION] Schedule an "upgrade issues" bug day on September 14th

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Schedule an "upgrade issues" bug day on September 14th''
|}

 <''''''> Anything else on this topic ?

 <''''''> Next one then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Maverick Work Items -- marjo

=== Maverick Work Items -- marjo ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10.html

 <''''''> the progress looks decent, just one week after beta release

 <''''''> i have removed sbeattie from the team list, so the security related items should drop off tomorrow's chart

 <''''''> ara & hggdh have the most work items, but i'm confident those will get worked through

 <''''''> jibel: that's all from me

* '''''' hugs ara and hggdh

 <''''''> great, thank you marjo

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AOB

=== AOB ===
 <''''''> Any other question/comments/complain or anything that was not part of the agenda ?

* '''''' raises hand

 <''''''> cr3 the floor is yours

 <''''''> just announcing that the Results Tracker is progressing nicely in concert with the rest of the Launchpad team and mvo, the primary stakeholder.

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> *\o/*, go, cr3, go

 <''''''> cr3: nice! thx for the update

* '''''' high fives cr3.

* '''''' hugs cr3

 <''''''> the code will be able to use launchaplib which should extend the existing launchpad interface with additional features

 <''''''> so, we'll be able to call lp.me like before but also something like lp.submissions[-1]

 <''''''> will the code be released under a foss license?

 <''''''> ara: same license as Launchpad, AGPL

 <''''''> the code uses a combination of django, zope, lazr and storm. it can be installed standalone for people to start playing/hacking with it as early as possible

 <''''''> Ah, nice, I didn't realize LP was AGPL rather than GPL

 <''''''> the doc and test coverage will be minimal for a release scheduled this week, but at least there will be an interface as well as openid and oauth integration with launchpad.net

 <''''''> that's it for me

 <''''''> thank you cr3

 <''''''> any other topic ,announcement ?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Selection of new chair

=== Selection of new chair ===
 <''''''> Who wants to chair next week ?

 <''''''> jibel: i nominate cyphermox

 <''''''> no one complain about it (excepted cyphermox) ?

 <''''''> ok then

 <''''''> Hehe

 <''''''> jibel: I can do it

 <''''''> ameetp: thx

 <''''''> thank you ameetp

 <''''''> I complain!

 <''''''> [ACTION] ameetp to chair next meeting.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' ameetp to chair next meeting.''
|}

* '''''' apologizes for pushing everyone out of the way ;)

 <''''''> cyphermox: too late; ameetp bailed you out

 <''''''> ameetp, thanks :)

 <''''''> ameetp: I was *just* about to volunteer, too!

* '''''' owes ameetp a beer

 <''''''> (Not really.)

 <''''''> cyphermox: sounds good :)

 <''''''> cyphermox: don't be surprised to see a bunch of bugs assigned to you next week!

 <''''''> marjo: ahah. I expect it to be the case :)

 <''''''> We'll leave cyphermox and ameetp with their beers and adjourn the meeting.

 <''''''> jibel: thx for chairing

 <''''''> next meeting September 15th, 1900UTC, chair is ameetp

 <''''''> sounds good

 <''''''> Thanks everybody and see you all next week.

 <''''''> thanks jibel!

 <''''''> Merci jibel!

 <''''''> jibel: thanks

 <''''''> thanks jibel

 <''''''> jibel, #endmeeting?

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:31 ==
=== People Present ===
* jibel

* ara

* marjo

* pedro_

* skaet

* cr3

* fader_

* hggdh

* ameetp

* cyphermox

=== Actions Recorded ===
* Schedule an "upgrade issues" bug day on September 14th

* ameetp to chair next meeting.
