{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==

Topic: review previous action items (all)<<BR>>
No previous items

Topic: SRU Report -- jibel

Here is the list of SRUs for the previous week:
* A total of 31 packages have been published to maverick
* 15 packages published to maverick-updates: banshee, banshee-community-extensions, deluge, gexiv2, gwibber, ibus, kexec-tools, linaro-image-tools, msttcorefonts, pianobar, rhythmbox-radio-browser, telepathy-haze, tomboy, vm-builder, xdg-utils
* 8 packages published to maverick-security: bind9, chromium-browser, chromium-browser, imagemagick, linux-ports-meta, openssl, phpmyadmin, wireshark
* 8 packages published to maverick-proposed: linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.35, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, purple-plugin-pack, qemu-kvm, schroot, software-center
* A total of 20 packages have been published to lucid
* 6 packages published to lucid-updates: dnsmasq, etherboot, grub2, openjdk-6, qemu-kvm, rhythmbox-radio-browser
* 8 packages published to lucid-security: bind9, chromium-browser, chromium-browser, imagemagick, linux-ports-meta, openssl, paste, quagga
* 6 packages published to lucid-proposed: apparmor, cloud-init, git-core, mysql-dfsg-5.1, testdrive, update-inetd
* A total of 6 packages have been published to karmic
* 1 package published to karmic-updates: openjdk-6
* 4 packages published to karmic-security: bind9, imagemagick, openssl, quagga
* 1 package published to karmic-proposed: nspluginwrapper
* A total of 8 packages have been published to hardy
* 2 packages published to hardy-updates: mailman, openjdk-6
* 4 packages published to hardy-security: bind9, imagemagick, openssl, quagga
* 2 packages published to hardy-proposed: apparmor, spamassassin
* A total of 3 packages have been published to dapper-security: bind9, openssl, quagga
This makes a total of 68 SRUs this week. Thanks to all the testers !

Topic: Bugday -- pedro_

* No bug day was organized for the previous week due to alpha1
* This Thursday Dec 09, we're having a bug day based on Compiz
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20101209
** The main focus is to catch bugs on Natty, so if you use Compiz on Natty please help us

Topic: Any Other Business
* http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-2.html
* http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qadashboard/qadashboard.html
** Please note: software-centre and compiz on top 5 list
* Last week was Natty Alpha 1 ISO Testing, the results are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/NattyAlpha1TestReport
** Thanks to all the ISO Testers.
** The Italian team did a great work.
* Next meeting is 2010-12-15 at 17:00 UTC; chair will be bdmurray

== Meeting Log ==

== Meeting opened by charlie-tca at 18:06 ==
 <''''''> This the regular weekly QA meeting.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] the agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

=== the agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings ===
 <''''''> [TOPIC] review previous action items

=== review previous action items ===
 <''''''> I do not recall any previous actions

 <''''''> nope, there's no actions from the previous meeting

 <''''''> So, moving right along, especially since I was a bit late

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU Report

=== SRU Report ===
 <''''''> jibel: all yours

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> Here is the list of SRUs for the previous week:

 <''''''> * A total of 31 packages have been published to maverick

 <''''''>   * 15 packages published to maverick-updates: banshee, banshee-community-extensions, deluge, gexiv2, gwibber, ibus, kexec-tools, linaro-image-tools, msttcorefonts, pianobar, rhythmbox-radio-browser, telepathy-haze, tomboy, vm-builder, xdg-utils

 <''''''>   * 8 packages published to maverick-security: bind9, chromium-browser, chromium-browser, imagemagick, linux-ports-meta, openssl, phpmyadmin, wireshark

 <''''''>   * 8 packages published to maverick-proposed: linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.35, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, purple-plugin-pack, qemu-kvm, schroot, software-center

 <''''''> * A total of 20 packages have been published to lucid

 <''''''>   * 6 packages published to lucid-updates: dnsmasq, etherboot, grub2, openjdk-6, qemu-kvm, rhythmbox-radio-browser

 <''''''>   * 8 packages published to lucid-security: bind9, chromium-browser, chromium-browser, imagemagick, linux-ports-meta, openssl, paste, quagga

 <''''''>   * 6 packages published to lucid-proposed: apparmor, cloud-init, git-core, mysql-dfsg-5.1, testdrive, update-inetd

 <''''''> * A total of 6 packages have been published to karmic

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to karmic-updates: openjdk-6

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to karmic-security: bind9, imagemagick, openssl, quagga

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to karmic-proposed: nspluginwrapper

 <''''''> * A total of 8 packages have been published to hardy

 <''''''>   * 2 packages published to hardy-updates: mailman, openjdk-6

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to hardy-security: bind9, imagemagick, openssl, quagga

 <''''''>   * 2 packages published to hardy-proposed: apparmor, spamassassin

 <''''''> * A total of 3 packages have been published to dapper-security: bind9, openssl, quagga

 <''''''> This makes a total of 68 SRUs this week.

 <''''''> Thanks to all the testers !

 <''''''> any question/comment ?

 <''''''> nothing, moving on then.

 <''''''> Thank you all

 <''''''> thank you, jibel

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Bugday

=== Bugday ===
 <''''''> pedro_: floor's yours

 <''''''> thank you charlie-tca

 <''''''> no bug day was organized for the previous week due to alpha1

 <''''''> so for this Thursday Dec 09, we're having a bug day based on Compiz https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20101209

 <''''''> And it is going to be great!

 <''''''> the main focus is to catch bugs on Natty, so if you use Compiz on Natty please help us :-)

 <''''''> and enable the Unity plugin as well and start reporting bugs about it so we can escalate those to the developers

 <''''''> Let's try to make that a real good bug day, then.

 <''''''> as always, we'll be at #ubuntu-bugs , so if you have a question/comment don't hesitate on asking there, the bugsquad will be glad to help you

 <''''''> indeed :-)

 <''''''> charlie-tca, that's all from here unless there's a question/comment

 <''''''> Thank you very much, pedro_

 <''''''> thanks!

 <''''''> We need to make Natty everything we can

 <''''''> Any Other Business

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

=== Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> charlie-tca: yes

 <''''''> Go ahead, marjo

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-2.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-2.html

 <''''''> too early in cycle to comment on, but please take a look for your work items

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qadashboard/qadashboard.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qadashboard/qadashboard.html

 <''''''> please note: software-centre and compiz on top 5 list

 <''''''> charlie-tca: thx

 <''''''> You are welcome

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Good point on this stuff. If we don't catch it early, with holidays and all, we will be in trouble

 <''''''> and we're having a bug day for compiz, what a good timing :-P

 <''''''> Go ahead, jibel

 <''''''> Last week was Natty Alpha 1 ISO Testing, the results are available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/NattyAlpha1TestReport

 <''''''> Thanks to all the ISO Testers.

 <''''''> Nice report

 <''''''> The Italian team did a great work as well as charlie-tca and the target is high to beat them during A2 iso testing.

 <''''''> yes, charlie-tca is the rock star: http://hall-of-fame.ubuntu.com/

 <''''''> In line with that, we broke Xubuntu while merging the xfce4.8 panel and plugins. It is not working at this time

* '''''' hugs charlie-tca

 <''''''> but, at least we waited until after alpha1.

 <''''''> thanks jibel

 <''''''> charlie-tca,  you rock!

 <''''''> thanks to all of you! I only try to help when I can

 <''''''> anything else to discuss?

 <''''''> They say practice makes perfect, but it seems it is not working for me here. Based on that,

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Selection of new chair

=== Selection of new chair ===
 <''''''> Do we have any volunteers to chair the next meeting?

 <''''''> hggdh, where are you hiding this time ?

 <''''''> silence is deafening...

* '''''' hears a pin drop

 <''''''> bdmurray?

 <''''''> I am b ack in, sorry, got distracted

* '''''' is here

 <''''''> looking for the next chair...

 <''''''> \o/

* '''''' volunteers, if bdmurray does not do so first

 <''''''> thank you, bdmurray

 <''''''> too late...

 <''''''> Chairing the next meeting, Dec 15, will be bdmurray

 <''''''> And, that ends the meeting. Thank you all for attending

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 18:27 ==
=== People Present ===
* charlie-tca

* pedro_

* jibel

* marjo_

* ara

* hggdh

* bdmurray

=== Actions Recorded ===
