{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Test Writer ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%;" style="width: 33%; border: none; background-color: #ddd; padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''Requirements'''
| <style="width: 40px; border: none;">
| <style="width: 33%; border: none; background-color: #ddd; padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''Main Activities'''
| <style="width: 40px; border: none;">
| <style="width: 33%; border: none; background-color: #ddd; padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''Supporting Tasks'''
|-
| <style="background-color: #eee; border: none; vertical-align: top; padding: 0.5em 1em;">&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentSetup|A development setup]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentToolsSetup|Development tools setup]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; Basic understanding of <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentToolsUsage|Bzr and Launchpad merge proposals]]</nowiki>
| <style="border: none;">
| <style="background-color: #eee; border: none; vertical-align: top; padding: 0.5em 1em;">&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Writing_Manual_Tests|Writing Manual Tests]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Writing_Autopilot_Tests|Writing Autopilot Tests]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Writing_Autopackage_Tests|Writing Autopackage Tests]]</nowiki>
| <style="border: none;">
| <style="background-color: #eee; border: none; vertical-align: top; padding: 0.5em 1em;">Improve processes. Maintain tests.
|}

=== Writing Manual Tests ===
Manual test cases are utilized by testers to perform predefined test cases against software, images and hardware. No programming knowledge is required to write manual test cases.

* <nowiki>[[QATeam-ContributingTestcases-Manual|Guide to writing Manual tests]]</nowiki>

=== Writing Autopilot Tests ===
As the name suggests, Autopilot tests are tests that are automatically ran against software. They also report any errors found during the tests automatically. The Autopilot tests are written in the ''Python'' programming language with the help of a custom API.

* <nowiki>[[QATeam-ContributingTestcases#Autopilot|Guide to writing Autopilot tests]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QATeam-ContributingTestcases#Needed_autopilot_tests|A list of needed Autopilot tests]]</nowiki>

=== Writing Autopackage Tests ===
Autopackage tests are another type of automatic tests that are built in to Debian packaging. Writing Autopackage tests requires some programming knowledge and understanding the basics of Debian packaging is useful as well.

* <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/auto-pkg-test.html|Guide to Autopackage tests]]</nowiki>
