{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This page is to keep track of progress and who is doing what from the Community QA Team for Precise:

== Who is doing What ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="text-align: left; background-color: #F1F1DD;">  '''Task'''
| <style="text-align: left; background-color: #F1F1DD;">  '''Description'''
| <style="text-align: left; background-color: #F1F1DD;">  '''Coordinator'''
| <style="text-align: left; background-color: #F1F1DD;">  '''Willing to help'''
| <style="text-align: left; background-color: #F1F1DD;"> '''Status'''
|-
| Smoke Testing
| Smoke tests generation
| Aaron
| alourie, brendand, jibel, gema, roignac
| INPROGRESS
|-
| Test Case Update
| Fix existing ISO/Application test cases
| alourie
| brendand, gema, roignac
| INPROGRESS
|-
| Code Coverage
| Find a way to instrument Ubuntu with gcov
| ?
| brendand
| TODO
|-
| Test Escape
| TEA Analysis
| ?
| alourie
| TODO
|-
| New Test Cases
| Test cases fishing from launchpad bug reports
| ?
| alourie, roignac
| TODO
|-
| Test Case Management
| Litmus review / pilot feedback
| brendand
| alourie, gema, roignac
| TODO
|-
| Wiki
| Wiki refurbishing
| alourie
| gema
| INPROGRESS
|}

== Detailed description of tasks ==

=== ISO Testing ===

==== Smoke Testing ====

Compile a list of applications that are installed by default by the
ISO installers (one for Desktop, one for Server) and propose two or
three basic test cases that could be run post install giving us basic
confidence that the ISO is good for further testing (i.e. compile a list
of post-install smoke tests that we could run with Jenkins).

This task is not about generating code, but about thinking of what
packages of the ones installed are important and worth testing in a
daily test suite. We could split it in different tasks for different
people if we generate first a list of apps that we can use for the
generation of test cases.

==== Test Case Update ====
We need to fix the existing test cases in the tracker (<nowiki>[[http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com|testcases.qa.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki>) and convert
them to a better, more understandable format. Basically we need to
convert them to unambiguous and meaningful test cases, following the <nowiki>[[QATeam-TestCase|template agreed]]</nowiki>. Some of them are redundant, some of them are too long to be just one test case, some
others do not make sense anymore. This is a tidy up task that needs to
be done.

If you want to take part in this task, please use <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AgtV30nnv18edFQzNVB4S2duOWNOT05zaHo3S0pNekE&authkey=CMTAtuoI&hl=en_US&pli=1#gid=0 | This Google Spreadsheet]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TasksPrecise/TestCasesRewrite|this short guide]]</nowiki> for doing so.

=== Metrics ===

==== Code Coverage ====
We need to look at the codebase of Ubuntu main and see how to instrument the code so that
we can start generating code coverage metrics. This is about compiling
the Ubuntu code with gcov and generating binaries that can be used
(still to be seen how to install them) for this end.
	- This task requires code in-depth knowledge and familiarity on how
things are built and can be changed to build in a different way. We
should decide where to start instrumenting and why.

==== Test Escape ====
Look into how to do test escape analysis with launchpad. TEA is an
analysis that will tell us, after Precise, if we missed some problems
that were found by someone after we did our testing and that should help
us understand whether we should be adding new test cases in those
"missed" areas or not.

==== New Test Cases ====
Gather test cases from defects. This is about making a list of
defects that have been fixed for Oneiric and that have a set of steps to
reproduce the problem that needs to be gathered and written into a
proper test case.

=== Test case management system ===

==== Test Case Management ====
Still not available, but when it is, review and give feedback
about litmus and its usability. Also help decide how to configure it to
make it more suitable for the Ubuntu community testing.

=== Backlog tasks ===

==== Wiki ====
Review and change the wiki to reflect the new approach to QA.
