{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by phillw at 14:12:05 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-04-04-14.12.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Ubuntu Updates

* Flavour Updates

* Lubuntu

* Flavours

* Xubuntu

* Ubuntu Studio

* Ubuntu Updates

* Any Other Business

* Ubuntu Update

Meeting ended at 14:44:53 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* phillw (37)
* astraljava (21)
* skaet (14)
* BEC (12)
* EffenbergAway (8)
* ubottu (4)
* meetingology (3)
* kanliot (1)

=== Full Log ===

 14:12:05 <phillw> #startmeeting QA Meeting

 14:12:05 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Apr  4 14:12:05 2012 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 14:12:05 <meetingology> 

 14:12:05 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 14:12:05 <astraljava> phillw: Use hash.

 14:12:23 <phillw> hi, you'll have to put up with me!

 14:12:42 <phillw> can all present please say aye (or the usual o/)

 14:12:48 <astraljava> o/

 14:14:08 <phillw> this will be a really short meeting :/

 14:14:13 <astraljava> Heh, indeed.

 14:14:51 <phillw> #topic Ubuntu Updates

 14:15:02 <phillw> is there anyone in from the Ubuntu team?

 14:16:09 <phillw> #topic Flavour Updates

 14:16:21 <phillw> #topic Lubuntu

 14:16:52 <phillw> All testing is going well, so nothing to really report

 14:17:39 <phillw> kanliot: will be liasing with QA during my absence, I know he will be extended the help & support you have given me

 14:17:53 <kanliot> thanks phillw

 14:18:19 <phillw> #topic Flavours

 14:18:41 <phillw> Any one in from other flavours who can give an update?

 14:18:52 * astraljava is in for Xubuntu and Ubuntu Studio

 14:19:02 <phillw> #topic Xubuntu

 14:19:09 <phillw> astraljava: the floor is yours.

 14:19:37 <astraljava> Thanks phillw. Some small changes regarding artwork.

 14:19:48 <astraljava> There's been a change to mixer settings.

 14:20:04 <astraljava> We now prefer pavucontrol over xfce4-mixer for Xubuntu session.

 14:20:19 <astraljava> It partially works, unmuting still isn't fool-proof.

 14:20:38 <astraljava> There was also an icon issue found in indicator-plugin.

 14:21:12 <astraljava> There are _no_ icons if T-bird is not running, but placeholders when it is. It also concerns Evolution, so not technically Xubuntu-related only.

 14:21:45 <astraljava> New translations were requested for Abiword.

 14:22:08 <astraljava> I'm working on it together with the Debian maintainer, but expecting to just update the po/ directory.

 14:22:18 <astraljava> Nothing more for Xubuntu, IIRC.

 14:22:20 <astraljava> ..

 14:22:27 <phillw> astraljava: thanks

 14:22:43 <phillw> #topic Ubuntu Studio

 14:23:02 <astraljava> New -lowlatency kernel is landing soon-ish, needing lots of testing.

 14:23:19 <astraljava> Just found out that ubuntustudio-audio meta-package isn't installed by default, which worries me greatly.

 14:23:32 <astraljava> Also wanting to make the mixer change like Xubuntu.

 14:23:52 <astraljava> I'm working on the issue together with mr_pouit and other Xubuntu devs.

 14:24:13 <astraljava> Nothing more that I can think of right now.

 14:24:15 <astraljava> ..

 14:24:24 <phillw> astraljava: thanks

 14:24:35 <phillw> #Ubuntu Updates

 14:24:49 <phillw> #topic Ubuntu Updates

 14:25:08 <phillw> skaet: could you give us any news on Ubuntu, please?

 14:26:21 * phillw did ask in -release if anyone was available, it seems not.

 14:26:43 <phillw> #topic Any Other Business

 14:27:07 <phillw> has anyone got any thing to add, with the exception of why no one is here!

 14:27:15 * astraljava wonders if this new schedule is actually working out for everyone...

 14:27:48 <phillw> I'll catch up with balloons and find out what has happened... the email was sent!

 14:28:10 <EffenbergAway> I got no reply from Ballons in e-mails today, maybe he's busy with some other urgency

 14:28:15 * skaet waves,   just a sec

 14:28:54 <phillw> skaet: of course. do you want topic changing back to Ubuntu Updates?

 14:28:57 <skaet> Ubuntu will be kernel freezing on tomorrow at 2100 UTC.    Am wondering how the low latency kernel state.

 14:29:09 <phillw> #topic Ubuntu Update

 14:29:21 <skaet> phillw,  no matter.

 14:30:06 <skaet> Dates upcoming,   Kernel Freeze - April 5,    Final Freeze - April 12 (all important bug fixes should be added by this date)

 14:30:52 <skaet> Release Candidate Week starts - April 19 (all images produced after this point will need testing), as they could be the one we ship.

 14:31:01 <skaet> April 26 - Release :)

 14:31:09 <skaet> that's the schedule for the month coming up...

 14:31:33 <phillw> skaet: has any progress been made on bug 972285 if there is a kernel freeze coming up?

 14:31:35 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 972285 in linux (Ubuntu) "segmentation fault when start on linux 3.0.0-18-generic" [Medium,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/972285

 14:32:09 <skaet> A big thank you to the folks who got the last bug fixes in and tested.   Beta 2 is looking good overall - not seeing any serious spikeds.

 14:32:46 <skaet> s/spikeds/spikes where we aren't expecting them in bug traffic ;) /

 14:33:02 <phillw> the whole of this cycle has been outstandingly stable :)

 14:33:25 <EffenbergAway> o/

 14:33:27 <skaet> :)

 14:33:39 <phillw> EffenbergAway: the floor is yours

 14:33:44 <skaet> phillw,  just know about that one,  what is in the bug.   Looks like the kernel team is on it.

 14:33:51 <BEC> my first time testing & it seems going smooth after my first run :D

 14:33:55 <skaet> and a possible reversion would work.

 14:34:05 * skaet ends

 14:34:07 <EffenbergAway> There is a growing number of users complaining about bug 951404 (and dups).

 14:34:09 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 951404 in lightdm (Ubuntu Precise) "Ubuntu 12.04 session don't open with lightdm" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/951404

 14:34:13 <EffenbergAway> I'm worried about it

 14:35:00 <EffenbergAway> Forum staff members asked for advice. It looks like removing unity-greeter for gtk is the only workaround for some

 14:35:17 <phillw> EffenbergAway: it has been allocated to the Canonical Desktop Team, so I'm sure it is being worked on

 14:35:29 <EffenbergAway> Thanks Philw :)

 14:35:49 <BEC> I mailed yesternight about LyX; could someone check the package in the Software Center plz?

 14:36:51 <phillw> skaet: could you ask the Desktop team for an update and put it onto the bug?

 14:37:28 <EffenbergAway> BEC: 455.aMB/761.5MB

 14:37:49 <BEC> exactly; isn't that too big? on 10.04 it is around 10.5M

 14:37:51 <BEC> total

 14:38:22 <phillw> BEC: yeah, I saw that bug in my emails... a bit odd, to say the least.

 14:38:30 <skaet> phillw,  have put out some pings.    will ask.

 14:38:34 <BEC> btw didn't bug it

 14:38:39 <BEC> should i?

 14:38:47 <phillw> BEC: yes please

 14:38:52 <BEC> thx

 14:38:59 <BEC> i will

 14:39:23 <phillw> any one else?

 14:39:23 <EffenbergAway> Build includes debug info? Probably strip and o3?

 14:40:42 <BEC> the following bugs: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/969485 & https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/969700; are they gona be fixed?

 14:40:44 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 969485 in linux (Ubuntu) "Fan working non-stop" [Medium,Confirmed]

 14:40:45 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 969700 in linux (Ubuntu) "Sound imbalance" [Medium,Confirmed]

 14:42:15 <BEC> btw, a a few months ago I lost the suspend & hibernate features on 10.04; when I use them the system shutdowns instead; not sure of the reason

 14:42:29 <BEC> any idea of its possible cause?

 14:42:43 <phillw> BEC: I've found that getting a few 'affects me' people onto a bug gets it noticed as it raises the heat.

 14:44:00 <BEC> i noticed that too; so they might not get a fix soon?

 14:44:14 <phillw> Well, thanks to those who made it. Hopfully for next week more people will have read their e-mails about the new time of the meeting.

 14:44:53 <phillw> #endmeeting
