{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== How to chair the QA Meeting ==

On each meeting we rotate the chair of the QA meeting to make easier for everybody to keep up with the tasks that involve chairing the meeting. 

To make it easier for new people to start chairing the meeting, I have included a list of these activities.

=== Before the meeting ===

==== One week before the meeting ====

Review the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings|meeting agenda]]</nowiki> making sure that:

* The time and date are correctly set to next meeting (you also need to change it in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Header|header]]</nowiki>
* The recurring items are kept there:
** Review previous action items (all)
** Community Efforts/Testing
** Automated/Systems Testing
** Engineering Team Bug Status
** Any Other Business
** Selection of new chair -- <yourself>
* The non recurring agenda items from last meeting are deleted. 

==== First thing on Tuesday the week of the meeting ====

One day before the meeting you need to send a meeting alert to the mailing list, asking for topics. The template of the email can be:

<pre>

Subject: Meeting tomorrow - 17:00 UTC - #ubuntu-meeting
Hello all!

Just a quick reminder that tomorrow (<date>) we are having a
regular QA meeting at 17:00 UTC at #ubuntu-meeting. Chair will be (<chair>).

Agenda, so far, looks like this:

<copy the agenda at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings>

* item1
* item2
* item3

Please, add your agenda items, as usual, at:

     https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

Thanks,

</pre>

=== During the meeting ===

We hold our meetings at #ubuntu-meeting, and we have a Meeting Bot to help us tracking our meetings.

Some commands you will need to use:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| #startmeeting
| Tells the bot to start listening. Sets the meeting chair to whoever issues this command
|-
| [TOPIC]
| Records a topic of discussion (Can only be issued by the meeting chair)
|-
| [PROGRESS REPORT]]
| Records the progress of a particular topic etc (Can only be issued by meeting chair)
|-
| [IDEA]
| Records an idea releated to the current topic of discussion (Can be used by everyone)
|-
| [ACTION]
| Records an action that is decided on (Can only be issued by the meeting chair)
|-
| [AGREED]
| Records and agreement on a idea (Can only be issued by the meeting chair)
|-
| [LINK]
| Records a URL link of any format
|-
| [VOTE]
| Starts a vote. (Can only be issued by the meeting chair)
|-
| +1 / -1 / +0
| Records a vote for the current [VOTE]. (Can be used by everyone)
|-
| [ENDVOTE]
| Finishes the current [VOTE] (Can only be issued by the meeting chair)
|-
| #endmeeting
| Ends the meeting (Can only be issued by the meeting chair)
|}

Remember that, as chair, you will need to moderate the conversation, asking for questions, giving voice and starting the topics when the conversation finishes.

==== Handy commands ====

<pre>
[TOPIC] Previous Actions
[TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing
[TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing
[TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)
[TOPIC] Other Topics
[TOPIC] Chair Selection - $ shuf -e <people attending> | head -1
</pre>

=== After the meeting ===

After the meeting, the chair needs to create a summary of the meeting and put it in the wiki:

# Update the <nowiki>[[QATeam-Meetings|meeting main page]]</nowiki> with the next meeting date and the next chair.
# Create a new page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings/QA/yyyyMMdd (the page will be automatically linked at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings/)
# The page will have two main sections, Summary and Logs.
## The summary section is a summary written by the chair about the topics talked about in the meeting and the actions from them
## The Logs is just a dump of the logs generated by our Meeting Bot and that you can find at: http://www.novarata.net/mootbot/ .
# Send the summary (only the summary! never the logs) to the mailing list. Here is a possible template of the email:
<pre>
Hi,

Here are the minutes of our weekly QA Meeting at #ubuntu-meeting. They
can also be found online with the IRC logs at 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings/<yyyyMMdd>

<Include the summary of the meeting>

Next meeting will be <date> at <time>UTC. <next-chair> will be the next chair.

Thanks,

</pre>
