{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by phillw at 14:13:34 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-11-14.13.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Ubuntu Updates

* Ubuntu Flavor Updates

* Other topics

Meeting ended at 14:39:51 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* balloons (29)
* phillw (11)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (2)

=== Full Log ===

 14:13:34 <phillw> #startmeeting

 14:13:34 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jul 11 14:13:34 2012 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 14:13:34 <meetingology> 

 14:13:34 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 14:13:44 <phillw> #chair balloons

 14:13:44 <meetingology> Current chairs: balloons phillw

 14:14:10 <balloons> I hit that so many times.. nothing showed..

 14:14:11 <balloons> zzzzzzz

 14:14:16 <balloons> anyways, who's all here?

 14:15:50 <balloons> heh, let's go look at the topics we have

 14:15:52 <phillw> hmm, looks like a short meeting!

 14:16:04 <balloons> yes, which is just as well

 14:16:47 <balloons> [Topic] Ubuntu Updates

 14:16:53 <balloons> hey! it worked

 14:17:44 <balloons> so updates for ubuntu.. well, the desktop stuff is starting to land. We've had the kernel call for testing going on, and added the twist of trying to ensure we have a range of hardware being tested

 14:18:52 <balloons> unity is on the radar to start going through some testing iterations I hope, and i suspect we'll also start to see more special testing runs as features start to land

 14:19:11 <balloons> alpha 3 should be a few things, and the period between it and beta will be busy!

 14:22:51 <balloons> Also, I'm started looking at the ARM testcases and will be asking around for folks interested in ARM soon

 14:23:00 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Flavor Updates

 14:23:14 <balloons> phillw, since your here.. take the lead

 14:23:51 <phillw> in terms of things landing, we're similar to ubuntu. The applications we're going to ship are now getting added

 14:23:59 <phillw> bug 1018533 has been resolved

 14:24:01 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1018533 in ubiquity (Ubuntu Quantal) "Cannot manually change partitions" [High,Triaged] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1018533

 14:24:34 <phillw> however bug 1007394 really needs a bit of love, as it completely blocks the ppc alternate.

 14:24:35 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1007394 in mdadm (Ubuntu) "Quantal daily fails to complete installation" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1007394

 14:25:39 <phillw> I'm, not sure as to if to raise its importance to critical as it stops the installation deaed?

 14:25:41 <balloons> ohh, inreresting

 14:25:53 <phillw> *dead*

 14:26:00 <balloons> yes, for the ppc image it's dead right/

 14:26:15 <balloons> btw, how's the no firefox ppc build bug coming along?

 14:26:54 <phillw> julien is still working on it, and has included another browser for the time being (the name of which escapes me!).

 14:27:50 <balloons> gotcha

 14:28:22 <phillw> Midori

 14:28:45 <balloons> yes, pretty neat little browser

 14:29:44 <phillw> that's all to report from lubuntu.

 14:31:54 <balloons> alright, let's see if any other flavors are here and wish to speak up?

 14:32:21 <balloons> kubuntu, xubuntu, ubuntu studio, edubuntu, mythbuntu?

 14:33:53 <balloons> If not, we'll move on

 14:34:05 <balloons> [TOPIC] Other topics

 14:34:21 <balloons> Ok, lastly does anyone have anything else they wish to add to the agenda?

 14:36:43 <balloons> ok, so I'll just finish my final pieces

 14:37:07 <balloons> I wanted to highlight again that we're doing daily iso tests this week as part of our 2 week cadence for testing the dailies

 14:37:29 <balloons> phillw, I'll bring up that bug btw.. thanks for bringing it to my attn

 14:38:34 <balloons> If your doing any installs or messing around with the daily cd's this week, please file reports of success of failure against the dailies.

 14:39:29 <balloons> I think that's all folks!

 14:39:51 <balloons> #endmeeting
