{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Summary ==

Thank you for your interest in helping ubuntu quality! This page will cover the basic setup and workflow for the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles#Tester|tester role]]</nowiki> within the ubuntu quality team.

=== Getting stuck ===

Should you get stuck at any point, don't be afraid to ask for help. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Contact|We are available to contact in many different ways]]</nowiki>. Get in touch and we'll be glad to help!

== Setup ==

Before undertaking any of the work below you must first ensure you have installed the version of ubuntu that is currently in development. To install the development version of ubuntu on your machine, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/DevelopmentInstall|checkout this guide]]</nowiki>.

== Activities ==

After you have installed the development version of ubuntu, the following activities are available to you to help ubuntu. You can do any or all of the activities listed below at any time. Pick one and help us today! We appreciate your test results, verification, bug reports and triage activities!

=== Exploratory Testing ===

With an installed version of the development release up and running, you can perform exploratory testing against any packages of components you wish. Go wild! Try and break things! See if the new software can handle the unexpected, or even the normal use cases. If you find a bug, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/Tester#Report_a_bug|report it]]</nowiki>!

=== Triage bug reports ===

In addition to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/Tester#Report_a_bug|filing bugs you find while running the development release]]</nowiki>, you can also help confirm and triage existing bug reports. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Bug%20triage|See this wiki page]]</nowiki> for a full explanation of the triage process. It will help you understand what bugs need triaged and how to do so.

=== Provide Test Results ===

Ready to do some hands-on testing? You can help us by testing the applications and images produced by ubuntu. See below for details on each type of hands-on testing.

==== ISO Testing ====

Help submit results for the ubuntu images! Everything install/upgrade ok on your machine using today's image? Check out the <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|isotracker]]</nowiki> for a list of testcases to perform against the images. 

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Walkthrough|Here's a guide]]</nowiki> to using the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Testdrive|Testdrive]]</nowiki> tool and submitting your first iso testcase result.

==== Ubuntu Touch Testing ====

Got a supported phablet device? Help us by running and reporting bugs you find within in the ubuntu touch images. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TouchTesting|Check out this page for full details]]</nowiki> to get ubuntu touch on your device and help test the images!

==== Application Testing ====

Want to help out by testing an application? We have manual testcases for the default applications and more inside ubuntu. Checkout the <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/|packages tracker]]</nowiki> for a list of testcases you can perform using your ubuntu installation.

Here's a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Cadence/Walkthrough|guide to using the tracker and submitting an result for an application testcase]]</nowiki>.

==== Hardware Testing ====

Want to run your hardware through tests to ensure everything is working properly? Checkout the <nowiki>[[http://laptop.qa.ubuntu.com/|hardware tracker]]</nowiki> for a list of testcase you can perform against your machine.

Here's a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Laptop/Procedures|guide to using the hardware tracker and submitting your results]]</nowiki>.

== Other activities ==

=== Calls for Testing ===

During the cycle you may also see notifications asking for testing against a specific package or piece of software. Make sure you are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Contact#Primary_Contact_Information|signed up to the ubuntu quality mailing list and social media]]</nowiki> to ensure you receive the call for testing. Follow the directions given as part of the call to participate. 

=== Report a bug ===

While you are running the development release and using it on a regular basis you may encounter a bug.

If the bug occurs because of a crash, follow the apport prompts to file the bug and add the proper logs along with it. <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Development_release|See this page for full details]]</nowiki> on writing a proper bug report and for using apport to help report your crash. '''Note, apport is not turned on in the development release until around the alpha 1 milestone'''. 

If the bug isn't the result of a crash or if apport has not been turned on yet for the development release, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Non-crash_hardware_and_desktop_application_bugs|file the bug manually using this guide]]</nowiki>.

'''Remember to provide enough information to allow a developer to reproduce your bug if possible!'''

=== Revamping the bug reporting process ===

During the last vUDS we spoke about changing how bugs are reported by end users in ubuntu. You can see the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-1308-quality-reporting-bugs|blueprint here]]</nowiki>. Anyone wishing to be a part of this effort should contact <nowiki>[[balloons|balloons]]</nowiki>.
