{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions
* Blueprints Update Precise
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-builds-smoke-testing  (gema, 17:07:39)
** #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-boot-speed-testing  (gema, 17:11:36)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-kernel-sru  (gema, 17:11:55)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-standard-sru-testing  (gema, 17:12:19)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-test-case-management-tool  (gema, 17:13:48)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-backlog  (gema, 17:17:07)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UnderstandingJenkinsResults   (gema, 17:25:02)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-qa-regression-testing  (gema, 17:36:59)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-automated-test-submissions  (gema, 17:38:42)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-metrics  (gema, 17:39:01)
** Community Tasks - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TasksPrecise  (gema, 17:39:55)

* Update Lubuntu

* Update Xubuntu

* Update Ubuntu

* Other Topics

* Chairing, anyone?

''ACTION:'' patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins  (gema, 17:01:51)

''ACTION:'' gema to talk to hggdh about some jenkins training for the community  (gema, 17:11:12)

''ACTION:'' gema to move the standard sru testing blueprint to the end  (gema, 17:13:35)

Meeting ended at 17:50:48 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins
* gema to talk to hggdh about some jenkins training for the community
* gema to move the standard sru testing blueprint to the end

=== Action items, by person ===

* gema
* * gema to talk to hggdh about some jenkins training for the community
* * gema to move the standard sru testing blueprint to the end

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gema (155)
* alourie (63)
* roignac (24)
* brendand (14)
* besmirgogu (13)
* nuclearbob (7)
* phillw (7)
* meetingology (6)
* alourie|web (6)
* jibel (4)
* kalosaurusrex (1)

=== Full Log ===

 16:59:59 <gema> #startmeeting QA Meeting

 16:59:59 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Dec 14 16:59:59 2011 UTC.  The chair is gema. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 16:59:59 <meetingology> 

 16:59:59 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:00:18 <gema> hello, can you raise your hand if you are present and reading ?

 17:00:23 * alourie preps his cut of tea

 17:00:25 <roignac> o/

 17:00:26 <alourie> o/

 17:00:34 <nuclearbob> 0/

 17:00:39 <nuclearbob> er

 17:00:39 * alourie s/cut/cup

 17:00:40 <nuclearbob> o/

 17:00:43 <kalosaurusrex> o/ (but I might be afk for a bit in a min)

 17:00:50 <gema> kalosaurusrex: no probs

 17:00:51 <phillw> o/

 17:01:00 <gema> excellent, so let's get started

 17:01:09 <gema> #topic Previous Actions

 17:01:21 <gema> so we had patrickmw with one action from last week

 17:01:27 <besmirgogu> hi new to the meeting

 17:01:33 <gema> he told me he couldn't make it today, so we'll keep the action for next week

 17:01:38 <gema> hi besmirgogu , welcome!

 17:01:51 <gema> #action patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins

 17:01:51 * meetingology patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins

 17:01:51 <besmirgogu> hi everybody

 17:02:03 <gema> #topic Blueprints Update Precise

 17:02:11 <alourie> o/

 17:02:21 <gema> alourie: go for it

 17:02:27 <alourie> regarding previous actions

 17:02:33 <brendand> o/

 17:02:42 <gema> yes, alourie

 17:02:48 <alourie> how about posting smoke test cases that we run?

 17:03:01 <gema> alourie: do you mean results?

 17:03:01 <alourie> was it posted somewhere?

 17:03:07 <alourie> no, the tests

 17:03:21 <gema> give me a sec

 17:03:50 <roignac> i guess, patrickmw should present the list of launchpad project, and there we can get the code for unittests

 17:04:06 <alourie> ah

 17:04:07 <roignac> s/project/projects

 17:04:18 <alourie> ok, so I'll get back to this later then

 17:04:23 <alourie> ..

 17:04:24 <gema> alourie, roignac , this is the code that runs, as far as I know: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-server-iso-testing

 17:04:46 <gema> I am in the process of reviewing it and trying to make some sense of the testing we are running

 17:04:55 <gema> I don't believe we have test case descriptions yet

 17:04:59 <gema> but we will

 17:05:01 <alourie> gema: looks like it

 17:05:14 <alourie> ok, great, I'll look at it later

 17:05:14 <gema> alourie: where?

 17:05:18 <gema> ok

 17:05:21 <gema> brendand: ?

 17:05:40 <brendand> can you clarify what it means 'conform our automated testing'?

 17:05:54 <brendand> what does the package need to have?

 17:05:56 <gema> brendand: anything that we run and publish results on jenkins

 17:06:07 <brendand> so packages with automated tests?

 17:06:24 <gema> brendand: no, test cases that we are running automatically in jenkins

 17:06:34 <gema> is the list patrickmw is putting together

 17:06:59 <brendand> gema - ok, i think i understand now

 17:07:15 <gema> brendand: I am not clear what to expect myself either, so let's keep an open mind

 17:07:30 <gema> moving on to the blueprints themselves then

 17:07:39 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-builds-smoke-testing

 17:07:50 <gema> We have created a new dashboard by installing some jenkins plugins, but it is not 100% there yet. We are looking into aggregating results to show all the results for each ISO together and to show build number

 17:07:57 <gema> Link: https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Precise%20ISO%20Testing%20Dashboard/view/Daily/

 17:08:23 <gema> any question?

 17:09:08 <alourie> looks great

 17:09:12 <alourie> greenish :-)

 17:09:28 <gema> alourie: that's wrong, today we had a failure in the lab and nothing run

 17:09:33 <gema> it should be all red

 17:09:34 <alourie> ha!

 17:09:38 <gema> we are working on it x)

 17:09:39 <alourie> that's funny

 17:09:42 <gema> yep

 17:09:46 <alourie> so

 17:09:51 <alourie> I'm thinking

 17:10:02 <alourie> is it possible to have, like, a session on Jenkins?

 17:10:15 <alourie> to realize better what it is and what it isn't?

 17:10:23 <alourie> and how do things work ther?

 17:10:24 <alourie> e

 17:10:37 <gema> what do you mean a session on jenkins?

 17:10:38 <alourie> ..

 17:10:42 <gema> ahh, like a training session?

 17:10:46 <alourie> yes

 17:10:58 <gema> indeed, hggdh has been putting a wiki together, I can ask him

 17:10:59 <alourie> even if it take 15 minutes

 17:11:12 <gema> #action gema to talk to hggdh about some jenkins training for the community

 17:11:12 * meetingology gema to talk to hggdh about some jenkins training for the community

 17:11:14 <alourie> great, appreciate it

 17:11:20 <gema> no prob

 17:11:25 <gema> moving on then

 17:11:36 <gema> #subtopic #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-boot-speed-testing

 17:11:44 <gema> no update today, since patrick is not here, but he is actively working on this

 17:11:55 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-kernel-sru

 17:12:09 <gema> sconklin is not around this week, but he told me he didn't have much to report

 17:12:19 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-standard-sru-testing

 17:12:29 <gema> jibel didn't have anything to report either

 17:12:44 * gema has been doing some questioning before the meeting :D

 17:12:44 <jibel> this blueprint is not started yet

 17:12:52 <gema> ah, jibel you are there

 17:12:54 <gema> ok

 17:13:07 <jibel> hi o/

 17:13:10 <gema> so maybe I should move it to the end of the list

 17:13:35 <gema> #action gema to move the standard sru testing blueprint to the end

 17:13:35 * meetingology gema to move the standard sru testing blueprint to the end

 17:13:48 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-test-case-management-tool

 17:13:50 <jibel> I'll start it after https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-p-upload-intermediary

 17:13:59 <gema> yes?

 17:14:02 <jibel> because we'll use the same tool to test the packages

 17:14:08 <gema> ok, sounds good

 17:14:25 <gema> so regarding case conductor

 17:14:35 <gema> We've gathered the requirements for case conductor and sent them to the Mozilla QA team. Please, see my last email to the Case Conductor thread in the list for details

 17:14:49 <alourie> o/

 17:14:54 <gema> yes, alourie

 17:15:09 <alourie> will you have an official "meeting" with Mozilla folks?

 17:15:29 <gema> alourie: I am not sure, I asked them at the bottom of the email how they wanted to proceed

 17:15:49 <gema> alourie: I will let you know if it happens, it can be open to more people than just me

 17:16:03 <alourie> ok

 17:16:28 <gema> but I sent the email to the Project Manager because I had the original discussion with him

 17:16:35 <gema> to advice on how to proceed

 17:16:58 <gema> ok, moving on then

 17:17:07 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-backlog

 17:17:22 <gema> any updates on wikis or stuff like that?

 17:17:44 <roignac> o/

 17:17:46 <alourie> o/

 17:17:58 <gema> roignac: ?

 17:18:09 <roignac> we have started updating the testcases

 17:18:23 <roignac> some for nautilus and desktopwhole are under review

 17:18:43 <gema> roignac: sounds excellent, you could send an email to the list asking for feedback on those

 17:18:52 <roignac> so we need a qualified review for them in docs.google.com shpreadsheet

 17:19:05 <roignac> ok, will do

 17:19:19 <gema> yep, I will set some time aside tomorrow for the review

 17:19:38 <gema> alourie: ?

 17:19:54 <alourie> ok, so I wrote a short guide for rewriting test cases

 17:20:01 <alourie> I'd love some feedback for that

 17:20:11 <gema> you sent the link to the list, didn't you?

 17:20:15 <alourie> yes

 17:20:29 <alourie> additionally, I started rewriting wiki, so thanks gema for comments

 17:20:30 <roignac> alourie, I've been using it, seems rather useful, thanks

 17:20:41 <alourie> I'd like to have more feedback for wiki as well!

 17:20:51 <gema> ok, it may be good if you asked for the feedback on a more formal email

 17:20:52 <alourie> but overall, I see it progressing well

 17:21:00 <alourie> gema: I have

 17:21:11 <gema> alourie: it may help if you say this is the guide , and I would like to have feedback by the end of this week or so

 17:21:17 <alourie> or, rather, you mean more formal that the one I sent?

 17:21:18 <gema> sothat people know when is the deadline

 17:21:24 <gema> yep

 17:21:28 <gema> a formal review request

 17:21:39 <alourie> ah

 17:21:41 <alourie> ok

 17:21:53 <gema> so that fromt he topic of the email, it sounds like there's work to do

 17:21:55 * alourie wrotes himself to set deadlines

 17:21:56 <gema> if you know what I mean

 17:22:04 <alourie> yes, sure

 17:22:14 <gema> it is just an orientation, but tends to give people a sense of urgency :)

 17:22:28 <alourie> indeed :-)

 17:22:45 <gema> ok, I will send you feedback on that tomorrow too

 17:22:54 <alourie> great, thank you

 17:23:10 <gema> hggdh: are you around?

 17:23:18 <alourie> so, I will continue working on these items with mail list, it feel it is better for brainstorming and pushing ideas back and forth

 17:23:30 <gema> alourie: agreed

 17:23:42 <alourie> additionally, I may write a general guide for writing test cases

 17:23:51 <alourie> I think we need something like that

 17:23:59 <gema> I thought that is what you wrote on that wiki

 17:24:14 <alourie> that wiki is more "rewriting" oriented, not a generic one

 17:24:18 <gema> ahh, ok

 17:24:21 <gema> sounds good then

 17:24:29 <alourie> it could be a basis for the generic document

 17:24:37 <gema> ok, excellent

 17:24:51 <alourie> I'm done

 17:24:52 <alourie> ..

 17:24:55 <gema> so, on behalf of hggdh , this is the jenkins documentation he has written:

 17:25:02 <gema> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UnderstandingJenkinsResults

 17:25:21 <brendand> o/

 17:25:22 <gema> let us know on the list if there's anything that you don't understand or so

 17:25:26 <gema> brendand: ?

 17:25:37 <brendand> i wanted to comment on the test cases re-write a bit

 17:25:49 <gema> ok, go for it, I was done with jenkins anyway :)

 17:26:09 <brendand> should we be taking the opportunity now to split test cases out where they need to be?

 17:26:18 <gema> I think so

 17:26:26 <brendand> e.g. 'Check that user can create files and folders, move files to folders and delete files and folders to Trash'

 17:26:30 <brendand> is not a test case

 17:26:50 <gema> yes, splitting it would give us better understanding of problems, when there is one

 17:26:56 <roignac> o/

 17:27:00 <gema> and more realistic results

 17:27:00 <brendand> roignac - btw, i'm not pointing the finger at you

 17:27:05 <gema> go for it roignac

 17:27:16 <gema> speak freely guys, we are discussing a topic :)

 17:27:18 <roignac> I completely agree with brendand

 17:27:31 <roignac> as testcases should be rewritten

 17:27:41 <roignac> so I guess, we should have a plan for this

 17:27:55 <gema> what kind of plan, roignac ?

 17:28:18 <roignac> a list features, at least, like: Nautilus: 1) Cover folder creation, 2)File creation etc.

 17:28:24 <brendand> i think we should say here (and on the mailing list) that you shouldn't shy away from re-working test cases where they don't work

 17:28:44 <roignac> also, we would need an updated list of application, included in base Ubuntu installation

 17:29:07 <roignac> as writing testcases for Banshee should get less priority than Rhythmbox, as rhythmbox is default one

 17:29:07 <gema> roignac: I believe kalosaurusrex is working on that

 17:29:19 <roignac> gema, great, that would be very useful

 17:29:21 <brendand> roignac - if test cases are there for an application which is not in ubuntu now then they should be removed or deprecated i guess

 17:29:30 <alourie> o/

 17:29:37 <gema> go for it, alourie

 17:29:38 <brendand> roignac - but writing new ones is outside scope for now mayeb

 17:29:53 <alourie> I want to get focus a little bit here

 17:30:10 <alourie> I'd love to have all test cases rewritten

 17:30:56 <alourie> but (putting the "effort coordinator hat"), I think we need to handle ISO testing cases first

 17:31:01 <alourie> so that for the next alpha/beta, or when Constructor is ready - we have them done

 17:31:03 <roignac> i'd love to see that as a wiki page - default application and their features

 17:31:11 <alourie> or, at least, some part of them

 17:31:33 <roignac> alourie: agree, ISO testcases should get the highest priority

 17:31:42 <phillw> +1

 17:31:44 <alourie> so we would concentrate on them

 17:31:45 <gema> yes, sounds reasonable

 17:31:53 <alourie> at least for the starters..

 17:32:11 <alourie> so I can volunteer myself picking a set of Images to rewrite

 17:32:24 <gema> yep, we could also update the wiki once the test cases are reviewed, so that people can use them before case conductor is online

 17:32:35 <alourie> yes

 17:32:49 <alourie> I'll just pick a couple from each category we have now

 17:33:35 <gema> ok

 17:33:46 <roignac> i've already rewritten desktopwhole testcase - and I'd love to get some feedback on it

 17:33:57 <gema> indeed, we'll give you feedback

 17:34:01 <roignac> as it might be a good example and a template for installation cases

 17:34:07 <roignac> thanks!

 17:34:45 <gema> roignac: you may want to have a look at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Test+analysis+and+specification+for+Ubiquity.pdf

 17:34:51 <gema> in case it gives you any idea

 17:35:07 <gema> I put this together last cycle but didn't get the chance to extract any test cases from there

 17:35:17 <gema> because we had more pressing matters at hand

 17:35:34 <gema> it may help with the rewriting in some cases, but I don't expect us to run all of them manually

 17:35:40 <gema> the idea is automating them in the long run

 17:35:51 <roignac> gema, thanks, would be useful

 17:36:08 <gema> any feedback on it also welcome

 17:36:17 <gema> it's still under review

 17:36:17 <roignac> a basic test is already automated btw, so others will follow, i'm sure

 17:36:24 <gema> yes

 17:36:37 <gema> ok, so moving on to next topic unless someone has anything else

 17:36:59 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-qa-regression-testing

 17:37:03 <gema> nuclearbob: ?

 17:37:20 <nuclearbob> I've got an autotest package ready for the new lab hardware

 17:37:39 <nuclearbob> I'm determining whether we want the qrt tests as another package, or whether just a tarball is fine

 17:37:59 <nuclearbob> I've been running them on some daily builds and having good luck so far

 17:38:07 <nuclearbob> ..

 17:38:20 <gema> good thanks, any questions?

 17:38:34 <gema> moving on then

 17:38:42 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-automated-test-submissions

 17:38:52 <gema> again, nothing from patrick today

 17:39:01 <gema> #subtopic https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-p-qa-metrics

 17:39:09 <gema> I have been doing some code coverage trialling and discovered how to use gcov and lcov. As it happens, the development teams are starting to make changes to their makefiles to enable coverage as well

 17:39:25 <gema> I need to talk to the tech lead coordinating that to be able to make it happen. I will probably do that in January during our gathering in Europe

 17:39:55 <gema> #subtopic Community Tasks - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/TasksPrecise

 17:40:11 <gema> Anything to report on any of the tasks we are working on that we haven't covered yet?

 17:40:24 <gema> ok, moving on then

 17:40:35 <gema> #topic Update Lubuntu

 17:40:39 <gema> phillw: ?

 17:41:22 <phillw> Hi, things are going okay - with the slight exception that someone just noticed that Chromium hasn't been building since 25th November last year.

 17:41:23 <gema> ok, we can get the update later if he comes around

 17:41:29 <gema> ahh, you were writing, sorry

 17:41:52 <phillw> The alpha seems stable enough

 17:42:07 <gema> phillw: so noone has been using chromium or were they using an outdated version?

 17:42:38 <phillw> as far as I understand there is currently no maintainer for Chromium, so I'm not sure what will happen.

 17:43:10 <gema> ok

 17:43:46 <gema> anything else? questions?

 17:44:11 * alourie|web has a huge lag

 17:44:12 <gema> #topic Update Xubuntu

 17:44:18 <besmirgogu> I would have many questions

 17:44:21 <besmirgogu> :)

 17:44:24 <besmirgogu> since i am new

 17:44:26 <besmirgogu> to all this

 17:44:32 <gema> besmirgogu: we have 14 mins, shoot

 17:44:52 <besmirgogu> how do i start getting involved

 17:44:57 <besmirgogu> preferably testing releases

 17:45:13 <gema> by subscribing to the ubuntu-qa list

 17:45:26 <gema> and saying what you know how to do and what you'd like to do

 17:45:31 <besmirgogu> ok

 17:45:36 <gema> someone will guide you in the right direction

 17:45:41 <besmirgogu> ok thanks

 17:45:49 <alourie|web> besmirgogu: and bring friends

 17:45:56 <gema> we are in between releases now, so you have some time to learn how to do the testing before Alpha 2

 17:45:57 <besmirgogu> I will try

 17:46:07 <besmirgogu> that is great news for me

 17:46:08 <gema> in between milestones, I mean

 17:46:18 <besmirgogu> i really want to help

 17:46:27 <gema> excellent, thanks a lot!

 17:46:31 <alourie|web> besmirgogu: excellent, thanks

 17:46:40 <gema> I have to move on now, since charlie doesn't seem to be around

 17:46:45 <gema> and we need to wrap up the meeting

 17:46:55 <gema> #topic Update Ubuntu

 17:47:01 <gema> jibel: do you have anything to say here?

 17:48:18 <gema> ok, so moving on then

 17:48:27 <gema> #topic Other Topics

 17:48:31 <gema> anything else?

 17:48:56 <gema> #topic Chairing, anyone?

 17:49:08 <gema> ok, so .. does anyone want to chair next week's meeting?

 17:49:13 <alourie|web> I just wanted to say, amazing week, happy to be part of the team

 17:49:16 * gema forgot to ask last week

 17:49:30 <phillw> As I said, at a pinch I will do so if there are no other volunteers

 17:49:32 <gema> alourie|web: me too, it is really exciting times

 17:49:50 <alourie|web> I don't have stable schedule, so I won't volunteer for now

 17:49:54 <gema> phillw: I can do it too, I am around next week, I thought it'd be fair to offer it if someone wants to do it

 17:49:57 <gema> :)

 17:50:14 <gema> I think we will have a week off for Xmas unless everyone plans to be around

 17:50:21 <phillw> I'll keep my powder dry, in that case :)

 17:50:31 <gema> cool, so I will do it next week!

 17:50:38 <alourie|web> yea!

 17:50:40 <gema> thanks everyone for your time

 17:50:48 <gema> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
