{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==
  
* SRU Testing
** Over the past week 112 packages have been published to stable releases.
** The complete list is available at http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
** A total of 37 packages have been published to lucid: 
** 11 packages published to lucid-updates, 
** 14 packages published to lucid-security, 
** 12 packages published to lucid-proposed
** A total of 48 packages have been published to maverick
** 18 packages published to maverick-updates,
** 14 packages published to maverick-security,
** 16 packages published to maverick-proposed
** A total of 13 packages have been published to karmic
** 1 package published to karmic-updates,
** 12 packages published to karmic-security
** A total of 10 packages have been published to hardy
** 1 package published to hardy-updates,
** 9 packages published to hardy-security
** A total of 4 packages have been published to dapper
** 1 package published to dapper-updates,
** 3 packages published to dapper-security
** Thanks to all the contributors who helped with testing.
** As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!

* Burndown Updates
** Natty Alpha 3 Work Items
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-3.html
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-3.html
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/hardware-kernel-n-bug-handling
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-qa-n-testing-different-architectures
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-server-n-qa

* Kernel Regression Testing
** Regression testing for the Lucid and Maverick kernels
** Two bugs found affecting the EC2
** The kernels for Lucid and Maverick were already copied to updates so if you're using any of those releases you'll notice that a new kernel is available for update
** The full results of the testing are available at:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-lucid-2.6.32-29.58
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-maverick-2.6.35-27.48

* Any Other Business
** Status of Natty Alpha3 Testing as of this meeting
** Test Case Coverage	36/38
** Mandatory Tests: 111/152
** Run Once Tests: 7/40

* Chair for next meeting
  Next meeting is on March 9 at 17:00 UTC, chair will be bdmurray

== Log ==
== Meeting opened by charlie-tca at 18:01 ==

 <''''''> Welcome to the weekly QA meeting

 <''''''> The full agenda is at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

 <''''''> [TOPIC]

===  ===
 <''''''> [TOPIC] review previous action items

=== review previous action items ===
 <''''''> that works

 <''''''> I don't recall any old business

 <''''''> charlie-tca: that's right

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU Report

=== SRU Report ===
 <''''''> jibel: your turn

 <''''''> thanks charlie-tca

 <''''''> Hi all

 <''''''> Over the past week 112 packages have been published to stable releases

 <''''''> The complete list is available at

 <''''''> [LINK] http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html''
|}

 <''''''> * A total of 37 packages have been published to lucid

 <''''''>   * 11 packages published to lucid-updates: brasero, facter, fuse, gdm, moon, mysql-dfsg-5.1, squid, tcptrack, tzdata, varnish, xkeyboard-config

 <''''''>   * 14 packages published to lucid-security: cacti, clamav, firefox, fuse, linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.32, linux-fsl-imx51, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, logwatch, openjdk-6, pango1.0, samba, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''>   * 12 packages published to lucid-proposed: apt, dajaxice, debian-archive-keyring, kopete-cryptography, linux-meta, metacity, ncmpcpp, openssh, python-pip, squid, txaws, xserver-xorg-input-fpit

 <''''''> * A total of 48 packages have been published to maverick

 <''''''>   * 18 packages published to maverick-updates: ampache, bash-completion, brasero, facter, glib2.0, inkscape, libdbi, moon, munin, rhythmbox, ripperx, tar, tcptrack, tzdata, universalindentgui, varnish, xkeyboard-config, xserver-xorg-video-intel

 <''''''>   * 14 packages published to maverick-security: bind9, clamav, firefox, fuse, gitolite, linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.35, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, logwatch, openjdk-6, pango1.0, samba, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''>   * 16 packages published to maverick-proposed: apt-offline, dajaxice, debian-archive-keyring, ecryptfs-utils, gnu-smalltalk, kdepim, kdepim-runtime, linux, linux-meta, network-manager, pdfmod, pm-utils, poppler, txaws, ubuntuone-client, wxwidgets2.8

 <''''''> * A total of 13 packages have been published to karmic

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to karmic-updates: tzdata

 <''''''>   * 12 packages published to karmic-security: clamav, firefox-3.5, fuse, linux, linux-ec2, linux-fsl-imx51, logwatch, openjdk-6, pango1.0, samba, sun-java6, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''> * A total of 10 packages have been published to hardy

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to hardy-updates: tzdata

 <''''''>   * 9 packages published to hardy-security: clamav, firefox-3.0, fuse, linux, logwatch, pango1.0, samba, sun-java6, xulrunner-1.9.2

 <''''''> * A total of 4 packages have been published to dapper

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to dapper-updates: langpack-locales

 <''''''>   * 3 packages published to dapper-security: linux-source-2.6.15, logwatch, samba

 <''''''> Thanks to all the contributors who helped with testing.

 <''''''> As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!

 <''''''> Any question ?

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> jibel: wow!

 <''''''> Thanks, jibel. that is a lot of packages

 <''''''> indeed, and lot of testers too,

 <''''''> That's right. Many thanks to all the testers

 <''''''> If there is no question, that's all from me.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Burndown updates

=== Burndown updates ===
 <''''''> marjo: your turn

 <''''''> hi folks

 <''''''> Natty Alpha 3 Work Items

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-3.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-3.html

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/hardware-kernel-n-bug-handling

 <''''''> bdmurray - on track for completion

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-qa-n-testing-different-architectures

 <''''''> jibel - may have to postpone, pending feedback from skaet & persia

 <''''''> jibel: any update on that work item?

 <''''''> marjo, not yet.

 <''''''> jibel: ok thx

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa

 <''''''> hggdh - on track for running tests on Alpha 3, but others may be postponed due to lack of working UEC tools after Alpha 2.

 <''''''> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-server-n-qa

 <''''''> hggdh - testing in progress for Alpha 3

 <''''''> hggdh is working w/ Daviey on those blocking bugs

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> thank you, marjo

 <''''''> Any questions on the burndown ?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any Other Business

=== Any Other Business ===
 <''''''> _o/

 <''''''> go pedro_

 <''''''> I'd like give a brief status on the kernel regression testing, i thought i added the item to the agenda but looks like the wiki didn't save that :-/

 <''''''> so During the past week and some days of the current we've been working on doing regression testing for the Lucid and Maverick kernels

 <''''''>  two bugs were found and filed as bug 725308 and bug 725089

 <''''''> Launchpad bug 725308 in linux (Ubuntu) "Lucid 2.6.32-29.58 /dev/mem is readable (affects: 1) (dups: 1) (heat: 264)" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/725308

 <''''''> Launchpad bug 725089 in linux (Ubuntu) "SECCOMP causes kernel panic on EC2 AMD64 image (affects: 1) (heat: 262)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/725089

 <''''''> both were found while doing ec2 testing so if you're not running that version of the kernel don't worry

 <''''''> the kernel team is already aware of those bugs and they think those are not really regressions

 <''''''> to see the status of them, just look at the bug page on lp

 <''''''> specially if you run Ubuntu on ec2

 <''''''> the kernels for Lucid and Maverick were already copied to updates so if you're using any of those releases you'll notice that a new kernel is available for update

 <''''''> if you want to see the full results of the testing, have a look to this pages:

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-lucid-2.6.32-29.58

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-maverick-2.6.35-27.48

 <''''''> charlie-tca, that's all unless there's a question/comment on the topic

 <''''''> super

 <''''''> Glad you brought that up, pedro_

 <''''''> pedro_ thx for the excellent summary and update

 <''''''> We are testing the images for Natty Alpha3 today! the testing seems to be going very good

 <''''''> you're welcome folks

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> charlie-tca: yes it is, and watch out for respins!

 <''''''> go ahead, jibel

 <''''''> pedro_: not really regressions?

 <''''''> Just a quick status about Natty Alpha3 Testing

 <''''''> Test Case Coverage	36/38

 <''''''> The 2 remaining test cases will be done today

 <''''''> Mandatory 	Tests: 111/152

 <''''''> Run Once Tests: 7/40

 <''''''> bdmurray, yeah for one they say that it  happens occasionally with older kernels in testing and the other appears to have always been present in Lucid, but not detected as the test was added late last year

 <''''''> So it's still time to join the testing of alpha3. if you have some spare cycles join #ubuntu-testing and check the list of uncovered test cases at http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/all/notcompleted ,

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> Thanks jibel

 <''''''> Any one else?

 <''''''> pedro_: hmm, okay thanks

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Selection of new chair

=== Selection of new chair ===
 <''''''> everyone's favorite part of this meeting

 <''''''> Do we have any volunteers to chair the 17:00 UTC meeting next week?

 <''''''> bdmurray: care to chair next week?

 <''''''> Aw, com'n. Gotta be someone likes to help?

 <''''''> marjo: I will. I need to get done todya

 <''''''> charlie-tca: this volunteer technique doesn't seem to work; we'll have to go on a rotation basis

 <''''''> I think you are correct.

 <''''''> charlie-tca: ok thx again!

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> I can do it

 <''''''> bdmurray: thx!

 <''''''> You want an action on that, marjo ?

 <''''''> Thank you, bdmurray

 <''''''> charlie-tca: not necessary

 <''''''> Okay

 <''''''> Next weeks chair will be bdmurray

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 18:23 ==
=== People Present ===
* charlie-tca

* marjo

* jibel

* pedro_

* ubot4

* bdmurray

* patrickmw

=== Actions Recorded ===
 None
