{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Summary ==
  
* Jean-Baptiste Lallement (jibel) is joining the Canonical QA team as Stable Release Updates Engineer. Before that, he's been a very active bug triager.
* SRU Testing -- jibel
** dapper
** 5 packages published
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-updates'''
*** '''3''' packages published to '''-security'''
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-proposed'''
** hardy
** 5 packages published
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-updates'''
*** '''3''' packages published to '''-security'''
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-proposed'''
** jaunty
** 6 packages published
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-updates'''
*** '''4''' packages published to '''-security'''
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-proposed'''
** karmic
** 9 packages published
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-updates'''
*** '''7''' packages published to '''-security'''
*** '''1''' packages published to '''-proposed'''
** lucid
** 46 packages published
*** '''22''' packages published to '''-updates'''
*** '''14''' packages published to '''-security'''
*** '''10''' packages published to '''-proposed'''

** Complete report is available at <nowiki>[[QATeam-SRUReports-2010-08-11]]</nowiki>

* Bug Day status -- pvillavi
** August 12th target will be the Operation Cleansweep which deals with reviewing patches and forwarding them to our Upstream partner projects.
** More information is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100812
** It is happening at #ubuntu-bugs and in #ubuntu-reviews

* Ubuntu 10.04.1 release has been postponed to next Tuesday, August 17th. 
* Next meeting will be happening in TWO weeks, rather than one, as most of us are sprinting next week. Chair will be Marjo.

== Meeting opened by ara at 17:00 ==
 <''''''> hello!

 <''''''> So, the agenda for today is:

 <''''''> # review previous action items (all)

 <''''''> # Introducing Jean-Baptiste Lallement

 <''''''> # SRU testing -- sbeattie, jibel

 <''''''> # Bug Day status -- pvillavi

 <''''''> # Ubuntu 10.04.1 Testing status -- ara

 <''''''> # Maverick Alpha 3 Spec Status -- all

 <''''''> # Selection of new chair -- ara

 <''''''> as always the agenda is available at

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings''
|}

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Review previous action items

=== Review previous action items ===
 <''''''> any action items?

 <''''''> I don't remember any

 <''''''> none that I recall, either

 <''''''> OK, let's move on, then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Introducing Jean-Baptiste Lallement

=== Introducing Jean-Baptiste Lallement ===
 <''''''> welcome jibel! would you like to do a short self intro?

 <''''''> OK, you may all know jibel, he's been always pretty active in the community

 <''''''> very active, in fact!

 <''''''> Hello I'm Jean-Baptiste (jibel).

 <''''''> For those who do not know me, I've been a bug triager for a few years now, mainly active on installation and upgrades issues.

 <''''''> Hello jibel :)

 <''''''> hello YokoZar

 <''''''> welcome, jibel!

 <''''''> jibel: welcome!

 <''''''> Welcome, jibel

 <''''''> sbeattie must be so happy, right now

 <''''''> jibel, welcome!

 <''''''> thank you all for your warm welcome !

 <''''''> jibel: welcome!

 <''''''> welcome jibel!

 <''''''> jibel: welcome!

 <''''''> hey jibel!

 <''''''> jibel has started this week in Canonical QA team

 <''''''> Yes, I'm now working on Stable Release Updates as a member of the QA team

 <''''''> This new activity let me less time to triage bugs and makes pedro_ happy because he can kick me from the first place of the hall of fame.

 <''''''> lol!

 <''''''> In my spare time I'm also the co-maintainer synaptic

 <''''''> You'll find the details about my Ubuntu involvement on my wiki page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JeanBaptisteLallement

 <''''''> Feel free to add a testimonial ;)

 <''''''> So, if you're a bug triager, a developer or a tester and are interested in finding bugs and tracking regressions in stable releases, fixing them or backporting from the development release,

 <''''''> or testing and reviewing the updates just reach me on irc or find my email on my lp page http://launchpad.net/~jibel .

 <''''''> Did you notice a regression in a package which went to -updates? ping me too.

 <''''''> jibel, great! thanks!

 <''''''> any other question for jibel, or can we move on?

 <''''''> Special thanks to sbeattie who did a really awesome job !

 <''''''> +1! we'll miss him dearly

* '''''' is quite confident jibel will do a great job, and generate more community nterest in SRU testing than he did.

 <''''''> 1... 2... 3... no question for me ? moving on.

* '''''' would still have both in the team

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU testing -- sbeattie, jibel

=== SRU testing -- sbeattie, jibel ===
 <''''''> I'll keep the flag if sbeattie agree.

 <''''''> by all means

 <''''''> the stable release updates details for this week is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/SRUReports/2010-08-11

 <''''''> A total of 71 packages have been published to stable releases

 <''''''> dapper: 5 packages published

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -updates

 <''''''>   3 packages published to -security

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -proposed

 <''''''> hardy: 5 packages published

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -updates

 <''''''>   3 packages published to -security

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -proposed

 <''''''> jaunty: 6 packages published

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -updates

 <''''''>   4 packages published to -security

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -proposed

 <''''''> karmic: 9 packages published

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -updates

 <''''''>   7 packages published to -security

 <''''''>   1 packages published to -proposed

 <''''''> high activity in lucid

 <''''''> lucid: 46 packages published

 <''''''>   22 packages published to -updates

 <''''''>   14 packages published to -security

 <''''''>   10 packages published to -proposed

 <''''''> Thanks to Alkis Georgopoulos, Ameet Paranjape, Lluis, Jamie Strandboge, Philip Muakovac, Micah Gersten, Vish, Fergal Daly, Jacob Helwig, Jean-Baptiste Lallement, komputes, Paul van Genderen, Ron S, scm, and Martin Jackson for testing packages in -proposed.

 <''''''> As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!

 <''''''> Do you have any question about the packages on the wiki page ?

 <''''''> looks good to me!

 <''''''> OK, thanks jibel!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Bug Day status -- pedro_

=== Bug Day status -- pedro_ ===
 <''''''> Hola!, nothing from previous weeks but...

 <''''''> For tomorrow we're planning a rocking bug day and our target will be the Operation Cleansweep

 <''''''> which deals with reviewing patches and forwarding them to our Upstream partner projects

 <''''''> so if you wanna learn about patch review workflow and make dholbach and nigelb happy then please join us!

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20100812

 <''''''> as you can see there some folks already started to work on it

 <''''''> thanks devildante and yofel ;-)

 <''''''> and by the way, we're always looking for new tasks/targets/ideas for the Bug Days

 <''''''> Has cleansweep been nearing its goal?

 <''''''> (of removing the backlog of patches)

 <''''''> so if you have one or a bunch please add those to the Planning page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Planning

 <''''''> YokoZar, well we can help to try to achieve that goal ;-)

 <''''''> looking at the graphs they need a lot

 <''''''> that's all from here ara, unless there's a question

 <''''''> pedro_, is this going to happen at #ubuntu-bugs? or #ubuntu-motu as it has a different target this time

 <''''''> ara, it's going to happen in two channels actually in #ubuntu-bugs and in #ubuntu-reviewers

 <''''''> so please join both tomorrow ;-)

 <''''''> pedro_, sure, noted! :-)

 <''''''> thanks pedro_!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Ubuntu 10.04.1 Testing status -- ara

=== Ubuntu 10.04.1 Testing status -- ara ===
 <''''''> OK, as you may have read at the ubuntu-devel mailing list, the release of Ubuntu 10.04.1 has been delayed to next Tuesday

 <''''''> August 17th

 <''''''> I guess that by the end of the week, or very early next week, the candidate images will appear in the tracker

 <''''''> [LINK] http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com''
|}

 <''''''> So, please, keep an eye open and help testing the ISOs!

 <''''''> jibel, a point release just on the following week ;-) not a bad start

 <''''''> OK, we can move on

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Maverick Alpha 3 Spec Status -- all

=== Maverick Alpha 3 Spec Status -- all ===
 <''''''> Yes and that makes me nervous.

 <''''''> OK, Alpha 3 was released and hopefully all the blueprints targeted to Alpha 3 finished

 <''''''> thanks for everyone's great work on the Alpha 3 work items

 <''''''> moving on to beta... http://people.canonical.com/~pitti/workitems/maverick/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-10.10-beta.html

 <''''''> marjo, can you please take care of changing the status of the bluprints for alpha 3 that were finished?

 <''''''> ara: yes, i think hggdh & i can clean that up, as necessary

 <''''''> [ACTION] marjo to review Alpha 3 blueprints statuses

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' marjo to review Alpha 3 blueprints statuses''
|}

 <''''''> ara: no need since they are all 100% complete for alpha 3

 <''''''> hggdh had to update his blueprints

 <''''''> oops

 <''''''> marjo, I mean the status as "Beta available", etc, etc

 <''''''> I thought I had

 <''''''> ara: ok will do

 <''''''> anything else on this topic?

 <''''''> marjo, do you have any other comments?

 <''''''> ara: no thx

 <''''''> OK, moving on

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Open Mic

=== Open Mic ===
 <''''''> Any other business that you want to discuss that were not part of the agenda?

 <''''''> I got something

 <''''''> Wanted to followup on the wine-checkbox stuff I mentioned last month

 <''''''> cr3, ^

 <''''''> For starters, it's found a kernel bug ;)

 <''''''> So it's working to some extent, however it's not yet merged.  I'll talk with cr3 about that separately I suppose

 <''''''> While creating the tests I realized that there was some potential for Wine programs as a performance metric as well as a regression test

 <''''''> Including, oddly enough, the Windows version of Phoronix

 <''''''> YokoZar: I was on vacation last week, so I was quite busy before and still cathing up. feel free to get in touch with me at your convenience though

 <''''''> (we already have native Phoronix in checkbox, so it would be interesting to compare)

 <''''''> cr3: perfect

 <''''''> Anyway I'd like to thank fader_ for the help with running it on real machines earlier

 <''''''> YokoZar: thx for your contribution & will pass on your thanks to fader_

 <''''''> YokoZar, thanks!

 <''''''> YokoZar, anything else?

 <''''''> OK, anybody else have another topic?

 <''''''> OK, last one then

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Selection of new chair -- ara

=== Selection of new chair -- ara ===
 <''''''> marjo, it has been a while ;-)

 <''''''> ara: are you nominating me?

 <''''''> But, first we have to decide what to do with next week meeting

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> many of us will be sprinting

 <''''''> ara: i propose we cancel it

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> ara: and i can chair the next one on 25 august

 <''''''> marjo, great, thanks :-)

 <''''''> and then I will chair

 <''''''> (the next next one, I mean)

 <''''''> now everybody wants to be the chair :D

 <''''''> ara, hggdh: thx

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> I think they took note of how bad I was...

 <''''''> OK, next meeting August 25th, 17:00UTC, marjo as the chair. And the next one, 1st September, hggdh as the chair

 <''''''> 1st September, 19UTC, of course

 <''''''> ack

 <''''''> OK, I think that we can wrap up

 <''''''> Thanks everybody and see you all in two weeks!

 <''''''> ara: ack & thx for chairing!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 17:43 ==
=== People Present ===
* pedro_

* ara

* charlie-tca

* marjo

* jibel

* YokoZar

* sbeattie

* ameetp

* bdmurray

* hggdh

* schwuk

* cr3

* bladernr

=== Actions Recorded ===
* marjo to review Alpha 3 blueprints statuses
