{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by balloons at 14:10:23 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-07-18-14.10.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Ubuntu Updates

* Ubuntu Flavors
''LINK:'' http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/benmcollins13/ubuntu/~3/-IS64CHats0/community-conundrum-powerpc.html   (balloons, 14:25:17)

* Other topics

Meeting ended at 14:41:31 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* balloons (32)
* phillw (13)
* meetingology (3)
* astraljava (3)
* ubottu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 14:10:23 <balloons> #startmeeting ubuntu QA

 14:10:23 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jul 18 14:10:23 2012 UTC.  The chair is balloons. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 14:10:23 <meetingology> 

 14:10:23 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 14:12:15 <balloons> who all is about?

 14:12:27 <phillw> o/

 14:12:50 <balloons> phillw,  I think this will be short and sweet

 14:12:56 <phillw> yup :)

 14:12:59 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Updates

 14:13:50 <balloons> Next week we'll have the alpha 3 milestone testing. Should be a good week, and the images are in a good state going in to the week. I, knock on wood, don't see us needing a ton of respins

 14:14:57 <balloons> Because we've reached the point in the cycle where features are landing (yay!), you can expect more testing of applications coming soon. Unity testing will be happening again this cycle among other things

 14:17:13 <balloons> I also was talking with the u+1 team and the folks running the dev version of ubuntu as there daily machine about expanding the package tracker to help their workflow with triaging problems, bug reports, and watching critical packages

 14:18:26 <balloons> The basic idea was to hand select some packages, and add some basic smoke testing for them. We'd monitor the versions as they update in the archive and we can keep a status on when things break and what bugs where found, etc

 14:18:38 <balloons> I hope to show an example and get more feedback soon

 14:18:41 <balloons> that's it from me

 14:18:44 <balloons> questions?

 14:18:53 <phillw> nope

 14:18:58 <balloons> alright

 14:19:04 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Flavors

 14:19:22 <balloons> so phillw, updates from lubuntu?

 14:19:36 <phillw> bug 1007394 is still an issue

 14:19:38 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 1007394 in mdadm (Ubuntu) "Quantal daily fails to complete installation" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/1007394

 14:19:58 <phillw> currently awaiting one of the ppc testers to try something for the devs.

 14:20:17 <phillw> lack of firefox in ppc has been fixed.

 14:20:49 <phillw> nothing else to report, testing is going well on the whole.

 14:24:01 <balloons> yay!

 14:24:13 <balloons> browsing on ff is restorede

 14:24:20 <balloons> did you see the plant article phillw on ppc?

 14:24:35 <phillw> no, do you have a link?

 14:25:17 <balloons> http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/benmcollins13/ubuntu/~3/-IS64CHats0/community-conundrum-powerpc.html

 14:25:28 <phillw> thanks

 14:26:01 <balloons> np.. not sure if you know who Ben is or not

 14:26:08 <balloons> regardless, his lament is on target

 14:27:38 <phillw> well, provided their remains a kernel available, lubuntu are pretty committed to have a ppc release.

 14:27:44 <phillw> *there*

 14:28:06 <balloons> yep, it's a good thing

 14:28:24 <balloons> ok, any other flavors about willing to share an update?

 14:28:35 <phillw> seems like we're the last hope for them.

 14:29:06 <astraljava> balloons: Not really, I've been really badly out of the loop recently... Sorry.

 14:30:18 <balloons> astraljava, that's ok -- how's alpha 3 looking for you?

 14:30:24 <balloons> I know it's hard to believe it's coming already

 14:36:29 <balloons> alright, so let's finish up

 14:36:34 <balloons> [TOPIC] Other topics

 14:36:40 <balloons> anything else to discuss anyone?

 14:39:35 <astraljava> We're supposedly having that discussion today, but I really don't know how Xubuntu is at the moment.

 14:39:43 * astraljava frowns

 14:39:58 <phillw> balloons: I replied to the plant article with a request for testers :)

 14:40:49 <balloons> phillw, hopefully it helps ppc users, and lubunutu

 14:41:03 <balloons> astraljava, :-( sorry to hear. I'm sure it will get sorted out

 14:41:18 <balloons> Well, I think that wraps everything up

 14:41:25 <balloons> thanks for attending!

 14:41:31 <balloons> #endmeeting
