{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The QA Team is committed to improving the quality of Ubuntu by putting in place a solid set of automated test cases that can be run on regular basis and report failures consistently and reliably. 

This wiki will grow with documentation and tips on automated testing best practices and tools. 

If you have any suggestions regarding how to improve Ubuntu's automated testing or have ideas on how to automate any existing testing, please, add your ideas to this <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/CommunityFeedback|wiki]]</nowiki>. 

== Work in Progress ==
All documentation related to ongoing work. 

=== How to create automated tests ===

* <nowiki>[[http://utah.readthedocs.org/en/latest| Ubuntu Test Automation Harness]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UbuntuTouch|Running stuff automatically on your phablet image]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/HowToWriteGoodTests| How to write good test cases]]</nowiki>
* '''<nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/auto-pkg-test.html|Use autopkgtest to immediately add test-cases to source packages]]</nowiki>.'''
* <nowiki>[[QATeam-AutomatedTesting-UIToolkit|Starting a UI toolkit test suite]]</nowiki>.

=== Current testing initiatives ===
We are currently performing the following testing activities. 
* '''<nowiki>[[QATeam-RequiredTests|Currently required test-cases]]</nowiki>.''' We are looking for tests in different categories and provide examples to get you started and we have <nowiki>[[http://packaging.ubuntu.com/html/auto-pkg-test.html|documentation]]</nowiki> as well. Simply edit the list of required tests and add your name next to it. Log in to <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-quality|#ubuntu-quality]]</nowiki> to ask questions and get help.
* <nowiki>[[QATeam-AutomatedTesting-UpToDateKernel|Recommended Kernel Testing (LTS)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QATeam-AutomatedTesting-BatteryConsumption|Battery consumption on battery powered devices]]</nowiki>

=== Test Guidelines ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestSubmissionGuidelines|Test Submission Guidelines]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/BrokenBuild|What is a broken build?]]</nowiki>

=== Automated Testing Dashboard ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestingDashboardHowTo|Testing Dashboard Howto]]</nowiki>

=== Understanding and troubleshooting Jenkins results ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/UnderstandingJenkinsResults|Understanding and troubleshooting Jenkins results]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/DebuggingJenkinsISOInstallations|Debugging Jenkins ISO Installations]]</nowiki>: This page will help understand and troubleshoot jenkins problems
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/DebuggingJenkinsPostInstallProblems|Debugging post installation test failures with Jenkins]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/DebuggingJenkinsUpgradeTesting|Debugging problems with upgrade testing]]</nowiki>

=== Raising bugs ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestingTypeAndBugTracking|How to tag bugs]]</nowiki> found during automation testing activities. 
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/DailyBuildsFailureContacts| Daily Builds failure contacts]]</nowiki>

=== Strategy ===
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/Strategy|Test Strategy (draft)]]</nowiki>: please, add content.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestCasesStructuring|New layout for test cases]]</nowiki> in Case Conductor
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Glossary|QA related glossary]]</nowiki>

=== Test Analysis ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Test+analysis+and+specification+for+Ubiquity.pdf|Automated testing for Ubiquity]]</nowiki>: being <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=review+comments.ods|reviewed]]</nowiki>. 

== Resources ==
Some resources and tools to be able to develop better automated testing. 

=== Tools ===
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestingTools|Test Tools]]</nowiki>

=== Documentation Templates ===
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestAnalysis|Test Analysis Template]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestCase|Test Cases Template]]</nowiki>

=== Technical Documentation useful for testers ===
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/PartitioningAndDeviceMapper|Partitioning and Device Mapper]]</nowiki>
