{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

* SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
   SRU Activity for the past week (since 2009-09-16) has been very light, my guess is the alpha 6 excitement distracted everybody
*** Jaunty: 1 new package in -proposed (postgresql-8.3) and 2 packages pushed to -updates (clamav, postgresql-8.3)
*** Intrepid: 1 new package in -proposed (postgresql-8.3) and 1 package pushed to -updates (postgresql-8.3)
*** Hardy: 3 new packages in -proposed (linux, linux-ubuntu-modules, postgresql-8.3), and 1 package pushed to -updates (postgresql-8.3)
*** Dapper: 1 new package in -proposed (postgresql-8.1) and 1 package pushed to -updates (postgresql-8.1)
   Thanks to Leonel Nunez, tz, and iGEL for testing packages in -proposed this week.
* Bugday highlights -- bdmurray (Brian Murray)
   [ACTION] bdmurray to ping the person setting up the pulseaudio bugday
* ISO Testing Tracker improvements -- ara (Ara Pulido)
   [ACTION] ara to file a bug on ISO tracker lp data
   [LINK]   https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bugs
* QA Meetings logs -- ara (Ara Pulido)
   [ACTION] ara to send an email to ubuntu-qa with the different possibilities for maintaining the meeting logs
* Five a day statistics updated
   [LINK] http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/five-a-day/

=== Logs ===

<pre>
[18:02] <ara> #startmeeting
[18:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:02. The chair is ara.
[18:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[18:02] <davmor2> apologies in advance if I just disappear lug meeting is further a field tonight
[18:02] <cr3> ara: you da man!
[18:02] <ara> agenda as usual at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings
[18:02] <ara> [TOPIC] SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[18:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[18:03] <sbeattie> SRU Activity for the past week (since 2009-09-16) has been very light, my guess is the alpha 6 excitement distracted everybody
[18:03] <sbeattie> * Jaunty: 1 new package in -proposed (postgresql-8.3) and 2 packages pushed to -updates (clamav, postgresql-8.3)
[18:03] <sbeattie> * Intrepid: 1 new package in -proposed (postgresql-8.3) and 1 package pushed to -updates (postgresql-8.3)
[18:03] <sbeattie> * Hardy: 3 new packages in -proposed (linux, linux-ubuntu-modules, postgresql-8.3), and 1 package pushed to -updates (postgresql-8.3)
[18:03] <sbeattie> * Dapper: 1 new package in -proposed (postgresql-8.1) and 1 package pushed to -updates (postgresql-8.1)
[18:03] <sbeattie> Thanks to Leonel Nunez, tz, and iGEL for testing packages in -proposed this week.
[18:03] <sbeattie> That's all on the SRU front, unless there are any questions.
[18:03] <ara> sbeattie, is it dapper still maintained?
[18:04] <sbeattie> ara: yes, dapper's server packages are still maintained.
[18:04] <ara> sbeattie, ah, ok, but not the desktop, isn't it?
[18:04] <sbeattie> Correct
[18:04] <ara> OK. thanks sbeattie :)
[18:05] <ara> [TOPIC] Bugday highlights -- bdmurray (Brian Murray)
[18:05] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugday highlights -- bdmurray (Brian Murray)
[18:06] <ara> bdmurray, any comments about the last bug day?
[18:06] <bdmurray> Yes, we made some progress on the bugs without a package.
[18:07] <bdmurray> Particularly, thanks to jpeddicord and kamus!
[18:08] <ara> What's the topic for tomorrow's bugday?
[18:09] <bdmurray> ara: it is supposed to be pulseaudio and a community member is setting it up
[18:10] <ara> bdmurray, mmm, the page is not there yet
[18:10] <bdmurray> ara: yes, I see that :-(
[18:11] <ara> bdmurray, could you approach the community member and check if he or she finally is running it?
[18:12] <bdmurray> ara: yes, I'll ping them
[18:12] <ara> [ACTION] bdmurray to ping the person setting up the pulseaudio bugday
[18:12] <MootBot> ACTION received:  bdmurray to ping the person setting up the pulseaudio bugday
[18:13] <ara> OK, next one
[18:13] <ara> [TOPIC] ISO Testing Tracker improvements -- ara (Ara Pulido)
[18:13] <MootBot> New Topic:  ISO Testing Tracker improvements -- ara (Ara Pulido)
[18:13] <davmor2> yes
[18:13] <ara> I know this is an old, old issue, but there are some improvements that should be easy to fix
[18:13] <ara> The list that I have (some require some more work)
[18:14] <davmor2> lp and report
[18:14] <ara> Reports working again and better
[18:14] <ara> â€¢ Launchpad data fixed
[18:14] <ara> â€¢ Assign something to yourself
[18:14] <ara> â€¢ Launchpad Open ID
[18:14] <ara> do you think of anything else?
[18:14] <davmor2> assigning works ara
[18:14] <ara> davmor2, it is on the list :)
[18:15] <ara> davmor2, or you mean assigning something to someone else
[18:15] <ara> ?
[18:15] <davmor2> ara: I'm saying it works can't understand why it's on the list
[18:16] <bdmurray> I think she means assign an iso / test to yourself
[18:16] <ara> bdmurray, that's what I meant
[18:16] <bdmurray> to show that it is in progress
[18:16] <fader_> e.g. "I plan to work on this test case next"
[18:16] <sbeattie> a working admin interface, where adding testcases doesn't require writing sql.
[18:17] <davmor2> the report working again would be the most useful thing which I think needs the lp data fix in place too
[18:17] <davmor2> ara: right with you now
[18:17] <bdmurray> Is there a bug open about the lp data?
[18:17] <ara> no idea
[18:18] <ara> which lp project contains the data of the iso tracker?
[18:18] <bdmurray> ubuntu-qa-website
[18:18] <bdmurray> https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bugs
[18:18] <davmor2> bdmurray: pass.  but it might be that the tracker needs an update to use the data rather then the other way round
[18:19] <bdmurray> Okay, I'll look into making bugs display information again in the tracker.
[18:20] <ara> bdmurray, thanks!
[18:20] <davmor2> bdmurray: thanks
[18:20] <ara> I will try to triage the list of bugs a bit
[18:20] <davmor2> right need to go sorry
[18:20] <bdmurray> We should open a bug on it though
[18:20] <ara> bdmurray, indeed, I'll do it
[18:21] <bdmurray> ara: great, thanks
[18:21] <ara> [ACTION] ara to file a bug on ISO tracker lp data
[18:21] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ara to file a bug on ISO tracker lp data
[18:22] <ara> [LINK] https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bugs
[18:22] <MootBot> LINK received:  https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-qa-website/+bugs
[18:22] <ara> OK, last topic in the agenda:
[18:22] <ara> [TOPIC] QA Meetings logs -- ara (Ara Pulido)
[18:22] <MootBot> New Topic:  QA Meetings logs -- ara (Ara Pulido)
[18:23] <ara> The meetings page at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings hasn't been updated in a while
[18:23] <ara> what do you guys think is better to maintain there, only the Mootbot summary? the logs? a human written summary?
[18:24] <ara> I am worried that people that cannot attend the meeting, never have access to the discussed data
[18:24] <bdmurray> I think a human written summary would likely be the most useful
[18:25] <bdmurray> It doesn't need to be long just elaborate on the mootbot summary
[18:25] <sbeattie> I agree, but it's also he most effort, and as a likely low priority task for whoever decides to take it on, will likely get dropped (as has happened currently)
[18:26] <fader_> Might there be any community members who would be interested in helping out with this?
[18:26] <ara> mmm, what about copying the mootbot summary, and send a reminder to the owners of the topic to extend a bit theirs?
[18:28] <ara> I will send an email to the ubuntu-qa list to check with the rest of the community
[18:28] <bdmurray> sounds good
[18:29] <ara> [ACTION] ara to send an email to ubuntu-qa with the different possibilities for maintaining the meeting logs
[18:29] <MootBot> ACTION received:  ara to send an email to ubuntu-qa with the different possibilities for maintaining the meeting logs
[18:29] <ara> any other topics?
[18:30] <bdmurray> yes, I've been working with five-a-day stats some recently
[18:30] <bdmurray> http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/five-a-day/
[18:30] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/five-a-day/
[18:31] <bdmurray> I've made some changes to the weekly stats and added the daily stats
[18:31] <bdmurray> blog post to follow sometime soon ;-)
[18:32] <ara> Nice!
[18:34] <ara> anything else?
[18:34] <bdmurray> nope
[18:35] <ara> OK, let's wrap up
[18:35] <ara> #endmeeting
[18:35] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 12:35.
</pre>
