{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Overlay Scrollbar Testing report - Apr 4, 2011 ==

=== Summary ===
==== Test Coverage ====
Testing campaign started on Mar. 24, 2011. Results are tracked on the <nowiki>[[http://desktop.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/test/5162|Desktop Tracker]]</nowiki>.

14 contributors have reported 50 results
<<BR>>

* Image Coverage       : 100.00% (5/5)
        
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Test Case'''
| '''Failures/Reports'''
|-
| 1. Scrollbar displayed
| 3/14
|-
| 2. Keyboard Scrolling
| 0/9
|-
| 3. Scrollbar Thumbs displayed
| 0/9
|-
| 4. Scrollbar Thumbs scroll
| 2/9
|-
| 5. Scrollbar Thumbs disappears
| 1/9
|}

=== Bugs Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| LP: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/743229|#743229]]</nowiki>
| Fix Released
| Medium
| overlay scrollbar thumbs not hidden if different window has focus
|-
| LP: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/743571|#743571]]</nowiki>
| Triaged
| Low
| Some apps can't use overlay scrollbars
|-
| LP: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/743220|#743220]]</nowiki>
| New
| Undecided
| overlay scrollbars in unfocused background window fail to scroll
|}

=== Reporter's Comments ===

* Banshee,Gedit

* Chromium is reported on the Wiki as working but it is still using the legacy bars.

* does not work with gnome-terminal, eog (eye of gnome)

* Empathy and chat windows display fine, scroll in chat windows with mouse wheel is slow.

* Empathy and chat windows work fine.

* Fine for empathy, evolution, gedit, banshee.

* If an application does not have focus the overlay scrollbar will appear. Clicking on it restores focus to the window but will not let you scroll which is very jarring. Clicking on unfocused thumbs should focus the attached window and allow you to scroll immediately.

* gedit does not show the overlay scrollabr. it&#039;s still showing the classic one.<<BR>>I started the application with the following command &quot;LIBOVERLAY-SCROLLBAR=foo gedit&quot;. the installed version is liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0

* Passed: empathy nautilus gedit banshee ccsm baobab tomboy 

* Failed: Any overlay-scrollbar-enabled app that does not currently have the focus (Bug: 743220)

* Passed: empathy nautilus gedit banshee ccsm baobab tomboy 

* Failed: if the mouse leaves the application displaying the thumbs before the thumbs are hidden, then the thumbs never disappear. (Bug: 743229 )

* Passed: empathy nautilus gedit banshee ccsm baobab tomboy gnome-control-center

* Failed: update-manager gparted gnome-terminal software-center gwibber<<BR>>gwibber shows overlay scrollbars in the upper-left and lower content panes, but classic scrollbars in it&#039;s upper-right content pane (Bug 743215)

* Passed: gedit, emesene, shotwell, software center, <<BR>>Failed: libreoffice, firefox, chromium, gwibber<<BR>>Scrollbars haven&#039;t turned up in rhythmbox, firefox or gedit at all, using LIBOVERLAY_SCROLLBARS=foo firefox

* works fine in nautilus, evince, gedit, banshee, epiphany, midori, gnome system monitor, synaptic, shotwell, disk utility<<BR>>overlay scrollbars do not work on firefox and thunderbird

* Works fine in Nautilus, Evince, Gedit, Banshee, Synaptic, Totem, Rhythmbox and Cheese.<<BR>>If we bring back the applications window associated with Unity, it would be nice to have this as the scroll function for that.

* Works fine with banshee, evolution, empathy.

* Works fine with empathy, gedit, evolution, obviously didn&#039;t work for gnome-terminal, firefox, inkscape (not gtk?) etc.<<BR>Didn&#039;t work for nautilus but presumably because that would need restarting.
** Xchat: the chat window scrollbar is the classic one, only the part with the users connected has the overlay scrollbars
** Gwibber: the left pane with the icons has the overlay scrollbars but the right pane with the messages has the classic ones
** gnome-terminal: they don&#039;t work

* works fine in nautilus, evince, gedit, banshee, epiphany, midori, gnome system monitor, synaptic, shotwell. disk utility<<BR>>overlay scrollbars do not work on firefox and thunderbird
