{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===
- Kernel Regression Tests
 regular kernel: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-karmic-2.6.31-23.74
 and EC2 kernel: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-karmic-2.6.31-308.28
 maverick kernel https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-maverick-2.6.35-28.49
 maverick backports: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-maverick-2.6.35-28.49-lbm

- SRU Report
 Over the past week 374 packages have been published to stable releases
 The complete list is available at http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html

-nVidia Testing
 To ensure users have a smooth experience with proprietary drivers in Natty, we are currently testing nVidia  graphics cards.
 We are looking for volunteers to test nVIDIA proprietary drivers on a weekly basis.
 All you need is:
  1. A computer with an nVIDIA (GeForce 7 or newer or corresponding mobile card) graphics card
  2. A spare partition on that system to install a fresh Natty
  3. One hour of your time per week
  4. An Internet connection
 Then, to take part of this adventure, go to:
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Testing/ProprietaryDrivers/Natty/WeeklyProgram
 and follow the instructions.
 Join us in #ubuntu-testing on freenode where we are coordinating this effort.

- Burndown
 Natty Beta-1 Work Items
 http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
 https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-qa-n-testing-different-architectures
 jibel blocked on confirmation from skaet and persia to clean up subscribers list
 https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa
 hggdh still blocked due to lack of working UEC tools since after Alpha 2.
 https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-qa-n-bugsquad-roadmap
 [brian-murray] investigate in Launchpad restricting the transition of a bug's status from Triaged so only the bug supervisor can do it: DONE
 Remaining Natty Work Items
 http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html

=== Log ===
<pre>
<patrickmw> #startmeeting
<Mootbot-UK> Meeting started at 17:02. The chair is patrickmw.
<Mootbot-UK> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [PROGRESS REPORT], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<patrickmw> Agenda:
 review previous action items (all)
 SRU Report -- jibel
 Call for testing NVIDIA -- jibel
 Kernel Regression Tests -- pedro_
 Burndown updates -- marjo
 Any Other Business
 Selection of new chair -- patrickmw
 I don't see any action items
<jibel> patrickmw, can we start with pedro_ , I'm here in a minute.
<patrickmw> ok
 [TOPIC] Kernel Regression Tests -- pedro_
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Kernel Regression Tests -- pedro_
<pedro_> Hello!
<guillemhs> hi!
<pedro_> so as you might know per our last status report, we were working on Maverick + Karmic kernels last week
 you only heard about the Maverick status though, but Karmic was also verified
 regular kernel: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-karmic-2.6.31-23.74
 and EC2 kernel: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-karmic-2.6.31-308.28
 if you're interesting on the results those are available on the previous urls
<-- brendand has quit (Ping timeout: 276 seconds)
<pedro_> we still have a few others kernels to test and this week we're working on the Maverick kernel
 last week was Lucid not Maverick (getting confused with the bunch of releases)
 we're almost done, just missing a few tests on KVM amd64 which are going to be completed today
 if you wanna follow the progress , please have a look to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-maverick-2.6.35-28.49
 you'll find all the results for our regression testing
<-- davmor2 has quit (Quit: I'm outta here)
<pedro_> we are also testing Maverick Linux Backports Modules , the progress is good so far and we hope to have those completed by tomorrow
 the results will be posted at : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelSRU-maverick-2.6.35-28.49-lbm
 As soon as we finish with the Maverick one, we will be working on the Dapper kernel
<-- jcollado has quit (Quit: Leaving.)
<pedro_> thanks to the amazing roadmr from the hw cert team now we have a machine with Dapper working :-)
<patrickmw> thanks, pedro_
<pedro_> thanks a lot to hggdh and patrickmw for their testing :-)
<patrickmw> you're welcome
<pedro_> patrickmw, that's all from here unless there's a comment or question
<patrickmw> jibel, are you ready?
<jibel> Yes I am
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] SRU Report -- jibel
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  SRU Report -- jibel
<jibel> Hello world!
 Over the past week 374 packages have been published to stable releases
 The complete list is available at
 [LINK] http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
<Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
<jibel> * A total of 346 packages have been published to maverick
** 2 packages published to maverick-updates: pm-utils, tzdata
** 8 packages published to maverick-security: chromium-browser, chromium-browser, krb5, libvpx, libvpx, pywebdav, tiff, wireshark
** 336 packages published to maverick-proposed: chromium-browser, chromium-browser, 332 language-packs, libvpx, tzdata
 Actually the 332 are only 1 package
* A total of 15 packages have been published to lucid
** 1 package published to lucid-updates: tzdata
** 9 packages published to lucid-security: binutils, chromium-browser, chromium-browser, gcj-4.4, krb5, kvirc, libvpx, openjdk-6b18, tiff
** 5 packages published to lucid-proposed: chromium-browser, chromium-browser, libvpx, linux-fsl-imx51, tzdata
* A total of 6 packages have been published to karmic
** 1 package published to karmic-updates: tzdata
** 4 packages published to karmic-security: dtc, krb5, openjdk-6b18, tiff
** 1 package published to karmic-proposed: tzdata
* A total of 4 packages have been published to hardy
** 1 package published to hardy-updates: tzdata
** 2 packages published to hardy-security: mplayer, tiff
** 1 package published to hardy-proposed: tzdata
* A total of 3 packages have been published to dapper
** 1 package published to dapper-updates: langpack-locales
** 1 package published to dapper-security: tiff
** 1 package published to dapper-proposed: langpack-locales
 Thanks to all the testers !
 As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!
 ..
<patrickmw> sru testing questions?
 [TOPIC] Call for testing NVIDIA -- jibel
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Call for testing NVIDIA -- jibel
<jibel> To ensure users have a smooth experience with proprietary drivers in Natty, we are currently testing nVidia graphics cards.
 We are looking for volunteers to test nVIDIA proprietary drivers on a weekly basis.
 All you need is:
  1. A computer with an nVIDIA (GeForce 7 or newer or corresponding mobile card) graphics card
  2. A spare partition on that system to install a fresh Natty
  3. One hour of your time per week
  4. An Internet connection
 Then, to take part of this adventure, go to:
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Testing/ProprietaryDrivers/Natty/WeeklyProgram
 and follow the instructions.
 Join us in #ubuntu-testing on freenode where we are coordinating this effort.
 ..
 Any question ?
<patrickmw> thanks, jibel!
 [TOPIC] Burndown updates -- marjo
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Burndown updates -- marjo
<marjo> hi folks
 Natty Beta-1 Work Items
 http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
<Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-1.html
<marjo> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/other-qa-n-testing-different-architectures
 jibel blocked on confirmation from skaet and persia to clean up subscribers list
 https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa
 hggdh still blocked due to lack of working UEC tools since after Alpha 2.
 https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-qa-n-bugsquad-roadmap
 [brian-murray] investigate in Launchpad restricting the transition of a bug's status from Triaged so only the bug supervisor can do it: DONE
 Remaining Natty Work Items
 http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html
<Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html
<marjo> Pedro to follow up
 [cprofitt] Contact documentation team for help: TODO
 [duanedesign] Contact the Beginners Team about working on helping editing and revising the BugSquad wiki pages: INPROGRESS
 bdmurray to follow up
 [kamus] Dashboard prototype creation: INPROGRESS
<marjo> patrickmw: that's it from me
<marjo> ..
<patrickmw> thanks,
 [TOPIC] AOB
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  AOB
<patrickmw> ok
 [TOPIC] Selection of new chair -- patrickmw
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Selection of new chair -- patrickmw
<patrickmw> volunteer?
 Who hasn't done this in a while? bdmurray, pedro?
<charlie-tca> hggdh:
<pedro_> i can chair the next one
<patrickmw> thanks pedro_
 have a good week!
# endmeeting
</pre>
