{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==

* SRU Testing
** Last week 111 packages published to stable releases.
** A total of 54 packages have been published to maverick
*** 27 packages published to maverick-updates: casper, computer-janitor, deja-dup, ec2-ami-tools, eglibc, empathy, euca2ools, evolution, gourmet, indicator-appmenu, linux-linaro, linux-meta-linaro, linux-meta-ti-omap4, lubuntu-default-settings, lxdm, media-player-info, monkeystudio, nautilus, nfs-utils, openssh, portmap, postgrey, python-django-piston, python-pysnmp4, ubuntu-docs, update-manager, upstart
*** 8 packages published to maverick-security: linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.35, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, openjdk-6, openjdk-6, openjdk-6b18, subversion
*** 19 packages published to maverick-proposed: aptdaemon, awstats, banshee, dell-recovery, fuse, linux, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, linux-ports-meta, moon, pgdesigner, tar, thunderbird-locales, ubuntu-docs, ubuntu-font-family-sources, util-linux, varnish, xdg-utils, xserver-xorg-video-intel
** A total of 45 packages have been published to lucid
*** 30 packages published to lucid-updates: apparmor, base-files, casper, consolekit, debian-installer, debootstrap, ec2-ami-tools, eglibc, euca2ools, grub2, gwibber, linux-lts-backport-maverick, linux-meta, linux-meta-lts-backport-maverick, mysql-dfsg-5.1, nfs-utils, opensync, partman-base, pidgin, plymouth, portmap, python3.1, samba, srtp, system-tools-backends, testdrive, unattended-upgrades, upstart, util-linux, xubuntu-docs
*** 11 packages published to lucid-security: linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.32, linux-ec2, linux-meta, linux-meta-ec2, linux-ports-meta, openjdk-6, openjdk-6, openjdk-6b18, openjdk-6b18, subversion
*** 4 packages published to lucid-proposed: linux-backports-modules-2.6.32, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, moon
** A total of 7 packages have been published to karmic
*** 5 packages published to karmic-security: openjdk-6, openjdk-6, openjdk-6b18, openjdk-6b18, subversion
*** 2 packages published to karmic-proposed: moon, ubuntu-font-family-sources
** A total of 3 packages have been published to hardy
*** 1 package published to hardy-updates: apparmor
*** 1 package published to hardy-security: subversion
*** 1 package published to hardy-proposed: ubuntu-font-family-sources
** A total of 2 packages have been published to dapper-security: linux-source-2.6.15, subversion
** the -proposed queue for lucid has been verified and published to update to prepare the release of 10.04.2

* Bug Day
** Triaged ~~79 of 171 Totem bugs
** Next Bug Day - Rhythmbox 

* Burndown updates
** http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-2.html
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-server-n-qa

* Any other business?
** Thank you to all the Natty Alpha2 pre-release ISO testers.  

* New chair
** patrickmw will chair the 2011-02-09 meeting

== Log ==
== Meeting opened by charlie-tca at 18:02 ==
 <''''''> The agenda is available at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

 <''''''> unfortunately, I can not access it today

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Old business

=== Old business ===
 <''''''> Is there any old business?

 <''''''> cd ..

 <''''''> opps sorry

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU Report

=== SRU Report ===
 <''''''> jibel?

 <''''''> Hello all

 <''''''> Last week 111 packages published to stable releases.

 <''''''> * A total of 54 packages have been published to maverick

 <''''''>   * 27 packages published to maverick-updates: casper, computer-janitor, deja-dup, ec2-ami-tools, eglibc, empathy, euca2ools, evolution, gourmet, indicator-appmenu, linux-linaro, linux-meta-linaro, linux-meta-ti-omap4, lubuntu-default-settings, lxdm, media-player-info, monkeystudio, nautilus, nfs-utils, openssh, portmap, postgrey, python-django-piston, python-pysnmp4, ubuntu-docs, update-manager, upstart

 <''''''>   * 8 packages published to maverick-security: linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.35, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, openjdk-6, openjdk-6, openjdk-6b18, subversion

 <''''''>   * 19 packages published to maverick-proposed: aptdaemon, awstats, banshee, dell-recovery, fuse, linux, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, linux-ports-meta, moon, pgdesigner, tar, thunderbird-locales, ubuntu-docs, ubuntu-font-family-sources, util-linux, varnish, xdg-utils, xserver-xorg-video-intel

 <''''''> * A total of 45 packages have been published to lucid

 <''''''>   * 30 packages published to lucid-updates: apparmor, base-files, casper, consolekit, debian-installer, debootstrap, ec2-ami-tools, eglibc, euca2ools, grub2, gwibber, linux-lts-backport-maverick, linux-meta, linux-meta-lts-backport-maverick, mysql-dfsg-5.1, nfs-utils, opensync, partman-base, pidgin, plymouth, portmap, python3.1, samba, srtp, system-tools-backends, testdrive, unattended-upgrades, upstart, util-linux, xubu

 <''''''> ntu-docs

 <''''''>   * 11 packages published to lucid-security: linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.32, linux-ec2, linux-meta, linux-meta-ec2, linux-ports-meta, openjdk-6, openjdk-6, openjdk-6b18, openjdk-6b18, subversion

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to lucid-proposed: linux-backports-modules-2.6.32, linux-meta, linux-ports-meta, moon

 <''''''> * A total of 7 packages have been published to karmic

 <''''''>   * 5 packages published to karmic-security: openjdk-6, openjdk-6, openjdk-6b18, openjdk-6b18, subversion

 <''''''>   * 2 packages published to karmic-proposed: moon, ubuntu-font-family-sources

 <''''''> * A total of 3 packages have been published to hardy

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to hardy-updates: apparmor

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to hardy-security: subversion

 <''''''>   * 1 package published to hardy-proposed: ubuntu-font-family-sources

 <''''''> * A total of 2 packages have been published to dapper-security: linux-source-2.6.15, subversion

 <''''''> the -proposed queue for lucid has been verified and published to update to prepare the release of 10.04.2

 <''''''> Thanks to all the testers.

 <''''''> any question ?

 <''''''> Thank you very much, jibel

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Bugday report

=== Bugday report ===
 <''''''> pedro_: your turn

 <''''''> Hello, so last week we organized a bug day for Totem

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20110127

 <''''''> ~79 of 171 bugs were triaged during that day, you can see the nice graphs at the bottom of that page

 <''''''> thanks a lot to our contributors: evfool, charlie-tca, kamusin and om26er

 <''''''> and so following with this multimedia targets

 <''''''> Tomorrow we're having a bug day for Rhythmbox

 <''''''> so if you use Rhythmbox and wanna learn more about it or just learn more about bug triaging, please join us tomorrow the *whole* day your timezone at #ubuntu-bugs

 <''''''> bug day is at: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20110203

 <''''''> that's all from here charlie-tca, unless there's a question,comment, etc

 <''''''> Thank you, pedro_ . That is a good bugday, both the successful Totem day and the upcoming Rhythmbox day

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Burndowns

=== Burndowns ===
 <''''''> Is marjo here?

 <''''''> marjo here

 <''''''> Go ahead, sir

 <''''''> thanks charlie-tca

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-2.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-natty-alpha-2.html

 <''''''> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cloud-server-n-uec-qa

 <''''''> hggdh: still in progress, but on track for this thursday

 <''''''> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/ubuntutheproject-server-n-qa

 <''''''> hggdh: still in progress, but on track for this thursday

 <''''''> all other blueprint work items are 100% done

 <''''''> that's it from me

 <''''''> thx charlie-tca

 <''''''> thank you, marjo

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Any other business?

=== Any other business? ===
 <''''''> hm, we are testing the alpha2 images today, and a big thank you to all the testers

 <''''''> We can use more help, if you can do it.

 <''''''> indeed thanks to all the testers.

 <''''''> Anything else?

 <''''''> New DVDs have been published,so you can test it.

 <''''''> did I miss anything on the agenda, for those who can see it?

 <''''''> We also need testers for wubi.

 <''''''> ..

 <''''''> and testers for RAID installs (my machines are dead)

 <''''''> Thanks, jibel

 <''''''> anybody got a couple of extra machines can help with the RAID tests?

* '''''' doesn't have enough left. 

 <''''''> charlie-tca: need new chair!

 <''''''> for next meeting

 <''''''> oh, that's right

 <''''''> [TOPIC] new chair

=== new chair ===
 <''''''> thanks, marjo

 <''''''> any volunteers to chair the next meeting?

* '''''' accepts

 <''''''> Thank you, patrickmw

 <''''''> You offer is accepted

 <''''''> Let's go back to testing, now.

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 18:19 ==
=== People Present ===
* charlie-tca

* jibel

* pedro_

* marjo

* hggdh

* patrickmw

=== Actions Recorded ===
