{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the proposed template for Test Analysis documentation. 

== Introduction and Objectives ==

What is this document going to be about? What is the context for this work?

Which type of testing will we be focusing on (positive, negative, functional, performance, stress testing, benchmarking, white box testing, black box testing, fuzzing, etc) and why? Explain why you think this is the best course of action. 

== Scope ==
What functionality is being tested? For which release are these test cases being created? Are they meant to be applicable going forward? What subsystems are under test?

== Maintainability ==
Is this test suite going to be maintained beyond the scoped release, if so, what changes are expected to be necessary every time  some changes are made to the product and a test case breaks?

== Dependencies ==
Are there any hardware dependencies?
Are there any library or installed software dependencies? 

== Exclusions ==
What functionality is not being tested and why (i.e small added value, already covered in a more generic one, duplicated in this other test suite, etc) ? Make a list. 
Are there any specific test cases being excluded from the final test suite? If so, enumerate and explain why (i.e small added value, already covered in a more generic one, duplicated in this other test suite, etc).

== Test Analysis ==

=== Description of System Under Test ===
What does the system under test do, roughly? 

=== Test techniques ===
What testing techniques are we going to use  (i.e. equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis, decision tables, cause effect graphing, state transition testing, classification tree method, pairwise testing, exploratory testing, adhoc testing, etc) and why, what test coverage are you aiming at?

	Add subsections to document the application of any of the techniques, so that they can be modified when required when the system under test changes in the future. 
==== Technique 1 ====

==== Technique 2 ====

=== Feature Pass/Fail Criteria ===
What is your Pass/Fail criteria in case your test cases are not functional (i.e. performance testing, stress testing, security)?

=== Tools ===
Will specific tools be required for testing? If yes, why were they chosen and how will they fit in the end to end testing cycle. 
