{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

There are a lot of new terms, tools and procedures we want to use for Testing on Ubuntu Personal.  This page is here to document those processes.
=== Silo Testing ===
==== Prechecks ====

* All merge proposals must have been reviewed and approved.
* All automated tests must pass.
* New features must come with automated tests.
* New strings must be marked for translation.

==== Installation ====

Install phablet-tools package in your desktop machine.

* Flash the phone with the latest development image (instructions <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Image_Testing_Channels|here]]</nowiki> )
* `citrain device-upgrade <silo number> <password>`
* /!\ This section may not be needed now if you use an up-to-date distro as citrain has built it in /!\ Overlay PPA
** In case of Vivid + Overlay PPA, the silo packages need to be pinned to a higher priority. Otherwise, silo packages won't be installed.
** Create this file: `sudo vi /etc/apt/preferences.d/silo.pref`
** Add these lines (silo number must be 0-padded, e.g. landing-001): <pre>
Package: *
Pin: release o=LP-PPA-ci-train-ppa-service-landing-<silo number>
Pin-Priority: 1002
</pre>

** Save the file.
** Update the package list: `sudo apt-get update`
** Upgrade the packages: `sudo apt-get upgrade`

==== Trello Board Edits ====
** The trello board is located <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/AE3swczu/qa-testing-requests-for-questions-ping-ubuntu-qa-on-ubuntu-ci-eng|here]]</nowiki>
** Grab a ticket from the "Ready for Testing" Lane
** Add yourself to the ticket (Hover over the ticket and tap space, or select Members and add yourself from there)
** From the testplan for the silo under test add the title for each section to a ticket comment and mark them as passed or failed.   Example: <pre>
NO ACCOUNT: PASS.
EXISTING ACCOUNT: PASS.
Security Information: PASS.
Security Information: Paypal payment: PASS.
Security Information: Add Credit/debit card: FAIL (cancel presents blank page instead Preview).
Cancel button flow: PASS.
Buy Now button flow: Logged in: PASS.
Add credit/debit card flow: Cancel adding card: FAIL (cancel presents blank page instead Preview).
Add credit/debit card flow: Add a card: FAIL ("Cancel" in credit card confirmation page -bank website- doesn't add the credit card).
The blank page is a regression, it works fine in the current pay-ui.
</pre>
** If there is a failure in a separate comment clearly make a note of the issue.

==== Test Plan Locations ====

** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Process/Merges/TestPlan/|List of test plans]]</nowiki>.

==== Reporting New Cases ====
* Any relevant silo bugs (both new and fixed) should be added to the Regression Test Suite as "To Review".
* Testplan levels Set the level relevant to the level to access the item, High anything on an initial page section, Medium on a secondary, low anything below that.  (Example browser app, opens, connects to web, opens a page, open a new tab, save a bookmark = high, open a bookmark, history, private mode = medium, rename a bookmark, clear history = low)

==== More Info ====
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LandingTeam/SiloTestingGuidelines|More info can be found here]]</nowiki>

=== Tarball Testing ===
==== Prechecks ====
Images are scheduled <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LiPHq39XvPaTQoE8vmi-dqSVMTGGLfCh7bFY01BcNNk/edit#gid=50|here]]</nowiki>
==== Installation ====
For Custom Tarballs Read: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Testing_Custom_Tarballs <<BR>>
For Device Tarballs Read: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Testing_Device_Tarballs
==== Test Plan Locations ====
See Sanity Testing Below for device tarballs <<BR>>
For Custom Tarballs look at practitest (cases need adding here)
==== Reporting New Cases ====
All new cases must be added to the "To Review" Queue in practitest
==== More Info ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash
=== Sanity Testing ===
==== Prechecks ====
All silos are landed and all tarballs are landed.
==== Installation ====
* Follow the instructions <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Image_Testing_Channels|here]]</nowiki> to get the latest image install
* Then run the sanity suite
==== Test Plan Locations ====
Sanity test are located in practitest currently
==== Reporting New Cases ====
Sanity is a deliberately selected small subset of tests targeting software interactions with hardware.  Any additional tests felt required should be discussed with the entire team via the mailing list or standups. 
==== More Info ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash
=== Regression Testing ===
==== Prechecks ====
Sanity Must of been run to ensure the image is at least testable
==== Installation ====
* Follow the instructions <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Image_Testing_Channels|here]]</nowiki> to get the latest image install
* Then run the regression suite
==== Test Plan Locations ====
Regression tests are located in Practitest Currently
==== Reporting New Cases ====
New Cases should not be found while testing regression, however you may want make a note here(add a link later) to remind you to look at something during exploratory testing.
==== More Info ====
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash
=== Exploratory Testing ===
/!\ Should be carried out by canonical staff only
==== Prechecks ====
The area you wish to test is actually functioning.
==== Installation ====
* Follow the instructions <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Image_Testing_Channels|here]]</nowiki> to get the latest image install
* Work on the area you have selected
==== Recording Test and Session ====
Use the web form <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/a/canonical.com/forms/d/1rqF4V8VMleQQliEaEqzrUke4aiblSbsczK5BWL33DTU/viewform?edit_requested=true#|here]]</nowiki> to keep track of what you test
==== Reporting New Cases ====
If there is automation required here it should be reported as a bug for the development team.<<BR>>
If there are new manual cases they should be put into draft for review in practitest.
=== Click Package Testing ===
==== Prechecks ====
# Goto <nowiki>[[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LiPHq39XvPaTQoE8vmi-dqSVMTGGLfCh7bFY01BcNNk/edit?pli=1#gid=50|here]]</nowiki> and check for a new click package
# Download the click and note it's location (Default is ~/Downloads)
==== Installing ====
# Fresh flash the device see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ChannelsToFlash#Flashing_the_Current_Release|Flashing Current Release]]</nowiki>
# Once flash setup the device
# Now goto system settings → about device → developer mode and enable developer mode
# While the screen is on do <pre>
adb push Download/click_package_name.click /home/phablet
</pre>
1. Follow this up with <pre>
adb shell
</pre>
1. In that shell do <pre>
pkcon install-local --allow-untrusted click_package_name.click
sudo reboot
</pre>
1. Click package is now ready to test
==== Testing ====
There are various test plans dotted around but on the whole the spread sheet will point you to the right one, there are also the case in Practitest.
=== Automated Testing ===
==== Prechecks ====
==== Installation ====
==== Test Plan Locations ====
==== Reporting Of Failures ====
==== More info ====
=== Miscellaneous ===
==== Faking Your Location for Scopes Testing ====
For the Nearby scope, some functionality is supported only enabled cities.  You can “fake location” to London which supports both Songkick and Timeout as follows.
1. Set image as writable:<pre>
      phablet-config  writable-image
</pre>
## phablet-shell into the device
## Create this file /custom/custom.prop with below contents:<pre>
      $ sudo vim.tiny /custom/custom.prop
      custom.location.fake=true
      custom.location.lon=-0.0999525
      custom.location.lat=51.5062348
</pre>
## Reboot
## Refresh scope AFTER first display
Or you can fake your location to one of these Timeout-supported cities: Accra, Amsterdam, Barcelona, Berlin, Boston, Chicago, Kuala Lumpur, Las Vegas, London, Los Angeles, Madrid, Miami, México DF, New York, Paris, Washington DC.

=== FAQ ===
1. How can the community help?
** The community are the main users of the currently supported devices so:
*** Knowing what is wrong (bug reports, see point 2)
*** Knowing what is right (ubuntu-phone@lists.launchpad.net send a mail here the devs would love to know what you love)
*** Knowing images are working (Bug reports when the don't, see point 2)
*** Knowing if something is missing (Bug reports, please don't be dismayed if they get marked as wishlist lot to do, alternatively talking to the development team/creator of you favourite app about a port to Ubuntu is good too :) )
1. What info do you need in bug reports?
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/BugReportInclusions lists the basics and the start for wifi and phone logs more to come.
** Most packages are listed in the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Avengers  Please look for a bug similar to yours before reporting a new one.
