{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
patrickmw> #startmeeting
<MootBot> Meeting started at 12:03. The chair is patrickmw.
<MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<patrickmw> Previous Actions (all)
<patrickmw> Community Efforts/Testing
<patrickmw> Automated/Systems Testing
<patrickmw> Engineering Team Bug Status
<patrickmw> Other Topics
<patrickmw> Chair Selection 
<patrickmw> any previous actions?
<patrickmw> it's quiet. am I early??
<afleck> im here, but i'm just observing
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing
<MootBot> New Topic:  Community Efforts/Testing
<patrickmw> pedro_?
<pedro_> that sort of jibel topic i think
<patrickmw> just curious if you had a bug day announcement :)
<patrickmw> sorry bout that
<pedro_> oh yes i have
<pedro_> we're going to have a bug day for compiz tomorrow
<pedro_> specially dedicated for polishing it a bit more for Oneiric
<pedro_> so if you're using Oneiric with Unity 3d, please join us tomorrow the whole day your timezone
<pedro_> as always we're going to hang out at #ubuntu-bugs
<pedro_> and as you can see here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20110728
<pedro_> people already started to work on it, but don't worry there's still a lot of bug reports waiting to be triaged so if you have time remember we'd love to have some extra help :-)
<pedro_> ..
<patrickmw> thanks for the update
<patrickmw> [Automated/Systems Testing]
<patrickmw> boo
* afleck has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing
<MootBot> New Topic:  Automated/Systems Testing
<patrickmw> lots today
<patrickmw> = Upgrade Testing = 
<patrickmw> * All upgrade profiles for Oneiric are now running in a compact job
<patrickmw> * Thanks to mvo for migrating his work and creating documentation!
* afleck (~chatzilla@pool-74-96-85-178.washdc.fios.verizon.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<patrickmw> = Kernel SRU =
<patrickmw> * Branches being locally tested now and will be proposed for merge today. Changes are for testing Lucid (and prep for all previous releases)
<patrickmw> = New Projects =
<patrickmw> * ipv6 and upstart testing.  working with foundations to gather requirements
<patrickmw> * more requests to add packages for CI \o/
<patrickmw> * start planning for ltsp test automation \o/ \o/
<patrickmw> = QA Lab =
<patrickmw> * wazn and albali hw are being upgraded today.  testing will be suspended until they are back online.
<patrickmw> * qa lab backup stategy in progress
<patrickmw> Announcing new testing mailing list: ubuntu-testing-notifications@lists.ubuntu.com
<patrickmw> The notifications are sent from Jenkins for failing or unstable jobs.  Only a few jobs are sending notifications at this time, but this will increase as we add more.
<patrickmw> Questions?
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status 
<MootBot> New Topic:  Engineering Team Bug Status
<patrickmw> pedro_?
<patrickmw> then could you please appoint the next presenter :)
<pedro_> sure, so i've pushed the code for the desktop report to https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-defect-analysts
<pedro_> so the other teams can use it if they think it works fine for them
* valorie (valorie@bnc.kollide.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<pedro_> not much to share besides that and the bug day
<pedro_> ..
<pedro_> Ursinha, bdmurray anything to share?
<bdmurray> pedro_: oh yes
<bdmurray> base-files upload regarding motd and conffiles (bug 813282), apt-xapian-index fix for bug 752195
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 813282 in base-files (Ubuntu) "base-files: /etc/update-motd.d/* should be conffiles" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/813282
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 752195 in apt-xapian-index (Ubuntu) "update-apt-xapian-index crashed with OSError in getmtime(): [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '/usr/share/app-install/desktop/metamorphose2.desktop'" [Medium,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/752195
<bdmurray> updated search-bugs to search all of ubuntu bug reports if the package is ubuntu, then searching and modified apport-package bug reports as         duplicates, bug pattern writing for foreign language package is already installed and configured bug reports
<bdmurray> wrote a launchpadlib script to check all fixed bugs about a package for similar bug reports, grab-attachments modification to accept --tag 'apport- package', udd database querying to find similar bugs about a package in ubuntu and debian
* bjf (~brad@static-50-53-107-235.bvtn.or.frontiernet.net) has joined #ubuntu-meeting
<bdmurray> apport uploads fixing ubiquity source package hook, collecting upstart override files (bug 803977), collecting modified conffiles, checking         VarLogDistupgradeApttermlog for bug patterns, fixing kernel-driver tagging of kernel oopses
<ubottu> Launchpad bug 803977 in apport (Ubuntu) "Add hook to attach Upstart override files" [Wishlist,Fix released] https://launchpad.net/bugs/803977
<bdmurray> and I sent email notifications about the overrides and conffiles changes to apport
<bdmurray> those should be quite interesting
<bdmurray> that's that
<patrickmw> Ursinha?
* afleck has quit (Quit: ChatZilla 0.9.87 [Firefox 5.0/20110622232052])
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Other Topics
<MootBot> New Topic:  Other Topics
<patrickmw> open floor
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Chair Auto-Selection - jibel :)
<MootBot> New Topic:  Chair Auto-Selection - jibel :)
<pedro_> lol
</pre>
