{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Launchpad Bugs / Ubuntu QA Meeting ==
* '''2009-02-23 18:00 UTC'''
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki> (yarrumnairb)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~leannogasawara|Leann Ogasawara]]</nowiki> (leannogasawara)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~schwuk|David Murphy]]</nowiki> (schwuk)
** Notes:
** It should be possible to get the filename of an attachment using the API
** Abel will change the schema of the HWDB documents to allow including the output of arbitrary commands
** David will modify the HWDB client to start sending data in the new format, and we'll request permission to get this out in the next Jaunty release.
* 2009-01-26 18:00 UTC
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~henrik|Henrik Omma]]</nowiki> (heno_heno)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)
* '''2009-01-12 18:00 UTC'''
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~henrik|Henrik Omma]]</nowiki> (heno_heno)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~pvillavi|PedroVillavicencio]]</nowiki> (pvillavi)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki> (yarrumnairb)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~leannogasawara|Leann Ogasawara]]</nowiki> (leannogasawara)
** Agenda:
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/UnassignKernelTeam|Kernel team bugs unassigned]]</nowiki>
** API
*** Novelties
*** Driving towards apport conversion
*** Anything else?
** Reminder: input required for LP-hosted QA tracker

* 2008-12-08 18:00 UTC
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~apulido|Ara Pulido]]</nowiki> (arapulido)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)

* 2008-11-10 18:00 UTC
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)
## HenrikOmma (heno_heno)
## LeannOgasawara (leannogasawara)
## PedroVillavicencio (pedro)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stgraber|St√©phane Graber]]</nowiki> (stgraber)
** Agenda:
** Intrepid is out, Jaunty is in
** EPIC report (intellectronica)
** UI Review (intellectronica)
** Progress report
*** API
*** Package-specific bug reporting guidelines
*** Other stuff...
** Notes:
** Release post-mortem
*** Bug nomination is too easy
*** Maybe restrict it by bug status/importance, or ACL
*** Once a nomination is declined it cannot be re-nominated, sometimes a problem
*** Being able to search the HWDB would be helpful in prioritizing bugs
** Jaunty will focus on bug-fixing, the QA team will track
** Bug migration (CUPS, Desktop)
** Time to get this done.
** Brian and Pedro will prepare documentation
** Tom will try to schedule for late November / early December
** Tom is on leave and the sprinting the last two weeks of November. Abel is covering for him.

* 2008-10-15 18:00 UTC (after the QA meeting in ubuntu-meeting)
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~henrik|Henrik Omma]]</nowiki> (heno_heno)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~pvillavi|PedroVillavicencio]]</nowiki> (pvillavi)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~davmor2|Dave Morley]]</nowiki> (davmor2)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~greg.grossmeier|Greg Grossmeier]]</nowiki> (greg.grossmeier)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki> (yarrumnairb)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~apulido|Ara Pulido]]</nowiki> (apulido)

** Agenda:
** The Launchpad team is sprinting October 20-30. Limited availability.
*** If there's anything urgent and we're not responsive on IRC please feel free to contact Tom Berger directly. (intellectronica)
** Marking bugs as affecting a user has landed. What do people think about the UI? What do people think on how to use the data? (intellectronica)
** What is blocking the bug janitor?
** Follow up on items from the last meeting
*** cups bugs conversion
*** desktop bugs conversion
*** bad attachments culling
*** we're all very busy (ubuntu release, lp sprints, etc) so on most of these we might just carry over to the next meeting
* 2008-09-29 16:00 UTC
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~henrik|Henrik Omma]]</nowiki> (heno_heno)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~leannogasawara|Leann Ogasawara]]</nowiki> (leannogasawara)
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|Brian Murray]]</nowiki> (yarrumnairb) 
*** If I get skype working again
   1. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~apulido|Ara Pulido]]</nowiki> (arapulido)
*** I will need to leave around 16:45 UTC. 
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~pvillavi|PedroVillavicencio]]</nowiki> (pvillavi)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki> (adeuring)
** Agenda:
*** cups vs cupsys package name change in Launchpad - future bug reports, etc
* 2008-09-15 16:00 UTC
** Participants (up to 10) (LP page, Name, Skype ID):
## <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~intellectronica|Tom Berger]]</nowiki> (tom.berger)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~henrik|Henrik Omma]]</nowiki> (heno_heno)
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~adeuring|Abel Deuring]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~pvillavi|PedroVillavicencio]]</nowiki> (pvillavi)
** Meeting canceled - nothing to discuss and many regular participants can't make it anyway.

* 2008-09-01 16:00 UTC
** Bug status migration followup (intellectronica, pedro)
** Pedro wrote <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/DesktopBugMigration|DesktopBugMigration]]</nowiki>
** We agreed that we should add a comment to every bug explaining the change (linking to a relevant wiki page) and asking the users not to change back to Confirmed
** We agreed that we're going to suppress all email notifications pertaining to that change
** Abel fills in for Tom September 3-10 (intellectronica)
** Skype experiment successful
** Yay
** Henrik will push for using Skype more in Canonical and the Ubuntu community
** Conf call limited to 10 paticipants, so we're going to maintain a sign up list on this wiki page before the next meeting
** Bjorn reported on the Launchpad team leads sprint and the feature priorities for v3.0
** Tom still needs to spec and estimate the restoration of historical bug status transitions
** Brian initiated a discussion of bug nominations
** The QA team will spec a change for later discussion

* 2008-08-18 16:00 UTC
** LP 3.0 wish list priorities
** This needs to be completed by the end of the week
** Tom and Brian will use the community input collected by Henrik to complete this, and Tom will update the Launchpad team.
** Community representation
** There is consensus in the community that they want someone to act as a representative, but nobody has been chosen yet.
** Tom will follow up with community in the next meeting on freenode.
** Desktop bug conversion
** Pedro and Brian suggested moving the status of desktop bugs from 'confirmed' to 'triaged'.
*** Pedro will write a wiki page with the requirements and the Launchpad team will schedule
** Restoration of historical bug transitions
** Brian wrote a script to recover old bug transitions that weren't recorded from the ubuntu bugs mailing list, but there is more work involved to be able to complete that
*** The Launchpad team will estimate the remaining work and try to schedule the work

* 2008-08-04 16:00 UTC
** Agenda
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/KernelBugMigration|Kernel Bug Migration]]</nowiki> (Tom)
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/LaunchpadBugsFeaturePriorities|Malone Estimation and Planning]]</nowiki> (Tom)
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-qa/2008-August/000201.html|QA LP Liaison]]</nowiki> (Henrik)
** Action Items
** Tom to report to Leann about the preparations for the kernel bug migration and execute it on Thursday, August 7th
** Tom to prepare a sanitized list of proposed Launchpad Bugs features for the Ubuntu QA community and MOTU and place on the Ubuntu wiki
** Henrik to start a discussion with the Ubuntu community and MOTU on the prioritization of Launchpad Bugs features. It will be follow-up with a QA conference call.
** Abel to start a discussion of the hardware database (current status, developments and proposed features) for the benefit of those not yet familiar with the project
** Some other discussion
** Tom agreed that communication between QA and LP teams need to be improve, but he doubts that a person (QA/LP Liason) is the best answer for it. He suggests improving wiki pages and use the mailing lists and IRC.
