{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==

=== SRU Updates ===
* http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
* A total of 36 packages have been published to maverick
* A total of 26 packages have been published to lucid
* A total of 10 packages have been published to karmic
* A total of 14 packages have been published to hardy
* A total of 3 packages have been published to dapper

=== Burndown ===
Natty Beta-2 Work Items:
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
* Tracker is not working at this time, results are not accurate
Remaining Natty Work Items:
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html

=== Beta 1 ISO Testing ===
the participation was good with 62 contributors who contributed to 449 results.
 testing coverage:
*** Image Coverage : 100.00% (76/76)
*** Mandatory Test Cases : 99.57% (233/234)
*** Run Once Test Cases : 93.18% (41/44)
*** Overall : 98.56% (274/278)
 84 bugs have been reported and 61 test cases have failed
 The detailed report is available at
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/NattyBeta1TestReport

=== Chair ===
patrickmw volunteered himself by forgetting to bring up the topic :/

=== Log ===
<pre>
<Mootbot-UK> Meeting started at 18:01. The chair is patrickmw.
<Mootbot-UK> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [PROGRESS REPORT], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
<patrickmw> Agenda:
*** review previous action items (all)
*** SRU Report -- jibel
*** Burndown updates -- pgraner
*** Any Other Business
*** Selection of new chair -- patrickmw 
 [TOPIC] review previous action items (all)
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  review previous action items (all)
<patrickmw> been a while since we've had action items :)
<charlie-tca> Going to be longer, too, right?
<patrickmw> let's talk about action items afterward.
 [TOPIC] SRU Report -- jibel
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  SRU Report -- jibel
<jibel> hi everyone!
 Over the past week 89 packages have been published to stable releases
 The complete list is available at
 [LINK] http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
<Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
<jibel> * A total of 36 packages have been published to maverick
** 8 packages published to maverick-updates: acct, banshee, debian-archive-keyring, gnome-python-extras, jinja2, pdfmod, samba, tzdata
** 7 packages published to maverick-security: ffmpeg, gdm, nss, openldap, qt4-x11, tex-common, tiff
** 21 packages published to maverick-proposed: compiz, davfs2, ecl, eglibc, gnome-power-manager, gnome-python-desktop, gnome-terminal, gst-plugins-bad0.10, indicator-application, inkscape, landscape-client, linux-firmware, linux-ti-omap4, qt-sdk, squid-deb-proxy, system-config-printer, sysvinit, tomboy, tzdata, update-manager, w3m
* A total of 26 packages have been published to lucid
** 6 packages published to lucid-updates: octave3.2, openafs, python-pip, tzdata, ubuntu-font-family-sources, virtinst
** 7 packages published to lucid-security: ffmpeg, gdm, nss, openldap, qt4-x11, tex-common, tiff
** 13 packages published to lucid-proposed: compiz, cups, davfs2, desktopcouch, gnome-python-desktop, grub2, gst-plugins-bad0.10, landscape-client, openbox, qemu-kvm, sysvinit, tzdata, w3m
* A total of 10 packages have been published to karmic
** 2 packages published to karmic-updates: twiki, tzdata
** 6 packages published to karmic-security: ffmpeg, gdm, nss, openldap, qt4-x11, tiff
** 2 packages published to karmic-proposed: landscape-client, tzdata
* A total of 14 packages have been published to hardy
** 2 packages published to hardy-updates: twiki, tzdata
** 10 packages published to hardy-security: ffmpeg, linux, linux-backports-modules-2.6.24, linux-meta, linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24, linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24, nss, openldap2.3, qt4-x11, tiff
** 2 packages published to hardy-proposed: linux-backports-modules-2.6.24, tzdata
* A total of 3 packages have been published to dapper
** langpack-locales published to dapper-updates
** tiff published to dapper-security
** langpack-locales published to dapper-proposed
 Thanks to all the testers !
 As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!
 .
 ..
<patrickmw> thank you, jibel
 [TOPIC] Burndown updates -- pgraner 
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Burndown updates -- pgraner
<pgraner> Howdy everyone.
 Natty Beta-2 Work Items:
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa-ubuntu-11.04-beta-2.html
 As you'll see from the link the burndown tracker is busted for the QA's beta 2 items. I'm currently looking into it. So no accurate info at them moment.
 Remaining Natty Work Items:
* http://people.canonical.com/~platform/workitems/natty/canonical-platform-qa.html
 Nothing significant to report at this time.
 ..
<patrickmw> good luck on the tracker :)
* pgraner groans 
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Any Other Business 
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Any Other Business
<jibel> o/
* patrickmw awaits jibel's response :)
<jibel> a few words about beta testing last week.
 the participation was good with 62 contributors who contributed to 449 results.
 testing coverage:
*** Image Coverage : 100.00% (76/76)
*** Mandatory Test Cases : 99.57% (233/234)
*** Run Once Test Cases : 93.18% (41/44)
*** Overall : 98.56% (274/278)
 84 bugs have been reported and 61 test cases have failed
 The detailed report is available at
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ReleaseReports/NattyBeta1TestReport
 Many thanks to hggdh, jibel, chadadavis, pedro_, charlie-tca, njin, jamespage, ptn107, smoser, highvoltage, PatrickDK, Knightlust, ScottK, xdatap1, PaoloRotolo, starslights, pitti, superm1, stanz, Letozaf_, jledbetter, Fly82, guillemhs, primes2h, zul, valix, Daviey, totopalma, homitsu, francescobrozzu, freefly, cariboo907, davmor2 and cyphermox for testing the ISOs.
 get ready to test Beta 2 next week.
 ..
<patrickmw> thanks. anyone else?
 alright, thanks for coming everyone
# endmeeting
</pre>
