{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Role Overview ==
The QA Team has four defined roles and work-flows to help you contribute to the many activities going on inside of Ubuntu QA. A person can hold more than one role, but it is recommended that everyone participates as a tester at some point in order to understand testing and ubuntu best.

=== Tester ===
The tester role is the backbone of the QA team, and the easiest one to get in touch with QA. Testers install and run the development releases, report and triage bugs, and provide test results.

Ready to help? <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/Tester|Learn more about how to be a tester]]</nowiki>.

=== Bug Triager ===
The bug triager sticks with stable versions of ubuntu and helps perform SRU Verifications and perform bug triaging. Interested? <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/BugTriager|Learn more about how to be a bug triager]]</nowiki>.

=== Test Writer ===
Test writers are responsible for creating and maintaining the test suites used in ubuntu. This includes autopilot and autopkg automated tests as well as manual testing efforts. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/TestWriter|Learn more about how to write tests for ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

=== Developer ===
Developers within in the team work on tools used by the ubuntu quality community and others performing QA work. These range from tools that help with manual testing such as the qatracker and testdrive to automated testing tools like autopilot. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/Developer|Learn more about developing QA tools]]</nowiki>.
