{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:karmic-qa-mago-ubiquity-testing
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Implement a mago test suite for Ubiquity.

=== Rationale ===

Ubiquity is an Ubuntu-specific application that would benefit greatly for rigorous automated testing. Typically a user's impression and adoption of Ubuntu is derived from their experience installing Ubuntu. It is important that this process be as smooth as possible.

=== Use Cases ===

* Run Ubiquity daily on as many machines and Ubuntu derivatives as possible.
* Increase the test coverage as much as possible with specific automated test cases.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

Given certain boot parameters the live CD should be able to run a Mago test once entering a live session, which in turn launches Ubiquity and does an automated install with LDTP.

=== Implementation ===

The implementation could be divided to three distinct parts:

# Author Mago test suite for Ubiquity.
# Add bootstrap capabilities to the live CD, so that the Mago test could start after boot.
# Deploy test to be run on a regular basis

==== Mago Tests ====

There could be multiple suites that would guide the install process through different option paths.

==== Casper boot parameter ====

We should have a way of running wget, retrieving a shell script, running it, which in turn will do bzr checkouts of mago and other dependencies, and start the test. This should all happen when the live session starts.

=== Regular testing ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

At this time there is no Ubuntu boot parameter that allows the running of arbitrary commands.

----
CategorySpec
