{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:fixed-bug-verification
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

High profile bugs that have been fixed during the development cycle or previous releases should be covered during ISO testing. Automate tests for some high-impact bugs and otherwise include coverage in the manual test cases.

=== Release Note ===

 

=== Rationale ===

During Gutsy cycle we started a document (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/FixesToVerify|FixesToVerify]]</nowiki>) with a list of bugs that were fixed during the development cycle for testing them during the ISO testing period. The procedure was manual and ad-hoc. We didn't collect positive feedback regarding whether the bug was fixed for the users/testers.

=== Use Cases ===
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/144326|Bug 144326]]</nowiki> crashes firefox when trying to print. The issue was fixed two weeks before release and we should confirm that it is and remains fixed until release.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

A manual test case will be written for each targeted bug and added to the bug description text. Corresponding automated test cases will be written in appropriate cases (as the <nowiki>[[QATeam/Specs/DesktopAutomatedTests|testing infrastructure]]</nowiki> becomes available)

==== Test case descriptions ====
Test cases should be added to the description of the bug report in a standardised format, e.g:
===== TEST CASE: =====
PROCEDURE:
## Open a terminal.
## Create an user by typing: adduser foo
## Create another user by typing: adduser bar
## Delete an user by typing: deluser bar
## Try to log in with both users.

RESULT ON PASS:
  1. You are able to log in only with foo since bar account was deleted.

RESULT ON FAIL:
  1. You still can log in with both users (foo, bar).

=== Implementation ===
==== Tags ====
* The bugs should be tagged based off the CD / Image they manifested themselves on, this tag should also indicate the ISO that it appeared on i.e. rc1-alternate CD.
* The Developers and members of the QA Team can tag the bugs if they wanted them added to the list.
* Advertise the tags being used by mailing ubuntu-devel and adding them to the wiki.

==== Criteria ====
* The criteria for identifying these bugs should be based on the scope of the impact of the bug, this will be done by:
** Starting by looking at the importance of the bug report (Medium, High or Critical).
** Look at the number of duplicate & subscribers (5 or more).
* Also a bug can be suggested as a candidate for the Fixed Bug Verification testing by someone that is not an Ubuntu Developer or a member of the QA Team, this will be done by adding a tag (fix-to-verify-candidate) to the report, later on the QA Team can approve or decline this candidate. 

==== List ====
* Bughelper is going to be used for create a list of bugs that already have the fix-to-verify tag and need to be tested. And also will perform search based on the Criteria for identifying the bugs that need to be tagged fix-to-verify.
* Both list of bugs will be found at qa.ubuntu.com in two different static html pages.
* They should be ordered by when they have appeared with the most recent ones at the top of the list.

==== Infrastructure ====
* qa.ubuntu.com is necessary to have a better area for tracking these bugs.
* A feedback mechanism for testers to indicate that the bug verification was successful (bug is fixed) is needed.
** This should happen in the feedback module of the qa tracker. 
** Regressions (bug comes back) should happen in launchpad - bug status should be flipped back to Triaged / Confirmed

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
