{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Automated Testing ==
Automated testing is the conversion of large numbers of test cases into simple scripts.  They can often be run in bulk with a single command.  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity/QA/Autopilot|Autopilot]]</nowiki> is the main way of automating testcases for ubuntu. In addition, the program <nowiki>[[Testing-Automation-Checkbox|Checkbox]]</nowiki> also allows for automated testcases to be run and recorded.

'''Advantages:''' Running tests can be very straightforward and serve as a simple complement to general testing.  Checkbox will guide you through the testing process, automating as much as possible.  If there are errors specific to your unique hardware setup, they are more likely to be fixed when detected this way. UTAH tests allow you to automate across languages and systems easily.

'''Disadvantages:''' Some of the test suites, particularly those within checkbox, will also require some manual intervention or tasks (such as confirming if a sound played).  Submission of checkbox reports requires a launchpad account.  Unless you're doing a regression test, you will also need the development release.

If you are interested in this kind of testing, start by  <nowiki>[[apt:--checkbox-gtk|installing checkbox]]</nowiki> and then run it by selecting System->Administration->System Testing.  If you wish to go further and write Autopilot test cases, you can visit the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/ContributingTestcases/Autopilot|Autopilot]]</nowiki> page for more information.
