{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:karmic-qa-unr-testing-automation
* '''Created''': UDS Karmic
* '''Contributors''': Ronald, Marc
* '''Packages affected''': Checkbox

=== Summary ===

Perform install testing of UNR on all laptop and netbook class devices as part of a regular rotation of flavours. Incorporate automated desktop UNR tests from the OEM team.

=== Rationale ===

UNR is a standard *buntu variant using the same plumbing as Ubuntu and should be tested regularly. The OEM and Mobile teams are writing a series of tests that we will leverage.

=== Assumptions ===

We get Live CDs installing successfully. 

=== Design ===

Install UNR images and run standard Ubuntu tests plus UNR-specific tests as they become available.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

===== Current Testing Issues =====
* Clutter is not testable (no toolkit support for a11y)
** adding ATK support is a target for Karmic
* Some hardware on netbooks have no tests in Checkbox
** 3G
** don't have enough SIM cards to leave these in machines in Lexington
** don't have SIM cards at all in Montreal
** can partially test by looking to see if the hardware is detected
** TV tuner
** video out
** do we need specialized hardware? (e.g. a KVM)
** can XRandR provide info?
* Need to ensure that both wired and wireless networking is tested
* audio
** internal and external mics
* detect windows that exceed the screen resolution
** might be added to OEM application launching tests

  
===== Action items =====

* Assign someone in OEM to become familiar with Checkbox Satellite (Chris Gregan)
* Pseudo-sprint to determine design needs of this system (Ronald and Chris)
** followup with Marc to get it implemented
* Find out about how to get SIM cards for hardware (Ronald)
* Integrate all OEM tests into mainline Checkbox (Ronald and Chris)
* Look into sound generation and reception testing (Ronald)
** get results to Chris and Marc
** Colin King also uses something similar (or possibly the same thing?)

----
CategorySpec
