{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by gema at 17:00:53 UTC.  The full logs are available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-09-14-17.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions

* Community Efforts/Testing

* Automated/Systems Testing

* Engineering Team Bug Status

* Other Topics

* Chair Selection
''ACTION:'' Ursinha to chair next meeting  (gema, 17:19:11)

Meeting ended at 17:19:37 UTC.

=== Action items ===

* Ursinha to chair next meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* gema (47)
* bdmurray (9)
* Ursinha (7)
* hggdh (5)
* charlie-tca (5)
* meetingology (4)
* nuclearbob (1)
* darkcharl (1)

=== Full Log ===

 17:00:53 <gema> #startmeeting QA Team meeting

 17:00:53 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Sep 14 17:00:53 2011 UTC.  The chair is gema. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 17:00:53 <meetingology> 

 17:00:53 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:01:12 <gema> So, let's start with the previous actions

 17:01:21 <gema> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 17:01:36 <gema> nuclearbob: were there any actions from last meeting?

 17:01:44 <nuclearbob> nope

 17:01:49 <gema> good, next topic

 17:01:59 <gema> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 17:02:15 <gema> does anyone have an update on community efforts ?

 17:02:46 * gema reminds you she is still not familiar with the usual players, so if anyone is meant to speak, please do so

 17:03:06 <gema> 3

 17:03:07 <gema> 2

 17:03:09 <gema> 1

 17:03:17 <gema> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 17:03:53 <gema> I have been working on putting together a set of test cases that will need to be automated at some point

 17:04:20 <gema> we are still working on the test analysis and will publish it for review soon

 17:04:26 <gema> that's all from me

 17:04:27 <gema> ..

 17:04:40 <gema> any other update?

 17:05:23 <gema> 3

 17:05:26 <gema> 2

 17:05:29 <gema> 1

 17:05:32 <gema> moving on, then

 17:05:42 <gema> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status

 17:06:02 <gema> any updates on bug status, hggdh ? are you around?

 17:06:18 <bdmurray> \o

 17:06:24 <gema> bdmurray: go for it :)

 17:06:51 <bdmurray> There has been lots of activity around writing bug patterns recently with quite a few community contributions

 17:06:55 <bdmurray> Which is a huge help

 17:07:31 <bdmurray> Yesterday, I fixed the greasemonkey script that allows easier tagging of bug reports

 17:07:48 <bdmurray> This is currently in the bzr branch and I'll add it to the firefox extension shortly

 17:08:41 <bdmurray> Oh, I also wrote a bzr plugin that modifies bug reports that have had a bug pattern written for them when you are pushing the branch with the bug pattern

 17:08:52 <bdmurray> This saves quite a few steps

 17:08:53 <Ursinha> cool!

 17:09:38 <bdmurray> And I rewrote a Launchpad bug with patches tool to be run by my bug bot and behave differently if the patch is a debdiff

 17:09:45 <bdmurray> that's all folks

 17:10:12 <gema> thanks, bdmurray

 17:10:24 <gema> excellent week, you had :)

 17:10:39 <gema> any other update ? Ursinha ?

 17:10:57 <Ursinha> after bdmurray it's hard to look I've been working :)

 17:11:31 <Ursinha> I've been working on things that aren't noticiable for now, organizing the server packages and have list of bugs given their priorities to improve triage

 17:11:52 <Ursinha> nothing much reportable :)

 17:11:53 <Ursinha> ..

 17:12:01 <gema> good, thanks

 17:12:17 <gema> moving on to the next topic unless someone has anything else :)

 17:12:39 <gema> [TOPIC] Other Topics

 17:13:07 <gema> anything else you'd like to let us know? any other business to be discussed? any suggestion?

 17:13:39 <gema> any volunteers to review a test analysis?

 17:13:53 <charlie-tca> What's involved in that?

 17:14:18 <gema> reading the document and sending comments (such as , I think you are missing this, or that, or I would do this differently)

 17:14:34 <charlie-tca> I am terrible at that kind of thing

 17:14:46 <gema> the document itself is for generating testing for Ubiquity, the installer

 17:14:56 <gema> ok, charlie-tca , not a problem :)

 17:15:20 <charlie-tca> If no one else speaks up, I can try, though

 17:15:27 <gema> go ahead :)

 17:15:55 <gema> ok, I will speak to you about it off the meeting , thanks!

 17:15:59 <charlie-tca> okay

 17:16:31 <hggdh> \o

 17:16:39 <gema> go ahead, hggdh

 17:17:04 <hggdh> just a reminder, Beta 2 is coming -- we would like as much help as possible in testing the ISOs

 17:17:07 <hggdh> ..

 17:17:22 <gema> thanks

 17:17:32 <gema> [TOPIC] Chair Selection

 17:17:44 <gema> any volunteers to chair the meeting next week?

 17:18:14 <gema> ok, let's shuffle it then!

 17:18:25 <hggdh> yeah!

 17:18:43 <gema> Ursinha, it seems to be your turn

 17:18:46 <gema> are you happy with that?

 17:18:52 <hggdh> yes!

 17:18:54 <Ursinha> sure :)

 17:18:57 <charlie-tca> Yay!

 17:19:01 <gema> cool!

 17:19:11 <gema> [ACTION] Ursinha to chair next meeting

 17:19:11 * meetingology Ursinha to chair next meeting

 17:19:16 <Ursinha> \o/

 17:19:31 <darkcharl> (a late hurray!)

 17:19:37 <gema> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
