{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

* SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
 	- Jaunty: no new packages in -proposed and 2 pushed to -updates (tzdata, zsync)<<BR>>
	- Intrepid: 2 new packages in -proposed (landscape-client, smart) and 1 pushed to -updates (tzdata)<<BR>>
	- Hardy: no new packages in -proposed and 3 packages pushed to -updates (apt-cacher, tzdata, vblade)<<BR>>
	- Dapper: no new packages in -proposed and 1 package pushed to -updates (langpack-locales)<<BR>>
* Bugday highlights -- pedro
 	- 150 triaged the last week at Server Team Bug Day
	- This Week the focus is ISO testing
* RC Testing -- ara
 	- Dell Mini9 and OEM setups issue (http://launchpad.net/bugs/456990) which need to be tested in a netbook, help required
 
=== Logs ===

<pre>
[18:00] <marjo> #startmeeting QA Team Meeting
[18:00] <MootBot> Meeting started at 12:00. The chair is marjo.
[18:00] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[18:00] <marjo> Hi folks! Thanks for joining us today.
[18:00] <marjo> Agenda for today's meeting
[18:00] <marjo> # SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[18:00] <marjo> # Bugday highlights -- pedro
[18:00] <marjo> # RC Testing -- ara
[18:00] <sbeattie> hey
[18:01] <marjo> Does anybody want to add anything to the agenda?
[18:01] <marjo> [TOPIC] SRU Testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[18:01] <MootBot> New Topic:  SRU Testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[18:01] <sbeattie> SRU Activity for the past week (since 2009-10-14):
[18:01] <sbeattie> * Jaunty: no new packages in -proposed and 2 pushed to -updates (tzdata, zsync)
[18:01] <sbeattie> * Intrepid: 2 new packages in -proposed (landscape-client, smart) and 1 pushed to -updates (tzdata)
[18:01] <sbeattie> * Hardy: no new packages in -proposed and 3 packages pushed to -updates (apt-cacher, tzdata, vblade)
[18:01] <sbeattie> * Dapper: no new packages in -proposed and 1 package pushed to -updates (langpack-locales)
[18:02] <sbeattie> Thanks to Paul Elliott, Dave Morley, and Wolfgang Kufner for testing fixes this week.
[18:02] <sbeattie> That's all I have on SRUs.
[18:02] <marjo> [TOPIC] Bugday Highlights -- pedro
=== imlad|away is now known as imlad
[18:02] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugday Highlights -- pedro
[18:03] <pedro_> Last Thursday we ran a bug day for the Server Team
[18:03] <marjo> Thanks sbeattie!
[18:03] <pedro_> it was a general bug day, so we created bug lists based on all the packages they're currently tracking
[18:04] <pedro_> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20091014
[18:04] <pedro_> it turned out to be really cool, around 150 bugs were triaged
[18:04] <marjo> pedro: nice work!
[18:04] <pedro_> so thanks a lot to zul and ttx for helping us that day and for answering the questions the community had
[18:05] <pedro_> and also thanks to kamus and sbarjola for their participation
[18:05] <pedro_> I'm not planning to run a bug day for this week, since I'd like to put some more efforts into iso testing instead :-)
[18:06] <pedro_> that's all from here
[18:07] <marjo> pedro: nice segue for our next topic; thx
[18:07] <pedro_> my pleasure :-)
[18:07] <marjo> [TOPIC] RC Testing (ara)
[18:07] <MootBot> New Topic:  RC Testing (ara)
[18:07] <ara> As you all know, tomorrow we are releasing Karmic Release Candidate
[18:08] <ara> it is the last milestone before the final release
[18:08] <ara> and we all have to try to make our best to complete all the test cases
[18:08] <ara> as usual, these two links will tell you what needs to be done: http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/all/inprogress
[18:08] <ara> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/all/untested
[18:08] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/all/untested
[18:09] <ara> http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/all/inprogress
[18:09] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/build/all/inprogress
[18:10] <ara> I am having an issue with Dell mini9 and OEM setups
[18:10] <ara> http://launchpad.net/bugs/456990
[18:10] <MootBot> LINK received:  http://launchpad.net/bugs/456990
[18:10] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: The read operation timed out (https://launchpad.net/bugs/456990)
[18:10] <ara> but I cannot reproduce it outside the mini9
[18:10] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: The read operation timed out (https://launchpad.net/bugs/456990)
[18:10] <ara> does anyone one owns a netbook?
[18:11] <pedro_> not me
[18:11] <ara> mmm, I see it is fixed now
=== playya__ is now known as playya
[18:11] <ara> it was the usb creator, apparently
[18:12] <ara> all the issues that prevented installation seem isolated
[18:12] <ara> that's good news
[18:13] <ara> but we need to cover all the rest
[18:13] <marjo> ara: anything else?
[18:13] <ara> marjo, no, that's it
[18:13] <marjo> Folks: Please help us achieve 100% test coverage on RC!
[18:14] <marjo> At Beta, we hit 98%, oh so close
[18:15] <ara> I have another small topic
[18:15] <marjo> ara go
[18:15] <davmor2> marjo: we got 100% it's just the last 2 test got done the next day ;)
[18:16] <ara> One community member, Cesar Muñoz, have offered to update the QATeam wiki with meeting logs and summary
[18:16] <ara> He is starting this week
[18:17] <marjo> davmor2: i'll take your 100%!
[18:17] <sbeattie> ara: he just did last week's meeting; thanks Cesar!
[18:17] <pedro_> awesome!
[18:17] <ara> \o/
[18:17] <davmor2> Nice one dude
[18:18] <marjo> thanks Cesar Munoz!
[18:18] <marjo> ara: anything else?
[18:19] <ara> marjo, no, that's it
[18:19] <marjo> ara thx!
[18:19] <marjo> folks: anything else from anyone?
[18:20] <davmor2> nope
[18:20] <marjo> karmic quality is looking very good
[18:20] <marjo> i propose we adjourn, so we can continue testing.
[18:20] <marjo> going once
[18:20] <marjo> twice
[18:21] <marjo> thanks folks! see you next time
[18:21] <marjo> #endmeeting
</pre>
