{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:bloat-reduction
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

We are approaching the hard 700MB limit on our CDs and we have broken the 256MB min. RAM requirement on the Live CDs. Having removed language packs and other low hanging fruit for some cycles we are now facing having to consider feature reduction or a change of medium.

Investigate the areas where removing certain applications can contribute to a simpler and improved desktop experience such as the gThumb/F-spot duplication of functionality. (technical solutions such as compression methods and linking can be discussed elsewhere).

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

=== Use Cases ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

==== Code Changes ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

=== Outstanding Issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
