{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== General ideas ===
* Not action oriented but demand oriented. (Demandstorm)
* Assign an idea to a package, possibly with sub-domains to access the list of ideas for a specific packages
* Publish developer ideas on the brainstorm blog
* Make sure developers know about the developer comment feature.
* Brainstorm Upstream Forwarding team - Murat Gunes / Jorge Castro
* Treat ideas like forwarding upstream bugs. The "backend" of brainstorm should be using a wishlist bug.
* Make Launchpad look friendlier, attractive to idea suggestions
* Add voting to bug/idea reports (bug #149775) + allow sorting by votes (most popular per day/week/month), etc.
* Better explain the "upstream" vs. "distro" distinction
* "Summer of Ubuntu" -  6 months
* Expand the explanation of an idea so people don't have unrealistic expectations.
* Upstreams should be able to make declarations:
* Decline ideas and post that they won't be implemented
* Be able to search Brainstorm by Project.
* Use tags so people can tag ideas and then forward those search queries to upstream projects.

=== Ubuntu idea trackers, in order of appearance ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IdeaPool|IdeaPool]]</nowiki> (deprecated)
* Launchpad Bugs
* Launchpad Blueprints
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityEdgyIdeas|CommunityEdgyIdeas]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityFeistyIdeas|CommunityFeistyIdeas]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityGutsyIdeas|CommunityGutsyIdeas]]</nowiki>
* Brainstorm
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=306|Idea Pool on Forums]]</nowiki> (Propose for deprecation)

=== Stats ===
62 ideas with devel comment at the top !!! (out of 8257)
