{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Under Construction..

(Adding to this page tests that are specific for Ubuntu Studio)

=== Desktop Test ===

'''Begin Session'''

Boot into Ubuntu Studio and login as user. (Note: make sure to reboot after any software updates before testing, even if not asked to.)

'''Mount Devices'''

If you have a USB drive, plug it in.
Check that the USB drive can be mounted from the desktop icon or nautilus and that you can open files from it. 
(Note: Ubuntu Studio does not mount any hot plugged devices by default.)
Also, make sure it can be unmounted.

If you have a DVD or an audio CD, insert it.
Check that the disk can be mounted as above and that you can open and/or play files/tracks from it.
Also, make sure it can be unmounted.

'''End Session'''

Log out, shutdown or restart. 
Confirm the session is terminated properly.

=== Applications ===
In the menu, make sure all the links under “Ubuntu Studio Information” work.
* Ubuntu Studio IRC
* Ubuntu Studio Forums
* etc..

=== Audio Check ===
First, make sure no audio applications are running (including any web pages).

'''Desktop Audio Test (Pulseaudio)'''

Open firefox and go to any page that has audio content to confirm desktop audio is working.
Use the volume applet and click "Sound Settings" to open the pulseaudio mixer.
If you are not getting any sound after a fresh boot, and you're sure you've chosen the right device, see <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/ProAudioIntro/1204#No_Volume.3F]]</nowiki>.

'''Jack Test'''

Again, make sure no applications are running (such as firefox). Open qjackctl. Start jack and confirm that jack starts in real time mode. 
Now, stop jack and confirm it closes properly.

'''Jack Pulse bridge test'''

Look in Qjackctl -> “Connect” to confirm that pulseaudio sink and source are created after starting jack.
Open the pulseaudio mixer. Set Pulseaudio to use jack output and input, and test sound.

..Anything else (graphics, video, monitor setup?)
