{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<<BR>>

== Reporting a bug for ubuntu touch ==
All bugs filed should use the '''avengers''' tag. '''Please ensure you add the 'avengers' tag when filing'''. If you think the bug you are reporting is a good candidate for an automated test to prevent future regressions, you may also add '''touch-needs-autopilot''' to the bug.

=== What package should I file against? ===
File against the ubuntu source package for the failed component. <nowiki>[[QATeam-TouchTesting-BugFiling|See this page]]</nowiki> for a full broken out list of components.

=== Filing the Bug ===
To file a bug, it's easiest to connect your device to a pc.

Connect your device to the pc via a usb cable. Next, shell into the device by typing '''phablet-shell'''. If you need to, install the '''phablet-tools''' package so this command is availible to you.
<pre>
$ phablet-shell 
</pre>

Check for the existence of a crash file in /var/crashes. If the crash file matches the date and time of the issue you experience, you can use the <nowiki>[[#Filing_with_a_crash_file_in_.2BAC8-var.2BAC8-crash|crash file to file the bug]]</nowiki> as it contains information useful to a developer. If there is no crash file, continue to file the bug using <nowiki>[[#Using_ubuntu-bug|ubuntu-bug]]</nowiki>.

<pre>
$ ls -al /var/crash
</pre>

==== Using ubuntu-bug ====
Since there is no crash file, you need to determine the package that is misbehaving. You will need the package name of the package in order to file.  ''<nowiki>[[#What_package_should_I_file_against.3F|Unsure of which package?]]</nowiki>''

While still shelled into the device, run the ubuntu-bug command, specifying the package name as the argument. 

<pre>
$ ubuntu-bug PACKAGE_NAME
</pre>

Now, continue <nowiki>[[#Filing_the_bug_via_launchpad|filing the bug via launchpad]]</nowiki>.

==== Filing with a crash file in /var/crash ====

If the bug is a crash and there is a crash file in /var/crash, you can report it with apport.

From a shell on the device, run the follow apport command:

<pre>
  $ apport-cli /var/crash/name_of_crash_file.crash
</pre>

Apport will read the crash file and process it. Follow the instructions as prompted. When you are asked, "What would you like to do?", enter 's' to send the report.

Now, continue <nowiki>[[#Filing_the_bug_via_launchpad|filing the bug via launchpad]]</nowiki>.

==== Finishing the bug report ====
Apport will upload the report, and display a URL, looking similar to this

<pre>
* ** To continue, you must visit the following URL:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart-app-launch/+filebug/<UUID>
</pre>

If prompted, you may safely enter 'c' to cancel launching a browser on the device.

Instead, copy and paste the link from the terminal into a browser window on your pc for easier report entry. The browser will launch and display a ready to file bug report. Finish filling in the description of the issue. When filing, make sure you include the steps needed for others to reproduce the issue, and what the result was versus what you expected the result to be. If you are reporting a crash, mention what you were doing on the device when the crash occurred. This is important to ensure the bug is able to be reproduced, and ultimately fixed.

That's it, thanks for helping make ubuntu better!

== Triaging ==
Once bugs have been filed they need to be confirmed, and ideally, have a defined scenario for recreating in order for developers to fix them. To help with triaging, simply read a bug report from the list below and try it on the latest build for your device. If you can recreate it, mark the bug status as ''confirmed''.

=== Quick links to buglists ===
==== Needs work ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=avengers&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on&search=Search|Bugs needing triaged (tagged with 'avengers' and a new or incomplete with response status)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=touch-needs-autopilot&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on&search=Search&orderby=-datecreated&start=0|Bugs that could be automated (tagged with 'touch-needs-autopilot']]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=qa-touch-automated&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|Bugs in progress of being automated (tagged with 'qa-touch-automated' and a non-fix released status)]]</nowiki>

==== Completed work ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=avengers&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|Bugs that have been fixed (tagged with 'avengers' and a fix released status)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.tag=qa-touch-automated&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_branches=on&field.has_no_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches=on&field.has_blueprints.used=&field.has_blueprints=on&field.has_no_blueprints.used=&field.has_no_blueprints=on|Bugs that have been automated (tagged with 'qa-touch-automated' and a fix released status)]]</nowiki>

==== List of all reported Bugs ====
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.tag=avengers|All 'avengers' bug reports]]</nowiki>

=== Tags ===
Tags are used to keep handy lists of the work being done. It lets us see the status of bugs and testcase automation.

==== What does each tag mean? ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Tag
| Description
|-
| avengers
| Used for filing bugs found during exploratory testing of ubuntu touch images
|-
| touch-needs-autopilot
| Used to tag bugs that are candidates for automation to prevent recurrence once fixed
|-
| qa-touch-automated
| Used to tag bugs that are being automated with autopilot
|}
