{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:qa-website-tracker

=== Summary ===

This specification is about updating the current QA Testing Tracker mainly to support the options needed by the other teams (it was first done for the ISO team).

=== Release Note ===

Testers can now easily help testing all kind of hardware, software or ISOs using the Ubuntu QA Website and its test tracking module.

=== Rationale ===

The current testing tracker is only focused on ISO, we need to use it for other things like software and hardware.

=== Use Cases ===

* Bob is part of the X team and wants to help testing the new packages, he simply clicks on the icon next to the package he wants to test and get the instruction about how to get the packages (from PPA).
* John is a QA team admin and want to add a new website with new products, testcases and some user settings specific to this website, he simply goes to the Admin part and does that all himself without stgraber help :)
* Richard is doing testing for the X team using a script, he can then post his result by uploading the result file on the result page.

=== Design ===

Making the Tracker no longer ISO specific, easier to use for both the users and the QA team.

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

* Integrate PPA/cdimage/archive correctly so the user can simply click on the icon next to the build and read the download instructions
* The test status will include the number of subscribers
* File attachment support - This can include a test report with pass/fail details for each part of the test (often generated by automated tests)
* Improved report and statistics (idealy we should easily be able to check if there is an increase or decrease of failure from a version to another) '''[50% Done through the report page]'''
* Add missing Admin interfaces (site, product, testcase and user setting)
* Make the testcase sortable by the admins '''[Done]'''
* Hide builds with no testcase in archives
* Add statistics at the bottom of the main page '''[Moved to the report page]'''
* Let admins add a list of builds they want the users to test (proposed in the update-manager) with a list of hardware condition (an example would be linux-restricted-modules and the nvidia module) '''[Deferred to Hardy+1]'''
* Add a RSS feed for latest builds

==== Code Changes ====
 
* XML-RPC interface for automated testing results '''[Deferred to Hardy+1]'''
* File attachment support for automated testing result (or testing script as the ones used by the X team)

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

A test website will be running somewhere on .stgraber.org as soon as the main website will have been moved to qa.ubuntu.com

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategorySpec
