{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Ubuntu Quality ==
'''The Ubuntu Quality team''' is focused on developing and maintaining the policies and practices for ensuring Ubuntu's quality as a distribution as well as providing general advice, oversight, and leadership of QA community and its activities within the Ubuntu project. 

=== Getting Involved ===
You can get involved with the Ubuntu Quality team in several ways. To help you figure out what you can do to help us, we have split the tasks in several roles:

==== Next Steps ====
After you've found out the area(s) where you want to help us with, we recommend '''subscribing to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality|Ubuntu Quality mailing list]]</nowiki>'''. Announcements and coordination for testing will occur on this list.

Also consider stopping by on IRC and saying hello in realtime! We hang out in the '''<nowiki>[[https://web.libera.chat/?nick=webchat?#ubuntu-quality|#ubuntu-quality]]</nowiki> IRC channel''' on the Libera.Chat IRC network.

There are a few tutorials to get you started:
* '''For testers:''' <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentSetup|Setting up a development-testing installation]]</nowiki>
* '''For people who plan to contribute to things maintained in Bzr branches (testcases and code):''' <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentToolsSetup|Setting up development tools]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentToolsUsage|Working with Bzr branches and Launchpad]]</nowiki>

Additionally, if you need '''more information or guidance on getting started''', you can ask for help both in the mailing list and the IRC channel.

==== Further resources ====
* The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-testing|Launchpad QA Team]]</nowiki> is open for everybody helping out the QA team to join!
* You can send an introductory email to the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quality|Ubuntu Quality mailing list]]</nowiki> list introducing yourself and your plans for working in the team.
* You can add your information on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Hardware|Hardware]]</nowiki> page.
* The <nowiki>[[QATeam-FAQ|FAQ page]]</nowiki> answers the most common questions.
