{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Meeting started Wed Jan  4 17:00:03 2012 UTC.  The chair is phillw Minutes:        http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-04-17.00.moin.txt

-----

=== Meeting summary ===

* attendance

* actions from last meeting
''ACTION:'' patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins.  (phillw, 17:07:40)

* blueprints
** other-p-qa-qa-regression-testing  (phillw, 17:11:01)
** other-p-qa-boot-speed-testing  (phillw, 17:13:15)
''LINK:'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/boot-speed/acer-veriton-01/index.html   (nuclearbob, 17:13:52)
''LINK:'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/boot-speed/acer-veriton-01/index.html   (phillw, 17:14:20)
** other-p-builds-smoke-testing  (phillw, 17:15:20)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestingTypeAndBugTracking   (nuclearbob, 17:15:57)
''LINK:'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qa/qa-open-bugs.html   (nuclearbob, 17:16:14)
''LINK:'' http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qa/qa-closed-bugs.html   (nuclearbob, 17:16:25)

* xubuntu

* lubuntu
''LINK:'' https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-qa   (stenten, 17:21:05)

* any other business

* next chair

Meeting ended at 17:26:03 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins.

=== People present (lines said) ===

* phillw (38)
* nuclearbob (22)
* charlie-tca (13)
* stenten (4)
* meetingology (4)
* cjwatson (3)
* avarisclari (2)
* alourie (2)
* MrChrisDruif (2)

=== Full Log ===

 17:00:03 <phillw> #startmeeting QA Team Meeting

 17:00:03 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jan  4 17:00:03 2012 UTC.  The chair is phillw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 17:00:03 <meetingology> 

 17:00:03 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:00:28 <phillw> hello everyone! please show yourself as present :)

 17:00:43 <phillw> #topic attendance

 17:00:50 <alourie> phillw: sorry, I'm missing in person today

 17:00:56 <alourie> will read logs later

 17:01:02 * charlie-tca seems to be here today

 17:01:08 <phillw> alourie: no worries

 17:01:48 <phillw> anyone else here?

 17:02:00 <stenten> I'm here from Lubuntu QA

 17:02:57 <phillw> hmm, seems only lubutnu and xubuntu QA represented?

 17:03:15 <charlie-tca> That's all we ever have, isn't it?

 17:03:29 <phillw> it'll be a short meeting!

 17:03:45 * charlie-tca don't know for sure, seems to have missed a couple of meetings himself.

 17:04:28 <MrChrisDruif> Aloha phillw

 17:04:34 <phillw> hi MrChrisDruif

 17:05:00 <phillw> I'll give it a couple ofmore minutes to see if any late comers...

 17:05:04 <avarisclari> good morning/evening/whateveryourtimezone is

 17:05:20 * MrChrisDruif will only lurk thou

 17:06:29 <nuclearbob> howdy

 17:06:43 <phillw> #topic actions from last meeting

 17:06:58 <phillw> patrickmw: are you here?

 17:07:33 <phillw> I'll carry that one forward

 17:07:40 <phillw> #action patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins.

 17:07:40 * meetingology patrickmw to publish a list of launchpad projects that conform our automated testing in jenkins.

 17:08:21 <phillw> #topic blueprints

 17:08:54 <phillw> Are there any people present who can give an update on any of the blue print sub-topics?

 17:09:11 <nuclearbob> are subtopics distinct from individual blueprints, or are those the same?

 17:10:04 <phillw> nuclearbob: I list the individual blue-prints as sub-toopics (I think, from memory that is how gema structures them).

 17:10:27 <avarisclari> i'm a new guy thought i'd start attending meetings and help test, so iunno

 17:10:41 <nuclearbob> I can give some updates on other-p-qa-qa-regression-testing

 17:11:01 <phillw> #subtopic other-p-qa-qa-regression-testing

 17:11:03 <nuclearbob> and other-p-qa-boot-speed-testing

 17:11:20 <nuclearbob> on the qa-regression-testing, autotest-server and autotest-client packages are now available in my ppa

 17:11:21 <phillw> nuclearbob: if you'd start with other-p-qa-qa-regression-testing

 17:11:58 <nuclearbob> sconklin has been evaluating kernel test suites for inclusion into regular testing, and he feels that autotest will be a good fit for future inclusion, so I'm working with him on determining which of their existing tests we want to run

 17:12:36 <nuclearbob> I'm also getting the qrt tests setup to run on images for all currently supported series for both x86 and amd64

 17:13:02 <nuclearbob> and that's all for that blueprint for this week

 17:13:10 <phillw> thanks

 17:13:15 <phillw> #subtopic other-p-qa-boot-speed-testing

 17:13:36 <nuclearbob> I've been working with patrickmw on that, we've got architecture added now

 17:13:52 <nuclearbob> so, for instance, if you visit:

 17:13:52 <nuclearbob> http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/boot-speed/acer-veriton-01/index.html

 17:14:09 <nuclearbob> you can see results for historical and recent tests on i386 and amd64

 17:14:20 <phillw> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/boot-speed/acer-veriton-01/index.html

 17:14:47 <nuclearbob> that's all I've got for this one, but I remembered I also have an update for other-p-builds-smoke-testing

 17:15:15 <phillw> thanks

 17:15:20 <phillw> #subtopic other-p-builds-smoke-testing

 17:15:52 <nuclearbob> we now generate two reports based on the updated qa bug tagging criteria described here:

 17:15:57 <nuclearbob> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/AutomatedTesting/TestingTypeAndBugTracking

 17:16:08 <nuclearbob> an open bugs report is here:

 17:16:14 <nuclearbob> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qa/qa-open-bugs.html

 17:16:19 <nuclearbob> and a closed bugs report is here:

 17:16:25 <nuclearbob> #link http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/qa/qa-closed-bugs.html

 17:16:49 <nuclearbob> I'm working on consolidating bug tasks in the report, since they currently appear separately, adding extra lines that don't really provide much more information

 17:17:02 <nuclearbob> I don't have an ETA on that, but I'll update everyone when it's ready

 17:17:06 <nuclearbob> and that's all for me this week

 17:17:16 <phillw> thanks nuclearbob :)

 17:17:39 <phillw> #topic xubuntu

 17:17:48 <phillw> charlie-tca: ...

 17:17:59 <charlie-tca> Oh

 17:18:20 <charlie-tca> Both desktop images and alternate-i386 are oversize for Xubuntu

 17:18:32 <charlie-tca> strange quirk I am still verifying...

 17:19:16 <charlie-tca> If "Install Xubuntu" is picked from cd menu, the first screen shows languages. Hitting Enter results in the top most language being selected and the rest of the screens are in that language.

 17:19:20 <cjwatson> they're oversized for a lot of things

 17:19:38 <cjwatson> topmost?  odd

 17:19:43 <charlie-tca> Will enter a bug for that one after I get it verified

 17:19:43 <cjwatson> should be English

 17:20:02 <charlie-tca> It defaults to english, but hitting enter instead of clicking the mouse forces the top language instead

 17:20:31 <charlie-tca> That's all from here for today...

 17:20:32 <charlie-tca> ..

 17:20:39 <phillw> thanks

 17:20:43 <phillw> #lubuntu

 17:20:51 <phillw> #topic lubuntu

 17:20:59 <stenten> phillw created the Lubuntu QA team as requested. The team can be found on Launchpad at:

 17:21:05 <stenten> #link https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-qa

 17:21:21 <stenten> I think that's it from me at least :)

 17:22:09 <phillw> all seems quiet on the lubuntu front - charlie-tca if you verify your bug, I'll check it with a lubuntu install to see if it across flavours.

 17:22:28 <charlie-tca> Okay

 17:22:32 <charlie-tca> will let you know

 17:23:00 <phillw> #topic any other business

 17:23:20 <phillw> Has anyone any further points to raise?

 17:23:58 <phillw> #topic next chair

 17:24:16 <phillw> does anyone wish to chair the next meeting?

 17:25:00 <phillw> I'll leave myself there, until I can confirm with gema that she'll be back next week :)

 17:25:27 <phillw> hopefully with the end of the festivities things will be back to normal

 17:25:57 <phillw> thank you to all who attended.

 17:26:03 <phillw> #endmeeting
