{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/certify-web/+spec/qa-cert-testing-proposed|qa-cert-testing-proposed]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''': 2008-12-05
* '''Contributors''': cr3

=== Summary ===

Uploads of certain packages to the -proposed archive should trigger a full test run on all certified hardware. We can currently do this manually but should add more automation.

=== Release Note ===

=== Rationale ===

When an upload lands in -proposed we want to test it for regressions across all available hardware.

=== Use Cases ===

* A new kernel is uploaded to -proposed which triggers an install + test run on all the hardware in the Canonical test labs.
* A new xorg is uploaded to -proposed which triggers an install and video+input tests on all laptops (and some desktops?)
* Steve is testing an SRU for a hardware-specific issue. He searches the hardware certification website and finds a system with the relevant hardware. From the website he can boot and install the system with -proposed enabled. He logs in via KVM and performs his testing manually.

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

==== Triggering ====

==== By uploads to -proposed ====

* An upload to -proposed of one of the following packages flipps a <code>proposed-test-run</code> flag and set a timer:
** <code>linux, xorg, lbm, udev, hal, ...</code> '''XXX'''
** '''XXX''' How do we detect -proposed uploads, parse the mailing-list?
* packages determine the machine-type and teststo be queued
** <code>linux, udev, hal:</code> all machines
** <code>xorg:</code> laptops (and some desktops?) with resolution tests
** '''XXX''' - need complete mapping
* After a set period (say, 48hrs) the proposed run is initiated 

===== Manually from website =====

* '''XXX''' Need to decide what pages to trigger runs from and to mock-up a GUI

==== Publishing results ====

* Publish complete test results on the certification website
* Publish sanetised results in a publicly-viewable location
* In both cases this could be an XML file with a simple HTML transform

=== Implementation ===

==== UI Changes ====

A button should be added to the machine page to initiate an install run. Strawman:

{{{
Launch install test:
[Milestone drop-down] [x] Enable -proposed}}}

==== Code Changes ====

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Test manually on the staging server.

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
