{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by balloons at 17:01:11 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-01-25-17.01.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions
''ACTION:'' gema and balloons to provide feedback from mozilla caseconductor meeting  (balloons, 17:09:14)
''ACTION:'' alourie to feature AutomatedTesting wiki page prominently in wiki, based upon list discussion  (balloons, 17:09:49)
''ACTION:'' balloons to continue test case review and provide updates on progress  (balloons, 17:15:06)

* Ubuntu Flavor Updates

* Blueprint updates / discussion

* Other topics
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Procedures   (gema, 17:41:07)

Meeting ended at 17:43:13 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* gema and balloons to provide feedback from mozilla caseconductor meeting
* alourie to feature AutomatedTesting wiki page prominently in wiki, based upon list discussion
* balloons to continue test case review and provide updates on progress

=== Action items, by person ===

* balloons
* * gema and balloons to provide feedback from mozilla caseconductor meeting
* * balloons to continue test case review and provide updates on progress
* gema
* * gema and balloons to provide feedback from mozilla caseconductor meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* balloons (59)
* gema (22)
* txomon|home (14)
* ScottK (8)
* meetingology (6)
* phillw (4)
* albrigha (1)
* shrish (1)
* ubottu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 17:01:11 <balloons> #startmeeting Ubuntu QA Team

 17:01:11 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Jan 25 17:01:11 2012 UTC.  The chair is balloons. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 17:01:11 <meetingology> 

 17:01:11 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 17:01:40 <balloons> who's all here? and secondly does anyone have any topics not on the agenda they wish to add?

 17:02:07 <shrish> am here

 17:02:21 <albrigha> o/

 17:04:16 <balloons> alright, some folks might trickle in late, we'll continue

 17:04:17 <balloons> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 17:05:06 * gema is here too

 17:05:07 <balloons> so, "alourie to feature AutomatedTesting wiki page prominently in wiki"

 17:05:20 <phillw> here

 17:05:38 <balloons> I don't believe he is here.. I'll go check the wiki and see if any changes were made. If not, we'll push to next week for his update

 17:06:38 <balloons> ok, not seeing anything :-) next up is gema's action

 17:06:50 <balloons> gema discuss case conductor with mozilla folks and provide update

 17:07:10 <gema> balloons: you ended up doing it too x)

 17:07:20 <gema> we are going to have a chat with the Mozilla folks on Friday

 17:07:35 <gema> see how much of our original reqs they've been able to implement

 17:08:17 <gema> so I guess the update will come next week

 17:08:35 <balloons> thank you gema, I will roll that action now

 17:09:14 <balloons> [action] gema and balloons to provide feedback from mozilla caseconductor meeting

 17:09:14 * meetingology gema and balloons to provide feedback from mozilla caseconductor meeting

 17:09:49 <balloons> [action] alourie to feature AutomatedTesting wiki page prominently in wiki, based upon list discussion

 17:09:49 * meetingology alourie to feature AutomatedTesting wiki page prominently in wiki, based upon list discussion

 17:09:56 <balloons> ok, finally the last one was for me

 17:10:04 <balloons> balloons to review test cases for i386,x64 and coordinate updates

 17:11:02 <balloons> I began looking into the manual test cases and sent out some mails to the list. In addition, I started going thru the tests on the iso tracker, but have not finished getting thru and speaking with others about the tests I found

 17:12:28 <balloons> Did anyone else take a look at manual test cases or the iso tests, or have any plans to do so? :-)

 17:12:55 * gema looks to the floor...

 17:12:57 <balloons> I *believe* alpha 2 drops next week correct?

 17:13:06 <gema> yes

 17:13:33 <gema> by drops you mean fails or you mean happens ? :)

 17:13:38 <balloons> gema would you mind discussing that a bit after our scheduled agenda?

 17:13:46 <balloons> I mean happens :-)

 17:13:49 <gema> I hope jibel is around

 17:13:58 <gema> he is the one coordinating alpha 2 from our side

 17:14:07 <gema> he'll surely send an email later this week asking for collaboration

 17:14:16 <balloons> ok, on my action I will roll it over again to next week and try and get some more work done on that front

 17:14:24 <gema> ok

 17:14:41 <gema> it'd be good for you to run some tests for alpha 2 as well, balloons, to get the feel for it :D

 17:15:02 <gema> and feel the pressure of the milestone .. the adrenaline rush, it's quite good

 17:15:06 <balloons> [action] balloons to continue test case review and provide updates on progress

 17:15:06 * meetingology balloons to continue test case review and provide updates on progress

 17:15:16 <balloons> gema, yes I will definitely plan on it

 17:15:23 <balloons> ok, let's move on

 17:16:38 * txomon|home arrive

 17:16:42 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Flavor Updates

 17:17:00 <balloons> thanks to ScottK I got the terminology right this week (i hope)

 17:17:12 <balloons> let's start with kubuntu -- anyone about?

 17:17:26 <ScottK> Sure.

 17:17:40 <balloons> anything to share ScottK?

 17:17:50 <ScottK> The KDE SC 4.7.4 update I mentioned last week transitioned to oneiric-updates on Monday.

 17:18:10 <ScottK> Riddell is working landing KDE SC 4.8.0 for precise as we speak.

 17:18:27 <ScottK> So for KDE stuff we should be ~ready for Alpha 2.

 17:18:29 <balloons> awesome -- and it releases next week also correct?

 17:18:34 <balloons> I mean KDE

 17:18:39 <ScottK> 4.8.0 is released today.

 17:18:51 <balloons> ohh.. feels early :-)

 17:19:16 <balloons> awesome, so alpha 2 will ship with 4.8, great news

 17:19:28 <ScottK> The biggest concern for Alpha 2 is we had to skip Alpha 1, so the installer hasn't had a big workout

 17:19:40 <ScottK> We have some success reports, so hopefully it's all good.

 17:19:44 <ScottK> Tha'ts it.

 17:19:48 <balloons> thank you

 17:20:00 <balloons> how about xubuntu?

 17:20:24 <balloons> I don't see anyone here..

 17:20:46 <balloons> let's move on. I know phillw is here -- anything to report from lubuntu?

 17:20:50 <phillw> our main issue is bug 918401 which is proving problematical for our Head of Dev to sort out as the proposed fix works on his system but for none of us testers :/

 17:20:52 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 918401 in lubuntu-meta (Ubuntu) "Unity-greeter installed by default on Lubuntu, crashing on start" [Undecided,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/918401

 17:21:23 <balloons> ohh really?

 17:21:28 <phillw> you CAN login, but blindly. Other new bits for precise seem to be behaving.

 17:22:30 <phillw> it may be causing a problem with Wubi, but we're not sure. That's all from lubuntu.

 17:22:42 <balloons> thank you phillw

 17:23:02 <balloons> how about ubuntu studio? astraljava?

 17:24:02 <balloons> :-), we'll move on again.. Finally, edubuntu. anyone around?

 17:24:53 <balloons> ok, let's change topics then

 17:25:11 <balloons> [TOPIC] Blueprint updates / discussion

 17:25:40 <balloons> I know I skipped blueprints last week, but I thought I would provide a place if anyone wanted to mention anything specific regarding status or help for a blueprint

 17:27:19 <balloons> ok, sounds fine. That ends our scheduled topics.

 17:27:25 <balloons> [TOPIC] Other topics

 17:27:27 <balloons> We have two additional items to discuss. An update from me, and an update from jibel and gema on alpha 2. does anyone else have any other topics to discuss?

 17:27:49 <balloons> if not, we'll begin with my item

 17:28:05 <txomon|home> mine is just to mention I contacted cobbler guys

 17:28:34 <balloons> ok txomon|home we can discuss it first -- what did you find out

 17:28:35 <balloons> ?

 17:29:24 <txomon|home> Well, I contacted cobbler guys in their list, and they mentioned that the docs where prepared for the original cobbler project

 17:30:12 <txomon|home> And that they spected Orchestra guys could make a doc for the ubuntu version

 17:31:09 <balloons> txomon|home, did you speak to Roakasoax?

 17:31:12 <txomon|home> He said it  was just a cascade style sheet and some kickstart addons, the documentation they had could be more use full

 17:31:38 <txomon|home> balloons, don't know that name...

 17:32:12 <balloons> whoops, have an extra a in there

 17:32:30 <txomon|home> I expressed badly, I meant that the more changes Orchestra did, the less reliable would be the docs

 17:32:34 <balloons> Roaksoax.. regardless, he would be a good person to contact on cobbler, specific to ubuntu

 17:32:42 <txomon|home> I can pass you the mail btw

 17:32:46 <txomon|home> (to the list)

 17:33:02 <txomon|home> oki

 17:33:23 <balloons> ok, sounds good

 17:33:59 <txomon|home> I will try once more with cobbler

 17:34:27 <txomon|home> I did some tests, and If you are using VMs to test, netboot is not necessary

 17:35:02 <txomon|home> the most... Useful item is the proxy cachï¿½

 17:35:30 <txomon|home> that's everything

 17:36:28 <balloons> thank you.. I'm as curious as ever to see what you end up putting together for this..

 17:36:31 <balloons> I'll go ahead bext. I am undertaking a point to highlight everyone in ubuntu community who is working on quality, and I wanted to make sure I included some good info and contact info on the different flavor qa teams in addition to ubuntu

 17:38:01 <balloons> I will send a message to the list as well, but if someone from each flavor's QA team wished to send along (or better yet, point me to a web page) a couple sentence description of the work and a way of contacting that would be wonderful

 17:38:55 <balloons> I trust that makes sense to everyone.. if no one has any questions, we'll get to our last item

 17:39:52 <balloons> ok, gema and jibel your up. can you talk a little about alpha 2 and what the qa team has planned?

 17:40:04 <gema> balloons: jibel is not around, I think

 17:40:20 <gema> next week is alpha2 week and we welcome all the testing everyone can do to help

 17:40:25 <gema> watch out for jibel's email

 17:40:31 <gema> regarding how to proceed

 17:41:07 <gema> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Procedures

 17:41:13 <gema> here is the explanation on how to help

 17:42:11 <gema> that's all from me

 17:42:53 <balloons> thank you gema. Ok, that concludes this week's meeting then. thanks for coming everyone!

 17:43:02 <balloons> #end meeting

 17:43:11 <gema> thank you for chairing, balloons !

 17:43:13 <balloons> #endmeeting
