{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Maverick Beta Test Report - 3rd September 2010 ==

=== Summary ===

==== Test Coverage ====
* Image Coverage: 50/52 = 96.1%
   
   Uncovered images:
** Netboot arm dove
** Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Asia-Pacific) amd64

* Mandatory Testcase Coverage: 183/195 = 93.85
* Optional Testcase Coverage: 30/40 = 75.00

==== Test Failure Analysis ====
* 22 Test Failures
* Failure Rate 22/213 = 10.33

=== Bugs summary ===
==== Summary of Unfixed Issues ====
74 bugs unfixed

* Critical - 1
* High - 15
* Medium -22
* Low - 7
* Undecided - 29

See section titled "<nowiki>[[#UnfixedIssues|Details of Unfixed Issues]]</nowiki>" below.

==== Summary of Fixed Issues ====
3 bugs fixed

* Critical - 1
* High - 1
* Undecided - 1

=== Summary of test failures ===
==== Kubuntu Desktop amd64 - Install (auto-resize) ====
* LP: Bug:628864 - "Guided" install does no guiding and wipes out existing install without warning - Triaged - Critical
* LP: Bug:628897 - Auto resize install option missing for KDE ubiquity - New - High
Tester's comment: 
==== Kubuntu Desktop amd64 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:580918 - video error - Confirmed - Undecided
Tester's comment: Case ID dls-001 dls-002: is OK, but there is a problem.

Case ID dls-003: is KO, becouse do not start the persistent live session.
==== Kubuntu Desktop i386 - Install (auto-resize) ====
* LP: Bug:628864 - "Guided" install does no guiding and wipes out existing install without warning - Triaged - Critical
* LP: Bug:628897 - Auto resize install option missing for KDE ubiquity - New - High
Tester's comment: Using for both guided and auto resize since the test case for guided is missing.

Guided passes with 628864.  IMO this should be a release blocker, but up to Riddell to decide.

Autoresize fails since it&#039;s missing.  That&#039;s 628897.
==== Ubuntu Alternate amd64 - Install (entire disk) ====
* LP: Bug:627495 - kernel BUG at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.35/drivers/md/dm.c:2190! - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: Kernel panics, major issues trying to install. Seems to be related to Intel ICH10R southbridge with chipset based RAID.
==== Ubuntu Desktop amd64 - Install (OEM setup) ====
* LP: Bug:627672 - [Maverick Beta] install from USB stuck retrieving files 2/6 Hp Mini - Fix Released - High
* LP: Bug:628290 - OEM installation, missing "Prepare for shipping to end user" icon - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:626299 - During install reports size of new partition as 0.0 B - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:627623 - text in installer slideshow overruns edge of panel - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Desktop amd64 - Migration Assistant ====
* LP: Bug:628955 - migration-assistant fails to recognise 32 bit Win XP - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627623 - text in installer slideshow overruns edge of panel - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628087 - Maverick ubiquity lacks option to change computer name - Confirmed - Low
Tester's comment: I have a 32 bit Win XP install and although the installer recognises it the option to migrate settings is not give. We are also not given the option to name the host PC and the slideshow does not fit within the box.
==== Ubuntu Desktop amd64 - Wubi (Windows installer) ====
* LP: Bug:600578 - Installer drops into grub shell after rebooting from Windows - Fix Released - Critical
Tester's comment: wdi-001, once wubi has installed from CD and PC rebooted I select the Ubuntu option on the Grub menu and it then exits to the a grub prompt, grub&gt;
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Install (auto-resize) ====
* LP: Bug:627672 - [Maverick Beta] install from USB stuck retrieving files 2/6 Hp Mini - Fix Released - High
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Install (auto-resize) ====
* LP: Bug:626299 - During install reports size of new partition as 0.0 B - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: While I was able to install successfully I just can&#039;t give this a pass due to the confusing options offered in the new ubiquity. Please see post #4 in bug #626299. Sorry :^(
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Install (entire disk) ====
* LP: Bug:626299 - During install reports size of new partition as 0.0 B - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: While I was able to install successfully I just can&#039;t give this a pass due to the confusing options offered in the new ubiquity. Please see post #4 in bug #626299. Sorry :^(
==== Ubuntu Netbook armel+dove - Install (entire disk) ====
* LP: Bug:628582 - ubiquity attempts to use x86-specific methods on port architectures. - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: Installation cannot proceed due to bug 628582.
==== Ubuntu Netbook Edition - Install (OEM setup) ====
* LP: Bug:628911 - Ubuntu Netbook OEM did not install oem-config - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Netbook Edition - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:614088 - unity should give an error to the user when not supported by the driver/graphic card - Triaged - Medium
Tester's comment: Like previous images, the interface fail to load with an NVIDIA and ends with just the default backgound image without any error message.
==== Ubuntu Netbook Edition - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:628727 - Screen corruption make UNE unusable - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628755 - Impossible to log in in Launchpad using apport-bug from a tty console - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Server amd64 - UEC install (minimal topology) ====
* LP: Bug:627963 - [maverick] Inconsistent certificates prevent CC to start correctly (no cc.log) - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628025 - Duplicate registration tries show up in registration.log - Confirmed - Low
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Server amd64 - UEC install (minimal topology) ====
* LP: Bug:627963 - [maverick] Inconsistent certificates prevent CC to start correctly (no cc.log) - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628025 - Duplicate registration tries show up in registration.log - Confirmed - Low
* LP: Bug:628291 - wrappers.conf is missing vgscan, seemgly new addtion to 2.0 - Fix Committed - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Server i386 - UEC install (minimal topology) ====
* LP: Bug:628055 - Instances don't start correctly: Security Labeling error running aa_change_profile() - New - High
* LP: Bug:628025 - Duplicate registration tries show up in registration.log - Confirmed - Low
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Studio Alternate i386 - Install (entire disk) ====
* LP: Bug:628981 - linux-headers-rt not installable breaks installation - Triaged - Medium
Tester's comment: 
==== Upgrade Ubuntu amd64 - Upgrade ====
* LP: Bug:628264 - update-initramfs fails due iscan - Invalid - Undecided
* LP: Bug:629162 - nVidia drivers in Maverick do not work due to ABI level - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: have to mark this failed due to 629162.  I had no working X after fixing 628264 (which was due to iscan).  The nVidia drivers for Maverick are downlevel and do not support the newer ABI, thus, you get no graphics at all after upgrading Lucid -&gt; Maverick.
==== Upgrade Ubuntu i386 - Upgrade ====
* LP: Bug:628349 - Wubi upgrade to maverick beta fails to boot - Invalid - Undecided
* LP: Bug:610898 - "No such device" - grub-pc update renders computer unbootable - Confirmed - Undecided
Tester's comment: Upgrade failed using wubi. 

1. It installed grub to my MBR due to user error. Computer wouldn&#039;t boot windows or Ubuntu. Repairing bootloader makes computer bootable.

2. Wubi still fails to boot.

Error: unknown command: loadfont

Error: unknown command: gfxterm

...

Error: file not found

Reboots

1. Installed wubi 10.04.1 on drive E: (fat32) with a 5GB install.

2. Ran updates

3. Checked for more updates - none

4. Ran &#039;update-manager -d -c&#039;

5. Update manager showed &quot;New Ubuntu release &#039;10.10&#039; is available&quot;

6. Click on Upgrade

7. Showed Release notes &quot;This is a ALPHA release. Do not install it on production machines&quot;

8. Clicked on upgrade

prompted to download 510MB of data etc. clicked to proceed

Getting new packages - 1053 files downloaded.

9. Installed grub bootloader:

=============================  ==

Eventually a screen popped up:

Title: Debconf on ubuntu

Banner: Configuring grub-pc

Checkbox: Continue without installing GRUB?

Button: Help

I clicked on Help:

You chose not to install GRUB to any devices. If you continue the boot loader may not be properly configured and when your computer next starts up it will use whatever was previously in the boot sector. If there is an earlier version of GRUB 2 in the boot sector, it may be unable to load modules or handle the current configuration file.

If you are already running a different boot loader and want to carry on doing so, or if this is a special environment where you do not need a boot loader, then you should continue anyway. Otherwise you should install GRUB somewhere.

Button: Close

I clicked Forward

it presented three options

/dev/sda (78518MB, ST98823AS)

/dev/sdb (100256 MB, OneTouch_II)

/dev/loop0 (1472MB, ???

Since I don&#039;t know what a boot loader or boot sector is,  so I selected /dev/sda (my internal drive) and hit forward. Now my computer won&#039;t boot. No such device.

Bootinfoscript reports: Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in partition #256 for /boot/grub

10. Repaired drive MBR

======================  ==

Reinstalled correct bootloader

11. Rebooted

============  ==

Wubi install will not boot due to unknown commands and file not found.
==== Upgrade Wubi amd64 - Upgrade ====
* LP: Bug:628287 - 10.04 -> 10.10: Untranslated strings in 'Remove obsolete packages' dialog - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:628186 - Enable to select "Upgrade" to latest release with the keyboard - New - Medium
Tester's comment: Unable to boot after the upgrade.
==== Xubuntu Desktop i386 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:529800 - xfce4-panel crashed with SIGSEGV in SmcRequestSaveYourself() - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:586012 - [Maverick] XFCE system tray became unusable after libgtk upgrade - Triaged - High
Tester's comment: The system is very buggy and slow, fix it soon

=== Details of Unfixed Issues ===

==== Critical ====
* LP: Bug:628864 - "Guided" install does no guiding and wipes out existing install without warning - Triaged - Critical

==== High ====
* LP: Bug:628897 - Auto resize install option missing for KDE ubiquity - New - High
* LP: Bug:628400 - [regression] boot degraded question never posed - New - High
* LP: Bug:628055 - Instances don't start correctly: Security Labeling error running aa_change_profile() - New - High
* LP: Bug:627623 - text in installer slideshow overruns edge of panel - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628029 - [maverick] panda ES1.0 does not suspend on beta image - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628217 - No audio output from analog ports on panda (omap4) - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:627902 - The list of available networks is blank - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:626299 - During install reports size of new partition as 0.0 B - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628582 - ubiquity attempts to use x86-specific methods on port architectures. - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:627963 - [maverick] Inconsistent certificates prevent CC to start correctly (no cc.log) - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:613083 - user-data is corrupted inside metadata service - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:606373 - cloud-init output does not get to console when booted with pv-grub and ramdisk - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:628418 - default timeout is too low, impossible to escape in a VM - Triaged - High
* LP: Bug:586012 - [Maverick] XFCE system tray became unusable after libgtk upgrade - Triaged - High

==== Medium ====
* LP: Bug:613022 - ssh daemon hangs after publickey packet sent - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:628577 - connection fails: ssh_exchange_identification - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:628186 - Enable to select "Upgrade" to latest release with the keyboard - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:613034 - Xubuntu splash screen is showing Ubuntu 10.10 - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:628311 - during downloading files impossible to skip - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:627656 - ubiquity can be minimized when not in live mode - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:613612 - Favorites missing from netbook-launcher-efl - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:628204 - go-home-applet not accessable on armel images - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:589204 - Evolution Setup Assistant dialog too large for netbook screens - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:621445 - rhythmbox crashed with SIGSEGV in g_closure_invoke() - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:613041 - Xubuntu docs are out of date - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:628221 - Partitioner shows Xubuntu as "Ubuntu Maverick" - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:539027 - end_request: I/O error rebooting at end of install - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:529800 - xfce4-panel crashed with SIGSEGV in SmcRequestSaveYourself() - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:628906 - ubiquity-kde manual partition very painful - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:605831 - Resolution should be taken from /proc/cmdline if provided - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:614088 - unity should give an error to the user when not supported by the driver/graphic card - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:621951 - udevd-work[674]: kernel-provided name 'dm-5' and NAME= 'mapper/main-server1a--lu cid-cow' disagree, please use SYMLINK+= or change the kernel to provide the prop er name  - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:621175 - -virtual kernel contains too many modules - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:628981 - linux-headers-rt not installable breaks installation - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:628287 - 10.04 -> 10.10: Untranslated strings in 'Remove obsolete packages' dialog - Triaged - Medium

==== Low ====
* LP: Bug:628087 - Maverick ubiquity lacks option to change computer name - Confirmed - Low
* LP: Bug:628025 - Duplicate registration tries show up in registration.log - Confirmed - Low
* LP: Bug:628304 - [master] software-center crashed with DatabaseModifiedError in _database_gen_postlist_iter() - Confirmed - Low
* LP: Bug:570950 - ud-multipart-01 test failed on included files - Triaged - Low
* LP: Bug:628157 - 10.04 -> 10.10: Untranslated string: Upgrading Ubuntu to version 10.10 - Triaged - Low
* LP: Bug:628350 - software-center requires authentication twice to install application - Triaged - Low

==== Undecided ====
* LP: Bug:628808 - maverick try/install kubuntu graphics are cut off - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627822 - bcmwl driver not installed during install even when selected - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627815 - unable to save userplaces.xbel - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628930 - Desktop effects not active by default - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628894 - Manual partition problem alert when there isn't an actual problem - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628815 - Cannot resize from kubuntu partitioner - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628964 - kubuntu maverick "Installation Complete" message shows "${RELEASE}" rather than release name - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628531 - cupsd crashed with SIGSEGV - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628575 - ksplashx assert failure: *** glibc detected *** ksplashx: double free or corruption (out): 0x0143e198 *** - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628581 - ubiquity crashed with SIGSEGV - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627495 - kernel BUG at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.35/drivers/md/dm.c:2190! - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627596 - zeitgeist-daemon crashed with ValueError in <module>() - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627609 - update-apt-xapian-index crashed with ValueError in <module>() - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:627716 - ubuntuone-syncdaemon crashed with ValueError in <module>() - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628290 - OEM installation, missing "Prepare for shipping to end user" icon - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628955 - migration-assistant fails to recognise 32 bit Win XP - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628911 - Ubuntu Netbook OEM did not install oem-config - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628727 - Screen corruption make UNE unusable - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628755 - Impossible to log in in Launchpad using apport-bug from a tty console - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:566818 - [Lucid] cryptsetup passphrase prompt during boot: every character typed repeats the prompt - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628374 - partman does not detect swap on a raid device - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:629162 - nVidia drivers in Maverick do not work due to ABI level - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613054 - xfce4-mixer muted on login - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628128 - Jockey doesn't show ati proprietary driver as available to install - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:580918 - video error - Confirmed - Undecided
* LP: Bug:610898 - "No such device" - grub-pc update renders computer unbootable - Confirmed - Undecided
* LP: Bug:628570 - package kdelibs5-dbg (not installed) failed to install/upgrade: short read on buffer copy for backend dpkg-deb during `./usr/lib/debug/usr/lib/libkatepartinterfaces.so.4.5.0' - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613796 - ndiswrapper can scan for SSIDs but cannot connect on any kernel newer than 2.6.34-5.14 - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:588725 - instance had no console output - Incomplete - Undecided

=== Details of Fixed Issues ===

==== Critical ====
* LP: Bug:600578 - Installer drops into grub shell after rebooting from Windows - Fix Released - Critical

==== High ====
* LP: Bug:627672 - [Maverick Beta] install from USB stuck retrieving files 2/6 Hp Mini - Fix Released - High

==== Undecided ====
* LP: Bug:628291 - wrappers.conf is missing vgscan, seemgly new addtion to 2.0 - Fix Committed - Undecided

=== Test Coverage Details by Category ===

* Edubuntu DVD amd64: 2/2
* Edubuntu DVD i386: 2/2
* Kubuntu Alternate amd64: 4/4
* Kubuntu Alternate i386: 4/4
* Kubuntu Desktop amd64: 6/6
* Kubuntu Desktop i386: 6/6
* Kubuntu DVD amd64: 4/4
* Kubuntu DVD i386: 4/4
* Kubuntu Mobile i386: 0/0
* Kubuntu Netbook Arm (omap): 1/1
* Mythbuntu Desktop amd64: 3/3
* Mythbuntu Desktop i386: 3/3
* Netboot amd64: 4/4
* Netboot arm dove: 0/1
* Netboot arm omap: 0/0
* Netboot i386: 4/4
* Ubuntu Alternate amd64: 6/6
* Ubuntu Alternate i386: 6/6
* Ubuntu ARM Preinstalled omap3: 1/1
* Ubuntu ARM Preinstalled omap4: 1/1
* Ubuntu Desktop amd64: 8/8
* Ubuntu Desktop i386: 7/8
* Ubuntu DVD amd64: 4/4
* Ubuntu DVD i386: 4/4
* Ubuntu Netbook armel+dove: 2/2
* Ubuntu Netbook Edition: 3/3
* Ubuntu Server amd64: 17/17
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Asia-Pacific) amd64: 0/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Asia-Pacific) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Europe) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Europe) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-East) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-East) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-West) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-West) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Asia-Pacific) amd64: 0/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Asia-Pacific) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Europe) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Europe) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-East) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-East) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-West) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-West) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server i386: 17/17
* Ubuntu Server UEC amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server UEC i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Studio Alternate amd64: 3/3
* Ubuntu Studio Alternate i386: 3/3
* Upgrade Edubuntu amd64: 0/1
* Upgrade Edubuntu i386: 0/1
* Upgrade Kubuntu amd64: 0/1
* Upgrade Kubuntu i386: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu i386: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu Server amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu Server i386: 1/1
* Upgrade Wubi amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Wubi i386: 1/1
* Upgrade Xubuntu amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Xubuntu i386: 0/1
* Xubuntu Alternate amd64: 3/3
* Xubuntu Alternate i386: 3/3
* Xubuntu Desktop amd64: 4/5
* Xubuntu Desktop i386: 4/5
