{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:smoketesting
* '''Created''': 2008-12-04
* '''Contributors''': davmor2, heno

=== Summary ===

Start a routine of regular smoke-testing from debian import freeze to release to catch problems early.

=== Rationale ===

The Current Plan: <<BR>>
We do a batch of automated testing and some manual testing before each milestone.<<BR>>
The problem with this is it leaves little or no time for QA Team/Developers to track issues and resolve them.

1. It's important that all the Canonical supported apps function correctly if they don't it looks bad on us and the developers.<<BR>>
2. It's important that these issues are dealt with before release where possible.

=== Use Cases ===

End user starts up their machine installs Ubuntu and x app fails to start.<<BR>>
End user installs Ubuntu and it doesn't work with their gfx card.<<BR>>
End user goes to check email / web page but can't connect to the web.

=== Assumptions ===

You have a spare test machine or a vm on your regular machine you can keep up-to-date with the latest daily version of the development release of the desktop.

This goal can be achieved either by a fresh install each day or by simply upgrading using the update-manager/sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade.

=== Design ===

The best time to start I believe would be after Debian Import Freeze.

Reasoning: <<BR>>
1. All major importing from debian should of finished at this point.<<BR>>
2. Only major upgrades should be imported after this date all of which we should know about from UDS/team meetings.<<BR>>
3. It give us and the developers the maximum amount of time to test, locate and repair issues.

Testing 1 app per day doesn't take that long on the whole and will cover all the apps in time for the next milestone release.

=== Implementation ===

To achieve this goal I believe the easiest way is for everyone in the QA team to test just 1 application a day (maybe 2 depending on just how many people do this).  This is a full test of everything in the app so we know that all the functions work correctly.  In most cases this will take a few minutes but on the whole the more complex apps will only take about an hour.

==== UI Changes ====

There should be some way to sign up to this process and also a way in which to track who is testing what so tests don't overlap.<<BR>>
Temporarily this could be done via the wiki but it would be good if this could be integrated into the test tracker further down the line.<<BR>>
Also a wiki page for developer to track the bugs we locate.

==== Code Changes ====

A tag in LP or a single wiki page that lists the bugs located during the testing process that the developers can look at for fixing issues.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
