{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


When installing a new iso, you can hit a bug during the actual install. This table is to give guidance on what best to report such a bug at.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Problem'''
| '''Report against'''
|-
| During the graphical installation itself
| ubuntu-bug ubiquity
|-
| During the alternate installation itself
| ubuntu-bug debian-installer
|-
| During the mini-iso / netboot installation istself
| ubuntu-bug debian-installer
|-
| While booting the ISO image
| ubuntu-bug syslinux
|-
| While booting the system after installaton
| ubuntu-bug grub2
|-
| With the graphical display after installation
| ubuntu-bug xorg
|-
| With an application
| ubuntu-bug PACKAGE_NAME
|}

If you are unsure of the application, or for further information, please have a read of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage | Finding the Right Package]]</nowiki>

* Sometimes the machine with the bug has no internet access, in this case:

ubuntu-bug is a wrapper around apport-cli and apport-cli has an option for saving the report for later.  The documentation says:

'''--save=PATH'''   In bug filing mode, save the collected information into a file instead of reporting it. This file can then be reported later on from a different machine.

Saving the bug report to a file can be useful when the machine you are testing on does not have internet access.  After saving the file and moving it to a system with internet access you can use 'apport-cli
my.crash' (where my.crash is the saved crash file) to send the report to Launchpad.
