{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by pedro_ at 19:00 ==
 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> Hello everybody and welcome to our weekly meeting!

 <''''''> Ah, winter time!

 <''''''> hello everybody

 <''''''> As usual agenda for today can be found here:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Agenda

=== Agenda ===
 <''''''> # review previous action items (all)

 <''''''> # Bugday -- pedro_

 <''''''> # UDS Feedback -- all

 <''''''> # Selection of new chair -- pedro_

 <''''''> i don't see the SRU report there, is that ok jibel ?

 <''''''> no that's not ok

 <''''''> ok let's fix that then ;-)

 <''''''> there IS an sru report today, as usual

 <''''''> thanks jibel

 <''''''> ok let's go for the first item and then jibel can give us the SRU report

 <''''''> [TOPIC] review previous action items

=== review previous action items ===
 <''''''> according to the log : https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings/20101103

 <''''''> there's only 1 action item for this meeting

 <''''''> which is: pedro_ to reset Google calendar for QA meetings

 <''''''> and that's already done

* '''''' raises hand

 <''''''> but looks like Google calendar went crazy

 <''''''> and it's showing all the meetings 1 hour later

* '''''' lowers hand again

 <''''''> is that due to the DST ?

 <''''''> charlie-tca, go ahead please :-)

 <''''''> you said it already

 <''''''> ah ok, so i guess we need to adjust the calendar again?

 <''''''> or wait to see if it fixes itself soon

 <''''''> ok let's wait till the end of the week otherwise i'll contact the fridge folks again

 <''''''> [TOPIC] SRU Testing

=== SRU Testing ===
 <''''''> jibel, the stage is all yours

 <''''''> Hello all

 <''''''> Over the past weeks 68 packages have been published to stable releases

 <''''''> The list is available at

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/SRUReports/2010-11-10

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/SRUReports/2010-11-10''
|}

 <''''''> * A total of 37 packages have been published to maverick

 <''''''>   * 9 packages published to maverick-updates: chromium-browser, gdb, hplip, kde4libs, linux-linaro, linux-meta-linaro, linux-ti-omap4, system-config-printer, sysvinit

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to maverick-security: cups, flashplugin-nonfree, freetype, pidgin

 <''''''>   * 24 packages published to maverick-proposed: apparmor, apport, armel-cross-toolchain-base, bzr-builddeb, cairo, chromium-browser, eclipse-cdt, eglibc, evolution, gnome-keyring, humanity-icon-theme,  light-themes, linux, linux-ti-omap4, nautilus, nautilus-share, openldap, pianobar, plymouth, rhythmbox, software-center, vino, x-loader, xserver-xorg-video-intel

 <''''''> * A total of 16 packages have been published to lucid

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to lucid-updates: chromium-browser, docky, redhat-cluster, udev

 <''''''>   * 5 packages published to lucid-security: cups, flashplugin-nonfree, freetype, libvirt, pidgin

 <''''''>   * 7 packages published to lucid-proposed: chromium-browser, debian-installer, dnspython, evolution, glusterfs, linux-meta, plymouth

 <''''''> * A total of 9 packages have been published to karmic

 <''''''>   * 3 packages published to karmic-updates: linux, linux-mvl-dove, xserver-xorg-video-intel

 <''''''>   * 4 packages published to karmic-security: cups, flashplugin-nonfree, freetype, pidgin

 <''''''>   * 2 packages published to karmic-proposed: mesa, tomboy

 <''''''> * 4 packages published to hardy-security: cupsys, flashplugin-nonfree, freetype, pidgin

 <''''''> * 2 packages published to dapper-security: cupsys, freetype

 <''''''> Thanks to Evan Broder (ebroder), DLCBurggraaff, Claudio Veschetti, D Tangman, dicairo, eballetbo, Gary M (game2), Irihapeti, John Rigby, Daniel Kulesz, Louis-Dominique Dubeau, Torez Smith, Martijn, mypc, NTolerance, Riccardo Murri, Rohan Garg (evilshadeslayer), madbiologist, Sebastien JAN (sebjan), Scott Howard (showard), The Loeki and Wolfgang Kufner for testing packages in -proposed.

 <''''''> As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!

 <''''''> indeed thanks a lot to all the contributors :-)

 <''''''> any comment/question ?

 <''''''> any questions for jibel?

 <''''''> heh

 <''''''> ok then, one more thing.

 <''''''> Last week we talked about adding update testing as opportunities in Harvest.

 <''''''> Its done, congrats to bdmurray !

 <''''''> awesome news!

* '''''' waves

 <''''''> thanks bdmurray!

 <''''''> To see it live, go to http://harvest.ubuntu.com/opportunities/, in the opportunities list on the left, you'll find update-testing-RELEASE

 <''''''> Checking these items will display the current SRUs (uncheck the limit on packages)

 <''''''> nice nice :-)

 <''''''> anything else jibel ?

 <''''''> no, that's all for today

 <''''''> jibel, ok, thank you!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Bugdays

=== Bugdays ===
 <''''''> ok long time without having a bug day

 <''''''> for tomorrow we organized one for the Bugs without a package: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20101111

 <''''''> as you can see there, the vast majority of the bugs were already triaged!

 <''''''> so we might need to add some more bugs to that list ;-)

 <''''''> heh, awesome

 <''''''> thanks to our rocking contributors : komputes, kamus, mistrynitesh and yofel for their amazing work

 <''''''> Great!

 <''''''> pedro_: and the bugday didn't even start yet ;)

 <''''''> let's add another 100 for tomorrow :-)

 <''''''> pedro_: lets

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> komputes, that makes you even more amazing :-)

 <''''''> hehe

 <''''''> pedro_, don't be shy. add the remaining 513 bugs without a package and see how low we can go.

 <''''''> as always if you have an idea please add it to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/Planning

 <''''''> jibel, heh only if you help us too ;-)

 <''''''> ok lets roll

 <''''''> ok, I need some karma

* '''''' jibel, yes! we can do it :)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS Feedback

=== UDS Feedback ===
 <''''''> i see that item also included on the previous meeting agenda

 <''''''> is there anything else to discuss or that was added/leaved there for mistake?

 <''''''> marjo, ^

 <''''''> I think pedro_ wasn't here to discuss his stuff, maybe?

 <''''''> pedro_ left there by mistake

 <''''''> charlie-tca, we discussed our items at the bugsquad meeting anyways

 <''''''> ok next item on the agenda is

 <''''''> [TOPIC] AOB

=== AOB ===
 <''''''> anything else to raise, discuss, announce, etc?

 <''''''> pedro: yes

 <''''''> please go ahead marjo

 <''''''> blueprints reminder: https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu?searchtext=qa-n

* '''''' pass the mic to marjo

 <''''''> please review and update the blueprints assigned to you, so we can finalize all blueprints by end of this week

 <''''''> thx

 <''''''> that's it from me, pedro_

 <''''''> thank you marjo

 <''''''> anything else guys?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> go for it jibel

 <''''''> with DST this meeting time is not really convenient can we move it by 1 hour ?

 <''''''> in europe it 2000

 <''''''> or 8:00PM

 <''''''> eek...

 <''''''> ditto

 <''''''> same to ara then

 <''''''> so 1 hour backwards, 1800 UTC ?

 <''''''> same to all the community members in europe

 <''''''> excepted UK.

 <''''''> 1800 UTC sounds good to everybody ?

 <''''''> lets vote

 <''''''> jibel: we chose 1700 and 1900 a few months ago, so that we can accommodate as many time zones as possible (independent of DST)

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> wait wait wait

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> wait

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> [VOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion: ''
|}
* '''''' waits

 <''''''> now you can vote

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> Keep in mind, every other week we meet two hours earlier

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> folks: please see my note above!

 <''''''> jibel: we chose 1700 and 1900 a few months ago, so that we can accommodate as many time zones as possible (independent of DST)

 <''''''> hum

 <''''''> remember?!

 <''''''> but is not good now since the application of DST

 <''''''> perhaps 1600 and 1800?

 <''''''> That seems wrong. Wasn't 20:00 UTC the most popular hour?

 <''''''> marjo, yes, I remember.

 <''''''> charlie-tca: the compromise we reached was to flip every other week

 <''''''> that's how we ended up with these two times; do we want to reconsider based on jibel's request?

 <''''''> but this is going the wrong way, and when time changes again, we move them again?

 <''''''> charlie-tca: yes, we would have to flip at every DT/non-DT change

 <''''''> that's the beauty of UTC!

 <''''''> and the bane...

 <''''''> so what would be?

 <''''''> yeah. that puts me at 8 am for the earlier meeting.

 <''''''> bdmurray: what about you?

 <''''''> charlie and I are in the same tz

 <''''''> can we defer vote until next week (to include ara in discussion)?

 <''''''> yes.

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> pedro_: voting is still open

 <''''''> pedro_ thx much

 <''''''> [ENDVOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 5 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 5
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
 <''''''> [ACTION] Discuss meeting times

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Discuss meeting times''
|}

 <''''''> so we don't forget about it

 <''''''> anything else?

 <''''''> Might be good to see what else we are conflicting with moving these meetings

 <''''''> 3

 <''''''> yup, lets review it and share it next week

 <''''''> ok if there is nothing else:

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Selection of new chair

=== Selection of new chair ===
 <''''''> any volunteer ?

* '''''' hides

 <''''''> pedro: i've updated the next meeting agenda for that topic and assigned it to jibel

 <''''''> thank you marjo

 <''''''> oh, jibel is the volunteer?

 <''''''> didn't i heard jibel?

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Meetings

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> \o/

 <''''''> [ACTION] jibel to chair next meeting

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' jibel to chair next meeting''
|}

 <''''''> is that all, I was expecting a general ovation ;-)

 <''''''> last call, anything else to raise, discuss, etc?

 <''''''> I did ;-)

 <''''''> 3

 <''''''> 2

 <''''''> 1

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 19:36 ==
=== People Present ===
* kamusin

* pedro_

* sense

* jibel

* charlie-tca

* bdmurray

* komputes

* marjo

* mainerror

* hggdh

=== Actions Recorded ===
* Discuss meeting times

* jibel to chair next meeting
