{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:qa-website-feedback

=== Summary ===

The Ubuntu QA website will have one more module which will be about creating a short-term feedback form (for example to test compiz, openoffice or the latest bugfixes).

=== Release Note ===

Short term testing requests now have their own module on the QA website instead of using the Wiki.

=== Rationale ===

We are currently using the wiki for short term testing/feedback request but it's far from perfect especially if we have more than 10 responses.
The Feedback module of the QA website will solve that as every user will be able to post his result and then access a general result page showing statistics from all the results.

=== Use Cases ===

* Michael is working on a new upstream Compiz fixing tons of bugs, he wants global feedback from users about what works and what doesn't, he goes to the website and create a new feedback request and some testcases/questions.
* David is a Compiz user, he sees Michael's feedback request URL on a mailing-list post, then go to the QA website and gives his results and opinion about the new Compiz.
* John is just a visitor of the QA website, he sees that there is a compiz feedback request running, he can sees the current result (number of participants, number of pass/fail, comments)

=== Design ===

Creating a new module for the QA Website making the creation of feedback request as easy as possible in order to replace our current wiki pages.

=== Implementation ===

The module doesn't currently exist so everything is to do.
This module will be running as private testing at the beginning (as we did for Tokamak), then become public (on feedback.qa.ubuntu.com).

==== UI ====

* Create an Admin UI making easy to create custom forms (title, description, pass/fail, comment field, eventually drop-down menu)
* feedback.qa.ubuntu.com will let users (without Admin rights) to create their own feedback request

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

A test website will be running somewhere on .stgraber.org as soon as the main website will have been moved to qa.ubuntu.com

=== Outstanding Issues ===

----
CategorySpec
