{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Maverick Alpha 3 Test Report - 6th August 2010 ==

=== Summary ===

==== Test Coverage ====
* Image Coverage: 100%
* Mandatory Testcase Coverage: 166/185 = 89.73
* Optional Testcase Coverage: 19/40 = 47.50

==== Test Failure Analysis ====
* 22 Test Failures
* Failure Rate 22/185 = 11.89

=== Bugs summary ===
==== Summary of Unfixed Issues ====
49 bugs unfixed

* High - 10
* Medium - 8
* Undecided - 31

See section titled "<nowiki>[[#UnfixedIssues|Details of Unfixed Issues]]</nowiki>" below.

==== Summary of Fixed Issues ====
1 bug fixed

* Low - 1

=== Summary of test failures ===
==== Kubuntu Alternate amd64 - Install (auto-resize) ====
* LP: Bug:151515 - missing resize option - Invalid - Medium
* LP: Bug:613550 - Input for http proxy was not presented  - New - Undecided 
Tester's comment: Comments:

Action-7: Guided Re-Size was not presented an option for installation. Install defaulted to Whole Drive Install. Thus, Action-8, 9 & 10 were not displayed or acted upon. It appears that bug 151515 covers this problem.

Action-16: I was not presented with the option to add http proxy. New Bug Reported: 613550.

Action-18: Before this step I was asked to Install Grub, which is not indicated on the action list. In order to proceed, I had to accept installing Grub, which is reasonable.

General Comments: Action-17. I did not see the slow down at 6%. The install went very quickly throughout.

New: 613550: No http proxy option

Existing Bug: 151515 No Resize Option

Overall the install went smooth accept where noted.

==== Kubuntu Alternate amd64 - Install (entire disk) ====
* LP: Bug:613582 - Log-In After Install Fails Maverick KUB-ALT-AMD64 - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613550 - Input for http proxy was not presented  - New - Undecided 
Tester's comment: Action-16: "Input http proxy" Same Bug 615330

Action-17: "Install System" Configure grub-pc step missing form test document.

New Bug Submitted: 613582

Action-20: "Long-In after Install" Failed: New Bug: First Time I installed with this method, I was able to log in.

.
==== Kubuntu Desktop amd64 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:580918 - video error - Incomplete - Undecided
Tester's comment: Case ID: dls 001 is OK, but there is the problem  described in bug.

Case ID: dls 002 is KO, don't shut down, there is the problem  described in bug.

Case ID: dls 003 is KO, don't start a persistent session, there is the problem  described in bug.
==== Kubuntu Desktop amd64 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:580918 - video error - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613453 - [ISO TESTING] Live session KDM bugs kubuntu Mavrick  - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Kubuntu Desktop i386 - Wubi (Windows installer) ====
* LP: Bug:613288 - wubi installation failed - boot configuration store could not be opened - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: Installation failed with message "boot configuration data store could not be opened"
==== Kubuntu Desktop i386 - Wubi (Windows installer) ====
* LP: Bug:600578 - installer drops into grub shell after rebooting from windows. - Incomplete - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Kubuntu DVD amd64 - Install (debian-installer) ====
* LP: Bug:613697 - Maverick Kubuntu amd64 DVD d-i install can't find installable kernel - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: d-i did not find any kernels. installation could not proceed.
==== Kubuntu DVD amd64 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:613453 - [ISO TESTING] Live session KDM bugs kubuntu Mavrick  - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: tested on virtualbox OSE 3.2 Swiss/French, no installer on desktop and hang on at shutdown on 'casper is resyncing..'
==== Ubuntu ARM Preinstalled omap3 - Beagleboard ARM Image Testing ====
* LP: Bug:591941 - SDHC card not recognized - In Progress - High
* LP: Bug:613855 - omap3 beagle XM MMC card always comes up readonly - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: I tested on a beagle XM and a beagle C4 board, on the XM bug 613855 blocks installation, on the C4 it is 591941
==== Ubuntu Desktop amd64 - Install (auto-resize) ====
* LP: Bug:613071 - maverick ubiquity crashed when attempting a side-by-side install - Invalid - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Desktop amd64 - Install (manual partitioning) ====
* LP: Bug:613680 - When hitting continue testing option the Live Session logs out - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613685 - When selecting to not install bootloader on MBR I end up with no boot loader - Incomplete - Undecided
Tester's comment: I marked neither of these bugs serious because anyone using these options probably can deal with them.

The first ISO did not have these problems though and they are not something that the user should have to deal with.

Users with little experience would be screwed with the second one.

Selected to not install grub on sda and ended up with no grub on MBR.
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Install (OEM setup) ====
* LP: Bug:613008 - failed to install oem-config from CD - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:608382 - Maverick images build on lucid fail to boot - different syslinux version - Triaged - High
Tester's comment: syslinux wrong config

workaround with typing help on console.

other Tests passed.
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:608382 - Maverick images build on lucid fail to boot - different syslinux version - Triaged - High
* LP: Bug:613276 - usb-creator doesn't copy files to usb drive unless it's opened with root privileges - Incomplete - Undecided
Tester's comment: Couple bugs in usb-creator.
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Migration Assistant ====
* LP: Bug:613629 - Migration Assistant doesn't migrate anything on Maverick pre-A3 - New - Undecided
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Desktop i386 - Wubi (Windows installer) ====
* LP: Bug:600578 - installer drops into grub shell after rebooting from windows. - Incomplete - Undecided
Tester's comment: Fails to get to the ubiquity install part.
==== Ubuntu Netbook Edition - Install (OEM setup) ====
* LP: Bug:613135 - Can't install fglrx on UNE 10.10 Alpha3 RC ISO - Invalid - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613694 - OSS driver does not work on UNE Live CD with my ATI card at all - Confirmed - Undecided
Tester's comment: Can't, even with xorg.edgers ppa drivers, get anything but a white screen.
==== Ubuntu Netbook Edition - Install (OEM setup) ====
* LP: Bug:613008 - failed to install oem-config from CD - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Netbook Edition - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:613135 - Can't install fglrx on UNE 10.10 Alpha3 RC ISO - Invalid - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613694 - OSS driver does not work on UNE Live CD with my ATI card at all - Confirmed - Undecided
Tester's comment: Desktop unusable with out something other than the default driver.

Fglrx uninstallable.
==== Ubuntu Server amd64 - UEC install (minimal topology) ====
* LP: Bug:609112 - [maverick] Registration unreliable - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:613463 - [10.10 - Alpha 3 (candidate)] Prompts misleading grub dialogs during UEC Node installation. - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: 
==== Ubuntu Server i386 - UEC install (minimal topology) ====
* LP: Bug:613514 - maverick i386 UEC: Instance does not start - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:613463 - [10.10 - Alpha 3 (candidate)] Prompts misleading grub dialogs during UEC Node installation. - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: Lucky with registration the first time. Not so lucky with instance run.
==== Xubuntu Desktop i386 - Live Session ====
* LP: Bug:539878 - nouveau out of sync LVDS (basically card not supported) - Confirmed - High
Tester's comment: Hardware test; 2.2 GHz C2D; 2GB RAM; NVidia 8400M GS

* Nouveau renders screen unusable. User needs to manually add nouveau.blacklist=true to boot-options to get basic working desktop.
==== Xubuntu Desktop i386 - Wubi (Windows installer) ====
* LP: Bug:600578 - installer drops into grub shell after rebooting from windows. - Incomplete - Undecided
Tester's comment: 

=== Details of Unfixed Issues ===

==== High ====
* LP: Bug:613008 - failed to install oem-config from CD - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:589204 - Evolution Setup Assistant dialog too large for netbook screens - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:609112 - [maverick] Registration unreliable - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:613463 - [10.10 - Alpha 3 (candidate)] Prompts misleading grub dialogs during UEC Node installation. - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:606373 - cloud-init output does not get to console when booted with pv-grub and ramdisk - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:539878 - nouveau out of sync LVDS (basically card not supported) - Confirmed - High
* LP: Bug:608382 - Maverick images build on lucid fail to boot - different syslinux version - Triaged - High
* LP: Bug:591941 - SDHC card not recognized - In Progress - High
* LP: Bug:605739 - BUG: Bad page state in process swapper  pfn:94d23 - In Progress - High

==== Medium ====
* LP: Bug:608047 - ica crashed on login with SIGSEGV in gtk_container_add() - happens every login - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:613022 - ssh daemon hangs after publickey packet sent - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:613514 - maverick i386 UEC: Instance does not start - New - Medium
* LP: Bug:566818 - [Lucid] cryptsetup passphrase prompt during boot: every character typed repeats the prompt - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:613625 - ubiquity crashed with AttributeError in on_extra_combo_changed() - Confirmed - Medium
* LP: Bug:605831 - Resolution should be taken from /proc/cmdline if provided - Triaged - Medium
* LP: Bug:600359 - ureadahead generating oom messages during boot. - In Progress - Medium

==== Undecided ====
* LP: Bug:613582 - Log-In After Install Fails Maverick KUB-ALT-AMD64 - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613453 - [ISO TESTING] Live session KDM bugs kubuntu Mavrick  - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613636 - Kubuntu Maveric ISOs show purple "Ubuntu 10.10" boot splash instead of the blue Kubuntu one. - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613288 - wubi installation failed - boot configuration store could not be opened - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613697 - Maverick Kubuntu amd64 DVD d-i install can't find installable kernel - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613834 - DIfficult to find "Prepare for Shipping" applet in OEM install on Kubuntu Maverick - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613836 - After first reboot of Maverick, user is presented with a page telling user he/she must have an opendesktop.org account - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613839 - Maverick A3 Kubuntu 64bit OEM install is installing netbook instead of desktop - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613879 - Maverick A3 Kubuntu 64bit OEM install is installing netbook instead of desktop - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613606 - netbook-launcher-efl running as an app in gnome desktop, not as standalone desktop. - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613612 - Favorites missing from netbook-launcher-efl - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613866 - u-boot loaded from SD should look to SD for boot.scr instead of using nand settings. - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613855 - omap3 beagle XM MMC card always comes up readonly - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613591 - Jasper sometimes fails to resize root partition on omap4 - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:604501 - A second Maverick installation, in top of Windows/Maverick won't add a grub entry for self - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:614167 - After installing, Maverick doesn't prompt to remove the LiveUSB before rebooting. - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613629 - Migration Assistant doesn't migrate anything on Maverick pre-A3 - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613083 - user-data is corrupted inside metadata service - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613273 - kernel panic on ec2 in system_call_fastpath - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:590998 - update-apt-xapian-index crashed with DatabaseLockError in __init__() - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613034 - Xubuntu splash screen is showing Ubuntu 10.10 - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613041 - Xubuntu documentation needs to be updated from 9.10 to 10.10 - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613054 - xfce4-mixer muted on login - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:568643 - Missing jockey notification icon in xfce-panel in Xubuntu - New - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613694 - OSS driver does not work on UNE Live CD with my ATI card at all - Confirmed - Undecided
* LP: Bug:580918 - video error - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:600578 - installer drops into grub shell after rebooting from windows. - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613680 - When hitting continue testing option the Live Session logs out - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613685 - When selecting to not install bootloader on MBR I end up with no boot loader - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613276 - usb-creator doesn't copy files to usb drive unless it's opened with root privileges - Incomplete - Undecided
* LP: Bug:613550 - Input for http proxy was not presented  - New - Undecided 

=== Test Coverage Details by Category ===

* Edubuntu DVD amd64: 2/2
* Edubuntu DVD i386: 2/2
* Kubuntu Alternate amd64: 4/4
* Kubuntu Alternate i386: 4/4
* Kubuntu Desktop amd64: 5/6
* Kubuntu Desktop i386: 6/6
* Kubuntu DVD amd64: 4/4
* Kubuntu DVD i386: 4/4
* Netboot amd64: 4/4
* Netboot i386: 4/4
* Ubuntu Alternate amd64: 5/6
* Ubuntu Alternate i386: 5/6
* Ubuntu ARM Preinstalled omap3: 1/1
* Ubuntu ARM Preinstalled omap4: 1/1
* Ubuntu Desktop amd64: 6/8
* Ubuntu Desktop i386: 8/8
* Ubuntu DVD amd64: 3/4
* Ubuntu DVD i386: 2/4
* Ubuntu Netbook Edition: 3/3
* Ubuntu Server amd64: 16/17
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Asia-Pacific) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Asia-Pacific) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Europe) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (Europe) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-East) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-East) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-West) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 EBS (US-West) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Asia-Pacific) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Asia-Pacific) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Europe) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (Europe) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-East) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-East) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-West) amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server EC2 instance (US-West) i386: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server i386: 16/17
* Ubuntu Server UEC amd64: 2/2
* Ubuntu Server UEC i386: 1/2
* Ubuntu Studio Alternate amd64: 3/3
* Ubuntu Studio Alternate i386: 3/3
* Upgrade Edubuntu amd64: 0/1
* Upgrade Edubuntu i386: 0/1
* Upgrade Kubuntu amd64: 0/1
* Upgrade Kubuntu i386: 0/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu i386: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu Server amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Ubuntu Server i386: 1/1
* Upgrade Wubi amd64: 1/1
* Upgrade Wubi i386: 0/1
* Upgrade Xubuntu amd64: 0/1
* Upgrade Xubuntu i386: 0/1
* Xubuntu Alternate amd64: 3/3
* Xubuntu Alternate i386: 3/3
* Xubuntu Desktop amd64: 4/5
* Xubuntu Desktop i386: 5/5
