{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Summary ===

* SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
 	- Karmic: 40 new packages in -proposed and 46 packages pushed to -updates<<BR>>
	- Jaunty: 3 new packages in -proposed (clamav, kvm, landscape-client) and 4 packages pushed to -updates (isdnutils, kdepim, pm-utils, pythonmagick)<<BR>>
	- Intrepid: no package activity (except security updates)<<BR>>
	- Hardy: 2 new packages in -proposed (apache2, lilo-installer) and 1 package pushed to -updates (pidgin)<<BR>>
	- Dapper: no package activity (except security updates)<<BR>>
* Bugday highlights -- pedro (Pedro Villavicencio)
 	- Past week we had the Gwibber hug day https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20091105 <<BR>>
	- We managed to triage a lot of reports there 48 or so<<BR>>
	- Tomorrow we're having a bug day based on Nautilus https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20091112
* Testing Team Blueprint  -- ara (Ara Pulido)
	- We are working on creating a new Testing team with regular meetings, mailing list, roadmaps etc.<<BR>>
	- We are going to be discussing the topic in UDS Dallas, so if you are interested, please, subscribe to the blueprint https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team <<BR>>
	- Wiki Testing Team: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/TestingTeam <<BR>>
 
=== Logs ===

<pre>
[17:02] <ara> #startmeeting
[17:02] <MootBot> Meeting started at 11:02. The chair is ara.
[17:02] <MootBot> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
[17:03] <ara> Agenda:
[17:03] <ara> # SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[17:03] <ara> # Bugday highlights -- pedro
[17:03] <ara> # Testing Team blueprint
[17:03] <ara> [TOPIC] -  SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[17:03] <MootBot> New Topic:  -  SRU testing -- sbeattie (Steve Beattie)
[17:03] <ara> sbeattie is on holiday, but he asked me to pass his SRU report here
[17:04] <ara> he's very committed :-)
[17:04] <ara> Stable Release Update (SRU) Acivity for the past week (since 2009-11-04):
[17:04] <ara> * karmic: 40 new packages in -proposed and 46 packages pushed to -updates
[17:04] <ara> * jaunty: 3 new packages in -proposed (clamav, kvm, landscape-client) and 4 packages pushed to -updates (isdnutils, kdepim, pm-utils, pythonmagick)
[17:04] <ara> * intrepid: no package activity (except security updates)
[17:04] <ara> * hardy: 2 new packages in -proposed (apache2, lilo-installer) and 1 package pushed to -updates (pidgin)
[17:04] <ara> * dapper: no package activity (except security updates)
[17:05] <ara> Thanks to Simon Déziel, Id2ndR, madbiologist, Bernhard, Kenneth Pålsson, Charles Curley, Ariel Faigon, Francis Russell, mzc, Lemmiwinks, Brian O'Keefe, fabrice_sp, sigvdr, Psycona, Luca Ferretti, Roman Fiedler, squishlikeabug, nentis, Edward, Evan Broder, Imre Gergely, Alex Muntada, Anders Virving, Neil Messenbird , cochisebt, Andreas Wenning, Rod Davison, Christophe Sauthier, Nicolas Adenis-Lamarre, Stephen Laverty, Matti Hi
[17:05] <ara> ljanen, starslights, Matej Kenda, Mattias Holmlund, Paul Elliott, olive, YoBoY, prometheus, Peter Whittaker, Peter Lyons, Nathan Handler, Andrea Veria, Alessio Treglia, las, Tobias Kerzenmacher and others for testing SRUs this week.
[17:05] <ara> Lots of people!
[17:05] <pedro_> things are looking good there, as per http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html
[17:05] <ara> help would be appreciated with SRUs that have been sitting in the -proposed queue for a while (http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html lists the length of time a given package has been waiting).
[17:06] <pedro_> yeah, especially bug 444979 and bug 462626
[17:06] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: HTTP Error 503: Service Temporarily Unavailable (https://launchpad.net/bugs/444979)
[17:06] <ubottu> Error: Could not parse data returned by Launchpad: HTTP Error 503: Service Temporarily Unavailable (https://launchpad.net/bugs/462626)
[17:07] <pedro_> thanks for nothing ubottu
[17:07] <ara> nice, Launchpad :)
[17:08] <ara> OK, next topic
[17:08] <pedro_> well those are the oldest sru there, so might need a bit more of attention
[17:08] <ara> indeed
[17:08] <ara> one wonders where the original reporter is :)
[17:08] <ara> [TOPIC] Bugday highlights -- pedro
[17:08] <MootBot> New Topic:  Bugday highlights -- pedro
[17:08] <ara> pedro_ even
[17:09] <pedro_> right so past week we had the Gwibber hug day https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20091105
[17:09] <pedro_> not a lot of people contributed though, but we managed to triage a lot of reports there
[17:09] <ara> who is kamus?
[17:09] <pedro_> ~48 or so
[17:09] <ara> he/she did a great job there
[17:10] <pedro_> ah kamus is a bugsquad member, he's always rocking on the bug days
[17:10] <pedro_> yes big thank to him and to Adam
[17:10] <pedro_> and tomorrow we're having a bug day based on Nautilus https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20091112
[17:11] <pedro_> so any help is more than welcome
[17:12] <pedro_> that's all from here
[17:12] <ara> OK
[17:12] <ara> [TOPIC] Testing Team blueprint -- ara
[17:12] <MootBot> New Topic:  Testing Team blueprint -- ara
[17:12] <ara> OK, as you may now know, we want to improve the way we test in Ubuntu for Lucid
[17:13] <ara> We are working on creating a new Testing team with regular meetings, mailing list, roadmaps etc.
[17:13] <ara> We are going to be discussing the topic in UDS Dallas, so if you are interested, please, subscribe to the blueprint
[17:13] <ara> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/lucid-qa-testing-team
[17:14] <ara> also, in the Spec, under BoF agenda, you can add the items you think are worth discussing
[17:14] <ara> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Specs/TestingTeam
[17:14] <pedro_> is that blueprint/discussion already scheduled?
[17:15] <ara> yes, it is wednesday, in the latest slot of the day (IIRC)
[17:15] <pedro_> maybe people can attend to it remotely, IRC always help
[17:15] <pedro_> cool
=== YDdraigGoch is now known as Richie
[17:15] <ara> yes, of course, remote attendees are more than welcome
[17:16] <davmor2> not that late I don't think I will
[17:17] <ara> davmor2, :)
[17:17] <ara> OK, that's everything for me
[17:17] <ara> anything else?
[17:17] <davmor2> Nope
[17:18] <ara> any other topics?
[17:18] <davmor2> nope
[17:18] <pedro_> noup just a quick question
[17:19] <ara> pedro_, yes?
[17:19] <pedro_> regarding the uds schedule, do you know why the sessions don't appear on http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-l/track/qa/
[17:20] <pedro_> but they do on the daily ones
[17:20] <ara> pedro_, I think per track is broken in the summit site
[17:20] <ara> jono ? ^
[17:20] <pedro_> i'm a bit confuse about that
[17:21] <ara> I will ask jono again and will send an email about to ubuntu-qa
[17:22] <pedro_> ah might be that, not really important though just a little doubt
[17:22] <pedro_> ara, awesome, thank you
[17:22] <ara> OK, I think we can wrap up
[17:23] <ara> #endmeeting
[17:23] <MootBot> Meeting finished at 11:22.
</pre>
