{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/certify-web/+spec/qa-hardware-test-result-publication|qa-hardware-test-result-publication]]</nowiki>
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

We use the Canonical certification testing infrastructure to test hardware compatibility leading up a release, on stable release updates and to smoke test the installation images. For the machines that are already certified and available for purchase by the public we should publish the test results in a publicly viewable location.

=== Rationale ===

Test reports play an important part in the release process and SRU validation.

=== Use Cases ===

* The Ubuntu Release Team depends on testing data to determine release readiness 
* The SRU team requires information about regression testing on a wide range of hardware before releasing updates

=== Design ===

* Display results for milestone and update testing only, ''not'' commercial  certification testing.
* Only relevant for hardware hosted in Canonical test labs - compatibility results are excluded
* The pages should be clearly constructed so as to be clear that these are not certification results and are for the development of Ubuntu.

==== Current milestone report ====

* Table view sorted by system:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#D0D0D0">'''System name'''
| ''Date/Time'''
| '''Pass'''
| '''Fail'''
| '''Skip'''
| '''Bugs'''
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#68d056">Compu``Brand X5000
| 2009-01-19
| 11
| 0
| 2
| 
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#e88f8f">Compu``Brand X6000
| 2009-01-19
| 10 (-1)
| 1
| 2 (+1)
| #123456
|}

* The system name links to <code>http://webapps.ubuntu.com/certification/hardware/<system-ID></code>
* The date and time links to a detailed view of all test results on the certification website (restricted access)
* The +/- number shows a change from the previous milestone

==== Archive view ====

* Same view as above but showing results from previous milestones through the release cycle

==== Navigation ====

The following navigation panel should appear at the bottom of the page:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Releases:
| 9.04 '''8.10 8.04 7.10'''
|-
| Milestones:
| Alpha 5  Alpha 4  Alpha 3  Alpha 2  Alpha 1
|-
| <-2> '''Jump to latest report'''
|}

=== Implementation ===

* The certification website exports test data from non-private runs as XML or flat text
* Python code on the QA server parses this data to produce the reports served from <code>http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/</code>

----
CategorySpec
