{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==

=== SRU Updates ===
* http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
* A total of 40 packages have been published to maverick
* A total of 13 packages have been published to lucid
* A total of 4 packages have been published to karmic
* A total of 3 packages have been published to hardy
* A total of 1 package has been published to dapper

=== Beta 2 ISO Testing ===
In Progress

=== Chair ===
pedro volunteered

=== EOL Updates ===
* Karmic (9.10) - EOL on 4/30
* Hardy Desktop (8.04) - EOL on 5/12

=== Log ===
<pre>
<Mootbot-UK> Meeting started at 17:03. The chair is patrickmw.
<Mootbot-UK> Commands Available: [TOPIC], [PROGRESS REPORT], [IDEA], [ACTION], [AGREED], [LINK], [VOTE]
* charlie-tca waves
<patrickmw> Chairperson: patrickmw
 Agenda:
*** review previous action items (all)
*** SRU Report -- jibel
*** Natty Beta 2 Testing -- jibel
*** Burndown updates -- pgraner
*** Any Other Business
*** Selection of new chair -- patrickmw 
 [TOPIC] review previous action items (all)
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  review previous action items (all)
<patrickmw> any items?
 [TOPIC] SRU Report -- jibel
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  SRU Report -- jibel
<jibel> hi all!
 Over the past week 61 packages have been published to stable releases
 The complete list is available at
 [LINK] http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
<Mootbot-UK> LINK received:  http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sru/latest.html
<jibel> * A total of 40 packages have been published to maverick
** 12 packages published to maverick-updates: compiz, ecl, gnome-power-manager, gnome-python-desktop, gnome-terminal, inkscape, kdesudo, qt-sdk, system-config-printer, tomboy, update-manager, w3m
** 6 packages published to maverick-security: dhcp3, ffmpeg-extra, mahara, nss, wireshark, x11-xserver-utils
** 22 packages published to maverick-proposed: bzr, kde4libs, kdeaccessibility, kdeadmin, kdeartwork, kdebase, kdebase-runtime, kdebase-workspace, kdebindings, kdeedu, kdegames, kdegraphics, kdemultimedia, kdenetwork, kdepimlibs, kdeplasma-addons, kdesdk, kdetoys, kdeutils, kdewebdev, meta-kde, oxygen-icons
* A total of 13 packages have been published to lucid
** 7 packages published to lucid-updates: compiz, desktopcouch, gnome-python-desktop, kdesudo, openbox, qemu-kvm, w3m
** 5 packages published to lucid-security: dhcp3, ffmpeg-extra, mahara, nss, x11-xserver-utils
** linux published to lucid-proposed
* A total of 4 packages have been published to karmic-security: dhcp3, ffmpeg-extra, nss, x11-xserver-utils
* A total of 3 packages published to hardy-security: dhcp3, nss, x11-xserver-utils
* dhcp3 has been published to dapper-security
 Thanks to all the testers !
 As always, you can see the current set of packages needing testing in the -proposed queue at http://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/pending-sru.html . Your assistance in testing is always appreciated!
 ..
 any question/comment ?
<skaet> o/
* jibel waiting for skeat to break the silence
<skaet> just a reminder that we'll be EOL  Hardy Desktop,  Karmic,  followed by Dapper Server.   Any special info you'll need
 ?
<pedro_> yay for Dapper going EOL
<hggdh> it might be good to post the EOL dates here
<charlie-tca> finally!
<skaet> hggdh,  sure I'll get them summarized and post at end.
* pedro_ had a hard time testing kernel srus on dapper...
 hggdh too
<patrickmw> thank you jibel, and thank you skaet for the EOL update
 [TOPIC] Natty Beta 2 Testing -- jibel
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Natty Beta 2 Testing -- jibel
<jibel> We are currently testing candidates for Natty Beta 2 and we've gathered good results
 But some images are still incomplete or untested, and need your help
* Ubuntu Desktop amd64, amd64+mac, i386, powerpc
* Ubuntu Alternate amd64, amd64+mac
* Ubuntu Server amd64, i386
* Ubuntu DVD amd64, i386
* Kubuntu Desktop amd64, amd64+mac, omap3/4, i386, powerpc
* Kubuntu Alternate amd64, amd64+mac, i386,powerpc
* Kubuntu Mobile armel+omap3, armel+omap4, i386
* Xubuntu Alternate amd64, i386
* Xubuntu Desktop amd64, i386
* Upgrade Edubuntu amd64, i386
* Mythbuntu Desktop amd64, i386
* Ubuntu Studio Alternate amd64, i386
<bdmurray> \o
<jibel> bdmurray, ?
<bdmurray> yesterday when I was testing a Kubuntu install I ran into a crash report which because it was KDE got reported upstream and I don't feel like there is a way to track this in the iso tracker.  Is there one?
<skaet> o/
<jibel> no, there's no way to track upstream bugs.
 you should file a bug in launchpad link it to the upstream and add the bug to the tracker
<bdmurray> I wonder how the Kubuntu team will feel about that.
 I'll give it a shot though.
<jibel> bdmurray, we can chat with Riddell after the meeting if you wish
 skaet, ?
<skaet> any red flags showing up with the latest set of images?
<-- jfunk has quit (Remote host closed the connection)
* skaet doesn't want to jinx things, but wants to know if there are any kitten killers...
<patrickmw> ltsp installation is currently failing
* jibel quickly reviewing the latest bugs
<patrickmw> bug 759965
<ubot4> Launchpad bug 759965 in ltsp "ltsp installation fails on Build LTSP chroot step (affects: 1) (heat: 6)" [Undecided,New] https://launchpad.net/bugs/759965
<patrickmw> stgraber is aware
<skaet> patrickmw,  thanks,  as long as stgraber is aware we're as good as we can be.
<patrickmw> anything else?
<jibel> bug 759080 for edubuntu
<ubot4> Launchpad bug 759080 in ubuntu "DHCP Server is not installed with Edubuntu LTSP Installer (affects: 1) (heat: 6)" [High,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/759080
<patrickmw> ok
<skaet> thanks jibel, patrickmw
<jibel> otherwise, 2 bugs with Wubi, 1 is not reproducible and the other is cause by ubiquity but we didn't figured out what's happening
<patrickmw> I think we should move along :)  Please send any other critical issues to skaet
<jibel> the complete list of bugs reported is there: http://reports.qa.ubuntu.com/reports/isotesting/natty/opened.html
<patrickmw> [TOPIC] Burndown updates -- pgraner
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Burndown updates -- pgraner
<skaet> yup.  :)
<jibel> and oh, still no EC2 ready for testing
 ..
<pgraner> patrickmw, howdy, still no fixes to the burndown tracker so we are busted
 patrickmw, I need to toll the blueprints manually, however I'm on travel this week, so I'll have it ready for next mtg
<bdmurray> Does anybody have any work items scheduled for beta 2?
<pgraner> ..
<bdmurray> I don't so was thinking it might be because there are none.
<pgraner> bdmurray, quite possibly from looking at the old reports but I can't say for sure
 ..
<patrickmw> interesting.  something to look into :)
 [TOPIC] Any Other Business
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Any Other Business
<pedro_> o/
<patrickmw> pedro_ ?
<pedro_> Just a reminder that tomorrow there's a bug day about translations: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20110414
 and on Friday we're also having an special bug day to triage bugs of the iso tracker
<-- Linden940 has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
<pedro_> that page can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugDay/20110415
 so if you want to learn about bug triage, translations and iso testing please be around
 as always the bugsquad hang out at #ubuntu-bugs and help is always appreciate it
 ..
<patrickmw> great
 and so I don't volunteer myself again...
 [TOPIC] Selection of new chair -- patrickmw 
<Mootbot-UK> New Topic:  Selection of new chair -- patrickmw
<patrickmw> volunteers?
<pedro_> I'll do it
<patrickmw> thank you, pedro_
<charlie-tca> Remembered!
<patrickmw> yes!
 alright!  let's knock out the rest of the ISO tests!
# endmeeting
<-- primes2h (~sergigno@ubuntu/member/primes2h) has left #ubuntu-quality
<Mootbot-UK> Meeting finished at 17:30.
<skaet> EOL's approaching:
 Karmic (9.10) - EOL on 4/30
 Hardy Desktop (8.04) - EOL on 5/12
</pre>
