{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Tester ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width: 95%;" style="width: 33%; border: none; background-color: #ddd; padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''Requirements'''
| <style="width: 40px; border: none;">
| <style="width: 33%; border: none; background-color: #ddd; padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''Main Activities'''
| <style="width: 40px; border: none;">
| <style="width: 33%; border: none; background-color: #ddd; padding: 0.5em 1em;">'''Supporting Tasks'''
|-
| <style="background-color: #eee; border: none; vertical-align: top; padding: 0.5em 1em;">&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[QATeam-DevelopmentSetup|A development setup]]</nowiki>
| <style="border: none;">
| <style="background-color: #eee; border: none; vertical-align: top; padding: 0.5em 1em;">&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Exploratory_Testing|Exploratory Testing]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Manual_Testing|Manual Testing]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Ubuntu_Touch_Testing|Ubuntu Touch Testing]]</nowiki><<BR>>&rsaquo;&nbsp; <nowiki>[[#Unity_8_Testing|Unity 8 Testing]]</nowiki>
| <style="border: none;">
| <style="background-color: #eee; border: none; vertical-align: top; padding: 0.5em 1em;">Report and triage bugs. Improve processes.
|}

=== Exploratory Testing ===
With an installed version of the development release up and running, you can perform exploratory testing against any packages of components you wish. Go wild! Try and break things! See if the new software can handle the unexpected, or even the normal use cases. If you find a bug, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QATeam/Roles/Tester#Report_a_bug|report it]]</nowiki>!

=== Manual Testing ===
There are three main types of manual testing: '''ISO''', '''package''' and '''hardware''' testing. For all of them, we use the <nowiki>[[Testing-QATracker|QA trackers]]</nowiki>.

In the trackers, we have a list of products and testcases that need running. For example, in the ISO testing tracker, you will be able to find all the flavors and architectures as well as all of the different installation testcases we will conduct during the cycle.

* '''<nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/|ISO tracker]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[Testing-ISO-Walkthrough|ISO tracker walkthrough]]</nowiki>
* '''<nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/|Package tracker]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[Testing-Cadence-Walkthrough|Package tracker walkthrough]]</nowiki>
* '''<nowiki>[[http://laptop.qa.ubuntu.com/|Hardware tracker]]</nowiki>'''
* <nowiki>[[Testing-Laptop-Procedures|Hardware tracker walkthrough]]</nowiki>

Once in a while there will also be specific '''calls for testing''' against a certain package or software. These calls are sent to the Ubuntu Quality mailing list and shared in the social media. The instructions for these tests will be sent along the call.

=== Ubuntu Touch Testing ===
If you have a supported phablet device, you can help the team by running and reporting bugs you find within in the Touch images.

* <nowiki>[[QATeam-TouchTesting|Guide to Ubuntu Touch installation and testing]]</nowiki>

=== Unity 8 Testing ===
Instructions on testing Unity 8 can be found at the <nowiki>[[Unity8Desktop|Unity 8 Desktop]]</nowiki> page.

=== Supporting Tasks ===

==== Reporting bugs ====
You ''will'' encounter bugs when you are running and testing the development release. When you do, you should file them so developers can start working on them.

When you file many bugs, it's useful to learn to provide the right information for a bug. However, even more important than that is that you are ready to answer any questions, give any additional information and ultimately, try to reproduce the bug if the developers ask you to.

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Development_release|Guide on reporting bugs]]</nowiki>

==== Triaging bug reports ====
In addition to filing bugs, you can also help confirm and triage existing bug reports.

* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Triage|Guide on triaging bugs]]</nowiki>
