{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by patrickmw at 18:09:01 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-11-09-18.09.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions

* Community Efforts/Testing

* Automated/Systems Testing

* Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)

* Other Topics
''ACTION:'' Discuss testing minumum memory reqs with QA team  (patrickmw, 18:20:57)

* Chair Selection

Meeting ended at 18:23:31 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* Discuss testing minumum memory reqs with QA team

=== People present (lines said) ===

* patrickmw (28)
* nuclearbob (8)
* bdmurray (5)
* meetingology (4)
* ubottu (1)

=== Full Log ===

 18:09:01 <patrickmw> #startmeeting

 18:09:01 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Nov  9 18:09:01 2011 UTC.  The chair is patrickmw. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 18:09:01 <meetingology> 

 18:09:01 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 18:09:14 <patrickmw> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 18:09:48 <patrickmw> none

 18:10:02 <patrickmw> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 18:10:15 <patrickmw> jibel is out today.  anyone else have input?

 18:10:39 <nuclearbob> none here

 18:11:19 <patrickmw> TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 18:11:26 <patrickmw> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 18:11:41 <patrickmw> I will go

 18:11:43 <nuclearbob> I've got a few things

 18:11:45 <nuclearbob> okay

 18:11:47 <nuclearbob> you first

 18:12:21 <patrickmw> During UDS we have several action items for improving and growing our automated test suites.

 18:12:44 <patrickmw> We will be establishing QA submission guidelines for tests

 18:13:06 <patrickmw> As well as standardizing how to submit tests to QA

 18:13:46 <patrickmw> There are a few more projects added to the backlog which will be prioritized next week in the QA automation sprint.  Expect an update in two weeks

 18:13:50 <patrickmw> Go ahead nuclearbob

 18:14:30 <nuclearbob> we had a session about the qa-regression-testing code at UDS, I proposed a couple of additional metadata tags that we're working on adding, and we're still determining the best way to specify dependencies across different distro versions

 18:14:58 <nuclearbob> during the upcoming sprint I'd like to get some of those tests into jenkins and automatically running on the new lab

 18:15:13 <nuclearbob> that's what I've got

 18:15:20 <patrickmw> any one else?

 18:16:03 <patrickmw> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status (hggdh, Ursinha, pedro_, bdmurray)

 18:16:34 <bdmurray> I've nothing very exciting to report

 18:17:09 <patrickmw> hggdh, Ursinha?

 18:17:40 <patrickmw> k

 18:17:42 <patrickmw> moving on

 18:17:44 <patrickmw> [TOPIC] Other Topics

 18:18:14 <bdmurray> With all this testing are there any plans to test the minimum memory needed for installing Ubuntu?

 18:19:24 <patrickmw> I have not heard anything about that. Is this something that you thought of or was this discussed prior?  We could certainly talk more about it

 18:20:12 <bdmurray> Something I'd thought of and that has long needed addressing.

 18:20:47 <bdmurray> bug 820842 is related

 18:20:50 <ubottu> Launchpad bug 820842 in ubiquity (Ubuntu) "Minimal memory requirement (512MB) too low to install Ubuntu Desktop in a VM" [Low,Confirmed] https://launchpad.net/bugs/820842

 18:20:57 <patrickmw> [ACTION] Discuss testing minumum memory reqs with QA team

 18:20:57 * meetingology Discuss testing minumum memory reqs with QA team

 18:21:19 <patrickmw> ok, I will bring this to the team's attention next week and keep you posted

 18:21:53 <bdmurray> Okay, its worth noting that there is an amount put on the CD sleeves which should be verified.

 18:21:57 <patrickmw> anything to add?

 18:22:46 <patrickmw> thanks, bdmurray

 18:22:56 <patrickmw> [TOPIC] Chair Selection

 18:23:16 <patrickmw> Since the QA team will be in the same room next week we can decide who will run it then

 18:23:26 <nuclearbob> sounds good

 18:23:28 <patrickmw> thanks all

 18:23:31 <patrickmw> #endmeeting

Generated by MeetBot 0.1.5 (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot)
