{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by balloons at 14:06:50 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2012/ubuntu-meeting.2012-10-10-14.06.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions

* Ubuntu Updates

* Other Updates

Meeting ended at 14:23:58 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* (none)

=== People present (lines said) ===

* balloons (28)
* smartboyhw (22)
* epikvision (7)
* meetingology (3)

=== Full Log ===

 14:06:50 <balloons> #startmeeting ubuntu qa community

 14:06:50 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Oct 10 14:06:50 2012 UTC.  The chair is balloons. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/meetingology.

 14:06:50 <meetingology> 

 14:06:50 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 14:08:10 <balloons> ok, agenda time

 14:08:43 * balloons balloons to update qa.ubuntu.com theme

 14:08:50 <balloons> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 14:09:36 <balloons> I still have the action to do the update -- it's still in progress.. I don't like holding it around for this long. I think I will remove it from the agenda and report when it's complete

 14:09:49 <balloons> moving on

 14:09:56 <balloons> [TOPIC] Ubuntu Updates

 14:10:21 <smartboyhw> balloons, what did I miss?

 14:10:22 <epikvision> Ok I'm back.

 14:10:30 <smartboyhw> Hi also epikvision

 14:10:35 <balloons> This week the RC iso's will come out, culminating a cycle's worth of effort by everyone

 14:10:42 <epikvision> Good morning smartboyhw

 14:10:55 <balloons> smartboyhw, nothing really

 14:11:00 <smartboyhw> balloons, oh?

 14:12:04 <epikvision> What's more recommended? Fresh install of RC or upgrade to RC

 14:12:21 <epikvision> From stable build?

 14:12:23 <balloons> Testing is being focused on the new features for quantal for those who have upgraded.. Things like the new unity, the new suggestions feature, the webapps integration

 14:12:34 <balloons> epikvision, ahh from yourself running precise?

 14:12:55 <epikvision> I have a computer on precise, and another on daily build.

 14:12:58 <balloons> you may do etheir, both with test things, but in different ways

 14:13:15 <balloons> upgrade testing is always helpful

 14:13:23 <smartboyhw> Yeah:D

 14:15:33 <smartboyhw> ..

 14:15:35 <balloons> quickly, do we have any other comments on ubuntu? I sent a mail as well talking about ARM testing and looking for regressions. At this point in the cycle, we must really be mindful of not regressing on features from previous releases, or from earlier in the cycle even

 14:15:52 <smartboyhw> balloons, no:D

 14:15:57 <balloons> if not, we'll move into the open topics :-)

 14:16:02 <smartboyhw> :_)

 14:16:04 <balloons> [TOPIC] Other Updates

 14:16:20 <balloons> ok, anyone have anything to share?

 14:16:27 <smartboyhw> \o

 14:16:36 <balloons> go ahead smartboyhw

 14:16:45 <smartboyhw> balloons, few questions

 14:17:07 <epikvision> How do I upgrade a package? My libreoffice on daily build still has that text selection bug, but fix has been released. How can I upgrade my Libreoffice to the updated package?

 14:17:11 <smartboyhw> 1. The Ubuntu Studio post-installation testcase is going to be ported today from the sandbox to the main area, just a inform:D

 14:17:15 <epikvision> Sorry smartboyhw

 14:17:42 <smartboyhw> epikvision, NP we can talk about it later but it is a QA meeting not a support channel:D

 14:18:03 <smartboyhw> 2. Since I come to the meeting late balloons is the QA site still not fixed?

 14:19:09 <balloons> 1) Excellent news

 14:19:14 <balloons> 2) No it's still not

 14:19:19 <smartboyhw> Alright then

 14:19:25 <smartboyhw> 3. Where is phillw?

 14:19:26 <smartboyhw> :D

 14:19:28 <balloons> but it's still on the list.. It's not been forgotten

 14:19:55 <balloons> it likely won't happen till after release, when there aren't release critical pieces to work on

 14:20:05 <smartboyhw> :)

 14:20:20 <balloons> any other questions?

 14:20:34 <smartboyhw> balloons, you saw my third question?:D

 14:21:40 <balloons> phillw, I would gather is on the earth somewhere.. most likely his home country, and most likely his home

 14:21:53 <smartboyhw> balloons, LOL

 14:22:23 <smartboyhw> Anyway nothing:D

 14:22:24 <smartboyhw> ..

 14:23:31 <balloons> hehe

 14:23:41 <balloons> with that, I think we're done, heh

 14:23:46 <smartboyhw> Ya

 14:23:48 <smartboyhw> *Yay

 14:23:52 <balloons> I hope everyone is ready and gearing up for greatness

 14:23:58 <balloons> #endmeeting
