{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Unassign the ubuntu-kernel-team from kernel bugs ====
It used to be the kernel team's policy that bugs that had a status of Confirmed or Triaged and also had their Importance set should also be assigned to the ubuntu-kernel-team in launchpad.  The reason for this was due to the large volume of open kernel bugs.  Assigning a subset of bugs directly to the ubuntu-kernel-team allowed them to focus on a smaller more tangible set of bugs.  However, during a kernel round table discussion during UDS Jaunty it was determined that the kernel team does not actively filter bugs in Launchpad assigned to the ubuntu-kernel-team.  Instead they typically use the <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~ogasawara/kernel-buglist.html|QA generated weekly bug list]]</nowiki> to help narrow down a subset of bugs to focus on.  As a result it was agreed that assignment of the ubuntu-kernel-team would no longer be part the kernel team's bug policy.  Going forward the ubuntu-kernel-team will only be assigned in a more restricted sense, eg. to bugs which need to be addressed prior to each release.  In order for this to happen we need all bugs that previously had been assigned to the ubuntu-kernel-team to now be unassigned.

==== Process and Criteria ====
We're hoping the Launchpad Team (via the Launchpad Janitor) might be able to help automate unassigning the ubuntu-kernel-team from bugs.  Additionally it would be preferred if we can avoid spamming every subscriber of these bugs with bug mail.  This is the current list of open bugs assigned to the ubuntu-kernel-team:

https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-kernel-team/+assignedbugs

1. Unassign the ubuntu-kernel-team from the bug report
** Don't touch private bug reports
** Don't touch bugs which also have ubuntu-security subscribed to them
# The launchpad janitor will automatically post a stock reply (see below)
# Turn off sending bugmail to any of the bug subscribers
# It appears that some bugs have multiple tasks open and each of those tasks assigned to the ubuntu-kernel-team (for ex <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/29971|bug 29971]]</nowiki>).  We want the ubuntu-kernel-team unsubscribed from each task but avoid posting the stock reply multiple times.

==== Stock Reply ====
Per a decision made by the Ubuntu Kernel Team, bugs will longer be assigned to the ubuntu-kernel-team in Launchpad as part of the bug triage process.  The ubuntu-kernel-team is being unassigned from this bug report.  Refer to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelTeamBugPolicies for more information.  Thanks.
