{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Meeting started by hggdh at 17:00:32 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2011/ubuntu-meeting.2011-08-17-17.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Previous Actions

* Community Efforts/Testing
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule   (jibel, 17:03:44)
''LINK:'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam   (jibel, 17:04:07)

* Automated/Systems Testing

* Engineering Team Bug Status

* Odds & Ends
''ACTION:'' jibel to chair next meeting  (hggdh, 17:17:53)

Meeting ended at 17:18:32 UTC.

=== Votes ===

=== Action items ===

* jibel to chair next meeting

=== Action items, by person ===

* jibel
* * jibel to chair next meeting

=== People present (lines said) ===

* hggdh (47)
* patrickmw (16)
* jibel (15)
* charlie-tca (9)
* meetingology (8)
* negueba (2)
* Ursinha (2)

=== Full Log ===

 17:00:32 <hggdh> #startmeeting

 17:00:32 <meetingology> Meeting started Wed Aug 17 17:00:32 2011 UTC.  The chair is hggdh. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 17:00:32 <meetingology> Useful Commands: #topic #action #link #idea #voters #vote #chair #action #agreed #help #info #endmeeting.

 17:00:37 <Ursinha> .17

 17:00:41 <Ursinha> sorry

 17:01:04 <hggdh> [TOPIC] Previous Actions

 17:01:04 <meetingology> TOPIC: Previous Actions

 17:01:15 * charlie-tca waves

 17:01:19 <hggdh> any previous actions? I am not aware of any

 17:01:25 <charlie-tca> no previous actions that I can think of

 17:01:50 <hggdh> BTW, apology from bdmurray, not available tonight

 17:02:04 <hggdh> so

 17:02:06 <hggdh> [TOPIC] Community Efforts/Testing

 17:02:06 <meetingology> TOPIC: Community Efforts/Testing

 17:02:31 <hggdh> pedro is not available either, BTW.

 17:02:41 <hggdh> anything on community efforts?

 17:03:00 <jibel> It's not like if they were in the same timezone as me ;)

 17:03:10 <jibel> Hey all o/

 17:03:15 <jibel> Nothing special this week, just a few dates:

 17:03:23 <jibel> Oneiric Beta 1 testing will start in less than 2 weeks:

 17:03:44 <jibel> #link https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule

 17:03:56 <jibel> Followed immediately by the Ubuntu Global Jam:

 17:04:07 <jibel> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam

 17:04:19 <jibel> which incorporates a Testing event depending on where you will be attending

 17:04:25 <jibel> that's all from me

 17:04:26 <jibel> ..

 17:04:32 <jibel> any question ?

 17:04:49 <hggdh> thank you, jibel

 17:04:58 <hggdh> with no questions, we move on

 17:05:00 <hggdh> [TOPIC] Automated/Systems Testing

 17:05:00 <meetingology> TOPIC: Automated/Systems Testing

 17:05:07 <patrickmw> = Public Jenkins =

 17:05:07 <patrickmw> ï¿½ It's official - https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/

 17:05:07 <patrickmw> = DX Testing =

 17:05:07 <patrickmw> ï¿½ DX testing environment ready to start creating jobs

 17:05:07 <patrickmw> ï¿½ Open RT for getting LP access in order to branch projects -kind of important :)

 17:05:07 <hggdh> patrickmw: floor is yours

 17:05:21 * hggdh was, as usual, too slow

 17:06:10 <patrickmw> Now everyone can see the status of our automated testing suites/

 17:06:25 <patrickmw> this will continue to grow, so keep an eye out

 17:06:26 <patrickmw> ..

 17:06:31 <hggdh> patrickmw: the public Jenkins is read-only for all, correct?

 17:06:34 <patrickmw> yes

 17:07:00 <jibel> patrickmw, will the public jenkins be opened to derivatives e.g xubuntu ?

 17:07:36 <patrickmw> I see the instance to be available for all and any testing

 17:07:48 <charlie-tca> really?

 17:07:54 <hggdh> :-)

 17:07:55 <patrickmw> yes

 17:07:58 <charlie-tca> thanks

 17:08:15 <hggdh> BTW, the test code we run there is located at https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server-iso-testing-dev/ubuntu-server-iso-testing/trunk

 17:08:16 <patrickmw> anything, but you will have to go through us to get your requests on the backlog

 17:08:54 <hggdh> please do not be put off by the title -- when we started, it was only for the server. Now it is anything we can get to run ;-)

 17:09:12 <hggdh> so, if you are willing to, please add tests and propose merges

 17:09:39 * charlie-tca will try to learn how to do that

 17:09:50 <charlie-tca> ..

 17:09:50 <jibel> hggdh, we should definitely rename this project because it tests more than ISOs now

 17:09:56 <patrickmw> agreed

 17:09:59 <hggdh> jibel: I agree

 17:10:10 <patrickmw> i'll put in on the backlog :)

 17:10:21 <hggdh> we can discuss it out-of-band, and then rename the beast

 17:10:26 <hggdh> so

 17:10:39 <hggdh> anything else on automated tests?

 17:10:51 <patrickmw> yes, I have a few other topics about the framework too.  Nothing else from me

 17:11:02 <hggdh> please go ahead, patrickmw

 17:11:15 <patrickmw> offline is best :)

 17:11:32 <hggdh> ok

 17:11:34 <hggdh> [TOPIC] Engineering Team Bug Status

 17:11:34 <meetingology> TOPIC: Engineering Team Bug Status

 17:11:51 <hggdh> bdmurray and pedro are absent. So... Ursinha ?

 17:12:16 <jibel> they are sprinting not absent. And Ursinha is printing, that may take a while.

 17:12:23 <hggdh> LOL

 17:13:21 * hggdh feels the printing is quite long

 17:13:30 <hggdh> we move on.

 17:13:41 <negueba> hey folks, don't know if the problem happens just for me but in ubuntu 11.04 the drivers atl1c and ath9k don't work at the same time... the system always happens to freezes at the splash screen... to get the system work i need to first disable my wireless card and then rmmod any of the drivers

 17:13:53 <hggdh> for the record, most of the QA folks are in a sprint

 17:14:12 <hggdh> negueba: this is not the correct channel. Please try #ubuntu

 17:14:21 <jibel> negueba, we appreciate your problem but there is a meeting in progress

 17:14:36 <negueba> i'm sorry guys

 17:14:41 <hggdh> so their absence is justified (it is time for beers)

 17:14:45 <hggdh> so we move on

 17:15:03 <hggdh> [TOPIC] Odds & Ends

 17:15:03 <meetingology> TOPIC: Odds & Ends

 17:15:40 <hggdh> this is open floor. Anyone wishing to talk should do so now

 17:15:55 <hggdh> 3

 17:15:57 <hggdh> 2

 17:16:00 <hggdh> 1

 17:16:03 <hggdh> TOPIC: Chair Selection

 17:16:13 <hggdh> any candidates?

 17:16:48 <hggdh> otherwise it will be shuf -e charlie-tca patrickmw pedro_ bdmurray jibel Ursinha|head -1

 17:16:58 <hggdh> charlie-tca: can I include your name?

 17:17:02 <charlie-tca> sure

 17:17:25 <hggdh> jibel: you have been selected...

 17:17:38 <hggdh> :-)

 17:17:53 <hggdh> [ACTION] jibel to chair next meeting

 17:17:53 * meetingology jibel to chair next meeting

 17:17:55 <charlie-tca> :)

 17:18:10 <charlie-tca> That sure is easier

 17:18:28 <hggdh> and so, with the deafening silence on us, I...

 17:18:32 <hggdh> #endmeeting
