{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Kernel Bug Migration ===
Beginning with the Hardy Heron 8.04 LTS release the Ubuntu kernel source package naming convention changed from 'linux-source-2.6.xx' to just 'linux'.  Going forward, all kernel bugs will be reported against the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/|linux]]</nowiki> package.  It is important to the Ubuntu QA and Kernel Team that bugs open against older kernels that still exist in the current development kernel be carried forward.  This wiki will document the process that will be followed as this transition is made.

=== Process ===
There are thousands of bugs open against older Ubuntu kernels (~2800 to be exact).  It will be a time consuming process to move bugs forward manually.  A better method would be to automate the process.  This could be done through the use of the launchpad-janitor.  Process details are outlined and discussed below:

# Launchpad janitor will automatically post a stock reply depending on which kernel is being processed (see below)
## Temporarily disable sending emails to ubuntu-kernel-team (if subscribed to bug report) to avoid spamming the kernel team mailing list
# linux-source-2.6.15 bugs will be renamed to the new "linux" kernel package.  Also, tag these 'linux-source-2.6.15' to maintain package history
# linux-source-2.6.17 bugs will be closed as Won't Fix as the 18 month support period has ended.  The new "linux" task will be added but marked as Incomplete.  See stock reply for more info.  Also, tag these 'linux-source-2.6.17' to easily list which bugs were migrated and isolate possible candidates to close if we've received no response for testing with the latest release.
# linux-source-2.6.20 and linux-source-2.6.22 bugs will be marked as Won't Fix.  The new "linux" task will be added but marked as Incomplete.  See stock reply for more info.  Also, tag these 'linux-source-2.6.20' or 'linux-source-2.6.22' to easily list which bugs were migrated and isolate possible candidates to close if we've received no response for testing with the latest release.

=== Criteria ===
Document how we will determine which bugs to automatically carry forward with the process outlined above.  Note, we must be able to determine this criteria in an automated fashion.

# Bug is not undergoing the SRU process (ubuntu-sru is not a subscriber and the bug is not specifically targeted to a release) 
# Bug is not a security bug (security_related is false)
# Bug must be against a linux-source-2.6.xx package and have a Status of either New, Incomplete, Confirmed, or Triaged
# Bug must only be tasked to a single linux-source-2.6.xx package (ie bugs against multiple kernel releases will not be handled in this first pass)
# Bug does not already have a "linux" task (just reiterating above)
# Bug is not a High or Critical bug - we should look at the High and Critical bugs manually
# Bug is not In Progress or Fix Committed - these should be looked at manually too as they may really be fixed

=== Stock Reply ===
'''Stock Reply for 2.6.15'''
<pre>
Beginning with the Hardy Heron 8.04 development cycle, all open Ubuntu kernel bugs need to be reported against the "linux" kernel package.  We are automatically migrating this linux-source-2.6.15 kernel bug to the new "linux" package.  We appreciate your patience and understanding as we make this transition.  Also, if you would be interested in testing the upcoming Intrepid Ibex 8.10 release, it is available at http://www.ubuntu.com/testing .  Please let us know your results.  Thanks!
</pre>

'''Stock Reply for 2.6.17'''
<pre>
The 18 month support period for Edgy Eft 6.10 has reached its end of life. As a result, we are closing the linux-source-2.6.17 Edgy Eft kernel task. However, development has already began for the upcoming Intrepid Ibex 8.10 release. It would be helpful if you could test the upcoming release and verify if this is still an issue - http://www.ubuntu.com/testing .  If the issue still exists, please update this report by changing the Status of the "linux" task from "Incomplete" to "New".  We appreciate your patience and understanding as we make this transition.  Thanks!
</pre>

'''Stock Reply for 2.6.20 and 2.6.22'''
<pre>
Beginning with the Hardy Heron 8.04 development cycle, all open Ubuntu kernel bugs need to be reported against the "linux" kernel package.  We are automatically migrating this bug to the new "linux" package.  However, development has already began for the upcoming Intrepid Ibex 8.10 release.  It would be helpful if you could test the upcoming release and verify if this is still an issue - http://www.ubuntu.com/testing .  If the issue still exists, please update this report by changing the Status of the "linux" task from "Incomplete" to "New".  We appreciate your patience and understanding as we make this transition.  Thanks!
</pre>

=== Todo ===
Document what needs to be done and when.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Task
| Completion Date
| Notes
|-
| Create <nowiki>[[QATeam-KernelBugMigration]]</nowiki> wiki that documents what is being done and why
| TBD
| 
|-
| Investigate if python-launchpad-bugs has functionality to add new tasks
| TBD
| answer is no - submitted p-l-b bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/python-launchpad-bugs/+bug/193853|193853]]</nowiki>
|-
| Manually inspect High and Critical bugs against 2.6.15 and 2.6.22
| TBD
| In Progress - ogasawara
|-
| Manually inspect In Progress and Fix Committed bugs against 2.6.17, 2.6.20 and 2.6.22 kernel
| TBD
| In Progress - ogasawara
|-
| Find the <nowiki>[[https://devpad.canonical.com/~brian/kernel-bug-querying.html|count of New, Incomplete, Confirmed, and Triaged]]</nowiki> bugs open against a single kernel release which will be affected - probably a database query
| June 9, 2008
| Done - bdmurray
|-
| Find the average # of subscribers each affected bug has - probably a database query
| TBD
| In Progress - bdmurray
|-
| Live run of Launchpad-janitor
| TBD
| Launchpad Team
|}
