{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Triaging in general ==

The rest of this page is about what to look for when traiging a bug against a certain component. This section, however, explains the core actions that make up bug triaging. These are general guidelines that apply to most bug reports. It is recommended that you read this thoroughly when starting with triaging.

You should also read <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Bugs-Status]]</nowiki> to get a good understanding of the meaning of the different importances and statuses a bug can have on <nowiki>[[Launchpad]]</nowiki>.

The parts of this section are sorted on a chronological order; the actions in the beginning of the life cycle of a bug first and the actions in the end at last.

=== New bugs ===

During working days often more than one new bug report is reported every ten minutes. We do our best to keep up with the ever growing amount of bugs, but it's a hard job. New bugs are not in short supply and therefore a very good way to start your triaging career with.

How to get a list of newly reported bugs? Don't be confused by the 'New' link on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu|Ubuntu's bug overview page on Launchpad]]</nowiki>, that will only filter on the status and you might end up reading a bug that has already been worked on by another triager.
Instead use the ''Advanced Search'' option or us this link to get <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status:list=NEW&field.importance:list=UNDECIDED&assignee_option=none&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_cve.used=&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.has_no_package.used=&search=Search|the list of untriaged bugs]]</nowiki>.

If you want to search manually, use these search options:
* '''Status:''' New
* '''Importance:''' Undecided
* '''Assigned to:''' Nobody

Some people want to get notified each time a new bug is reported. That can be done on different ways:

* Add the <nowiki>[[http://feeds.launchpad.net/ubuntu/latest-bugs.atom|Launchpad Atom feed for new Ubuntu bugs]]</nowiki> to your feed aggregator
* Join the #ubuntu-bugs-announce InternetRelayChat channel on irc.freenode.net.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+subscribe|Subscribe to all new bugs]]</nowiki> on <nowiki>[[Launchpad]]</nowiki> itself [Warning: this is a high volume list that will fill up your mailbox fast].
* Subscribe to the https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugs <nowiki>[[MailingList|mailing list]]</nowiki> [Warning: this is a high volume list that will fill up your mailbox fast].

=== Incomplete bug reports ===

== Confirming bugs == 

=== Fixed bugs ===

= 
