{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


If you would like to '''concentrate''' your efforts on '''one application''' rather than dividing your attention over all of the different bugs reported against Ubuntu, you should consider '''adopting''' a package.

If you've '''just started''' with triaging bugs and want '''help''' please look at <nowiki>[[BugSquad-Mentors]]</nowiki> '''instead'''.

By adopting a package you take responsibility for keeping the package in good health. This means that you verify old bugs, handle new bugs and forward bugs upstream. Currently a lot of packages aren't being looked after and bugs reported against it are easily forgotten. When you adopt a package your first effort is to make sure all previously reported bugs are properly triaged. This is the hardest part of adopting a package, when that's done you need to make sure the package stays healthy. The <nowiki>[[QATeam]]</nowiki>'s Package status reports at <nowiki>[[http://status.qa.ubuntu.com/qapkgstatus/]]</nowiki> can be a great help to keep an eye on your bugs.
If you've gained some experience and have successfully handled the first stage of adopting a package you could consider adopting another package. However, when you're new it's better to start with one.

=== How to Adopt a Package ===
You've decided you want to adopt a package? Great! Now you have to choose what package you would like to take responsibility for. If you're new to triaging it's best to join an existing group with experience. At the bottom of this page you'll find a list of <nowiki>[[#Already_Adopted_Packages|already adopted packages]]</nowiki>. You could also adopt a package no one is looking after, but make sure you pick a package you can handle or create a team. Please consider adopting one of the <nowiki>[[#Packages_that_need_particular_care|packages that need particular care]]</nowiki>.

There are small packages and large packages in Ubuntu. Some packages have only two bugs reported against them and some two thousand. Those smaller packages can be triaged by one person, but the larger should be adopted by a group of people. We call this group an <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptionTeam|Adoption Team]]</nowiki>. This is a group of people who've committed themselves to the adoption of one source package. Because there are so many bugs to triage the triaging process is divided into several tasks; e.g. there are people that just forward bugs upstream, whereas other people process incoming new bug reports.

Now it's time to come into action! The steps below explain how to adopt.

'''Adopting a previously not adopted package'''
1. Pick a package you would like to adopt
** For <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptionTeam|Adoption Teams]]</nowiki>: find a group and document your engagements on a wiki page
# Add your name or team to this wiki page
# Send a mail to the BugSquad <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-bugsquad|maillist]]</nowiki>.
# Start triaging!

'''Helping with an already adopted package'''
# Pick a package you would like to adopt
# Contact the adopter by mail or in the <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.freenode.net-ubuntu-bugs|#ubuntu-bugs]]</nowiki> IRC channel at FreeNode.
# Start triaging!

=== Packages that need particular care ===

The packages listed here are important parts of the system. When you're looking for an orphan package to adopt, please consider these first.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpi-support|acpi-support]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/control-center|control-center]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer|debian-installer]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/devicekit-disks|devicekit-disks]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evolution|evolution]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm|gdm]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-media|gnome-media]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager|gnome-power-manager]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools|gnome-system-tools]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel|gnome-panel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub|grub]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bugs|kdebase]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdepim/+bugs|kdepim]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openoffice.org/+bugs|openoffice.org]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bugs|synaptic]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bugs|ubiquity]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bugs|update-manager]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bugs|xorg]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bugs|xserver-xorg-video-ati]]</nowiki>

A way of looking for packages that aren't adopted yet you could search for packages without a Bug Subscriber -- someone who receives all bug mail against the package (s)he's subscribed to. The <nowiki>[[QATeam]]</nowiki> maintains a list of all source packages without subscriber at <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/package/packages-without-subscribers.txt]]</nowiki>.

=== Already Adopted Packages ===
If you decide to help with already adopted packages take a look here. When you adopt a package, please update to list.

==== Larger Packages ====
The most complex and the most malformed bug reports are against the larger packages. We call them large because the amount of bugs reported against them is large, but a lot of those packages are also large as in size and complex. Those packages are best adopted by a team of people, a so called Adoption Team. The <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptionTeam|Adoption Team wiki page]]</nowiki> gives suggestions for running such a team, but you can always come up with your own structure that scales better.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Source package'''
| '''Team wiki-page'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bugs|nautilus]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage-Nautilus]]</nowiki>
|}

Some parts of Ubuntu have their own teams for looking after the bugs. Please contact those teams if you're interested in helping in those areas.
A comprehensive list:
* <nowiki>[[KernelTeam]]</nowiki>

==== Small and Medium Packages ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Source package'''
| '''Adopter(s)'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/amarok/+bugs|amarok]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[FreddyMartinez]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[RjMarsan]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-installer|debian-installer]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[JonathanCarter]]</nowiki> and others
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/devhelp/+bugs|devhelp]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Qense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dutch/+bugs|dutch]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Qense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/empathy/+bugs|empathy]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[BCurtisWX]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox|firefox]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[micahg]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0|firefox-3.0]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[micahg]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.5|firefox-3.5]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[micahg]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fpc/+bugs|fpc]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Elbrus|Paul Gevers]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/guake/+bugs|guake]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Qense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/keep/+bugs|keep]]</nowiki>
| JonathanJesse
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kubuntu-docs/+bugs|kubuntu-docs]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[JonathanJesse]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lazarus/+bugs|lazarus]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Elbrus|Paul Gevers]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-pack-gnome-nl/+bugs|language-pack-gnome-nl]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Qense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/language-pack-nl/+bugs|language-pack-nl]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Qense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lesstif2/+bugs|lesstif2]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Elbrus|Paul Gevers]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nedit/+bugs|nedit]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Elbrus|Paul Gevers]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bugs|network-manager]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[ChrisBurgan]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/+bugs|thunderbird]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[micahg]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bugs|ubiquity]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[HenrikOmma]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/usb-creator/+bugs|usb-creator]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[komputes]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vino/+bugs|vino]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[JonhWendell]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/winff/+bugs|winff]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Elbrus|PaulGevers]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/zeitgeist/+bugs|zeitgeist]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[Qense|Sense Hofstede]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Glossary ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Word'''
| '''Description'''
|-
| ''source package''
| A source package is the uncompiled code, i.e. the code is not translated to the computer's own language: binary. In this form the application was written and in this form it was downloaded from the project's website or version control system. What may seem like different applications in Synpatic can actually come from one source package. So provides the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus|'nautilus' source]]</nowiki> not only the 'nautilus' binary package, but also the binary packages 'nautilus-dbg', 'libnautilus-extension1' and 'libnautilus-extension-dev'.
|-
| ''triaging''
| Triaging is the job of processing new bug reports, assess their effects and pass them on to the developers. It is what the BugSquad does. The wiki page <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> explains how to traige and is a good starting point for new triagers.
|}

----
<code>CategoryBugSquad</code>
