{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== New Features in Ubuntu Server ==

The 12.04 (codenamed, Precise Pangolin) cycle has focussed on deployment, stability and quality.

Ubuntu 12.04 ships the latest OpenStack release, codenamed Essex, and a new feature called <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MAAS|MAAS]]</nowiki>.  In addition the !CharmStore was made available making deployment of centralised charm with Juju easier.  A new technology which is available for testing (via a PPA) is <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com/cloud/awsome|AWSOME]]</nowiki>.

These technologies further position Ubuntu Server as the best OS for scale-out computing. Quality also had a strong focus with continuous integration, deployment and testing of upstream OpenStack commits and automated testing of all Amazon ec2 AMI's from Lucid to Precise.

=== OpenStack ===
* <nowiki>[[http://openstack.org/|OpenStack]]</nowiki> projects have been updated to the Essex final release.
*** /bin/false is now the default for the nova user (upgrade transition handled).
*** New binary package, nova-cert is now needed to decrypt images which removes M2Crypto as a requirement.
*** Quantum has been divided into quantum and quantum client packages.
*** Glance has new configuration file structure.
*** nova uses nova-rootwrap by default, which provides a more fine grained security layer.
*** openstackx has been removed from horizon.
*** ajaxconsole has been dropped, in favour of a VNC based solution.
*** ec2 admin api removed.
*** Quantum, Melange, and Nova network models have been merged.
*** Many OSAPI extenstions have been added.
*** euca-upload-bundle now works with keystone.
* !OpenStack components are deployable via Juju Charms.
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.openstack.org/keystone|Keystone]]</nowiki> has been updated to Keystone-light (redux branch). Keystone-light is a new, from scratch rewrite this cycle, replacing the existing upstream source from Oneiric / 11.10.
* Glance now requires a manual database migration after upgrade.
* The default install of Openstack should be used on a protected network, as many components use http (non-SSL) as a transport, and therefore subject to security concerns.  This can be mitigated by post install customisations.

=== MAAS ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/MAAS|Metal as a Service]]</nowiki> brings the language of the cloud to physical servers. It makes it easy to set up the hardware on which to deploy any service that needs to scale up and down dynamically.

=== AWSOME ===
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com/cloud/awsome|AWSOME]]</nowiki> (“Any Web Service over Me”) provides IAAS API’s for OpenStack which are also implemented by Amazon EC2, making it easy to deploy and manage cloud services across both Amazon and OpenStack clouds.

=== Juju ===
* Juju <nowiki>[[http://jujucharms.com/charms|CharmStore]]</nowiki> now available allowing for deployment of all available charmed services without needing charms local to the environment.
* <nowiki>[[https://juju.ubuntu.com/docs/subordinate-services.html|Subordinate Services]]</nowiki> added allowing for units of different services to be deployed into the same container and to have knowledge of each other.
* <nowiki>[[https://juju.ubuntu.com/docs/constraints.html|Machine Constraints]]</nowiki> added offering users the ability to pick the hardware to which their services will be deployed.

=== Java ===
* <nowiki>[[http://tomcat.apache.org|Apache Tomcat]]</nowiki> 7.0.26 is available in Universe alongside version 6.0.35 which continues to be the supported version for Ubuntu 12.04.  
** Please note that Tomcat 7 will replace Tomcat 6 as the supported version of Apache Tomcat in Ubuntu 12.10. 
* <nowiki>[[http://activemq.apache.org/|Apache ActiveMQ]]</nowiki> 5.5.0 is available in Universe.
* <nowiki>[[http://jenkins-ci.org|Jenkins]]</nowiki> 1.424.6 LTS is available in Universe.
* <nowiki>[[http://openjdk.java.net/|OpenJDK]]</nowiki> 7 (closely aligned to Oracle Java 7) is available in Universe. 
** Please note that OpenJDK 7 will become the default Java implementation in Ubuntu 12.10.
* <nowiki>[[http://groovy.codehaus.org/|Groovy]]</nowiki> 1.8.6 is available in Universe.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.scala-lang.org/|Scala]]</nowiki> 2.9.1 is available in Universe.
* <nowiki>[[http://clojure.org/|Clojure]]</nowiki> 1.1.0 is available in Universe.

=== Virtualisation ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.xen.org/|Xen]]</nowiki> is now included and officially supported:
** Provides the facility to run Ubuntu as a Xen virtualisation host (dom0)
** <nowiki>[[http://libvirt.org/|Libvirt]]</nowiki> integration/Xen domains manageable through libvirt or any frontend that uses libvirt.
** Guest installations in HVM mode will use optimized paravirt drivers out of the box.
* <nowiki>[[http://lxc.sourceforge.net/|LXC]]</nowiki> improvements include:
** The ability for stock 12.04 images to boot in a container
** Apparmor protection to increase security
** Support for lvm- and btrfs-backed containers
** New ubuntu-cloud template for simple creation of containers based on published Ubuntu Cloud images.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page|KVM]]</nowiki> (version 1.0) and Libvirt improvements include:
** QED (Qemu enhanced disk format) support
** AHCI protocol support
** Nested guest support for Intel processors (in addition to AMD support)
** Public API to invoke suspend/resume on the host from libvirt
** STP and VLAN filtering from libvirt
** Bandwidth QoS control in libvirt
** CPU bandwidth limits support

=== File System ===
* <nowiki>[[http://ceph.newdream.net/|CEPH]]</nowiki> client libraries, librbd and librados, have been added to main supporting use with KVM.
* CIFS now has file system cache support to improve performance.
* Software RAID now supports bad block management (MD).

=== ARM Support ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.open-mpi.org|OpenMPI]]</nowiki> 1.5 for ARM available in Universe. (Bug:889644)
** openmpi 1.5 provides improved ARM support. As this is an upstream beta we have not transitioned openmpi in the archive, but instead added a separate openmpi1.5 package for those who wish to use it.

=== Other ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/query2|Query2]]</nowiki>, a new meta-data service for describing the Ubuntu Cloud Images and their availability, has been introduced. This new meta-data service provides a verbose, machine-readable JSON formatted file that exhaustively describes the currently available Ubuntu Cloud Images hosted on cloud-images.ubuntu.com and official Ubuntu images in public clouds (currently limited to Amazon ec2).
* New <nowiki>[[http://www.zentyal.com/|Zentyal]]</nowiki> packages available in Universe. 
** These packages are a ''rename'' of the existing ebox packages along with a ''new upstream release'' fixing known issues in the current ebox packages in Ubuntu 11.10. 
* <nowiki>[[http://www.resara.org/|Resara]]</nowiki>, an open source Linux Domain controller and file server based on Samba4, has been added to Universe. 
* acpid introduced to both Server and Cloud images by default.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.opscode.com/chef/|Chef]]</nowiki> 0.8.16 (Bug:948437) and corresponding <nowiki>[[http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Ohai|Ohai]]</nowiki> packages (Bug:948438) removed from precise at the request of !OpsCode.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.eucalyptus.com|Eucalyptus]]</nowiki> 2.0.1 (Bug:953405) removed from precise at the request of Eucalyptus.
 
 
== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

=== Download ===

Ubuntu Server 12.04 images can be downloaded from a location near you:
* http://www.ubuntu.com/download

The images can also be found at: 
* http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/ (Ubuntu Server) 
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/ (preinstalled ARM images, source)
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/12.04/ (Ubuntu Netboot)

=== System Requirements ===

* The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu Server 12.04 is 128 MB of memory.
* The i386 image has a recommended maximum of 16GB of RAM, and a maximum of 8 CPU cores are exposed.

=== Netboot ARM Server Images ===

The ARM Netboot images allow you to bootstrap <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Server|Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki> on supported hardware.
There are three images available, each for a different type of computer:
* Marvell Armada-XP (Hard-Float) netboot server image
* Texas Instruments OMAP3 (Hard-Float) netboot server image
* Texas Instruments OMAP4 (Hard-Float) netboot server image

Detailed installations instructions for the 3 above platforms can be found <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Server/Install|here]]</nowiki>. 

== Upgrade ==

=== From 11.10 to 12.04 ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu 11.10 on a server system, follow the steps listed below:
# Install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package (if it is not already installed).
# Run <code>sudo do-release-upgrade</code> to launch the upgrade tool.
# Follow the on-screen instructions. 

Note that the server upgrade is now more robust and will utilize GNU screen and automatically re-attach in case of dropped connection problems, for example.

=== From 10.04 to 12.04 ===

It is generally recommended that users of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS wait until the first point release, due in July, before upgrading.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on a server system before then, follow the steps listed below:

# Ensure you're up to date with latest updates for Ubuntu 10.04:
## <code> sudo apt-get update </code>
## <code> sudo apt-get upgrade </code>
# Install update-manager-core if it is not already installed:
## <code> sudo apt-get install update-manager-core </code>
# Edit /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades and set Prompt=lts. Note: The minumum contents of /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades should be:
<pre>
[DEFAULT]
Prompt=lts
</pre>
# Launch the upgrade tool:
## <code> sudo do-release-upgrade -d </code>
## Follow the on-screen instructions.

At the end of the upgrade process you will be required to restart the server in order to boot into the new kernel. If you do not have access to the console of the system you are upgrading, you may need to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and change the default boot kernel to the newly installed 12.04 kernel. If this step is not performed your server may attempt to boot into the 10.04 LTS kernel and will hang.

NOTE: Upgrading Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud, featuring Eucalyptus from 10.04 to this release is discouraged as 12.04 doesn't include eucalyptus, meaning there is not a valid upgrade path.  It is recommended to continue with the supported 10.04 release, or convert to Ubuntu Cloud Infrastructure, featuring OpenStack.

=== From other release ===

Users of other Ubuntu releases need to upgrade first to 11.10, and then to 12.04.

For further information on upgrading to 12.04, please see the <nowiki>[[Precise upgrade instructions]]</nowiki>. 

== Known Issues ==

=== Applications ===

* OpenStack: Nova API does not listen on IPv6 (Bug:850443)

* Squid: squid (v2) has been deprecated in favor of squid3.  The existing squid package provides a transitional package that will upgrade to squid3.  Some config options may not be supported and manual migration of configuration is required.  Previous squid.conf is preserved at /etc/squid/squid.conf after upgrade.  See the squid 3.1.19 release notes for more information about supported options and syntax:
** http://squidcache.cybermirror.org/squid/squid-3.1.19-RELEASENOTES.html#ss6.1

* Users who are using bonded network interfaces may experience a race condition on upgrade which can stop the bonded interface coming up on boot. This may cause problems for those performing remote upgrades. (Bug:974218)
 

== Support Terms ==

* 5 years, Long Term Support.
