{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[..-|< Back to Brainstorm page]]</nowiki>

'''SUMMARY''': we've starting to reach the limits with the current GUI toolkit of choice. While GTK serves its purpose well, it does not perform well in terms of multiple device support and a modern UI feel. We're investigating the best choice to use for the next Qreator release.

=== Comparison table ===

The comparison is based on the following toolkit versions:

** ''Gtk'' -- <code>3.0</code> via gobject introspection
** ''Qt + QML'' -- <code>4.8.3</code> via PySide 
** ''Ubuntu toolkit'' -- pure QML
** ''HTML5 / CSS3''  via webkit
** ''kivy''  -- <code>1.4.2</code> 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Criterion
| <:> ''Gtk''
| <:> ''Qt + QML''
| <:> ''Ubuntu toolkit''
| <:> ''HTML5 / CSS3''
| <:> ''kivy''
|-
| Fully documented
| <:> {X} [[[#n1|[1] ]]
| <:>  (./)
| <:>  (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
|-
| Desktop look and feel
| <:>  (./)
| <:> (./) / {X} [[[#n2|[2] ]]
| <:>  {X} [[[#n5|[5] ]]
| <:> {X}  [[[#n3|[3] ]]
| <:> {X}
|-
| Unity Integration
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:>  {X} [[[#n5|[5] ]]
| <:> {X} just via python
| <:> {X} just via python
|-
| Supports Python 3
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> ---
| <:> ?
| <:> {X}
|-
| Pythonic API
| <:> {X}
| <:> {X}
| <:> ---
| <:> ?
| <:> (./)
|-
| Maintainable
| <:>   ?
| <:>  ?
| <:> ?
| <:> ?
| <:>   ?
|-
| I18n support
| <:>   ?
| <:>  ?
| <:> (./)
| <:> ?
| <:> (./) via python
|-
| Animation of graphical content
| <:> (./) in clutter
| <:> (./) in QML
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
|-
| Animation of widgets
| <:> {X}
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
|-
| Multitouch support
| <:> {X} / (./) since 3.4
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./)
| <:> (./) [[[#n4|[4] ]]
| <:> (./)
|}

=== Notes ===

* [1] -- Only the C version is fully documented. The python bindings have to be guessed. A very good but also incomplete readthedocs tutorial is available.
* [2] -- Only QtWidgets share the look'n'feel of Ubuntu. QML does not.
* [3] -- Some widgets (forms) like buttons are rendered by most browsers in a conforming way.
* [4] -- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/DOM/Touch_events
* [5] -- not yet, but is planned

=== Detailed functionality requirements ===

Since the toolkit choice has been made: Ubuntu toolkit (QML), there are a couple of details to work out. The following is a list of item we have to tackle in order to recreate the current status in the new toolkit.

==== Qreator general UI ====

* Unity integration: '''notifications'''
* Unity integration: '''HUD'''

* System integration: '''clipboard'''
* System integration: '''drag & drop into different toolkits'''
* System integration: '''printing'''
* System integration: '''file I/O (save image to file)'''
 
* GUI elements: '''printer dialog'''

==== Wifi Datatype ====

* System integration: '''network-manager (dbus) interface'''

==== GeoLocation ====

* System integration: '''location / geoclue (dbus) interface'''

* GUI elements: '''map'''

==== SMS & Call ====

* System integration: '''contacts'''

==== Software Center ====

* System integration: '''software-center db'''
* System integration: '''file I/O (load icons)'''
* System integration: '''threading or several processes + IPC'''

* GUI elements: '''autocompletion popup'''

==== MECARD / VCard ====

* System integration: '''contacts'''

==== Text ====

==== URL ====
