{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== GB Hoyt ===
Hello, I am ~+G.+~ ~+Brandon+~ ~+Hoyt+~ and I am learning.  I currently reside in Lakeland, FL.  I like Ubuntu because of its ease of use coupled with wonderful people.  A friend in Orlando introduced me to it as being an easy to use distro that's good for people learning *nix.  He had a machine running 6.10 Server and he compiled the Enlightenment environment to run on it.  I have two Ubuntu boxes now, a laptop running 7.10 amd64, and a desktop running just plain ole 7.10.  My house has basically no attic, so running cables around can be a chore sometimes, thus both of my boxes are wirelessly connected to the internet.  

==== Hobbies ====
I am a licensed amateur radio operator, callsign '''KG4GVL'''.  My nickname comes from my love for low power operations ~-qrp in the ham radio world-~.  I use small home built radios, including one that fits inside an altoids candy tin.  Currently, my antenna is down though, so radio operations have been slim. 

I also enjoy photography, programming (ruby, python (still learning), Cpp), watching birds, off-road biking (and even mountain biking, but hey, this is Florida! ), and various other enterprises. 

==== Education ====
I graduated High School in 1996 from the Louisiana School for Math, Science, and the Arts.  For college, I received my BA degree from Florida Christian College in December 2000.  I am currently retooling, as it were, so I can get a better job.  I am studying computer programming, and network engineering, all in the hope that one day, I can make enough money to quit my job and help poor people.  

please be patient with me and my questions!  ;-)
Email: 
...

----
CategoryHomepage
