{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page provides basic installation instructions that should work on most GNU/Linux systems, and also has links to instructions for certain distributions.

=== Requirements ===

* A Python installation (tested with 2.5, but may also work on lower versions).
* Qt4 and it's Python bindings (PyQt4).
* The youtube-dl script, version 2007.03.27 or higher.

=== Running QtTube ===

If you have all the requirements installed (see the section "Detailed Instructions" for details on how to get them), <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/qttube/+download|download QtTube]]</nowiki>, extract it somewhere, enter it's folder and execute the "qttube" executable you will find in it (on the terminal, ''cd'' to the folder and type "./qttube"; with Nautilus, double-click it and choose ''"Run in a terminal"'').

=== Installing QtTube ===

QtTube doesn't provide a installations script yet (although it will, in future versions). However, you can install it manually following this instructions: <nowiki>[[QtTube/Installation/ManualInstall|Manual Installation]]</nowiki>.

Alternatively, you can also grab a .deb package from <nowiki>[[http://www.getdeb.net/app/QTTube|GetDeb]]</nowiki>.
