{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== New Features in Ubuntu Server ==

Ubuntu 12.10 ships the latest <nowiki>[[http://www.openstack.org|Openstack]]</nowiki> release, codenamed Folsom, improvements to <nowiki>[[https://maas.ubuntu.com/|MAAS]]</nowiki> and the latest Argonaut LTS release of <nowiki>[[http://ceph.com|Ceph]]</nowiki>, a highly scalable distributed object storage solution.

These technologies further position Ubuntu Server as the best OS for scale-out computing. Quality also had a strong focus with continuous integration, deployment and testing of upstream OpenStack commits and automated testing of all cloud images on Amazon EC2 from 12.04 forward.

=== OpenStack ===

* Ubuntu 12.10 includes the Folsom release of <nowiki>[[http://openstack.org/|Openstack]]</nowiki>. Openstack projects supported in 12.10 include: Nova, Glance, Swift, Keystone, Horizon, Cinder and Quantum. 
* Openstack components are deployable via Juju Charms.
* Openstack Folsom is also available for Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS in the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam/CloudArchive|Cloud Archive]]</nowiki>.
* ARM support added.

=== MAAS ===
* <nowiki>[[https://maas.ubuntu.com |Metal as a Service]]</nowiki> makes it easy to set up the hardware on which to deploy any service that needs to scale up and down dynamically.
** MAAS now supports ARM. This enables Juju use in ARM bare metal deployments.
** MAAS has undergone significant re-factoring for improved scalability. The reliance on Cobbler has been removed.
** MAAS has direct support for remote server management using IPMI.
** MAAS now supports SSL both for the Web UI and any API calls.
** MAAS allows you to automatically assign tags based on hardware information.
** MAAS tags can be used as constraints for juju deployment of services.
** MAAS can now handle DHCP configuration centrally for multiple cluster controllers.  

=== Juju ===

* Juju is now enabled in ARM bare metal deployments using MAAS. 
* The MAAS provider supports the standard set of constraints (arch, mem, cpu). You can also use tags as constraint criteria.
* The Juju local provider now uses the official Ubuntu Cloud Images, providing a more consistent experience with images used in public clouds such as Amazon EC2.
* <nowiki>[[https://juju.ubuntu.com/docs/policy.html|Charm Store policy]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/juju/2012-September/001896.html|Charm Store release policy]]</nowiki> defined as well as <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/juju/2012-July/001751.html|charm maintainers]]</nowiki> identified
* OpenStack provider updates for Folsom compatibility
* Serializer performance enhancements (when libyaml is present)
* Format: 2 support for charms (which eliminates usage of python-only formatting in favor of json)

=== Java ===

* Ubuntu 12.10 provides <nowiki>[[http://tomcat.apache.org|Apache Tomcat 7]]</nowiki> as the default, supported version of Tomcat. Existing installations of tomcat6 will continue to function; its recommended that users upgrade to the tomcat7 package as soon as possible.  
* <nowiki>[[http://lucene.apache.org/solr/|Apache Solr]]</nowiki> has been update to the latest 3.6.1 release.  Apache Solr provides a horizontally scalable indexing and search platform based on Apache Lucene.
* Jenkins has been updated to version 1.466.2, the latest LTS release from the Jenkins project.

=== Virtualisation ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/Main_Page|KVM]]</nowiki> has been update to version 1.2.0.
* <nowiki>[[http://lxc.sourceforge.net/|LXC]]</nowiki> has been updated to version 0.8.0, improvements include:
** Migration of containers from OpenVZ to LXC has been eased with the addition of hooks at various point in a container's lifetime.
** Customization of container security profiles has been eased by a reorganization of the apparmor profiles.
** Nesting of containers has been made easier with custom apparmor profiles.
** Improved container security with support for seccomp2 profiles and simple ecryptfs-backed containers.
** Improved container automation with a new Python LXC API.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.xen.org/|Xen]]</nowiki> has been updated to version 4.1.3.
* Libvirt has been updated to version 0.9.13, which includes support for Ceph RBD volume snapshots.
* Open vSwitch has been updated to version 1.4.3.

=== Storage ===
* <nowiki>[[http://ceph.com/|Ceph]]</nowiki> has been updated 0.48.2, the latest Argonaut LTS release.
** Ceph provides a highly scalable distributed object storage technology and has been tested with XFS and ext4 during this development cycle.  
** Packages are now provided for the <nowiki>[[http://ceph.com/docs/master/radosgw/|Ceph RADOS Gateway]]</nowiki>, a S3 and Swift compatible RESTful object storage solution backed by Ceph RADOS.
** gperftools support on x86 architectures for improved memory allocation performance.
** Automated deployment using Juju Charms.

=== Networking ===

* Ubuntu 12.10 features the <nowiki>[[http://floodlight.openflowhub.org/|Floodlight]]</nowiki> OpenFlow network controller. Floodlight can be used with Openstack Quantum to provide full network control in cloud deployments.

=== ARM Support ===

* Calxeda's !EnergyCore ECX-1000 ("highbank") joins Marvell's ARMADA XP in the lineup of supported server-grade ARM !SoCs on Ubuntu Server. Support has also been back-ported to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.

=== Configuration Management ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.opscode.com/chef/|Chef]]</nowiki> 10.12.0 has been re-introduced to Ubuntu in-conjunction with OpsCode.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.puppetlabs.com/|Puppet]]</nowiki> has been updated to version 2.7.18.

=== Cloud Images ===

* <nowiki>[[http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/query2|Query2]]</nowiki>, a new meta-data service for describing the Ubuntu Cloud Images and their availability, has been made available for testing and comment.  This new meta-data service provides a verbose, machine-readable JSON formatted file that exhaustively describes the currently available Ubuntu Cloud Images hosted on cloud-images.ubuntu.com and official Ubuntu images in public clouds (currently limited to Amazon EC2).  The "Query2" data format is open for comment, and as such may change.
* Additional Amazon AWS tools <nowiki>[[http://aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/|Autoscaling]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/|Cloudwatch]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[http://aws.amazon.com/elasticache/|ElastiCache]]</nowiki> now available. 
* cloud-init support for config drive v2 added.
* the default user 'ubuntu' is no longer pre-baked into the images, but is now created by cloud-init. Further, using cloud-init cloud-config, users can be created at launch time, including the option of user-less instances.
=== Other ===

* A new package 'overlayroot' added as part of cloud-initramfs-tools allows easy utilization overlayfs for the root filesystem.  This allows you to boot with changes made to filesystems to be diverted to another filesystem.  The second filesystem can be encrypted, a tmpfs, or another disk.  This is useful as a cloud-guest and is used by MAAS's ephemeral environment.
* Due to a binary naming issue between the node and nodejs packages, nodejs now ships with its binary installed to /usr/bin/nodejs. Users of nodejs applications sourced from outside of the Ubuntu distribution should either use the nodejs-legacy package (which continues to provide /usr/bin/node) or migrate their applications to use the /usr/bin/nodejs interpreter. 
 
 
== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

=== Download ===

Ubuntu Server 12.10 images can be downloaded from a location near you:
* http://www.ubuntu.com/download

The images can also be found at: 
* http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.10/ (Ubuntu Server) 
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.10/release/source/ (source)
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/12.10/ (Ubuntu Netboot)

=== System Requirements ===

* Your server should have a recommend minimum 256 MB of RAM and 1 GB of disk space. 
* The i386 image has a recommended maximum of 16GB of RAM, and a maximum of 8 CPU cores are exposed.

=== Netboot ARM Server Images ===

The ARM Netboot images allow you to bootstrap <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Server|Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki> on supported hardware.
There are three supported images available, each for a different type of computer:
* Calxeda ECX-1000 Highbank (Hard-Float) netboot server image
* Marvell Armada-XP (Hard-Float) netboot server image
* Texas Instruments OMAP4 (Hard-Float) netboot server image

Detailed installations instructions for the 3 above platforms can be found <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Server/Install|here]]</nowiki>. 

== Upgrade ==

=== From 12.04 to 12.10 ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 on a server system, follow the steps listed below:
# Install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package (if it is not already installed).
# Update /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades to specify to allow upgrades to a 'norma' release instead of just a new 'lts' release.
# Run <code>sudo do-release-upgrade</code> to launch the upgrade tool.
# Follow the on-screen instructions. 

Note that the server upgrade is now more robust and will utilize GNU screen and automatically re-attach in case of dropped connection problems, for example.

=== From other release ===

Users of other Ubuntu releases need to upgrade first to <nowiki>[[Precise upgrade instructions|12.04]]</nowiki>, and then to 12.10.

For further information on upgrading to 12.10, please see the <nowiki>[[Quantal upgrade instructions]]</nowiki>. 

== Known Issues ==

=== OpenStack ===
* The configuration format used by nova.conf has migrated from gflags (--option=value) to .ini (option=value) syntax.  Packaging will use Nova utilities to convert existing config files to the new format, configuration management users take note. 

* Deployments that host nova-network on the same node as nova-compute will encounter issues preventing instances from obtaining IPs using DHCP.  This is caused by vhost_net enablement by default on newer kernels and can be worked around by adding a single iptables rule. (Bug:1029430) 

* The default web root for the Horizon dashboard has moved from / to /horizon. (Bug:1020313) 

* The default install of Openstack should be used on a protected network, as many components use http (non-SSL) as a transport, and therefore subject to security concerns. (Bug:978963)

=== MAAS ===

* If you are using juju to deploy to an ARM-based MAAS cluster, you need to use the `--constraints arch=arm` option to the `bootstrap` command. Juju by default will request an `amd64` node which wouldn't be available in this case.

* The following issues will be fixed in a zero-day stable release update:
** With some hardware, MAAS incorrectly registers the memory attributes of nodes during commissioning.  The result of this is that when deploying services using juju with a memory constraint, MAAS will not be able to provide a suitable node. (Bug:1064638)
** The MAAS dns package (maas-dns) currently changes the default bind rndc key which breaks the standard bind9 init scripts. (Bug:1064638)
** MAAS DNS configuration is invalid after a node gets enlisted if a custom node name is not provided. (Bug:1066958)
** The MAAS region worker by default connects to the wrong queue. This will cause a warning message about "The region controller does not know whether any boot images have been imported yet..." to not disappear in the MAAS Web Interface. If MAAS also controls DNS, this will not work either. Please see Bug:1067929 for a workaround.
 
=== Other ===

* Users who are using bonded network interfaces may experience a race condition on upgrade which can stop the bonded interface coming up on boot. This may cause problems for those performing remote upgrades. (Bug:974218)
* Users who install Ubuntu Server on a Panda using encrypted partitions will not be able to use usb-attached keyboards to enter the password for unlocking the disk on boot.  The password can be entered by enabling serial console and entering it from there. (Bug:1066376)
 
== Support Terms ==

* 18 months.
