{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

Welcome to Quantal Quetzal Alpha 3 image set, which will in time
become the 12.10 release. 

Pre-releases of Quantal Quetzal are *not* encouraged for anyone 
needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running 
into occasional, even frequent breakage.  They are, however, 
recommended for Ubuntu developers and those who want to help in 
testing, reporting, and fixing bugs as we work towards getting 
this release ready.    

Alpha 3 is the third in a series of milestone images that will be
released throughout the Quantal development cycle, in addition to
our daily development images.  The Alpha images are known to be 
reasonably free of showstopper CD build or installer bugs, while 
representing a very recent snapshot of Quantal.  You can download 
them here:

   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/quantal/alpha-3/ 
   (Ubuntu Desktop, Server)

Additional images are also available at:

   http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/quantal/alpha-3/ 
   (Ubuntu Server Cloud)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/quantal/ 
   (Ubuntu Netboot) 
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-3/
   (Kubuntu)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-3/
   (Edubuntu)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-3/
   (Lubuntu)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-3/
   (Xubuntu)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/quantal/alpha-3/
   (Ubuntu Studio)

Alpha 3 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing.  This is an early set of images, so you should expect
some bugs.  For a more detailed description of the changes in the Alpha
3 release and the known bugs (which can save you the effort of reporting
a duplicate bug, or help you find proven workarounds), please see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
Quantal, we suggest that you subscribe initially to the
ubuntu-devel-announce list. This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a
week) carrying announcements of approved specifications, policy changes,
alpha releases, and other interesting events.

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

Kate Stewart, on behalf of the Ubuntu release team

</pre>
