{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

The Ubuntu developers are moving quickly to bring you the absolute latest and greatest software the Open Source community has to offer. The Quantal Quetzal Alpha 2 Release of Ubuntu 12.10 is a '''developer snapshot''' to give you a very early glance at the next version of Ubuntu.

== Get Ubuntu 12.10 ==
=== Upgrading from Ubuntu 12.04 ===

Please read the known issues, before trying this.  To upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 on a desktop system, press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager -d" (without the quotes) into the command box. Update Manager should open up and tell you: New distribution release '12.10' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.  

To upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 on a server system: install the <code>update-manager-core</code> package if it is not already installed; launch the upgrade tool with the command <code>sudo do-release-upgrade -d</code>; and follow the on-screen instructions. Note that the server upgrade will utilize GNU screen and automatically re-attach in case of e.g. dropped connection problems.

=== Download the Alpha 2 ===

This release is for '''developers only'''. The Ubuntu Desktop images are now bigger than a standard CD, and you should use a USB for installation. 

You can download Alpha 2 ISOs from:

http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu Desktop and Server) <<BR>>
http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu Cloud Server) <<BR>>
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Kubuntu) <<BR>>
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Lubuntu) <<BR>>
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Edubuntu DVD) <<BR>>
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu Studio) <<BR>>
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-2/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>>
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/quantal/ (Ubuntu Netboot) <<BR>>

== New features in Quantal ==

Please see the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/quantal/+specs|Quantal blueprint list]]</nowiki> for details.

Please test and report any bugs you find:

  http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs

=== Updated Packages ===

As with every new release, packages--applications and software of all kinds--are being updated at a rapid pace. Many of these packages came from an automatic sync from <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>'s unstable branch; others have been explicitly pulled in for 12.10 Quantal Quetzal.

For a list of all packages being accepted for 12.10 Quantal Quetzal, please subscribe to quantal-changes: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/quantal-changes 

==== Linux kernel 3.5 ====
Quantal Alpha-2 includes the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.5.0-2.2|3.5.0-2.2 Ubuntu kernel]]</nowiki> which was based on the <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.0/testing/linux-3.5-rc4.tar.bz2|v3.5-rc4 upstream Linux kernel]]</nowiki>. This is an update from the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/3.4.0-5.11|3.4.0-5.11 Ubuntu kernel]]</nowiki> which shipped in the Quantal Alpha-1 release and was based on the <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v3.x/linux-3.4.tar.bz2|v3.4 upstream Linux kernel]]</nowiki>.  Other notable changes with the Quantal Alpha-2 kernel include a rework of the brcmsmac regulatory support, an extensive config review for the highbank kernel flavor, and misc bug fixes.  As with the Quantal Alpha-1 release, the Quantal Alpha-2 kernel continues to include the transitioning of the i386 generic-pae flavor to become the generic flavor offering, collapsing of the virtual flavor back into the generic flavor, and homogenizing of the entire linux-meta package.

==== Python 3.0 ====

For 12.10, we intend to ship only <nowiki>[[http://docs.python.org/release/3.0.1/whatsnew/3.0.html|Python 3]]</nowiki> with the Ubuntu desktop image, not Python 2.  Alpha-2 continues this process.

If you have your own programs based on Python 2, fear not!  Python 2 will continue to be available (as the `python` package) for the foreseeable future.  However, to best support future versions of Ubuntu you should consider porting your code to Python 3.  <nowiki>[[Python-3]]</nowiki> has some advice and resources on this.

==== Filesystem Stack ====

The following significant filesystem packages have been updated:

* '''e2fsprogs''' updated to 1.42.4 which includes many fixes including those targeting large filesystems > 16TB
* '''mdadm''' updated to 3.2.5 with Common raid Disk Data Format (DDF) and <nowiki>[[http://www.intel.com/design/chipsets/matrixstorage_sb.htm|Intel Matrix]]</nowiki> RAID formats enabled and improved udev rules
* '''autofs''' updated to 2012-06-01 from 5.0.6 release tag, with many bugfixes and the package name transition '''autofs5 -> autofs'''
* '''btrfs-tools''' update to 2012-03-28 snapshot bringing basic btrfsck support and many fixes

=== General ===

With the Ubuntu Quantal release the ARM desktop images are now switched from preinstalled to live images again as known from other architectures. This greatly improves the flexibility for users and with the installer defaulting to a USB target device it will also result in better performing installs than having the OS run from an SD card.

Until Ubuntu 11.10, the Unix group for administrators with `root` privileges through sudo had been `admin`. Starting with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS, it is now `sudo`, for compatibility with Debian and sudo itself. However, for backwards compatibility, `admin` group members are still recognized as administrators.

Automatic Apport crash reporting has been enabled by default again to catch problems early on. It now <nowiki>[[http://www.piware.de/2011/11/apport-1-90-client-side-duplicate-checking/|checks for duplicates on the client side]]</nowiki>, which will avoid uploading debug data and creating Launchpad bug reports unnecessarily in many cases now.

=== Ubuntu ===

<nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/|Firefox]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/|Thunderbird]]</nowiki> got upated to the the current beta channel versions.

GTK got updated to the new <nowiki>[[http://developer.gnome.org/gtk3/3.5/|3.5 series]]</nowiki> which unblocked some of the GNOME 3.5 updates.

The <nowiki>[[http://www.x.org/wiki/|Xorg]]</nowiki> stack saw some updates as well including bug fixes and a new version of the ati driver.

=== Ubuntu Server ===

We are continuing to trial the removal of i386 Ubuntu Server CD image.  This means that the primary supported installation method is AMD64, the 64-bit release (X86_64). However, other supported installations mechanisms for i386, such as mini.iso and netboot are still supported, which are an initial minimal download; and install directly from the network. i386 images for Alpha is also available, but is not declared as part of the Alpha 2 release. Feedback is most appreciated, if this causes issues for particular hardware.

Other updates for 12.10:
* Images for the <nowiki>[[http://ncommander.blogspot.com/2012/06/announcement-of-calxeda-highbank-images.html|Calxeda Highbank]]</nowiki> platform available for <nowiki>[[http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/quantal/main/installer-armhf/current/images/highbank/netboot/|download]]</nowiki>. Installation instructions <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/Server/Install|here]]</nowiki>.
* Ubuntu archive mirrors <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-cloud-announce/2012-June/000026.html|moving to S3]]</nowiki>.
* With help from Bryan !McLellan and <nowiki>[[http://www.opscode.com/|OpsCode]]</nowiki> Chef 0.10.x is available.
* Easier support for per-container apparmor policies in LXC.
* General package updates and debian syncs, including Ceph-0.47.2, mysql-5.5.25.
* Openstack Components have been updated to track the upstream <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/openstack/+milestone/folsom-2|Folsom-2 milestone]]</nowiki>.

=== Kubuntu ===

* Inclusion of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/kde/+announcement/10186|KDE SC 4.9 Beta 2]]</nowiki> for testing
* <nowiki>[[http://community.kde.org/Real-Time_Communication_and_Collaboration|Kde-telepathy]]</nowiki> replaces Kopete for IM
* <nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/LightDM|Lightdm]]</nowiki> replaces KDM as login manager
* <nowiki>[[http://www.calligra-suite.org/|Calligra Suite]]</nowiki> replaces LibreOffice - this is experimental at the moment
* The image scaning application ''<nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/applications/graphics/skanlite/|skanlite]]</nowiki>'' and the webcam tool ''<nowiki>[[http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=111750|Kamoso]]</nowiki>'' have been added to the seed
* Language-selector dropped, patch added to kcm locale to install language packs
* <nowiki>[[https://projects.kde.org/projects/extragear/base/wacomtablet|Kde-config-tablet]]</nowiki> added for testing Wacom/pen tablet configuration

=== Xubuntu ===

* Uses <nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org/about/news/?post=1335571200|Xfce 4.10]]</nowiki> (up from 4.8 in previous release)
* Updated applications, including <nowiki>[[http://www.gimp.org/|GIMP 2.8]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://live.gnome.org/gthumb/|gThumb 3.0.1]]</nowiki>

=== Edubuntu ===

* <nowiki>[[http://nepomuk.kde.org/|Nepomuk]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://community.kde.org/KDE_PIM/Akonadi|Akonadi]]</nowiki> icons are now hidden from menus
* Langpacks have been moved to outside of the live image, a langpack installer is being written for the live image that installs the langpacks from the package pool
* The wallpaper selection has been updated
* Although no ARM release is made for Alpha2, a test build has been done to confirm that Edubuntu packages work on ARM. Stellarium has been dropped in favour of <nowiki>[[http://edu.kde.org/kstars/|Kstars]]</nowiki>.

=== Lubuntu ===

* No Lubuntu specific packages have had significant updates in the last month.

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

* Xfce updated to version 4.10 (based off of Xubuntu)
* Kernel (lowlatency) is now of version 3.5

== Known issues ==

As is to be expected, at this '''very early''' stage of the release process, there are some significant known bugs that developers may run into with the Quantal Alpha 2 Release.  The ones we know about at this point (and some of the workarounds), are documented here so you don't need to spend time reporting these bugs again: 
  
=== Boot, installation and post-install ===

* When using the manual partitioner: /dev/sdb (installation media) is selected by default as device for boot loader installation. (Bug:987818)
* Ubiquity displays scrollbars inside of slideshow. (Bug:1008717)
* Ubiquity radio buttons look like tickboxes. (Bug: ? )
* The new ARM desktop live images are having issues detecting monitors on boot. The work around is to leaving the monitor unplugged until most of the bootprocess is done, plugging in the monitor then shows the 1024x768 fallback mode of the driver.  Alternately including video=HDMI-A-1:1280x800@60 in the bootargs, can work as well. (Bug:1010009)
* The omap images fail to boot. (Bug:1010024)

=== Migration ===

* Upgrade from Precise Desktop with update-manager fails with "can't load !DistUpgradeViewGtk (No module named vte)" (Bug:1009226) The command line version of the upgrader works correctly (do-release-upgrade -d).
* In some cases, update-manager crashes with ImportError in __main__: No module named UpdateManager.UpdateManage (Bug:1013276)

=== Graphics and Display ===

* On systems with an ATI Radeon 9200 graphics card the system will boot to a black screen. As a work around edit the kernel command line in the boot loader and add "nomodeset". (Bug:725580)

* On some systems, gnome-settings-daemon crashed with SIGSEGV in xft_settings_set_xsettings(). (Bug:948347)

=== Desktop ===

* Nautilus is missing the Preferences menu item. (Bug:999827)

* On Power PC architecture systems the Firefox browser is not available. (Bug:1008975, Bug:987421) It is possible to add Firefox manually.

* The GTK updates created some theming issues (incorrect colors in some indicators)

=== Kernel ===

* Fujitsu Siemens Amilo M 7400 and Maxdata 7000DX wireless RF kill handling triggers a kernel panic preventing wireless from operating correctly. This may be worked around by editing your kernel command line and adding "noexec=off". (Bug:979253)

* Some EFI systems fail to boot in EFI mode, BIOS mode is advised in these situations. (Bug:721576)

=== Ubuntu Server ===

* Unexpected prompt for nameserver IP when using DHCP occurs. (Bug:1018271)
* cobbler fails to install with error code 1. (Bug:1001846)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cobbler/+bug/1001846/comments/9|Patch]]</nowiki> available for testing.

=== Kubuntu ===

* update-manager testing has not been tried with Kubuntu yet, and is not recommended at this time.

* OEM install not working and no initial selection during first live boot, "ubiquity-dm not working in kubuntu quantal" (Bug:1018485)
   

=== Xubuntu ===

* All applications using Gtk3 currently have some mismatched colors in menus and buttons because of a bug in the Unico engine (Bug:1016713).

=== Lubuntu ===

* Some iso's for A1 are over sized for CD use. (Bug:1009896)
* Manual partitionning is not working if you want to modify an existing partition. (Bug:1018533). To workaround the problem, change the theme to "Raleigh" before making the change in Ubiquity.
* Installation will fail if you want to install grub on anything else that the first drive (sda or sda1) (Bug:1015880)

----

'''For a listing of more known issues, please refer to the Quantal Quetzal <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/quantal/+bugs|bug tracker]]</nowiki> in Launchpad.'''
 
== Reporting bugs ==

It should come as no surprise that this Alpha 2 release of Quantal Quetzal contains other bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve the quality of future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Participate in Ubuntu ==

These images were able to be made available to you thanks to the help of our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/TechnicalOverview/Alpha1/Testers|QA Community]]</nowiki>

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce
