{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== New Features in Ubuntu Studio 12.10 ==
Ubuntu Studio is the Ubuntu flavour designed for content creation.

It's produced as a DVD image that can also be converted to an USB stick and includes support for most languages by default.

Improved Interface:
* A new web page is out. The help button on the main menu points there.
* Task Manager has been switched to System Monitor for better memory use display.
* A main menu tool has been added to setting to allow the user to change their menu. 
* Add/fix text plymouth theme for those video cards that won't see graphics so it says Ubuntu studio.
* Set up Software Center menu items for our workflows.
* Fixed submenu icons for accessories, education and network.

New software include:
* Xfce updated to version 4.10 (based off of Xubuntu)
* Kernel (lowlatency) is now of version 3.5 

=== Ubuntu Studio Applications ===
* The menu has been fixed moving audio production tools out of Media Playback.
* A MIDI router and MIDI tools menu have been added.
* Add qmidiroute to audio workflow to cover missing functionality 
* Added open-clip-art package to graphics seed
* Move mixer applications from media playback menu to audio menu.
* Nautilus is default file manager for everything now 

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu Studio is now simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Ubuntu Studio with the Ubuntu Studio DVD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Ubuntu Studio 12.10 images can be downloaded from:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/12.10/release/ (UbuntuStudio) 

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu Studio 12.10 is 768 MB of memory.  It is highly recommended that you have 2GB or more memory though so that the system will perform much better.  More information about other recommended hardware on the new Ubuntu Studio website when it is released.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Ubuntu Studio 12.04 ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu Studio 12.04, press Alt+F2 and type in "update-manager" (without the quotes) into the command box. Update Manager should open up and display following message: "New distribution release '12.10' is available. Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions". 

Since the upgrade does not include the new "photography" and "publishing" metas, so if you want the photography and publishing packages in your upgrade, please install them manually after upgrade by typing "sudo apt-get install ubuntustudio-meta-photography ubuntustudio-meta-publishing" in your terminal.

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Ubuntu Studio releases need to upgrade first to 12.04, and then to 12.10.

For further information on upgrading to 11.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades| Ubuntu Precise upgrade instructions ]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

=== Graphics and Display ===

* Proprietary drivers are now installed using software-properties-gtk (Software Sources), under the tab "Additional Drivers".

=== Applications ===

== Support ==

* Ubuntu Studio 12.10 is supported for 18 months. 
* Security and bugfix updates for Ubuntu Studio are provided by the Ubuntu Studio Team and Community
* Support via email can be found at the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-studio-users|Ubuntu Studio Users Mailing List]]</nowiki>.
* Support via IRC can be found in the #ubuntustudio channel on the freenode network
