{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

These release notes for Ubuntu 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal) provide an overview of the release and document the known issues with Ubuntu 12.10 and its flavors.

== Product Overview ==

The overview of each of product included with this release, as well as the installation, upgrade, and known issues can be found by following these links:   
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuDesktop|Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuServer|Ubuntu Server]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Core|Ubuntu Core]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Edubuntu|Edubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Kubuntu|Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Lubuntu|Lubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-UbuntuStudio|Ubuntu Studio]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Xubuntu|Xubuntu]]</nowiki>

== Reporting bugs ==

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve the quality of future releases. Please <nowiki>[[http://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|report bugs using the tools provided]]</nowiki>.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Ubuntu Project Contributors ==

Ubuntu 12.10 would not be possible without the contributions of our 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-Developers|developers]]</nowiki>, 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-Testers|testers]]</nowiki>, 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-ReleaseTeam|release team members]]</nowiki>, 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-DocsTeam|documentation writers]]</nowiki>, 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-Translators|translators]]</nowiki>, 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-BugImprovers|bug analysts]]</nowiki> and our 
<nowiki>[[QuantalQuetzal-ReleaseNotes-Credits-BugReporters| users who take the time to file bugs]]</nowiki>.   
Ubuntu is based on <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.kernel.org|the Linux Kernel]]</nowiki> and our many other excellent upstream projects.  Thank you!

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu in the future, please take a look at the list of ways you can <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|participate]]</nowiki>.

== More information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce
