{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== New Features in Kubuntu ==

This release of Kubuntu is a 'regular' release, offering support for 18 months, not a Long Term Support release.
It does introduce new <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/feature-tour|features]]</nowiki>.

KDE SC (Software Compilation) has been updated  to version 4.9.2, which brings a number of minor fixes and updates. More details can be found  <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/announcements/announce-4.9.2.php|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Plasma Desktop ===

* Highlights for <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/announcements/4.9/plasma.php|Plasma Workspaces]]</nowiki> include substantial improvements to the Dolphin File Manager, Konsole X Terminal Emulator, Activities, and the KWin Window Manager.

=== KDE Applications ===

* New and improved <nowiki>[[http://www.kde.org/announcements/4.9/applications.php|KDE Applications]]</nowiki> include Okular, Kopete, KDE PIM, educational applications and games.

=== Kubuntu Applications ===

* Calligra Applications include <nowiki>[[http://www.kexi-project.org/|Kexi]]</nowiki> for desktop DBMS solutions and <nowiki>[[http://krita.org/|Krita]]</nowiki> for painting.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.libreoffice.org/|LibreOffice]]</nowiki> has been upgraded to Version 3.6.2.2.
* <nowiki>[[http://community.kde.org/Real-Time_Communication_and_Collaboration|KDE Telepathy]]</nowiki> has been upgraded to Version 0.5.1, replacing the <nowiki>[[http://kopete.kde.org/|Kopete]]</nowiki> Instant Messenger.
* <nowiki>[[http://rekonq.kde.org/|Rekonq]]</nowiki> has been upgraded to Version 1.1.
* <nowiki>[[http://amarok.kde.org/|Amarok]]</nowiki> has been upgraded to Version 2.6.0.
* <nowiki>[[http://owncloud.org/changelog|OwnCloud]]</nowiki> has been upgraded to Version 4 with a host of new features including shared calendars, easier sharing of files and a more shiny photo gallery. New in this release is ''owncloud-client'', a desktop app to sync your folders to your OwnCloud.

=== Kubuntu Active ===

* Plasma Active is the tablet remix of Kubuntu.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Kubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Kubuntu with the Desktop CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Kubuntu 12.10 images can be downloaded from:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/12.10/release/ (Kubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-active/releases/12.10/release/ (Kubuntu Active) 

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Kubuntu 12.04 is 512 MB of memory for Kubuntu.   Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card. If your computer has only the minimum amount of memory, the installation process will take longer than normal; however, it will complete successfully, and the system will perform adequately once installed.

Systems with less memory may be able to select "Install Kubuntu" from the boot menu to run just the installer, rather than the whole desktop, or may be able to use the alternate install CD.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Kubuntu 12.04 ===

To <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/QuantalUpgrades/Kubuntu|upgrade from Kubuntu 12.04]]</nowiki> on a desktop system, run "muon-updater" and upgrade to the latest packages, reboot the computer and you will be prompted to upgrade at next login.

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Kubuntu releases need to upgrade first to 12.04, and then to 12.10.

For further information on upgrading to 11.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades/Kubuntu| Kubuntu Precise upgrade instructions ]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

=== Kubuntu issues ===

* (Bug:1038522) Manual partitioning in installer crashes when handling many partitions
** A bug prevents installation from happening on some hard disks with over 10 partitions
* (Bug:475530) KIMPanel is not set up
** Some manual setup for input methods is requires
* (Bug:1056946) Krita crashed on opening "Settings > Configure Krita" 
** Krita crashes with some graphics drivers, using proprietary drivers will fix it
* (Bug:1066861) Plasma-netbook freezes after clicking on 'Page one' in the panel
** Plasma Netbook freezes when swapping pages, a fix is being worked on
* (Bug:459476) Translations not included in kubuntu-docs
** This package is expected to be updated soon
* (Bug:1061073) Desktop effects are slow and desktop corruption using mesa 9
** Workaround by downgrading to old mesa packages
* (Bug:1068305) Quassel channel switching extremely slow on first access to channel
** Workaround by not using regular expression ignore rules.

== Support ==

* 18 months. 
* <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/support|Contact information]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/contact-us|Contact Us]]</nowiki>
