{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== New Features in Ubuntu ==

There is no longer a traditional CD-sized image, DVD or alternate image, but rather a single 800MB Ubuntu image that can be used from USB or DVD.  Users who previously installed using LVM or full-disk encryption via the alternate CD will find that these installation targets are supported by the consolidated image in 12.10.

With the Ubuntu 12.10, ARM desktop images are now standard Ubuntu live images as known from other architectures. To install these images you should have a USB disk as target device.

=== Desktop Interface ===

** Update Manager has been streamlined and renamed Software Updater.  It also now checks for updates when launched.  Additionally, the release upgrader portion of Update Manager has become its own package - ubuntu-release-upgrader.

** A new <nowiki>[[http://www.x.org/wiki/|Xorg]]</nowiki> stack has been introduced which includes xserver 1.13 candidate versions, mesa 9.0, and updated X libs and drivers.  The new xserver provides improved multiseat support, better smooth scrolling, and a large variety of bug fixes.  There is a new version of the ATI driver, and the proprietary -nvidia driver now supports the RANDR standard for monitor configuration.  

** Unity and Compiz now works on hardware supporting only GLES instructions, releasing unity to a wide range of armel machines.

** Unity was updated to version 6.8 including support for:
*** Addition of 'More Suggestions' category which delivers commercial content to the Dash via the 'Unity Shopping Lens'
*** Numerous fixes and refinements to the dash
*** Option to prevent any network connection from the dash in the privacy gnome control center panel.
*** Support addition of webapps in the launcher by default (including Amazon & Ubuntu One Music stores)
*** An updated indicator-messages including a new <nowiki>[[http://developer.ubuntu.com/resources/platform/api/12-10/#messaging_menu|libmessaging-menu api]]</nowiki> (deprecating the old libindicate library)
*** All launcher icons (except the BFB and Trash) should now be movable
*** Added the ability to unlock removable-storage icons from the launcher to de-clutter it
*** When in spread mode (Super+W) it's possible to close windows by clicking the close button revealed when hovering over them
*** Gwibber lens now features preview support in the dash
*** Webapps can now trigger package downloads where required by compliant websites visited by the user
*** Additional icons have been added to the filesystem lens to enable dragging and dropping filesystems (such as USB sticks) into the launcher
*** Previews in the video lens now show details for remote Amazon videos 
*** Unity and unity-panel have been ported to atk-bridge for accessibility

* Accessibility is turned on by default.

* Ubuntu Medium font has been included.

* The extra "launchpad integration" menu items which used to be added to the help menus have been dropped as they were not useful to most users and creating confusion.

* The login greeter was updated:
** Support for logging into remote desktops via RDP has been added, making it easier to use Ubuntu as a thin client
** Network status is now displayed in the top panel
** General visual refresh, with more space for long names and a better looking session chooser

=== Desktop Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.libreoffice.org/|LibreOffice]]</nowiki> has been updated to 3.6.2.  It no longer needs a separate plugin to provide built-in menubar & HUD support.

* <nowiki>[[https://live.gnome.org/|GNOME]]</nowiki> has been updated to the new 3.6 version for most of its components. Read the GNOME 3.6 <nowiki>[[http://library.gnome.org/misc/release-notes/3.6/|Release Notes]]</nowiki> to learn what's new and improved. A few highlights include:
** Empathy: the contact list in GNOME's messaging and chat application received a cleaner design with groups disabled by default and the contacts you talk to the most often ranked at the top of the list.
** Disks: improvements have been added including extra power management functions and the return of the benchmark feature.

* <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/|Firefox]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/|Thunderbird]]</nowiki> got updated to the current "16" version.

* Jockey has been deprecated in favor of a "Drivers" component in software-properties.

* The default partition mount point is now /media/''username''/ instead of /media/

=== Software Center ===

The new Software Center version improvements include:
* Faster loading and installing
* 3D Secure Support
* Banners can now open URLs
* Recommendation Feedback
* Integration with the Unity Search Plugin Previews

=== Ubuntu One ===

New features and improvements include:
* The Ubuntu One Music Store and Music Streaming Web App is accessible from the Launcher and provides integration with the sound menu and notifications in Ubuntu
* The Ubuntu One Control Panel now includes a Shared links tab which provides a list and way to search all shared links

=== WebApps ===

An introduction to the !WebApps feature can be found in this !YouTube video:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AUTNxi6b-hw&hd=1

It enables Ubuntu users to run online applications like Facebook, Twitter, Last.FM, Ebay and GMail direct from the desktop. Making web applications behave like their desktop counterparts improves the user experience dramatically; it’s faster and it reduces the proliferation of browser tabs and windows that can quickly make a desktop unmanageable.

The apps can even take advantage of Ubuntu’s new HUD system, making it even easier to navigate. So Web properties leap to the forefront of modern UI design, making for amazingly productive, fast and fluid applications on the desktop.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Ubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Ubuntu with the Desktop CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Ubuntu 12.10 images can be downloaded from a location near you:

** http://www.ubuntu.com/download

In addition they can also be found at the following locations:

** http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.10/ (Ubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/12.10/ (Ubuntu Netboot)

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Ubuntu 12.10 is 768 MB of memory and 5 GB of disk space for Ubuntu Desktop.   Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card. If your computer has only the minimum amount of memory, the installation process will take longer than normal; however, it will complete successfully, and the system will perform adequately once installed.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Ubuntu 12.04 LTS ===

To upgrade from Ubuntu 12.04 LTS on a desktop system
* Open Software Sources.
* Switch to the Updates tab and set ''Notify me of a new Ubuntu version'' to ''For any new version''.
* Run Update Manager
* It should display the following message: "New distribution release '12.10' is available".
* Click Upgrade and follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Ubuntu releases need to upgrade first to 12.04 LTS, and then to 12.10.

For further information on upgrading to 12.04 LTS, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades| upgrade instructions ]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

=== Desktop Interface ===

Please install available updates to ensure that the issues below will be fixed on your system.

* The file manager process, nautilus, is crashing sometimes.  (Bug:1053862)  Even if you have not opened a Files window, it manages the desktop background.  If nautilus crashes, restart it, with the 'Home Folder' button on the Launcher, or 'Files' in the Dash.  Even when you close that window, nautilus will be managing the desktop again.  Without it, you'll see some of these symptoms (Bug:952321) : 
** No icons on the desktop.
** No menu when right-clicking the desktop.
** When no application windows are showing (i.e. when the desktop, rather than any window, has the focus), important Unity keys like Super and Alt will not work.
** The file manager's quicklist will not show the usual bookmarks.

* On some NVidia cards, when using the proprietary driver, moving windows and other large screen updates causes some tearing. (Bug:600178)

* The system service to manage device color profiles is crashing on some systems. (Bug:1026520) 

=== Desktop Applications ===

* The mail client <nowiki>[[http://projects.gnome.org/evolution/|Evolution]]</nowiki> may delete folders and their contents as they are renamed or moved around in IMAP (and IMAP+) accounts. It is recommended to copy folders and contents before attempting to move or rename them. (Bug:957341)
* Libreoffice might get no menu when opening directly a document from the file manager (Nautilus) or the Unity dash (Bug:1064962)

=== Ubuntu One ===

* Users upgrading from 12.04 LTS may lose the Ubuntu One icon in the Launcher. The workaround is to open the Dash, search for "Ubuntu One", open the Ubuntu One Control Panel and lock the icon in the Launcher.

=== WebApps ===

** Chromium continues to prompt the user to install an app even after it has been installed. (Bug:1059456)

** After the user quits a Web app the icon is removed from the Launcher (Bug:1061056)

== Support ==

* 18 months.
