{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>

"There either is or is not, that’s the way things are." 
- Charles Dickens, Great Expectations

The 12.10 (Quantal Quetzal) Alpha 1 milestone image set "is" 
now released. ;)

Pre-releases of Quantal Quetzal are *not* encouraged for anyone 
needing a stable system or anyone who is not comfortable running 
into occasional, even frequent breakage.  They are, however, 
recommended for Ubuntu developers and those who want to help in 
testing, reporting, and fixing bugs as we work towards getting 
this release ready.    

Alpha 1 is the first in a series of milestone images that will be
released throughout the Quantal development cycle, in addition to
our daily development images.  The Alpha images are known to be 
reasonably free of showstopper CD build or installer bugs, while 
representing a very recent snapshot of Quantal.  You can download 
them here:

   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/quantal/alpha-1/ 
   (Ubuntu Desktop, Server, ARM)

Additional images are also available at:

   http://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/quantal/alpha-1/ 
   (Ubuntu Server Cloud)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-1/
   (Kubuntu)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-1/
   (Edubuntu)
   http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/quantal/alpha-1/
   (Lubuntu)

Alpha 1 includes a number of software updates that are ready for wider
testing.  This is quite an early set of images, so you should expect
some bugs.  For a more detailed description of the changes in the Alpha
1 release and the known bugs (which can save you the effort of reporting
a duplicate bug, or help you find proven workarounds), please see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/

If you're interested in following the changes as we further develop
Quantal, we suggest that you subscribe initially to the
ubuntu-devel-announce list. This is a low-traffic list (a few posts a
week) carrying announcements of approved specifications, policy changes,
alpha releases, and other interesting events.

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

Kate Stewart, on behalf of the Ubuntu release team

</pre>
