{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


There is no longer an alternate image, but rather a single standard CD image. Users who previously installed using LVM or full-disk encryption via the alternate CD will find that these installation targets are supported by the consolidated image in 12.10. 

== New Features in Xubuntu 12.10 ==

* Xubuntu now uses Xfce 4.10 (up from 4.8 in previous release)
* Completely rewritten offline documentation
* In the application menu, all settings-related launchers are now grouped under the Settings Manager
* Updated artwork, including new wallpaper, documentation looks and updates to LightDM, Greybird and Ubiquity slideshow

To learn more about Xubuntu, navigate to our website at <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/|xubuntu.org]]</nowiki>.

=== Notable bug fixes include ===
* No more window traces or "black on black" in installer

=== Xubuntu Community ===
In addition to all the updates and changes mentioned above, the Xubuntu team has worked hard on community  and marketing tasks. The Xubuntu website content has been updated thoroughly and Xubuntu now has several social media outlets. In addition, work has been done to be able to provide our users merchandise in the near future.

=== Xubuntu Applications ===

Some of the highlights of this release include:
* Catfish search engine, has been updated to version 0.4.0.2
* Parole, media player, has moved to new upstream version 0.3.0.3
* gThumb, image viewer and browser, has moved to version 3.0.1

More information, please see the <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/xubuntu-desktop|list of applications included in Xubuntu 12.10]]</nowiki>.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Xubuntu is now simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Xubuntu with the Desktop CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

As said before, alternate images are not available for Xubuntu 12.10. LVM, cryptsetup and manual partitioning options previously available with alternate only are now available with the desktop image. Those who need the RAID installation option should wait until future releases, as it will be added to the list as soon as possible.

=== Download ===

Xubuntu 12.10 images can be downloaded from:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/12.10/release/ (Xubuntu) 

=== System Requirements ===

Minimum system requirements for Xubuntu fall roughly between Ubuntu Server and Desktop:
* 512 MB of system memory (RAM)
* 5 GB of disk space
* Graphics card and monitor capable of 800*600 resolution 

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Xubuntu 12.04 ===
The update manager GUI will offer you 12.10 Xubuntu (it shows as Ubuntu, but updates Xubuntu); Alternatively, launch a Terminal and enter
<code>sudo do-release-upgrade</code>

== Known Issues ==

=== Applications ===
* The messaging indicator is not available for 12.10
* Duplicated partitions might be shown at Thunar sidebar and the desktop

== Support ==

Xubuntu 12.10 is an 18 month supported release.

For support, navigate to the <nowiki>[[http://xubuntu.org/help/|Help -section in the Xubuntu website]]</nowiki> for a full listing of methods to get help.
