{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then add @``SIG@ at the end of your line - trust us, it doesn't show up in the preview, only when you save your comment.'''
* '''Any serious issue should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as a bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Add your comments here! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki> 
* It's a pity that a known critical bug like <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer-updates/+bug/1032672|this]]</nowiki> is not listed under "Known Issues". -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dirk-heinrichs]]</nowiki> 
* I think what the Linux desktop sorely needs is a simple image editing application that can be used by anyone and has the features most people need. Krita and GIMP are overkills for the vast majority of users. Paint on Windows generally gets the job done for quickly cropping or annotated images, which is what most people on web forums and the like do. More advanced users can always find a higher-end editor, but a bare-bones editor is actually better for most due to its simplicity. And there is one such application for KDE 4 -- KolourPaint: http://kde.org/applications/graphics/kolourpaint/ . BTW, I'm not actually affiliated with KolourPaint, I just see the importance of a simple Paint-like program. I use Pinta on vanilla Ubuntu, not the GIMP because it gets the job done faster. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:yannanth]]</nowiki> 