{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



<pre>

  “Doing is a quantum leap from imagining. Thinking about swimming
   isn't much like actually getting in the water. Actually getting 
   in the water can take your breath away. The defense force inside 
   of us wants us to be cautious, to stay away from anything as 
   intense as a new kind of action. Its job is to protect us, and 
   it categorically avoids anything resembling danger. But it's 
   often wrong. Anything worth doing is worth doing too soon.”
       -  Barbara Sher

With this release, the development teams decided to dive in and focus on
introducing some of the new innovations we’ve been imagining for
the upcoming LTS cycle, and so are very pleased to be able to announce
the release of Ubuntu 12.10 for Desktop, Server, Cloud, and Core
products.

Codenamed "Quantal Quetzal", 12.10 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition
of integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies into a
high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Ubuntu 12.10 introduces innovations that bring together desktop and
cloud-based experiences, representing the next stage in the transition
to a multi-device, cloud-based world.  New Previews give large, clear
previews of content as it appears in the Dash search results, giving
users a quick way to get more information to help find what they are
looking for.  The new Web Apps feature makes frequently used web
applications available through the desktop.  A new remote log-in 
option now lets Ubuntu 12.10 be used as a thin client by businesses 
that want to virtualise their desktop applications and deliver them 
to users over the network.

Ubuntu Server 12.10 includes the Folsom release of OpenStack, 
alongside deployment and management tools that save devops teams 
time when deploying distributed applications - whether on private
clouds, public clouds, x86 or ARM servers, or on developer laptops.
Cloud builders now have access to two major new components: Cinder, 
for block storage and Quantum, a virtual networking API.  Ubuntu’s
Metal-as-a-Service (MAAS) bare-metal provisioning tool has been 
updated and now supports Calxeda hyperscale hardware based on ARM, 
so users can now quickly deploy services directly to bare-metal
clusters, whether they’re built on legacy hardware, new 
Ivy Bridge-based machines or the new ARM-based hardware.  

The Ubuntu desktop images have been consolidated to a single 
improved image with a size of 800MB.  This desktop image folds in 
the advanced partitioning options from the alternate installer 
(removing the need for alternate and DVD images) and introduces 
support for UEFI Secure Boot technology.  The Ubuntu Server image
remains as a CD sized image, but installs the base system from a
squashfs image for improved performance.

Read more about the new features of Ubuntu 12.10 in the following
press releases:

   http://www.canonical.com/content/ubuntu-server-1210-all-you-need-cloud 
   http://www.canonical.com/content/ubuntu-1210-breaks-down-barrier-between-pc-and-web

Maintenance updates will be provided for Ubuntu 12.10 for 18 months,
through April 2014.

Thanks to the efforts of the global translation community, Ubuntu
is now available in 42 languages.  For a list of available languages
and detailed translation statistics for these and other languages, see:

    http://people.canonical.com/~dpm/stats/ubuntu-12.10-translation-stats.html

The newest Kubuntu 12.10, Edubuntu 12.10, Xubuntu 12.10, Lubuntu 12.10
and Ubuntu Studio 12.10 are also being released today.  More details can
be found in their announcements:

   Kubuntu: http://kubuntu.org/news/12.10-release
   Xubuntu: http://xubuntu.org/news/12-10-release
   Edubuntu http://edubuntu.org/news/12.10-release
   Lubuntu: http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/12.10
   Ubuntu Studio:https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuStudio

To get Ubuntu 12.10
-------------------

In order to download Ubuntu 12.10, visit:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/download

Users of Ubuntu 12.04 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 12.10
via Update Manager. For further information about upgrading, see:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/upgrade

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free 
of charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats, workarounds for known issues, as well as more in-depth notes 
on the releaseitself. They are available at:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new
   http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/features

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug
but aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
   http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
   http://www.ubuntuforums.org
   http://askubuntu.com

Help Shape Ubuntu
-----------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list
of ways you can participate at:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/community/get-involved

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases. A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a
few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical
and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

   http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our
website listed below:

   http://www.ubuntu.com

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

   http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

On behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team,
Kate Stewart

</pre>

