{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then add @``SIG@ at the end of your line - trust us, it doesn't show up in the preview, only when you save your comment.'''
* '''Any serious issue should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as a bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Overall this looks like a very promising release. I think lightDM is not mature enough to be used as a KDM replacement, as it contains several annoying bugs including the following one : https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/1058498 and does not look as shiny as KDM currently. Thus, kde-telepathy does not get installed by default when upgrading from a previous release, and kde-full still depends upon kopete. :-( Apart from these minnor annoying things I'm satisfied with this release. :-) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:gojulgarbmail]]</nowiki> 
* I installed beta2 from scratch.I executed all my everyday tasks without any problem. The only issue so far was installing Firefox: I installed Firefox using kickoff standard option and I got no kde-support. After installing firefox-kde-support package by blue-shell team, I had to downgrade firefox to 15.0+build1-0ubuntu2~ppa3 in order to get  kde-support. Moreover, I didn't like LightDM and I have to admit that I' m not fond of the default wallpaper. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dimkard]]</nowiki> 
* I've read several positive reviews of this beta so I was enthusiastic: maybe finally I could give another try to kontact/akonadi. Alas... sending email to "contact groups" still doesn't work.

 [EDIT] In fact it works ! But after creating the contact group, you should wait long enough so that nepomuk is updated with the new information. I closed kontact, waited 5min, and then re-opened and it works. That's surprising but that's great news.  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sanette-linux]]</nowiki> 
* libreoffice-kde package makes Libreoffice look terrible, it should be considered to replace libreoffice-kde package with libreoffice-gtk package. Now that Libreoffice 3.6 and gtk2-engines-oxygen 1.3.0 display proper window background gradients, Libreoffice on Kubuntu with libreoffice-gtk looks absolutely like a native application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:efeciftci]]</nowiki> 