{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== DRAFT ==
'''TO DO:  NEEDS EDITING TO go to 12.10 '''

== New Features in Kubuntu ==

This release of Kubuntu is a 5 year Long Term Support release that has been developed with a focus on stability <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/feature-tour|features]]</nowiki>.

=== Plasma Desktop ===

* The power management configuration interface has been redesigned, and is now multi-screen aware: settings can be customized for each Activity.

* KDE's window manager has significant performance improvements and the Window Switcher now has a choice of 6 layouts, providing a better experience for those not using desktop effects.

* A new Plasma panel option, Icon Tasks, provides an alternative icon-only taskbar.

=== KDE Applications ===

* File manager Dolphin has a new display engine which greatly speeds up file browsing, and an improved layout improves its appearance.

* Image viewer Gwenview adds a new navigation area which appears when an image is zoomed so scrolling is easier.

* KDE's document viewer, brings advanced text selection features.

* Web browser Rekonq has been updated to provide more speed and stability for your web browsing needs.

* Amarok has added an MP3 shop and integration with GPodder, an online personal podcast archive.

=== Kubuntu Applications ===

* Package management Muon Suite is now more robust and faster than ever. The Muon Update Manager has received a facelift, making keeping your computer up-to-date a snap. For the power user who wants to control the details of his or her updates, the Muon Package Manager is still available to handle all your update needs, giving you full control. Additionally, the Muon Package Manager now gives you more explicit notification of what extra dependencies will be installed when you mark packages for installation.

* Oxygen-GTK 3 helps integrate apps written with GTK 3. We have packaged the theme to neatly integrate with KDE's Oxygen.

As an LTS we keep applications changes to a minimum but while not part of a default Kubuntu installation, we provide some interesting new packages for you to try. These are available for download using Muon Software Center.

* Instant Messaging has changed and so has our software with Telepathy KDE. You can easily set it up to talk on GTalk or Facebook as well as MSN and many other protocols.

* Calligra: a new life for the old KOffice suite brings the document and creativity suite to a new audience. Now with much improved MS Office file import filters.

* The <nowiki>[[http://owncloud.org|OwnCloud]]</nowiki> self-hosted cloud solution sees a major upgrade to version 3.

=== Kubuntu Active ===
Kubuntu Active is a new Ubuntu flavour for tablets. It uses <nowiki>[[http://plasma-active.org|Plasma Active]]</nowiki> and the new UIs designed for tablets. This preview release is currently avilable for i386 only at this time as an image to put on USB keys.

Download Kubuntu Active from http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-active/releases/precise/

=== Desktop Infrastructure ===
* DNS resolution is now done through dnsmasq, which should help split-DNS VPNs and faster DNS resolution.

== Installation ==

=== Overview ===

Preparing your computer for Kubuntu is now much simpler, with a wider range of disk setup options. Each of these are detailed at length to provide you with a clear understanding of the actions that will take place with your selection.

You can now reinstall or upgrade an existing copy of Kubuntu with the Desktop CD installer, provided that your computer is connected to the Internet. 

=== Download ===

Kubuntu 12.04 images can be downloaded from:
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/precise/ (Kubuntu)
** http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu-active/releases/precise/ (Kubuntu Active) 

=== System Requirements ===

The minimum memory requirement for Kubuntu 12.04 is 384 MB of memory for Kubuntu.   Note that some of your system's memory may be unavailable due to being used by the graphics card. If your computer has only the minimum amount of memory, the installation process will take longer than normal; however, it will complete successfully, and the system will perform adequately once installed.

Systems with less memory may be able to select "Install Kubuntu" from the boot menu to run just the installer, rather than the whole desktop, or may be able to use the alternate install CD.

== Upgrading ==

=== Upgrading from Kubuntu 11.10 ===

To <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades/Kubuntu|upgrade from Kubuntu 11.10]]</nowiki> on a desktop system, run "muon-updater" and upgrade to the latest packages, reboot the computer and you will be prompted to upgrade at next login.

=== Upgrading from Kubuntu 10.04 LTS to Kubuntu 12.04 LTS ===

To <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades/Kubuntu/10.04LTS|upgrade from Kubuntu 10.04 LTS]]</nowiki> on a desktop system run KPackageKit, select Software Updates and click the link to "Upgrade to 12.04 LTS".

Do note that LTS upgrade notifications will not show until the first 12.04 maintenance release. Instructions to manually begin the process before this are found in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades/Kubuntu/10.04LTS|upgrade instructions]]</nowiki> above.

=== Upgrading from Other Releases ===

Users of other Kubuntu releases need to upgrade first to 11.10, and then to 12.04.

For further information on upgrading to 11.10, please see the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OneiricUpgrades/Kubuntu| Kubuntu Oneiric upgrade instructions ]]</nowiki>.

== Known Issues ==

=== KDM login manager ===

* After a new user is created in Kubuntu systemsettings, they will be prompted to change their password when they log in for the first time. There is an issue that prevents the new password from being entered. In order to avoid this problem, the X server needs to be restarted before the new user logs in. After logout, click on the red logout button on the KDM screen and then click on "Restart X Server". Once the KDM login screen returns, the new user should be able to log in normally. (Bug:641712)

=== Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdemultimedia/+bug/963895|963895]]</nowiki> kmix is crashing after multiple volume changes
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kactivities/+bug/966247|966247]]</nowiki> kactivitymanagerd crashes on login
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdepim/+bug/966913|966913]]</nowiki> Akonadi contact resource wrong defaults
* <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/bugs/988866|988866]]</nowiki> Akonadi mail filter fails after configuration corrupted
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/989249|989249]]</nowiki> Kubuntu amd64+mac crash in manual partitioner
* KMail users upgrading from 10.04 LTS will need to read <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/PrecisePangolin/Final/Kubuntu/Kmail2|KMail2 Akonadi transition instructions]]</nowiki>

== Support ==

* 5 year, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LTS|LTS]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/support|Contact information]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.kubuntu.org/contact-us|Contact Us]]</nowiki>
