{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Voir http://ubuntu-qc.org/ pour du contenu en français.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuQuebec/LiveWebChatIRC|Par ici pour aller au WebChat]]</nowiki> et obtenir de l'aide immédiate (soyez patient!).

=== Goals and objectives ===
Ubuntu Quebec wishes to invite current users and members of other local groups to expose their current work and focus new efforts on local project using Ubuntu. Our current goals and objectives include:

* Increase participation and visibility at local events (InstallFests, conferences, etc.)
* Identify and invite individuals and organisations that use Ubuntu to participate in Ubuntu QC
* Work in collaboration with the CanadianTeam and FrenchTeam, as well as http://www.ubuntu-fr.org for documentation, forums, etc.

=== Events ===

* Future events:

* Ongoing and recurring events:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour

* Past events:
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/GlobalJam11.09 - We plan to organize a Global Jam event for each release
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/NattyParty|Natty Release Party]]</nowiki> - April 21, 2011
** Presence at the !GeekFest Montréal
*** 2011 (<nowiki>[[http://blog.cyphermox.net/2011/03/this-weekends-geekfest-in-montreal.html|Blog post by Mathieu]]</nowiki>)
*** 2010 (<nowiki>[[http://idle-one.blogspot.com/2010/03/geekfest-montreal.html|Blog post by Giovanni]]</nowiki>)
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/MaverickParty - October 14, 2010
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/GlobalJam10.08 - August 28, 2010 (!SupInfo Montréal)
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/LucidParty - April 29, 2010
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/GlobalJam10.03 - March 26, 27, 28 2010
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/KarmicParty - October 29, 2009
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/GlobalJam2009 - October 2, 3, 4 2009 (Montreal, QC)
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/JauntyParty
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/IntrepidParty

=== Membership ===

The Quebec team is composed of individuals that have expressed interest in becoming significant contributors to the development of Ubuntu in the Quebec province (or already are). Complete instructions on how to join and a list of current members is available at:
http://www.launchpad.net/people/ubuntu-qc

To make sure you don't miss any future event you may also join the Ubuntu Quebec <nowiki>[[https://www.facebook.com/groups/5646471266|Facebook group]]</nowiki>. 

==== Mailing list ====

* You can subscribe to the Quebec team mailing list <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-quebec|here]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-quebec/|Consult the mailing list archives]]</nowiki>.

=== Past projects ===
* <nowiki>[[QuebecTeam-Marketing|Marketing material]]</nowiki> localized for events and activities in Quebec - most likely in French
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuebecTeam/IRC|Help in IRC]]</nowiki> - helping other francophone or English users on IRC
* <nowiki>[[QuebecTeam-InstallFests2007|InstallFests2007]]</nowiki> in Quebec province for 2007
* UbuntuInLibraries

 If you wish to add a project and you think that the QuebecTeam should give its support for it, just add it on this page, and create a page explaining in details the project. The team will then contact you shortly after.

=== Contact ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mathieu-tl|Mathieu Trudel-Lapierre]]</nowiki> - LoCo Team contact

=== History / Background ===
See: <nowiki>[[QuebecTeam-Background]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
