{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Lancement d'Ubuntu « Precise Pangolin » 12.04 ==

'''Party de lancement / Release Party

Jeudi 26 Avril, 2012 de 17h-20h, au Bar Le Saint-Sulpice (1680, rue Saint-Denis, Montréal, QC, H2X 3K6).

Thursday April 26th, 2012 from 5PM to 8PM at Le Saint-Sulpice Bar (1680, rue Saint-Denis, Montréal, QC, H2X 3K6).'''

[English follows]

Ubuntu-QC vous invite à nous joindre pour célèbrer Ubuntu. Rencontrez des membres d'Ubuntu-QC, à l'occasion du lancement Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (Precise Pangolin).

Apportez vos portables, vous en profiterez pour y installer la toute dernière version d'Ubuntu avec l'aide des membre de la communautee.

Ces rencontres sont devenues une tradition au sein de l'univers des utilisateurs d'Ubuntu. On salue entre amis et utilisateurs l'arrivée des nouvelles versions de la distribution.

La plupart des employés de Canonical du bureau de Montréal ainsi que d'autres en visite sont habituellement de la partie, en plus de clients et partenaires. C'est donc une excellente occasion de réseauter et trouver de nouvelles opportunités d'affaires.

-

Ubuntu-QC invites you to join us to celebrate Ubuntu. Meet Ubuntu-QC members, at the Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (Precise Pangolin) release party.

Bring your laptop, you'll be able to install the latest version of Ubuntu with the help of community members.

These meetings have become a tradition. Join us to celebrate the arrival of new version of the distribution.

Most employees of Canonical's Montreal office and other who will be visiting will be attending. This is an excellent opportunity to network and create new business opportunities.
