{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

During the Ubuntu Global Jam we will be preforming the following bug-related activities.

* Presentation - Bugs (How to report and triage bugs properly)
** Tags: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Tags
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/EasyTasks

* Activity:
** Goal: Bring 5 bugs to the table for discussion.

* Bug Triage Sprint
** Touch/triage <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-datecreated&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=New&field.assignee=&field.owner=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=on|these open unassigned bugs]]</nowiki>
** Use '''ugjqc-11.09''' tag on all bugs worked on and keep a record of those bugs.

* Confirm/Mark as affecting you
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/840488|UbuntuOne Duplicate Items in gnome-control-center]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/840483|Software Center banner text is offset and seen in triplicate]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/840473|gnome-disk-utility is not small screen friendly]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/840454|Power preferences does not have an option for Laptop Lid Close behavior]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apport/+bug/840440|No Package Specified. You need to specify a package or a PID. See --help for more information.]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-utils/+bug/840432|gnome-screenshot shows flash effect after dialog is shown]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/840402|Default Applications does not belong in System Info]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/840383|apport opens chromium even though firefox is set as default browser]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/840363|apport opens chromium even though firefox is set as default browser]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/840574|Alt-Tab application switcher is offset by one when on external monitor]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/d-conf/+bug/840571|dconf-editor key value frame is too small and not resizeable]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/840564|Displaying 1024x768 on external monitor shows 800x600 with black border]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/840561|xchat systray icon was too large, now appears when showing workspace switcher]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/840535|High contrast inverse large theme does not use large font]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/840527|Dash is larger than screen, icons are missing]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841081|System Settings should include an Update Manager icon]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841079|System Settings should include a Screensaver]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841076|System Settings should include a way to change default Desktop Environment]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841045|System Settings window does not maximize or come to front when open in background]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841070|System Settings unity launcher icon should display the setting which is open]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde-workspace/+bug/735166|Duplicate System Settings & System Monitor in Gnome/Unity]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/miro/+bug/841112|Requesting Miro 4.0.3 in Ubuntu Oneiric 11.10]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/841184|LibreOffice ignores default email client]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/796207|Can't drag Quassel to launcher (other apps work)]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Mtrudel|Mathieu Trudel]]</nowiki> worked on this bug for a bit on Saturday...
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox/+bug/841241|Testcases are not automated]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/841224|jockey should include package name]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gwibber/+bug/841313|Five buttons icons are missing in Gwibber when using KDE Plasma]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/841369|English (South Africa) Language Pack is installed by default in Mozilla Firefox]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/841376|'Report a bug...' function in Mozilla Firefox does not work]]</nowiki>
