{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Funny, insightful, or otherwise interesting things said by members of the project. Reverse chronological order, like a blog.''<<BR>>

''Please be sensitive to everyone in the Project when posting on this page.  We are working in a multi-cultural and multi-lingual environment and certain quotes (without wishing to) can offend others and can easily be misunderstood.  If in doubt, don't quote!''

''Some items on this page are disputed because they lack a
<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Neutral_point_of_view|neutral point of view]]</nowiki>.''

-------------------
==== Funny tagline of the quote ====

<pre>
The quote itself
</pre>
-------------------

=== It's a thing, it's like a plan.  Respect the thing ===
<pre>
10:56 < Spads> mhall119: is it working like you hoped?
10:56 < mhall119> thanks Spads!
10:57 < mhall119> Spads: so far so good, we'll see if there are any other last-minute 
                  changes
10:57 < mhall119> after all, we still have 2 hours to go :)
10:57 < Spads> mhall119: WHAT COULD POSSIBLY GO WRONG
</pre>

=== Past Quotes ===

-------------------
<pre>
21:15 < tbsaunde> AlanBell: your missing an autoconf m4 macro to check for gobject introspection, not immediately sure what package you need though
21:16 < tbsaunde> AlanBell: do you understand how autogen / autoreconf and configure.{ac,in} / configure work?
21:16 < AlanBell> by pixies
21:16 < AlanBell> and magic elves
21:17 < tbsaunde> no, though the sacrafice of one virgin, two cows and 4 goats is sometimes required to make it work correctly
21:18 < AlanBell> the cows and goats I can find
</pre>

-------------------
==== And I thought they were supposed to be just like bare metal ====

<pre>
"No, You '''can't''' flash your BIOS from within VMware" - mjg59 to lamont.
</pre>
-------------------

==== The What?! ====
<pre>
"This is the sendmail-in-base BOF, right?" - jbailey to lamont.
</pre>
-------------------
