{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size:0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== daloRADIUS ==
== Introduction ==
daloRADIUS is an advanced RADIUS web management application aimed at managing hotspots and general-purpose ISP deployments. It features user management, graphical reporting, accounting, a billing engine and integrates with GoogleMaps for geo-locating. 

Note: This how-to has been tested with 8.04 and 10.04

== Install Prerequisites ==
* Apache 1/2
* PHP 4/5
* PHP GD 
* PHP DB Abstraction Layer (may require PHP Pear)
* MySQL 4/5

This how-to is based on Ubuntu server 10.04

== How-to Install ==
A list of all packages which you need installed to get this running in even less time so that you don't have to spend time on figuring out which packages are required and which are not.
If you are doing a new OS install you can skip the next line 'sudo tasksel' as this fuction is built in to the install script

<pre>
sudo tasksel
</pre>
select
* LAMP
* SSH server

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get upgrade
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install mysql-server
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install php5-gd php-pear php-db
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install freeradius freeradius-mysql
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin
</pre>
=== Extract Archive ===
Choose which version you would like to install. Either "stable" or "bleeding edge" but not both.

Stable is code that has been tested and is considered to be stable

Bleeding edge code is code that is under active development with all the new bells and whistles but may be unstable.  
-------
==== Stable ====
 daloRADIUS homepage is hosted on sourceforge at the address of ''http://sourceforge.net/projects/daloradius/'' and you may get the latest release from there if you haven't already done so.
 <pre>
 wget http://sourceforge.net/projects/daloradius/files/daloradius/daloradius-0.9-8/daloradius-0.9-8.tar.gz/download
 }}}
 extract the daloradius.tar.gz archive to ''/var/www''
 {{{
 tar -zxvf daloradius-0.9-8.tar.gz
 }}}
 {{{
 mv daloradius-0.9-8 daloradius
 }}}

 {{{
 sudo cp daloradius/ /var/www -R
 }}}

'''or'''

==== Bleeding Edge ====
 Download from svn

 {{{
 sudo apt-get install subversion build-essential screen
 }}}
 {{{
 svn co https://daloradius.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/daloradius/trunk  daloradius
 }}}
 {{{
 sudo cp daloradius/ /var/www -R
 }}}
-------
=== Setting Permissions ===
You also need to change permissions so that the webserver user and group are owning daloRADIUS's directory. In Debian the user and group are www-data and so we need to do this:
{{{
sudo chown www-data:www-data /var/www/daloradius -R
</pre>
<pre>
sudo chmod 644 /var/www/daloradius/library/daloradius.conf.php
</pre>
The chmod command is for having the daloradius.conf.php configuration file writable by the webserver for easy administration from the web interface.
=== Database Setup ===
==== Fresh install of daloRADIUS (and possibly FreeRADIUS) ====
If you *DONT HAVE* the radius database in MySQL you need to create it and then import both freeradius and daloradius tables using this schema: (for fresh installations)
<pre>
cd /var/www/daloradius/contrib/db/
</pre>
<pre>
mysql -u root -p
Enter password:mysqladminsecret
mysql> CREATE DATABASE radius;
mysql> quit
</pre>
-------
===== FreeRADIUS 1.X =====
 If you are working with FreeRADIUS 1.X (Ubuntu 8.04) then:
 <pre>
 mysql -u root -p radius < fr1-mysql-daloradius-and-freeradius.sql
 }}}
 '''If'''
  '''Also if using svn version run the following command to update'''
  {{{
  mysql -u root -p radius < mysql-migrate-0.98-to-0.99.sql
  }}}

'''or'''

===== FreeRADIUS 2.X =====
 If you are working with FreeRADIUS 2.X (Ubuntu 10.04) then:
 {{{				
 mysql -u root -p radius < fr2-mysql-daloradius-and-freeradius.sql
 }}}
 '''If'''
  '''Also if using svn version run the following command to update'''
  {{{
  mysql -u root -p radius < mysql-migrate-0.98-to-0.99.sql
  }}}

'''or'''

==== Radius database already imported ====
 If you already have the radius database imported (i.e: radcheck, radacct, etc...) then you only need daloradius's tables added:
 {{{
 cd /var/www/daloradius/contrib/db
 }}}
 {{{
 mysql -u root -p radius < mysql-daloradius.sql
 }}}
 '''If'''
  '''Also if using svn version run the following command to update'''
  {{{
  mysql -u root -p radius < mysql-migrate-0.98-to-0.99.sql
  }}}

-------
=== Database Connection Setup ===
Now, simply adjust the MySQL database information in daloRADIUS's config file.
{{{
cd /var/www/daloradius/library/
</pre>
<pre>
sudo nano -w daloradius.conf.php
</pre>
-------
===== FreeRADIUS 1.X =====
 If you are working with FreeRADIUS 1.X (Ubuntu 8.04) then:
 <pre>
 $configValues['FREERADIUS_VERSION'] = '1';
 }}}
 {{{
 $configValues['CONFIG_DB_PASS'] = 'password';
 }}}

'''or'''
===== FreeRADIUS 2.X =====
 If you are working with FreeRADIUS 2.X (Ubuntu 10.04) then:
 {{{
 $configValues['FREERADIUS_VERSION'] = '2';
 }}}
 {{{
 $configValues['CONFIG_DB_PASS'] = 'password';
 }}}
 {{{
 $configValues['CONFIG_DB_TBL_RADUSERGROUP'] = 'radusergroup';
 }}}
-------
=== Installation Complete ===
Surf to 
{{{
http://your ip address/daloradius
</pre> 
Login to the management:

<pre>
username: administrator
password: radius
</pre>

Notice: don't forget to change the default password in the Configuration -> Operators page

== See Also ==
Open Source Hotspot controllers
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/ChillispotHotspot|Chillispot]]</nowiki> - Chilli Hotspot controller
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/ChillispotHotspot/8.04|Chillispot ubuntu 8.04]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu 8.04 Chilli Hotspot controller
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/CoovaChilli|CoovaChilli]]</nowiki> - CoovaChilli Hotspot controller

== External Links ==
daloRADIUS source information
* <nowiki>[[http://daloradius.com/| Official daloRADIUS]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/daloradius/|Sourceforge]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.howtoforge.com/authentication-authorization-and-accounting-with-freeradius-and-mysql-backend-and-webbased-management-with-daloradius|howtoforge]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.8021xhelp.com/node/5|How-to]]</nowiki>
 
----
CategoryNetworking
