{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox|Checkbox]]</nowiki> is a system testing platform for Ubuntu. It aims to provide a common framework to run all types of tests, from hardware tests, to command line tests, unit tests or desktop tests.

== Running the Checkbox GUI ==

As checkbox-gtk is no longer maintained, and superceded by checkbox-qt, please ensure you are running checkbox-qt. For more on this, please see <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox/+bug/1113805/comments/6|here.]]</nowiki>

== Non-Interactive Hardware Tests ==

The following are done automatically during system testing without user interaction:

* Hard drive detection
* Hard drive read
* Hard drive cache read
* Built-in camera detection
* CPU offlining
* CPU topology
* CPU clock
* Graphics minimum resolution
* Graphics driver version
* Graphics hybrid detection
* Graphics VESA driver detection
* Memory detection
* Notebook battery detection
* Network hardware detection (ethernet and WiFi)
* Internet connection establishment
* Optical drive detection
* USB detection

== Interactive Tests ==

The following tests require user interaction:
* External Microphone - This may be used to test the built-in microphone, as well as an external microphone plugged into the microphone port.
* USB Microphone
* Internal Speakers - This may be used to test the built-in speakrs, as well as external speakers.
* Built-In Camera
* FireWire Hard Disk Drive
* Default Display
* Default Display Resolution
* Keyboard
* Pointing Device
* Super Key
* Battery Information Key
* Brightness Key
* Media Keys - Previous, Stop, Next, Play
* Mute Key
* Volume Keys
* Wireless Key
* Media card reader can detect the insertion of a Multimedia Card (MMC) media
* Media card reader can detect the insertion of a Secure Digital (SD) media card
* Media card reader can detect the insertion of a Secure Digital High-Capacity (SDHC) media card
* Media card reader can detect the insertion of a Compact Flash (CF) media card
* HDMI Display
* VGA Port
* Monitor power saving capabilities
* Wireless Connection
* Read CD media
* PCMCIA or ExpressCard slot detection
* USB storage device detection

== Links ==

* Developing Checkbox - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation/Checkbox
