{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

ChilliSpot is an open source captive portal or wireless LAN access point controller. It is used for authenticating users of a wireless LAN. It supports web based login, which is today's standard for public HotSpots, WISP "smart-client" authentication, and it supports Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA and WPA2). Authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA protocol) is handled via RADIUS (on board or remote).

Development on the original project continues, but slowly for some. The Coova-Chilli is an active project and has since added many new features and is an integral part of the CoovaAP firmware.

As of mid 2007, ChilliSpot appears to be dead. The developer Jens Jacobsen had vanished, and the chillispot.org domain lapsed, but chillispot.info continues the original development. CoovaChilli has forked from ChilliSpot 1.0 and its development also continues with an active user-base.

== Uses in firmware ==

CoovaAP
    An OpenWrt based firmware with many hotspot specific features.
DD-WRT
    ChilliSpot is included in the latest builds of the open source DD-WRT firmware package.
OpenWRT
    Chillispot is included as a package in WhiteRussian RC5, the OpenWRT linux distribution for wireless routers, and DD-WRT. ChilliSpot, a RADIUS server, and a Web Server, can be configured on a single OpenWRT router, to create a public or commercial HotSpot with a very small form factor.
    The new OpenWRT RC6 has code name kamikaze. 

== Uses in software ==

FON
    ChilliSpot is used in FON's FONSPOT software that turns a regular Mac/Linux/PC machine into a FON spot. 

== External links ==

*** <nowiki>[[http://www.chillispot.info/|ChilliSpot homepage]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://coova.org/|CoovaChilli homepage]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryWireless
