{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent page: <nowiki>[[InternetAndNetworking| Internet and Networking]]</nowiki>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFF280"> {i} CitrixXenAppPlugin is part of the UserDocumentation series of index pages.  Please read the WikiGuide prior to making changes.
|}

The Citrix !XenApp plugin allows one to run a <nowiki>[[CitrixICAClientHowTo|Citrix client]]</nowiki> from within one's web browser. The following presumes that

# You have already setup the Citrix ICA client as described <nowiki>[[CitrixICAClientHowTo|here]]</nowiki>.
# When you click on a link to a Citrix resource, you are prompted to download or use '''launch.ica''' or similar filename.

(If the remote desktop launches, you are done, and can skip this page.)

== Using Firefox ==
=== Invoking the web ICA client ===
1. Find the web ICA client executable '''wfica'''. This should be in the same direcory as the native client executable '''wfcmgr''' (deprecated in Citrix Receiver 13.0), e.g., '''/usr/lib/ICAClient/''' or '''/opt/Citrix/ICAClient/'''. Try running
<pre>
sudo ls -al /usr/lib/ICAClient/wfica
</pre>
 or
<pre>
sudo ls -al /opt/Citrix/ICAClient/wfica
</pre>
 in a terminal: you should see it listed. If not, get the full path using something like
<pre>
sudo find /usr -name 'wfica'
</pre>
1.#2 Click on a link to a Citrix resource: you should be prompted to download or use '''launch.ica''' or other filename.
# Set Firefox to open the downloaded file with '''wfica''': i.e. in the download dialog tell Firefox to
## open the file using the full path to '''wfica'''
## always use '''wfica''' to open that file

The remote application or desktop should then launch, possibly preceded by a '''Citrix Receiver''' splash dialog. If not, there are other problems you need to fix.

=== Configuring certificates ===
When clicking on a Citrix link or icon, you may see the '''Citrix Receiver''' splash dialog followed by a dialog with title='''Client Error'''
<pre>
You have not chosen to trust "Entrust.net Certification Authority (2048)", the issuer of the server's security certifcate (SSL error 61).
</pre>
(Note that the error may reference some other certification authority.) Hit button=Quit. You will then need to download and install the necessary certificate.

The following instructions reference the '''Entrust.net Certification Authority (2048)''': the particulars of the procedure required for your use case may vary, but the general procedure will be the same:

# Find the place to which to download the required certificate. Your local IT consultant may be useful here; otherwise, look in a subdirectory of the directory in which you found '''wfica''', e.g., '''/usr/lib/ICAClient/keystore/cacerts'''.
# Find the place from which to download the required certificate. Your local IT consultant may be useful here; otherwise, use your favorite search engine. Note that the Entrust.net certificates can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[https://www.entrust.net/downloads/root_request.cfm|here]]</nowiki>.
# Find the URI from which to download the required certificate. Note that, to write the certificate to, e.g., '''/usr/lib/ICAClient/keystore/cacerts''', you will need '''sudo''', so you will probably be unable to download the certificate from your browser. For the Entrust.net certificate used in this example, the URI is
<pre>
https://www.entrust.net/downloads/binary/entrust_2048_ca.cer
</pre>
1.#4 Download the certificate using '''sudo''', with, e.g.,
<pre>
SOURCE_URI="https://www.entrust.net/downloads/binary/entrust_2048_ca.cer"
SOURCE_FN="$(basename ${SOURCE_URI})"
TARGET_DIR="/usr/lib/ICAClient/keystore/cacerts"
TARGET_FP="${TARGET_DIR}/${SOURCE_FN}"
sudo wget -c -O ${TARGET_FP} ${SOURCE_URI}
sudo ls -al ${TARGET_FP}
</pre>
1.#5 Quit and restart your browser, load the page containing the link to your Citrix resource, and attempt to access it again. Citrix Receiver should run without giving the certificate error, and your remote application or desktop should become visible.

----
CategoryNetworking CategorySoftware
