{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


A '''clip art''' picture is a pre-made picture which you can use to illustrate your documents. Most clip art is free to use, but some comes with terms and conditions which restrict how you can use the pictures.

=== Downloading new clip art pictures ===

You can install a large collection of clip art on your computer, for use with !LibreOffice, !OpenOffice.org and other programs. This clip art is produced by the <nowiki>[[http://www.openclipart.org/|Open Clip Art project]]</nowiki>.

# Install the '''openclipart''' package. The package is large, so may take a while to download. (In newer versions, install '''openclipart-libreoffice''' and '''openclipart2-libreoffice'''.)
# To insert clip art in !LibreOffice or !OpenOffice.org, press '''Insert -> Picture -> From File'''.  This will browse the gallery directory of !OpenOffice.org but in !LibreOffice it opens the ~/Pictures folder. (In newer versions, click '''Tools -> Gallery''' instead.)
# If you don't see the clip art as expected, open a Terminal ('''Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal''') and type the following:
## For !LibreOffice
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/share/openclipart/png/ /usr/lib/libreoffice/share/gallery/clipart
</pre>
1. For !OpenOffice
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/share/openclipart/png/ /usr/lib/openoffice/basis3.2/share/gallery/clipart
</pre>

Note that both PNG and SVG versions of the clipart are installed by the openclipart package. In the commands above, /svg/ can be substituted for /png/ for SVG versions of the clipart.

Now you will see several new categories of clipart in the Gallery.

=== Other sources of clip art ===

Below is a selection of sites which provide downloadable clip art:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.openclipart.org/|Open Clip Art]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/clipart/default.aspx|Microsoft Office Clipart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.barrysclipart.com/|Barry's Clipart Server]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://classroomclipart.com/|Classroom Clipart]]</nowiki>
