{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== clonezilla the backup / restore utility ==

 http://sourceforge.net/projects/clonezilla  home page

'''clonezilla-live-20150217-utopic-amd64.zip'''

should best be booted from SD card. Then you can easily edit the /EFI/boot/grub.cfg, setting the language to your country, like fr = France, de = Germany asf.

replacing the kernel parameters in the same spot can preempt the regular bash scripts. You could just 
replace 
'''<pre>
ocs_live_run="ocs-live-general"
</pre>'''

with "sh" and explore

{1} /usr/sbin/ocr* - the various bash scripts which clonezilla offers

{2} /lib/live/mount/medium - your SD card where you can save stuff to, if you booted clonezilla in "toram" mode

To produce a custom clonezilla booting into your custom-bash-script, you may want to '''unsquash''' clonezilla's main <nowiki>[[squash-fs]]</nowiki>, modify it, and replace the original on SD. Just rename the old one but keep it on SD, so you can fall back to default Squash-fs at any time with no effort (just rename the 2 files from your main Linux on the FAT32-formatted SD card).

Clonezilla has a sequential text menu, but it tells you the shell commands needed to quickly call any repetitive task such as backing up the same source drive to the same target on a routine basis. No big deal to call such a shell script from 

/lib/live/mount/medium/custom/myRoutineTask.sh

once you escaped to shell.
