{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.cmdbuild.org/index_html-1?set_language=en&cl=en|CMDBuild]]</nowiki> is a configurable web application to model and manage a database containing assets (CMDB stands for "Configuration and Management Data Base") and handle related workflow operations.

The aim is to let the operators have full control of the assets used, knowing exactly composition, dislocation, functional relations and history.

CMDBuild is a centralized management module working with databases and external applications: automatic inventory, documents management, text processing, directory services, e-mail, monitoring systems, intranet portals and other information systems.

CMDBuild is a flexible and user-upgradeable system and uses the best practices defined by <nowiki>[[http://www.itil-officialsite.com/|ITIL]]</nowiki> (IT Information Library). CMDBuild is released with GPL license.

CMDBuild application, if correctly configured and managed, offers to managers and IT operators answers to these common questions:

*** how many resources do I have
*** where is located a specific asset and who and how is using it
*** is it (the asset) part of something and what's his composition
*** which are the warranties or licenses expiring
*** do I have all the required software licenses
*** what's the asset life cycle
*** which are the connections between asset and network devices
*** changes to this asset implies changes to other assets
*** which are the jobs waiting for my action
*** who worked on an asset and when, with which authorization, what's the final result

This install guide has been tested on a fresh Karmic Koala 9.10 Ubuntu installation.

=== Apache Tomcat installation ===

Install Apache Tomcat running the following command in the command prompt:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install tomcat6
</pre>

Add a user with ''manager'' role: edit the file '''/etc/tomcat6/tomcat-users.xml''' adding the following code

<pre>
<tomcat-users>
 <role rolename="manager"/>
 <user username="manager" password="manager" roles="manager"/>
</tomcat-users>
</pre>

setting '''username''' and '''password''' of your own choice.
Beware that the ''<tomcat-users>'' and ''</tomcat-users>'' tags are already present.

Tomcat on Ubuntu comes with Security enabled: check the Tomcat domcumentation to find how to correctly configure this part; to remove Tomcat security just edit '''/etc/default/tomcat6''' and set

<pre>
TOMCAT6_SECURITY=no
</pre>

'''Warning''': this disables Tomcat security, please check Tomcat documentation on this matter.

You can get more information about Apache Tomcat on Ubuntu <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/9.10/serverguide/C/tomcat.html|here]]</nowiki>.

=== PostgreSQL installation ===

Install PostgreSQL running the following command in the command prompt:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install postgresql-8.4
</pre>

You can also install the graphical front-end pgAdmin3 by running the following command:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install pgadmin3
</pre>

Enable an administrator user ''postgres'' by running the following commands

<pre>
sudo -u postgres psql template1
ALTER USER postgres WITH PASSWORD 'postgres';
\q
</pre>

Just replace the string ''postgres'' after ''PASSWORD'' with the password you choose.

=== CMDBuild installation ===

Download the JDBC driver for PostgreSQL from http://jdbc.postgresql.org/download.html
and copy the JAR file in '''/usr/share/tomcat6/lib'''.

Download CMDBuild from the main site http://www.cmdbuild.org and uncompress the file in a local directory.

Tomcat on Ubuntu has an issue related to the Java dbcp library. CMDBuild comes with this library bundled in the distribution package since it was not shipped with Tomcat 5.5. Copy the file '''<local_cmdbuild_dir>/extras/tomcat-libs/5.5/tomcat-dbcp.jar''' in '''/usr/share/tomcat6/lib'''.

=== Start Tomcat and deploy CMDBuild ===

Now run the following command

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/tomcat start
</pre>

using a browser go to http://localhost:8080/manager/html, log in with the credentials you set in '''/etc/tomcat6/tomcat-users.xml''' go to the bottom of the page under Deploy->WAR file to deploy: select the WAR file in the CMDBuild local directory where you uncompressed the distribution file and click ''Deploy''.

Now you can see ''/cmdbuild'' under Applications and clicking it you can access you CMDBuild installation (and, after the installation, the application). From here you can follow the Technical Manual found under Documentation on the CMDBuild site.

PostgreSQL access data required by the installation screen of CMDBuild are

<pre>
Host localhost
Porta 5432
Super user postgres
Password postgres
</pre>

Tomcat applications errors can be found under '''/var/lib/tomcat6/logs/'''.
