{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Overview ==

=== Ubuntu Server and Alternate ISO ===

After importing an Ubuntu Server/Alternate ISO, a default/sample preseed is used. This preseed is found at:

<pre>
/var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/sample.seed
</pre>

When using this preseed file to deploy Ubuntu, questions will be asked and the administrator will have to interact with the installation and respond accordingly. However, it is possible to use an alternative preseed file so to install Ubuntu automatically, no questions asked.

=== Ubuntu Mini ISO ===

When importing Ubuntu Mini ISO image, no preseed file is set given that the mini ISO image does not contain any information about the image itself. For this reason, it will be necessary to add a preseed file right after importing an Ubuntu Mini ISO image.

== No Questions Asked preseed ==

=== Creating the preseed ===

The No Questions Asked preseed, will install Ubuntu without having to ask questions to the administrator. The first thing we need to do is to create a new file on which to copy the preseed:

<pre>
sudo vim /var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/ubuntu-nqa.seed
</pre>

And we copy the following:

<pre>

d-i	debian-installer/locale	string en_US.UTF-8
d-i	debian-installer/splash boolean false
d-i	console-setup/ask_detect	boolean false
d-i	console-setup/layoutcode	string us
d-i	console-setup/variantcode	string
d-i	netcfg/get_nameservers	string
d-i	netcfg/get_ipaddress	string
d-i	netcfg/get_netmask	string 255.255.255.0
d-i	netcfg/get_gateway	string
d-i	netcfg/confirm_static	boolean true
d-i	clock-setup/utc	boolean true
d-i 	partman-auto/method string regular
d-i 	partman-lvm/device_remove_lvm boolean true
d-i 	partman-lvm/confirm boolean true
d-i 	partman/confirm_write_new_label boolean true
d-i 	partman/choose_partition        select Finish partitioning and write changes to disk
d-i 	partman/confirm boolean true
d-i 	partman/confirm_nooverwrite boolean true
d-i 	partman/default_filesystem string ext3
d-i 	clock-setup/utc boolean true
d-i	clock-setup/ntp	boolean true
d-i	clock-setup/ntp-server	string ntp.ubuntu.com
d-i	base-installer/kernel/image	string linux-server
d-i	passwd/root-login	boolean false
d-i	passwd/make-user	boolean true
d-i	passwd/user-fullname	string ubuntu
d-i	passwd/username	string ubuntu
d-i	passwd/user-password-crypted	password $6$.1eHH0iY$ArGzKX2YeQ3G6U.mlOO3A.NaL22Ewgz8Fi4qqz.Ns7EMKjEJRIW2Pm/TikDptZpuu7I92frytmk5YeL.9fRY4.
d-i	passwd/user-uid	string
d-i	user-setup/allow-password-weak	boolean false
d-i	user-setup/encrypt-home	boolean false
d-i	passwd/user-default-groups	string adm cdrom dialout lpadmin plugdev sambashare
d-i	apt-setup/services-select	multiselect security
d-i	apt-setup/security_host	string security.ubuntu.com
d-i	apt-setup/security_path	string /ubuntu
d-i	debian-installer/allow_unauthenticated	string false
d-i	pkgsel/upgrade	select safe-upgrade
d-i	pkgsel/language-packs	multiselect
d-i	pkgsel/update-policy	select none
d-i	pkgsel/updatedb	boolean true
d-i	grub-installer/skip	boolean false
d-i	lilo-installer/skip	boolean false
d-i	grub-installer/only_debian	boolean true
d-i	grub-installer/with_other_os	boolean true
d-i	finish-install/keep-consoles	boolean false
d-i	finish-install/reboot_in_progress	note
d-i	cdrom-detect/eject	boolean true
d-i	debian-installer/exit/halt	boolean false
d-i	debian-installer/exit/poweroff	boolean false
d-i	pkgsel/include string byobu vim openssh-server
byobu	byobu/launch-by-default boolean true
</pre>

The above example sets the password to be ''ubuntu'', in the following line:
<pre>
d-i passwd/user-password-crypted    password $6$.1eHH0iY$ArGzKX2YeQ3G6U.mlOO3A.NaL22Ewgz8Fi4qqz.Ns7EMKjEJRIW2Pm/TikDptZpuu7I92frytmk5YeL.9fRY4.
</pre>

We can generate a different password hash using the mkpasswd program, which is found in the whois package. Here is an example of how to generate a password hash:

<pre>
mkpasswd -m sha-512
</pre>
You will be prompted for your password.

'''Do NOT use'''
<pre>
printf "password-goes-here" | mkpasswd -s -m sha-512
</pre>
'''as it will leave the password in your shells history in clear text.'''

=== Changing a Profile's preseed ===

Now, after importing an ISO, we can easily change the preseed to be used by a profile, or in the case of a Mini ISO, we need to set it. To do this, we make use of the following command:

<pre>
sudo cobbler profile edit
</pre>

However, we need to consider the following parameters:

* '''--name:''' Name of the profile for which to change the preseed.
* '''--kickstart:''' Location of the new preseed to use.
* '''--kopts:''' Additional kernel options

To change the preseed of a profile, we do as follows:

<pre>
sudo cobbler profile edit --name=natty-i386 --kickstart=/var/lib/cobbler/kickstarts/ubuntu-nqa.seed --kopts="priority=critical locale=en_US"
</pre>
