{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Compiz Fusion Plugins ==
=== Introduction ===
Configuring CompizFusion's plugins can be done using CompizConfig. The main problem using this tool is it does not give much help what the plugins do. The focus is more on usability than the wow-factor. The defaults are very ok for most users, so mostly the short description and the interesting configuration-options are discussed.

''Since writing this page takes a lot of time, I will write it paragraph by paragraph.''

=== General ===
==== General options ====
Here we can change general options. The pages "General" and "Display Settings" focus on the balance between usability, performance and quality.

==== Commands ====
Say you want to have a shortcut key for running 'qcad'
* In the commands tab command line 0 enter qcad
* In key bindings click enable
* In the pop-up window click Alt and   Ctrl  then click on Grab key combination
* enter  alt+ctrl+q
* Now when you open a terminal window and type alt+ctrl+q you will get qcad
==== Gnome Compatebility ====

=== Accessibility ===
==== ADD Helper ====

==== Color Filter ====
Shows the screen or a window in i.e. gray-scale, inverse colors ("negative") or another scheme.
See also "Negative".

You know this filter from your digital photo-camera, where you also have negative, sepia and nightview. It is more a fun-factor (when using 'grayscale' or 'sepia', but 'negative'/'negative-green' can be very useful when you need to work at night and don't want to be blinded by the fresh white background of an office-application.

==== Negative ====
Unlike "Color Filter" it only has one filter for a negative screen.

==== Opacify ====
==== Zoom Desktop ====
==== Enhanced Zoom Desktop ====
Actually the "enhanced" part is the configuration. Most configurations you will not use, except "Specific Zoom". If not already, attach key-combinations for the 3 zoom-levels ("<Super>1", "<Super>2" and "<Super>3" are common; that is "Windows-key" plus 1, 2 or 3). Since full-screen movies take a lot of processing-power in Flash, we can use this to zoom to Youtube-level. It depends on the screen-resolution what the best zoom-level is.

Another preference is the animation-speed. Compared to other plugins, zooming is rather slow. Default is 25, but if you feel like waiting when zooming is finished, try 40.

=== Desktop ===
==== Clone Output ====
==== Desktop Cube ====
==== Desktop Plane ====
==== Desktop Wall ====
==== Expo ====
==== Fade to Desktop ====
==== Rotate Cube ====
==== Show Desktop ====
==== Viewport Switcher ====
==== Widget Layer ====

=== Effects ===
==== Animations ====
==== Blur Windows ====
==== Cube Gears ====
==== Cube Refelction ====
==== Fading Windows ====
==== Minimize Effect ====
==== Motion Blur ====
==== Paint fire on the screen ====
==== Refelction ====
==== Trailfocus ====
==== Water Effect ====
==== Window Decoration ====
==== Wobbly Windows ====

=== Extras ===
==== Annotate ====
==== Benchmark ====
==== Screenshot ====
==== Splash ====
==== Window Previews ====

=== Image Loading ===
==== JPEG ====
==== Png ====
==== Svg ====
==== Text ====

=== Utility ===
==== Crash Handler ====
==== Cube Caps ====
==== Dbus ====
==== Glib ====
==== Inotify ====
==== Regex Matching ====
==== Resize Info ====
==== Scale Addons ====
==== Scale Windo Title Filter ====
==== Userspace File System ====
==== Video Playback ====
==== Workarounds ====

=== Window Management ===
==== Application Switcher ====
==== Extra WM Actions ====
==== Group and Tab Windows ====
==== Move Windows ====
==== Place Windows ====
==== Put ====
==== Ring Switcher ====
==== Scale ====
==== Shift Switcher ====
==== Snapping Windows ====
==== Windows Rules ====

=== Uncategorized ===
==== Resize Window ====
