{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

In February 2013 Transmission 2.77 was released. This mini-guide demonstrates how to build this version from source under for the latest Ubuntu release: Quantal Quetzal. I will update this guide periodically for newer versions of both Transmission and Ubuntu. Support for this guide can be found on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2099851|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>.

== Some Preparation ==

Transmission is fairly easy to compile but even so some careful preparation is required. First it is best to remove the repository version:

=== Remove the repository version ===

First we need to remove the repository version, which has been split into a few different components (we will be building instead a single package that has the gtk frontend, the cli client, the remote utility and the daemon). The following is a ''single'' command:

<pre>
sudo apt-get remove transmission transmission-daemon \
transmission-common transmission-gtk transmission-cli transmission-qt
</pre>

Next to install some dependencies and compilers:

=== Dependencies and compilers ===

Next download some compiling tools and dependencies with the following ''single'' command:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential automake autoconf checkinstall libtool \
pkg-config libcurl4-openssl-dev intltool libxml2-dev libgtk-3-dev \
libnotify-dev libglib2.0-dev libgconf2-dev libcanberra-gtk-dev libappindicator3-dev
</pre>

And now to install an updated dependency external to the Ubuntu Repositories:

=== Compiling libevent ===

The newest Transmission requires an external copy of libevent so we will download and compile this, then install it ''locally'' so as not to interfere with system software, we also create the build directory. The following is a ''single'' command:

<pre>
mkdir -v $HOME/transmission_build && cd $HOME/transmission_build && \
wget https://github.com/downloads/libevent/libevent/libevent-2.0.21-stable.tar.gz && \
tar xvf libevent-2.0.21-stable.tar.gz && \
cd libevent-2.0.21-stable && \
./configure --prefix=$HOME/transmission_build/libevent && \
make && make install
</pre>

Next to finally deal with the Transmission source code:

== Download and compile Transmission... ==

Next download the Transmission source code, open the tarball and compile and install it with the following ''single'' command:

<pre>
cd $HOME/transmission_build && \
wget http://download.transmissionbt.com/files/transmission-2.77.tar.xz&& \
tar xvf transmission-2.77.tar.xz && cd transmission-2.77 && \
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH="$HOME/transmission_build/libevent/lib/pkgconfig" && \
./configure && make && \
mkdir -vp doc-pak && \
cp -v AUTHORS COPYING INSTALL NEWS README doc-pak && \
sudo checkinstall --pakdir "$HOME/transmission_build" --backup=no --deldoc=yes \
  --fstrans=no --deldesc=yes --delspec=yes --default --pkgversion "2.77" && \
make clean
</pre>

And that is it! This gives you the newest version of a great BitTorrent program, perfect for downloading and sharing the latest versions of Ubuntu. Remember: Have Fun!!

----
CategorySoftware
