{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[Games]]</nowiki>

A guide to install CS will be available soon!

/!\ NOT COMPLETED? - PLEASE REFER TO THE LINKS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PAGE FOR TROUBLESHOOTING!

=== Wine ===
Use the Package Manager to locate Wine and install or type the following into a console:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install wine
</pre>

=== Fonts ===
The Tahoma font is required for CS:S and other fonts may also be required dependant on where the information comes from and who is asked.

==== Manual Font Installation ====
Fetch the Tahoma font and move it to the Wine font directory:
<pre>
wget www.rzs.rs.ba/Fontovi/Tahoma.TTF
mv Tahoma.TTF ~/.wine/drive_c/windows/Fonts/
</pre>

==== Winetricks Font Installation ====
Another way to fetch the needed fonts is to download winetricks from the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.winehq.org/winetricks|WineHQ]]</nowiki>. Follow WineHQ's instructions for installation. Once completed, open a console window and run one of the following commands:
<pre>
winetricks allfonts
winetricks corefonts
winetricks tahoma
</pre>
or simply type the following command and make a selection from the list provided.
<pre>
winetricks
</pre>

=== Steam ===
Download the Steam installer. Search for '''SteamInstall.msi''' on Google, or download it from <nowiki>[[http://www.steampowered.com/|steampowered.com]]</nowiki>

After the download, go to the download-directory and run this command:

<pre>
wine SteamInstall.msi
</pre>
If that doesn't work try:
<pre>
wine msiexec /i SteamInstall.msi
</pre>

=== CounterStrike: Source ===
Start Steam from your desktops application menu or, if you prefer, in a console type:
<pre>
env WINEPREFIX="/home/araknyd/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Steam\Steam.exe"
</pre>

Navigate to the Games tab and begin downloading the files for CS:S. If attempting the installation of CS:S via the installation CD's, be aware that the operation may fail due to the locking of the ROM device. There exists a couple ways to eject the drive however, experience with CD installation dictates that either set of commands will result in failure. Please refer to other guides which may be of some assistance in this matter.
<pre>
umount /media/cdrom
eject /dev/cdrom
</pre>
Change CD's
<pre>
mount /dev/cdrom /media/cdrom
</pre>
OR
<pre>
wine eject x:
</pre>
Where x represents the drive letter of the ROM device.

Once download or CD installation is complete, Launch the game.

=== Common Problems ===
==== Audio ====
If you encounter audio problems, ensure that ALSA sound system is in use, not OSS and that your sound card drivers are up to date. Also, do not use PulseAudio.

==== Video ====
If you encounter video problems such as stuttering try launching the game with the following command from a console:
<pre>
cd ~/.wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/Steam && WINEDEBUG=-all wine steam -applaunch 240 -dxlevel 80 -console -w 1152 -h 864
</pre>
Width and Height can be set to your screens resolution or removed to launch the game at the default resolution. Upon exiting the game, your system resolution may have changed to match that of the game.

FPS (Frames Per Second) may also be quite low depending on your systems hardware. Many options exist within CounterStrike:Source configuration files. Any instability or damage caused by the modification of these files is the sole responsibility of the user.
<pre>
.../Steam/steamapps/user_name/counter-strike source/cstrike/cfg/config.cfg
</pre>
For those with AMD, adding these lines may increase your FPS:
<pre>
r_sse "1"
r_sse2 "1"
r_3dnow "1"
r_mmx "1"
</pre>
For those familiar with the console within CS:S, you will recognize some/many options in this file. It is recommended that, if you modify these options, modify only those that you understand and, again, do so at your own risk.

=== External links ===

Please see this while working on the content for this site:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.linux-gamers.net/modules/wiwimod/index.php?page=HOWTO+Steam&back=HOWTO+INDEX+Wine+Games|Steam, Half-Life, Half-Life 2, Counter-Strike 1.6 and Source with Wine]]</nowiki>
* Steam4Linux (In Danish language)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxin.dk/artikler/index.php?id=8385|Steam på Linux vha Steam4linux]]</nowiki> (in Danish language)
* <nowiki>[[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=3731|WineHQ - Counter-Strike: Source Retail / Steam]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=533189|Ubuntu Forums - Direct3D HAL error - Counter-Strike Source]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.foxholeunderground.com/serendipity/index.php?/archives/1-The-Ultimate-Counter-Strike-Source-Ubuntu-Installation-Guide.html|The Ultimate Counter Strike Source Ubuntu Installation Guide]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryGames
