{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Concurrent Versions System Web Interface

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

CVSweb is a WWW interface for CVS repositories with which you can browse a file hierarchy on your browser to view each file's revision history in a very handy manner.

== Notes ==
This documentation is accurate as of April 6, 2012. These steps have been performed on Ubuntu 10.04.4 Server systems and confirmed to work as described here.

== Prerequisites ==

It's generally a good idea to start with a healthy, fully functioning, up-to-date system. This means that some combination of '''sudo apt-get update''', '''sudo apt-get upgrade''', '''sudo apt-get dist-upgrade''', and '''sudo apt-get autoremove''' should have been recently run. Please understand what the commands do before blindly running them as any system update has the potential to render a system inoperable.

I also had the Apache web server installed and functioning prior to installing CVSweb which is an important thing to note since cvsweb won't function without a properly installed and configered web server as it does not include one of its own.

== Installation ==

To install CVSweb, simply run:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install cvsweb
</pre>

== Configuration ==

Make a copy of the original '''cvsweb.conf''' file:
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/cvsweb/cvsweb.conf /etc/cvsweb/cvsweb.conf.ORIGINAL
</pre>

Now modify the '''cvsweb.conf''' file so that it looks like the following.

Before:
<pre>
.
.
.
@CVSrepositories = (
.
.
.
</pre>
After:
<pre>
.
.
.
@CVSrepositories = (
        'local'   => ['Local Repository', '/var/lib/cvs'],
.
.
.
</pre>

If the directory containing the cvsweb icons and css files is not in '''/var/www''', you have to add a symbolic link:
<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/share/cvsweb /var/www/cvsweb
</pre>

You can now access CVSweb on your server by browsing to:
<pre>
http://server_url/cgi-bin/cvsweb
</pre>

== See Also ==

A see also section can be used to point users towards other trusted Ubuntu resources. For example, if a page exists in the official documentation on http://help.ubuntu.com, you can link to such a page. This section is optional.

* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.

== External Links ==

An external links section can be used to point users towards general information about the subject matter of the page, such as a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org|wikipedia]]</nowiki> entry or project homepage. This section is optional.

* <nowiki>[[www.freebsd.org-projects-cvsweb.html|CVSweb]]</nowiki> - FreeBSD CVSweb Project.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.
* <Link> - Explanation of link.
