{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This page describes how to set up Nagios on Ubuntu. Somewhat replaces the <nowiki>[[Nagios2]]</nowiki> page.

This guide was done using Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon)

Note that this information is no longer accurate for nagios3 (the latest version distributed with Karmic, etc.). See <nowiki>[[Nagios3]]</nowiki>.

== Introduction ==
Nagios is an open source host, service and network monitoring program.  The official homepage is http://nagios.org/

== Preparations ==
If you are going to use mysql or pgsql for database store then do install that first.
<pre>
sudo aptitude install mysql-server 
</pre>
And to make the db configuration easier, please install dbconfig-common first. If you don't, then you will have to set up the database manually.
<pre>
sudo aptitude install dbconfig-common
</pre>

=== Shortcut for both ===
<pre>
sudo aptitude install dbconfig-common mysql-server
</pre>

== Installation ==

Now it depends on what database you would like to use. The package name is nagios-<database> where database can be text, pgsql or mysql.
So for installing with the mysql option use the following at the command line:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install nagios-mysql
</pre>
or use synaptic to install the package.

=== Shortcut ===
<pre>
sudo aptitude install dbconfig-common mysql-server
sudo aptitude install nagios-mysql
</pre>

== Initial configuration ==

* Set the password for the ''nagiosadmin'' user.

That's all to get it running!  Navigate to http://nagios_server/nagios2 and log in to see your systems monitor.  By default it monitors the machine it runs on and it's gateway to the Internet.

== Configurationfiles ==
* /etc/apache2/conf.d/nagios

== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[Nagios2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Zenoss]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryInternet CategoryNetworking
