{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''Note: This is untested and may break your system'''

Note: this is a quick fix that I grabbed off the prism54 mailing list, and roughly adapted to ubuntu. It may mess up your other network interfaces, and it may mess up your module configuration. I assume that you know quite a bit about linux, like how to edit files as root and stuff.

If you are using a Netgear WG511 pcmcia/cardbus wireless network card, on a Via Epia MII and you are getting errors like the following.

<pre>
May 17 13:38:16 flute kernel: prism54: probe of 0000:02:00.0 failed with error -5
May 17 13:38:17 flute pci.agent[9838]:      prism54: loaded successfully
May 17 13:40:49 flute kernel: PCI: Enabling device 0000:02:00.0 (0000 -> 0002)
May 17 13:40:49 flute kernel: ACPI: PCI interrupt 0000:02:00.0[A] -> GSI 12 (level, low) -> IRQ 12
May 17 13:40:49 flute kernel: PCI: Unable to reserve mem region #1:fffff000@de006000 for device 0000:02:00.0
May 17 13:40:49 flute kernel: prism54: probe of 0000:02:00.0 failed with error -5</pre>

or

<pre>
Loaded prism54 driver, version 1.2
PCI: Enabling device 0000:02:00.0 (0000 -> 0002)
ACPI: PCI interrupt 0000:02:00.0[A] -> GSI 12 (level, low) -> IRQ 12
prism54: PCI device memory region not configured; fix your BIOS or CardBus bridge/drivers
prism54: probe of 0000:02:00.0 failed with error - 5</pre>

then have a read of
http://prism54.org/pipermail/prism54-devel/2004-October/002051.html

the fix is slightly different for ubuntu, this works for me.

create a file /etc/modprobe.d/netgear (this may not be the correct way to do this, but it seems to work)

<pre>
install yenta-socket { /usr/local/bin/pci-fix && /bin/true; } && /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install yenta-socket
</pre>

then create a file /usr/local/bin/pci-fix

<pre>
/bin/setpci -s 0a.0 BASE_ADDRESS_3=0xde011000 2>&1 > /dev/null
/bin/setpci -s 0a.0 BASE_ADDRESS_4=0xde015000 2>&1 > /dev/null
/bin/setpci -s 0a.0 BASE_ADDRESS_5=0xde018000 2>&1 > /dev/null</pre>

then

<pre>
sudo chmod u+x /usr/local/bin/pci-fix
</pre>

then think happy hopeful thoughts and reboot.

You may need to boot with out the card plugged in, and then plug it in once you are logged in.

This seemed to make my card take eth0, where eth0 was the wired ethernet. maybe there is a way to fix this with /etc/network/interfaces ?
