{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''''Printing from Mac OS X 10.4 (Tiger; tested with 10.4.9) to a printer attached to Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty) is not difficult .'''''

On the Ubuntu side, first verify that the printer is installed and working.

Then go ''System -> Administration -> Printing''.  Jot down the name of your printer(s) as you'll need this info later. In the menu, select ''Global Settings'' and check ''Share Printers''.  '''Note the warning about opening a port.'''  Preferably you're doing this on a local network behind a firewall.

You can verify that port 631 is open by going:''System -> Administration -> Network Tools''  Determine your (local) IP Address (e.g. ''192.168.0.100'') by selecting the ''Devices'' tab and picking the right ''Network device''.  Write it down too.  Then select the ''Port Scan'' tab and scan your IP address.  The service on port 631, "IPP", is short for "Internet Printing Protocol".

So far so good; now go to the Mac.

Install the Mac version of the printer driver for your printer or if it can use Postscipt or what have you, then you'll be using that.  Run the ''Printer Setup Utility''.  Select ''Add''.  Select ''IP Printer''.  The protocol is ''IPP''.  The ''Address'' is the Ubuntu machine followed by '':631'' (e.g. 192.168.0.100:631).  The ''Queue'' is ''printers/put_your_printer_name_here''  For ''Print Using'', if you installed a driver, select it.

To test your printer, use a web browser on your Mac to go to http://localhost:631/printers (you will need to input an admin username and password).  The ''Device URI'' should read something like http://192.168.0.100:631/printers/your_printer_name_here  Select ''Print Test Page''.

Hopefully it worked for you too :)

----
'''An older version of this page follows...'''
----

How to use the printer attached to an Ubuntu Linux computer over the network from Mac OS X?

That should be easy, because Apple is using the same printing system (CUPS).

Wrong! Apple is doing it a little bit its own way, thus some tweaking is necessary. (Maybe someone has a better solution?)

I have no problem printing from MacOS X 10.3.6. I didn't need to change any settings in /etc. All I needed to do is to <nowiki>[[FrequentlyAskedQuestions#shareprinter|allow access from other computers]]</nowiki>?. After CUPS accepted connections from my network, MacOS X found my printer and showed it in the printer configuration on MacOS X under "Gemeinsam genutzte Drucker" (probably "Shared Printers" in English). -- Johannes2

1. No <nowiki>[[samba]]</nowiki> necessary! Follow the Wiki FAQ for configuring CUPS, and restart cupsys (/etc/init.d/cupsys restart).

2. At your Mac, add a new printer (TCP/IP printer over IPP), and invent a nice name in the printer address field (you will justly get the answer that this is not a valid address, but you will not find a working valid address anyway!). Don't forget to select a printer model as usual!

3. So far it was easy, but now it is getting ugly: on your Mac open the file /etc/cups/cupsd.conf in the editor of your choice (don't forget to "sudo"!) and add #'s in front of the following lines (I have not invented this!):

<pre>
<Limit GET>
AuthType Basic
AuthClass System
</Limit></pre>

4. restart cups on the Mac with:sudo killall -HUP cupsd

5. Open the page http://localhost:631/ in Safari, follow the link "printers", find the new printer and press "modify". Due to your manipulations you have not been asked for a username or password...

6. You will see that your printer has an URI address like: "ipp://<name>:631/ipp". During "modification" change this to the valid name: "ipp://<IP address of linux machine>:631/printers/<Printer-Name>", leave the rest as is.

7. Test, if everything works

8. Don't forget to undo your modifications you did in step 3, otherwise your Mac printing system is not protected!

Hope that helps!

From BaxterWeatherby Tue Mar 8 00:30:59 +0000 2005
From: Baxter Weatherby
Date: Tue, 08 Mar 2005 00:30:59 +0000
Subject: Easier Way
Message-ID: <20050308003059+0000@www.ubuntulinux.org>

An easier way(in my opinion) is to just edit the /etc/cups/printers.conf file.

Mine read:
<pre>
<DefaultPrinter _192.168.0.111>
Info 192.168.0.111
DeviceURI ipp://192.168.0.111/ipp/ML-1710
State Idle
Accepting Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
</Printer>
</pre>

and I just edited it to read:
<pre>
<DefaultPrinter _192.168.0.111>
Info 192.168.0.111
DeviceURI ipp://192.168.0.111:631/printers/ML-1710
State Idle
Accepting Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
</Printer>
</pre>
Then issue a "killall -HUP cupsd" and that's it. You should now be able to print to your Ubuntu printer.
