{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu 24.04 LTS is the version of the Ubuntu operating system released in April 2024. The development codename given to this release is "Noble Numbat".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 24.04 LTS ("Noble Numbat") from either Ubuntu 22.04 LTS ("Jammy Jellyfish") or Ubuntu 23.10 ("Mantic Minotaur").
* Upgrades will not be available immediately following the release of Ubuntu 24.04 LTS. Upgrades from Ubuntu 23.10 will be enabled shortly after the release, once any known upgrade issues are resolved. Upgrades from Ubuntu 22.04 LTS are not enabled until the release of Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS. This is currently scheduled for August 2024. 
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/NobleNumbat/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 24.04 LTS]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 22.04 LTS or 23.10, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 22.04 LTS or 23.10 to 24.04 LTS ==

=== Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 24.04 LTS ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''update-manager''' application.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings...''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Confirm the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" option is set to "For any new version", and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them. /* , and press '''Check''' again after that is complete. */
# Run '''update-manager'''.
# If you want to upgrade early, before upgrades are officially supported, you can pass the '''-d''' option when running '''update-manager'''. Do this at your own risk. It is advised to check the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/NobleNumbat/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 24.04 LTS]]</nowiki> before doing so.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Ubuntu Servers ===

1. Install `ubuntu-release-upgrader-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-release-upgrader-core
</pre>
# Make sure the Prompt line in /etc/update-manager/release-upgrades is set to 'normal' if you want non-LTS upgrades, or set to 'lts' if you only want LTS upgrades. 
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade
</pre>
# If you want to upgrade early, before upgrades are officially supported, you can pass the '''-d''' option when running '''do-release-upgrade'''. Do this at your own risk. It is advised to check the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/NobleNumbat/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 24.04 LTS]]</nowiki> before doing so.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Edubuntu ===

Edubuntu follows the same instructions as Ubuntu Desktop.

=== Lubuntu ===

Please refer to https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/D/upgrading.html for our instructions on upgrading. You may note it contains no new details, but may be helpful if upgrade isn't found or other issues.

=== Ubuntu Budgie ===

Please refer to https://ubuntubudgie.org/2024/04/ubuntu-budgie-24-04-release-notes/ for our instructions on upgrading.

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

Please refer to https://ubuntustudio.org/ubuntu-studio-24-04-lts-release-notes/#upgrading for instructions on upgrading.

=== Ubuntu Kylin ===

Please refer to https://ubuntukylin.com/news/ubuntukylin2404-en.html for instructions on upgrading.

=== Xubuntu ===

Please refer to https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/24.04/upgrading for instructions on upgrading.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ManticMinotaur/ReleaseNotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
