{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent page: <nowiki>[[Evolution]]</nowiki>

=== Introduction ===
This page provides instructions, packages and configuration files for
syncing Nokia phones with the Evolution suite.

This guide assumes you're using Ubuntu Hardy or later. The software
being used is pretty new so no guarantees it will work with all devices.

=== Upstream Overview ===
The free software phone synchronization situation is a bit of a mess.
The main alternatives are four somewhat competing implementations:
*** SyncEvolution: http://syncevolution.org/
*** Opensync: http://opensync.org/ 
*** Gnokii: http://gnokii.org/ 
*** Conduit: http://www.conduit-project.org/

There is also an older project called Multisync (http://multisync.org)
which used to be standalone and now is just a gtk GUI to opensync (so it supports the same devices). Notice it is available as package "multisync0.90", while package "multisync" is the old obsolete non-opensync-based one.

=== What software should I use for my phone? ===
General compatibility information:

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.gnokii.org/index.php/Config#From_Nokia|Gnokii Compatibility]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.opensuse.org/OpenSync/SyncML-OBEX-Client#Nokia|Opensync Compatibility]]</nowiki>

Look up your phone in the following list:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Model
| Tested with
| USB
| Bluetooth
|-
| Nokia 3250
| Opensync
| 
| 
|-
| Nokia 6120 Classic
| <nowiki>[[http://www.opensync.org/wiki/Nokia_6120_classic|Opensync]]</nowiki>
| 
| Channel 13, works but hangs while disconnecting
|-
| Nokia 6220 Classic
| Opensync
| Works
| Channel 10, but can't get it to work
|-
| Nokia 6220 Classic
| <nowiki>[[http://syncevolution.org/wiki/compatibility-nokia-6220-classic|EvolutionSync]]</nowiki>
| Works
| Works perfectly
|-
| Nokia 6310i
| Gnokii Opensync?
| 
| 
|-
| Nokia n73
| Opensync
| 
| 
|}

=== How to do it ===
Depending on your phone model's entry above, one of the following instructions will work best for you. If your phone isn't listed, try them in order:
* <nowiki>[[Opensync]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Gnokii]]</nowiki>

=== Other resources ===
* Old: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=260676&highlight=nokia+sync|Feisty Nokia n73 HOWTO]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHardware CategoryBluetooth CategoryEmail CategoryInternet
