{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Beware that the following packages are not free but if you're facing problems with the freeNX packages, it may be a good solution:

Setting up Nomachine NX packages on Ubuntu is now quite easy:

=== Server ===

==== Installation ====

1. Launch Ubuntu desktop or the server edition and install ubuntu-desktop
 <pre>
 sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop 
 </pre>
1. Download the Nomachine NX packages for Ubuntu (http://www.nomachine.com/download)
 (versions as of 2011-07-25)
 <pre>
 wget http://64.34.161.181/download/3.5.0/Linux/nxclient_3.5.0-7_i386.deb
 wget http://64.34.161.181/download/3.5.0/Linux/nxnode_3.5.0-3_i386.deb
 wget http://64.34.161.181/download/3.5.0/Linux/FE/nxserver_3.5.0-4_i386.deb
 </pre>
1. Install the packages all at the same time: client, node, server
 <pre>
sudo dpkg -i nxnode_3.5.0-3_i386.deb nxserver_3.5.0-4_i386.deb nxclient_3.5.0-7_i386.deb
 </pre>

==== Security ====

By default, the SSH key is a shared key amongst all NX clients.  This is OK, but if you want added security, generate your own unique key as follows.

 (!) Caveat: You'll have to modify your NX client wherever you're connecting from to use the custom key.

1. Import localhost key
 <pre> 
sudo cp /usr/NX/etc/keys/node.localhost.id_dsa.pub /tmp/node.localhost.id_dsa.pub.save 
sudo /usr/NX/bin/nxnode --keyadd /tmp/node.localhost.id_dsa.pub.save
 </pre>
 (!) WARNING: Don't directly import the file /usr/NX/etc/keys node.localhost.id_dsa.pub. First copy it, otherwise it will be deleted after the importation).
1. Regenerate new SSH key for NX user as the default is common for all others
 <pre>
sudo /usr/NX/bin/nxserver --keygen
 </pre>
1. Change the owner of the nx user public key on the server
 <pre>
sudo chown nx:root /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2
 </pre>
1. If you are going to use it with e.g. <nowiki>[[http://aws.amazon.com/ec2|Amazon ec2]]</nowiki>, then NX's hard link between authorized_keys2 and the default.id_dsa.key will create problems when bundling AMIs.
 <pre>
sudo cp /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2 /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2.tmp
sudo rm /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2 
sudo cp /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2.tmp /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2
 </pre>
1. Check that the name conforms to the filename given in the /etc/ssh/sshd_config file. With the default Ubuntu SSH setting this is not neccessary, but someone might have changed it to e.g.: <code>authorized_keys</code>
 <pre>
sudo chmod 0644 /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2
sudo mv /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys2 /usr/NX/home/nx/.ssh/authorized_keys --
 </pre>

==== Additional Potential Steps for Consideration ====

===== SSH Password Login =====
1. You might need to enable password login into SSH.  We can do this by editing SSH configuration:
 <pre>
sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config
 </pre>
1. Configure the following values:
 <pre>
PasswordAuthentication yes
UsePam yes
 </pre>

===== SSH Allow NX =====
1. If you have restricted SSH with <code>AllowUsers</code> you need to add <code>nx</code> to the list:
 <pre>
AllowUsers nx ''youruser'''
 </pre>
1. It may be necessary to remove a line in SSH's your known host file for your user on the server, or remove it all together(reset it):
 <pre>
sudo rm /home/$USER/.ssh/known_hosts
 </pre>
1. Restart services
 <pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart
sudo /etc/init.d/nxserver restart
 </pre>
1. Check if your user will work:
 <pre>
 sudo /usr/NX/bin/nxserver --usercheck ''youruser''
 </pre>

=== Client ===

# Install the client on your local machine. 
# Start it either via <code>Applications/Internet/NX Client for Linux/NX Connection Wizard</code> or via cmd line; <pre>
  /usr/NX/bin/nxclient --wizard &
 </pre>
# Enter the hostname and so on till you get prompted for login.
# Enter your username and password.
# Import the new nx key by:
## Downloading the new DSA key from the server:<pre>
 scp ''SERVERNAME'':/usr/NX/share/keys/default.id_dsa.key \
     ''SERVERNAME''.id_dsa.key
 </pre>
## Then click on ''Configure...'', then ''Key'' under ''General'' and then on ''Import''.
## Find the file <code>''SERVERNAME''.id_dsa.key</code> and click save, save then Ok.
# Login should now hopefully work....

References:
* http://soniahamilton.wordpress.com/2008/01/29/howto-setup-nomachinenx-on-ubuntu/
* http://alestic.com/2009/11/ec2-karmic-desktop
