{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== Ubuntu 7.04 ===

Instructions for Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn
 
==== Steps ====

# Download nomadII-utils from: <nowiki>[[http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/nomadii/nomadII-utils-0.8-2.i386.rpm]]</nowiki>
# You will need ''alien'' to convert the .rpm package into a .deb one<pre>
sudo apt-get install alien
sudo alien nomadII-utils-0.8-2.i386.rpm
</pre>
 0. Install nomadII-utils: <pre>
sudo dpkg -i nomadii-utils_0.8-3_i386.deb
</pre>
 0. You must create a symbolic link in order to help nomadii-utils find the libreadline library: <pre>
sudo ln -s /lib/libreadline.so.5 /lib/libreadline.so.4
</pre>
# Nomadii-utils needs termcap compatibility. Download the following packages and place them in the same folder: <nowiki>[[http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/t/termcap-compat/termcap-compat_1.2.3_i386.deb|termcap-compat]]</nowiki>  <nowiki>[[http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/libc/libc/libc5_5.4.46-15_i386.deb|libc5]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/ld.so/ldso_1.9.11-15_i386.deb|ldso]]</nowiki>
# Install termcap-compat: <pre>
sudo dpkg -i ldso_1.9.11-15_i386.deb 
sudo dpkg -i libc5_5.4.46-15_i386.deb 
sudo dpkg -i termcap-compat_1.2.3_i386.deb
</pre>
# Connect your Nomad II device.
# Run nomadii-utils executable ('''not''' as root): <pre>
nomadii
</pre>
 0. Type ''help'' at the nomad prompt to get a list of useful commands. 

=== Ubuntu 7.10 ===

Instructions for Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon

'''usbfs''' is not activated by default in Gutsy. After the instructions above, follow these extra steps:

<pre>
sudo nano -w /etc/init.d/mountdevsubfs.sh
</pre>

Find the following lines:
<pre>
### mkdir -p /dev/bus/usb/.usbfs
### domount usbfs "" /dev/bus/usb/.usbfs -obusmode=0700,devmode=0600,listmode=0644
### ln -s .usbfs/devices /dev/bus/usb/devices
### mount --rbind /dev/bus/usb /proc/bus/usb
</pre>

Uncomment them so that look like this:<pre>
    mkdir -p /dev/bus/usb/.usbfs
    domount usbfs "" /dev/bus/usb/.usbfs -obusmode=0700,devmode=0600,listmode=0644
    ln -s .usbfs/devices /dev/bus/usb/devices
    mount --rbind /dev/bus/usb /proc/bus/usb
</pre>

Press ''Ctrl+X'' to exit and save the changes.

Start mountdevsubfs:<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/mountdevsubfs.sh start
</pre>

Done. You can run ''nomadii'' now.

==== Kubuntu users ====
Check this out: <nowiki>[[http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=17624|Nomad II KDE Transfer Service Menu]]</nowiki>

----
References:
* <nowiki>[[http://nomadii.sourceforge.net/|Nomad II Linux Driver]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-44886.html|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virtualbox/+bug/151585|Bug #151585]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryAudio CategoryHardware
