{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''nVidia <nowiki>[[http://www.nvidia.com/page/gpu_mobo.html|GeForce]]</nowiki> 6150 GPU onboard chipset'''

----

'''For Ubuntu version 16.04 and 18.04''': The proprietary driver can be selected during installation. If you do this everything should work after the first reboot and you don't have to read further. 

----

Purpose of this post is to assist in activating proprietary driver for onboard 6150 DVI connection to LCD with HDMI connect.

{<pre>
Maverick 10.10
Linux version 2.6.35-28-generic
NVIDIA GLX Module  260.19.06 
</pre>}
The nouveau driver installed by default recognizes LCD monitors connected by DVI/HDMI. This default driver cannot fully utilize the 3D potential of NVIDIA graphics chips or provide 2D acceleration for newer cards. The default resolution choices tend to be below the capabilities of monitor/tv and chipset.

If you are considering the installation of the proprietary drivers found under System, Administration, Additional Drivers some preliminary work will ease the process.

Without some changes to the xorg.conf file many people have experienced over-scan issues and blank or black screen on reboot post driver install.

Before choosing install look in Log File Viewer under System Administration for Xorg log. The Nouveau driver logs some useful information about your graphics system. Look for chipset info: "NVIDIA NV4e" and the lines after "Supported standard timings".

Example:
{<pre>
17.661] (II) NOUVEAU(0): #0: hsize: 1280  vsize 1024  refresh: 60  vid: 32897
17.661] (II) NOUVEAU(0): #1: hsize: 1360  vsize 765  refresh: 60  vid: 49291
</pre>}
You can read more about EDID <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_display_identification_data|here]]</nowiki>.

The hsize and vsize should be close to resolutions supported by your monitor. Verify these by looking in the manual for the monitor or online at manufacturers website. The supported resolutions have to be manually added to xorg.conf.

Look for the xorg.conf file under /etc/X11/xorg.conf. You can add, if not there or edit, by opening the terminal application found under accessories and typing $
{<pre>
 sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>}

Add or edit the Screen section of xorg.conf. This example applies to 720p 32" widescreen lcd tv.
{<pre>
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option	"UseDisplayDevice" "DFP"
	Subsection	"Display"
	   Modes	"1360x768" "1280x720" "720x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
</pre>}

Substitute the display Modes shown above for the resolutions supported by your LCD monitor. The first mode "1360x768" will be the default read by nVidia driver upon installation.

The option "Usedisplaydevice DFP" will select the dvi connected LCD. This should prevent the black screen upon reboot.

After you've saved the file, activate the driver.

Additional information for nVidia with XOrg commands <nowiki>[[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/README/appendix-b.html|here]]</nowiki>.
