{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== FTBFS ==

=== clanlib ===

1. Patch:

<pre>
  export QUILT_PATCHES=debian/patches
  quilt push -a
  quilt new 310_missing_libraries.diff
</pre>

2. Then add the files we need to patch:

<pre>
  quilt add ./Sources/GL/canvas_opengl.cpp

and add:

## include <stdio.h>
</pre>

3. Second file

<pre>
  quilt add ./Sources/GL/GLX/input_device_linuxevent.cppand 

and add:

## include <stdio.h>
</pre>

4. Third File:

<pre>
  quilt add ./Sources/GL/GLX/input_device_xinput.cpp

and add:
## include <stdio.h>
</pre>

5. Finish:

<pre>
  quilt refresh
  quilt pop -a
</pre>

== Merges ==

=== Snort ===

1. '''Adding the Patch (For the first time)'''

* Setting Up:
<pre>
mkdir debian/patches
export QUILT_PATCHES=debian/patches
touch debian/patches/series
</pre>

* Patching:

<pre>
quilt push -a
quilt new ubuntu-mode-permission
quilt add src/preprocessors/flow/portscan/server_stats.c
* * MAKE THE CHANGE HERE **
From:  fd = open(filename, O_CREAT|O_TRUNC|O_SYNC|O_WRONLY);
To:    fd = open(filename, O_CREAT|O_TRUNC|O_SYNC|O_WRONLY, 0644);
quilt refresh
quilt pop -a
</pre>

2. '''debian/rules:''' 

Adding the rules to apply the patch (This is only when there's no patching system):

* Add at the top:
<pre>
include /usr/share/quilt/quilt.make
</pre>

* Change:
<pre>
-clean: clean-sources
+clean: unpatch clean-sources
</pre>

* Change:
<pre>
-configure-stamp:
+configure-stamp: $(QUILT_STAMPFN)
</pre>

=== Sensors-applet ===

=== Geekast ===

=== Usbmount ===

=== Paraview (Wont build) ===

# debian/control: Merging and adding ffmpeg to debian Build-Depends
# debian/control: Drop qt4-dev-tools (>= 4.3.3-2) from Recommends
# debian/patches/series: Dropping ubuntu-use-ffmpeg-swscaler, gcc4.3.patch and ffmpeg_writer.patch, keeping use-ffmpeg-swscaler.patch.

1. Python transition: 

* We looked for the changes
<pre>
grep -sr python2.5 *
</pre>

* then we made the changes
<pre>
sed -i -e 's/python2.5/python/g' debian/paraview.lintian*
</pre>

* then we updated rules
<pre>
debian/rules -> PVER = 2.6
</pre>

* then updated README.debian

=== Firebug ===
=== Avarice ===

debian/control:
* Use Build-Depends and Build-Conflics of Debian.
debian/changelog:
* Keep track of the changes.

=== Irssi ===
=== OpenVPN ===
=== Qemu ===
=== DRBD ===

debian/control:

* fixed XSBC-Original-Maintainer
* fixed Uploaders
* Build-Depends: Kept ubuntu entry because debian has dpatch duplicated.

scripts/drbd:

* Dropped: ". /lib/lsb/init-functions" because it is duplicated
* Resolved conflict on: log_daemon_msg "Restarting all DRBD resources". Took debians. It was a problem of TABs

debian/changelog:

* Removed entries from debian unstable below (<0.6.12-5)

drbd/linux/drbd.h:
* Revert change (so it is the same as debian).
<pre>
   -# define CN_IDX_DRBD 0x6
   +# define CN_IDX_DRBD 0x4
</pre>
* After revert, we need to create a patch to make the change:
<pre>
   -# define CN_IDX_DRBD 0x4
   +# define CN_IDX_DRBD 0x6
</pre>

Process:

* dpatch-edit-patch ubuntu-cn-idx.dpatch
* make the change in: drbd/linux/drbd.h
* exit
* vim debian/patches/00list
* add: ubuntu-cn-idx.dpatch
