{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Instructions to install Unreal Tournament.

== Unreal Tournament ==
URL: http://www.unrealtournament.com/
<<BR>>
=== Installation (Loki) ===
URL: http://www.liflg.org/?catid=6&gameid=51
<<BR>>
The Loki installer provides updated OpenGL renderers.
==== Original CD ====
<pre>
Download http://www.liflg.org/?what=dl&catid=6&gameid=51&filename=unreal.tournament_436-multilanguage.run
chmod +x unreal.tournament_436-multilanguage.run
./unreal.tournament_436-multilanguage.run
</pre>
==== GOTY CD ====
<pre>
Download http://www.liflg.org/?what=dl&catid=6&gameid=51&filename=unreal.tournament_436-multilanguage.goty.run
chmod +x unreal.tournament_436-multilanguage.goty.run
./unreal.tournament_436-multilanguage.goty.run
</pre>

==== Uninstall ====

In the main game directory, there is a script called '''uninstall'''. Run it in terminal.

=== Troubleshooting ===

==== Checksum error at installing ====

You may get an error like this:

<pre>
Verifying archive integrity...tail: cannot open `+6' for reading: No such file or directory
Error in check sums [number1] [number2]
</pre>

This is caused by a deprecated syntax for tail that the installer uses. To fix it, try running this in the terminal before running the installer:

<pre>
export _POSIX2_VERSION=199209
</pre>

==== Error loading shared libraries ====
If you get an error when you run the '''.run''' installer that looks like this:
<pre>
error while loading shared libraries: libgtk-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
</pre>
You will need to install the old libgtk along with its dependencies.  The next few steps assume you are using a processor compatible with i386 architecture. To download the library and its dependencies visit <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glib1.2/1.2.10-19build1/+build/462715|Launchpad page for libglib]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+1.2/1.2.10-18.1build2/+build/484191|Launchpad page for libgtk+1.2]]</nowiki>. Download them via '''Built files'''. You only need '''libglib1.2ldbl_1.2.10-19build1_i386.deb''', '''libgtk1.2_1.2.10-18.1build2_i386.deb''' and '''libgtk1.2-common_1.2.10-18.1build2_all.deb'''. If you download the files to one folder, you can install them via console:

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i libgtk1.2-common_1.2.10-18.1build2_all.deb libglib1.2ldbl_1.2.10-19build1_i386.deb libgtk1.2_1.2.10-18.1build2_i386.deb
</pre>

The installer can run on amd64 architecture if the amd64 versions of the above packages are installed.

==== Game is too fast ====
If you have CPU scaling enabled, the game may run very fast (or very slow, yet responsive). This may be due to it detecting the wrong CPU speed. One way to correct this is by adding the '''CPU Frequency Scaling Monitor''' applet to your panel. Before launching the game click on the applet and select '''Performance'''

If you have KDE, you may need to install the utilities '''cpufrequtils''' and use its command line programs: 

<pre>
sudo apt-get install cpufrequtils
</pre>

Before starting the game, set the cpu speed to '''performance''' with:

<pre>
sudo cpufreq-set -g performance
</pre>

and after the game to '''ondemand''' with:

<pre>
sudo cpufreq-set -g ondemand
</pre>

This can be setup in the local '''./ut''' startup script (or create it) to start the game. Example:

<pre>
sudo cpufreq-set -g performance
/opt/ut/ut
sudo cpufreq-set -g ondemand
</pre>
A desktop shortcut to the script makes a perfect experience. Remember to link the UT icon to your desktop shortcut.

NOTE: ''An older solution had the startup script use a so called '''utbusy''' script to "slow down" the cpu.  The above solution is a cleaner, better solution.''

==== Bad or no sound ====
If you get errors like
<pre>
open /dev/dsp: No such file or directory
</pre>
or you have sound lag or no sound, you have two options.

The first option is to install '''osspd-alsa''' or '''osspd-pulseaudio'''. This creates '''/dev/dsp''' as a proxy to stream audio from UT to alsa or pulseaudio respectively.

The second is to open '''/home/username/.loki/System/UnrealTournament.ini''' and replace

<pre>
AudioDevice=ALAudio.ALAudioSubsystem
</pre>

with

<pre>
AudioDevice=Audio.GenericAudioSubsystem
</pre>

Then run the game with '''padsp''':

<pre>
padsp ./ut
</pre>

==== ERROR: ld.so: with padsp ====

If you are using 64-bit system, you might still get no sound.  The startup may show the following error when using '''padsp''':

<pre>
ERROR: ld.so: object '/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pulseaudio/libpulsedsp.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded: ignored.
</pre>

To solve this, install the 32-bit version if not already installed:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install libpulsedsp:i386
</pre>

Then, copy the padsp script to a local (or global) '''padsp32''' file and edit the lines that set the LD_PRELOAD variable to point to the 32-bit version of the library (use the '''locate''' command). Example:
<pre>
...
if [ x"$LD_PRELOAD" eq x ] ; then
  LD_PRELOAD="/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/pulseaudio/libpulsedsp.so"
else
  LD_PRELOAD="$LD_PRELOAD /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/pulseaudio/libpulsedsp.so"
fi
...
</pre>

Finally, edit the '''./ut''' startup script to use the '''padsp23''' version. Putting it together with the cpu scaling solution, we have the example script:

<pre>
sudo cpufreq-set -g performance
./padsp32 /opt/ut/ut
sudo cpufreq-set -g ondemand
</pre>

NOTE: ''An older solution was to "replace" the 64-bit version with the 32-bit version:

1. Move (i.e., backup) the 64-bit version of the library:

<pre>
sudo mv /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pulseaudio/libpulsedsp.so /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pulseaudio/libpulsedsp.so_x86_64
</pre>

2. Download the 32-bit version from launchpad. Extract libpulsedsp.so with the use of Archive manager like Ark or FileRoller and move it to /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pulseaudio/''

==== Character disappears when hit ====
This is due to Screen Flashes being turned on. To solve this problem navigate to your Unreal Tournament .ini, found in:

<pre>
~/.loki/ut/System/UnrealTournament.ini
</pre>

Find section '''[SDLDrv.SDLClient]''' and change the following line:

<pre>
ScreenFlashes=True
</pre>

to:

<pre>
ScreenFlashes=False
</pre>

==== Anti-cheat Software ====
Some Anti-cheat components do not install by them self. That's why the client validity test fails and you get kicked. If the server you are playing on is using ACE (AntiCheatEngine for Unreal Tournament), then you can manually download the binaries and put them in to your UT/System folder.

URL: http://utgl.unrealadmin.org/ace/

=== Installation Bonus Packs (Loki) ===
URL: http://www.liflg.org/?catid=6&gameid=51
<<BR>>
The Loki installer provides an easy to use installer for the Unreal Tournament bonus packs.
<pre>
Download http://www.liflg.org/?what=dl&catid=6&gameid=51&filename=unreal.tournament.official.bonus.pack.collection.run
chmod +x unreal.tournament.official.bonus.pack.collection.run
./unreal.tournament.official.bonus.pack.collection.run
</pre>

=== Playing ===
<pre>
./ut
</pre>

----
CategoryGames
