{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Instructions to install native port of Unreal Tournament 2004 created by Ryan 'icculus' Gordon.

== Unreal Tournament 2004 ==
URL: http://www.unrealtournament.com/ (Now only meant for Unreal Tournament 3)
=== Installation ===
URL: http://www.liflg.org/?catid=6&gameid=51

==== Demo ====
URL: http://treefort.icculus.org/ut2004/UT2004-LNX-Demo3334.run.gz

URL: http://www.portablelinuxgames.org/?id=ut2004

==== Editor's Choice Edition (DVD) ====
<pre>
mount /cdrom
cd /cdrom
./linux-installer.sh
</pre>

==== Midway DVD version ====
http://forums.epicgames.com/showthread.php?t=558146

=== Installation Update ===
==== Official ====
URL: http://www.unrealtournament.com/ut2004/downloads.html (dead link)

==== Mirrored ====
URL: http://treefort.icculus.org/ut2004/ut2004-lnxpatch3369-2.tar.bz2

URL: http://liandri.beyondunreal.com/Unreal_Tournament_2004#Essential_Files

URL: http://www.atomicgamer.com/files/39933/ut2004-lnxpatch3369-2-tar-bz2
<pre>
Download ut2004-lnxpatch3355.tar.bz2
mv ut2004-lnxpatch3355.tar.bz2 /<path to ut2004 dir>
cd /<path to ut2004 dir>/
tar xvjf ut2004-lnxpatch3355.tar.bz2
</pre>
==== Loki Installer ====
URL: http://liflg.org/?catid=6&gameid=17
<pre>
coming soon
</pre>

=== Installation Mega Pack ===
==== Official ====
URL: http://www.unrealtournament.com/ut2004/downloads.html (dead link)

==== Mirrored ====
URL: http://treefort.icculus.org/ut2004/ut2004megapack-linux.tar.bz2

URL: http://liandri.beyondunreal.com/Unreal_Tournament_2004#Essential_Files

The megapack is just a zip-exe.
 Install UT2004 as above.
 Then apply bonus pack..
<pre>
mv ut2004megapack.exe ut2004megapack.zip
unzip ut2004megapack.zip
cd UT2004MegaPack
sudo cp -Rf *  /usr/local/games/ut2004
rm -r ./*

</pre>
 Then update with the patch as above.

==== Loki Installer ====
URL: http://liflg.org/?catid=6&gameid=17
<pre>
coming soon
</pre>

=== Installation Community Bonus Pack ===
URL: http://www.planetunreal.com/cbp/
==== Loki Installer ====
URL: http://liflg.org/?catid=6&gameid=17
<pre>
coming soon
</pre>

=== Startup troubleshooting ===
==== libSDL-1.2.so.0 not found ====

You may receive an error while trying to run the game:
<pre>
./ut2004-bin: error while loading shared libraries: ./libSDL-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
</pre>

'''Solution:''' Install libsdl1.2debian from the repositories and make a symlink of the library in your UT System folder

<pre>
ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libSDL-1.2.so.0 /path/to/your/folder/UT2004/System/libSDL-1.2.so.0 
</pre>

or

<pre>
ln -s /usr/lib/libSDL-1.2.so.0 /path/to/your/folder/UT2004/System/libSDL-1.2.so.0 
</pre>

==== libstdc++.so.5 not found ====

You may receive an error while trying to run the game:
<pre>
./ut2004-bin: error while loading shared libraries: libstdc++.so.5: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
</pre>

For older (<2009) and newer (>=meerkat) versions of ubuntu, the libstdc++5 is in the repository and can be installed:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libstdc++5
</pre>

If you are using a version which doesn't include libstdc++5:

'''Solution:''' Download the Jaunty version from:

<pre>
http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/i386/libstdc++5/download
</pre>

==== No Audio ====

If you have no audio and see this in the logs:

<pre>
Error: Audio initialization failed.
</pre>

'''Solution:''' Install  libopenal from the repository and symlink OpenAl to the System folder, but beware, the name of the symlink '''must be''' openal.so:

<pre>
ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libopenal.so.1 /path/to/your/folder/UT2004/System/openal.so
</pre>

or

<pre>
ln -s /usr/lib/libopenal.so.1 /path/to/your/folder/UT2004/System/openal.so
</pre>

If you have no audio and see this message in the output:
<pre>
open /dev/[sound/]mixer: Input/output error
</pre>

'''Solution:''' Use the <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/hardy/man1/padsp.1.html|OSS to Pulse Audio wrapper (padsp)]]</nowiki> to reroute the ut2004 audio into the PA system. Prefix ut2004 with padsp:
<pre>
padsp ./ut2004
</pre>

==== CD-key not found ====

If you installed the game via Wine (Unreal Anthology) and manually patched it later to receive Linux support, you may receive this error:

<pre>
appMsgf(): Your CD key appears to be invalid.  You will need to reinstall the game and enter your CD key to fix this problem.
Signal: SIGTRAP [trap]
Aborting.
</pre>

'''Solution:''' To fix this, create a file with the name cdkey (no extension) in your /~.ut2004/System/ folder. Put the CD-key in the file exactly as it is printed on the CD case. Save the file and set permissions to -r- -r- --- so only you and your group can view it.

==== Dynamic Shadows are disabled ====

This is the result of a defect in the final patch. Follow the first instructions <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6250055&postcount=3|in this post]]</nowiki> to enable dynamic shadows.
----
CategoryGames
