{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
"<nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/users/gconf-editor/|Configuration Editor]]</nowiki> - Directly edit your entire configuration database." The Configuration Editor is often referred to as "GConf".

"''The GNOME Desktop and many applications use GConf to store user preferences and system configuration data.  GConf provides a central storage location for preferences, simplifying configuration management for users and system administrators. More information about GConf can be found in the GNOME System Administrator's Guide.''" (<nowiki>[[https://help.gnome.org/users/gconf-editor/|Configuration Editor Manual]]</nowiki>, Introduction, Version 2.8)

== Installation ==

Install the <nowiki>[[apt:gconf-editor|gconf-editor]]</nowiki> package from the Universe repository.

Note that gconf-editor is not the recommended way to set desktop preferences in modern Ubuntu releases.

== Usage ==
=== Launching the Program ===
The Configuration Editor is hidden by default in the System Tools submenu. Access it by pressing Alt+F2 and typing <code>gconf-editor</code>. Under '''apps''' are the settings for all applications that use Gconf to store user preferences.

=== Exploring the Editor ===
The configuration editor will load up with a left hand window that displays settings in a tree format. The main headings are '''apps''', '''desktop''', '''schemas''', and '''system'''.
* Windows users will note this is similar to the Windows registry editor, but should note that the settings are not stored in a registry like database.

==== apps ====
Settings for various applications are in this section. Some of the sub-sections include:
* compiz
* evolution
* gksu
* nautilus
* metacity
* panel
* Many others
==== desktop ====
Settings for the the gnome desktop are included in this section. The two sections are '''gnome''' and '''pgp'''.
==== schemas ====
The schema section is the schema of the other gconf-editor tree sections
==== system ====
The system section contains settings for the system. Some of the sub-sections include:
* dns_sd
* gstreamer
* http_proxy
* networking
* smb
* storage

== External Links ==
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gconf-editor|Gconf-editor's Wikipedia entry]]</nowiki>

----
CategorySoftwareDefault CategorySoftware
