{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


There are several methods of obtaining Ubuntu.

== Downloading the Ubuntu ISO ==

# Go to the <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/download|Official Download Page]]</nowiki>
# Click on the '''Ubuntu Desktop''' link.
** Note that the Ubuntu ISO for PCs only supports 64-bit systems. All 32-bit versions of Ubuntu are no longer supported. If you're trying to install Ubuntu on a 32-bit system, it is recommended that you <nowiki>[[https://www.debian.org/ | use Debian instead]]</nowiki>, as Ubuntu is based on Debian and Debian still supports 32-bit PCs.
# Click the '''Download''' button to begin the download of the ISO file (you may need to scroll down to see it).
# Either <nowiki>[[BurningIsoHowto|burn the ISO on to a blank DVD]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[Installation-FromUSBStick|burn the ISO on to a USB key]]</nowiki>.

== Obtaining from Other Suppliers ==
* You can <nowiki>[[http://shop.canonical.com/ | buy a CD/DVD]]</nowiki> from Ubuntu.
* UbuntuDistributors can often ship Ubuntu CD-ROMS and DVDs faster than the Shipit service.
* You can buy <nowiki>[[UbuntuPre-installed|Ubuntu Pre-installed]]</nowiki> from a number of places. 
* Local <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_user_group|Linux User Groups (LUG)]]</nowiki> may supply copies of Ubuntu at their meetings.
* Libraries often stock software on CD-ROM.
* Computer magazines may contain Ubuntu CD-ROMS and DVDs.

== Other ==

=== LTS versions ===

Ubuntu releases a new version every six months.
The LTS abbreviation, meaning "Long-Term Support," designates that the version will be supported for 5 years on servers and desktops. By contrast, other versions are supported for only 6 months. This does not necessarily mean that the LTS version is more stable than other versions, just that it is updated and supported for a longer period than the other versions. 

=== Development versions ===
As the next Ubuntu release draws closer, preview versions of it will be released on CD. These development releases may be very unstable (especially in the early stages of the cycle). If you are interested in helping test the release (and reporting or fixing bugs), you might be interested in installing these releases. However, most users will NOT want to use a development version.

To download daily CD images using zsync, see <nowiki>[[ZsyncCdImage]]</nowiki>.

=== Wubi installer ===

'''Deprecated and unsupported, not recommended''': If you are running Windows and would like to install Ubuntu within Microsoft Windows as you would install a Microsoft Windows-based program, you can install Ubuntu via <nowiki>[[Wubi]]</nowiki> (remark: this is less reliable than a <nowiki>[[GraphicalInstall|standard installation]]</nowiki>).

----
CategoryInstallation
