{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

This is the discussion page for: <nowiki>[[Glossary]]</nowiki>

'''Please sign your comments'''

Please reference quoted text. A suitable reference could be this variation of the Chicago Style:
 Wikipedia contributors, `<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Application_software&oldid=227866387 "Application software,"]]</nowiki>` ''Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia'', (accessed July 25, 2008)

Before removing this page from Category''''''Cleanup please:
* Add anchors to each term. Use:
 ``

* Add at least one link to other WikiPages from each term for further reading. Try and use something from one of (in this order of preference (based on content):
** http://help.ubuntu.com
** http://help.ubuntu.com/community
** http://wikipedia.org
-- <nowiki>[[duncan-lithgow]]</nowiki> 
=== Comments ===

* Anchors are done, and wiki (and external) links are partially done. -- <nowiki>[[littlergirl]]</nowiki> 2008-09-26

* I added over 200 terms that I got from the <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/DocumentationProject/Terminology/RoughList|GNOME Documentation Project Rough List of Terminology]]</nowiki> page. Each term is:
** Pre-formatted.
** Commented out, so it will only be visible when editing the page.
** Located properly in the page.
* If you'd like to help me with these:
### Pick a term to edit.
### Provide a definition.
### Provide a link or links in the "See also" line.
### Uncomment the term.
* Thanks for any help! -- <nowiki>[[littlergirl]]</nowiki> 2008-09-30

== Pages linking to this page ==

----
CategoryPageDiscussion
