{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent page: <nowiki>[[Evolution]]</nowiki> | <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>

== Introduction ==
This document describes three different methods to display events from Google Calendar in Evolution. All of them require creating and configuring a new calendar.

== New Calendar: CalDav ==

This method allows the user to create a new calendar that synchronises with Google Calendar.

# On the Evolution Calendars window, select the '''New''' drop-down menu and choose '''Calendar'''. The New Calendar window will appear.
# Ensure that '''Type''' is set to '''CalDav'''.
# In the '''Username''' field, enter your Google username. This will be something like `username@gmail.com`.
# Check '''Use SSL'''.
# In the '''URL''' field, enter the following URL: https://www.google.com/calendar/dav/[ your Google Calendar ID ]/events/

== New Calendar: Google ==

This method allows the user to create a new calendar that synchronises with Google Calendar.

# On the Evolution Calendars window, select the '''New''' drop-down menu and choose '''Calendar'''. The New Calendar window will appear.
# Ensure that '''Type''' is set to '''Google'''. This is usually the default option.
# In the '''Name''' field, enter a name for the new calendar.
# In the '''Username''' field, enter your Google username. This will be something like `username@gmail.com`.
# Check '''Use SSL'''.
# Click '''Retrieve List''' to get a list of your available calendars. When prompted for your password, please enter it and press return. Your available calendars should be populated in the '''Calendar''' drop-down list.
# Choose a calendar from the '''Calendar''' drop-down list. Click OK once this is done.

The new calendar should then be displayed in the Calendars list under Google. Existing calendar events should be shown and new events synchronised.

== New Calendar: On The Web ==

This method allows the user to display a read-only copy of the specified calendar in Evolution.
# On the Google Calendar main page select '''Settings''' from the My Calendars section. The Calendar Settings page will appear.
# In Calendar Settings, select the calendar that you want to add to Evolution. The Calendar Details page will be shown.
# In the Private Address section section select the '''ICAL''' icon. Copy the link provided.
# On the Evolution Calendars window, select the '''New''' drop-down menu and choose '''Calendar'''. The New Calendar window will appear.
# Ensure that '''Type''' is set to '''On The Web'''.
# In the '''Name''' field, enter a name for the new calendar.
# Paste the copied URL into the '''URL''' field.
# Check '''Secure connection''' and then click '''OK'''.

The new calendar should then be displayed in the Calendars list under On The Web. Existing calendar events should be shown.

== Options ==

Further options can be modified in the Calendar Properties window. To open this, right-click on the calendar from the Calendar list and select '''Properties'''.

* To change the calendar update frequency use the '''Refresh''' controls.
* To choose a color for your calendar click the '''Color''' button and select a desired color.
* To have events shown when not connected to the Internet, check '''Copy calendar contents locally for offline operation'''.
* If desired, this calendar can be set as the default calendar by checking '''Mark as default calendar'''.

----
CategoryEmail
