{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
This page provides information on how to install the Google Docs extension in LibreOffice, which allows us to upload Libre``Office documents to Google Docs.

== Required Component ==
# Libre``Office 3.3
# Java

== Installation Procedure ==
# Download the Google Docs extension from <nowiki>[[http://extensions.services.openoffice.org/project/ooo2gd|OpenOffice.org2GoogleDocs - export & import to Google Docs, Zoho, WebDAV]]</nowiki>
# Execute the extension file to install it.
# Verify that the extension is installed. Open the Libre``Office extension manager from the menu Tools > Extension Manager. The Google Docs extension will be listed as 'godcs_(Version No).oxt'. Version No is the extension version no e.g.: godcs_1.8.2.oxt.

=== Known Issue ===
Google Docs toolbar may not become immediately visible after installation. Open the extension manager. 'Disable' the Google Docs extension and enable it. Restart Libre``Office. The toolbar should now be visible.

== External Links ==

Related Articles:
* <nowiki>[[http://extensions.services.openoffice.org/project/ooo2gd| OpenOffice.org]]</nowiki> - Google Docs extension home page.
* <nowiki>[[http://code.google.com/p/ooo2gd/wiki/KnownIssues| Google Docs Wiki]]</nowiki> - Known issue in Google Docs extension.

----
CategoryOffice
