{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
There are a number of graphics applications available to Ubuntu users, from simple to complex. We are sure that you will find one to suit your needs.

Some applications come with the default installation of Ubuntu and even more are available in the repositories or elsewhere in the form of deb packages or tar balls.

=== Applications installed by default ===
* '''<nowiki>[[Evince]]</nowiki>''' - Document Viewer for PDF and Post''''''Script files
* '''<nowiki>[[EyeofGNOME|Eye of GNOME]]</nowiki>''' - Image Viewer
* '''<nowiki>[[OpenOffice.orgDraw|OpenOffice.org Draw]]</nowiki>''' - Images and diagrams creation and manipulation
* '''<nowiki>[[XSane]]</nowiki>''' - Scanner application
* '''<nowiki>[[ShotwellPhotoManager|Shotwell Photo Manager]]</nowiki>''' - Photo manager

=== Applications in the repositories ===
* '''<nowiki>[[Agave]]</nowiki>''' - Color schemer
* '''<nowiki>[[Blender]]</nowiki>''' - 3-D Modelling
* '''<nowiki>[[Dia]]</nowiki>''' - Diagrams
* '''<nowiki>[[digikam| digiKam ]]</nowiki>''' - A KDE friendly Photo Management Application
* '''<nowiki>[[http://linuxbrit.co.uk/feh/|feh]]</nowiki>''' - An image viewer at heart, though it does other cool stuff
* '''<nowiki>[[F-Spot]]</nowiki>''' - Photo Library
* '''<nowiki>[[http://gcolor2.sourceforge.net/|Gcolor2]]</nowiki>''' - Simple color picker
* '''<nowiki>[[TheGIMP|The GIMP]]</nowiki>''' - Advanced image creation and manipulation
* '''<nowiki>[[GNUpaint]]</nowiki>''' - Simple painting program
* '''<nowiki>[[ImageMagick]]</nowiki>''' - Graphics editing
* '''<nowiki>[[Inkscape]]</nowiki>''' - Vector graphics
* '''<nowiki>[[Istanbul]]</nowiki>''' - Desktop Session Video Recorder
* '''<nowiki>[[MeMaker]]</nowiki>''' - Creating Avatars
* '''<nowiki>[[http://mirageiv.berlios.de/|Mirage]]</nowiki>''' - A fast and simple image viewer
* '''<nowiki>[[TuxPaint|Tux Paint]]</nowiki>''' - Award-winning painting program for children
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.xaraxtreme.org/|Xara Xtreme]]</nowiki>''' - Vector-based illustration program

=== Applications available elsewhere ===
* '''<nowiki>[[Ares Commander Edition]]</nowiki>''' - A commercial <nowiki>[[CAD]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[CAM]]</nowiki> package
* '''<nowiki>[[Bricscad]]</nowiki>''' - A commercial <nowiki>[[CAD]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[CAM]]</nowiki> package
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.oqapy.eu|Oqapy]]</nowiki>''' - Photographic workflow software
* '''<nowiki>[[jBrout]]</nowiki>''' - JPEG photo management software
* '''<nowiki>[[Picasa]]</nowiki>''' - Photo management with intermediate-level editing features
* '''<nowiki>[[http://www.tonido.com|Tonido Photos]]</nowiki>''' - A peer-to-peer photo sharing and organizing application
* '''<nowiki>[[VariCAD]]</nowiki>''' - A <nowiki>[[CAD]]</nowiki>/<nowiki>[[CAM]]</nowiki> package commercially available as a .deb file
 
== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio]]</nowiki>, especially <nowiki>[[UbuntuStudio-Graphics]]</nowiki>

== External links ==
=== Artwork ===
* <nowiki>[[http://art.gnome.org/|GNOME Art]]</nowiki> - Community of artists based around the GNOME desktop.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openclipart.org/|The Open Clipart Library]]</nowiki> - a collection of Free clipart.
* <nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/creativecommons/|Flickr Creative Commons]]</nowiki> - Creative Commons-licensed works on Flickr.
* <nowiki>[[http://tango-project.org/Tango_Desktop_Project|Tango Desktop Project]]</nowiki> - Project offering guidelines on styling icons and graphics for open-source software.

=== Licensing your Work ===
* <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/licensing/licenses/index_html|Free Software Foundation License List]]</nowiki> - note: 'There is literally no specific freedom that all Creative Commons licenses grant'
* <nowiki>[[http://artlibre.org/licence/lal/en/|Free Art License]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/|Creative Commons]]</nowiki> - Non-profit organisation offering flexible copyright licenses for creative works

----
* <nowiki>[[PageDiscussion|Discuss this page]]</nowiki>
* '''Contributors:''' DuncanLithgow, benmctee, you?

----
CategoryApplications CategorySoftware CategoryGraphicsApplications
