{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== What Is grep? ==

'''Grep''' is a command-line tool that allows you to find a string in a file or stream. It can be used with a regular expression to be more flexible at finding strings.

This page gives an introduction to grep. For more information enter:
<pre>
man grep
</pre>
in a terminal.

== How To Use grep ==

In the simplest case grep can be invoked as follows:
<pre>
grep 'STRING' filename
</pre>
The above command searches the file for STRING and lists the lines that contain a match.

This is OK but it does not show the true power of grep. The above command only looks at one file. A cool example of using grep with multiple files would be to find all lines in all files in a given directory that contain the name of a person. This can be easily accomplished as follows:
<pre>
grep 'Nicolas Kassis' *
</pre>
The above command searches all files in the current directory for the name and lists all lines that contain a match.

Notice the use of quotes in the above command. Quotes are not usually essential, but in this example they are essential because the name contains a space. Double quotes could also have been used in this example.

== Regular Expressions ==

grep can search for complicated patterns to find what you need. Here is a list of
some of the special characters used to create a regular expression:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ^
| Denotes the beginning of a line
|-
| $
| Denotes the end of a line
|-
| .
| Matches any single character
|-
| *
| The preceding item in the regular expression will be matched zero or more times
|-
| []
| A bracket expression is a list of characters enclosed by [ and  ]. It matches any single character in that list; if the first character of the list is the caret ^ then it matches any character not in the list
|-
| \<
| Denotes the beginning of a word
|-
| \>
| Denotes the end of a word
|}

Here is an example of a regular expression search:
<pre>
grep "\<[A-Za-z].*\>" file
</pre>
This regular expression matches any "word" that begins with a letter (upper or lower case). For example, "words" that begin with a digit would not match. The grep command lists the lines that contain a match.

== More Information ==
* "How To: Use grep Command In Linux / UNIX – Examples" http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-use-grep-command-in-linux-unix/ 
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grep
* http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Grep-Searching.html
* UsingTheTerminal
----
CategoryCommandLine
