{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Overview ===
<nowiki>[[http://qingy.sourceforge.net/|qingy]]</nowiki> is a replacement for getty. Written in C, it uses <nowiki>[[http://www.directfb.org/|DirectFB]]</nowiki> to provide a fast, nice GUI without the overhead of the X Windows System. It allows the user to log in and start the session of his choice (text console, gnome, kde, wmaker, ...).

=== Installation ===

<pre>
sudo apt-get install qingy
</pre>

Now you need to edit a few files to stop agetty spawning like normal during boot.
You will need to edit /etc/event.d/tty* where * is 1 to 5
For example
<pre>
sudo nano -w /etc/event.d/tty1

start on runlevel-2
start on runlevel-3
start on runlevel-4
start on runlevel-5

stop on shutdown

respawn /sbin/getty 38400 tty1
</pre>
The bottom line <code>respawn /sbin/getty 38400 tty1</code> will need to be '''commented''' out and a line below reading <code>respawn /usr/local/sbin/qingy tty1</code>
So now the file will read;
<pre>

start on runlevel-2
start on runlevel-3
start on runlevel-4
start on runlevel-5

stop on shutdown

respawn /usr/local/sbin/qingy tty1 '''#This line will become tty2 or 3 or 4 etc'''
</pre>
Do this for each <code>/etc/event.d/tty</code>. Replacing the numbers relatively.  

'''Leave <code>/etc/event.d/tty6 </code> as is. This is our emergency terminal, if you change it you are going to have ALOT to fix!''' 

==== Remove GDM from login ====
It is now safe for you to remove GDM from the default runlevel. I would advise using a nice GTK application called <code>bum</code>, which can be installed with the usual <code>sudo apt-get install bum</code>. Once you have installed it, run it as root from a terminal <code>gksudo bum</code> and click the check box next to "GDM Login Screen". So that it is an 'off' state. Apply Changes and you will be dumpped to a Virtual Terminal. 

You could also use a number of other applications for example rcconf.

=== Running/Cross fingers ===
Ok it is time to restart, so log in to the virtual terminal as your user the use the command <code>sudo init 6</code>.
After the restart you will ''hopefully'' be presented with a nice FrameBuffer login. 

If you are not, and there is something wrong you can get back to a terminal by pressing [ctrl + alt+ F6].
