{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qjoypad|QJoyPad]]</nowiki> is a graphical program that takes input from a gamepad or joystick and translates it into key strokes or mouse actions, letting you control any X-Windows program with your game controller.

== Setting up QJoyPad for rapid fire clicking with pcsxr ==

While this tutorial was done with a <nowiki>[[http://www.pdp.com/Rock-Candy-Wired-Controller/dp/B00FH7S6MA#.VHq-foXXpet|Rock Candy PL-3760 (0e6f:011f Logic3)]]</nowiki>, the concepts should apply broadly to other gamepad models and manufacturers. However, YMMV. 

Some playstation games played using <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pcsxr|pcsxr]]</nowiki> have a requirement to continuously click buttons multiple times per second in order to succeed in the game. However, the configurations in pcsxr don't allow for rapid fire. This is where QJoyPad comes in.

First, launch QJoyPad via the its icon. By default, it doesn't pop open a window, but instead has a spot in the system tray. Click this spot in the system tray to open the QJoyPad window. Then click Axis 1 : [KEYBOARD] -> checkbox Gradient unchecked -> drop down Keyboard -> left hand button [NO KEY] -> click Left arrow on keyboard -> drop down No Throttle -> right hand button [NO KEY] -> click Right arrow on keyboard -> button Okay -> Axis 2 : [KEYBOARD] -> checkbox Gradient unchecked -> drop down Keyboard -> left hand button [NO KEY] -> click Up arrow on keyboard -> drop down No Throttle -> right hand button [NO KEY] -> click Down arrow on keyboard -> button Okay -> Button 1 : [NO KEY] -> in the Set Button 1 window click the button [NO KEY] -> click on the keyboard Z -> click the check box Rapid Fire -> click the button Okay. Do the same procedure to map Button 2 : X, Button 3 : A, Button 4 : S, Button 5 : D, Button 6 : C, Button 7 : Space, and Button 8 : Return. Then click the button -- Close Dialog -- (not -- Quit --). It is a requirement that this program remains running either in the system tray or with the window open for this to work.

Next open pcsxr -> Configuration -> Controllers... -> tab Controller 1 -> Device: 1: Generic X-Box pad -> Type: Digital Pad -> click D-Pad Up -> button Change -> press Up arrow on keyboard -> follow suit for D-Pad Down/Left/Right. Next click Cross -> button Change -> click Z -> Circle X -> Square A, etc. It's important to not actually hit the buttons on the gamepad for each of these or the rapid fire won't work. Then click Close and enjoy your rapid fire!
