{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Ubuntu 12.10 is the version of the Ubuntu operating system released on October 18, 2012. The common name given to this release is "Quantal Quetzal".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 12.10 ("Quantal Quetzal") from Ubuntu 12.04 ("Precise Pangolin").
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 12.10]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 12.04 LTS, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.
 
== Upgrade from 12.04 LTS to 12.10 ==

=== Ubuntu Desktops 12.04 LTS to 12.10 (Recommended) ===

You can easily upgrade over the network:
# Open the Dash and launch Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click '''Settings...'''.
# In the '''Updates''' tab, ensure that "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" is set to "For any new version".
# Close Software Sources.
# In Update Manager, click '''Check'''.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and click '''Check''' again.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of Ubuntu 12.10.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Kubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 12.10 are supported from Kubuntu 12.04 LTS only.

* <nowiki>[[QuantalUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 12.04 LTS to 12.10]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Servers (Recommended) ===

1. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
# If and only if upgrading from an LTS release, then edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade
</pre>
2. Follow the on-screen instructions.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/12.10|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
