{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu 25.10 is the version of the Ubuntu operating system being released in April 2025. The development codename given to this release is "Questing Quokka".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 25.10 ("Questing Quokka") from Ubuntu 25.04 ("Plucky Puffin").
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuestingQuokka/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 25.10]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 25.04, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 25.04 to 25.10 ==

=== Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 25.10 ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''update-manager''' application.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings...''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Confirm the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" option is set to "For any new version", and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them. /* , and press '''Check''' again after that is complete. */
# Run '''update-manager'''.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Ubuntu Servers ===

 1. Install `ubuntu-release-upgrader-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-release-upgrader-core
</pre>
# Edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade
</pre>
 1. Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Edubuntu ===

Please refer to the section "Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 25.10" above for instructions on upgrading.

=== Lubuntu ===

Please refer to https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/D/upgrading.html for our instructions on upgrading. You may note it contains no new detail, but maybe helpful if upgrade isn't found or other issues.

=== Kubuntu ===

Specific instructions for upgrading Kubuntu to 25.10 can be founds at: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/QuestingUpgrades/Kubuntu

=== Ubuntu Budgie ===

Please refer to the section "Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 25.10" above for instructions on upgrading.

=== Ubuntu Cinnamon ===

Please refer to the section "Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 25.10" above for instructions on upgrading.

=== Ubuntu Kylin ===

Same steps as ubuntu and please refer to the section "Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 25.10" above.

=== Ubuntu Studio ===

Specific instructions for upgrading Ubuntu Studio to 25.10 can be found at: https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/ubuntu-studio-25-10-release-notes/53099#p-132280-upgrading-to-ubuntu-studio-2504-5

=== Xubuntu ===

Direct upgrades to Xubuntu 25.10 are supported from Xubuntu 25.04.
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/25.10/upgrading|Upgrading to Xubuntu 25.10]]</nowiki>

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuestingPuffin/ReleaseNotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
