{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


==== Installed Edubuntu Today ====
We installed Edubuntu today - getting rid of Fedora Core 3 on that machine.  The installation was at least as easy as it had been with Fedora (although, less visual).  Everything worked great and I can see why Ubuntu is the top-rated distro on DistroWatch.  My son, Josh (age 6), is already in love with TuxPaint and the GCompris Suite.  He has already animated and played "games" until I finally sent him to bed.  

==== Still in Love, but . . . ====
We are definitely still enamored with Edubuntu (although only 2 days - hard to tell longterm);  and Josh was again very difficult to put to bed; however, I do not see the point in installing the SchoolTools client without having access to the SchoolBell or SchoolTools calendaring.  Of course, it asks you for a login which is not your user account.  I went to the schooltool.org site and registered to no avail.  I realized that I would have to download these programs if I wanted them and since Josh was occupying the computer much of the day, I really did not have the time.  I think that Edubuntu would be better served to have both the client and server end packaged with request for root pword to edit events.  As there is a distinct home user / student user feel to Edubuntu - this would increase parent involvement and multiple calendars could be set up - not only for the school but for home events as well. 

==== Good Article in Home Education Magazine ====
There was a good article about using Linux in the most recent (May-June 2006) edition of Home Education magazine.  The article can be read at http://www.homeedmag.com/HEM/233/opensource.html
Though it does not mention any distros specifically (except for a mini ''Cephalopod'' that the author's 16-y-o son has developed); I am sure that anyone who jumps to distrowatch will be sure to find ''Edubuntu''.
----
CategoryHomepage
