{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Hello, and welcome to my page ====

== About Me ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| 
| Mohamed Armaoui
|-
| '''Nickname'''
| 
| hamma
|-
| '''Location'''
| 
| Tunis, Tunisia
|-
| '''Operating System'''
| 
| Ubuntu
|}
________________________________________________________________________________________________________
* My name is '''Mohamed Armaoui''' aka '''hamma''', I've been a Linux user & lover since 2008. Since I was convinced by some of our local community members '''"Ubuntu-Tn"''' to convert to be a GNU/Linux user, I intend to pass the love of Linux to many parties in my social/professional life.
* So my goal for now is to try hard to convince individuals and companies to use GNU/Linux, not an easy quest but it's all about keep trying and talking.
* I'm a '''Pentester''', web developer, Grey Hat Hacker & '''proud''' to be.
* Big Fan of Mr. Richard Stallman

==== History ====

{*} 2008 ==> 2010 || '''Backtrack'''

{*} 2008 || Learned Web Development ( HTML - CSS - JavaScript - PHP )

{*} 2010 || '''Gentoo''', '''SUSE'''

{*} 2011 || '''Ubuntu Studio''', '''Backtrack'''

{*} 2012 || Learned '''Python''', OS => '''Backtrack'''

{*} 2013 || '''Kali Linux'''

{*} 2014 ==> 2015 || '''Ubuntu'''

{*} 2015 ==> Joined the '''Ubuntu-Tn'''

{*} 2015 ==> Co Founder @ '''TGLUG'''

{*} 2015 ==> Member of '''StartUbuntu'''

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Why Ubuntu? ==

I believe that '''Ubuntu''' is the best GNU/Linux distribution on the level of so many standards, starting from its active & big community to the simplicity of the OS & its beauty.
As far as I know, people love '''power''' & '''beauty''', and '''Ubuntu''' combines these two and offer them to the user so he can use it in so many fields such as Professional Life or Daily Tasks.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Contact Details ==

{*} '''E-mail''' : bluemail1996@gmail.com 

{*} '''irc.freenode.org''' : hamma

{*} '''Launchpad''' : https://launchpad.net/~hamma

{*} '''LinkedIn''' : https://tn.linkedin.com/pub/mohamed-armaoui/103/806/141

{*} '''Facebook''' : https://fb.com/hamma.fallag

{*} '''Twitter''' : https://twitter.com/TnSolo
________________________________________________________________________________________________________

== Goals ==

I believe in priorities, so for now I have a TO-DO list for my GNU/Linux contribution. I think I'm good when it comes to talking to people & debates so all I'm concerned about is to convince multiple parties to convert to Ubuntu and that's why I'm charged of '''Social Media Channels''' in '''StartUbuntu'''.
Otherwise I think I'm good at project planning & coming out with new ideas.

* Spreading the spirit of '''GNU/Linux''' & '''FOSS''' is mainly my first goal.
* Providing Support & Ubuntu CDs to anyone who want to take a step towards what's better.
* Continue amaze people & influence them to be a part of the loco.
* Help '''Ubuntu-Tn''' in so many ways & insure that we are going in the right path.

__________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Thank You guys'''
|}
