{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Please enter your impressions from the HandFreeEmailingBOF here.''

== People ==

=== MatthewEast ===

Here are my attempts at running the exercise.

==== Hands Free Email ====

I had absolutely no luck with this: I don't have any special equipment by which I can control the computer without my hands 0/10

==== 1 finger email ====

This shouldn't be as difficult as it is: I have no windows key or any single button on my keyboard which I can open the menu with, so I couldn't even get started. Even if I had been able to open Evolution, I wouldn't have been able to open a new email. With two fingers I could open the menu, start evolution, and send an email, but not with one. 0/2

Conclusion: there should at least be a way to open the menu with one finger. On another laptop (with a Windows key and with a few more hotkeys) I might have had more luck here.

==== Mouse Only Email ====

This was MUCH more difficult than it should be: most importantly of all the On screen keyboard was not installed so I had to open "Add/Remove Programs", insert my password using letters assembled from the firefox homepage and pasted into gedit (Henrik pointed out this "cheat" for me), and install GOK. Ok, I thought it would be plain sailing from there, but GOK did not work when I clicked on it from the menu. So in order to send an email I would have to assemble all the letters from the firefox homepage as I did with the password.

Installation with only a mouse must be IMPOSSIBLE, and how on earth do you login?

Conclusion: GOK should be installed by default, and should work.

==== Eye closed email ====

I succeeded in sending an email, although I had to cheat quite badly. First of all, and most importantly, I (with my eyes open) setup a shortcut for starting evolution from the desktop (Ctrl and E). After that it would relatively straightfoward, I did Ctrl + N in Evolution to make a new mail, and sent a mail to Henrik (fortunately his email address was already in my contacts so evolution auto-completed it). I was quite unsure of the position of the keyboard, but for a very simple email I could do it. 3/10

Conclusion: an easy shortcut for opening evolution (my other computer has a hotkey to open it) is necessary.

=== Jeroen van Splunder ===

Here are my attempts at running the exercise.

==== Hands Free Email ====

Lack of special equipment. 0/10

==== 1 finger email ====

I can't open the menu,this should be possible with the logo button.
I don't know how to enable sticky keys,
Alt-F2 evolution and then Ctrl-N
Previously I reported alt-tabbing as not working, but it works now. (fix from dapper?)

1/2 points

==== Mouse Only Email ====

How to install gok?
How to login into Ubuntu?
GOK thinks it's necessary to make a sound for _every_fucking_letter_I_type_!!
Shift works very crappy, need to press shift, keep hovering over shift for a few seconds, and only then continue, and there's no way to deactivate shift when you hit it by accident.
When I open gok, I get four pop-ups thrown at me. Nasty!

2/3 points

==== Eye closed email ====

The text-to-speech thing isn't usefull with a Dutch installation, because it announces the text as if it were English!

0/10 points
