{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is for recommended hardware for Ubuntu Linux.  Recommended hardware is hardware that satisfies all of the following criteria:

* Works properly in all supported versions of Ubuntu; that is, it must work in the last three (3) releases.
* Must be easily configured in all supported versions of Ubuntu; there must be no special corner cases that need tweaking to get working here.
* Has an open-source driver or satisfactory automatic configuration of the closed-source driver (i.e. nVidia).
* Is easily available, i.e. easy to find at a Circuit City, Best Buy, or on NewEgg; or simply a common built-in chipset.

Please denote Bus as one of the following.  Append -OB to the end if it's an on-board chip, typically as PCI-OB; and sort alphabetically after the parent type.

* ISA
* PCI
* PCMCIA
* USB

Please sort this list alphabetically in each column.  Sort the Bus first, then the Make, then the Model, then the Driver.

Please realize the price is approximate and for the United States.

Network Cards
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Bus'''
| '''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| '''Price'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| PCI-OB
| Realtek
| 8139
| 8139too
| 4.10
| (OB)
| Common built-in chipset
| 8-Dec-2005
|}

Sound Cards
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Bus'''
| '''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| '''Price'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| PCI
| Creative
| Soundblaster Audigy
| Emu10k1
| 4.10
| $70
| Great sound quality; available almost anywhere
| 8-Dec-2005
|-
| PCI-OB
| Via
| AC97
| AC97
| 4.10
| (OB)
| Common built-in chipset
| 8-Dec-2005
|}

Video Cards
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Bus'''
| '''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''X Driver'''
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| '''Price'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| AGP
| ATi
| Radeon X700
| radeon, flglx
| 5.04
| $200
| This is an example entry
| 8-Dec-2005
|}

Webcams
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Bus'''
| '''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| '''Price'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| USB
| Creative
| Webcam Live
| ???
| 5.04
| $50
| This is an example entry
| 8-Dec-2005
|}

Wireless Network Cards
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Bus'''
| '''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Driver'''
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| '''Price'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| PCMCIA
| Netgear
| ???
| ???
| 5.04
| $60
| This is an example entry
| 8-Dec-2005
|}
