{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
This page describes the status of support for card readers in Linux.

A card reader is a device for accessing the data on a memory card such as a CompactFlash, secure digital or Multimedia Card. Most card readers also offer write capability. Card readers can be categorized by the type and quantity of card slots:

* Single card reader (e.g. access 1 SD card)
* Multi card reader (e.g. access 9 card types in 1 device)
* Series card reader (e.g. access 4 SD cards)

Support for card readers in Linux is not comprehensive and few manufacturers provide Linux drivers that match the quality of the available Windows drivers. One website promoting better support for Card Readers in Linux is the interestingly named Movement for the Use of Smart Cards in a Linux Environment <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxnet.com/sourcedrivers.html|M.U.S.C.L.E.]]</nowiki>. There you will find in
formation on many of the available drivers for card readers and Driver Developer Kits for hardware manufacturers and users who want to write drivers.

== Configuration ==
The first step in making the card reader work is always finding the manufacturer and model, then a suitable driver. A good way of doing this is to use the Debian GNU/Linux device driver check page. Open a terminal and paste the following code:

 $ lspci -n

Copy the results into the textfield found on the <nowiki>[[http://kmuto.jp/debian/hcl/index.cgi|Debian GNU/Linux device driver check page]]</nowiki> and click to proceed. You should see  hardware vendor information listed and for any recognised devices will be the name of the supporting driver. Devices not known show "no information". Remember to help the Device Driver check page by giving them some system information.

If you are fortunate enough to have a driver listed you can search the internet for more information, ask for ["ubuntu/about-ubuntu/C/help.html" help] and then list your results in the table below.

You may find some help at the following sites:
* http://www.linuxnet.com/sourcedrivers.html (mentioned earlier)
* http://mmc.drzeus.cx/wiki/Linux/Drivers/wbsd
* http://www.gi-de.com/portal/page?_pageid=42,124733&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL

== HardwareSupport/Components/Card Reader ==
The table below lists peoples experiences of using Card Readers with Ubuntu. Please add your own experiences for others to learn from.

=== Card Reader ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Chipset/Driver '''
| '''Auto detected?  '''
| '''Works?  '''
| '''Ubuntu Version  '''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| Texas Instruments
| Unknown device 8039
| unknown
| No
| No
| 6.10
| Manual configuration works. See bug# <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/53923|53923]]</nowiki>
| 2006-12-18 DuncanLithgow
|-
| Sandisk
| Image Mate
| -
| Yes
| Yes
| 6.06
| Mounting is a little odd
| 7-25-2006
|-
| -
| -
| -
| -
| -
| -
| -
| -
|-
| Texas Instruments
| According to lspci -vvvv:Unknown device 803b or unknown device 0036 (=5in1)
| tifm_7xx1 tifm_core and tifm_sd
| No
| Yes
| 6.10 (Edgy), 7.04 Feisty, recompile drivers, 07.10 Gutsy works
| Modules tifm_7xx1 tifm_core and tifm_sd need to be added to /etc/modules to work on next boot, to use without rebooting, modprobe those modules <nowiki>[[http://openfacts.berlios.de/index-en.phtml?title=TI_FlashMedia_xx12/xx21_driver|home]]</nowiki>
| 2007-11-28
|-
| Texas Instruments
| Unknown device 803c
| tifm_core and tifm_sd
| No
| Yes
| 6.10 (Edgy)
| Put in /etc/modules or modprobe: tifm_core and tifm_sd
| 2006-Dec-25
|-
| Texas Instruments
| Texas Instruments PCI6411, PCI6421, PCI6611, PCI6621, PCI7411, PCI7421, PCI7611, PCI7621 Secure Digital (SD) Controller
| tifm_sd
| No
| Yes
| 6.10 (Edgy)
| Found in laptop HPNX6120 - (Report at <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPNX6120]]</nowiki>). Put in /etc/modules or modprobe: tifm_sd. Manual mounting needed.
| 2007-Jan-6
|}

----
CategoryHardware
