{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is for Ubuntu 5.10 (Breezy Badger).
This also works for Ubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper Drake).

It also applies to the '''Lexmark Z33'''.

=== Dependencies ===
You'll need to install alien and libstdc++5.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install alien
sudo apt-get install libstdc++5
</pre>

=== Installation ===
1. Download the driver from lexmark's site (<nowiki>[[http://downloads.lexmark.com/cgi-perl/downloads.cgi?ccs=229:1:0:389:0:0&emeaframe=&fileID=1242]]</nowiki>)

2. Run though the following commands:
<pre>
tar -xvzf CJLZ35LE-CUPS-2.0-1.TAR.GZ # extract the driver.
tail -n +143 lexmarkz35-CUPS-2.0-1.gz.sh > install.tar.gz # the sh script is broken for newer systems.
tar -xvzf install.tar.gz # extract the contents produced by tail
sudo alien --to-deb *.rpm # convert unusable rpm packages to deb.
sudo dpkg -i *.deb # install the debs
sudo ldconfig # refresh ubuntu to see the new libraries
cd /usr/share/cups/model
sudo gunzip Lexmark-Z35-lxz35cj-cups.ppd.gz # unzip the ppd, which should _not_ be gzipped
sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart # The driver is now installed. Restart the cups daemon.
</pre>

3. Now we run:
<pre>
/usr/lib/cups/backend/z35
</pre>
You should see something like:
<pre>
direct z35:/dev/usb/lp0 "Lexmark Inkjet color printer" "Lexmark Printer"
</pre>

4. Now simply set up your printer using the new z35 driver. (ie: in GNOME: System->Administration->Printing). Choose the "Z35-v2.0-1" driver for your printer.

=== Issues ===
 - Printing Tool doesn't print the test page properly.
----
CategoryCleanup CategoryHardware
