{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

The Xubuntu developers are moving very quickly to bring you the absolute latest and greatest software the Open Source Community has to offer. Hardy Heron Alpha 2 is the second alpha release of Xubuntu 8.04, and with this new alpha release comes a whole host of excellent new features.

'''Note: This is still an alpha release. Do not install it on production machines. The final stable version will be released in April 2008.'''

== In General ==

These features are showcased for your attention. Please test them and report any bugs you find. If you want to see what the developers have cooking for the next alpha release take a look through the hardy blueprint page
https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy

=== Upgrading from Xubuntu 7.10 ===

To upgrade from Xubuntu 7.10, run "update-manager -d" using the update-manager package from gutsy.

=== Xfce 4.4.2 ===

The second maintenance release in the 4.4 stable series of Xfce4, focusing on fixing bugs and updating translations, is now available in Xubuntu Hardy Heron. 

For a complete list of bug fixes provided by 4.4.2, please see http://www.xfce.org/documentation/changelogs/4.4.2

=== Xorg 7.3 ===

The latest Xorg is available in Hardy, Xorg 7.3, with an emphasis on better autoconfiguration without config files.

=== Linux kernel 2.6.24 ===

Alpha 2 includes the 2.6.24-2.4 (2.6.24-rc5-based) kernel.  This brings in significant enhancements and fixes that have been merged in the last few months into the mainline kernel.  Among these is the introduction of dynticks support for amd64, bringing the same power savings already available on 32-bit systems to 64-bit laptops and desktops.

=== PulseAudio ===

Alpha 2 includes <nowiki>[[http://pulseaudio.org|PulseAudio]]</nowiki> enabled by default. Some non-GNOME applications still need to be changed to output to pulse/esd by default and the volume control tools are still not integrated. <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/cleanup-audio-jumble]]</nowiki>

=== Xfce4-battery-plugin ===

The xfce4-battery-plugin has been updated to be less CPU intensive. Be sure to test it out and report any problems to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/113440]]</nowiki>

== Download Alpha 2 ==

Get it while it's hot. ISOs and torrents are available at:

 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Xubuntu) <<BR>><<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Kubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Edubuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/jeos/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu JeOS) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/gobuntu/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Gobuntu) <<BR>>
 http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/hardy/alpha-2/ (Ubuntu``Studio)

== Caveats ==

As expected during early development snapshots, there are several known bugs that users are likely to run into with Hardy Alpha 2.  We have documented them here for your convenience along with any known workarounds, so that you don't need to spend time reporting these bugs again:

* Due to the X server failing to provide a configuration file, the keyboard selection made during install will not be carried over to the installed system. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/173008]]</nowiki>

== Reporting Bugs ==

It should come as no surprise that this alpha release of Hardy Heron contains other bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs through <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs|the Ubuntu bug tracker]]</nowiki>

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== Participate in Ubuntu ==

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

and

 http://xubuntu.org/devel

== More Information ==

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

== Credits ==

The Alpha 2 release notes were brought to you by:

* Cody A.W. Somerville
