{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Howto Install the Samsung SCX-4100 printer driver ==

This printer works fine with CUPS, but requires installation from the Samsung website.

http://www.openprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Samsung-SCX_4100

Do the following to make sure you have all the necessary programmes for scanning and running this driver:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libstdc++2.10-glibc2.2 libsane-dev sane sane-utils libqt3-mt
</pre>

Download the driver 

<nowiki>[[http://org.downloadcenter.samsung.com/downloadfile/ContentsFile.aspx?CDSite=us&CttFileID=2048258&CDCttType=DR&ModelType=N&ModelName=SCX-4100&VPath=DR/200810/20081030150510531/UnifiedLinuxDriver.tar.gz]]</nowiki>

Use file-roller, or command line, to extract the driver in a directory, for example in your home.

<pre>
tar -xzf 20060719092647968_UnifiedLinuxDriver.tar.gz 
</pre>

Start the driver installation script:

<pre>
sudo ./cdroot/Linux/install.sh
</pre>

I went through the simple GUI but it did not autodetect the printer when it got to 95% complete. Solution is to ignore this bit, then use the Ubuntu printer administration to add the new printer instead. The Samsung drivers now appear in the list of available printer drivers.

Beware, this script does horrible things like replacing kernel modules. Please write to Samsung asking a) for release of source code, or b) provision of a deb format driver.

----
CategoryHardware CategoryCleanup
