{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
This page lists some of the Bluetooth USB Adapters that work on Ubuntu. For help with Bluetooth in Ubuntu, see the community documentation on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BluetoothSetup|Setting up Bluetooth]]</nowiki>. You may also want to consider purchasing a free software compatible device. Unlike non-free driver dependent hardware support exists out of the box and will continue working going forward. Many other Bluetooth dongles will not. Free software compatible adapters are available from stores such as <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkpenguin.com/|ThinkPenguin.com]]</nowiki>.

To get information about you BlueTooth device use commands:
<pre>
$ lsusb
...
Bus 002 Device 005: ID 0a12:0001 Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode)
...
$ hciconfig
hci0:	Type: USB
...
$ hciconfig -a hci0
...
	Manufacturer: Accel Semiconductor Ltd. (74)
</pre>

== Unbranded ==
* <nowiki>[[ES-388 2.0]]</nowiki>

== Azio ==
* Azio BTD-V201(class 1, v2.0+EDR) USB Micro Bluetooth Adapter works out-of-the-box in Ubuntu 9.04

== Belkin ==
* <nowiki>[[Belkin_F8T013uk1_USB_Adapter]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Belkin_F8T012xx1_USB_Adapter]]</nowiki>

Belkin F8T016(uk) micro USB adapter.

Works out of the box in Ubuntu 12.04.

Initially detected by ubuntu hardy but doesn't work straight away.
Needs two edits:
* <pre>
gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
</pre> Add this line: <pre>
blacklist hci_usb
</pre>
* <pre>
gksu gedit /etc/modules
</pre> Add this line: <pre>
hci_usb reset=1
</pre>

There is a patch available in bluez but it is easier to just edit the files. 
The first edit stops ubuntu automatically loading the module and the second loads the module with the correct parameter.
(Thank you Marcel Holtmann).

== Bluetake ==
Works out-of-the-box in Ubuntu v10.04 ~ 11.04 but stopped working reliably in 11.10, frequent kernel panics and other general not good stuff, [Bug: 901770]

$ lsusb
Bus 007 Device 003: ID 0a12:0001 Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode)

$ hciconfig -a hci0
Manufacturer: Cambridge Silicon Radio (10)

Might need same fix as Belkin : add "blacklist hci_usb" to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf, and add "hci_usb reset=1" to /etc/modules

== Cirago ==
* <nowiki>[[Cirago_BTA-3210_EDR_BT_v2.0_Micro_USB_Adapter]]</nowiki>

== CityCom Corp ==
* <nowiki>[[USB-BLUETOOTH Dongle Cubix v.2.0 BM-2221]]</nowiki>

== Conceptronic ==
* <nowiki>[[Conceptronic_CBT200U2A]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[Conceptronic]]</nowiki> 2.0 Bluetooth 200m Usb Adapter 

== D-Link ==
* <nowiki>[[D-Link_DBT-122_USB_Bluetooth_Adapter]]</nowiki>

== Kensington ==
* Bluetooth USB Adapter 2.0 (K33348) - works out of package in Ubuntu v8.04

== Konig ==
* Mini Bluetooth Dongle CMP-BLUEKEY31 (uses Cambridge Silicon Radio chip) - works out of the box on Ubuntu 10.04
* USB Mini Bluetooth v4.0 Dongle CSBLUEKEY200 (uses Cambridge Silicon Radio chip with; USB ID 0a12:0001) -  works with most devices, but could not pair with some Bose headphones in Ubuntu 16.04 (2016-10-02).

== Hama ==
* <nowiki>[[Hama_Bluetooth_USB-adapter_00049225]]</nowiki>

== IO Gear ==
* USB Micro Adapter Bluetooth 4.0 (GBU521W6) - works out of the box (Ubuntu 12.04 & 12.10)<<BR>>As of Nov 2013, it is also one of the cheapest on the market.

* USB Micro Adapter Bluetooth 2.1 Micro Adapter (BGU421) - works out of the box on Ubuntu<<BR>>

== JVC ==
* <nowiki>[[http://store.jvc.com/product.asp?Model=KS-UBT1|KS-UBT1 USB BLUETOOTH ADAPTER]]</nowiki>
  <<BR>>
  This is the mini-dongle that comes with various JVC car stereo head units to provide bluetooth support via one of the USB ports.
  <<BR>>
  Works out of the box with Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise).  (Tested with a headset using blueman / alsa.)

  <pre>
  Type: BR/EDR  Bus: USB
  BD Address: 00:10:60:D2:D9:B3  ACL MTU: 310:10  SCO MTU: 64:8
  UP RUNNING PSCAN 
  RX bytes:828 acl:0 sco:0 events:34 errors:0
  TX bytes:637 acl:0 sco:0 commands:33 errors:0
  Features: 0xff 0xff 0x8f 0xfe 0x9b 0xff 0x59 0x83
  Packet type: DM1 DM3 DM5 DH1 DH3 DH5 HV1 HV2 HV3 
  Link policy: RSWITCH HOLD SNIFF PARK 
  Link mode: SLAVE ACCEPT 
  Class: 0x7e0100
  Service Classes: Networking, Rendering, Capturing, Object Transfer, Audio, Telephony
  Device Class: Computer, Uncategorized
  HCI Version: 2.1 (0x4)  Revision: 0x12e7
  LMP Version: 2.1 (0x4)  Subversion: 0x12e7
  Manufacturer: Cambridge Silicon Radio (10)
  </pre>

== MSI ==
* <nowiki>[[Bluetooth_USB_Dongle]]</nowiki>: USB 2.0 Standard compliance Bluetooth 2.0 + EDR Operating Range 10meters.

== Rocketfish ==
* RF-BCDM4 Works out-the-box with 9.10, simple plug-n-play.
* RF-FLBTAD Works fine with 10.04. 

== SafeCom Technologies ==
* <nowiki>[[SafeCom_USB_Bluetooth_Adapter]]</nowiki>

== Speedlink ==
* <nowiki>[[http://www.speedlink.com/?p=2&cat=281&pid=26716&paus=1 | Speedlink SL-7411-BK Bluetooth 4.0 USB Adapter]]</nowiki>. It works out of the box in Ubuntu 14.04 (Linux kernel 3.19)

== TRENDnet ==
* TRENDnet TBW-101UB Bluetooth USB Adapter "just works" 
* TRENDnet TBW-106UB Bluetooth USB Adapter works out of the box in Ubuntu 12.04. Supports Headset.

== Trust Brand ==
* <nowiki>[[Trust_BT-2210Tp_Bluetooth_2.0_EDR_USB_Adapter]]</nowiki><<BR>>
* Trust BT-2400p Ultra Small Bluetooth 2 USB Adapter 10m: works out-of-the-box
* Trust Bluetooth 4.0 USB Adapter: works out-of-the-box on Ubuntu 17.04

== Billionton Systems Inc. ==
* Billionton Systems Inc. - USBBT02 USB Bluetooth adapter: works out-of-the-box in Ubuntu v9.04

== Other Related ==

1. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=111455|HOW-TO: GPRS Connection via Bluetooth]]</nowiki>

2. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=34740|HOWTO: Hoary and Nokia Phones via Bluetooth]]</nowiki>

3. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471441|HOWTO: Share your Ubuntu connection with Symbian phones]]</nowiki>

=== Non working devices ===

[http://www.leenooks.com/USB_Bluetooth_Adapters Non working USB Bluetooth Adapters]
----
CategoryHardware
