{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This guide will allow you to install Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron without a CD.  It was adapted and integrated from <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=782603|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Things You Need ===

'''In order to do this, you will need:'''
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download|Ubuntu Hardy Heron (8.04) ALTERNATE .iso]]</nowiki> (remember to mark "Check here if you need the alternate desktop CD."
* At least two partitions on your hard drive.
* <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/hardy/main/installer-i386/current/images/hd-media/|vmlinuz & initrd.gz]]</nowiki> files from Hardy - NOT the ones included on the .iso

=== Procedure ===

1.  Create a /boot folder on your secondary HD partition, and move the alternate .iso and the vmlinuz & initrd.gz from step (2) onto it.

2.  If you don't have Grub already installed, install it on a removable media or Hard Disk. Then, edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst and add the following entry:

{{{
title Install Ubuntu Hardy
root (hd0,2)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz vga=normal ramdisk_size=149720 root=/dev/rd/0 rw --
initrd /boot/initrd.gz}}}

'''Note:''' Change ''(hd0,2)'' to your hard drive partition.  Remember that they start on ''0'', so ''(hd1,3)'' Refers to drive 2 and partition 4. 

3.  Now restart your system.  If you installed GRUB on a removable drive, don't forget to insert it first.

4.  Follow the installation procedure as you usually would.

Your done!
