{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Created''':  by JohnMoser
* '''Contributors''': JohnMoser
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
This spec defines a hardened kernel aspect of the Ubuntu Hardened Team specified in HardenedUbuntu: The Ubuntu Hardened Kernel Team

=== Rationale ===
Systems with specific security concerns may require a specifically secure kernel.  A special Hardened kernel should be supplied containing these specific security features.

=== Use cases ===
* Sun Microsystems decides to offer more secure Ubuntu-based Athlon 64 servers.  It has a choice between standard SELinux-enabled kernels with stack and `mmap()` randomization; or grsecurity-enabled kernels with stack, heap, mmap(), and main executable randomization that can take SELinux or grsecurity policy and use the grsecurity policy learning code.

=== Scope ===
The Ubuntu Hardened Kernel Team will be responsible for managing and maintaining a separate hardened kernel.  Their responsibilities will be as such:

* Determine what security features need to be added to a specially hardened kernel on top of an Ubuntu stock kernel.
** Determine which features can safely be maintained in an Ubuntu stock kernel and supply the Ubuntu Kernel Team patches for any such features that are accepted.
* Work with the Ubuntu Kernel Team to maintain full security patches on both kernels.
** If a security patch is not available, find or create a temporary work-around if possible.
* Maintain communication with other hardened distributions and with upstream kernel hardening projects such as PaX and grsecurity.

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===
Among the list of features that the Ubuntu Hardened Kernel should include are:

* grsecurity; this supplies:
** Automatic, self-learning RBAC system for mandatory access control
** Associating terminals with IP addresses connected to the creating process
** Auditing of a specific group
** Process ID randomization
** `chroot()` jail hardening
** Address space randomization brute force deterrence
** PaX
*** Address space randomization for stack, `mmap()`, `brk()` segment, and main executable
*** High-entropy randomization 8 bits better for `mmap()` and 5 bits better for stack than mainline on i386; even higher on 64-bit architectures.
*** Enhanced MemoryProtections to prevent `PROT_WRITE|PROT_EXEC` memory and other data-code confusion.
* SELinux; can be used as long as the grsecurity RBAC system is not brought up at the same time

==== Code ====
Someone will have to merge and maintain the involved patches on top of the stock Ubuntu kernel.

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
