{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Printers ===

This information has been added by other Ubuntu users - please help by adding your own printer's information if it isn't already here.

==== Filling in your printer: ====
* '''Make''' & '''Model''': whatever it says on the front of your printer, usually.
* '''PPD/Driver''': the file used to tell Ubuntu your printer's settings & capabilities.
* '''Supported''': whether or not Ubuntu detected your printer automatically.
* '''Works?''': whether or not all of your printer's functions work in Ubuntu. (Possibly after you've installed the correct PPD/driver files.)
* '''Ubuntu Version''': which version(s) of Ubuntu you are using the printer in. ('''10.04 LTS''' (Lucid Lynx), '''12.04 LTS''' (Precise Pangolin), '''12.10''' (Quantal Quetzal), '''13.04''' (Raring Ringtail), '''13.10''' (Saucy Salamander)).
* '''Comments''': Comments or links that might help members of the Ubuntu community use this model of printer
* '''Last Update''': Date of last update to that printer entry.

For more Linux printer data, <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/openprinting|The Linux Foundation]]</nowiki> has databases, tutorials and suggestions.

If you are using an All-in-One style combined printer/scanner, please add your scanner information to HardwareSupportComponentsScanners as well.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Link'''
|-
| Apollo
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersApollo
|-
| Brother
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersBrother
|-
| Canon
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersCanon
|-
| Dell
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersDell
|-
| Epson
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersEpson
|-
| FujiXerox
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersFujiXerox
|-
| HP
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersHp
|-
| Konica
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersKonica
|-
| KonicaMinolta
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersKonicaMinolta
|-
| Kyocera
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersKyocera
|-
| Lexmark
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersLexmark
|-
| Netgear
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersNetgear
|-
| Oki
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersOki
|-
| Samsung
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersSamsung
|-
| Toshiba
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersToshiba
|-
| Xerox
| HardwareSupportComponentsPrintersXerox
|}

== Sub-pages ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:90%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''This wiki page contains the following sub-pages:'''
|-
| 
|}

----
CategoryHardware
