{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== KM 2430DL ==
This printer has 2 drivers:
** Closed Source - a binary driver (*.i386.rpm) is included in the box. Konica Minolta does not support this driver, it is provided as is.
** Open Source - <nowiki>[[http://foo2zjs.rkkda.com/|foo2zjs]]</nowiki>

=== Closed source driver ===
RPM drivers for x86 can be found on the CD-ROM that comes with the box, version '''1.1''' (21-June-2005) included.<<BR>> 
The latest binary driver for Linux is '''1.5''' (8-Sept-2005) can be downloaded <nowiki>[[http://printer.konicaminolta.com/support/current_printers/mc2430dl_sup.htm#linux|here]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>The <nowiki>[[http://printer.konicaminolta.net/drivers/linux/2430DL_sc_linux.tar.gz|source]]</nowiki> for 1.5 version was release on 28-Apr-2006 and should be tested if it works on other architectures (PPC, x86_64).

It won't work out of the box on Ubuntu the following steps are required to make it work:
 1. Unpack the package:<pre>
$tar -xvf 2430dllin.tar 
</pre>
 2. Install alien: <pre>
$sudo apt-get install alien fakeroot
</pre>
 3. Transform the RPM into a DEB: <pre>
$fakeroot alien magicolor2430DL-1.5.0-1.i386.rpm
</pre>
 4. Install the DEB: <pre>
$sudo dpkg -i magicolor2430dl_1.5.0-2_i386.deb
</pre>
 5. Restart CUPS: <pre>
$sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart
</pre>
 6. Setup printer as normal, but use the driver from the all caps KONICA_MINOLTA category (and not the Minolta category).

==== GIMP ====
If you are having problems with printing from GIMP do the following:
  1. Go to the printer dialog File -> Print -> Setup Printer
  2. Delete `-oraw` option at the end of Command: <pre>
Command: lp -s -dmagicolor-2430-DL -oraw
</pre>  

==== CUPS ====
The recomended method to configure the printer is to go: <pre>
System -> Administration -> Printing
</pre>
If you encounter problems with configuration using this program you will have to enable the CUPS web interface which by default is disabled in Breezy.

=== OSS driver ===
The driver is produced by Rick Richardson and can be found <nowiki>[[http://foo2zjs.rkkda.com/|here]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
After installation the driver will show up in the Minolta section. 

Please post here your experiences with the OSS driver.
----
CategoryHardware
