{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Summary ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''CPU'''
| '''Video'''
| '''Audio'''
| '''Network'''
| '''Ubuntu Version'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| <-9:#eeeeee>'''IBM'''
|-
| IBM
| Netvista
| Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 @ 2.66GHz
| Intel 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
| Intel 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 01)
| Intel 82801DB PRO/100 VE (LOM) Ethernet Controller (rev 81)
| v8.10 (Intrepid)
| * See comments below
| 2008-11-04
|}

=== IBM Netvista 2.66GHz ===
* You need to upgrade the BIOS video memory shared to 8 Mb (8192 Kb) before running the graphic installation. If the screen go black then try 1 Mb (1024 Kb) in the BIOS. The Graphics Aperture should be 64 Mb. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/28326|bug 28326]]</nowiki>
* On Ubuntu 8.10 installation, if the computer is preinstalled with an IBM hidden partition and Windows XP, Guided partitioning can failed. 
* On Ubuntu 8.10, X configuration can failed with USB mouse/keyboard and KVM Switcher. The login screen (gdm) will work but the desktop will not be displayed. Try to add a complete Mouse/Keyboard to /etc/X11/xorg.conf with options "XkbRules", "XkbModel" and "XkbLayout".
* On Ubuntu 8.10, restarting X (with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE or with a clean exit) many times (3 and more) can crash X with a error like ''(EE) intel(0): underrun on pipe A!''

=== xorg.conf keyboard/mouse example ===
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"ca"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection
</pre>

----
CategoryHardware
