{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS, the
fourth maintenance update to Ubuntu's 8.04 LTS release.  This release
includes updated server, desktop, and alternate installation CDs for the
i386 and amd64 architectures.  Ubuntu 8.04 LTS continues to be maintained
through 2011 for desktops and 2013 for servers through online updates, but
this is the final maintenance release of 8.04 LTS.

In all, some 70 updates have been integrated, and updated installation
media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to be downloaded
after installation.  These include security updates and corrections for
other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and
compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

To Get Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS
------------------------

To download Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/804

About Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS
-----------------------

This is the fourth maintenance release of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, which
continues to be supported with maintenance updates and security fixes
until April 2011 on desktops and April 2013 on servers.

This is the last maintenance release for the 8.04 LTS series.  Future
security updates will be individually downloadable from the Ubuntu archive
in the same way as before, but no further updates to installation media will
be provided for 8.04 LTS.  The next LTS release, 10.04 LTS, will be released
in April 2010.  We recommend that users installing Ubuntu after April
install the latest LTS release.

Users do not need to change anything to take advantage of this maintenance
release on already-installed 8.04 LTS systems; security updates and fixes
for other high-impact bugs are always made available over the Internet and
presented to users for installation by default.  The updated installation
media are provided for the benefit of users who are installing Ubuntu 8.04
LTS on new systems.

77 post-release updates have been integrated in this maintenance release,
and several bugs in the installation system have been corrected.  These
include security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a
focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn for a full list of Ubuntu security updates.
As of 2010-01-20, all updates affecting packages on the CD have been
applied.

A summary of notable updates follows.  See
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu for specific information about a
particular bug number.  A complete list of post-release updates can
also be found at:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/8.04.4

Installer Updates
-----------------

* Add support for using the contents of the CD image on a USB device 
   (#234185)

* Support installing grub to partitions containing JFS filesystems  
   (#185878)

* Fix the check for the lilo-installer/skip preseed option (#466769)

Desktop Updates
---------------

* Fix handling of SMB/CIFS shares on the desktop (#207072)

* Fix firefox crash in NSSRWLock_LockRead_Util() (#236853)

* Backport pidgin support for version 16 of the Yahoo! Messenger Protocol.
   The old authentication mechanism was disabled, meaning that it can no
   longer be used for signing in to Yahoo! services (#389322)

Server updates
--------------

* Fix vblade init script failure because pid file is not created properly
   (#223387)

* Fix freeradius 'reload' action so that it doesn't just stop the daemon
   (#252686)

General Updates
---------------

* Use stack guard randomization patch from Intrepid glibc to eliminate use
   of a static sentinel (#275493)

* Include updated daylight savings time rules for Bangladesh, Fiji, and
   Argentina (#502110, #486351, #453165)

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and an 
incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional services, including support, are available from Canonical
Limited and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more   
information about support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
