{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

The HiSilicon D05 board is an arm64 development board based on the Hi1616 SoC.

=== Installation Notes ===

* Support for the HiSilicon D05 was added in Ubuntu 16.04.3 LTS ('XenialXerus'). The default 16.04 kernel does not support this platform - you must select the "Hardware Enablement Kernel" installation option.
* Support for the HiSilicon D05 was added to Ubuntu 17.04 ('ZestyZapus') after initial release via StableReleaseUpdates. The installer therefore does not support the platform. You will need to install Ubuntu 16.04, then upgrade to Ubuntu 17.04.
* If you prefer the console default to VGA (also viewable over the BMC KVM feature), configure the BIOS "ACPI SPCR TABLE" setting to "Disable". You can then force the console to appear over serial (including IPMI Serial-over-LAN), by passing the boot parameter "console=ttyAMA0". Alternatively, if you prefer the console default to serial, configure the BIOS "ACPI SPCR TABLE" setting to "Enable". You can force the console to appear over VGA (also viewable over the BMC KVM feature) by passing the boot parameter "console=tty0".
* Minimum required firmware (BIOS/UEFI, BMC and CPLD) is 20170721-spc-2b10.
* Xorg support requires kernel version 4.10.0-30.34~16.04.1 or newer.
* Users of Chelsio (cxgb4 driver) and Intel (ixgbe driver) 10G network adapters may gain significant network performance improvements by using an Ubuntu 4.13-based kernel or newer. See <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1721365|LP: #1721365]]</nowiki> for details. 4.13 will be the default HWE kernel in Ubuntu 16.04.4. A preview of this kernel is available in Ubuntu 16.04.3 via the linux-image-generic-hwe-16.04-edge package.

=== MAAS Notes ===
* It is recommended to enable the "PXE Only" setting in the BIOS Setup/Boot Menu for use with MAAS. This will prevent the system from bypassing MAAS control and initiating boot from a detected on-disk OS.

