{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Out of date!''' These laptop tests are now out of date, for newer tests see the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki> pages

Notes on installation and compatibility of Ubuntu with Compaq laptop computers.

== Summary ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Installs ?'''
| '''Not working'''
| '''Ubuntu Release'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| Compaq
| Armada 110 (Modell # 470022-884)
| Yes
| all components are working
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Tested with v6.06.
| 2006-12-14
|-
| Compaq
| Armada 1500c
| Yes
| all components are working
| v7.10
| add snd-es1688 to /etc/modules for sound
| 2009-07-13
|-
| Compaq
| Armada E500
| Yes
| irda
| (Warty)
| Partial TV out, 3d accel. & IRDA not tested yet
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Armada E500
| Yes
| Modem, TV out, Irda, acpi
| (Warty)
| Modem not tested
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Armada M700
| Yes
| 
| (Warty)
| Modem not tested, resume/suspend works once HoaryPM is configured
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Armada 7400
| Yes
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Modem not tested, sound and power management don't work out of the box
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N1015v
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem and TV out not tested
| 2005-09-11
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N1020v
| Yes
| all tested components work Modem not tested
| v6.10 (Edgy)
| Modem not tested
| 2006-12-12
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N400c
| Yes
| 
| 
| Modem & Irda not tested.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N600c
| Yes
| 
| 
| Resume/suspend (needs kernel 2.6.9). Modem & Irda not tested
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N610c
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy) RC1
| Hibernate, volume buttons, sound, everything works except the modem (ndiswrapper gets it working) & the multimedia keys.
| 2005-10-09
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N610c
| Yes
| Hibernate (no Usb on resume), suspend (doesn't wake up), modem
| v6.06 (Dapper) Flight3
| 
| 2006-01-18
|-
| Compaq
| Evo N800c
| Yes
| 
| 
| Modem, DVD/CDRW and multimedia keys not tested
| 
|-
| Compaq
| nx7010
| Yes
| Suspend/sleep, even if apm=on is set in GRUB.
| 
| IrDA, firewire  not tested. Modem works with sl-modem ; wifi OK!. dual-screen support and S-Video Output need ATI binary drivers.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 305
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario V5000
| Yes
| 
| v6.10 (Edgy)
| Works very well, see below.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 701 EA
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| DMA on hdc can safely be enabled for e.g. DVD use. See also <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresario700|here]]</nowiki>
| 2005-11-??
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 730 AP
| Yes
| 
| 
| Modification for ACPI (The grub boot parameter acpi=on needs to be added). The monitor is identified as Generic this affects the display of fonts.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 705 EA
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Everything works pretty well. See below for details.
| 2005-07-04
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 900 CA
| Yes
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper) Kubuntu
| Worked extremely well, 3 weeks and counting, for a 5 year old machine; hotkeys weren't recognized; modem, S-video and parallel port not tested
| 2006-09-25
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 1247
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Everything works pretty good.  Recommend upgrade to 160 MB RAM.
| 2005-12-19
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 1700T
| Yes
| acpi, powerdown, lan is intermittent (was on windows, too) modem untested
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Everything else works beautifully & has for 2 months.
| 2005-07-15
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 1896-XL
| Yes
| acpi (not yet tried modifying GRUB with acpi=force) & powerdown
| 
| Usb & Dvd drive not tested.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presatio 2104EA
| Yes
| Video card 3d acceleration (only available under xorg v 6.8 and later), ACPI battery info not working properly (bug lodged)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 2144EA
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Everything works, even ACPI (Modem not tested).
| 2005-04-22
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 2173EA
| Yes
| ACPI battery info not working properly ; hibernate not working
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem not tested.
| 2005-05-15
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 2180CA
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Must pass ''noapm'' to the kernel on boot to enable the button that disables the mousepad. Modem was not tested.
| 2005-05-11
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 2500
| Yes
| ACPI functions, Beryl on Feisty
| v6.10 (Edgy Eft) & v7.04 (Feisty Fawn)
| I haven't tried to get ACPI working yet, so maybe it's possible (I got cpu frequency scaling working under Debian). I got Beryl working well on Edgy Eft, but when I upgraded to Feisty Fawn, it didn't work correctly  anymore. But that doesn't mean that it's impossible. ;) More details below.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 2800
| Yes
| 
| (Warty) & v5.04 (Hoary)
| Details below.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario R3000/R3120US/R3205
| 
| Details below.
| 
| 
| 
|-
| Compaq
| x1000
| Yes
| Suspend.
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem not tested.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| x1000
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Everything tested so far (including suspend) seems to work. Wifi, Bluetooth, SD, Firewire untested.
| 
|-
| Compaq
| nx9105
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Everything works (some hack needed for the modem & the alps touchpad).
| 2005-04-21
|-
| Compaq
| Presario 2190CA
| Yes
| Modem, Brightness.
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Untested TV out (no cable)
| 2005-04-21
|-
| Compaq
| Presario V2000
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Everything worked on install except wireless. Details below.
| 2005-02-06
|-
| Compaq
| Presario V2000Z
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| Had trouble with the alsa modules. Details below.
| 2006-02-09
|-
| Compaq
| Presario V2402US
| Yes
| See below.
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Almost everything works (modem not tested.)
| 2006-01-15
|-
| Compaq
| Presario V2417LA
| 
| 
| 
| Notes: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresarioV2417LA/|LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresarioV2417LA]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| Compaq
| Presario V6102AU
| Yes
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Notes: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/CompaqPresarioV6102AU?action=show|"HP Compaq 6102AU compatibility details"]]</nowiki>
| 2006-10-11
|}

== Details ==

==== Compaq Presario 305 ====
* Known to work: video card, sound card, USB, touchpad, expansion base unit.
* Not out of the box: ACPI (need to use APM instead - see <nowiki>[[http://barnski-linux.blogspot.com/2004_12_01_barnski-linux_archive.html#110353334244922101]]</nowiki> here for more details), multimedia keys, resume/suspend (even using APM).
* Untried: Modem, irda.

==== Compaq Presario 705 EA ====
* Known to work: Video card, sound card, USB, touchpad, all other ports.
* Not out of the box: Scrolling button below touchpad. Problems with ethernet.
* Untried: Modem, wireless (PCMCIA).

==== Compaq Presario 1247 ====
* Known to work: video, sound, touchpad, CD-ROM, battery level.
* Not out of the box: USB, PS/2 Port, all 'windows' buttons in case.
* Untried: Modem.

==== Compaq Presario 2800 ====
* Known to work: video, sound, wired networking, touchpad, ACPI, DVD, CDRW
* Not out of the box: wireless networking (see <nowiki>[[WifiDocs-Device-CompaqW200]]</nowiki>)
* Untried: modem, parallell, s-video, binary ATI drivers, pcmcia

==== Compaq Presario V5000 series ====
* Everything work "out of box" except broadcom 4318. Got it working very easy with http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=197102&highlight=ndiswrapper+howto.
* Untried: Modem, S-Video, VGA out, Expansion port

==== Compaq Presario R3000/R3205 ====
* Install with "linux noapic". Works out of the box except:
** Touchpad configured by following all steps in the SynapticsTouchpadHowto including comments.
** Wireless chipset is from broadcom.  It is possible, with some work, to use this chipset under linux with AMD64! See <nowiki>[[http://www.runithard.com/HOWTO-BCOM64WIRELESS/]]</nowiki>. It seems to be a good howto. I (ArthurPeters) have experienced some crashes, but it is quite usable. For i386, s more complete discussion is here: <nowiki>[[http://cmb.phys.cwru.edu/kisner/linux/compaq-r3000/]]</nowiki>
* Untried: Modem, irda, possible more.

==== Compaq Presario R3120US ====
* Works out of the box, with the exception of the Broadcom BCM4306 wireless network controller. Use either ndiswrapper or the bcm43xx kernel module (with bcm43xx-fwcutter) as two possible solutions.
* For the ndiswrapper driver, see <nowiki>[[http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/mediawiki/index.php/List]]</nowiki> and search for SP29361.exe. After downloading it, cabextract the contents to a directory of your choice and use the included bcmwl5.inf/sys.
* Did not test "linux noapic" during installation. Use your judgment.
* Did not test the Nvidia winmodem.

==== Compaq Presario V2000 ====
** Used ndiswrapper to install WinXP drivers. Went to Network Settings, manually entered ESSID, set to static IP address, entered IP address and Gateway address. My router is linksys. My wireless is broadcom.

From WillemMeints Tue Apr 19 08:53:26 +0100 2005
From: Willem Meints
Date: Tue, 19 Apr 2005 08:53:26 +0100
Subject: Compaq Presario 2137EA
Message-ID: <20050419085326+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

All works, use the fgrlx driver for X.org (you can download and install it afterwards using sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx)
Add acpi=force as kernel parameter in grub to support ACPI.
The battery monitor is acting a little weird in my installation, maybe some bug. Though acpi -V on the console works fine.

==== Compaq Presario V2000Z ====
===== Dapper (Kubuntu) =====
** Wireless didn't work (Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)).
** Wireless worked after following instructions on http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1071920&postcount=1 up to 4B, then following instructions on http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1084114&postcount=43 , then messing with the "Wireless Assistant" under the K menu.
** Note: Upgrade from Breezy (Ubuntu) broke the install, so I reinstalled from scratch.
** Hibernate didn't work.
** Volume buttons don't work. They did on Breezy (Ubuntu).
===== Breezy =====
** Upon installing everything, after ejecting the Install CD and rebooting, the system would get stuck on "Starting hotplug subsystem". The reason why this happens is because alsa tries to load the hda-intel module which is looking for an intel sound chip which doesn't exist in the system (this is the AMD/ATI version of the V2000). The fix for this (what I did) was to use Knoppix 4.0.2 LiveDVD (since it doesn't have alsa) to edit the etc/hotplug/blacklist file and add 3 modules (I added 3 lines but only one of them works.) _hda-intel_, _hda_intel_, and _snd-hda-intel_. After this, my system would boot but X had problems starting with the ati driver. Since the system was still usable, you can edit the Corg config file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) and change _ati_ to _vesa_. Reboot the system and you're done.
** I still haven't used the system enough to get the wireless working although it should be straight forward.
** The touchpad was detected and worked fine except that X didn't detect that it has a horizontal scroll. Vertical scroll works properly.

==== Compaq Presario V2402us ====
* Standard Breezy Install works well.
* After a clean install of breezy: ACPI, ethernet, touchpad, DMA, and processor throttling all work out of the box. 
* Default "ati" xorg driver caused lockups for me upon logout or X shutdown. This can be fixed by installing ATI's fglrx drivers. See mlomker's guide at: http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=78466
* Suspend can be enabled easily-
1. Backup the file to be edited:
   <code>sudo cp /etc/default/acpi-support /etc/default/acpi-support.BKUP</code>
2. Edit the file so that the '''#ACPI-SLEEP=true''' line is not commented (line 3):
   <code>gksudo gedit /etc/default/acpi-support</code>
3. Restart your computer so that the changes can take effect. Suspend can now be accessed by pressing Fn+F5, or through the logout menu.
* Hibernate also works if you follow Griffin3's guide, which can be found at: http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75443&highlight=suspend2

==== Compaq Presario 2500 ====
* Standard Install works well.
* CPU frequency scaling for the Pentium 4 worked on Debian, so it should work under Ubuntu, altough I haven't tried it yet.
* ACPI functions (sleep, hibernate, etc) don't work yet.
* Lock screen on lid close works. :)
* Beryl under Edgy Eft:
 If I remember correctly, this tutorial worked perfectly for me:
 http://wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Edgy_with_AIGLX ;)
* Ripples & rain effects don't work. :(
* Beryl under Feisty Fawn: still trying...
* Compiz under Feisty Fawn: Works directly. :) (I recommend also installing the compiz-extra and compiz-gtk packages to have more fun&functionality ;) )
* I recently had some problems with the PC shutting down abruptly. But I have the same problem under Windows. I believe it's caused by overheating (Pentium 4...).
 That's what prompted me to install cpufreq under Debian (I found out that the temperature went up to 70 deg C!). ->Problem solved by opening and cleaning the laptop (make sure to follow the disassembling instructions from the manual available on the compaq site). ^^

==== Compaq Evo N1015v ====
* Standard Hoary install work ok.
* Video, Sound, USB, PCMCIA, Ethernet and Touchpad all work.
* X driver is detected as ati but can also use radeon (Chipset is Radeon IGP 320M)
* Suspend doesn't seem to work but I havn't tried fixing it.
* CPU frequency adjustment works.

==== Compaq Armada 7400 (6300/T/6400/D/M/1) ====
* Standard Breezy Badger (5.10) install almost works ok.
* Graphics card issues. Breezy 5.10 'live' - comes up w/three resolutions - 1024-800-640 - correct. 
* Graphics card issue in more detail - hard drive install - asks for confirmation of the same three supported resolutions - 1024-800-640 - correct. Unfortunately at install completion only lowest common denominator 640 resolution is available - unlike 'live' - odd. Same problem after installing all default updates. Command line hacking required to get it to work? 

==== Compaq Armada 7400 (6300/T/6400/D/M/1) ====
* Dapper installs fine, but sound doesn't work out of the box and power management is off
* To fix the sound, do a "sudo modprobe snd-es1688" and add it to the end of /etc/modules
* To make things like shutdown and suspending to work, you need to disable ACPI, which can be done by doing a "sudo {gedit/mousepad/nano/whatever} /boot/grub/menu.lst" finding the line that starts "# kopt" and adding "noapic acpi=off" to the end
* Xubuntu runs like a dream-- very responsive for a seven year old laptop.

----
CategoryLaptop CategoryHardware
