{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''
* '''Please nest a reply when you are responding on another reaction. Otherwise it will grow in a mess.... Thank you.'''
* '''We do not usually respond to these comments, there are too many, but they do go directly into the developers e-mail and every one is read

== WARNING ==
Known issues:
* The upgrader can crash when starting the removing packages stage

== Feedback ==

* I thought it was great -- JonathanRiddell  * Much too much breakage:  -- RK <<DateTime>>
** installing libc failed when the post-installation (a perl script) crashed, causing hundreds of further installation problem requestors that had to be clicked away; it seems some stack checking became more strict than the old perl could handle
** many of these installation error requestors didn't have the Close button visible due to a too long package name
** I eventually get things finished with dpkg --configure -a and apt-get install -f and apt-get dist-upgrade after the graphical installer finally exited, but it didn't bother to reconfigure libc6 / libc6-i686 until a long time later, causing many programs to simply segfault within libc until then
** no single click was possible until dpkg-reconfigure gpm to switch off repeating as otherwise every click ended up twice at X
* Until now there was a good, working proprietary drivers manager in the System Settings. It's now a separated entry in the System menu (WHY??) and it sucks, because it deosn't    work at all. Drivers are marked as selected and enabled, but they're not. Why are you trying to fix something that already worked properly? -- wkrakowski   * I second this. Even thought I coudn't test it on real hardware, there should be an icon in System Settings as in Gutsy.
* It seems it's not possible to add more virtual desktops when desktop-effects are enabled. It's necessary to disable desktop-effects to change virtual desktops settings. -- wkrakowski
* I don't care for the premade sub-dir's. Video, Pictures, Templates, Music, etc. That's what the /home dir is for and I can choose to make folders for myself. I really don't like the cookie cutter "this is where your data will be stored" idea. Even just the mere suggestion that someone is going to decide to clutter my home dir bugs me. <nowiki>[[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3092603|My rant.]]</nowiki> -- clickwir <<DateTime>>
** I'm agree with you. I don't like the pre-made directory...
* I have installed this Beta and it looks very good. I see a lot of bugs fixed. My complaints go to the perpetual bugs as kopete. Is ever going to work and connect to the msn network?. the new kernel takes a little time more of time than gutsy to start. The proprietary drivers manager in the System Settings does not work (in my case it must install b43-fwcutter instead of bcm43xx-fwcutter that i have already installed) and i did it by hand. And it does not hibernate (HP dv2104eu) but unfortunately i hoped it . Anyway I think you have done a good job trying to make this version more stable.
* Unlike previous commenters I find the 8.04 beta outstanding. there are some bugs, some of them rather annoying (https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/206538, also #206542, #136695) but other than that good job! I upgraded from Gutsy and did not experience a lot of glitches; in fact the only problem was the ksplash thing as reported (see bug list). I am very much looking forward to the final release! thanks for making this distribution the best :-) -- Andrea <<DateTime>>
* Some points of thought  -- FReaKaNDeLL   * Same problem upgrading as RK (2nd bullet) had. I upgraded from Kubuntu 7.10 (with kde4 already installed, but not used, from http://kubuntu.org/packages/kde4-3.90.1/ gutsy main);
** I'm missing kmix;
** When placing the panel to the left, I can't resize the panel's widgets (the digital clock took half the panel, while the taskmanager only got room for 2 or 3 apps, based on the width of the panel);
** I get most annoyed from the sounds KDE makes when a windows closes, and I can't shut it of in the system settings tool;
** (maybe the last 3 are KDE4 problems, but not sure... I thought kmix for kde4 is already available for distribution)
** The allover kde4 feeling is somewhat more smooth than kubuntu 7.10/kde3.5;
** The kde4 launcher (you see after entering your password) is somewhat minimal. I expected a more graphical (kubuntu) thingy ^_^
** Dual core is still not default installed (Asus P5B-E plus + E6300).
* What about wireless adapter with ralink chipset? I hope that they will works out of box...
* I'm missing Kwrite. Please bring it back. IMHO for most users out there Kwrite is just what they need, while a full Kate is much too bloated (in terms of features). I think there a two distinct usage scenarios for both. While Kate is more for power users or developers editing several files at the same time, Kwrite is much better suited if you just want to have a quick look at or edit a single text file (for complex things I'm used to Emacs anyway;). I don't need things like a fancy side bar, it just takes up space while adding nothing for me. Further there is a strange selection of actions in the default Kate toolbar. I never felt the need for Forward, Backward, Save As or Close actions in a simple text edtior, instead I'm missing the standard Copy&Paste icons ... 

* I was very impressed with 8.04beta.  First reboot and the screen was using the ATI card at 1280 * 800.  With previous Kubuntu 7.04, I only had 1076 * 768 and needed to install the restricted driver (fglrx), with earlier ones it was worse.  I'm also using Debian 4.0 (Etch) and it is way behind.  The alternate install CD uses the Debian installer.  I also use the encryption for /home and swap and it looks good.  I've used it on Debian for some time with no problems.  Firefox 3 beta 4 looks great as do many other programs that I use daily.  Once the stable version is released I suspect that Hardy will take over from Etch for everyday work.  Well done. -- KevinC5 
* Excellent!  I plugged a new printer in, Kubuntu 8.04 said 'configuring HP psc 1310' and it was done.  I printed from OpenOffice, Thunderbird, Kpdf (which now allows copy paste etc of text and graphics) and the pages came out perfectly.  At home, my Canon i80, for which I had not yet got working with any Linux distro, worked perfectly, first time, plugged it in and it printed beautifully.  Great.  Hardy rocks. -- KevinC5 
* Something is wrong with the connectivity on the KDE4 version of the 8.04 beta. I cannot connect to an access point when using the KDE4. However I can connect with no problems when using KDE3 version on the same machine (I tried with two clean installs). I tried to change configuration manually (right click on the network manager icon, but it's not working). -- wkrakowski  
** Seems like wireless is working properly on KDE4 now. PLEASE DON'T BREAK IT. -- WitoldKrakowski

* Also, I'm wondering where is the System Settings menu go in the KDE4....I can't find it anywhere....Do I have to go back editing configuration file by hand? -- wkrakowski  
* Oooh! It was all going well (apart from needing to install wicd instead of network-manager to connect wirelessly), but today's update has done something to Flash in Firefox. An big, annoying "play" button, and then things do not always work, e.g. the Facebook portlet in Pageflakes. Will this be fixed/changed back to how it was? -- SteveKing4

* Kaffeine still doesn't play DVD's, even after downloading the plugins, but it does other things well. -- KevinC5 
* Still cannot logout from KDE 3.5.9, i get a black screen since alpha5 (the first one I tried) geoffrey4
** I installed the beta on my friends computer and get the same issue. ~shindekokoro

* impossible to automount usb device, kded takes all the cpu resources geoffrey4

* I did try the beta in order to test if my sound card works properly. Unfortunately I cannot boot into the desktop (neither live-desktop or installer). When X/KDM is started, it waits forever (that is, I only waited for 5 minutes :-) just showing a light blue screen (Kubuntu color). When I switch to another shell (CTRL+ALT+F1) top shows me that kdm uses 100% cpu. Then I killed kdm, and ran startkde - suddenly the desktop showed as expected. Great, but then my wireless network didn't work; Knetworkmanager ignored my command 'Enable wireless'. Btw there is no splash-screen during boot time, just a black screen. I am writing this on Kubuntu 7.10, Asus V1S.

* I think KMix was better before in KDE3, I can't select between recording and playing, and I have too many mixers to show on one screen. When this comes out it will be brilliant, but I can't move the icons on the panel, and the calendar doesn'tr show up if I click on the clock, that was a nice feature in kde3. DanDart

* 8.04 seems great, most things works right away, my Epson StylusPhoto 1400  was ready to print as soon as I connected it, just automagicaly! But when enabling proprietary ati driver, I cannot log out or shut down. Shutdown from commandline works, from kdm I can turn off before I log in, but as soon as I log in, I have to use konsole to logout or shut down - no good!
