{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the beta release of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
(Long-Term Support) on desktop and server.  Codenamed "Hardy Heron", 8.04 LTS
continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the latest and greatest
open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop Edition features incremental improvements to familiar
applications, with an emphasis on stability for this second Ubuntu long-term
support release, and is easier than ever to try out with the new Wubi
installer.

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS server follows in the footsteps of Ubuntu 7.10 with even  
more virtualization support and security enhancements - enabling AppArmor 
for more applications by default, improving protection of kernel memory   
against attacks, and supporting KVM and iSCSI technologies out of the box.

The Ubuntu 8.04 family of variants: Kubuntu, Xubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and
Mythbuntu also reach beta status today.

Desktop features
----------------

Improved application selection: the GNOME desktop sports a number of
improvements to the default applications, including more feature-full clients
for BitTorrent and VNC, as well as an advanced UI for mastering CDs and
DVDs.

File browsing: an enhanced filesystem layer brings greater performance and
flexibility to Nautilus, the GNOME file browser.

Pluggable audio and video output: the PulseAudio sound server is integrated
in the GNOME desktop for more flexible sound output, and a new Screen
Resolution utility allows easier configuration of multiple video displays.

Wubi installer: a new Windows-based installer option makes it easier than
ever to try out Ubuntu, letting users install a full desktop on Windows
systems without needing to partition their hard drive.

Please see http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/hardybeta for details.

Server features
---------------

AppArmor profiles: a greater number of server applications are now protected
by default with AppArmor, a kernel technology that limits the resources an  
application is allowed to access, providing added protection against
undiscovered security vulnerabilities.

Memory protection: additional protection now prevents direct access to
system memory through /dev/mem and /dev/kmem, and the lower 64K of
system memory is no longer addressable by default, changes which help to
defend against malicious code.  Many applications are also now built as
Position Independent Executables, making it harder for application security
vulnerabilities to be exploited.

Virtualization and iSCSI: KVM is now part of the official Ubuntu Kernel, 
which, combined with libvirt, allows for simple and efficient virtualization 
on hardware that support virtualization extensions (AMD-V or Intel-VT). 
Mounting iSCSI targets is now supported (including in the installer),
allowing Ubuntu to interoperate with this class of cost-efficient Storage
Area Network.

Ubuntu Education Edition
------------------------

Add-on configuration: Edubuntu is now provided as an add-on to Ubuntu
instead of as a separate stand-alone flavor, permitting even greater reuse
of Ubuntu technologies.

Kubuntu features
----------------

Kubuntu comes with the rock solid KDE 3 for those who want a commercially
supported desktop.

For those who want something more exciting, a KDE 4 Remix is available bringing
this cutting edge new version to you first.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/HardyHeron/Beta/Kubuntu for details.

Xubuntu features
----------------

Xubuntu comes with the light-weight Xfce 4.4.2 desktop environment for those who want to a 
desktop that is easy to use, but places particular emphasis on conserving system resources.  

Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyHeron/BetaAnnouncement/Xubuntu for further details.

New additions to the family
---------------------------

Two new variants join us for this Ubuntu beta.  UbuntuStudio and Mythbuntu have done
releases separately in the past, and with Hardy Heron Beta we're happy to be able to
welcome these fine community projects into the main Ubuntu release process.

Other
-----

* On the Desktop: KDE 3.5.9, GNOME 2.22, OpenOffice.org 2.4.0rc2, X.org 7.3

* On the Server: Apache 2.2, PostgreSQL 8.3, PHP 5.2.4, LTSP 5.0

* "Under the hood": GCC 4.2.3, glibc 2.7, Linux 2.6.24, Python 2.5

The full release notes can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/hardybeta

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

To Get Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Beta
---------------------------

Download Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:

    http://gb.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Great Britain)
    http://ubuntu.elasztik.hu/ubuntu.bitmind.hu/8.04 (Hungary)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Italy)
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (The Netherlands)
    http://mirror.muntinternet.net/pub/ubuntu/releases/8.04 (The Netherlands)
    ftp://ftp.uninett.no/linux/ubuntu-iso/8.04 (Norway)
    http://ftp.vectranet.pl/ubuntu-releases/8.04/ (Poland)
    http://ubuntu.ynet.sk/release/8.04/ (Slovakia)
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Sweden)

  Asia:

    http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Taiwan)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

To upgrade to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Beta from Ubuntu 7.10,
follow these instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades

The final version of Ubuntu 8.04 is expected to be released in April 2008.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you
can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn this Beta
into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report bugs through the
Launchpad bug tracker:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but are not
sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, on the Ubuntu
Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:  

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
