{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce the Release Candidate for Ubuntu
8.04 LTS (Long-Term Support) on desktop and server.  Codenamed "Hardy Heron",
8.04 LTS continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of integrating the latest and
greatest open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux
distribution.

We consider this release candidate to be complete, stable, and suitable
for testing by any user.

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop Edition features incremental improvements to
familiar applications, with an emphasis on stability for this second Ubuntu
long-term support release, and is easier than ever to try out with the new
Wubi installer.

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Server Edition follows in the footsteps of Ubuntu 7.10 with even 
more virtualization support and security enhancements - enabling AppArmor
for more applications by default, improving protection of kernel memory
against attacks, and supporting KVM and iSCSI technologies out of the box.

The Ubuntu 8.04 LTS family of variants, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, UbuntuStudio, and
Mythbuntu, also reach RC status today.

The final release of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS is scheduled for 24 April 2008 and
will be supported for three years on the desktop and five years on the server.

Before installing or upgrading to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS please read
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes

About The Release Candidate
---------------------------

The purpose of the Release Candidate is to solicit one last round of
testing before the final release. Here are ways that you can help:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu, Kubuntu, or Edubuntu 7.10 to the Release
   Candidate by following the instructions given above.

* Participate in installation testing using the Release Candidate CD
   images, by following the testing and reporting instructions at
   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO

Desktop features
----------------

Improved application selection: the GNOME desktop sports a number of
improvements to the default applications, including more feature-full
clients for BitTorrent and VNC, as well as an advanced UI for mastering CDs
and DVDs.

File browsing: an enhanced filesystem layer brings greater performance and
flexibility to Nautilus, the GNOME file browser.

Pluggable audio and video output: the PulseAudio sound server is integrated
in the GNOME desktop for more flexible sound output, and a new Screen
Resolution utility allows easier configuration of multiple video displays.

Wubi installer: a new Windows-based installer option makes it easier than
ever to try out Ubuntu, letting users install a full desktop on Windows
systems without needing to partition their hard drive.

Server features
---------------

AppArmor profiles: a greater number of server applications are now protected
by default with AppArmor, a kernel technology that limits the resources an
application is allowed to access, providing added protection against
undiscovered security vulnerabilities.

Memory protection: additional protection now prevents direct access to
system memory through /dev/mem and /dev/kmem, and the lower 64K of system
memory is no longer addressable by default, changes which help to defend
against malicious code.  The kernel now also loads Position Independent
Executables at randomized addresses, making it harder for application
security vulnerabilities to be exploited.

Virtualization and iSCSI: KVM is now an officially maintained option, which
combined with libvirt (CLI) and virt-manager (GUI) management tools allows 
for a simple and efficient virtualization option on hardware that supports 
virtualization extensions (AMD-V or Intel-VT).  Mounting iSCSI targets is
now supported (including in the installer), allowing Ubuntu to interoperate
with this class of cost-efficient Storage Area Network solutions.

Ubuntu Education Edition
------------------------

Add-on configuration: Edubuntu is now provided as an add-on to Ubuntu
rather than a separate stand-alone flavor, permitting even greater reuse
of Ubuntu technologies.

Kubuntu features
----------------

Kubuntu comes with the rock solid KDE 3 for those who want a commercially
supported desktop.

For those who want something more exciting, a KDE 4 Remix is available
bringing this cutting edge new version to you first.

Please see https://wiki.kubuntu.org/HardyHeron/RC/Kubuntu for details.

Xubuntu features
----------------

Xubuntu comes with the light-weight Xfce 4.4.2 desktop environment for those
who want to a desktop that is easy to use, but places particular emphasis on
conserving system resources.

Please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyHeron/RCAnnouncement/Xubuntu for
further details.

New additions to the family
---------------------------

Two new variants join us for this Ubuntu release.  UbuntuStudio and Mythbuntu
have done releases separately in the past, and with Hardy Heron we're happy
to be able to welcome these fine community projects into the main Ubuntu
release process.

A more complete tour of the features new in 8.04 LTS can be found at
http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/804rc

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

To Get the Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Release Candidate CD
-----------------------------------------------

To perform a new installation or try out 8.04 LTS "live" from CD, download
the Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Release Candidate (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:

    http://ftp.belnet.be/mirror/ubuntu.com/releases/8.04 (Belgium)
    http://ubuntu.linux-bg.org/releases/8.04 (Bulgaria)
    http://hr.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Croatia)
    http://mirror.u-soft.dk/ubuntu-releases/8.04 (Denmark)
    http://ftp.crihan.fr/releases/8.04 (France)
    http://ftp.uni-muenster.de/pub/mirrors/ftp.ubuntu.com/releases/8.04 (Germany)
    http://gb.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Great Britain)
    http://ftp.ntua.gr/pub/linux/ubuntu-releases/8.04 (Greece)
    http://ie.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Ireland)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Italy)
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (The Netherlands)
    http://ftp.snt.utwente.nl/pub/linux/ubuntu-releases/8.04 (The Netherlands)
    http://no.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Norway)
    http://neacm.fe.up.pt/pub/ubuntu-releases/8.04 (Portugal)
    http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Spain)
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Sweden)

  Asia/Pacific:

    http://tw.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Taiwan)
    http://ubuntu-releases.optus.net/8.04 (Australia)
    http://nz.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (New Zealand)

  Africa:

    http://za.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (South Africa)

  North America:

    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (United States)

  South America:

    http://br.releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Brazil)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.04 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.  See
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BitTorrent for more information about
using Bittorrent.

Upgrading from Ubuntu 7.10 and Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
----------------------------------------------

To upgrade to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Release Candidate from Ubuntu 7.10 or
Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, follow these instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches, and suggestions will help turn
this release into the best release of Ubuntu ever. Please report bugs
through the Launchpad bug tracker:

  https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode,
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on our
website, IRC channel, and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
