{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

 '''UNDER CONSTRUCTION !'''
* Contact: <nowiki>[[Luigi_de_guzman]]</nowiki>

== Ubuntu on the Thinkpad 570e ==

=== Installation Howto ===

A while back, I reported some <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219601|problems]]</nowiki> installing Xubuntu Dapper on an old IBM Thinkpad 570e.  

I determined, after some work (a more detailed report on those problems should be forthcoming) that the default Dapper kernel was at fault.  Therefore, I present the following HOWTO for installing Dapper on an IBM Thinkpad 570e:

In all of the following, I am assuming you have access to an Ultrabase docking station equipped with a CD-ROM drive.  I am not aware of any other way of installing OSes on this model Thinkpad that does not involve the Ultrabase.

==== STEP ONE:  Installing a base system (Breezy) ====

The default Dapper kernel can't deal with PCMCIA cards on the Thinkpad 570e.  Luckily, Breezy's does--as do later versions of the Dapper kernel available from apt.  Since the '''only''' network connectivity you even have a chance of getting with this model is via a PCMCIA adaptor, installing Dapper from CD and then upgrading is not an option.

So first, obtain a BREEZY (5.10) installation CD.  Boot with this in the CD drive.  

At the 
<pre>
boot:
</pre>

prompt, type 

{{{ 
server
}}}

Follow the prompts.  When it's all over, you will reboot into your new--very minimal--breezy install.

Ensure that your pcmcia network adaptor is detected and configured.  

==== STEP TWO:  Upgrading to Dapper ====

The next step is to update to dapper, bypassing the broken kernel distributed on the CDs and grabbing a newer version.

For this, you must edit 
<pre>
/etc/apt/sources.list
</pre>

Use the text editor of your choice.  Mine is vim:

<pre>
sudo vim /etc/apt/sources.list
</pre>

comment out the line for the CD and change all references to "breezy" to "dapper"

when you're done, save and quit.  now execute

<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

which will download the package lists for dapper.  Then

<pre>
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

will dist-upgrade you from Breezy to Dapper.  Note that because we're in a 'server' install, with nothing but the base system, this will be pretty quick--well, not super-quick, but faster than dist-upgrading a 'full' ubuntu install.

Let the upgrade complete.  Then, reboot.  You're now Dapper!

==== STEP THREE:  Bells & Whistles ====

Once we're satisfied that all our hardware is detected, it's a simple matter of getting the necessary packages.  

Since this is an old laptop, the logical choice is <nowiki>[[Xubuntu]]</nowiki>:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
</pre>

will download, configure, and install all the packages that would otherwise be on the Xubuntu Dapper CD.  You might also want to think about a very light install, as recommended by the <nowiki>[[LowMemorySystems]]</nowiki> wikipage

==== EPILOGUE:  Hardware quirks and TODO ====

===== Display Depth ====
There is one notable and well-known hardware quirk when configuring X on these laptops.  They only have enough video ram for 16-bit color depth, but Ubuntu sets them up for 24-bit color depth by default.  Performance consequently suffers.  

Edit 
<pre>
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

Scroll until you see the section marked "Screen"  at the "DefaultDepth" line, change the value from 24 to 16.  Save and quit, then kill and restart the X server.  Things should run a bit better now.

===== TODO: ======

Enabling APM suspend/hibernate and Fn-keys, test IrDA.

=== Current Issues ===
==== Dapper ====
Stock Dapper install from CD does not support PCMCIA.  Suspect this is a kernel issue, but has since been fixed in subsequent Dapper updates.  For a clean Dapper install, follow directions in the howto, above.

==== Edgy ====

Not yet tested.

=== System Info ===

* Brand: Thinkpad
* Make : IBM/Lenovo
* Model: 570E
* Website: 

{{{
}}}

=== Hardware details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Installation works?
| Mostly (see above)
| Untested
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-4> '''Hardware Information'''
|-
| <-4> '''Screen & Monitors'''
|-
| <|2> '''Device'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> '''Bug #'''
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Screen
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct resolution?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct refresh rate?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| 3D Acceleration
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor works?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - mirrors
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External monitor - extend desktop
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Power Management'''
|-
| Battery detected?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hibernates?
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Sleep
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Dim monitor on battery
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Blank monitor on inactivity
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Lid Close
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Cpu frequency scaling
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Sound'''
|-
| Sound works?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Correct volume?
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Hardware volume switch
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Headphone jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Mic jack
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Networking'''
|-
| Wired NIC
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| Wireless NIC
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA NIC
| Yes, but only if installed as described above
| Untested
| 
|-
| Firewire
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| Bluetooth
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested; Known to be a WinModem
| Untested
| 
|-
| Infrared
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Touchpad & Mice'''
|-
| TrackPoint
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - USB
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External mouse - Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Docking Station/Port Replicator'''
|-
| AC through replicator
| No, nor in Windows 98, either.  Suspect second battery must be installed in dock to make AC work
| Untested
| 
|-
| USB
| Yes
| Untested
| 
|-
| Serial
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - VGA
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| External Monitor - DVI
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| Modem
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| NIC
| N/A
| Untested
| 
|-
| PS/2
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-4> '''Additional Hardware'''
|-
| CD/DVD drive
| Yes, in Dock ONLY
| Untested
| 
|-
| PCMCIA cards
| Yes, if installed following method above
| Untested
| 
|-
| Parallel Ports
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <-6 tablewidth="75%"> '''Function and other keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Fn key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| + Space
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + Esc
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F1
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F2
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F3
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F4
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F5
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F6
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F7
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F8
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F9
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F10
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F11
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + F12
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowRight
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + ArrowLeft
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgUp
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| + PgDown
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|-
| <-6> '''Other special keys'''
|-
| <|2> '''Key'''
| <|2> '''Operation'''
| <|2> '''Keycode'''
| <-2> '''Works?'''
| <|2> Bug #
|-
| in Dapper (current stable)?
| in Edgy (current development)?
|-
| Key
| 
| 
| Untested
| Untested
| 
|}

==== Notes ====

----
CategoryLaptop
