{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== This page has been replaced ==
These laptop tests are now out of date, for newer tests see the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki> pages

Notes on installation and compatibility of Ubuntu with IBM laptop computers.

== Summary ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Installs ?'''
| '''Not working'''
| '''Ubuntu Release'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad 570E
| Yes
| (as of 08/06): Vanilla Dapper install breaks PCMCIA;  must install Breezy and dist-upgrade.  Not working: APM suspend/hibernate.  Modem untested.
| v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| <nowiki>[[/LaptopTestingTeam/Thinkpad570E]]</nowiki>
| 2006-07-??
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad 600E
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad 600X
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad A21m
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad A31p
| Yes
| 
| (Warty)
| Details below
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad R30
| Yes
| Suspend/Sleep/TV-Out.
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)
| Modem and IrDA untested. Exec 'sudo apt-get install tpb' and relogin to use Thinkpad buttons.
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad R31
| Yes
| TV-Out
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)
| Details below.
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad R40
| Yes
| 
| 
| Modem untested, Irda (FIR mode not tested,SIR mode ok). ACPI suspend working with current 2.6 kernels, but taking a lot of power. Very good APM support.
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad R50p
| Yes
| 
| (Warty) & v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem untested. Wireless (Airo) works, but with WEP, there are ~30% packets loss. Bluetooth works but must be enabled manually : <code>echo enable > /proc/acpi/ibm/bluetooth</code>. Note (Wouter de Vries) : Can't connect using ipw2100 (does load), installed ndiswrapper manually, which works. After enabling/disabling wireless a couple of times using the button the computer hangs.
| 2004-12-04
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad R50e
| Yes
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Modem untested. Suspend to RAM doesn't work. Hibernate works.
| 2006-06-04
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad R51
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem untested. Wireless works. Hibernate From System->Log Out does suspend to Ram and there is no way to wake up from that. Thinkpad buttons (volume) do not work (have tpb installed).
| 2005-04-12
|-
| IBM
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/ThinkpadR52?action=show&redirect=HardwareSupport%2FMachines%2FLaptops%2FIBM%2FThinkPad%2FR52|Thinkpad R52]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Modem, external display and TV out untested yet
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Sleep/suspend to RAM doesn't work. Probably because of a <nowiki>[[http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=linux-kernel&m=111504542402455&w=2|kernel problem with SATA]]</nowiki> (untested patch for 2.6.12 available <nowiki>[[http://thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_make_ACPI_work|here]]</nowiki>). Hybernate works fine out of the box.
| 2005-07-??
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T20
| Yes
| 
| 
| See <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Installing_Ubuntu_on_a_ThinkPad_T20|ThinkWiki page]]</nowiki> for details
| 2007-02-19
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T21
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)
| Infrared and TV out untested, Modem works with correct drivers, see DialupModemHowto and follow the instructions to get and use ScanModem to determine what modem is present and how to get the drivers for it. I've not found anything that doesn't work yet.
| 2006-04-14
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T22
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem untested. Needs APM: add <code>acpi=off nolapic</code> to kernel options in <code>/boot/grub/menu.lst</code>, add <code>apm</code> to <code>/etc/modules</code>, and add <code>shpchp</code> and <code>pciehp</code> to <code>/etc/hotplug/blacklist</code>. Changing <code>cs46xx</code> to <code>snd-cs46xx</code> in <code>/etc/hotplug/blacklist.d/alsa-base</code> caused sound to work across sleep cycles.
| 2005-07-30
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T23
| Yes
| 
| (Warty), v5.04 (Hoary) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| Breezy Installs, but kernel doesn't boot. Most things works fine, including DRI on Dapper. You need to install lucent drivers for the modem.
| 2006-03-08
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T30
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)& v6.10 (Edgy)
| I've been using Ubuntu as my main OS since I switch from debian. Further comments <nowiki>[[http://www.wookiewiki.org/JSPWiki/Wiki.jsp?page=UbuntuOnAThinkpadT30|here]]</nowiki>.
| 2007-02-18
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T40
| Yes
| 
| (Warty) & v5.04 (Hoary)
| Details below.
| 2005-01-01
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T40
| Yes
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Replaced Cisco Mini PCI 350 wireless card with Intel 2100 3B; WPA encryption works without fuss.
| 2006-08-??
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T40p
| Yes
| 
| 
| Modem untested. For suspend to RAM, needs APM (not ACPI) : add 'apm=on acpi=off nolapic' (without quotes) to kernel options in /boot/grub/menu.lst , add apm to /etc/modules, and add shpchp and pciehp to /etc/hotplug/blacklist.
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T41
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Modem untested.
| 2005-01-01
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T42
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below.
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T42P
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below.
| 
|-
| IBM
| Thinkpad T43
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1655549|Guide here!]]</nowiki>
| 2006-04-10
|-
| IBM
| X20
| Yes
| 
| v7.04 (Feisty)
| Modem untested.
| 2007-06-01
|-
| IBM
| X24
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Modem untested.
| 
|-
| IBM
| X21
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Modem untested.
| 2006-07-10
|-
| IBM
| X31
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below.
| 
|-
| IBM
| X40
| Yes
| 
| (Warty) & v5.04 (Hoary)
| Details below. There where some more information <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~daniels/x40/|here]]</nowiki> (missing or moved?).
| 
|-
| IBM
| x41
| Yes
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper Drake)
| Details below.
| 2007-01-22
|-
| IBM
| T60p
| Yes
| Suspend to RAM failed, Suspend to Disk Failed, network-manager-gnome applet did not find my wireless network card.
| v6.10 (Edgy) RC1
| Modem Untested.
| 2006-10-10
|-
| IBM
| Z60m
| Yes
| 
| v6.10 (Edgy)
| Details below.
| 2006-11-12
|-
| IBM
| Z61t
| Yes
| Sound doesn't un-mute after using the mute button on the keyboard (on Edgy)
| v6.06 (Dapper) & v6.10 (Edgy)
| 
| 2006-12-01
|}

== Details ==

==== IBM ThinkPad 570E ====

Stock Dapper kernel won't work on this one (PCMCIA issues).  Must install minimal Breezy ("server" installation option), then dist-upgrade to Dapper, then install Dapper packages. 

Howto (as posted in the forums, work in progress):

http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224723

Please see <nowiki>[[/LaptopTestingTeam/Thinkpad570E]]</nowiki> for full details 

==== IBM ThinkPad 600E (2645-8BA) ====
* Modem does not appear work
* Soundcard is detected (as ALSA module snd-cs46xx), but does not work (but has never worked on any other distribution); ALSA module snd-cs4236 does work
* It has ACPI capibilities, but due to the broken implementation that this laptop appears to have, it does not work.
* APM works (suspend/sleep OK)

==== IBM Thinkpad 600E (2645-AAU) - Appendice ====
* System has 192mb RAM (500mb swap), 12 gb hard drive, P2/366mHz
* Cisco 350-series PCMCIA wireless card is detected and works, but only if I '''sudo dhclient''' to make it get an IP address from DHCP server. The GUI utility wouldn't pick up DHCP address no matter how often I tried.
* Some accessories like Calculator, System Monitor show a half-drawn window then take 3-4 minutes to complete. Sometimes even after 10 minutes, the window hasn't finished drawing and I must 'Force Quit' (even wit available RAM and swap, and <10% CPU usage). Text Editor has *never* gotten to the point of beginning to draw the window frame... I get the 'wait' cursor for 30-45 secs then back to normal cursor.
* ACPI doesn't work. Battery icon always shows 0% & 'system running on battery power' even when system is plugged in.
* Firefox won't load ebay.com & locks up. I have to 'force quit'. But all other sites seem to work okay.
* OO Word Processor takes > 3 minutes to load the splash screen. Even after >10 minutes, still on splash screen; wordproc never opens.
* No sound.

* ''All in all this machine just doesn't seem to have enough oomph for ubuntu-desktop. Might try a lighter desktop instead ...''

==== IBM ThinkPad 600X (2645-8EG, 2645-8EU, 5EU) ====
* Modem: Untested (Winmodem detected, but I have not tried using it)
* Soundcard is detected, but does not work (? on my IBM 600X Warty the sound works perfectly out-of-box, seems to use module snd_cs64xx) (Mine too...)
* It has ACPI capibilities, but due to the broken implementation that this laptop appears to have, it does not work.
(It doesn't work by default, but just add "acpi=force pci=noacpi" to your kernel parameters
and it works fine, including acpi suspend to RAM.
When I suspend to RAM my screen turns funny purple and green colors, but pushing the Fn key
brings it right back. Note that acpi drivers are realatively new for this laptop,
so apm drivers are usually less buggy)
* APM currently does appear to work
(Again, doesn't work out of the box, but if you add the kernel parameters "acpi=off apm=on",
then add apm to your /etc/modules file it works just fine, including apm suspend to RAM)
* PCMCIA working with Aironet 4800 wireless 802.11b installed, also ZyAIR G-100 works out-of-box
(using the prism54 driver), orinoco cards work just fine too

==== IBM Thinkpad A21m ====

* Warty installs without hassle. Everything works, except that:
* I Haven't tried the modem
* IBM offers a Linux modem driver @ http://www-307.ibm.com/pc/support/site.wss/document.do?lndocid=MIGR-4VFTT3
ftp://ftp.software.ibm.com/pc/pccbbs/mobiles/ltmodem595lus.txt
* I Haven't tried suspend-to-disk
* TV-out doesn't work, at least out of the box. ATI (fglrx) Driver (from BinaryDriverHowto) doesn't work, instead complains about device not being found. Haven't tried GATOS etc.
* IRDA doesn't seem to work(?) H/W is found, and "irdadump" even finds a SonyEricsson phone when brought near the IRDA port, but opening /dev/ttySxx "doesn't work" (Unfortunately I don't remember what specifically went wrong)
* Sound and floppy don't work after resuming from Suspend-to-RAM. Processes using either seem to hang forever.
* Suspend-to-RAM with the instructions from SuspendHowto doesn't work, instead I edited the original scripts from /etc/acpi:

/etc/acpi/lid.sh

<pre>

. /usr/share/acpi-support/power-funcs

getXuser;

grep -q closed /proc/acpi/button/lid/*/state
if [ $? = 0 ]
then
### Start xscreensaver w/ "throttle" (blank screen)
    . /usr/share/acpi-support/screenblank
### Tell kernel to put us to sleep
    echo mem > /sys/power/state
else
### Lid was opened
### tell xscreensaver to get user/pass dialog and to "unthrottle"
    su - $user -c "xscreensaver-command -unthrottle"
    su - $user -c "xscreensaver-command -deactivate"
### automate ifup/ifdown, like mac os x?
### ifdown eth0
### ifup eth0
fi}}}

/etc/acpi/events/lidbtn
{{{

event=button[ /]lid
action=/etc/acpi/lid.sh
</pre>

==== IBM Thinkpad A31p ====

* Most everything works out of the box except modem/suspend (suspend-to-ram works fine if you use APM, not ACPI)

* Modem is an Intel 82801CA/CAM AC'97 Modem and I don't know if it works. I've never tried it.

* Wi-Fi works just fine out of the box.

* Bluetooth works just fine if you enable it early during boot. If you enable it later you have to restart bluez-utils (/etc/init.d/bluez-utils restart).

* APM suspend-to-RAM works fine (just add acpi=off nolapic to kernel options in /boot/grub/menu.lst , add apm to /etc/modules, and add shpchp and pciehp to /etc/hotplug/blacklist)

* ACPI suspend-to-RAM works ('echo -n 3 | sudo tee /proc/acpi/sleep' or 'echo mem | sudo tee /sys/power/state'). However, ACPI suspend takes ~10% of my battery per hour of suspend, while APM only takes ~1% - so until ACPI is fixed for this laptop, using APM or recompiling the kernel w/suspend-to-disk is recommended.

* Warty: Simultaneous loading of e100 and eepro100 by hotplug (see: https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2156)

==== IBM Thinkpad R31 ====
* Modem and IrDA untested.
* Mouse going haywire is fixed by adding "i8042.nomux=1" to the kernel parameters. (http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=413935)
* Pressing the middle button and use trackpoint to scroll fixed by editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"EmulateWheel"		"true"
	Option		"EmulateWheelButton"	"2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection}}}

==== IBM Thinkpad T40 ====
* All hardware detected during Warty install and smooth upgrade to Hoary as of 12.2004.
* After making changes to the ACPI configuration as documented at SuspendHowto, suspend-to-RAM works perhaps 10% of the time on lid close. Most of the time, T40 blanks screen but does not suspend.
* APM not tested.
* Note: wireless card test was Atheros chipset. This is not the default wireless card for most T40s.
* Perhaps some issues with the Atheros driver. System will sometimes hang with solid drive activity light when using wireless. This behavior has not been present when wireless not in use.
* Feel free to contact nathan.valentine@venntech.net if you have any questions.

* Using with Hoary as of 1/2005 -- works great with APM, once the hibernation partition is set up.  Suspend-to-RAM and hibernate (suspend-to-disk) both work.
* <code>laptop-mode</code> must be disabled, otherwise the kernel hangs when on battery; logged as <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=6108|bug 6108]]</nowiki>.  (JustinMason)

==== IBM Thinkpad T42 ====

* Most everything works out of the box except modem/suspend
* Modem is an Intel ICH4 softmodem - works with hsfmodem drivers, currently doesn't appear to work with slmodem drivers -- http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2011
* To get modem to work, you must install the linux-headers for your kernel and processor
 (linux-headers-2.6.8.1-3-386, for instance) , install build-essential,add snd_intel8x0m to /etc/hotplug/blacklist, reboot, and install the hsfmodem package for Debian from linuxant.com.
* APM suspend-to-RAM works fine (just add apm=on acpi=off nolapic to kernel options in /boot/grub/menu.lst , add apm to /etc/modules, and add shpchp and pciehp to /etc/hotplug/blacklist)
* ACPI suspend-to-RAM works if you make a suspend script that unloads the ehci_hcd module, does an ACPI suspend, and reloads the ehci_hcd module after the suspend (also, hsfmodem must be unloaded and reloaded if you are using it).  Info on this can be found on the web.  However, ACPI suspend takes ~10% of my battery per hour of suspend, while APM only takes ~1% - so until ACPI is fixed for this laptop, using APM or recompiling the kernel w/suspend-to-disk is recommended. 

NOTE: I have a T42 and suspend to disk/ram works fine. Just use 'acpi_sleep=s3_bios' for the grub options. 

NOTE: There is an experimental fix for the ACPI suspend-to-RAM issue, see https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1978 for more details.

==== IBM Thinkpad T42p (2378DYU) ====

* Wireless (Atheros), speedstepping, bluetooth, CDROM-reading, DVD-video-reading, sound, Ethernet (E1000), and USB work out of the box.
* Using "restricted" apt source, installing fglrx drivers makes binary ATI drivers work under XFree86.
* Need "pci=noacpi acpi_sleep=s3_bios" in grub kernel parameters to get ACPI working 100%.
* Suspend-to-RAM without glx extension loaded for ATI driver works after setting up ibm-acpi (http://ibm-acpi.sourceforge.net)
* No swsusp2 in Warty kernel so didn't try that.
* Shuts down fine on boot.
* Thinkpad buttons work (volume, etc) after installing tpb package
* All input devices work fine (trackpoint, and touchpad works well with Synaptics driver).
* No splash screen on ubuntu kernel boot?  I don't think this is normal but have nothing to compare it to.  "PCI: address space collision on region 7 of bridge 0000:00:1f.0 [1000:107f]" before "Starting Ubuntu".  Rejiggering PCI IRQ assignments in BIOS to "Auto" does nothing.
* Couldn't get softmodem (Conexant?) working with linuxant or slmodem drivers but this may be related to http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2011
* Untested: infrared, DVD/CD-writing, external video, parallel, PCMCIA.

==== IBM Thinkpad T42p (2373-HSG) - Appendice ====

''David Allouche, 2004-11-07'': I created this entry after my personal experience. The steps described in the T42 and T42p (2378DYU) sections that I have tried work as advertised, but this setup is simpler, better explained, and works better. Feedback welcome.

Most features work out of the box. I have not tested the modem.

Suspend-to-RAM is enabled in the same way as for the X40, see <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~daniels/x40/|Daniel Stone's page]]</nowiki>.

Using the <code>fglrx</code> X driver improves the 3D performance over the default <code>ati</code> driver, but it has stability problems: it hangs at wake-up if DRI is enabled, so there is little point in using it at all.

Alt-F7 (external video switch) causes the system to hang with a black screen. It works with some experimental 2.6.10 linux package I tested, but then other things break (networking, cpu scaling).

'' Volume control ''

Breezy:

** Add your user to the <code>nvram</code> group: {{{
sudo adduser USER nvram
</pre>

Hoary:

** Add <code>nvram</code> to your <code>/etc/modules</code> file.  Edit <code>/etc/udev/permissions.d/udev.permissions</code> so lines 15 and 16 read: <pre>
 misc/nvram:root:audio:660
nvram:root:audio:660
</pre>

** Reboot or run <code>sudo /etc/init.d/udev restart ; modprobe nvram</code>

Both:

** Install <code>tpb</code> from Universe.

** Configure the session to run <code>tpb</code>:
*** Select the "Computer -> Desktop Preferences -> Sessions" menu item.
*** Select the "Startup Programs" tab.
*** Click the "Add" button.
*** Type <code>tpb</code> in the "Startup Command" field.
*** Click the "OK" button.

** Log out and log back in.  You can edit the behavior for the keys in <code>/etc/tpbrc</code>.

==== IBM X31 ====

* No CD-ROM, installation through netboot <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/support/documentation/howto/helpcenterhowto.2004-11-26.2137127791|Netboot Install Remarks]]</nowiki>
* Automatic detection of Wirless (IPW2100 intel centrino)
* Automatic installation of X and video drivers as well as sound.
* Speedstep 600 MHz to 1.5 GHz working fine.
* Plug and play for USB camera (sony cybershot U20) and other USB storage
* ACPI working in principle. Sometimes the display gets messed up and only rebooting helps.
* Compact Flash reader, Irda, IEE1394 (firewire) not tried

==== IBM X40 ====

===== Installation =====

* No CD-ROM, installation from
** USB CD-ROM drive (works)
** USB key (not tested, a link to guide would be great)
** Network PXE - see [LocalNetInstall] for details
* Automatic detection of network interfaces
** Wired Intel 10/100/1000 (works)
** Wirless (Atheros chipset) (works, but I'm experiencing small issues, see below).
** Modem (not tested)
* Automatic installation of X.org
** Video drivers (works)
** Screen resolution (works)
** Mouse dot (works)
** Sound (works)

===== Running Ubuntu =====
* External monitor (works, with hoary: <nowiki>[[http://www.chronox.de/x40_linux/linux_on_x40.html#dual_head_configuration_with_x_org|x.org with and without xinerama]]</nowiki>)
* Power savings with ACPI (works, see below)
* Suspend with ACPI
** To RAM (works, but I'm experiencing small issues, see below)
** To disk (not tested)
* Speedstep working (600 MHz to 1.2 GHz)
* Plug and play for USB devices
** USB key (works, tested with a Kingston 256MB USB 2.0 key)
** USB CD-ROM RW (works, tested with a Freedom drive)
** Camera (not tested)
* PCMCIA slot (works)
* Bluetooth (works, <nowiki>[[http://usefulinc.com/software/gnome-bluetooth|GNOME unofficial support]]</nowiki>)
* SD card reader (not tested, need special drivers: N/A)

There is a nice GNOME Applet which shows the CPU frequency, which easily can be added to the GNOME Panel. USB keys automatically mounts and is showed on the desktop. USB CD burners is automatically detected and accessable with Nautilus Burn (havn't tried any other applications).
When using the unofficial packages for GNOME Bluetooth integration, remember to set class to 0x100100 in /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf:
{{{
device {
name "IBM X40";
class 0x100100;
...}}}

====== Power savings with ACPI ======
I'm not that into hardware but I can confirm that the fan speed is throttled up and down depending of the temperatur. Most of the time the fan is shut off.

====== Issues with the wireless ======
I can connect to networks both with and without encryption though I have some small issues when switching from an encrypted network to an unencrypted network with the network-admin program. Nice program btw, which enables one to have multiple network profiles. This might be a network-admin problem. I'm also not able to save passwords for the wireless networks in network-admin but I worked around this problem by manually edit /etc/gnome-system-tools/network/profiles.xml

====== Issues with suspend to RAM ======
The following is needed in the GRUB configuration "acpi_sleep=s3_bios" to avoid the screen turning black after sleep.
The bluetooth is turned off after waking from sleep (not true on Warty). Sometimes (very rarely) when I close the lid the laptop doesn't enter sleep mode, but when I open the lid again it sleeps. Not really a problem other than you have to check if it enters sleep mode so you don't put it into you back while it is running, I can get hot when it can't get rid of the hot air. Two times I experienced that the laptop didn't wake up properly, this results in that the wireless doesn't get activated, the text consoles is unuseable (they are just black), and when you try to restart X the screen is just black. When this happens the laptop doesn't go to sleep when shutting the lid (or pressing Fn + F4).

==== IBM X41 ====

* Works out-of-the-box
** Graphics
** Sound
** Wifi
** BlueTooth
** Hardware Keys
** Battery Monitor
** PCMCIA
** Suspend
** Keyboard Light

* Needs work
** Trackpoint Middle-button
** SD/MMC Card Reader
** Fingerprint Reader

* Not Tested
** Modem

===== Fixing what needs work =====

* Trackpoint Middle-Button

The Trackpoint middle-button allows you to scroll.

To get it working we will need to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and add the following lines
to the InputDevice section, and on the  Identifier “Configured Mouse" sub-section, right 
before the Endsection line:

{{{
Option "EmulateWheel" "true"

Option "EmulateWheelButton" "2"}}}

Now restart X (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE) and test it.

* SD/MMC Card Reader

At the time of this writting SDHCI is already standard on the Kernel.
In order to get the SD and MMC card reader, you just have to load to the kernel itself,
using 'modprobe'.

<code>modprobe sdhci</code>

Now, I wish this would make it work 100%, but it doesn't. I have tried several hacks
to get it to work like I want it (mount and umount / detect card while logged in) but with 
no success.

Restart the computer with the card enside the reader. It should be mounted and a shortcut on 
the Desktop. 

* Fingerprint Reader

I have not tested this myself (yet), butI have read several reports of it working as it should.

Please refer to the following web page for more information http://pavelmachek.livejournal.com/25060.html

==== IBM Z60m ====

* Most things were auto-detected at installation! So I will only list issues that needed manual configuration.

* Suspend-to-RAM:
** If your z60m has a built-in card-reader suspend-to-ram fails to resume proper. Workaround: add modules "sdhci mmc_block mmc_core" to MODULES-variable in "/etc/default/acpi-support"

* Fingerprint reader:
** There are no real opensource drivers available for it. But I got it working by following these instructions: http://thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_enable_the_fingerprint_reader

* Thinkpad special keys: 
** Most Fn-keys worked out-of-the box. For others (volume +/-, mute, ...) you need a little daemon called "tpb". Follow instructions made here: http://thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_get_special_keys_to_work

----
CategoryLaptop
