{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== This page has been replaced ==
These laptop tests are now out of date, for newer tests see the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki> pages

Notes on installation and compatibility of Ubuntu with Hewlett-Packard laptop computers.

== Summary ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Installs ?'''
| '''Not working'''
| '''Ubuntu Release'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| HP
| nc6220
| Yes
| n/a
| v5.04 (HP-Hoary)
| See details below.
| 2005-09-14
|-
| HP
| NC4000
| Yes
| 
| (Warty)
| See http://members.fortunecity.com/lennychen2002/linux/
| 2004-11-18
|-
| HP
| NC4200
| Yes
| N/A
| v5.04 (HP-Hoary), v6.06 (Dapper), v6.10 (Edgy), v7.04 (Feisty)
| <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPNC4200]]</nowiki>
| 2007-04-04
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| Evo N410c
| Yes
| n/a
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)
| http://thingy.apana.org.au/~fun/n410c/
| 2006-01-06
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| nc4010
| Yes
| Suspend
| v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| Hibernate works (2.6.15-19), suspend doesn't.  Everything else appears to work (sound, wifi, bluetooth, ect.)
| 2006-03-21
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| nc6120
| Yes
| See details below.
| v5.04 (HP-Hoary)
| Working like a charm, some minor bugs
| 
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| NC8000
| Yes
| SD-card reader (not ubuntu specific)
| 
| 
| 
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| NW8240
| Yes
| SD-card reader
| v5.04 (Hoary), v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPNW8240]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPNW8240-Kubuntu]]</nowiki>
| 2006-02-08
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| NX5000
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below
| 
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| nx6110
| Yes
| wireless led
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| All in all works fine, although several things not tested, see below.
| 2005-11-23
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| nx6120
| Yes
| SD-card reader (identified but not tested)
| v5.04 (HP-Hoary), v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPNX6120]]</nowiki> <<BR>>Wi-Fi and Firewire not tested. Everything else works.
| 2006-06-02
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| nx7010
| Yes
| SD-card reader (not Ubuntu specific).
| v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPNX7010]]</nowiki>
| 2006-05-04
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| nx7400
| Yes
| Power management in 6.10
| 6.10, 7.04
| Don't checked for power management in 7.04, modem, PCMCIA and firewire not tested, everything else working fine out of the box :)
| 2007-02-18
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| NX9020
| Yes
| External monitor switch with XFree (but it's working with X.org)
| 
| PCMCIA & Modem not tested.
| 
|-
| HP (Compaq)
| NX9030
| Yes
| 
| 4.10, 5.04, 5.10, 6.06, 6.10, 7.04
| No problems, ACPI behaves oddly (battery status wrong, but charge always right). PCMCIA & Modem not tested.
| 2007-01-08
|-
| HP
| Omnibook 500
| Yes
| 
| 
| Pcmcia, ACPI, extra keys, modem, video out not tested
| 
|-
| HP
| Omnibook 900b
| Yes
| Close screen to suspend
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| After 1st install reboot, screen begins flashing for approx 30 minutes, but will eventually present a login screen. USB & PCMCIA work.
| 2005-05-11
|-
| HP
| Omnibook XE4500
| Yes
| Wireless-Lan (prism2_usb) doesn't work although the driver is loaded (might be that I just don't know how to configure it)
| 
| CD burning not tested. If freeze pb you sould use acpi=off.
| 
|-
| HP
| Omnibook XT6200
| Yes
| Modem
| 
| 
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon DV1066ea (DV1000 series)
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary), v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper)
| Details below.
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV1250ea (DV1000 series)
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Touchpad tap-to-click doesn't seem to work properly. Wireless seems to need linux 2.6.10-586.
| 2005-07-03
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV5000t
| Yes
| card reader, mic jack.
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| http://www.ubuntops.com
| 2006-07-??
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV7-1070el
| Yes
| audio, fingerprint reader, dvb-t tuner
| v9.04 (Jaunty)
| Audio was not working properly, but I just added "options snd-hda-intel enable-msi=1" in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf and it worked.
| 2009-06-21
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV8210us (DV8000 series)
| Yes
| Suspend.
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Wireless needs bcm43xx-firmware installed.
| 2006-05-30
|-
| HP
| Pavilion DV6600 (mentioned 6500 in bios)
| Yes
| 
| 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon)
| Audio needs to install backports  (synaptic->repository->updates->backports, and then install generic linux backported drivers - wifi works fine
| 2008-01-03
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZD7320ea (ZD7000 series)
| Yes
| 
| (Warty)
| Details below.
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZD7150ea (ZD7000 series)
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)
| Details below.
| 2005-11-26
|-
| HP
| Pavilion ze2308wm
| Yes
| Modem
| v5.10 (Breezy) & v6.06 (Dapper) beta
| Details below.
| 2006-04-24
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZE4125
| Yes
| Suspend to both RAM and disk
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Use linux vga=791 at boot for correct console resolution. v5.04 (Hoary) only.
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZE4355ea
| Yes
| 
| 
| CD burning not tested.
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZE4453ea
| Yes
| 3d-acceleration & some hotkeys.
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| PCMCIA/Parallel/Seriel NOT tested. See <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPze4453ea]]</nowiki>
| 2005-10-26
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZE4550
| Yes
| 
| 
| Only boots with noapic and nolapic (on bootup screen type "linux noapic noalapic").
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavilion ze4950ea (ze4900 series)
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy) & v7.04 (Feisty)
| Details below.
| 2007-05-03
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZE5640ea (ZE5600 series)
| Yes
| 
| 
| CD burning and IEEE1394 not tested
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZV5120US (ZV5100 series)
| Yes
| Battery status (only percent, same in XP), wireless (unless ndiswrapper + bcmwl5.inf), modem (unless precompiled slmodemd from linmodems.org, use sudo slmodemd --alsa -c USA modem:1), touchpad scrolling (that's no problem), 3D (failed with ati drivers), DVD playback (crappy w/ libdvdcss2), suspend/hibernate (neither to disk nor to drive, wish it worked)
| v5.04 (Hoary) & v5.10 (Breezy)
| Ethernet card not tested but seems okay. Very very nice with this laptop when compared to other distros.
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZV5132ea (ZV5000 series)
| Yes
| Touchpad, battery status (only percent), modem
| (Warty)
| Needs noapic to boot. Needs manual configuration for nVidia [GeForce4 440Go].
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZV5132ea (ZV5000 series)
| Yes
| Modem, resume from RAM (nvidia graphics does not wake up), battery status (only percent).
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| <nowiki>[[http://jwk.de/linux/linux_on_laptop_ubuntu_hp_ZV5132ea|Configuration details by Jensens]]</nowiki>
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZV5242qv (ZV5000 series)
| Yes
| 
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Details below.
| 
|-
| HP
| Pavillon ZX5078cl
| Yes
| Suspend/resume, card reader
| 
| See http://mattsmith.hostmatrix.org/zx5078cl/ubuntu.html
| 2005-03-01
|-
| HP
| Pavilion zv6000
| Yes
| Hibernation, cardreader, volume buttons
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Amd64 wireless and video with help (Details below)
| 2005-11-13
|-
| HP
| Pavilion zv6131us
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Did not test modem, cardreaders, hibernation.  <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=52201|More details on setup.]]</nowiki>
| 2005-07-26
|-
| HP
| Pavilion zv6130us
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Wireless took a bit of effort but works, volume buttons don't work, AMD64 issues(totem crashes X, no flash, win32 codecs, etc), haven't tried 3d acceleration yet (see zv6131us above for more info)
| 2005-09-24
|-
| HP
| nx9110
| Yes
| CardReader, Sleep and hibernate, ati 9000igp not supported by fglrx driver
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Details below.
| 2005-12-05
|}

== Details ==

=== HP nx9110 ===

see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNX9110 for details!

=== HP (Compaq) NX5000 ===

* Bluetooth works out of the box.
* Had to replace ipw2200 kernel drivers and firmware with latest from <nowiki>[[http://ipw2200.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki> to get Wireless working.
* Have not tried CD burning, IrDA or IEEE1394.
* Conflict between HAL and onboard network card (Broadcom 4400).  Either disable D-BUS (<code>sudo /usr/sbin/update-rc.d dbus-1 remove</code>) or stop hotplug from loading the driver by adding b44 to /etc/hotplug/blacklist.
* VBIOS needs to be patched to enable 1400x1050. Download and compile <nowiki>[[http://perso.wanadoo.fr/apoirier/|855resolution]]</nowiki> then do `855resolution 4d 1400 1050`.
* Cannot wake from suspend.

=== HP (Compaq) nx6110 ===

==== Bugs ====
* Wireless LED is not working
* Often when having returned from suspend to RAM video playback causes X to go in a crash loop; only way out is Alt+SysRq+s (for sync) and then Alt+SysRq+b (for reboot) (or holding the power button to reset the machine)
==== Works ====
* Suspend to RAM
* Touchpad (incl. 3rd mouse button, scroll region)
* Speaker mute when headphones are jacked in
* Keyboard triggered Suspend to RAM (Fn+F3)
* CD burning, some notebooks have a DVD-RW burner, it also works
* Audio recording
* Battery status
* CPU frequency scaling
* Ethernet
* USB
* Wireless (Intel IPW2200, there exists a variant of this notebook with broadcom wireless)
* Suspend to disk
* Externa Monitor, only with dapper

==== Not tested ====
* Modem
* Firewire

(by MarkusBertheau2)

=== HP nc6120 ===
* Go to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/HPNC6120 for a more detailed description of the nc6xxx series' key features.

* Installed version is HP-Ubuntu (http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20050516/hoary-install-i386.iso)

* To get Hibernation (Suspend to disk) to work, I had to change the last line of /etc/default/acpi-support to:
<code>STOP_SERVICES="mysql irda-utils"</code>

* The Ipw2200 adapter disconnects itself from the network during work. I found a solution to this bug  here:
 http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=167782&postcount=46 
It is tested to work with kernel version 2.6.10-5-386 (installed ver reported by synaptic: 2.6.10-34.2). Even the blue led is working now!

* 3d accelleration is working, but only with MESA libraries. This has an impact on the performance.

* Cd-Burning is working (speed: 12x after removing autostart of nautilus burn:// in system -> settings -> changeable media) 

* 6in1 Card reader doesn't work because there are no drivers available at the moment.

* Not tested yet: DVD-Writer, Modem, PCMCIA.

* For questions: mail to phen at gmx dot de

=== HP Pavilion DV1066ea (DV1000 series) ===

* Most things seem to work out of the box, or with minor tweaking
* Sound, 1280x768 screen, wireless, 10/100 Mbit LAN, synaptics touchpad, 3D acceleration, CPU frequency scaling, CD/DVD rewriter all work well
* Modem not working, though not much time has been spent working on it.
* In common with several other HP notebooks, noapic is needed at boot-up to prevent random freezes.
* There's a small write-up on the install with more details at <nowiki>[[http://www.dbg400.net/dv1066ea.html]]</nowiki>
* Upgrading to Hoary adds suspend to RAM and suspend to disk.
* Wireless + WPA works well in Breezy & Dapper

=== HP pavilion ZD7320ea (ZD7000 series) ===

* Warty works mostly out of the box
* Touchpad works with the configuration detected during the installation. It behave strangely sometimes though.
* Widescreen can be easily configurated with XFree nv driver with the following in addition to the default configuration set during the installation <pre>
Section "Monitor"
 Identifier "widescreen"
 HorizSync 30-64
 VertRefresh 50-100
 Modeline "1440x900" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 +HSync +VSync
 Option  "DPMS"
EndSection
Section "Screen"
 Identifier "Laptop Screen"
 Device  "NVIDIA Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go 5200]"
 Monitor  "widescreen"
 DefaultDepth 24
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  24
  Modes  "1440x900"
 EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "ServerLayout"
 Identifier "Default Layout"
 Screen  "Laptop Screen"
 InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
 InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
 InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
</pre>I did not manage to have nvidia proprietary 3D driver working.
* Didn't try IrDA, Modem, Wifi and Suspend to disk (yet)
* Sound is working with alsa. But the quality is not very good (while it is very good under W(tm). Probably a config problem...
* Used to face problems to umount removable devices because of 'fam' (set by default install). Removing 'fam' (sudo apt-get remove fam) solved the problem.
* Some help can be found and requested at 'http://www.zd7000forums.com/viewforum.php?f=12'

=== HP pavilion ZD7150ea (ZD7000 series) ===
* Hoary works out of the box. I downloaded the ISO, booted it with the 'expert' parameter. The reason why is just that I wanted to see the works and not just the quick-install. No special apic,acpi parameters were needed!
* Touchpad works without any problem. I installed Ubuntu with an USB-mouse from Logitech plugged in for convenience and it works withou a hitch, scrolling everything.
* The default nvidia-driver detected everything perfectly and also started with the correct default resolution 1440x900. I used the guide on www.ubuntuguide.org to install the nvidia binary drivers. Installed without any problems and then I used this guy's http://excidium.net/zd7010-linux.html Device config to get the correct resolution.
* Ethernet-networking wasn't nearby but a Wifi-AP was. I had downloaded the ndiswrapper-deb and had the Broadcom-files on an USB-stick. I then used one of the simple HOWTOs from the forum and everything worked flawlessly.
* ACPI - NO PROBLEM! The hibernation sequence is a charm. It takes about 20-30s to shutdown and then when you restart, you are presented with GRUB. You choose your kernel-line and voíla! You're back at your Gnome-desktop. No GRUB-editing needed for me. Suspend-to-RAM has to be enabled according the ACPI-faq. No problem using it. Everything wakes up without problems, even the WLAN works within a second.

* Problems not yet solved: The battery applet in GNOME isn't being updated when running on battery. There is an ugly workaround one could use. If you issue 'acpi -V' in a console, the state is updated. If someone knows a 'clean' solution, please let me know.
NEW:Breezy fixes this problem, no need for that ugly hack.
Still not working: Built-in CB710 cardreader. 

=== HP Pavilion ze2308wm (ze2000 series) ===

Works out of the box 100% (if you don't count the modem) with Breezy and mostly with Dapper

* Wireless (bcm4318 chipset) under Dapper requires either bcm43xx or ndiswrapper to be disabled (see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx). Use the drivers from here: <nowiki>[[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/softwareDownloadIndex?lc=en&cc=us&dlc=en&os=228&product=1145342&lang=en&softwareitem=ob-36728-1|here]]</nowiki> for either module. From my experience, ndiswrapper seems to work better and more reliably, at least as of this writing.
* Modem seems to be only partially supported, played around with it in Breezy and got it to dial, but never would handshake.
* My laptop doesn't have the built in card-reader, so that may have issues (as others have reported here)
* Battery applet doesn't show time remaining, but it doesn't under Windows either, so this is most likely a hardware issue.

=== HP Pavilion ze4950ea (ze4900 series) ===
Everything working fine out-of-the-box with some minor Wifi issues.
==== Wireless Issues ====
Wireless works out-of-the-box, yet there are three annoyances:-
* Wireless LED is not working by default, although the wireless on/off button is working. Refer to <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/55780/comments/10|this entry for a fix]]</nowiki>.
* Finally, there's a firmware error which appears and causes it to disconnect which can be fixed. Refer to <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=409921&postcount=8|this post for a fix]]</nowiki>.

==== Not tested ====
* Modem
* Firewire (IEEE1394)
* DVD Burning (CD Burning is working fine)
* PCMCIA

=== HP pavilion zv5242qv (zv5000 series) ===

Generaly works out of the box with the Hoary preview

* pcmcia slot acts like it's working but no cards will return "ident" info from cardctl
* touchpad works, but sometimes on boot it fails.  log off/on fixes
* [GeForce4440Go] 440 Go 64M with 1280x800 works out of the box, but the official nvidia driver requires some tweaks
* broadcom wireless works with ndiswrapper.  used "wifi-radar" for wlan config and profiles
* 5n1 memory card reader doesn't work, seems to be unsupported in the kernel.
* extra buttons can be configured, including volume controls

Note that not all zv5000's are quite the same :) 

Note: Try for zv5000's PCMCIA in /etc/pcmcia/config.opts lines 'include port 0x3000-0x7fff' and 'memory 0xe8100000-0xe97fffff' (reboot required).

From unknown Tue May 17 19:59:13 +0100 2005
From: 
Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 19:59:13 +0100
Subject: HP NX6110, Celeron M360, Broadcom wifi
Message-ID: <20050517195913+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

Hoary install worked OK. Wifi needed to be setup according to ubuntu ndiswrapperhowto using the windows drivers on the HP driver CD, now OK. Suspend freezes the machine - no other problems so far. Recommend.

Note: according to this (http://www.heise.de/english/newsticker/news/58780) HP is offering a version of Ubuntu which supports all the hardware in the following laptops: nx6110, nc6120, nc6220, nc6230 and nc6000 (get it here: http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/custom/20050516/hoary-install-i386.iso)

=== hp Compaq nc6220 ===

generally works out of the box with Hoary.

... but xorg only displays 1280x1024 - the LCD can do 1440x1050 so everything looks a little blury.

==== How to fix: ====
* download 915resolution from  http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/download.html and compile
* run:  /usr/sbin/915resolution 32 1400 1050
* restart the X-Server:  kill $(ps -ef | grep /usr/X11R6/bin/X | awk '{print $2}')
* login and resize the Display through -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution to 1440x1050 and suddenly you can see clearer, now
* write a neat little start-up script to run 915resolution before gdm starts.

done.

=== HP pavilion zv6000 Series ===
Wireless and Video requires some special handling with breezy amd64 kernel.  

==== Install ====

* Pass <code>linux noapic debian-installer/framebuffer=false</code> to the kernel when booting the installer
* Use an ether cable or a wireless PCMCIA if you want to network before seting up the ndiswrapper
* The graphical login will fail: Add '<code>Option "NoAccel"</code>' (minus the single-quote marks) to the Device Section in <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code>
* The hardware clock is too fast: Add '<code>no_timer_check</code>' (minus the single-quote marks) to each kernel line in /boot/grub/menu.lst

==== Wireless with ndiswrapper ====

* The amd64 kernel with ndiswrapper needs the 64bit windows drivers from <code>https://www.synapsenow.com/synapse/data/7117/documents/WLAN_Broadcom_BG(3.100.64.0_logo).zip</code>
* ndiswrapper 1.5rc2 was needed
* Follow the instructions at http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=25683

==== WXGA Video ====

The xorg ati (radeon) drivers and vesa stretch 1027 to 1200.  Both the xorg that ships with breezy and the update have a bad libdri.a.  Also video playpack under Totem or gxine kills X under the radeon and vesa drivers.  As of November 2005 (xorg 6.8.2-77, fglrx64-6-8-0 8.18.8-2), the ATI drivers with an older libdri.a are required to fix the video.  some details of the fix are discussed at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=78466.  If the ati installer cannot build the driver, use alien to convert fglrx64_6_8_0-8.18.8-1.x86_64.rpm to a deb. 

* Download the amd64 driver from www.ati.com and install it
* Get a copy of http://mail3.mpr.org/mlomker/libdri.a.gz and replace <code>/usr/X11R6/lib64/modules/extensions/libdri.a</code>
* Revise your /etc/X11/xorg.conf device section by setting the driver to "fglrx":
* Revise your /etc/X11/xorg.conf Module section: <pre>
Load    "dbe"  	# Double buffer extension
Load	"freetype"
Load	"type1"
Load	"glx"
Load	"dri"
Load	"ddc"
</pre>

----
CategoryLaptop
