{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Preinstalled Tools ==

Ubuntu comes with several command line tools which might help you detect more hardware than the Hardware Manager.

* '''lshw''' lists all hardware.
* '''lshw -short''' provides a short hardware summary.
* Use '''cat /proc/cpuinfo''' for a crude, but quick way to display your processor information.
* '''lspci''' lists connected PCI cards.
* '''lsusb''' lists connected USB devices.
* '''cat /proc/net/dev''' lists all the network interfaces. Alternatively, try '''lshw -class network'''.
* '''cat /proc/ioports''' lists communication ports and adresses
* '''cat /proc/iomem''' shows the memory map and reserved zones.
* '''cat /proc/interrupts''' lists the interruption assignments.
* '''cat /proc/dma''' lists the Direct Memory Accessess
* '''lsmod''' lists the modules loaded by the kernel, and helpt to identify the hardware configured

== External Tools ==
* <nowiki>[[http://web.archive.org/web/20100216234545/http://www.dracoware.com/ppl/rtwomey/inventory.shtml|Ryan's Linux Inventory Aggregator]]</nowiki> is a Perl script that returns a nicely formatted, short hardware summary, including which drivers are used.

----
CategoryHardware
