{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== General Information ===

'''<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-August/000336.html|Hardy Heron]]</nowiki>''' is the code name for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.  It was released on 2008-04-24. See the <nowiki>[[HardyReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki> and find <nowiki>[[HardyReleaseParties]]</nowiki> in your area.

=== Reporting Bugs ===

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs through <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs|the Ubuntu bugtracker]]</nowiki>

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad|Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

=== Participate in Ubuntu ===

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

 http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

=== More Information ===

The next release after Hardy is codenamed IntrepidIbex; the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page contains a list of all Ubuntu releases.

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|wiki]]</nowiki>.

To sign up for future Ubuntu development announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's development announcement list at:

 http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce

More Kubuntu information can also be found at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Hardy|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>. 

----
CategoryMarketing
