{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 8.04.1 LTS, the
first maintenance update to Ubuntu's 8.04 LTS release.

In all, over 200 updates have been integrated, and updated installation
media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to be downloaded
after installation.  These include security updates and corrections for
other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and
compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

To Get Ubuntu 8.04.1 LTS
------------------------

To download Ubuntu 8.04.1 LTS, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download

Beginning with this maintenance release, users of Ubuntu 6.06 LTS will
be offered an automatic upgrade to 8.04 via Update Manager.  As always,
upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of charge.
For further information about upgrading, see

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/804

About Ubuntu 8.04.1 LTS
-----------------------

This is the first maintenance release of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, which continues
to be supported with maintenance updates and security fixes until April
2011 on desktops and April 2013 on servers.

Since its release, Ubuntu 8.04 LTS has seen widespread use in a variety
of desktop and server deployments, and received a great deal of feedback
from users.  The Ubuntu team has focused their efforts on resolving
issues reported by people deploying Ubuntu out in the real world,
including:

* Firefox has been upgraded to the final 3.0 release from Mozilla,
   correcting a number of issues discovered during their beta test.
   (#237690)

* The Samba client allows LANMAN authentication again, correcting
   problems connecting to some NAS and older Windows servers (#209520).

* Various problems with the FUSE interface to GNOME's new virtual file
   system have been fixed, correcting certain problems accessing
   network file shares (#211205, #212789).

* The behaviour of the timezone map in the live CD installer has been
   improved, making it simpler to understand and use (#203423).

* The "Hardware Drivers" application no longer reports the proprietary
   nVidia driver as being enabled when it isn't installed (#216650).

* The Transmission menu item is now called "Transmission BitTorrent
   Client" to clearly explain its purpose (#184238).

While we have fixed a number of audio-related issues, including a
scheduler problem that caused audio stuttering under load (#188226),
other audio playback problems may still exist, because so far we have
been unable to verify a targeted fix that does not cause regressions
for other users. We will continue to investigate this, and would welcome
people with problems to provide feedback on Luke Yelavich's test packages.
See https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191027 for details.

Updated images have also been released for members of the Ubuntu family
which do not carry the LTS (Long-Term Support) label, namely Kubuntu, the
Kubuntu KDE4 remix, Gobuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu``Studio, and Mythbuntu.
These additional images are provided to the community in response to
USN-612-1, a major security vulnerability identified earlier in the Ubuntu
OpenSSL packages, to ensure that secure installation images are available
to all users in the Ubuntu family.  For more information about this
security vulnerability, please see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/usn/usn-612-1

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn for a full list of Ubuntu security updates.
As of 2008-07-02, all updates affecting packages on the CD have been
applied.

A summary of notable updates follows.  See
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu for specific information about a
particular bug number.

Installer Updates
-----------------

* If the user opts to install "only free software", don't enable the
   'restricted' repository after installation (#220805)

* Correct root disk autodetection when using Wubi (#217348)

* Support displaying international filenames from the host system when
   running under Wubi (#136682)

* Fix hang when importing settings from Windows XP French edition and
   others (#222690)

* Fix netboot installation failures due to incorrect handling of installer
   components that had been updated since the 8.04 release (#94398, #234486)

Desktop Updates
---------------

* Remove a workaround which caused performance issues for evolution and
   should no longer be required (#219587)

* Disable window manager compositing for i815 chips due to garbled
   display output (#221920)

* Fix a hang when using the desktop panel clock together with evolution
   calendaring (#204775)

* Don't show mounts on the desktop that the user cannot access (#210379)

* Fix problem with Remote Desktop Viewer connecting to some servers
   (#206227)

* Fix hangs with gksu and update-manager when the hostname cannot be
   resolved (#237325)

* Restore frequency scaling on Intel Core 2 Duo systems after
   suspend/resume (#183033)

* Fix display on multiple systems with the intel video driver (#236001,
## 235643, #228519, #221984, #204603, #216490, #201257, #224102)

* Fix display on Geode GX2 hardware (#219630)

* Update to GNOME 2.22.2, fixing numerous bugs.

Server updates
--------------

* Present apache2 directory index listings as UTF-8 by default (#193753)

* Provide logging feedback to dovecot users when the login limit is reached
   (#189616)

* Fix network device ordering on some servers with multiple NICs (#225811)

* Incorporate significant fixes to OpenLDAP syncrepl functionality

General Updates
---------------

* Fix a problem with excess logging when libpam-smbpass is not installed
   (#216990)

* Update apparmor profile to allow access to /var/lib/samba/*.tdb, fixing
   an authentication-related CUPS crash (#217787)

* Fix duplex printing to Ricoh printers (#219999)

* Require password on root account when set and using recovery mode
   (#220986)

* Restore support for dmraid raid45 arrays (#220493)

* Return an error immediately instead of hanging when an NFS server returns
   permission denied (#214041)

* sudo no longer errors out if the hostname cannot be resolved (#32906)

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu channel on IRC.FreeNode.net, on
the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
