{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Long-Term Support)
on desktop and server, continuing Ubuntu's tradition of integrating the latest
and greatest open source technologies into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux
distribution.

Read more about the features of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS in the following press
releases:

  Desktop edition    http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-8.04-lts-desktop
  Server edition     http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-8.04-lts-server

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS will be maintained and supported for three years on the desktop
and five years on the server.

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS is also the basis for new 8.04 releases of Kubuntu, Xubuntu,
UbuntuStudio, and Mythbuntu:

  http://kubuntu.org/news/8.04-release
  FIXME: don't list these flavors without somewhere to link to, otherwise
  they can do separate announcements

8.04 brings a restructuring of Edubuntu as the Ubuntu Education Edition.  The
education desktop and application bundle now installs as an add-on to a
standard Ubuntu desktop.

  http://www.edubuntu.org/news/8.04-release

To Get Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
----------------------

To download Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu

Users of Ubuntu 7.10 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 8.04 via
Update Manager.  As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are
entirely free of charge.  For further information about upgrading, see

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading

Users of Ubuntu 6.06 LTS may wish to wait for the first point release
of 8.04 LTS, due in July 2008, before upgrading.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/804

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/804overview

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel, on the Ubuntu Users
mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
