{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Tally Genicom 8108N ==

=== PPD / Driver ===

* None for ubuntu
* VMware answer!
* Non-VMware: Equivalence to Lexmark c500n is promising

=== Supported ===

* Ubuntu automatically detects the printer, properly identifying it

=== works? ===

* VMware is the answer. CUPS detects the printer, install it as far as possible in ubuntu. Then install VMware server http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=779934 then a free Virtualpc windows image converted with qemu http://mapopa.blogspot.com/2008/06/running-ie6-ie7-and-ie8-on-your-ubuntu.html then a share with the windows VM http://2tap.com/2007/04/22/sharing-files-between-a-windows-guest-and-ubuntu-host-using-vmware-and-samba/ then install the [windows] 8108N driver in the windows VM, from the manufacturer's website / from the cd, in windows' "add printer" wizard it's a network printer, the cups printer you have already added to ubuntu. Hey presto! You transfer the files you need to print, to the windows VM, then print them from there. I have made the network connection to the 8108N, although from what I see, that may be unnecessary;

* It's taken me 2 years to discover that, saves booting into windows every time I need to print now; though the principle should be good for all windows printers without full cups support, turning paperweights into working printers

=== Ubuntu version ===

6.10, 7.04, 8.04

=== comments ===

as a cheap colour laser printer, it is surprising that no-one has yet written a driver to allow it to work with a free OS. Tally genicom's customer support were reticent..

It seems clear that the 8108N is a rebranding of the Lexmark c500n, so there is a strong possibility that instructions/ppd for the c500n would work for the 8108N; watch this space :-)

=== Last update ===

8 November 2011
----
CategoryHardware
