{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

The HiSilicon D06 board is an arm64 development board based on the <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HiSilicon#Kunpeng_920_(formally_Hi1620)|Hi1620 SoC]]</nowiki>.

=== Installation Notes ===

* Support for the HiSilicon D06 was added in Ubuntu 18.04.1 LTS ('BionicBeaver').
* If you prefer the console default to VGA (also viewable over the BMC KVM feature), configure the BIOS "ACPI SPCR TABLE" setting to "Disable". You can then force the console to appear over serial (including IPMI Serial-over-LAN), by passing the boot parameter "console=ttyAMA0". Alternatively, if you prefer the console default to serial, configure the BIOS "ACPI SPCR TABLE" setting to "Enable". You can force the console to appear over VGA (also viewable over the BMC KVM feature) by passing the boot parameter "console=tty0".
* The kernel parameter "iommu.strict=0" can be used to improve I/O performance. This does trade-off certain guarantees when it comes to device isolation. For more information see:
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1806488]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/admin-guide/kernel-parameters.txt]]</nowiki>.

=== MAAS Notes ===
* MAAS requires that the system PXE boot on every boot. It is recommended that you delete all entries from the boot menu except for the one that you will be using for PXE booting from MAAS. On subequent boots, the firmware will automatically add back various entries, but they should all be added *after* the PXE one. Note: firmware upgrades reset BIOS settings, so you will need to do this again after each firmware update.

