{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Introduction ===

The developers of Xubuntu are working at a furious pace to bring you Xubuntu 8.04, code named Hardy Heron.  This is the first in a series of alpha (pre-releases) before Hardy Heron in April 2008. 

'''NOTE:''' ''This is an alpha (pre-) release. Pre-release version of Hardy are '''__NOT__''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or for anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent, breakage. Pre-release versions of Hardy '''__ARE__''' recommended for Xubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.''

=== In General ===

The Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Xubuntu developers have created a series of goals and ideas for out Hardy Heron release, which you can check out <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy|here]]</nowiki>.

=== For Developers ===

According to the Ubuntu Developers Announcement mailing list:

''As a result of discussions during and prior to UDS Boston, the release team has opted not to do an archive freeze for this first milestone, so that we can ourselves focus on bugfixing rather than on reviewing the packages that others have uploaded.  Instead we are relying on you, our faithful and trustworthy developers, to time your changes appropriately so that we will be able to release an installable and (mostly) usable alpha next Thursday.''

This means that developers will have the added responsibility of making their changes in a timely manner but this also makes it easier to upload packages. 

=== Whats new ===

Panel sizes have changed.  The top panel is now larger than the bottom panel.

=== Testing ===

We need you to help test Xubuntu!  In the spirit of Free Software, we can all help improve Xubuntu and you can help by testing.  To begin testing, please see our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Xubuntu/Testing/TestingInfo|testing]]</nowiki> page.
