{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Kubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Kubuntu 8.04.2, the
second and final maintenance update to Kubuntu's 8.04 release.  This release
includes updated desktop, and alternate installation CDs for the i386 and 
amd64 architectures.  This update is provided in recognition that the current
Kubuntu release (8.10) with its cutting edge KDE 4 desktop is not yet
appropriate for all users.

In all, over 200 updates have been integrated, and updated installation
media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to be downloaded
after installation.  These include security updates, and corrections for
other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and
compatibility with Kubuntu 8.04.

To Get Kubuntu 8.04.2
------------------------

To download Kubuntu 8.04.2 visit:

  http://www.kubuntu.org/getkubuntu/download

Note: The alternate (non-live CD) for AMD64 is slightly over the normal size
limit used in Kubuntu. It is still smaller than standard CD capacities, but if
your CD burner has trouble with this image due to size, you should consider
one of the other images.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/804

About Kubuntu 8.04.2
-----------------------

This is the second maintenance release of Kubuntu 8.04, which
continues to be supported with maintenance updates and security fixes
until October 2009.

Over 200 post-release updates have been integrated, and a number of
bugs in the installation system have been corrected.  These include
security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a
focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Kubuntu 8.04.

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn for a full list of Ubuntu security updates.
As of 2009-01-20, all updates affecting packages on the CD have been
applied.

A summary of notable updates follows.  See
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug for specific information about a
particular bug number.  A complete list of post-release updates can
also be found at:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/8.04.2

Installer Updates
-----------------

* Create sambashare group and add the initial user to it (#238224)

* Permissions on some system files and directories were set wrong when
   installing from Desktop CDs.  For users tracking the recommended
   hardy-updates repository, this issue has already been corrected
   post-install (#288479)

* Record the partition table as changed when a single partition's file
   system type has changed, fixing bootloader installation failures
   when installing onto existing partitions (#149832)
	
* Fix writing of /var/log/installer/oem-id in OEM mode (#251751)

* Use the correct mirror for -security in the event of
   apt-setup/security_host being preseeded (#306356)

Desktop Updates
---------------

* KDE was updated to the current KDE3 release, KDE 3.5.10

* Fix codec installation loop on unsupported media in kaffeine
   (#210303)
	
* Fix khelpcenter's indexer to work with dash (#241916)
	
* Fix latexconvert in Kopete to work with dash (#183989)
	

* Fix latexconvert dash incompatibility (#267991)

* Fix problems with remote resources crashing kontact, most notably when using GCal (#286905)

General Updates
---------------

* Set hdparm power management to 254 for all hard drives while on AC, and 128
   while on battery (note that suspend/resume still breaks this, and a more
   complete fix will be forthcoming for Ubuntu 8.04.3) (#59695)

* Support CDs with no uncompressed Packages files, only compressed ones,
   enabling upgrade to future releases using CDs (#255545)

* Conflict with old mysql 4.1 packages to ensure smooth upgrades from
   Ubuntu 6.06 (#208695)

* Backport cifs.upcall, to support Kerberos-authenticated CIFS kernel mounts
   (#236830)

* e1000 checksum recheck after reset (#60388)

Helping Shape Kubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Kubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at

  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/HelpingKubuntu

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #kubuntu channel on irc.ubuntu.com, on
the Kubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Kubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kubuntu-users
  http://kubuntuforums.com/

About Kubuntu
------------

Kubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops and laptops built on
top of the K Desktop Environment (KDE), with a fast and easy install and 
regular releases.  A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications 
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks
away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Kubuntu on our website:

  http://www.kubuntu.org/

</pre>
