{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is for Ubuntu 6.10 (Edgy Eft).

=== Dependencies ===
You'll need to install alien and libstdc++5.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install alien
sudo apt-get install libstdc++5
</pre>

=== Installation ===
1. Google and download the rpms ([z700llpddk-2.0-1.i386.rpm] and [lexmark-z700-cups-driver-1.1.1-1.i586.rpm]).  I found them on http://users.cybercity.dk/~dko12479/.

2. Run though the following commands:
<pre>
sudo alien --to-deb *.rpm # convert unusable rpm packages to deb.
dpkg -i *.deb # install the debs
sudo ldconfig # refresh ubuntu to see the new libraries
cd /usr/share/cups/model
sudo gunzip gunzip Lexmark-Z700-lxz700cje-cups.ppd.gz # unzip the ppd, which should _not_ be gzipped
sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart # The driver is now installed. Restart the cups daemon.
</pre>

3. Now we run:
<pre>
/usr/lib/cups/backend/z700
</pre>
You should see something like:
<pre>
direct z700:/dev/usb/lp0 "Lexmark Lexmark Z700 Series" "Lexmark Printer"
</pre>

4. Now simply set up your printer using the new z700 driver. (ie: in GNOME: System->Administration->Printing).  Note: When selecting a driver in step 2, you need to click "Install Driver" and browse to /usr/share/cups/model/Lexmark-Z700-lxz700cje-cups.ppd.  

5. Reboot(?)
----
CategoryHardware

* I needed to reboot to make the changes functional.  Top margin is an issue.  Any whitespace at the beginning of document is removed and printout starts from top of paper.
----
CategoryHardware
