{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== WARNING ==
* Post known issues here

== Feedback ==
* Add feedback here 
* Wow!  What a list of new features!  Going to test these out as soon as I can! - digimars
* I hope Kubuntu developers consider this little patch for KDesktop for transparency support, that will allow the use of independent wallpapers on each viewport of "KDE+Compiz" desktops when Compiz is enabled, making compiz more integrated with Kubuntu (currently KDE paints the same wallpaper on each viewport), more info about the patch here: http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php/KDesktop+transparency+support?content=59864 - javielillo
* Was trying out Kubuntu on a brand new laptop before buying it this week and what can I say? Amazing work every single component worked right out of the box - astonishing work. Thank you! And with this version (I'm running it inside a VM for the moment) I can't believe how much great stuff you guys are adding! Thanks again and keep up the great work! - ANDREA
* I hope that in this version are included by default the drivers for my usb wireless network (in other versions of Kubuntu I have to install this driver: http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com/wiki/index.php?title=Downloads ).
* I need better support for nvidia/ati integration in kde, Better dual monitor support like buttons to move window from one screen to another,  also for laptops moving from dual to single monitor. 
* I need better mount support, if a mount fails it would be nice to be able to force a mount (I have to go to the console to force mount if a filesystem was not deattached properly in 'another os').
* Sometimes KDE wallet doesn't show up at the start of knetworkmanager so I cannot connect to networks.
* I note that as the installer formats the ext partition I get asked if I want to mount it.  I said no and everything proceeded fine.  It never did that before. -- MitchGolden 