{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''
* '''Please nest a reply when you are responding on another reaction. Otherwise it will grow in a mess.... Thank you.'''
* '''We do not usually respond to these comments, there are too many, but they do go directly into the developers e-mail and every one is read

== WARNING ==
Known issues:
* There is an issue with KDM and the nvidia binary driver, which renders KDM unusable in Hardy: https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/202855
* At least two of us have found the new kernel unable to see any filesystems after upgrading (see https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/213884). If you weren't thinking about taking a backup before you upgraded, you should do so in case you hit this problem; I would have been stuffed without mine. -- -- Tony Green

== Feedback ==

* I thought it was great -- -- nixternal  * Still no restricted manager in systemsettings; a good release, though. -- -- User23  * Looks like a very good release; one minor issue - i dont like the new default wallpaper - why dont just keep the gutsy one? -- -- Simonr5  * A new release and new improvements. I am happily surprised on how responsiveness it is to the user actions (ex. mouse clicks).
Something to improve: for Firefox there is no decent DIVX player plugin. VLC plugin does not play them, and the plugin for mplayer is not very stable, it makes many times crash Firefox. So DIVX support is a weak point. Of course you can copy the link and open it with Kaffeine, but that does not look professional nor user friendly. Well, there still work to do.
Great work!

I don't know why, but I can't do the online upgrade as described on https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades/Kubuntu. 
Running kdesu "adept_manager --dist-upgrade-proposed" doesn't give me a Version Upgrade button :-( Not even if I click "Fetch Updates" first.
/etc/apt/sources.list hasn't changed so it looks like a problem adding the new repository. I've filed bug 219637 in case anybody else has this problem and needs to refer to it. -- -- Tony Green

Several things are broken on my T61p
* resume-suspend is not stable, 
* when CPU load changes the mouse often stops working and/or starts jumping around wildly with messages like "psmouse.c: TouchPad at isa0060/serio1/input0 lost synchronization, throwing 1 bytes away" in syslog
* wireless also seems erratic under iwl4965
These are all issues that appeared when upgrading from 7.10 to 8.04 (beta).  leifj at it.su.se / Leif Johansson
* What about wireless adapter with ralink chipset? I hope that they will works out of box... 
