{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
On August 29th, 2007, Jono Bacon announced our next release, version 8.04, codenamed the Hardy Heron, on the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2007-August/000336.html|Ubuntu Developer Announce mailing list]]</nowiki>.

The focus for 8.04 for the Kubuntu community will be stability. Following the stability portion of our goals, the Kubuntu developers plan on implementing a new strategy which will allow Kubuntu to catch-up with some of the functionality of Ubuntu. The default KDE will be version 3.5.x. No worries for those of you waiting for Kubuntu and KDE 4, packages are available and have already released a <nowiki>[[http://kubuntu.org/~jriddell/cds/kubuntu-kde4-20071126.iso|LiveCD]]</nowiki> based on Kubuntu 7.10, the Gutsy Gibbon.

Alpha 1, the first in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Hardy development cycle, represents the very latest snapshots of Hardy. The pre-release images are known to be reasonably free of CD-build or installer bugs, however they are not recommended for use in stable environments. These releases will be for those who are developing, documenting, and testing. Alpha releases can be downloaded from the following URL:
* http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/hardy/

'''NOTE:''' ''This is an alpha (pre-) release. Pre-release versions of Hardy are '''__NOT__''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or for anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent, breakage. Pre-release versions of Hardy '''__ARE__''' recommended for Kubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.''

Screenshots will be available at: http://www.thecodingstudio.com/opensource/linux/?q=node/55

== New or Improved In Alpha 1 ==
Hardy Heron Alpha 1 CD release brings with it many updated, new, and exciting applications. For this latest release of Kubuntu 8.04, the usability standards have improved and there have already been some aesthetic changes. Besides these changes, there have been updates to many common applications as well as bug fixes to some of those annoyances you may or may not have run into. With every new pre-release, updates will be documented allowing you to thoroughly test your Kubuntu 8.04 installation. Remember that all of these features are part of a pre-release version of Kubuntu, and may still have issues. We ask that any problems you come across that you file a bug, if one has yet to be filed for your problem.<<BR>>
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug

=== Kvkbd ===
'''INFO:''' http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php/Kvkbd?content=56019 <<BR>>
''KMenu -> Utilities -> Kvkbd''

Kvkbd is a virtual keyboard for KDE intended for users with limited accessibility handicaps. This latest version, 0.4.7, includes a new button to popup the dock menu which helps users without right clicking capabilities, and now the user has the ability to store and restore the position of the keyboard on screen.

=== KDE Bluetooth ===
'''INFO:''' http://bluetooth.kmobiletools.org/ <<BR>>

The KDE Bluetooth Framework is a set of tools built on top of Linux' Bluetooth stack BlueZ. The goal of KDE Bluetooth is to provide easy access to the most common Bluetooth profiles and to make data exchange with Bluetooth enabled phones and PDAs as straightforward as possible.

=== Compiz & KDE ===
==== Kicker Compiz ====
'''INFO:''' http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=46021 <<BR>>

Based on the KDE 3.5.4 minipager applet, Kicker Compiz is a modified pager applet for the Kicker to make it work with Compiz better than it has in the past. It is intended to work with window managers that use the concept of large desktops instead of multiple virtual desktops as KWin does.

==== Kicker Taskbar Compiz ====
'''INFO:''' http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=49484 <<BR>>

Kicker Taskbar Compiz is a modified taskbar for the Kicker that works better than the current default in Compiz.

=== KNetworkManager ===
'''INFO:''' http://en.opensuse.org/Projects/KNetworkManager <<BR>>
''KMenu -> Internet -> KNetworkManager''

KNetworkManager is the KDE front end for NetworkManager. It provides a sophisticated and intuitive user interface which enables users easily to switch their network environment. The latest updates for KNetworkManager in Kubuntu 8.04 include added support for PPP and KPPP and also the support for PPTP has been enabled.

=== Kopete OTR Plugin ===
'''INFO:''' http://kopete-otr.follefuder.org/ <<BR>>

The OTR plugin for Kopete enables the use of Off The Record encryption for the instant messanger. Using the Kopete OTR plugin, you can encrypt chat sessions to other users with IM clients support the OTR encryption method.

=== KTorrent ===
'''INFO:''' http://ktorrent.org/ <<BR>>
''KMenu -> Internet -> KTorrent''

KTorrent is the BitTorrent client for KDE. Kubuntu Hardy Heron now includes the latest release, version 2.2.4. Updates to 2.2.4 include the following:
* Improved and more consistant GUI
* Possibility to open as many views as needed. By default you now get a downloads and uploads tab
* Improved search plugin with the possibility to open multiple search tabs
* Option to move finished downloads to a different directory
* much more...

=== Kaffeine Codec Auto Installation ===
Codecs (currently libxine1-ffmpeg) will now automatically be installed when opening a file for the first time in Kaffeine. Future implementations will include the automatic installation of the DVD codecs which will allow you to play DVDs with your Kubuntu system.

=== NTFS Support ===
NTFS read and write support is now enabled by default with Kubuntu 8.04.

=== LUKS Support ===
KIO Media now comes with support for decrypting and mounting encrypted <nowiki>[[http://luks.endorphin.org/|LUKS]]</nowiki> devices.

== Feedback ==
We want to hear what you think about the current release of Kubuntu 8.04, The Hardy Heron, Alpha 1 CD Release. We want to know if it Rocks, if it is just OK, or it is flat out wrong. No matter the feedback, as long as it is in line with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> we would like to hear it.

So what are you waiting for, head on over to the <nowiki>[[HardyHeron-Alpha1-Kubuntu-Feedback|Feedback Page]]</nowiki> and let us know!
