{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 8.04.2 LTS, the
second maintenance update to Ubuntu's 8.04 LTS release.  This release
includes updated server, desktop, and alternate installation CDs for the
i386 and amd64 architectures.

In all, over 200 updates have been integrated, and updated installation
media has been provided so that fewer updates will need to be downloaded
after installation.  These include security updates, and corrections for
other high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and
compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

To Get Ubuntu 8.04.2 LTS
------------------------

To download Ubuntu 8.04.2 LTS, or obtain CDs, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats and workarounds for known issues.  They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/804

About Ubuntu 8.04.2 LTS
-----------------------

This is the second maintenance release of Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, which
continues to be supported with maintenance updates and security fixes
until April 2011 on desktops and April 2013 on servers.

Over 200 post-release updates have been integrated, and a number of
bugs in the installation system have been corrected.  These include
security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs, with a
focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn for a full list of Ubuntu security updates.
As of 2009-01-20, all updates affecting packages on the CD have been
applied.

A summary of notable updates follows.  See
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug for specific information about a
particular bug number.  A complete list of post-release updates can
also be found at:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseNotes/ChangeSummary/8.04.2

Installer Updates
-----------------

* Create sambashare group and add the initial user to it (#238224)

* Permissions on some system files and directories were set wrong when
   installing from Desktop CDs.  For users tracking the recommended
   hardy-updates repository, this issue has already been corrected
   post-install (#288479)

* Record the partition table as changed when a single partition's file
   system type has changed, fixing bootloader installation failures
   when installing onto existing partitions (#149832)
	
* Fix writing of /var/log/installer/oem-id in OEM mode (#251751)

* Use the correct mirror for -security in the event of
   apt-setup/security_host being preseeded (#306356)

Desktop Updates
---------------

* Fix a race which can lead to a gvfs-fuse-daemon crash when closing
   session (#235698)

* Prompt for restarting session when installing samba to take into
   account sambashare group membership and the need for libpam-smbpass to
   create NTLM password hash (#212098)

* Fix undeletion of menu items with the alacarte menu editor (#225941)

* Stop/start anacron on suspend/resume and on power-cycle (#249220)

* Fix hang on "Loading..." when opening a PDF file (#256048)

* Fix incorrect handling of authentication cases leading to excessive
   gnome-keyring CPU usage (#236171)

* Fix printing to remote ipp:// printers (#258104)

* Don't look for a Trash directory on autofs mounts (#210468)

* Fix GNOME session blow-up when using GUI to join a Windows domain
   (#222224)

* Fix ICQ connections in pidgin (#244591)

Server updates
--------------

* Fix race with mdadm/devmapper while looping for the root filesystem (#244926)

* Revert "TC action parsing bug fix", which broke shorewall and wondershaper
   (#194623)

* Support booting degraded RAID devices (#290885)

General Updates
---------------

* Set hdparm power management to 254 for all hard drives while on AC, and 128
   while on battery (note that suspend/resume still breaks this, and a more
   complete fix will be forthcoming for Ubuntu 8.04.3) (#59695)

* Support CDs with no uncompressed Packages files, only compressed ones,
   enabling upgrade to future releases using CDs (#255545)

* Conflict with old mysql 4.1 packages to ensure smooth upgrades from
   Ubuntu 6.06 (#208695)

* Backport cifs.upcall, to support Kerberos-authenticated CIFS kernel mounts
   (#236830)

* e1000 checksum recheck after reset (#60388)

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of ways
you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu channel on irc.ubuntu.com, on
the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops, and
servers, with a fast and easy install and regular releases.  A
tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications is included, and
an incredible variety of add-on software is just a few clicks away.

Professional technical support is available from Canonical Limited and
hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information about
support, visit http://www.ubuntu.com/support

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our website:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
