{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is a new page and you are welcome to help out. The intent is to describe the level of support available for integrated chipsets.  Elsewhere in HardwareSupport the compatibility of individual hardware components is listed or the degree of support for particular computer models.  This approach results in information fragmentation.  This is because there are often a wide variety of manufacturers and models which build upon a single chipset.  It is proposed that a better way of organizing available information by the lowest common denominator spanning many systems: the integrated chipset.  The goal is to reproduce something like the <nowiki>[[Centrino|http:--en.wikipedia.org-wiki-Centrino]]</nowiki> page on Wikipedia.  

=== Intel ===

==== Mobile Intel GM45 Express Chipset ====
The codename Montevina refers to the fifth-generation Centrino platform, now formally named Centrino 2 to avoid confusion with previous Centrino platforms. 
* <nowiki>[[Intel web page|http:--www.intel.com-products-notebook-chipsets-gm45-gm45-overview.htm]]</nowiki>
* 

=== AMD ===
==== AMD M780G Chipset ====
* 
=== AMD M690 Series Chipset === 
* 

CategoryHardware
