{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

You can choose from alternatives to the PSB drivers, all having different advantages and disadvantages over the others. These drivers are: fbdev, iegd and emgd. Iegd and emgd are not covered yet. 

These settings have been tested on Lucid and Maverick. This will very likely work on older versions of Ubuntu. It does not give you the performance you get with the Poulsbo driver, but the good news is you get the right resolution and can still use sleep and hibernation. 

=== Getting 1366x768 resolution ===

Create file /etc/grub.d/01_915resolution with lines

<pre>
echo insmod 915resolution
echo 915resolution 58 1366 768 32
</pre>

and execute:

<pre>
chmod +x /etc/grub.d/01_915resolution
</pre>

In file /etc/default/grub, assign value 1366x768x32 to variables GRUB_GFXMODE and GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX:

<pre>
GRUB_GFXMODE=1366x768x32
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=1366x768x32
</pre>

Execute:

<pre>
sudo update-grub
</pre>

reboot, now you have 1366x768 resolution.

=== Alternative drivers to PSB ===

==== fbdev driver ====

For slightly better performance, install the fbdev X driver.

Note: first set resolution with steps mentioned above!

Install v86d package, execute:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install v86d
</pre>

Then add this line to /etc/modules

<pre>
uvesafb vbemode=0x011b nocrtc mtrr=2
</pre>

create /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

<pre>
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "dri"
    Load    "GLcore"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Driver    "fbdev"
EndSection
</pre>

If you find video playback is distorted or jumpy, open a terminal window and type gstreamer-properties. In the program window that appears, select the Video tab and, in the Plugin dropdown list beneath Default Output, select X Window System (No Xv).
