{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== This page has been replaced ==
These laptop tests are now out of date, for newer tests see the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki> pages

=== AOpen ===

==== AOpen 1557GLS ====
* NOTE: current information for this laptop is available on <nowiki>[[http://www.geocities.com/ubuntumatthew/aopen1557gls.html|this web page]]</nowiki>.

=== Averatec ===

Averatec laptops information has been moved [HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsAveratec].

=== Chiligreen ===

==== Chiligreen Agilitas M7-470K ====
* Athlon 64, ATI Radeon 9600
* Warty: Xwindows doesn't work
* Hoary Array 3: everythink is working, except Grub Installer hangs, see bug: #6082

=== Compal ===

==== Compal CL-56 (AKA MWave CL-56, XNote Premier Plus, Chembook 2056, etc.) ====
* This is a popular off-brand laptop, and is branded under many names including MWave, XNote, Chembook, Fragbook, and more. For reference, it's normally dark blue with a silver stripe around the keyboard, and has a 15" SXGA screen.
* To install, you need to change the fbcon to mode 770, or the installer will crash.  See the help in the installer loader, it has an example of how to do this.
* Most things work out of the box, except (if you have the internal wifi option), the wifi will be disabled using software lockout.  You must install the acerhk module, and then activate it.  <nowiki>[[http://www.informatik.hu-berlin.de/~tauber/acerhk/|Look here for the module]]</nowiki>.  You will need to install linux-headers to build it.  To activate: <pre>
modprobe acerhk usedritek=1 autowlan=1 force_series=290
echo 1 > /proc/driver/acerhk/wirelessled
</pre> You will probably want to place this in a startup script.
* acerhk is also required if you wish to use the function+volume, mute, and some other laptop special keys.
* ACPI suspend does not appear to work with Warty and linux 2.6.8.  The laptop will suspend, but will not resume.
* PCMCIA is not tested.
* This laptop has a Mobile Radeon 9600 graphics chip.  Use the fglrx ATI drivers if you need 3d acceleration.

=== ECS ===

==== ECS G551 (Combo Drive Model) ====

* Pressing F12 crashes the system.
* Sleep & Hibernate (Disk and RAM) works via CLI.
* Burning of CDs inside Nautilus is supported.
* ATI fglrx configured without any problems (M9).
* Realtek RTL 8180 Mini-PCI Wireless is only possible with Ndiswrapper.
* ICH4 AC97 softmodem not yet configured, but will work most likely.
* Flash drives are detected without any problems.
* Digital Cameras work fine as well.
* Overall, everything works fine if tweaked properly.

=== eMachines ===

Note: the M68xx series includes the 05, 07, 09, 10 and 11 models.  What works on one should work on another.

==== eMachines 6807 ====
* All works.
* For the wireless card to work. Just install the ndiswrapper  from the synaptic package manger.

==== eMachines M2350 ====
* All works except for sound by default.
* For sound, in a mixer, disable all jack sense and external amplifier switches.

=== Gateway ===

==== Gateway Solo 5300 ====

* Sound Works (confirmed)
* Built-in Ethernet works (Xircom something-or-another) (confirmed)
* LCD Display works (confirmed)
* Fonts look good. (confirmed)
* 'X' cursor on by default. Using Option "HWCursor" "false" fixes it. (confirmed)
* Modem Untested
* Battery Meter doesn't work. (confirmed)
* Fn+F4 (Gateway's Standby Hotkey) doesn't do anything. (confirmed)
* Volume hotkeys (Fn+Home [Mute], Fn+PgUp [VolUp], Fn+PgDn [VolDn]) don't work. (confirmed)
* Haven't tried external monitor switching yet. 
* USB does work. (as opposed to previous unconfirmed status)
 
==== Gateway 4024GZ ====
* No sound
* When lid is closed, system cannot be brought out of suspend (hibernate?) without reboot (X or CLI).
** *The system responds to the power button when not in X and powers down gracefully. When in X, the
** *display only shows a blinking cursor and the power button shuts down forcefully. 
* LCD display works
* Modem untested
* USB and hotplug work
* Built-in ethernet works (Realtek)
* No wifi (built-in Broadcom 802.11G) (ndiswrapper?)
* Battery meter works
* Fn+F4 (Gateway's Standby Hotkey) doesn't work. 

==== Gateway 3522GZ ====
Using Dapper:

* Sound works
* Wireless works
* Display works w/native resolution using 915resolution
* Ethernet works
* Volume control dial works
* Card reader doesn't work
* Haven't been successful in getting suspend-to-disk working.
** Doesn't work on Hoary, but '''does''' in Dapper Drake.

=== Mecer ===

==== Mecer N223II ====
* See http://www.durbanet.co.za/colin/mecer-linux/mecer_n223ii_notebook_ubuntu_linux.html

=== Mitac ===

==== Mitac 7521 ====

* Suspend, Modem, IrDA: Untested
* Keyboard buttons: Not working
* Sound, Video, Mouse: Works wonderfully

==== Mitac 8528D =====
* Suspend, Power saving, Fn functions like turn off wireless, turn off screen: doesn't work.
* Some functions like Volume up, volume down works.
* ACPI drivers needed.
* Everything else works fine. Video card, bluetooth, wireless, sound - perfect. Just needed restricted drivers for Wireless and video card.

=== MSI ===

==== MSI MegaBook S270 ====

A sub-notebook, with 512MB RAM, AMD Mobile Sempron 2800+ and ATI Radeon graphics. (Dapper was tested)

* Installation of Kubuntu: Works without problems
* Screen: 1280x800 properly detected. 3D Acceleration works only with the ATI fglrx driver.
* Sound: No Problems.
* Kernel: Works well.
* Lan: Works without problems.
* W-LAN (ipn2220): Works with ndiswrapper. Difficult to configure, nothing for beginners, with the old ndiswrapper version the system sometimes crashed at initialization, however with an up-to-date ndiswrapper this seem not to happen anylonger. It looks like newer models of the laptop were sold with an other (much more Linux friendly) wireless lan card.
* DVD-burner: Reading and writing works
* Card-reader: Does not work, only a slight hope it will work one day.
* PCMCIA: Works after there were some trouble at first.
* Bluetooth, Firewire: working
* Brightness control with special keys: Seems to be controlled directly by the notebook/BIOS, so it works always regardless of the OS. There is a tool around which is able to control the brightness under linux. With the 2.6.19 Kernel there is a special kernel module for controling.
* Cool n Quiet: Fan runs only if needed but sometimes this seems to be not get activated during boot -> fan runs always
* Powernow: powernow-k8: The DSDT is broken you have to fix it manually or you wont be able to change the frequency of your cpu.
* Battery status: Is displayed correctly. However only the newer kernel recognize the battery if you start the laptop without any and connect the battery while the system is running.

Conclusion: With Dapper most work out of the box, except Cool n Quiet. Moreover the wireless-lan is a pain and the cardreader does not work.

=== Panasonic ===

==== Panasonic Let's Note R3 ====
* network, sound, USB2.0 ports, graphics, laptop mode and cpu throttling works fine.
* Synaptics touchpad works and Ubuntu X has support for the circular edge scroll, but you need to activate it manually in XF86Config.
* ACPI works mostly - battery level, temperature and so on is read fine
* You need a separate driver to use brightness, volume and the other controls on the function keys. It can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.netlab.is.tsukuba.ac.jp/~yokota/archive/pcc_acpi-0.8-hy20040929.tar.gz|here]]</nowiki>, and related acpi scripts are <nowiki>[[http://www.netlab.is.tsukuba.ac.jp/~yokota/archive/pcc-acpi-utils-20041013.tar.gz|here]]</nowiki>, though they need to be tweaked a bit to fit Ubuntu.

==== Panasonic Toughbook R1n ====
* network, sound, USB2.0/1.1 ports, graphics, laptop mode and cpu throttling works fine.
* Synaptics touchpad works and Ubuntu X has support for the circular edge scroll, but you need to activate it manually in XF86Config.
* ACPI works mostly - battery level, temperature and so on is read fine
* You need a separate driver to use brightness, volume and the other controls on the function keys. It can be found <nowiki>[[http://www.netlab.is.tsukuba.ac.jp/~yokota/archive/pcc_acpi-0.8-hy20040929.tar.gz|here]]</nowiki>, and related acpi scripts are <nowiki>[[http://www.netlab.is.tsukuba.ac.jp/~yokota/archive/pcc-acpi-utils-20041013.tar.gz|here]]</nowiki>, though they need to be tweaked a bit to fit Ubuntu.
* External monitor output works with a utility called i810switch, available in Universe.
* Suspend to disk works on Hoary (3/16/05).
* Suspend to ram does not work; it never comes back from sleep.
* PCMCIA works.
* Modem, SD card reader untested. Modem is unknown, and indications are that the SD reader will not work.

=== Sager ===

==== Sager NP5690 ====

* Currently running Hoary
* Display, ATI MOBILITY RADEON 9700 128MB DDR, 1400x1050 works
* Ethernet (realtek) works
* USB 2.0 ports, sound, touchpad, all work
* Internal modem not tested
* Hibernate not attempted, does not seem to work out of the box, only tried it quickly
* Battery monitor works
* CPU throttling (powernowd) does not work, this is a P4 w/hyperthreading, not currently supported
* 6-in-one card reader does not work
* Details for this laptop can be found at <nowiki>[[http://www.sagernotebook.com/pages/notebooks/product.cfm?ProductType=5690#5690|the discount laptops page on this model]]</nowiki>.

Notes on installation and compatibility of Ubuntu with laptop computers made by some other companies less known.

=== Sharp ===

==== Sharp Actius MM10 (aka PC-MM1110) ====

An amazing number of things are supported and detected automatically
by Ubuntu (4.10 Warty): audio and video chipsets, X''''''Free''''''86
configuration, Synaptics touchpad, and the built in wireless device
all work just like that. It's great! But with some tweaks we can get
it to work even better:

* Win''''''XP Dual Boot

Not that you would, but if you'd like to keep the existing Win''''''XP
install you're in luck! The factory installed file systems are Fat32
and can be resized with GNU parted. Windows, in its anti-competitive
ways, was continually overwriting my grub-installed MBR. The fix on
<nowiki>[[http://geocities.com/epark/linux/grub-w2k-HOWTO.html|this page]]</nowiki>
helps.

* Touch Pad Sensitivity

The default settings were a bit too hectic for me. Add these values to
the synaptics Input''''''Device section in <code>/etc/X11/XF86Config-4</code>
<pre>
        Option  "MinSpeed"    "0.05"
        Option  "MaxSpeed"    "0.20"
        Option  "AccelFactor" "0.0002"
</pre>

* Suspend to RAM / Hard Disk

Both can be made to work. I basically followed the excellent
instructions for ACPI in the SuspendHowto. Suspending to memory 
(sleep) is easy: do what's in the howto, but in addition you need to
<code>rmmod</code> the <code>orinoco_pci</code> and <code>orinoco</code> modules first
thing in your suspend script (maybe there are better drivers for the
prism 2.5 chipset out there? orinoco won't let you scan for access
points etc).

I have the problem that the screen won't turn off, but go an
unhealthy bright white instead. My workaround is to <code>sleep</code> a few
seconds so I can turn off the screen manually with Fn-F11 before it
suspends ;)

Suspend to disk (hibernate) is way cooler of course. SuspendHowto
has all the information. You need to re-compile the kernel, but
''don't'' need to get any patches. Add the same orinico lines to your
<code>hibernate.sh</code> script.

* More Info

<nowiki>[[http://web.mit.edu/jjl/www/mm10/|This person's page]]</nowiki> has more technical information.

==== Sharp Actius MP30 ====

* The Hoary Hedgehog 5.04 release works well. I had to add a GRUB kernel option of i8042.nomux in /boot/grub/menu.lst to get the touch pad to work, but I was able to plug in and use a USB mouse right away.

* I have not been able to get the built-in wireless to work yet, but a guy named Carl got it to work here: http://www.cameltail.com/projects/sharp/, so I'm still hopeful. He was using Slackware 10.0 and the madwifi driver.

* Power management is a little weird, but I haven't tried tweaking it yet. The fan still comes on just like normal when the screen is closed and the processor should be idle.

* I have not tested the modem or the display adapter yet.

* The play-a-DVD-without-booting feature works fine.
UPDATE: The DVD-playing-without-booting feature got hosed somewhere. I installed the Hoary preview, and it still worked afterwards. Then I installed SuSE 9.1 and Hoary 5.04, and it doesn't work any more (which is actually fine with me).

More info at http://pingswept.org/index.php?p=57

=== Targa ===

==== Targa Visionary 811 2800+ (aka Lidl-laptop) ====

The only thing in current breezy (2005-08-13) is the modem (sl-modem does not exist on amd64)
and that suspend-to-ram doesn't seem to wake up again.

I haven't tried fglrx since hoary sometime. Just ask me and I will do try again.

ChristianBjälevik

==== Targa Traveller 826T MT32 (also a Lidl laptop) ====

This is a Turion64 system with some ATI chipset.

* HHD controlelr not recognised in hoary (with no DMA used as a result), works okay in breezy
* wireless works with ndiswrapper
* touchpad works (seems to emulate a mouse?), but no way to configure it...
* clock running too fast problem, fix: http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showpost.php?p=285480&postcount=9
* ATI Radeon Mobility X700 works in hoary (ati & fglrx) & breezy (ati driver, will test binary driver soon)
* audio works only with headphones (why don't the build-in speakers work under ubuntu?)
* powernow2 doesn't work...  :-(

More info when I can try or fix things.

=== Twinhead ===

Notebook Twinhead D212A
* AMD XP 1500+LV
* 640 MB RAM
* Chipset VIA
* Video VIAS3 Prosavage 32MB 
* USB 2.0
* DVD/CD RW Matsuchita

Ubuntu version tested: 5.10 Live CD
The installation was smooth, and incredibly fast, The installer recognised every device also some external devices such as Hard drives (USB Maxtor 250 GB) a PC card reader (7 in 1 from Bytestor) an external sound card (from Trust) an external USB Keyboard.
I had a fully functional LINUX system in less than 10 minutes..
The Network detection wa also immediate and trouble free, after the installation I just needed to enter the IP address, the DNS server and the Network submask... and ready to surf the web.

The dual boot is still pending however I will do it in a near future.

UPDATE 14/Mar/06

I managed to configure a dual boot using this Laptop but running Ubuntu from my external hard drive (Maxtor 250 GB) and Win XP from the internal HD, although not as straight-forward, the installation was succefull, again every single device in my laptop was recognised immediately. Hey UBUNTU is simply great... it runs so smoothly, it is quite fast, I could notice a significant increment in performance compared with WinXP

se DaBruGo posting on http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811

I hope this helps

DerJames

=== Uniwill ===

==== Uniwill N244II0 (LAC LUCGM Centrino) ====

Almost Everything Just Works with the Warty installer.  It's rock solid.  X.org from Hoary gets DRI working, and OpenGL is working well enough.

The Smartlink modem (AC'97) requires the 'sl-modem-daemon' and the 'sl-modem-modules' built to match the kernel.  This modem does not work with the intel8x0m ALSA driver, only with the slamr module.  After building and installing that module, it dials out just fine.  My laptop has an Atheros based Wifi card in it (optional equipment) that works great with the Madwifi drivers.  The built in ethernet card is well supported by the e100 driver and works flawlessly.

With a little effort, suspend to disk works too, using a kernel patched with the Software Suspend patches from http://softwaresuspend.berlios.de/ and the associated 'hibernate' script.

ACPI S3 suspend to RAM does not work at this time, in Linux 2.6.9.  I don't know for certain if it's a BIOS problem or a Linux ACPI problem, though I suspect the latter.  The screen remains dark after attempting to resume, and I suspect that what's wrong is that the video board hardware state is not getting restored.

This particular laptop came with a 1400x1050 built-in LCD, even though Uniwill only mentions it as a 1024x768 display.  (Not all N244II0 laptops have the larger screen.)  The VBIOS does not have a mode defined for the higher resolution, so out of the box, X will not run higher than 1024x768.  I found a program called '822resolution' (http://perso.wanadoo.fr/apoirier/) that allows me to modify the VBIOS tables, adding a new mode.  In order for this to work in concert with software suspend, it must be done from an initrd, so the new mode is in the BIOS when X comes back to life.  Scripts that set this up, to be placed in /etc/mkinitrd/scripts, can be found at http://www.laclinux.com/~karlheg/.  The display is kind of fuzzy at 1024x768, but at its full 1400x1050 native resolution, it's crisp.

The synaptics touchpad works fine, though I prefer to carry a USB mouse.  Hotplugging USB devices (USB v1.1 and v2.0) works great, no issues whatsoever, no special boot options required.

There are a few flaws in this laptop model that I should mention.  With older versions of the BIOS, polling the battery status via ACPI too often would cause keyboard and pointer interrupts to get dropped.  That made the pointer jump around randomly and it would even push GUI buttons sometimes.  A BIOS upgrade swats the bug; a workaround is to not poll the battery state very often -- shut off the Gnome panel battery applet.  The other flaw is that when there is a full 1Gb of RAM installed, and Linux is compiled with highmem support, the machine moves at a snails pace.  Without highmem support, you cannot access all of the RAM.  The workaround is to add "mem=1008M" to the kernel boot command line, to get almost all of the RAM available.  More than that makes it slow way down.  (Anyone know why?  Please explain it to me! (KarlHegbloom)) 

From KeithBachman Fri Apr 29 04:34:41 +0100 2005
From: Keith Bachman
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2005 04:34:41 +0100
Subject: eMachines M6807 architecture used?
Message-ID: <20050429043441+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

What architecture did you use when testing your M6807?  i386, or amd64?

I'll be putting it on this weekend, if I hit any snags I'll post them here.  I have an M6805.  The entire series (only difference in models is CPU speed, amount of RAM, HD capacity, and a DVD/CD-RW or a DVD burner) has the same motherboard, but has some tweaks.  I'll work on writing it up for later addition to that section.

=== Zepto ===

==== Zepto Znote 6615WD ====

CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo T7600

GPU: Geforce Go 7600

RAM: 2GiB

HDD: 80GB, 5400rpm

Tested Ubuntu: Edgy Eft(6.10), amd64

The Installation worked directly, but I had to make some configurations, to get everything working as it should do, see <nowiki>[[http://xhochy.org/blog/2006/10/28/ubuntu-610-auf-zepto-6615wd/|Ubuntu 6.10 auf Zepto 6615WD]]</nowiki>.
The buttons on the right side of the laptop for the volume worked with ubuntu out-of-the-box where they are still not working under windows(dirvers installed and buttons configured)

After some time I even have managed to get Beryl working <nowiki>[[http://xhochy.org/en/2007/01/04/howto-beryl-014-in-ubuntu-edgy610/|Howto]]</nowiki>

Some Magazines say, that integrated Cardreaders don't work under Linux, but mine did <nowiki>[[http://xhochy.org/en/2007/01/04/texas-instruments-laptop-cardreader-on-ubuntu/|Texas Instruments Laptop cardreader on ubuntu]]</nowiki>

Everything is working fine with the laptop except the webcam, where I haven't even tried yet to get it working.

CategoryLaptop
