{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== This page has been replaced ==
These laptop tests are now out of date, for newer tests see the <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam|Laptop Testing Team]]</nowiki> pages

Notes on installation and compatibility of Ubuntu with Packard Bell laptop computers.

== Summary ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">'''Make'''
| '''Model'''
| '''Installs ?'''
| '''Not working'''
| '''Ubuntu Release'''
| '''Comments'''
| '''Last Updated'''
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote J2830
| Yes
| Sound does not work
| v6.06 (Dapper) & v6.10 (Edgy)
| In process, see https://launchpad.net/bugs/75528
| 2006-Dec-10
|-
| Packard Bell
| EasyNote R1100
| Yes
| 
| v6.10 (Dapper)
| Boot: '''vga=771 pnpbios=off acpi=force'''; ath wireless antenna switch via <nowiki>[[http://rfswitch.sourceforge.net/|rfswitch]]</nowiki>; more info: <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam/PackardBellR1100]]</nowiki>
| 2006-Sep-12
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote R3400
| No
| 
| v6.06 (Dapper)
| Needs to be installed via Breezy CD then an upgrade to dapper. Due to an 8254 timer issue on the IO-APIC you'll need a custom boot parameter to boot dapper: '''noapic nolapic acpi=off'''. cpu is AMD Mobile Sempron 3000+ 1.8Ghz
| 2006-Sep-01
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote R3400
| Yes
| All features in testing.
| v6.10 (Edgy)
| Boots without customizations. All other features seem to be working properly. cpu is AMD Mobile Sempron 3000+ 1.8Ghz
| 2006-Sep-01
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote R3450
| Yes
| 
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Needs boot parameter: '''vga=771 noapic''', otherwise doesn't boot. Modem untested. cpu is  AMD Mobile Turion 64 model ML-30 - 1.6 GHz
| 2006-Aug-07
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote R3280
| Yes
| In process
| v5.10 (Breezy)
| Needs boot parameter: '''vga=771 noapic''', otherwise doesn't boot. cpu is  AMD Mobile Turion 64 model ML-28 - 1.6 GHz
| 2006-Feb-08
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote 3300
| Yes
| 
| (Warty)
| Needs nolapic boot parameter, otherwise doesn't boot. Modem untested. Additional info: chipset is sis740, cpu is AMD XP-M 2600+
| 
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote A series
| Yes
| Centrino Wireless
| 
| Only issue so far is the Centrino Wireless: hardware shows up fine but HWaddr is 00:00:00:00:00:00, hence I can't set it in my router's MAC filtering.
| 
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote M5262
| Yes
| 
| 
| Details below.
| 2005-Dec-21
|-
| Packard Bell
| Easynote A5560
| Yes
| Resume with ndiswrapper.
| v5.04 (Hoary)
| Celeron M. Linksys wireless. Details below.
| 2005-Aug-18
|}

== Details ==

==== Packard Bell Easynote R3400 ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#cccccc">'''Type'''
| '''Info'''
| '''Breezy'''
| '''Dapper'''
| '''Edgy'''
|-
| CPU
| Mobile AMD Sempron(tm) Processor 3000+ - 1.8 GHz
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| RAM
| 512MB SO-DIMM (standard store configuration)
| -
| -
| -
|-
| HDD
| 60GB HGST (Hitachi/IBM) IC25N060ATMR04
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Optical
| DVD±RW DL NEC ND6500A 8x ±SlimWriter Slimline
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Display
| Wide screen TFT 15,4" WXGA: 1280x800
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Video
| ATI Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Ethernet
| ALi Corporation M5263 - 100BASE-TX/10Base-T Fast Ethernet MAC
| No<nowiki>[[#breezynic|*]]</nowiki>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Wifi
| RaLink RT2500 802.11g Cardbus/mini-PCI (Billionton)
| untested
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Firewire
| Texas Instruments PCI4510 IEEE-1394 Controller
| untested
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Modem
| Smart Link 56K Modem (Billionton MDC56S-I)
| untested
| Yes
| No<nowiki>[[#edgymodem|*]]</nowiki>
|-
| Audio
| ALi Corporation M5455 PCI AC-Link Controller Audio Device
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Master card kernel
| ATI Technologies Inc RS480 Host/PCI Bridge
| Yes
| '''acpi=off noapic nolapic'''<nowiki>[[#dapper8254|*]]</nowiki>
| Yes
|-
| USB
| ALi Corporation USB 1.1 Controller (rev 03)
| Yes
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| USB
| ALi Corporation USB 2.0 Controller (rev 01)
| Yes
| NO!<nowiki>[[#dapperusb2|*]]</nowiki>
| Yes
|}
 
'''Breezy notes'''
* Breezy will by default detect the wrong tulip module as the network card module. remove this module ''rmmod tulip''download the uli526x module from http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83710&page=2 (second post on second page). Follow the details in the post to get the module unpacked and installed properly.

'''Dapper notes'''
* Dapper Livecd will only boot with the boot parameters '''noapic nolapic acpi=off'''
* Dapper Livecd Installation crashes during finalizing installation stage prior to configuring grub leaving a unusable system.
* Plugging in USB devices will "freeze" the system. Unplug usb device and the system will become available again after 30 seconds. ''Advice'': blacklist the echi-hcd module. This is the usb2 module which causes all the trouble. USB1.1 is the only way to go if you're set on using Dapper.
* Dapper kernel 2.6.15-(all versions) have issues with the ATI chipsets. Kernel will say "8254 timer not connected on IO-APIC". This is a known kernel issue for the 2.6.15 range. It's fixed in 2.6.16 (requires manual building) and 2.6.17 (Ubuntu Edgy). '''workarround:''' boot with boot parameters '''noapic nolapic acpi=off'''.
* Installation advise: Install Breezy and upgrade to Dapper, it's the only way to get it working. 

'''Edgy notes'''
* 2006-09-02 sl-modem-source does not compile against current 2.6.17-6-k7 kernelsource.
   Edgy is still under construction, so it might change before it's final release.

==== Packard Bell Easynote R3450 ====
* Installation boot only with the parameter '''vga=771 noapic'''
* Installation: 1280x800 resolution needs to be set manually in xorg.conf

==== Packard Bell Easynote R3280 ====
* Installation boot only with the parameter '''vga=771 noapic'''
* Installation: Only automatic network configuration failed
* Others: in process

==== Packard Bell Easynote M5262 ====
* Generally a smooth install and good user experience: ethernet connection, DVD drive, etc, all good
* Touchpad and USB mouse work fine in tandem
* Not yet got built in card reader working
* Problems linking external monitor (but also in WinXP)
* Problems linking digital camera (Fuji Finepix 1400) but may be camera issue
* After booting, X sometimes displays a blank white screen and needs to be restarted with Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to access GDM

==== Packard Bell Easynote A5560 ====
* Smooth installation, manual partition to keep recovery parition.
* Kept recovery partition so my sister can go back to Windows, should she want to. (Brand new laptop - didn't let her even try Windows.)
* Wireless Linksys card "INPROCOMM IPN 2220" not working. Fixed with ndiswrapper:
** $ sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper
** $ wget ftp://ftp.support.acer-euro.com/notebook/TravelMate_4000_4500/driver/a802.zip
** $ unzip a802.zip
** $ sudo ndiswrapper -i A802/Winxp/neti2220.inf
** $ sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
** $ rm -rf A802 a802.zip
* WXGA not detected automatically. Fixed with 855resolution:
** Download and install Debian package from: http://www.debian.or.jp/~kmuto/855resolution/
** $ sudo vi /etc/default/855resolution
** MODE=3c
** XRESO=1280
** YRESO=768
** $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
** $ sudo /etc/init.d/855resolution start
** $ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
* Wireless not working after resume from hibernate, computer hangs if I try to enable it.
* Haven't testet DVD burning and card reader yet.

----
CategoryLaptop
