{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hardened Debian needs for implantation of a hardened toolchain
in Ubuntu Linux.

=== Machines and technical resources: ===
Architectures: x86_64, ia64, ppc, sparc, alpha

x86 is probed, others might be as well but still can not
ensure perfect results.
The machines should can rebuild a toolchain in a reasonable
small amount of time.
To achieve that, SCSI or SATA disks and RAID provide the
best and minimal access time for the data stored in the
machines, which could be huge (chroots for each development, etc).
The rest relies in RAM and other specs that don't need to
be really huge.

Also, it's intended to use UML in special cases, so
the machine specs are critically important.

SMP: SMP powered machine would be needed for
testing of impact in SMP environments.

=== Human resources: ===

A team of people interested and with minimal experience
in software security terms, with motivation and good
capabilities.

Toolchain developers and kernel hackers would be the main
target, as well, packagers and experienced developers of 
the Debian development tools will be needed.

Experienced developers with C are a key for the success, 
and also someone with knowledge in statistical studies could
help a lot by providing performance studies with minimal error
possibilities, thast could affect the final decision of deploying
these security technologies.
