{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then use the @``SIG@ at the end of your line, look at the first post for reference'''
* '''All serious issues should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== WARNING ==
* Post known issues here

== Feedback ==
* Well when upgrading from an earlier Hardy installation it doesn't load the kde4 desktop or anything --> there might be problem when upgrading from gutsy! (last time there were massive problems so this might be an early indicator). Even from the downloaded "clean" alpha installation cd KDE4 wasn't initialized... weird. -- ANDREA
** This is the expected behaviour, upgrading from Gutsy *won't* install KDE4 unless you explicitly install it with adept/apt :). KDE4 will only come by default on new installations from CDs. --RainCT
** Thank you RainCT for the Feedback :-) But shouldn't alpha 3 then load kde4? i've manually installed it by now and just have to say awesome job really great! too bad it wasn't included automatically :-) -- ANDREA

* I too just d/l'd hardy alpha3 (clean, not an upgrade) and was surprised to NOT see KDE4.  Due to the fact that it was really the only thing listed in this release, I would have assumed it to be the default...   --RUSS 

* Guys - Loaded up Kubuntu 8.04, Added the KDE4 desktop and - Wow - Great job!! I am currently checking how the tools I use work with it, but you have done an amazing Job. Fast, pretty stable (i was actually surprised at how stable - thought there would be a lot more bugs at this early stage) and looks fantastic. Big thumbs up - I am considering making the change back to Kde if it this polished. Well Done!!

* I just run the alpha3 live cd, and I was disappointed to see that compiz integration is not there, nor is the automatic printer installation. Both of these features were highly touted as part of Ubuntu 7.10. It makes me wonder what is the direction this release is headed towards. This quote is from the alpha3 introduction section in the wiki: " ... implementing a new strategy which will allow Kubuntu to catch-up with some of the functionality of Ubuntu". What functionality are you refering to? Are you planing to just catch-up with Ubuntu 7.10 functionality that was missing from Kubuntu 7.10, or are you planning to catch-up all the way and have the same new functionality that Ubuntu 8.04 will have? -- JonathanAmir 
* I'm glad that Hardy will still have KDE 3, it is very mature and still doing its job. I'm an enthusiastic about everything new! I'll go to KDE 4 as soon as I can. But a normal user just wants something that works, looking nice plays a major role still, but if it just doesn't fully work it's useless... And I find that KDE 4 scheduled with Hardy, even if it is stable, but it is just not ready. What I want from 8.10 is a seamless Kubuntu experience. That all the default applications are ported to QT4, everything looks ready and unified. That is hardly going to happen due Hardy. Hardy just needs to focus on catching up Ubuntu (yes, it is in the blueprints, could state it essential!) and working those bugs out. -- ToniHelenius 
* I was really skeptic about how ready KDE 4.0.0 was to be released. But I have to admit it is usable. And it is so nice that even the limitations and the bugs, I am using it as desktop permanently since I installed it. My big, great, huge congratulations, this is the direction I think KDE and Kubuntu should be going. All my thanks to all who were and are involved in making KDE 4. I am really enjoying using it. And of course I want more. I am looking forward to the bug fixes, and more tool adaptation to KDE 4, and also to Kubuntu 8.04. How about Kaffeine? It works well, but for example the Recent Files Menu is not displayed correctly. It cannot be replaced by the tiny Dragon Player.I recognize the huge effort made in KDE 4.0.0 but I hope this is only the beginning.

* Good news and bad news.  The good news is that Hardy alpha 3 installed cleanly on my IBM T20, so it looks like the Savage driver problem has gone away (Gutsy won't boot at all from the standard Kubuntu disk; Feisty only in vesa mode, and then it messes up the screen resolution).  The bad news is that I got  "The process for the media protocol died unexpectedly".  Googling for this suggests that either it's a KDE 3.4 bug, or that I don't have enough memory (384Mb).  The error doesn't happen once I boot from the hard drive. -- AllenMcintosh 
* Add feedback here 
