{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Howto Install the Lexmark Z810 Series printer driver ==

Ubuntu has no built-in driver for Lexmark Z810 Series (Z815 / Z816) printers. This howto explains all necessary steps  for installing a proper driver, the GNU-licensed CUPSZ810 by R. Cerqueira. On <nowiki>[[http://cerqueira.org/software/z810/|the official homepage for the driver]]</nowiki> you can always find the latest version of the sourcecode and some general FAQ for various distributions.

This howto was written for Version 0.7.1, and might not work for other versions. 

'''After installing libstdc++5, the driver compiles perfectly on Xubuntu 11.04 (Natty Narwhal) without errors.'''

=== Preparation ===

It is always a good idea to create a new directory for operations like this. Do it e.g. with <code>mkdir ~/z810</code>.

Download the latest version of the driver package from <nowiki>[[http://cerqueira.org/software/z810/|the official homepage]]</nowiki>. Currently this is v0.7.1, so the file is called <nowiki>[[http://cerqueira.org/software/z810/Z810CUPS-0.7.1.tar.gz|Z810CUPS-0.7.1.tar.gz]]</nowiki>. 

Although the driver is open sourced, it relies heavily on a closed source library released by Lexmark. Download the library <nowiki>[[http://www.lexmark.com/US/cms/pages/licence_agreement.html?download=http://www.downloaddelivery.com/webcontent/support/linux/z810llpddk-2.0-3.i386.rpm|directly from Lexmark]]</nowiki>, after accepting the License Agreement. It should be called <code>z810llpddk-2.0-3.i386.rpm</code>.

Finally, make sure you have installed all necessary packages. If <code>ubuntu-desktop</code> wasn't installed you probably need additional packages, especially the cups printing system.

Open a terminal and input the following line:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install alien build-essential libcupsys2-dev libcupsimage2-dev libstdc++5
</pre>

=== Installation ===

First, install the Lexmark library. As it is delivered in WikiPedia:RPM package format, convert it into a <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deb_%28file_format%29|DEB]]</nowiki> using alien. Then install it via <code>dpkg</code>.

<pre>
sudo alien -c z810llpddk-2.0-3.i386.rpm
sudo dpkg -i z810llpddk_2.0-4_i386.deb
</pre>

Now, extract, compile and install the cups driver:

<pre>
tar -zxvf Z810CUPS-0.7.1.tar.gz
cd Z810CUPS-0.7.1
sudo make rpm-compat
sudo make
sudo make install
</pre>

Now configure your printer using the cups <code>lpadmin</code> command:
<pre>
sudo lpadmin -p Z810 -E -P Lexmark-Z810-lxz810cje-cups.ppd.gz -v usb://Lexmark/810%20Series 
</pre>
You can check the location of you printer using: <code>lpinfo -v</code>

----
CategoryHardware
