{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* straightXedge
* user:  seth
* pwd:  Cupertino, CA 
* ls | grep skillz:  Video Editor / Graphic Artist.  Amateur Sound Engineer.  *nix.
* ls | grep work:  QA Engineer
* ...and trying to learn C++ & Python & stuff...

So...I just got finished a very long and arduous change of jobs and moving house.  And now I'm finally getting back to the stuff thats important to me, most notably being involved with Linux!

==== My Computers ====

I have an ever-rotating collection of computers...currently they include:

BrandX PC tower / 1.5ghz
1 GB RAM
200 GB HD
* Ubuntu 7.10

Powerbook G4 / 1.6ghz
1.5gb RAM
80gb Hard Drive
* Debian 4

Sony Vaio N250N laptop / 1.73 Intel Core Duo Centrino System
1 GB RAM
120 HD Partitioned 2-ways
* Fedora 9 + KDE 4.0
* Slackware 12

Nokia N800
* Maemo OS2008 (well, Debian)

MacBook Pro
* Slackware 12.1

eeePC
* Mandreeeva 2008.1

and so on...

==== Stuff I know a little something about ====

* Forcibly installing Linux on computers, configuring X environments that work, a bit about wrangling wireless cards
* Sound engineering
* VirtualBox, Parallels, stuff like that
* Firmware, Intels' EFI shell, boot ROMs, etc.

==== Stuff I know everything about ====
* Video editing
* Video compression
* Motion photography
* Graphic design

==== Stuff I want to learn more about ====
* Server stuff
* Programming
* Esperanto

==== Kontact ====

* harkonen on irc.freenode.net
** #ubuntu-california
 
* <nowiki>[[mailto:harkonen@inbox.com|Email]]</nowiki> - must have the word "ubuntu" or "Linux" in the subject line or it will never get to me

----
CategoryHomepage
