{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===

I am relatively new to Linux in general. My first computer once was my dad's, it was a Pentium MMX from the mid 90s, it ran Windows 95 and when compared to my dad's newer computer that he got in 2002 running windows XP the Pentium MMX looked slow. It lasted to 2005-2006 then the 8 GB hard drive gave up. I read somewhere that sticking a hard drive in a freezer for a hour or so would help the clicking that it made. That was my first try at fixing computers.

After that I used my Dad's computer for a time. Then in 2007 A public library about 45 minutes away from our house was having a book sale. My Mom took my brother, sister, and I to the book sale. I looked around and didn't see anything I wanted until I went into the freebie room and saw a book entitled "Upgrading and Repairing PCs" it was from 2001 and the only hardware I knew about was from the Pentium to the P4 so I took it home. It was a Windows book and I leaned how to assemble a computer and do some trouble shooting. It also happened that my aunt upgraded her computer and gave her old one to our family to take apart and see how it worked. I didn't have a hard drive so I didn't get far and I fried it in the end but it was fun while it lasted.

Then our town started a program called E-Waste, it is at the local recycling center where people bring older electronics (computers) and they get recycled. It was my cousin who got me started in Ubuntu in the first place and I didn't pass this by, We started picking up the old hardware and playing with it. By now my cousin "Josh" has shown me Ubuntu, It was 'sudo make install' at first sight. I loved it. it was late March of 2009 by now and I was on 8.10 Intrepid Ibex I had a few problems with it but not show stoppers. Then 9.04 came out and I had fun with it, some of the problems in 8.10 went away and this was the version that I decided to try to go open source and get off windows XP. This all happened on a computer that I got for free and I got it working with XP on Dec. 25 2008 at about 11:30, Linux was added later and it has been working ever since.

I now have my own <nowiki>[[http://kylenet.dyndns.org|server]]</nowiki> and it runs my IRC client (irssi) very well. I ssh into it to use screen and irssi so if one computer crashes I can move to another one. I plan to setup a Mythtv, any one of the following: LinHES, Mythbuntu, or Mythdora. The first two being the most likely to be used by me. NOTE: Just as a tidbit of info I am 13 as of 2010 and I have done all this.

=== Accounts dealing with Ubuntu ===

IRC: harrisonk if I am there and harrisonk_away when I am not.

Forums: harrisonk

Launchpad: Harrison

=== User contributions ===

==== Forums ====

I haven't been as active as I was in the forums as I am using IRC more. I do occasionally browse around and help the average Joe with things.

==== IRC ====

I have just recently gotten into IRC. It is fun to chat with people from around the world in real time, everybody helping each other. I help as much as I can but I can't help everybody. :-(

=== Hopes for the future ===

I hope to become a member. I see members as people who have done well in growing Linux, Ubuntu specifically. If and when I become one I will then know that I did something to advance Ubuntu in some way.

=== Testimonials ===

Anyone that can prove what I am saying say so here please!
