{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

----

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Harvest is currently offline. If there is desire to run it again, it needs a discussion with IS.'''
|}

----

To release <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/harvest|Harvest]]</nowiki>, you need to follow the following steps:

# make sure there are no <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/harvest/+activereviews|important merge proposals]]</nowiki> outstanding
# update the translations template (`./manage.py update-template`), commit the change and push it to trunk
# wait until you get a confirmation mail from LP
# download the <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/harvest/trunk/+export|latest translations]]</nowiki>
# pull the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/harvest/trunk|newest trunk]]</nowiki> (lp:harvest)
# integrate the newest translations (`./manage.py import-translations ~/launchpad-export.tar.gz`) 
# `./manage.py compilemessages`
# test the release
# commit the translations, push to lp:harvest
# find out current milestone from https://launchpad.net/harvest/+series
# `./manage.py release <release number> beta`
# commit, push to lp:harvest
# check out `lp:~harvest-dev/harvest/production`
# merge trunk release into `lp:~harvest-dev/harvest/production`, push
# send mail to `rt at ubuntu dot com` with this or similar content: <pre>
Hello everybody,

could you please go and update harvest.ubuntu.com from
lp:~harvest-dev/harvest/production? Here's the steps that are involved:

on guanabana.canonical.com
 - cd /srv/harvest.ubuntu.com
 - bzr pull lp:~harvest-dev/harvest/production
 - cd harvest/
 - ./manage.py compilemessages
 - (reload apache)

Thanks a lot in advance.
</pre> - '''Please make sure additional dependencies, additional steps, etc. need to be document carefully in there.'''
# Hang out in `#canonical-sysadmin` if the request should take longer.
# Create new milestone in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/harvest/0.2.x|current series]]</nowiki>.
# Once landed, make sure it all works.
# Close all bugs of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/harvest/+series|active milestone]]</nowiki>.
# Mark current milestone as released.
