{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== HeBuntu Project : An Israeli Localized and hebrew optimized Ubuntu derived distribution ==

In order to reach the hearts of the greater audience of computer users in Israel (including organizations, firms and the government) a derived distribution could be started , that would incorporate Ubuntu guidelines for usability and accessibility as well as providing some localized added value through a list of goals.

=== HeBuntu Goals ===

*** Should follow a complete and coherent hebrew speaking install process.
*** Hebrew display and input ready, out_of_the_box.
*** Capable of establishing net connections, with all the major Israeli ISP out_of_the_box.
*** Provide a complete Hebrew desktop publishing system - out_of_the_box.
*** Be attractive to schools and educational institutions, possibly through the localization of <nowiki>[[http://www.schooltool.org/|SchoolTool]]</nowiki>
*** Provide an easy to use, free and stable academic computing platform.

=== Action Items ===

*** Wait until the zero effort derivative distribution creationg of ubuntu is mature, due by the hoary release. '''or'''
*** Temporary create a customized install cd of ubuntu partially addressing some of the feature goals:
******* * Preseed the language choices in the bootloader configuration.
******* * Create a package containing needed conffiles for GNOME such that:
********** ** GNOME Keyboard Layout Chooser would already have hebrew input enabled.
********** ** GNOME desktop would use the Hebrew locale and present Hebrew menus.
********** ** Do automatic installationo of necessary fonts packages.

From: Amos Shapira
Date: Mon, 09 May 2005 06:45:51 +0100
Subject: What about "configure ubuntu for Hebrew"?

How about providing whatever is needed to convert an existing, installed, Ubuntu system to support Hebrew? Could be easier to kick-start the effort and should be easy to merge into an installation process of a dedicated distro once this gets going.

Agreed, this should be the way to tackle this since most of the infrastructure and support is there, after a standard install. (SivanGreen)

=== downloads ===

We are currently working for HeBuntu 11.04.

Downloads for this project could be found at http://sourceforge.net/projects/hebuntu.

The project manager: Ohadcn. 
----
CategoryDerivatives
