{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''The most important things I've learned were never taught.''

In legend and lore, a "hedge mage" is someone who has learned magic through experience rather than the formal schooling of "proper" wizards.  I donned this moniker because I've learned most of my coding, system administration, and other geek skills by simply digging in and figuring things out.  That has simply always been my way, doing things myself.

.... Where I'm from

My mother is a public school teacher in a small town near Chicago, Illinois.  My father is a repairman who just has to tinker with everything he comes across.  She taught me to love learning and to love teaching, he taught me to need to know how things work and to need to make them work better.  They both taught me never to wait for someone else to get around to doing what I want done.

I've been using Linux since 1995, and I've been passionate about computer technology in schools since I was in middle school.  In addition to contributing to Edubuntu, I am a founding member of <nowiki>[[http://olympia.fossug.org|Free and Open Source Software Olympia]]</nowiki> in Olympia, Washington, USA, and a network staffer on <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net|freenode]]</nowiki>.  I support F/OSS because I use it, and Edubuntu in particular because my son, and many other young people like him, use it.

.... Where I am

My Launchpad page: https://launchpad.net/people/hedgemage

I'm a member of https://launchpad.net/people/wikiteam and a member/administrator of https://launchpad.net/people/edubuntu-cooks

I'm an almost-constant presence in #Edubuntu on freenode, where I provide support, input, and witty banter. ;)

My recent wiki contributions include:

https://wiki.edubuntu.org/TeacherRecommendedProjects
https://wiki.edubuntu.org/HowToCookEdubuntu/Chapters/StandAloneIntro
https://wiki.edubuntu.org/HowToCookEdubuntu/Chapters/StandAloneHardware
https://wiki.edubuntu.org/HowToCookEdubuntu/Chapters/StandAloneInstallation
https://wiki.edubuntu.org/HowToCookEdubuntu/Chapters/StandAloneWhatNow
https://wiki.edubuntu.org/HowToCookEdubuntu/Chapters/ContributingToEdubuntu
and https://wiki.edubuntu.org/HowToCookEdubuntu/Chapters/Docs

I recently hosted an <nowiki>[[http://olympia.fossug.org/node/15|Edubuntu Dapper release day party]]</nowiki> with eleven attendees, including 5 people I introduced to Edubuntu.  (Pics of the infamous Edubuntu cake coming soon.)

.... Where I'm going

I want to devote most of my attention to Cookbook until it feels finished, after which I will be looking for more packaging/developing/technical tasks.  I am always interested in advocacy and teaching opportunities.  I love introducing new people to Free and Open Source software.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| HedgeMage
|-
| -AT-
|-
| binaryredneck
|-
| -DOT-
|-
| net
|}
----
CategoryHomepage
