{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''I, Heinrich Schuchardt, apply for Ubuntu Contributing Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Heinrich Schuchardt
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~xypron
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HeinrichSchuchardt
|}

I am applying because:

* am contributing to Ubuntu packages on a regular basis as an employee of Canonical

== Who I am ==

I am working as RISC-V lead engineer in Canonical's foundation team since July 2021. In the U-Boot project I am maintainer of the UEFI implementation.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I have been

* using Ubuntu since 2010 on workstations, SoCs, and in Docker
* contributed to Debian packages like flash-kernel, mini-dinstall via patches to Debian since 2016
* contributed to Ubuntu packaging since I was employed by Canonical last year

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Upstream contributions to

* U-Boot
* OpenSBI
* Linux

The following uploads to my PPAs were sponsored:

* squid: fix build failure on RISC-V https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/squid/4.13-10ubuntu3
* opensbi: package new Debian upstream version https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/opensbi/0.9-2~ubuntu0.20.04.1
* opensbi: package new upstream snapshot https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/opensbi/0.9+187.52af6e4b52-0ubuntu1
* opensbi: package new upstream version https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/opensbi/1.0-1
* mokutil: enable building on RISC-V https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mokutil/0.4.0-1ubuntu1
* fftw3: enable building on RISC-V https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fftw3/3.3.8-2ubuntu7
* git: package new Debian version https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/git/1:2.32.0-1ubuntu1
* e2fsprogs: package new Debian upstream https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/e2fsprogs/1.46.3-1ubuntu1, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/e2fsprogs/1.46.3-1ubuntu2
* sbsigntool: fix building on RISC-V via patch to Debian, package new Debian upstream https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sbsigntool/0.9.4-2ubuntu1
* golang-1.16: improve RISC-V support using upstream patches https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/golang-1.16/1.16.7-1ubuntu2
* libguestfs: fix RISC-V issues https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libguestfs/1:1.44.1-1ubuntu6
* ubuntu-report: add RISC-V support https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-report/1.6.5
* heimdal: fix a build failure https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/heimdal/7.7.0+dfsg-2ubuntu2
* a2jmidid: add RISC-V support https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/a2jmidid/9-2ubuntu1
* lintian: fix autopkgtest failure https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lintian/+bug/1950989
* u-boot: raise SiFive Unmatched CPU frequency https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/u-boot/2021.01+dfsg-3ubuntu0~20.04.4
* nezha-boot0: new package with first stage bootloader for Nezha D1 board https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nezha-boot0/1.0.1+11+g70d35f2-0ubuntu1
* bbrun: fix building on RISC-V https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bbrun/1.6-8ubuntu1
* u-boot-nezha: package U-Boot for the Nezha D1 board https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/u-boot-nezha/2021.09+git20211008.62392d3-0ubuntu1
* ktexteditor: fix marking behaviour by adding upstream patch https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ktexteditor/5.90.0-0ubuntu2
* aiocoap: package new upstream version needed for compatibility with Python 3.10 https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/aiocoap/0.4.3-0ubuntu1

Cf. https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Heinrich+Schuchardt&sponsoree_search=name

=== Areas of work ===

My main focus is on RISC-V enablement: U-Boot, OpenSBI, UEFI tools, kernel.

=== Things I could do better ===

* adding autopkg tests were missing

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

My future involvement will include

* focus on RISC-V enablement
* package support for main, universe (merging from Debian, fixing bugs)

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

The difference between upstream and Ubuntu packages is often very big. We should improve on upstreaming.

Bug reports are often not answered or resolved in a timely manner.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak ===
==== General feedback ====
I only sponsored one package for Heinrich and I generally had no issues with the upload he prepared. Heinrich is an exceptional engineer and, even though still quite fresh in the Ubuntu world, he is very passionate about Ubuntu and making it shine in the RISC-V ecosystem. I think Heinrich deserves to become an Ubuntu Contributive Developer, preparing on his road towards MOTU and, eventually, Core-Dev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''

As per the sponsorship miner, I only sponsored one 'new' package for Heinrich. It's not a very good package per-se, but only because it's a fork of u-boot: u-boot-nezha. It was forked due to the Nezha board bits not being upstreamable, so that's all good. But Heinrich demonstrated multiple times that, even though not yet too experienced, can just get things done.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I think Heinrich needs to do a bit more around regular distro, not only regarding the RISC-V architecture. He's already going in the right direction though. Also, even though so far this was not an issue, but I feel Heinrich should be a bit more open regarding asking questions related to Ubuntu processes and procedures.

=== Graham Inggs ===
==== General feedback ====
I've worked with Heinrich for the last 8 months or so.  The quality of his work is excellent and he doesn't hesitate to ask questions when procedures are unclear.  I think Heinrich is ready be a Ubuntu Contributing Developer right now, so that he can be given per-package upload for the packages he maintains.  I hope to see him applying for MOTU and Core Developer in future.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I've sponsored four uploads for Heinrich, including a backport to Focal and a sync from Debian.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Heinrich could get more experience with merges and proposed-migrations and +1 maintenance.

=== Julian Andres Klode ===
==== General feedback ====

I think Heinrich is a very capable developer with a lot of knowledge in boot processes and architecture. He can quickly adapt to new codebases and styles of working. I trust him to fix bugs and implement features in code bases, but he's early in his packaging days and needs more experience there, I think this matches very well with the status of contributing developer.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
We worked on grub review and a whole bunch of packages he added riscv64 support too that I can't all recall which I sponsored into Ubuntu (and Debian, for some).

==== Areas of Improvement ====
Heinrich is still learning packaging skills and tools, but doing so quickly.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
