{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Heather Ellsworth, apply for Ubuntu Contributing Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Heather Ellsworth
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~hellsworth
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hellsworth#preview
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==
I am a Canonical employee that cares greatly about Ubuntu desktop. While I focus on snap maintenance, I enjoy debian packaging and keeping the archive up to date. I am based out of Colorado, USA and have been a passionate open source advocate for 8 years.

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first use of Linux was with Ubuntu 7.04 and I found it to be both much more beautiful than Windows and also much less frustrating. I then tried other distros before landing on Debian for quite some time until rediscovering Ubuntu with 19.04. I've been a daily desktop user of Ubuntu since then and am proud to contribute to each release.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

''Include your existing sponsored uploads for the packages for which you are seeking upload rights. You can link directly to an upload by following <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hello/2.10-1build1|this pattern]]</nowiki>.''

** gnome-shell-extension-manager: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-shell-extension-manager
     I've built and submitted this upstream for inclusion in Debian and maintain the package, and it's dependencies (blueprint-compiler and text-engine), in Debian. This is how Ubuntu consumes the packages for distribution in the archive
** iwd to replace wpa_supplicant with network-manager: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iwd/+bug/1990705

=== Areas of work ===

As part of the desktop team, I have fixed bugs and prepared package uploads that have been sponsored. Some examples are:
** autopkgtest SRUs:
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/autopkgtest/+bug/2015290 
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/autopkgtest/+bug/2015285
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/autopkgtest/+bug/2008026
** I used to be involved with package fixes and new releases of Libreoffice
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/1886692
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/1906684
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/1904478
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/1913353
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libreoffice/+bug/1913353
*** and more

Other Ubuntu contributions outside of deb package maintenance:
** I have added the gnome-3-38 snapcraft extension, used for GNOME snaps within Ubuntu desktop (and others).
** I have been key in migrating snap packaging under the ubuntu namespace in github, and implementing the initial steps of automation key to scaling snap maintainability.
** I have run monthly Ubuntu desktop team indabas, which are an AMA style live stream to YouTube and Twitch, with some Ubuntu theme every month. I have been doing this since April 2021. My goal with these streams is to both spread key information to new users and generate excitement about new things happening in and around Ubuntu.
** I am one of the project organizers of the Linux Application Summit, where I do my best to represent Ubuntu and Canonical well with talks, running booths, office hours, and release parties.
** I am known in the GNOME space as one to maintain GNOME snaps, and volunteer at the annual GNOME conference, GUADEC. 

=== Things I could do better ===
I can be better about time boxing tasks and asking for help a little bit sooner.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I think Ubuntu lacks testing in many areas, so I plan to continue helping to test ISOs for releases, participate in the community testing week, and hopefully add to our test cases.
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
=== Jeremy Bicha ===
==== General feedback ====
I believe Heather has significantly exceeded the requirements for Ubuntu Contributing Developer, in particular with her work on .deb and Snap packaging. I strongly recommend her application be approved.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
* I mentored, reviewed & sponsored Heather's packaging for <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/blueprint-compiler|blueprint-compiler]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/text-engine|text-engine]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/gnome-shell-extension-manager|gnome-shell-extension-manager]]</nowiki>. She did the initial packaging of this app and libraries and has packaged new releases of them.
* Heather & I work on the Canonical Desktop team.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
* I am eager to see Heather get upload rights. I encourage her to apply for Debian Maintainer now.
* I think she needs to do more Ubuntu .deb packaging work to successfully apply for membership in Ubuntu Desktop, MOTU, or Core Dev. Some ways this work can be demonstrated:
** StableReleaseUpdates
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuDevelopment-Merging|merging new updates from Debian where Ubuntu has made changes to the package]]</nowiki>

=== Sergio Costas Rodriguez ===
==== General feedback ====
I began working with Heather a year ago, mainly in snap-related tasks, and my opinion is that
her work is impressive. I think that she is very valuable and a great asset, and
that's why I'm very happy to endorse her application.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

We worked together in the migration of the Gnome snaps into the new Core22 base. Also, we are working
together too in snap automation, where the objective is to automatically monitor the snaps sources
to detect whenever there is a new version, update it, test that everything runs fine, and publish
it, all as automatic as possible.

=== Sebastien Bacher ===

Heather has been actively contributing to the Ubuntu Desktop for some years. She's helping on our deb packages (new packages, merges, updates), working also directly in Debian pkg-gnome when it made sense. She's also working on the desktop snaps and updated most of our set to the new GNOME framework version. In addition of the packaging work she's also reporting issues in launchpad and contributing patches.

The indaba sessions she is hosting are also a valuable contribution to the Ubuntu project.

I'm giving a +1 to her ContributingDeveloperApplication without doubt.

=== Callahan Kovacs ===
Heather is an exceptional contributor and collaborator. I am continually impressed by how much she engages with the community, from organizing summits to the Indabas. She is passionate about open source and is not afraid to speak up. For example, she is someone who will not workaround a bug on the software she is using, but investigate it and file a useful bug report.

Heather and I work together most often on Snapcraft involving Gnome snaps and extensions. She is not afraid to ask for help and often gives feedback and bug reports. For example, last year she brought up some regressions about the logging and debug terminal for Snapcraft 7.

=== Brian Murray ===
==== General Feedback ====
I'm surprised that Heather isn't already an Ubuntu Contributing Developer. She is a valuable member of the Ubuntu community and I appreciate the work she has been doing.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Heather and I worked together on getting a new version of autopkgtest backported to multiple releases of Ubuntu. I appreciated her patience (with the process and my nitpicky feedback) and her persistence in getting this done. Having the same version of autopkgtest easily available for all Ubuntu developers is quite helpful!

----
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryUniverseContributorApplication]]</nowiki>
