{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/help-for-each-languages (before <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/80978|bug #80978]]</nowiki>)
* '''Packages affected''': language-support-* 

=== Summary ===
Now help files for Gnome aplications are delivered in application package. I suggest create a deb package with help files for each language. Example: help-pack-gnome-pl-base, help-pack-pl-base (like a language-pack-gnome-pl-base, language-pack-pl-base)

Help files now: <code>/usr/share/gnome/help/''aplication name''/''code of language''</code>
(eg. <code>/usr/share/gnome/help/gedit/fr</code>)

=== Rationale ===
I think that separation give reason to speed translate help files to other languages. And less space on disk (and CD) was save...

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

This is my first FeatureSpecifications - maybe is wrong write. Earlier I create a bug with this suggest (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/80978|bug #80978]]</nowiki>).  Sorry - my english is not very well. ;) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Adas|Adas]]</nowiki>

----
CategorySpec
