{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Varies somewhat from the setup described on <nowiki>[[http://moinmoin.wikiwikiweb.de/]]</nowiki> homepage, 

/!\ '''Note:''' This guide has been adjusted to accommodate for a custom wiki name.  If you spot an error, please fix it.

== Steps to Install ==
Derived from <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=206853]]</nowiki>

=== Install Required Packages ===

Required packages are as follows:
* python-moinmoin (Which should point to the proper python version)
* apache2 webserver

<pre>
sudo apt-get install python-moinmoin
sudo apt-get install apache2
</pre>

=== Create a Wiki With "wikiname" ===
Create a wiki called "wikiname" and set the permissions.

<pre>
cd /usr/share/moin
sudo mkdir wikiname
sudo cp -R data wikiname
sudo cp -R underlay wikiname
sudo cp server/moin.cgi wikiname
sudo chown -R www-data.www-data wikiname
sudo chmod -R ug+rwx wikiname
sudo chmod -R o-rwx wikiname
</pre>

=== Configure MoinMoin to Locate "wikiname" ===
Relevant MoinMoin config files are located in /etc/moin/

Edit /etc/moin/farmconfig.py, and after the line <code>"wikis = ["</code> add your "wikiname".  For a single instance wiki, this would entail renaming the following line from:

<pre>
("mywiki", r".*"),
</pre>

to

<pre>
("wikiname", r".*"),
</pre>

Copy the /etc/moin/mywiki.py file to /etc/moin/wikiname.py:
<pre>
sudo cp /etc/moin/mywiki.py /etc/moin/wikiname.py
</pre>

Edit the /etc/moin/wikiname.py and change all instances of mywiki to wikiname.  In addition to this, change the data dir to point to your local installation of MoinMoin:

<pre>
data_dir = '/usr/share/moin/wikiname/data'
</pre>

=== Make apache ready for your wiki ===
Insert into <code>/etc/apache2/sites-available/default</code>
(inside of the "<code><VirtualHost *></code>" tag)

<pre>
ScriptAlias /wikiname "/usr/share/moin/wikiname/moin.cgi"
alias /wiki "/usr/share/moin/htdocs"
alias /moin_static171 "/usr/share/moin/htdocs"
<Directory /usr/share/moin/htdocs>
Order allow,deny
allow from all
</Directory>
</pre>

(Note: /moin_static171 will probably have to be changed to your current version number)

Restart apache to apply your changes:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
</pre>

=== See if it works ===
Go to your wiki's homepage:

http://127.0.0.1/wikiname
Or try the test command:

http://127.0.0.1/wikiname?action=test

== Next Steps ==
=== Security ===
You should probably set up MoinMoin:PasswordProtectedEditing and investigate other security stuff: MoinMoin:SecurityPolicy.

== Troubleshootings ==

=== Server Name warning ===
<pre>
 apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.1.1 for ServerName
</pre>

 http://wiki.apache.org/httpd/CouldNotDetermineServerName?highlight=(ServerName)

Solution:
* Add in /etc/apache2/apache.conf the following:

<pre>
ServerName <hostname>
</pre>

 Where <hostname> is your actual host name, like www.google.com or IP like 89.234.12.45

=== Permission denied ===
(13)Permission denied: make_sock: could not bind to address 0.0.0.0:80
no listening sockets available, shutting down

http://wiki.apache.org/httpd/CouldNotDetermineServerName?highlight=(ServerName)

Solution:
