{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents/目次'''<<BR>>
|}
One of the many reasons that Ubuntu is a great operating system is because it's developed by the community.  You, me, and hundreds of other people join efforts in making it better each day.

Ubuntuが優れたオペレーションシステムである理由の一つにコミュニティによって開発されているということがあります。あなた、私、そして他の何百人もの人々がより良くしようと毎日取り組みに参加しています。

Which is why we're very happy that you want to help with bugs.

これはあなたがバグ関連を手伝いたいと考えてることが、私たちにとってとてもうれしいと感じている理由です。

'''If you want information about filing bugs, please see ReportingBugs'''

'''バグをファイリングすることの情報が欲しいければ、ReportingBugsを見てください。'''

Don't feel intimidated when you're first starting out.  You can start with something simple like triaging bugs or you can jump right in with fixing bugs themselves.

初心者でも気にしないでください。簡単なもの、例えばバグの振り分け(triaging)などから始められますし、バグ自体の修理に取り組むこともできます。

We regularly hold <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>s, where people from all over chip in and focus on a particular area.  But don't feel like you have to wait.  Just jump right in!

私たちは定期的に、全員で特定の場所にあるバグに焦点を当てバグを削る、<nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki>を行います。しかし、これを待つ必要はありません。取り組んでください！

== Bugs ==

== バグ ==

When we talk about <nowiki>[[Bugs]]</nowiki>, we're discussing faults or errors in the software.  They're errors because the software ''claims'' to do certain things but then fails to.

私たちは<nowiki>[[バグ]]</nowiki>について語るとき、それがソフトウェアの短所かそれとも誤りかについて議論します。ソフトウェアは一定のことをすることを''要求します''がそれができないので、これらは全て誤りに属します。

For instance, if a program suddenly disappears, that's a bug.  Or if a program is supposed to play music, but doesn't make a sound, that's a bug.  Or if some text is translated incorrectly, that's also a bug.

例えばあるプログラムが突然見えなくなったらそれはバグです。また、音楽を演奏すると思われるあるプログラムが音を出さないならそれはバグです。また、あるテキストが間違って翻訳されているなら、それもまたバグです。

Some things aren't bugs, but are missing features that should be reasonably included.  There isn't a bright line that you can draw between bugs and missing features, but here's a guideline: if it's a problem that would have many details to address, it's likely to be a feature.  For example, the inability to write files safely to a modern Windows partition is a missing feature.  The inability to write files safely to a ReiserFS partition would be a bug.

いくつかのものはバグではありませんが、それらは合理的に含まれてしかるべきなのに欠けている機能です。バグと欠けている機能との間に明確な線はありませんが、ここにガイドラインがあります: '''FIXME'''

Another way of distinguishing a bug is if it's a regression.  That means that something used to work, and now doesn't any more.  We try fairly hard to get these identified early, because regressions are bad news.

バグを分別する他の方法はそれが退行バグかどうかです。退行バグとは使えてた機能が今は使えないということを意味します。退行は凶報であるので、私たちはこれらを早く一生懸命に特定しようとします。

== Joining the team ==

== チームに参加する ==

The people who work on bugs in Ubuntu are called the Ubuntu BugSquad.  Check out the BugSquad/GettingInvolved page to learn how to join.

Ubuntuではバグ周りで作業している人はUbuntu BugSquadと呼ばれます。BugSquad/GettingInvolved ページを見て、参加方法を理解してください。

== Bug triage ==

== バグの振り分け ==

Bug triage is an essential part of Ubuntu's development.  Jokingly, we like to call it DrinkingFromTheFirehose.  This is due to the vast number of bugs filed every day.  We get a new bug filed about once every five to ten minutes (circa September 2006).

バグの振り分けはUbuntuの開発にとって無くてはならない部分です。私たちはそれを、ふざけてDrinkingFromTheFirehoseと呼ぶのが好きです。'''FIXME'''

Triaging bugs consists of a few things:
* Responding to new bugs as they are filed.
* Ensuring that new bugs have all the necessary information.
* Assigning bugs to the proper package.
* Confirming bug reports by trying to reproduce them.
* Setting the priority of bugs reports.
* Searching for and marking duplicates in the bug tracking system.
* Sending bugs to their upstream authors, when applicable.
* Cross-referencing bugs from other distributions.
* Expiring old bugs.

It's an excellent way to start helping out.  You get to learn a lot about Ubuntu and its infrastructure.  And you get a feel for the pulse of Ubuntu development.

You can learn how to triage bugs and chip in, just see the <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> page.

== Fixing bugs ==

== バグを修正する ==

'''FIXME'''

If you've got an interest in a devoting more time, we'd love to have you help fix bugs.  Each package you install in Ubuntu gets built from a source package.  Each source package has a page devoted to its bugs.

For instance, the bug page for the <code>hello</code> package is at: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hello/+bugs]]</nowiki>.

You don't have to know how to program to fix bugs, but it certainly helps!  There are some simple things that anyone can do.  For starters, many bugs involve typos or documentation problems, which anyone can fix.  If you can write in another language, there are plenty of translation errors you can solve.  For functionality problems, you can try to track down a fix by the upstream authors of a package.  Or find a fix that was included in another distribution.

You can learn more about fixing bugs by reading the <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToFix]]</nowiki> page.

== Adopting a package ==

== パッケージを承認する ==

'''FIXME'''

If you've got a keen interest in a particular source package, you can help out by adopting it.  This means that you want to act as a liaison between Ubuntu and the people who wrote the package that we include.

This involves developing a relationship with the people who work on this software: developers, users, and other members of the community.  You can quickly become an expert by triaging bugs associated with this package and even fixing some of them.

You can learn more about doing this by consulting the <nowiki>[[BugSquad-AdoptPackage]]</nowiki> page.

== See also ==

== 参照 ==

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki> - start here! :-)
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuBugDay]]</nowiki> - ここから初めてください :-)
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> will show you how to begin and which steps are to be followed as a bug triager
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> バグ振り分け人の始め方とどの方法に従うべきかを表示します。
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-CommonTasks]]</nowiki> explains different tasks, which are done in the world of bugs every day
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-CommonTasks]]</nowiki> 毎日バグの世界で完了した異なったタスクについて説明します。
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-ToolsAndLinks]]</nowiki> lists tools and links, which make your life easier
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-ToolsAndLinks]]</nowiki> あなたの人生を簡単にするツールとリンクのリスト
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses]]</nowiki> has a list of stock responses for the most common cases
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Responses]]</nowiki> 多数の共通ケースについての対処の蓄積リスト
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance]]</nowiki> explains the importance field in Ubuntu bugs
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Importance]]</nowiki> Ubuntuのバグでの重要度フィールドの説明
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Examples]]</nowiki> show examples of bugs and how they were resolved
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Examples]]</nowiki> バグの例とそれらがどう解決されたかを表示します。
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Teams]]</nowiki> introduces to different workflows of different teams
* <nowiki>[[Bugs-Teams]]</nowiki> 異なったチームのワークフローを異なって導入
* <nowiki>[[Debian-Bugs]]</nowiki> for specific information about sharing bugs/patches with Debian
* <nowiki>[[Debian-Bugs]]</nowiki> バグ/パッチをDebianと共有することに関する特別な情報のために
* <nowiki>[[TriagingXBugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[TriagingXBugs]]</nowiki>
* DebuggingUbiquity which states "Please do not assign ubiquity bugs to anyone unless you're a ubiquity developer or you manage a ubiquity developer. Please don't reject ubiquity bugs unless you're a ubiquity developer. In general, please try to refrain from causing unnecessary extra bug mail noise for ubiquity developers or from taking items off their to-do lists without consulting them first."
* DebuggingUbiquity '''FIXME'''
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/graphs/|(New) Ubuntu Bug Statistics]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~brian/graphs/|(新) Ubuntuバグ統計]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[DebuggingProcedures]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu bugs
* <nowiki>[[DebuggingProcedures]]</nowiki> Ubuntuのバグのために

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryBugSquad-ja]]</nowiki>
