{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hemanth is that kind of a person , who admits he doesn't know it , if he really doesn't know it and will not stop there , but rather hunt down and always loves to sit for long hours learning new things and trying to do something revolutionary.

He believes in the quote " IF u can dream it you can do it " , though he is a Computer science graduate , he is interested in art and philosophy.Also does some translations in launchpad.

'''What is he doing in Ubuntu ?'''

  '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hemanth-hm | hemanth-hm]]</nowiki>

  '''Brainstrom:''' <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hemanth_brainstrom |hemanth_brainstrom]]</nowiki>

  '''Site:''' <nowiki>[[http://www.h3manth.com | h3manth.com]]</nowiki>

Offline , i help many people near my place to switch to ubuntu , i go to there place and teach them how to install and spread the awareness of ubuntu and teach them to pass it on

I have given many public demonstrations , in schools and universities near my place about how to on ubuntu , will not hesitate to go and speak on even bigger stage , so that i can share more ideas and thoughts.

'''What are the other things he has done in his life so far ?'''

Participation in National level science model making competition.

First prize in State level in paper presentation.

Gold medal in state level debate.

Best actor and best debater awards in many competitions.

'''Anything other than this ?'''

Hosting a Google open source project @ :<nowiki>[[http://www.code.google.com/p/vayu/ | vayu ]]</nowiki>

Uploading and maintaining few photos @ :<nowiki>[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/hemanth_hm/| flickr ]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonals : ===

Knowing hemanth personally from past more than decade and a half, He is a very deligent intelligent and capable to turn it on guy (What I have to say he has only put that in his wiki above) A truly dedicated person in life.. in short, I fully support his membership application because I think he deserves it ( Espcially a specialist in idea generation. Just take a look at his brainstorm contribution). -- <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bhavi | Bhavani Shankar]]</nowiki> (18th April 2009)
