{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===
I have been using Linux intensively for quite a few years now. I started using Ubuntu just after the warty release.

==== Work & Study ====

Part-time work, part-time study, part-time a lot of other stuff. :)

Currently I'm working on a project to migrate a primary school to Edubuntu (almost finished).

At the moment I’m studying for my bachelor in software engineering at the Hanzehogeschool (Groningen, in the Netherlands). However I changed my study program a bit and put my focus on Linux in the last two years. But I end up with the same piece of paper. I expect to graduate early 2007.

==== Fields of interest ====

*** Ubuntu
*** Linux security (especially host based)
*** Migrating Windows environment to Linux
*** Terminal server stuff (Edubuntu)
*** more…

==== Wishlist ====
*** Learn spanish…
*** Travel
*** More Ubuntu everywhere

==== Links to information ====
** My launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/people/hbos
** My weblog: http://users.lichtsnel.nl/~spacey

=== Ubuntu work ===

==== Wiki ====
** ModChroot
** <nowiki>[[ContentInternetFiltering/Willow]]</nowiki>

==== Development ====
** I file bugs if I encounter them. See launchpad profile.
** I attended Ubuntu Below Zero in Montreal, Canada for 10 days and gave input, raised discussion on topics of interest.

==== Edubuntu ====
** Attend most Edubuntu meetings
** Give support on #edubuntu
** Give support @ edubuntu-devel mailinglist
** Test Edubuntu 
** Use Edubuntu in production environment and supply feedback.
** Tested Willow for Edubuntu content filtering.

==== Ubuntu-NL LocoTeam ====
** Give support on #ubuntu-nl
** Attend occasional real life meeting
** Redistributed CD's and promoted Ubuntu at my college

==== Misc ====
** I blog about Ubuntu/Edubuntu!

==== Work pending ====
** Writing a part of the <nowiki>[[EdubuntuDocumentation/EdubuntuCookbook]]</nowiki>
** Some LTSP experience to docs
** Extensive (end-user) feedback from schoolproject to edubuntu.

==== Future work ====
** Migrate more schools to edubuntu :)
** Continue my past efforts
** Write more documentation

----
CategoryHomepage
