{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Contact Info ==

Email: herton@ubuntu.com<<BR>>
IRC (freenode): herton<<BR>>
Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~herton|herton]]</nowiki><<BR>>
Location: <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curitiba|Curitiba]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paran%C3%A1_%28state%29|Paraná]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brazil|Brazil]]</nowiki>

== About Me ==

I'm Herton Ronaldo Krzesinski, I work for Canonical as a Kernel
Developer (Generalist). I'm on Ubuntu Kernel team, currently
working with stable kernels, helping taking care of updates and processes
we use to release them. I also from time to time take a look at some
bugs, working with reporters to diagnose and identify or make fixes
(working on the stable kernels, currently I am mostly interested in
proven regressions reported).

I'm active in open source for almost 10 years now, and in the last 4 
years mostly focusing on the linux kernel. Most part of my contributions
to the kernel were patches fixing bugs or hardware enablement issues 
with some machines, many of them were intel hda codec issues. Also I'm
author and current listed maintainer of topstar-laptop hotkey ACPI
driver, and co-maintainer of rtl8187 (although lately I'm not much active
on them, and also I don't have anymore hardware for both).
