{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Herton Ronaldo Krzesinski, apply for upload rights for linux-* packages.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Herton Ronaldo Krzesinski
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~herton
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HertonKrzesinski
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm Herton Ronaldo Krzesinski, I work for Canonical as a Kernel Developer (Generalist). I'm on Ubuntu Kernel team, currently working with stable kernels, helping taking care of updates and processes we use to release them. I also from time to time take a look at some bugs, working with reporters to diagnose and identify or make fixes (working on the stable kernels, currently I am mostly interested in proven regressions reported). 

== My Ubuntu story ==

=== My involvement ===
I started working with Ubuntu since I joined Canonical at February, 2011. In the beginning I was following and taking a look at several kernel bugs, either trying to fix issues or investigating problems reported by users (asking their help by asking more relevant information, helping on bisecting providing pre-built kernels, etc).

Now my efforts are concentrated mainly on kernel stable updates, helping kernel SRU updates, developing kernel team tools to keep up with the Kernel SRU workflow, etc.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Five examples of bugs reported which I helped triage/fix:<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/752870|Oops after resume from hibernate on restore_image]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/745213|mxb: general protection fault at v4l2_device_register_subdev+0x95]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/729085|kvm_amd and qemu: BUG: unable to handle kernel NULL pointer dereference at 00000014]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/733780|BUG: unable to handle kernel paging request at 00100104]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/793796|2.6.38-10 panic after ejecting drive]]</nowiki><<BR>>

Also I was responsible for working on several latest updates for kernel stable packages, which got signed/sponsored by other ubuntu kernel team members:<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/linux/2.6.38-11.50|linux 2.6.38-11.50 (natty)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/linux/2.6.38-11.49|linux 2.6.38-11.49 (natty)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/linux/2.6.38-11.49|linux 2.6.38-11.48 (natty)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-30.60|linux 2.6.35-30.60 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-30.59|linux 2.6.35-30.59 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-30.58|linux 2.6.35-30.58 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-30.57|linux 2.6.35-30.59 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux/2.6.35-30.56|linux 2.6.35-30.56 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux/2.6.32-34.75|linux 2.6.32-34.75 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux/2.6.32-34.74|linux 2.6.32-34.74 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux/2.6.32-34.73|linux 2.6.32-34.73 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/linux/2.6.24-29.94|linux 2.6.24-29.94 (hardy)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/linux/2.6.24-29.93|linux 2.6.24-29.93 (hardy)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/linux/2.6.24-29.92|linux 2.6.24-29.92 (hardy)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/linux/2.6.24-29.90|linux 2.6.24-29.90 (hardy)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-backports-modules-2.6.35/2.6.35-30.22|linux-backports-modules-2.6.35 2.6.35-30.22 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-backports-modules-2.6.32/2.6.32-34.35|linux-backports-modules-2.6.32 2.6.32-34.35 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-lts-backport-natty/2.6.38-11.50~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-natty 2.6.38-11.50~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-lts-backport-natty/2.6.38-11.49~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-natty 2.6.38-11.49~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-lts-backport-maverick/2.6.35-30.60~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-maverick 2.6.35-30.60~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-lts-backport-maverick/2.6.35-30.59~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-maverick 2.6.35-30.59~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-lts-backport-maverick/2.6.35-30.58~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-maverick 2.6.35-30.58~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-lts-backport-maverick/2.6.35-30.57~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-maverick 2.6.35-30.57~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-lts-backport-maverick/2.6.35-30.56~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-maverick 2.6.35-30.56~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/linux-lts-backport-maverick/2.6.35-30.54~lucid1|linux-lts-backport-maverick 2.6.35-30.54~lucid1]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/2.6.35.30.38|linux-meta 2.6.35.30.38 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/2.6.32.34.40|linux-meta 2.6.32.34.40 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-mvl-dove/2.6.32-417.34|linux-mvl-dove 2.6.32-417.34 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-mvl-dove/2.6.32-217.34|linux-mvl-dove 2.6.32-217.34 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ports-meta/2.6.35.30.23|linux-ports-meta 2.6.35.30.23 (maverick)]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ports-meta/2.6.32.34.26|linux-ports-meta 2.6.32.34.26 (lucid)]]</nowiki><<BR>>

=== Areas of work ===
Until now, my work involved kernel bug handling and stable updates (only kernel related work).

All issues I had to deal involved mostly the kernel team until now. I communicate with colleagues inside the team depending on what's the matter, eg. for syncing linux-ec2 updates I check with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~stefan-bader-canonical|Stefan Bader]]</nowiki> when necessary, for some arm related package pendency I seek first <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~p-pisati|Paolo Pisatti]]</nowiki>. For kernel bugs related to current development distro release, I talk to the current kernel release manager when appropriate.

On kernel stable updates and tooling related to kernel SRU workflow, I work with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sconklin|Steve Conklin]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brad-figg|Brad Figg]]</nowiki>.

Everything went ok so far regarding my work with the team. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sconklin|Steve Conklin]]</nowiki> helped me a lot in guiding me through the necessary tasks in the stable updates work.

=== Things I could do better ===
I'm glad when I'm able to fix user reported problems and contributing that upstream, and work on tooling and make sure the kernel updates are on track. Communicate better about this work I do probably is something I could make better, and it's what I feel lacking from me currently.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===
I always try to maintain the better quality I can for the work I do, and plan to continue improving this, be it on tasks related to the maintenance of the linux kernel for Ubuntu or other related kernel task. Also improving always my skills where needed in order to better handle and fix any kernel problems which may appear.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
I find the political structure inside the project a bit hard to follow at the start, and all membership levels and boards are confusing for newcomers I think, may be they could be simplified. I tend to not like bureaucracy like that, thinking that it also may hinder or scare new contributors, which may choose another project to contribute. But I have to admit that there may be good reasons the processes are as they are now, and for a huge project as Ubuntu to stay healthy and handle contributions they may be necessary.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
----
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

=== SteveConklin ===

==== General feedback ====

I have been reviewing and sponsoring Herton's packages for months. See
his application above for a list of some of his sponsored kernel package
uploads. His work is very high quality, and he has not truly needed a
sponsor for a while now. Herton has also reviewed my kernel packages
before upload, and caught errors that I have made.

His contributions to the tools used by the stable kernel team are a bit
understated in his application - he has contributed significant new
functionality in our workflow tools, and rapidly developed an
understanding of the complexities of those tools.

He has a good sense of the responsibility required to deliver kernel
packages, and the troubleshooting skills required to isolate problems.
I trust him to deliver quality kernel packages for Ubuntu, and to ask
when he has questions.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I've enjoyed working with Herton. He works well with our
team and with others, including the certification and QA teams.
He is available during regular hours, and is very responsive to
problems. A review of the bugs he has worked on and listed above
will show that he can quickly work with bug reporters to isolate
problems.

He has made mistakes, but he doesn't make the same mistake twice.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I'm sure that as Herton's knowledge of the other areas of the
Ubuntu 'ecosystem' and community increase, he'll contribute in
those areas also. It's impossible to find areas in which you
would say that he needs to improve, as he's moved rapidly to
learn and constantly adjust his own processes and knowledge,
and I'm sure this will continue.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)

iQIcBAEBCAAGBQJOhik9AAoJEGJoj/M6dYoehaUP/0CVOvNa1cWMZ/nz3QDETOYe
iB14niGRpLeVeYJ1iJqshPBfzqK2r6PVZ7Ho9TewehwHsBOFWjYIP0VOTE/sXRqX
KQk+XbZe0MSt4axjoSKZ117y/1LUjVl6qkJheOv94bEOOeO6Q7K1MtjpbwfBALVF
v8sk4FDCIG95LxFJ8NMl6xa4S1NlTUwKECKK2g96VgVstsBlIOWNKXX+FJqwLe4h
jUo07kT5y+x1uHEI4lW4g3LzX3igFHy6a7wgf3IBeHJOImO4dwDu9qR442vaE3AL
qtz9leZSXwBRkMmchCjwltMGGhaW1g5MmOBi0OBD+1iM8AxDdN4ZJ+sWqKuMWHkc
MGvdLoGj/zuG3WsjXEyCkEkgrwIuYfGF+djKaxzxCnvTJwPzAYBGxjUb61yXJUBL
OeGNuqeIcnrI4PLpFIROIVW/tIihn6ZcMUdIaY0x5NN0mjwVWEDPGdN6HKOmgsCk
0JLYSSSE41zE1s+Pm2pZuOwAJpuPloU5GZGN7C8+rttdzdIIxKaQusnFehubCIIr
KifuZINbOuUubMz2rW1c0dGPFMHAHLkIoJRr7zUM0F7aeZ9JlxBCUCboPOeQ0vMP
PtAZ1uccfkU1LQbAzhDw1kNUfAui0+3bB+5BlPXHyPzgUA1G45jIR9U4VAt6NXj4
UtAMoDoz5yXNpl01LWwJ
=e8Bv
----
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA512

Herton has proven to be contientious, capable, and trustworthy.
He has my complete confidence and endorsement for linux package upload rights.

Tim Gardner Sept 30, 2011
https://launchpad.net/~timg-tpi
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.10 (GNU/Linux)
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=6P8v
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
=== Brad Figg ===
==== General feedback ====
Herton and I worked together during the the Natty development cycle. We were both
working on stable kernels for the Ubuntu Kernel Team. Herton prepared numerous
kernel branches and packages. I reviewed quite a few of them.

I believe Herton to be diligent, trustworthy and very compitent. He has my complete
confidence in the responsibility these upload rights grant him.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)

iQIcBAEBAgAGBQJOjhNAAAoJEAx7WJsQW+f3Bl8P/iKsDB09bkLM+THtHfJUDOpW
LJxDy1Sn1WAdK/Q6PgKtbMtiMS9v8XAINzUX+jbF3Ed0YC7T/Ub9opo2cSxfhCJB
3XxVEfRUQRSNc0Qlm+rsBGgbO7oZA2noKwwmkBh0wbk4n2iA8OFx5Nqmx6NhmWUH
xMpJk9tscLH445sZ46zvrBure04HIwFWbHptdjdTNaFuxPUzLCO4JFQ/pTtq2pKg
A411IDIfpht72F/S3ZxQZCGb3bukbEVf8a+V3Mn8Gb46qIKytxA+5mkVfTg2BEzh
o+lkmmpwTk7byiGgF6kSUVP7w3rfdp7Xh2czuJEPtLebl1BfLdZmaDF2Yjj6IqQm
jGEc+nzBvI3fwaNC/6agm4CDolx9eKPevC1bs2/+Bb22CpJweRbS6XnGGarE5xlt
sge0bawRv4unxljYj/BOQQS6aADuH1esNkcZvEAjccK1xWIdaainNPjE17oHuuiw
FiA/t5K+QPTsLPDmFz1BOs96AivRfjWe7676OIYcA/9WGszwwLkc+DkHkG4uS9dL
J49uRvlO/lbjDmXWHDe0AEMmo02quY+Eo/UteDQ5ZYnD6eUkOORkcHv0PzdTy2+b
XqWK42X9J1dFw8mECSDQz25OEJJd4/JY0iayWea33hrU8u94pJaYjCGMYxzZOV/q
cFPbrior49zOJTDT54vM
=Hplk
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
=== Leann Ogasawara ===
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Herton has been vital member of the stable kernel maintenance team.
He's been responsible for preparing many of the recent kernel SRU packages,
tracking test results, and monitoring reported regressions.  Herton
is responsible, definitely capable, and trustworthy.  He has my full
endorsement for receiving upload rights for the kernel and related
packages.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.11 (GNU/Linux)
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=Ir+f
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
