{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About me ==
My name is Hugo Franco. I'm a Computer Systems Engineer by the Universidad Nacional de Colombia and a PhD Candidate by the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Spain. I've born in Bogota, Colombia, in November 11th, 1975.

* e-mail: hfranco -at- dfmf uned es
* website: http://www.dfmf.uned.es/~hfranco

== Personal Objectives ==

I'm joining the Colombian LoCo Team because I strongly believe that the future of the ITs in developing countries (such as Colombia) is tightly related to the insertion, diffusion and popularization of Open Source applications and methodologies, especially certain features like free access to application source code, free licensing of highly complex OSes and applications, cooperative code development and application support and, very important, a real and effective technology transference to the country as a whole, not tied to particular interests of companies and, then, trunked and constrained to the benefit obtained by them.

Here, I hope to share all the information available on the installation, configuration, administration and use of Linux OS and, specifically, Ubuntu, according to my experience as user and, sometimes, system administrator.

== Contributions ==

None until now, but I'm developing at least two open source applications, related to my PhD studies, that I expect to publish during next weeks.

== Vision about Ubuntu Colombia ==

Ubuntu Colombia should become a strong and active community, focused both in contributing to the Ubuntu Project and in spreading the use of the Ubuntu Linux Distribution in our country. This last task involves an intensive work of publicity and education of potential users mean the organization and participation in events related to Information Technologies. One front that requires special attention is the popularization in schools and universities.
----
CategoryHomepage
