{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== EeeBotu ===
EeeBotu is the bot which announces incoming Ubuntu bugs in #ubuntu-bugs-announce on the Freenode IRC network.

/!\ page recreated from the original at wiki.ubuntu.com/MikeRooney/EeeBotu after it went MIA

==== Status Updates ====

* 2010/12/22 09:00 CST: ah well. The code entered a loop and kept on displaying the same bugs over and over again. I think I got it corrected, though. So much for my programming skills, I guess :-(
* 2010/12/21 08:59 CST: new version of eeeBotu, now capable of monitoring different projects for different channels
* 2010/08/06 07:29 CDT: we had an extended power outage, from about 19:00 yesterday to 06:45 (actually power returned earlier, but then '''I''' was powered off). On powering on we found an issue with the ISP connection, which took a bit to unravel. Now life is good again. Sorry. And no, the dogs did not chew the power cable, just the backyard water hose.
* 2010/03/26 17:45 CDT: server was rebooted due to security updates
* 2010/03/06 18:02 CST This was an eventful Friday-Saturday: eeeBotu moved to a new location, and I succeeded in messing up ''a lot'': wrong network configuration on the router, wrong NIC attached to the router, a really badly crimped network replacement cable, etc, etc. But now all is good. I think. Sorry.
* 2010/02/15 09:39 CST server rebooted after security updates
* 2010/01/21 19:58 CST server went offline after a power supply failure. Took 30 minutes to (1) notice it; (2) replace the power supply; (3) recover the system. Sorry. ''This'' time, my dogs are not guilty.
* 2009/11/18 19:53 CST eeebotu was recycled for https://launchpad.net/bugs/484337. 
* 11/07/2009 18:46 CST eeebotu was offline for about 2 minutes, due to a reboot after security updates
* 09/11/2009 17:59 CDT we have been off since 07:15 this morning due to power outages. Blame the TX weather. We are now back, but storms still abound.
* 05/09/2009 14:45 CDT eeebotu was offline for about 15 minutes, due to a reboot after security updates
* 04/07/2009 07:02 CDT eeebotu is back (or, rather, the LP feed is back)
* 04/06/2009 12:51 CDT onward: the LP feed has a problem, and eeebotu currently is idling
* 04/03/2009 14:30 CDT eeebotu was restarted to correct a small logging issue
* 02/08/2009 17:44 EST eeebotu was restarted after fixing bug 326957
* 02/08/2009 16:20 EST system was restarted after applying security fixes
* 01/06/2009 13:20 EST system was restarted after applying security fixes
* 01/04/2009 14:00 EST The system was offline for some hours after one of my dogs decided to chew the network cable. Sorry.
* 11/14/2008 13:03 EDT EEEbotu has been down for 5 minutes for a required reboot after new kernel install.
* 08/28/2008 20:02 EDT Bot has been reset -- we are still looking at why it drops connection every so often, but should be working now. We hope ;-)
* 08/17/2008 10:00AM EST Bot has been relocated to a new server, and should be up & running continuously now.
* 08/16/2008 10:04AM EST Bot is up and running on a temporary server.
* 08/16/2008 09:00AM EST Bot will be down for a few hours while I move.
* 08/08/2008 06:34PM EST Bot is currently up and running!

==== Source ====

EeeBotu is hosted on Launchpad at https://launchpad.net/eeebotu and is licensed under the GPLv3. Feel free to report a bug or make improvements!
