{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

CategoryHomepage

'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;<<BR>>
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.<<BR>>
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,<<BR>>
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part<<BR>>
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!<<BR>>
__What's in a name? that which we call a rose<<BR>>
By any other name would smell as sweet__;<<BR>>
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,<<BR>>
Retain that dear perfection which he owes<<BR>>
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,<<BR>>
And for that name which is no part of thee<<BR>>
Take all myself.<<BR>>

And, about Ubuntu, and FLOSS in general...<<BR>>

O, wonder!<<BR>>
How many goodly creatures are there here!<<BR>>
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,<<BR>>
That has such people in't!<<BR>>

(I have to say that I would rather have it as 'how beautous ''human''kind is', but this is how it is shown in the original, and one should not change what has been written to adjust to current views.)
----

=== About Me ===

==== Summary ====

I've been a Linux user since about 1996, having used "pure" Linux, then Slackware, Debian, Gentoo, RH, and Ubuntu (and, probably, others, but I do not remember any more). I started on computing in 1974 as an operator for the mainframes (IBM S/360, S/370, and Burroughs B6000) in my University data centre, then got to be an applications programmer, systems programmer, technical support, network analyst, computer security expert, etc, etc, etc. I am at home with Windows, *IX, and IBM zOS. I worked for Canonical in the Ubuntu engineering QA team for a few years.

==== Basic Facts ====

Location: Plano, TX, USA

==== Contact ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| hggdh2 at ubuntu dot com
|-
| IRC
| hggdh @ irc.freenode.net or irc.gimp.org
|-
| OpenPGP key
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x7DBAF3B1CA5A0C20|CA5A0C20]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad Account
| http://launchpad.net/~hggdh2
|-
| Ubuntu Forums
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=228807|hggdh]]</nowiki>
|-
| Wiki (this page)
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hggdh
|}

=== On-line Presence ===

I am usually on-line Monday-Friday from 12:00 to 01:00 UTC; presence during weekends and national holidays is in firefly mode.

=== My Contributions ===

Most of my life in Ubuntu is bug management and QA :-)

==== Ubuntu Forums ====

I have been a member of the forums since January 2007. I try to help wherever I can.

==== Ubuntu Bug Squad and Bug Control ====

I have been a member of the Bug Squad since February 2007, and a member of Bug Control since March 2007; currently, I am one of the administrators for both teams.

==== Ubuntu Beginner's Team ====

During UDS-Natty I met with some of the folks in the BT, and saw a confluence of interests -- in my case, the BT efforts to educate triagers --. I then started to be present, be available, and help where possible.

==== Future Plans ====
This is a list of goals which I am (sort of) actively pursuing, or hope to pursue in the future.
  
** keep on helping on coreutils
** Learn more about packaging and contribute to the MOTU team, and coreutils
** Continue providing support on Ubuntu Bugs
** keep on packaging upstream test fixes for some packages, as upstream requests me. These interim fixes are usually published on my PPA.
  
=== Testimonials ===

* Hggdh is a valuable member of Bugsquad and Ubuntu Bug-Control. He often assists new triagers with very sound advice. An excellent ability to express himself, coupled with his knowledge is always welcome. His helpful attitude and dedication serve as examples to all. --<nowiki>[[Launchpad:~charlie-tca]]</nowiki>

* Hggdh is always very helpful and keeps on debugging all nasty bugs that pop up on Evolution. Plus his instructions on #ubuntu-bugs are always welcome, to triage bugs that users like have. --<nowiki>[[Launchpad:~BUGabundo]]</nowiki>

* Hggdh is a core member of the Ubuntu Bug Control team.  His feedback on Bug Control applications is always helpful and instructive.  I also find his willingness to help new bug triagers and bug reporters in the #ubuntu-bugs IRC channel invaluable and heartily endorse his Ubuntu membership.  -- BrianMurray

* Hggdh has been doing useful work on desktop bugs and especially evolution ones for a while now, interacting with users and upstream when required, uploading changes to test to his ppa and working on jaunty changes -- SebastienBacher

* Hggdh graciously hosts EeeBotu, the bug announcing bot in #ubuntu-bugs-announce, and has been doing so for quite a while with superb uptime and reliability! Without him this useful service could not exist. He is also very helpful in #ubuntu-bugs with triaging in general and helping beginners who wander in. -- <nowiki>[[Launchpad:~mrooney]]</nowiki>
