{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

My name is Eleni Maria Stea and I am a software engineer at Canonical Ltd. My work mostly revolves around the Ubuntu desktop code (I work on nux, compiz, unity and some related programs). I like programming and especially computer graphics, computer vision and image processing (hobby projects: http://imgur.com/a/X06TZ). My favorite programming languages are C, C++ and Perl. 

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| hikiko
|-
| Email
| elenimaria.stea@canonical.com
|-
| Website
| http://eleni.mutantstargoat.com
|-
| Blog
| https://ufuntu.wordpress.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Bug fixes and new features on nux, compiz, unity and other desktop related projects in C++, GLSL: https://launchpad.net/~hikiko
* Ubuntu desktop related posts: https://ufuntu.wordpress.com/category/ubuntu-2/
* Other projects I've worked on in the past: Mir, Ubuntu phone (early days)

=== Future Goals ===

Improve the Ubuntu desktop experience.

=== Testimonials ===

Eleni is an active contributor to the Unity stack through her roles in Canonical. She uses the appropriate methods to consistently land changes into Ubuntu and such she seems like an excellent candidate for Ubuntu membership. Welcome Eleni!

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:robert-ancell]]</nowiki> 
I know Eleni mostly from IRC, also from her contributions in Bugs. I'm following her <nowiki>[[https://ufuntu.wordpress.com/|blog]]</nowiki> and reading all the helpful (and in deep analysis) posts she makes. She is always willing to help and I believe she would be a valuable addition in Ubuntu Community as Ubuntu Member. I fully support her application. 

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nick-athens30|NickTh,  "Ubuntu Member"]]</nowiki>
