{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 21.04 Beta (Hirsute Hippo) ==

Please see <nowiki>[[HirsuteHippo-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

'''THIS IS FOR A PRE-RELEASE VERSION OF UBUNTU STUDIO AND INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE. ADDITIONALLY, SINCE THIS IS A PRE-RELEASE, IT IS UNSUPPORTED SOFTWARE. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!'''

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Kubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HirsuteHippo/Beta/Kubuntu|Kubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

<<BR>>
== Getting Ubuntu Studio 21.04 Beta ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/21.04/release | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/20.10/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

=== Upgrading to Ubuntu Studio 21.04 Beta ===
'''Due to the change in desktop environment, direct upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 21.04 from versions prior to 20.10 are unsupported.''''

Direct upgrades from Ubuntu Studio 20.10 will be supported.

<<BR>>
== Changes for this release (compared to 20.04 LTS Focal Fossa) ==

=== Audio ===

* '''<nowiki>[[https://github.com/ovenwerks/studio-controls|Studio Controls]]</nowiki>''' is updated to version 2.1.4.
** Multiple bug fixes
** For more information about Ubuntu Studio Controls, see:
** https://github.com/ovenwerks/studio-controls
** The README
** The manpages for studio-controls, autojack and studio-system
* '''<nowiki>[[https://laborejo.org/agordejo/]]</nowiki>''', the improvement and front-end to New Session Manager, is included by default, version 0.2.1
* Ardour has been upgraded to version 6.6 and is a git snapshot of the upcoming 6.7. We hope to release 6.7 in time for final release..
* RaySession has been upgraded to version 0.10.1
* Hydrogen upgraded to 1.0.1
* Carla upgraded to 2.3-rc2 (awaiting final release from upstream author)
* jack-mixer upgraded to 15-1
* lsp-plugins upgraded to 1.1.29

=== Graphics ===

* Krita upgraded to version 4.4.3
* Darktable upgraded to 3.4.1
* Inkscape upgraded 1.0.2

=== Publishing ===

* Calibre upgraded to 5.11.0
* Scribus upgraded to 1.5.6.1

=== Video ===

* OBS Studio upgraded to 26.1.2
* KDEnlive upgraded to 20.12.3

<<BR>>
== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.83.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v20.12.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v4.4.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.10.22
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v6.6+git
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.5.6.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v3.4.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v1.0.2
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/carla | Carla]]</nowiki> v2.3-rc2
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/studio-controls | Studio Controls]]</nowiki> v2.1.4
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obs-studio | OBS Studio]]</nowiki> v26.1.2
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mypaint | MyPaint ]]</nowiki> v2.0.1

<<BR>>
== Known Problems ==

* Ubuntu Studio uses the same KDE Plasma desktop environment as the official Kubuntu release, and thus, may be affected by some of the same issues.  This is also true of the core packages of the mainline Ubuntu release.  You can see their release notes <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HirsuteHippo/Beta/Kubuntu|here]]</nowiki> (Kubuntu) and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HirsuteHippo/Beta/ReleaseNotes|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu)

<<BR>>
== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio 21.04 (Hirsute Hippo) will be supported for 9 months until January 2022.
'''Direct upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 21.04 from versions prior to 20.10 are not supported.'''

<<BR>>
== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
