{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Quick Contact Info ===

* '''Name:''' Harsh Singh 

* '''Nickname:''' ''loligager'', ''hisingh1'', or ''m_newton'', (almost everywhere)

* '''Location:''' Illinois, USA

* '''Launchpad:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hisingh1/|hisingh1]]</nowiki>

* '''Email:''' <nowiki>[[mailto:hisingh1@gmail.com|hisingh1@gmail.com]]</nowiki>

* '''IRC:''' ''m_newton'' on irc.ubuntu.com (I am not available during school hours, so if you must contact me, pop me an email!)

=== About Me ===
Hello to all! My name is Harsh Singh. I switched to Ubuntu when I saw Compiz Fusion on youtube. I was quite stunned by all the features. So, being a person that loves eyecandy, I decided to get ubuntu. Although i had a rough start due to many technical issues, I installed ubuntu with compiz fusion! Then, I learnt about git in compiz fusion. This led me further in the 'rabbit hole' as the saying goes! Currently I am running Hardy Heron with SSH, FTP,and LAMP. I have become an expert I installing Compiz fusion from git.

=== Contributions ===
Yet to do something, but i plan on getting involved soon! :)

=== Goals/Plans For The Future ===

I currently learning how the internet works and so forth. I plan on learning XHTML, PHP, and MySQL. I am currently trying to get my mail server up and running. 

As of long term goals: 
I want to be able to program scripts in perl or other languages that do useful things.
I want to make many amazing features in Compiz Fusion and be part of the developing society.
More over, I want to make a all in one script that gets everything from the fusion git repositories and compiles it for you in one command.

=== Thanks ===
I would like to thank many people that helped me learn and setup my own ssh,ftp, and LAMP server.

First and foremost I would like to thank: Nathan Handler
* Nathan was the one that introduced me to the real ubuntu. He showed me the features beyond Compiz and games.
* He even introduced me to SSH and many of the terminology that comes with ubuntu (Terminal for example)
* So without further adu, Hats off to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Cheater7|Nathan Handler]]</nowiki>

Also, If one wants to learn how to use a computer fast, One must get 'hands on' help!
My 'Hands on' help were provided by Amazing people on IRC

* '''Starnestommy:''' - the over all guide to Ubuntu, If you got a question, ask this guy! You will get help fast :)

* '''tj83:''' - Amazing skillz when it comes to ssh. 

* '''Jack_Sparrow:''' - sometimes a very strict admin, this guy know everything! (but be careful on how you ask it) :P

* '''PCcertified:''' - over all genius like Starnestommy!

Thanks for visiting my page!

  
 

----
CategoryHomepage
