{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== hL1sxa (aka Jason Jang) ==
안녕하세요?

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - other version:''' ----
제 이름은 장재준 (영문 Jason Jang)이며, 개인   홈 페이지'와 블로그'가 없는 O.M(또는 O.T)입니다.

---- /!\ '''Edit conflict - your version:''' ----
제 이름은 장재준 (영문 Jason Jang)이며, 개인   홈 페이지'와 블로그'가 없는 O.M(또는 O.T)입니다.

---- /!\ '''End of edit conflict''' ----
컴퓨터 관련 개발자가 아닌 보통의 사용자입니다.

* 전자우편주소는 hL1sxa(at)gmail(dot)com 을 주로 쓰며, Jason``Jang(at)msn(dot)com도 사용합니다.
** hl1sxa 는 아마추어 무선통신국(HAM)의 호출부호이며,
* messenger 로는 Jason``Jang(at)msn(dot)com 또는 ICQ UIN은 #24619404 입니다.
* 휴대전화는 +82-1o-E9EE-EBSI

My name is Jang jaejun (aka Jason JANG), I'm o.m(o.t) without personal homepage/blog and just common user with not developer relating computer.
* my e-mail address is hL1sxa(at)gmail(dot)com, also using jason(at)msn(dot)com.
** HL1SXA is a call sign of amature radion station from I.T.U.
* messenger named jasonjang(at)msn(dot)com and icq uin is #24619404
* my cellular phone no is +82-1o-E9EE-EBSI

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hl1sxa|hL1sxa]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| F2F18F1D, (F87FD055, 8C48EC9A)
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| ubuntuforums.org / <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-kr.org|ubuntu-kr.org(korean)]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| jasonjang @ irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-ko
|-
| '''Email''':
| hL1sxa(at)gmail(dot)com , jasonjang(at)msn(dot)com
|}

== About Me ==

== Team Memberships ==
2009~2012년 Contact of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KoreanTeam|Ubuntu-KR]]</nowiki>  Lo``Co team.

2013년 현재 Former Contact of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KoreanTeam|Ubuntu-KR]]</nowiki>  Lo``Co team.

member of L10n team, ...

== Current Project & Goals ==
Work on
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KoreanTeam]]</nowiki>
Translate with
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval/kor]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/kor]]</nowiki>
** http://loco.ubuntu.com
== Future Plans & Projects ==
Work on
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/czajkowski/locostats]]</nowiki>

== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ==

== Support ==

==== Below are draft ====
A personal home page can be used to publish data about yourself, such as:
*** who you are, what you do, what you like or dislike
*** your phone number, email address or other contact information
*** a photo of yourself
You also can use a personal home page to store information for yourself (and maybe also for others), such as:
*** your favourite links
*** your todo list
*** your notes
Keep in mind that a personal home page is usually public, anyone can read and edit it (and this is a good thing, see it as a means of communication with you). However, you can create protected sub-pages to restrict public access to some of your pages.

& https://wiki.ubuntu.com/yourname
----
CategoryHomepage
