{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== About me ===

My name is Hendrik, I am living in Hamburg/Germany. I am using Ubuntu mainly as platform for my work as Software developer. Actualy im working in the development of  embedded Linux devices. And i'm running my toolchains under jaunty. Mostly i am working on device drivers for specialized embedded hardware. Im mostly programming C/C++, but im also in application programming using Java and C#.
Also away from my work im using Ubuntu as OS of my first choice.

=== Community ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hendrik-lippek]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hlippek]]</nowiki>

=== Projects ===

My brand new project:
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SelfmadeGamingConsole]]</nowiki>

Translations:
* At first i started to translate ubuntu projects into german language
* Transaltions for ocPortal
* Translations for Freedom Toaster Software
* Translations for Bazaar Explorer

Group Memberships:
* Bugsquad <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bugsquad]]</nowiki>
* Launchpad-Users <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~launchpad-users]]</nowiki>

=== For the future.. ===

* spend some Time in bug-fixing
* Work on device Drivers for the Linux Kernel
* be envolved in GNOME development
* Work in S/W development of new Apps 

----
CategoryHomepage
