{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Schedule ==

* Friday, March 11th, 1700 UTC
* #ubuntu-meeting on FreeNode

== Need Resolution ==

* Kernel
** inotify vs. dnotify issues
** Additional i386 kernel on the CD?
* Desktop
** gnome-app-install .desktop database
** evince as default pdf/ps viewer ?
** gksu should grab the keyboard/mouse or not ?
* Documentation
** Yelp fixes needed for Hoary?
** Help topics organization
** Screenshot updates to reflect artwork changes?
** Content review
* Packaging toolchain
** http://bugs.debian.org/164595
* Seeds
** Which languages to ship on the install CD
** Which languages to preinstall on the live CD
* Archive integrity
** Test rebuild
** Uninstallable packages
** Germinate/archive resync
* Universe
** Freeze?
** Transition status
** reviewing help for the soon-to-be-MOTUs, "to review"-section on MOTUTodo grows longer and longer
* Translation?
* Warty upgrades
** Language pack installation
** ?
* Policy
** Security policy review vs. Warty (any new setuid executables, daemons, listeners, etc.)
* Installer
** language-support-* downloads
* Testing
** Installer test plan
** DVD testing
** Desktop test plan
** Server test plan?
* OpenOffice.org2
** Java/Help system
** Bug triage
** amd64

== Don't Forget ==

* Flush amd64 cloop image
* Update ISO volume labels, .disk/info, etc.

CategoryArchive
