{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Hoborg is the IRC bot of the Israeli Loco in #Ubuntu-IL.
Hoborg was built by <nowiki>[[Shualdon]]</nowiki> in a mission to make the LoCo meeting more controlled and organized.<<BR>>
Hoborg is under a continuous development, and it's open-sourced.<<BR>>
You can help develop Hoborg in its <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/hoborg|Lanchpad]]</nowiki>

== Loco Meeting ==

Hoborg has a few options that makes the LoCo meeting more organized:
* Logging
* Topic management
* Voting system
* Meeting BBCode summarization for the forums.

=== Logging ===
The meeting leader starts the meeting by typing '''!loggon'''. <<BR>>
When the meeting is finished, the meeting leader types '''!loggoff'''. <<BR>>
When the logging is ended, the bot creates a file containing the meeting summarization using BBCode.

=== Meeting Topics ===
After the logging has started, the meeting leader now can set topics by typing '''!topic <TOPIC>'''.<<BR>>
After the discussion on the topic has finish, the meeting leader can now close the topic by typing '''!decide <DECISION>'''.

=== Voting ===
After a topic has been set, sometimes there are topics that need to be voted on. The meeting leader can use two types of polls. However, the meeting leader can't open a new poll while there is a poll in process.

===== Yes/No/Avoid Poll =====
  This poll is perfect to see if the members are against, in favor or don't have an opinion on a certain topic.<<BR>>
  The meeting leader can set this poll by typing '''!pollon <TOPIC>''', and the members can vote by typing '''!yes''', '''!no''' or '''!avoid'''.<<BR>>
  After everyone voted, the meeting leader can close the poll by typing '''!polloff'''.

===== Multiple Options Poll =====
  If there is a need for a more complex poll, like choosing the next LoCo leader from a list of participants, the multiple option poll is due.<<BR>>
  The meeting leader can set this poll by typing '''!multipollon <NUM> <OPT1>,<OPT2>,<OPT3>...'''.<<BR>>
  <NUM> is the number of options a member can choose.<<BR>>
  <OPT#> are the options. There can be unlimited number of options, but they has to be separated with a ''comma''.<<BR>>
  The members can vote by typing '''!vote <#> <#> ...'''.<<BR>>
  <#> is the number of the option the member chose. A member can choose as much as the meeting leader set <NUM>, and has to be separated with a ''space''.<<BR>>
  After everyone voted, the meeting leader can close the poll by typing '''!multipolloff'''.
<<BR>>
For both poll types, the '''!score''' command can be used to view the current poll score.

== Other Functions ==

=== Admins ===
Admins have the privileges to manage a LoCo meeting, add/remove other admins and warn people.<<BR>>
In order to view the current admins, anyone can type '''!admin list'''.<<BR>>
In order to add a new admin, any other admin can type '''!admin add <USER>'''.<<BR>>
In order to remove an admin, any other admin can type '''!admin del <ADMIN>'''.<<BR>>

=== Warning ===
If there's a user that behave in a bad way, admins ca warn this user.<<BR>>
To warn a user, admins can type '''!warn add <USER>'''.<<BR>>
After 3 warnings, the user is banned and kicked from the channel.<<BR>>
In order to delete a warning of a certain user, an admin can type '''!warn del <USER>'''. <<BR>>
In order to clear all the warning of a certain user, an admin can type '''!warn clear <USER>'''.<<BR>>
An admin can also clear the whole warnings lost by typing '''!warn clear *'''.<<BR>>
In order to view the warnings list, anyone can type '''!warn list''' to view the whole list, or '''!warn list <USER>''' to view the number of warnings of a certain user.<<BR>>

== Commands Table ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Command'''
| '''Arguments'''
| '''Admin Only?'''
| '''Notes''
|-
| !logon
| None
| <:>*
| Starts a LoCo meeting
|-
| !logoff
| None
| <:>*
| Stops The meeting
|-
| !topic
| ''<TOPIC>''
| <:>*
| Sets a topic
|-
| !decide
| ''<DECISION>''
| <:>*
| Closes a topic with a decision
|-
| !pollon
| ''<TOPIC>''
| <:>*
| Starts a yes\no\avoid poll
|-
| !yes
| None
| 
| Vote Yes in a poll
|-
| !no
| None
| 
| Vote No in a poll
|-
| !avoid
| None
| 
| Vote Avoid in a poll
|-
| !polloff
| None
| <:>*
| Closes an opened poll
|-
| !multipollon
| ''<#> <OPT1>,<OPT2>...''
| <:>*
| Starts a multi-choice poll
|-
| !vote
| ''<OPT1> <OPT2> ...''
| 
| Vote on a multi-choice poll
|-
| !multipolloff
| None
| <:>*
| Close an opened multi-choice poll
|-
| !score
| None
| 
| View the scores of an active poll
|-
| <|3(>!admin
| add ''<USER>''
| <:>*
| Adds a new admin
|-
| del ''<ADMIN>''
| <:>*
| Deletes an admin
|-
| list
| 
| Returns the admins list
|-
| <|6(>!warn
| add ''<USER>''
| <:>*
| warns the users. after 3 warns the user is KBanned
|-
| del ''<USER>''
| <:>*
| Deletes 1 warning of the user
|-
| clear ''<USER>''
| <:>*
| Clears all the warning of the user
|-
| clear *
| <:>*
| Clears the whole warnings list
|-
| list
| 
| View the warnings list
|-
| list ''<USER>''
| 
| View the # of warning of the user
|-
| !help
| None
| 
| Gives a link to this page!
|-
| !quit
| None
| <:>*
| Quits the bot
|}
