{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
Hi. My name is Hollman Enciso. I'm a systems engineering at <nowiki>[[http://www.usbbog.edu.co|Universidad de San Buenaventura]]</nowiki>. I currently live in Bogota, Colombia. I've been a Linux User since 2005 (It all started when I attended the Operating Systems course offered at my university).

I was the Ubuntu Colombia community contact for 2 years <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co/|Colombian Team]]</nowiki> now I'm a member of this team. 

'''Some sites/contact info'''
* email: hollman@ubuntu.com
* Launchpad account: <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Proffesional profile : <nowiki>[[http://co.linkedin.com/in/hollmanenciso/en|linkedIN]]</nowiki>
* IRC: hollman on <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-co.com/node/09|irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki>
* Personal blog: <nowiki>[[http://www.hollmanenciso.com|saboteur]]</nowiki>
* Microblogin: <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/hollman|identi.ca - @hollman]]</nowiki>
                                <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/hollman|twitter - @hollman]]</nowiki>

=== Testimonials ===
* "I was among the original Ubuntu-co leads and passed the torch to a team of very active and visible team members. Hollman took a leading role very early and has incredible drive to get things done. He's very visible and active in local events, team administration, IRC, and generally speaking, getting Ubuntu known (and used) in Colombia. A great example for other Colombian ubunteros :)" - FabianRodriguez Oct.3 2008

* "Very supportive as admin, often available in IRC and helpful on the LoCo mailing list" - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/luis_lopez|luis_lopez]]</nowiki> Oct.14 2008

=== Teams ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">'''Team'''
| '''Site'''
|-
| Ubuntu Member
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu BugSquad
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bugsquad|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| 5 A Day participant
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~5-a-day-participants|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu Colombian Team
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu eeeUser
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-eeepc|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad beta tester
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~launchpad-beta-testers|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu spanish
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-es|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Team support U-co
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co-soporte-team|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Team web-site U-co
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co-sitioweb-team|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Team Ubuntu Bugsquad
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bugsquad|link]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

1. FLISOL 2007 installation team member
2. Organizer and installer of the I Day of Free Software University of San Buenaventura Bogota <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/4|site]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLUSB#|Gallery]]</nowiki>
2. Organizer and lecturer of the Day of free software SENA Bogota <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/13|site]]</nowiki><nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLSENABogot#|Gallery]]</nowiki>
3. Installation team member FLISOL 2008 <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/FLISOL2008#|Gallery]]</nowiki>
4. Organizer stand Ubuntu Colombia Team in FLISOL 2008
5. Member organizer of encounter and contests Ubuntu Colombia in Party Campus 2008 Bogota, Colombia <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/CampusPartyBogotColombia2008#|Gallery]]</nowiki>
6. Organizer and participant of the day of the mathematics and the computer science of the Military school FAC <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/16|link]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/DADeLaInformTicaYMatemTicasGIMFAYUCo|Gallery]]</nowiki>
7. Installation team member Day of free software the SENA, Bogota Colombia <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreInstallfestJornadaSLSENABogot|Gallery]]</nowiki> 
8. Answers in launchpad <nowiki>[[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|link]]</nowiki>
9. Bug's reports <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|link]]</nowiki>
10. Translations <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|link]]</nowiki>
11. Festival of Intrepid translation <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators/IntrepidSprint|link]]</nowiki>
12. Organizer Intrepid Release party Ubuntu Colombia <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/hollman.enciso/IntrepidReleasePartyUbuntuCo#|Gallery]]</nowiki>
13. Organizer and participant of the first <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-GlobalBugJam | Pre-Ubuntu Global Bug Jam]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreUbuntuGlobalBugJamColombia#|gallery]]</nowiki>
14. FLISOL 2009 installation team member <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/FLISoLColombia2009#|gallery]]</nowiki>

=== Objectives Ubuntu ===

1. Spread the free software to communities, friends, universities etc.
2. Create events of spread and creation of new communities in the world of the free software/Ubuntu.
3. Give more visibility to the Colombian LoCo team within the local communities of the free software.
4. Organize, with all that is in my reach, the communities where I participate.

=== Plans and vision for Ubuntu ===

1. Help in all the Teams, reporting bugs, translating, solving questions...
2. Participation and collaboration with all new users.
3. Join to the comunity of ubuntu my friends and all my partners.
4. Work and create new investment projects and of development.
6. Achieve and satisfy my goals and proposed objectives with the community.
 
=== Projects ===
==== Ubucon Colombia ====
The project of the Ubucon Colombia is to organize festival dedicated to the communities, users and companies that work with Ubuntu, where each one of the assistants can learn, listen, and share the experiences that have been lived with the OS, besides being able to count on a laboratory with Ubuntu equipment to invite and to do you practice with new users. --- '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/Ubucon2008|working on - Ubucon2008]]</nowiki>'''

==== Cogito Wireless ====
CogitoWireless is a communitarian wireless mesh network where the main objectives plows to serve like platform to help to diminish the digital breach of the Bogotan's people and help to construct a independent, natural, communitarian, sustainable and independent a network where personal projects, educative, cultural and social have welcome and they are possible to be spread of free way by the network; without restrictions of no type, without depending on organizations where the information are filtered and it restricts and without the present ones limits that they are in the Internet. CogitoWireless is a community that looks for the unification of the free technology in all the local sociocultural aspects, looking for to offer means of free communication. <nowiki>[[http://www.cogitowireless.net/|Web site]]</nowiki>

== En español ==
=== Presentación ===
Soy Hollman Enciso, Ingeniero de sistemas de la  Universidad de San Buenaventura, residente en Bogota Colombia, Usuario Linux desde el año 2005 gracias a clases de Sistemas Operativos de la Universidad.

Fui el contacto de la comunidad Ubuntu Colombia por 2 años <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co/|Colombian Team]]</nowiki> y actualmente soy miembro activo de dicha comunidad

'''Algunos sitios/contacto'''
* email: hollman@ubuntu.com
* Cuenta Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Perfil Profesional <nowiki>[[http://co.linkedin.com/in/hollmanenciso/es|LinkedIN]]</nowiki>
* IRC: hollman en <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-co.com/node/09|irc.freenode.net]]</nowiki>
* Blog personal: <nowiki>[[http://www.hollmanenciso.com|saboteur]]</nowiki>
* Microblogin: <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/hollman|identi.ca - @hollman]]</nowiki>
                <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/hollman|twitter - @hollman]]</nowiki>

=== Equipos ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#F1F1DD">'''Equipo'''
| '''Sitio'''
|-
| Miembro Ubuntu
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu BugSquad
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bugsquad|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Participante 5 A Day
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~5-a-day-participants|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu Colombian Team
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu eeeUser
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-eeepc|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Launchpad beta tester
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~launchpad-beta-testers|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Ubuntu español
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-es|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Equipo de soporte U-co
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co-soporte-team|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Equipo sitio web U-co
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-co-sitioweb-team|link]]</nowiki>
|-
| Equipo Ubuntu Bugsquad
| <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~bugsquad|link]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contribuciones ===

1. Instalador FLISOL 2007
2. Organizador e instalador de la I Jornada de Software Libre Universidad de San Buenaventura sede Bogota <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/4|site]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLUSB#|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>
2. Organizador y ponente jornada de software libre SENA Bogota <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/13|site]]</nowiki><nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/JornadaSLSENABogot#|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>
3. Instalador FLISOL 2008 <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/FLISOL2008#|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>
4. Organizador Stand Ubuntu Colombia FLISOL 2008
5. Organizador de encuentro y concursos miembros Ubuntu Colombia en Campus Party 2008 Bogota, Colombia <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/CampusPartyBogotColombia2008#|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>
6. Organizador y participante del día de las matemáticas y la informática de el colegio Militar FAC <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-co.com/node/16|link]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/DADeLaInformTicaYMatemTicasGIMFAYUCo|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki>
7. Instalador Jornada de software libre SENA, Bogota COlombia <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreInstallfestJornadaSLSENABogot|Galería de fotos]]</nowiki> 
8. Answers de launchpad <nowiki>[[https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|link]]</nowiki>
9. Reporte de bugs <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|link]]</nowiki>
10. Traducciones <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~hollman|link]]</nowiki>
11. Festival de traducción Intrepid <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuSpanishTranslators/IntrepidSprint|link]]</nowiki>
12. Organizador de la fiesta de lanzamiento Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/hollman.enciso/IntrepidReleasePartyUbuntuCo#|Galeria de fotos]]</nowiki>
13. Organizador y participe de el primer <nowiki>[[ColombianTeam-GlobalBugJam | Pre-Ubuntu Global Bug Jam]]</nowiki> Colombia <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/PreUbuntuGlobalBugJamColombia#|Galeria de fotos]]</nowiki>
14. Instalador FLISoL 2009 <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/noticias.ubuntu.colombia/FLISoLColombia2009#|Galeria de fotos]]</nowiki>

=== Objetivos con Ubuntu ===

1. Difundir el software libre a comunidades, grupo de amigos, conocidos etc..
2. Crear eventos de difusión y creación de nuevas comunidades de Software Libre/Ubuntu.
3. Posicionar el LoCo Ubuntu Colombia dentro de las comunidades de software Libre.
4. Organizar con lo que este a mi alcance las comunidades a las que participo y lidero.

=== Planes y visiones para Ubuntu ===

1. Contribuir en todos los teams en los que participo reportando busgs, traduciendo, respondiendo preguntas...
2. Participación y colaboración con todos los nuevos usuarios.
3. Incorporar a la comunidad ubuntera amigos y allegados.
4. Trabajar y crear nuevos proyectos investigativos y de desarrollo.
6. Cumplir y satisfacer mis metas y objetivos propuestos con la comunidad.
7. Organización del primer Ubucon Colombia 2008. (en proceso) <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ColombianTeam/Eventos/Ubucon2008|link]]</nowiki>
 
=== Proyectos ===
==== Ubucon Colombia ====
El proyecto del Ubucon Colombia es organizar festivales dedicado a las comunidades, usuarios y empresas que trabajen con Ubuntu, donde cada uno de los asistentes pueda aprender, escuchar, y compartir las experiencias que se han vivido con el OS, ademas de poder contar con un laboratorio con equipos Ubuntu para invitar y hacer practicas con nuevos usuarios.

==== Cogito Wireless ====
CogitoWireless es una red inalámbrica comunitaria cuyo objetivo es servir como plataforma para ayudar a disminuir la brecha digital del Bogotano y ayudar a la creación de una red independiente, natural, comunitaria, sostenible y autónoma donde los proyectos personales, educativos, culturales y sociales tengan acogida y se puedan difundir de manera libre por la red; sin restricciones de ningún tipo, sin depender de entidades donde se filtra y se restringe la información y sin los actuales limites que se encuentran en Internet.
CogitoWireless es una comunidad que busca la unificación de la tecnología libre en todos los aspectos socioculturales locales, buscando brindar un medio de libre comunicación. <nowiki>[[http://www.cogitowireless.net/|Sitio web]]</nowiki>

CategoryHomepage

CategoryColombianTeam
