{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This is one of two pages that hold templates for beginners team members. Comments on the pages have either been made a generic notes on what to put where, or more eleborate with ## which won't display unless you look at the source of a page. These are examples, if you want to make use of them, copy them to your own homepage and then edit them to your liking. Do not apply changes to this page, merely push edit, copy the source and cancel. Be creative, see other people's pages and make it your own by altering it. 

For more information on wiki editing see <nowiki>[[HelpOnEditing|here]]</nowiki>.
The alternative homepage style can be seen here <nowiki>[[HomepageBTTemplate2]]</nowiki>

'''Option 1: <nowiki>[[starcraft.man]]</nowiki>'''
-------

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| Your Launchpad ID (make a link)
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| Your GPG Public Key ID
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| Link to your forum account.
|-
| '''IRC''':
| List your registered nicks you use on IRC and on what networks
|-
| '''Email''':
| your email address
|}

=== About Me ===
Describe yourself. What do you do in your spare time, what kind of computer and linux experience do you have? Tell as much as you feel comfortable, we don't need to know exactly where you live, we don't do stalking. Maybe you want to sub divide it into sections if it gets long.

=== Team Memberships ===
{*} List memberships you have or are apprenticing in (i.e. if your a padawan in Beginners Team).
* Bullets are good for lists.
** Indent more and they change.

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
What are you planning on doing in imediate and longer future? Doesn't have to all have to do with linux, looking at a degree or certification? Looking for membership to a team? 

==== Current Project & Goals ====
 {*} Some people like to list short term goals.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
Note: Often people like to list their major contributions, so people know the good work they've done. When you apply for membership to restricted teams, the senior members usually like knowing what you've done before. In this example, several subsections exist. The more work you do, the longer this section will become.

==== Support ====
 {*} On Ubuntu Forums (link to account) as, I do....

==== Forum Guides: ====
 {*} I've written X guides, and link to them.

==== Wiki ====
I've edited and made contributions to following pages...
 {*} Link to Wiki page, people can see page history you don't need to point out exactly what edits you made.

== Testimonials ==

----
CategoryHomepage
