{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello, I am Hoehyeong Jung, an l10n team admin of <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo]]</nowiki>(2023.05.~).

I first used Ubuntu in 2010 as Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, and started to participate in <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo]]</nowiki> forum and offline meetings. I was only 14 years old then so finding tips & tricks about Ubuntu in my native language helped a lot steppig into Ubuntu ecosystem. Participating in UbuCon Asia 2022 as a participant made me interested about being an organizer.

As an l10n team organizer, I want to motivate more people to be intrerested in Ubuntu by providing optimal user experience for Korean natives.

I studied for Computer Engineering in <nowiki>[[https://jnu.ac.kr|Chonnam National University]]</nowiki> (2015.03 ~ 2022.08) and working as DevOps engineer in Seoul.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email (Personal)
| commaniakr@gmail.com
|-
| Email (LoCo)
| hothead.jung@ubuntu-kr.org
|-
| Launchpad
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hothead-jung|hothead-jung]]</nowiki>
|-
| Github
| <nowiki>[[https://github.com/hotheadfactory/|hotheadfactory]]</nowiki>
|-
| IRC - libera.chat
| hothead-jung
|-
| Website
| https://hotheadfactory.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

My contributions are mainly related to l10n (launchpad / Weblate) and planning events about l10n.

* Contributing for translation in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-ko|Ubuntu Korean Translators]]</nowiki> group (2017 ~ Current)
** 18,094 Rosetta Karma, ranking #14 in Top Ubuntu Contributors
* Contributing for Korean translation of GitLab in <nowiki>[[https://translate.gitlab.com/|Crowdin]]</nowiki> (2022 ~ Current)

* l10n team admin of <nowiki>[[KoreanTeam|Ubuntu Korean LoCo]]</nowiki>(2023.05 ~ Current)
** assisting l10n team owner, translating strings, suggesting others' translations
** planning <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu-kr.org/t/5-13/48717/8|Ubuntu Translation Workshop]]</nowiki> in Seoul, 13th May 2023

=== Future Goals ===
* Continue to organize Korean LoCo
** Following release schedule of Ubuntu 23.10
** refining old translations, finding errors
** translating new version of Ubuntu CoC
** planning more translation workshop to attract more contributors

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Hoehyeong has been contributing to Ubuntu Korean translation for about 5 years. Start contributing to translation isn't difficult but it's difficult to continue and sustain contribution as it's something that can get board easily. But he's been sustaining his contribution actively by now. And today, As one of Korean l10n team admin, he's not only managing the translation quaility well but also good at on-boarding new comers to contribute on translation. I'm looking forward to see what he'll gonna do as on of Korean l10n team admin and also as one of Ubuntu Member :) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ybhan]]</nowiki> 
I first met him at Ubuntu Korean L10n Translation Workshop in May 2023. It was his face-to-face contribution after being a organizer of Korean LoCo, L10n Team Admin in 2023. At there, I felt his high enthusiasm about Ubuntu ecosystem at a glance, from guiding workshop beginners how to use Launchpad, do translations and trouble-shoot chores. As <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ybhan]]</nowiki> said, continuing contribution for Korean translation about Ubuntu is a very hard activity in Korea, I think. He is fully deserved to get board for his effort to sustaining Ubuntu localization in Korean. It'll encourage him to continue contribution to Ubuntu ecosystem with other translation contributors in Korea. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mscho7969]]</nowiki> 
I remember Hoe-hyeong Jung was a middle school student in the first time when I was a leader of Ubuntu Korea community. He had  interested and widened his Ubuntu contribution step by step, currently he became one of organizer of Korea community. To keep maintaining and developing local community, I think one of the most needed resource is gathering people(organizer) who are keep intersted about Ubuntu and open source community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jang0913]]</nowiki> 