{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== The Ubuntu Hour ==
The idea behind Ubuntu Hour is '''public'''! We are trying to promote Ubuntu to the general public and getting them wondering what else is out there.

Find one near you in the list of <nowiki>[[https://loco.ubuntu.com/events/|Ubuntu Events]]</nowiki>

=== How ===
* Head over to a public place (like a local coffee shop, etc) where you'll hang out for 1 hr. every week or every other week, you decide.
* Wear something with the Ubuntu logo or have a visible Ubuntu sticker on your laptop (if you bring one).
* When/if you show up, you agree to the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>.
* Anyone can start an Ubuntu Hour, anywhere, anytime.
* Remember this is a social event, be approachable!

Keep it simple. Don't make this "How" section any longer than it needs to be. Just add your Ubutu Hour below, including location (address+city), day of week + hour, and your name, maybe a link.

Don't forget to document!  Let your LoCo know about your event, blog about it, write in a mailing list, or any other way you can. If you are a team contact, make sure your event is <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/|listed in the LoCo directory]]</nowiki>.

note: people may want to support Free and Open by using <nowiki>[[http://www.openstreetmap.org/|OpenStreetMap]]</nowiki> for their map locations. (some areas are well supported and others are not)

== Africa ==
=== Egypt ===
* Alexandria, Sidi Gaber <<BR>> Thursday 28 Oct at 6:00 pm UTC+2 - <nowiki>[[http://goo.gl/maps/JA51|Sa3a L2lbak Cafe]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~bahaa2008|bahaa2008]]</nowiki>

* Cairo, Abbas el Akad <<BR>> Friday, March 18 · 6:00pm - 9:00 pm 28 October at 06:00 pm UTC+2 · 29 July at 6:00 pm- <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF&msa=0&msid=214525113175300627439.00049d5dd2fc7566395e3|Aswan Cafe]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[ |Ahmed Alngm]]</nowiki>

=== South Africa ===
* Stellenbosch, Western Cape<<BR>>Saturday 6 Nov at 12:30 am UTC+2  - <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/260/detail/|Ginos]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~maiatoday|maiatoday]]</nowiki>

== America ==
=== Canada ===
==== Quebec ====
* Montréal, QC, Canada<<BR>>Mondays, 13h to 17h @ UQAM (Café Fractal or AGEEI (SH-A320))
* Chicoutimi, QC, Canada<<BR>>Wednesdays, noon @ <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/247/detail/|Café Cambio]]</nowiki> 405, rue Racine Est - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~eleduc|Eric Leduc]]</nowiki>
==== Ontario ====
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo|Kitchener, ON, Canada]]</nowiki><<BR>>First Thursday of the month, 7:00pm at various locations - <nowiki>[[chaslinux|Charles McColm]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/Toronto|Toronto, ON, Canada]]</nowiki><<BR>>Just getting started, no regular schedule yet. Check the Check the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu Canada LoCo Portal]]</nowiki> for up-to-date events - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aruna-hewapathirane|Aruna Hewapathirane]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanadianTeam/KitchenerWaterloo|Waterloo, ON, Canada]]</nowiki><<BR>>Currently on hiatus. Check the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-ca/|Ubuntu Canada LoCo Portal]]</nowiki> for up-to-date events  - <nowiki>[[dscassel|Darcy Casselman]]</nowiki> or BobJonkman

=== USA ===
==== Midwest ====
** Madison, Wisconsin<<BR>>Second Saturday of the month, 1:00 PM CST @ <nowiki>[[http://sundancecinemas.com/madison.html|Sundance Cinemas]]</nowiki>, Hilldale Mall
==== South ====
* Douglasville, Georgia<<BR>>Third Saturday of each month, 10am, Shepherd of the Hills United Methodist Church, <nowiki>[[http://www.sothumc.net]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:joel-k|Joel Kilthau]]</nowiki>
* Winston-Salem, North Carolina<<BR>>Second Saturday of the month, 11:00 AM EST @ <nowiki>[[http://www.krankiescoffee.com|Krankies Coffee]]</nowiki>, 211 East Third Street, - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cox.jmark|markthecarp]]</nowiki>
* Orlando, Florida<<BR>> Keep an eye on the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-us-florida/events|Florida LoCo Events Page]]</nowiki> for upcoming Ubuntu Hours in Orlando. <nowiki>[[ChristopherJohnston|Chris Johnston]]</nowiki>
* Galax, Virginia<<BR>>Fridays at Noon (EDT) @ <nowiki>[[http://ls.net/content/ubuntu-hour|LSNet]]</nowiki>, 115 1/2 W Grayson St (Upstairs over the Vietnam Vets), - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:tarvid|Jim Tarvid]]</nowiki>
* Hampton Roads, Virginia<<BR>>Check the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/virginiateam/events|Virginia LoCo Events Page]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu Hours in Hamptonhttp://www.openstreetmap.org/?minlon=-123.030899&minlat=44.951955&maxlon=-123.030799&maxlat=44.952055 Roads (Newport News, Hampton, Norfolk, Virginia Beach). <nowiki>[[jledbetter|Jessica Ledbetter]]</nowiki>
==== West Coast ====
* Salem, Oregon - 6PM every Friday @ Broadway Commons Coffeehouse 1300 Broadway St NE, Salem, OR 97301, be sure tp bring money to buy something for the restriction they placed. Changes in schedule or place will be posted on the mailing list here: ubuntu-us-or@lists.ubuntu.com
* '''California''': See: '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CaliforniaTeam/Projects/UbuntuHours#Current_Ubuntu_Hours|California Team: Current Ubuntu Hours]]</nowiki>'''.
* Tempe Arizona - 1st and 4nd Thursdays of the month from 7-9PM at Extreme Bean 1707 E. Southern Ave. Tempe, AZ 85282A. <nowiki>[[mailto:toddc@azloco.com|Email Toddc]]</nowiki> with any questions. More location info on <nowiki>[[http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28|AZLOCO calendar]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://www.xtremebeancoffee.com|Extreme bean]]</nowiki>
* Sierra Vista Arizona - 2nd Thursday of the month from 6-7PM at Schlotzsky's Cafe, 3900 E. FRY BLVD., Sierra Vista, AZ, USA ,85635 <nowiki>[[mailto:majb@azloco.com|Email MajB]]</nowiki> with any questions. More location info on <nowiki>[[http://www.azloco.org/?q=node/28|AZLOCO calendar]]</nowiki>
* Burien, Washington Ubuntu Hour - <nowiki>[[WashingtonTeam-Events-UbuntuHour |Washington Team]]</nowiki> meets at Burien Press Coffee Shop; 423 SW 152nd Street, - Ongoing Thursdays at 4:30ish. <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-us-wa@lists.ubuntu.com|Email]]</nowiki> with any questions. More location info on <nowiki>[[http://www.yelp.com/biz/burien-press-seattle|yelp]]</nowiki>
==== Elsewhere (to be divided as more sign up) ====
* Tulsa, Oklahoma<<BR>>First Wednesday of the Month, 7:30 PM @ <nowiki>[[ http:--maps.google.com-maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=1502+E+15th+St,+Tulsa,+OK%E2%80%8E&sll=36.140786,-95.972528&sspn=0,359.988585&ie=UTF8&ll=36.140613,-95.971799&spn=0.005632,0.005708&z=17&iwloc=addr&layer=c&cbll=36.140608,-95.971689&panoid=QiHWkGzsZjdKOhnmfNRZfQ&cbp=12,189.23278168336392,,0,4.774244525307524 |Coffee House On Cherry Street]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[duanedesign|duanedesign]]</nowiki>
* District of Columbia<<BR>>Every Saturday, 4:00PM @ <nowiki>[[http://toidc.com/|Taste of India]]</nowiki>, Woodley Park Metro - <nowiki>[[BCurtisWX|BCurtisWX]]</nowiki>

=== México ===
* Mexico city
 Third saturday of the month, 5:00 PM at Cafe vision, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntumexico.org/node/4953|http://ubuntumexico.org/node/4953]]</nowiki>

=== Brazil ===
* São Paulo, SP
 First Thursday of the month, 7:00 PM at <nowiki>[[ http:--maps.google.com.br-maps?f=q&source=embed&hl=pt-BR&geocode=&q=Av.+Prof.+Almeida+Prado+-+S%C3%A3o+Paulo+-+SP&sll=-12.039321,-50.449219&sspn=72.69676,173.144531&ie=UTF8&hq=&hnear=Av.+Prof.+Almeida+Prado+-+Butant%C3%A3,+S%C3%A3o+Paulo,+05508-070&ll=-23.554026,-46.73264&spn=0.01666,0.033023&z=16 | Universidade de São Paulo ]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kemelzaidan|Legendario]]</nowiki>

== Asia ==
=== Myanmar ===
* Yangon,YGN <<BR>> Sun, 20 Nov. 2011 00:00 - 16:30 UTC at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Myanmar/652/detail/ | Asian Fame Media Group Building,Yangon.]]</nowiki>
* Mandalay,MDY <<BR>> Sun, 04 Dec. 2011 10:30 - 17:00 UTC at <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/Myanmar/653/detail/ | Mandalay]]</nowiki>.

=== Philippines ===
* Location: Quezon City or Mandaluyong City Specific venue will be announced on FB group and forums, <<BR>> Dates will fall on Saturday and Sunday (to be announce),  17:00-19:00 PHT ~ <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/~kidsodateless | Efren Montales Jr. ]]</nowiki>

== Europe ==
=== Hungary ===
Announcements and information: https://ubuntu.hu (Hungarian)
** Budapest <<BR>>Every 3rd Friday of the month, 6PM<<BR>>Event specific details available here: https://ubuntu.hu/blog/category/hirek-esemenyek
** Miskolc <<BR>>Every 2nd Friday of the month, 6PM<<BR>>Otthonka, Miskolc, Horváth Lajos u. 7.
=== Ireland ===
** Dublin <<BR>> Varied, see announcements.
=== France ===
“ Pause Ubuntu ” are announced on <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-fr/events|the LoCo event page]]</nowiki> and on microblogs <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/ubuntufranim/|@ubuntuFrAnim]]</nowiki> 
** Paris <<BR>> A dedicaced topic is located in the event forum : http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=652521
** Lyon <<BR>> A news page list all incoming event : http://www.ubuntu-lyon.org/?page=News
