{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Wednesday, 14 March 7 PM - Meetup was at Ziggy's Healthy Grill where is was decided that there was very little "geek worthy" food but good concept if we decide to reserve the back room for future events.   In attendance were Ernesto, Diego, John, Lee (w/Ada?) and myself Dinda/Belinda.  We identified a number of potential projects that folks are interested in:  installfests, hardware testing (Directron), business networking, marketing.  Also brainstormed on ways to grow the group:  newspaper announcements, high profile bloggers/writers, flyers at local campuses, etc..  We set the date and time for the next meeting for Wednesday 18 April and will default to Ziggy's unless we can come up with a better place.  Which brings us to our "To Do" list for the next meeting.

* Belinda - identify places to send out next meeting announcement: Houston Chronicle, Business Journal, Houston Press, other local community newspapers and online places.  Folks can send me listing when you find them, think of others. I'm also going to look more into getting resources from the US Teams Project within the Ubuntu Community.  They can give us mentoring help, get our mailing list moved to an "*****@ubuntu.com"  CDs stickers and other stuff.

* John - is going to tackle some marketing information, trying to put together or identify decision-maker level information that folks can use to help them learn about Ubuntu.  Others will send links/info as we get them.

* Lee - will contact John Little, someone who's blog we found last night while searching for "ubuntu houston" on google.  Will also begin research for a hardware testing party at Directron (sp?) on Harwin.  (don't for get to send us the African Architect story.)

* Diego - try to find a good date/event for a possible installfest at Rice

* Ernesto - ack, had lots of good ideas but I'm blanking on specifics at the moment!  Also, would like a place with cheaper beer for our next meeting ;-)  I second that idea. Sherlocks and Baker Street Pub have happy hour till 9.

''content from http://lists.revx.runyaga.com/pipermail/ubuntu-houston/2007-March/000055.html''
