{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Time and Place ==
* 18 April 2007 at 7:00 PM
* Freebirds World Burrito, 3745 Greenbriar

== Misc ==
* Someone please bring a '''camera'''
** JustinSunseri -- I'll bring a camera
== Agenda ==
In no particular order...

* With the Feisty release only one day away, we should present some of the New Features in Feisty.
** LeeSharp said "I have been using it, but may not be the best choice [to present].  I will if no one else stands up."
** JustinSunseri - I have been using feisty for a while now and I would be happy to discuss what I have noticed about Fiesty.
* See if there is interest in a Feisty Release Party
** would need planning - locations, times, etc.

* Discuss the Hardware Testing at Directron idea
** LeeSharp: any updates?

* Discuss the future How to Sell Ubuntu presentation
** JohnStautner: any updates?

* Team logo
** Some possible logos have been placed on the HoustonTeam page. We should review these and decide whether we want to adopt one.

* Plan agenda and set date for May meeting

== Meeting Notes, etc ==
* We agreed to adopt JohnLittle's logo. Belinda said she'd make shirts for next time.
* Pics: http://www.richardyoo.com/blog/2007/04/18/ubuntu-houston/
* Freebirds was too loud!
* Perhaps we should have name tags at the next meeting with IRC nicks :)
* We talked about the Directron idea. It looks like there's a lot of interest in doing this soon.
** Justin Sunseri posted a message to the mailing list (April 18 "Laptop Testing Checklist") regarding how to evaluate hardware.
