{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


In order to have ThunderBird read the contents of your /var/mail folder, you need to create a symbolic link to it.

this can be done graphically or via command line.

* *** Command Line ****

Step 1.) Open a terminal

Step 2.) Navigate to the location you wish to have the folder displayed
        ie cd ~/.mozilla-thunderbird/[unique hexidecimal number].default/Mail/Local\ Folders/
****** ***NOTE**** Your system will have a different [].default folder. Tab-Autocomplete is very helpful. 

Step 3.) Type ln -s /var/mail/[user-account] 
           This will create a symbolic link for the folder [user-account] in your Local Folder directory in ThunderBird 
***** ***Option**** If you want the folder to be displayed with a different name, for example your [user-account]=JoeSnuffy and you want the folder in ThunderBird to say "System" (or something similar), simply add the new folder name at the end of the above command (ie ln -s /var/mail/JoeSnuffy System )

Step 4.) Open or Restart ThunderBird.

* *** Graphically ****

Step 1.) Open your prefered file browser (Natilus, Thunar, Konkorer, Rox-filer, etc)

Step 2.) Navigate to /var/mail/

Step 3.) Open a second instance of your prefered file browser (you may need to enable "Show hidden files" for your file browser

Step 4.) Navigate into the .mozilla-thunderbird folder of your home directory until you get to the sub-directory you want to hold your local mail

Step 5.) Use the "create symbolic link" method for your file browser (usually right-click, drag, create link) from the first instance to the second instance.

Step 6.) Open or Restart ThunderBird.

vidd
