{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#f1f1ed" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="margin:0pt 0pt 1em 1em;float:right;font-size:0.9em;  "style="padding:0.5em;">
|}

== Introduction ==
The target of this page is to collect HP OEM PC information that could be a reference for the end-users.

=== Knowledge Base ===
Knowledge or tips for HP OEM PC specifically.

=== Known generic issues ===

==== Hotkey ====

<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/oem-priority/+bug/1852071|LP:#1852071 Brightness function keys works as microphone mute function keys]]</nowiki>

'''Symptoms:''' Press brightness function keys but work as micronphone mute function

'''Scenarios of influence:''' System boots to Window and then reboot to Ubuntu

1. Either the machine installed Windows in the past (e.g. pre-load Windows in factory) and reinstall to Ubuntu.

2. Dual boot to Windows and then switching to Ubuntu.

3. Any other scenarios if system did pre-loaded using Windows.

'''Root cause:''' HP has a Windows application (which using to control hotkey function) will configure EC (Embedded Controller) to something like "Windows mode" which will cause EC send different keycode.

'''Workaround:''' Pressing power button roughly over 20 seconds to make EC be reset to default mode.

'''Properly Solution:''' HP provides the HP hotkey specification for implementing it under Linux.
