{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Vipeak series hydraulic cone crusher get to world advanced level,is de s igned and made through absorbing world advanced crushing technology.It is widely used in meta llurgical,aggregate,building material industries,it is suitable for crushing varies of hard and above mid hard ores and rocks. 
 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage:
1、 provide reasonable product selection and design。
2、scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements，strict production 。process
3、 on time delivery 。 
 
　　 
Features and Benefits: 
■Reasonable structure,advanced crushing principle and technical data,reliable work and low cost.
■ Strong crushing ability,high efficiency productibity,high capacity.
■ Hydraulic system is reliable,provide safe and effective overload protection.
■ Types of crushing cabity are for wide range of product size requirement.
■ Use hydraulic adjustment and hydraulic clean cavity setting,much increase automation. 

Optimized cavity and higher output
Vipeak series hydraulic cone crusher is a novel cone crusher developed by engineers of vipeak company with reference to advantages of the most reliable and advanced cone crusher in the world. Through much theoretic analysis and practice examination , engineers in Vipeak designed this hydraulic cone crusher on the basis of advantages and disadvantages of different kinds of cone crusher. Its output is high and its energy consumption is low. Under the same diameters of mantle, the crushing stroke is longer and the crushing ration is bigger. Laminated crushing function can be fully realized with full load, which can ensure reliable composition and good shape of final sizes.

http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com  
http://www.vipeakmill.com
