{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== My server configuration ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Hardware:
| HP DL140 G3
|-
| CPU:
| Intel Xeon 5130 2.0Ghz Dual Core
|-
| RAM:
| 2GB
|-
| Disks:
| 2x160GB SATA 7200RPM
|}

==== Hardware preparation for install ====
* Set HD to RAID configuration for non-hot-plug SATA drives:<<BR>>
  a. Turn on the monitor and the server. If the server is already turned on, save your data and close all open applications, then restart the server.
  a. During POST, press F10 to launch the PhoenixBIOS Setup Utility.<<BR>>  ~-If you fail to press F10 before POST is completed, you will need to restart the server.-~
  a. In the Setup Utility screen, click the Advanced menu tab.
  a. Select the Advanced Chipset Control field.
  a. Select the SATA Controller Mode Option field, then press the plus (+) or minus (-) key to set the field value to Enhanced.
  a. Select the SATA RAID Enable field, then press the plus (+) or minus (-) key to set the field value to Enabled.
  a. Press F10, then select Yes to save the changes you made and close the Setup Utility. The system automatically reboots.<<BR>>  You will be prompted to enter the HP Embedded SATA Setup Utility.
  a. Press F8 to access the HP Embedded SATA Setup Utility.
  a. In the Option menu box, select Array Configuration Utility.
  a. In the Main Menu box, select Configure Drives.
  a. Select the hard drives you want to include in the RAID setup, then press Enter. A warning message appears.
  a. Type Yes then press Enter. The selected drives will be configured with array information.
  a. After the completing the initial drive configuration, select Create Arrays in the Main Menu.
  a. Select the hard drives you want to include in the array, then press Enter.
  a. In the Array Properties box, set the values for the RAID properties. To view possible options for each property, select a property, then press F1.
  a. Select Done, then press Enter. The system automatically configures the RAID level, erasing all existing data on the hard drives.
  a. Once the configuration process is complete, press Esc to close the HP Embedded SATA Setup Utility.
  a. In the Exit Utility prompt, select Yes, then press Enter.
  The system will automatically reboot and initialize the created array.

  ~-Pasted from http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bc/docs/support/SupportManual/c00795602/c00795602.pdf -~

So now I have a hardware SATA RAID array, right? Right.
Wrong.
There is no support currently (as of 2007-02-19) for HP's SATA RAID array controller, so a software RAID will be configured later, during the installation.

Now, boot the Ubuntu Desktop 6.10 AMD64 Edgy Eft LiveCD - it'll kernel panic quite a bit. The x86 version boots well, but we want the advantages of a 64-bit system for virtualization of other 64-bit systems.<<BR>>
* To resolve the Kernel panic, disable the "8042 Keyboard Emulation" mode in BIOS: <<BR>>
  a. Press F10 to enter BIOS setup when "press F10 for BIOS setup" is displayed.
  a. Select "Advanced."
  a. Select "8042 Emulation Support."
  a. Select "Disable."
  a. Press F10 to Save and Exit BIOS Setup.

  ~-Pasted from http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?lang=en&cc=us&objectID=c00779523&jumpid=reg_R1002_USEN -~

More to come soon...

----
HardwareSupportMachinesServersHp
----
CategoryLookMergeDelete
