{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


===== Works =====
* AutomatedTestsForAnjuta
* AnatomyOfATestCase

===== Quality Assurance =====
* Functionalities tests
* Unit testing on the API
* Documentation strings testing :
** Are all documentation strings present ?
** Are they useful ?
** Are there broken links?
** Tooltips
* GUI testing :
** Does the program conforms to <nowiki>[[httpp:--library.gnome.org-devel-hig-book-stable- | Gnome Human Interface Guidelines ]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/UsabilityProject | Visual Design]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ http:--en.wikipedia.org-wiki-Code_review | Code Review]]</nowiki>

===== Why GNU/LDTP ? =====
* Very powerfull design. <todo: explain why this design is so powerful>

* Powerfull technological choices :
** User interface is describe by a language. <todo: explain why this gives power>
** Test reports are XML documents.
   This gives us the ability to :
** Automatically send the test report to a central server which will process the test report after authenticating the user.
** Many other things <todo: list here those other things>

===== Some Links about the science of software testing =====

* <nowiki>[[https://code.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-desktop-testing]]</nowiki> 
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Automation/Desktop/
* http://live.gnome.org/TestingUsingAtSpi
* http://live.gnome.org/DesktopTesting
* https://launchpad.net/gnome-desktop-testing
* http://launchpad.net/gnome-desktop-testing/trunk/0.1/+download/gnome-desktop-testing.tar.gz
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_testing
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_review
* <nowiki>[[http://safsdev.sf.net/ | Software Automation Framework Support]]</nowiki>
* http://safsdev.sourceforge.net/DataDrivenTestAutomationFrameworks.htm#TheApplicationMap
* <nowiki>[[https://litmus.mozilla.org | Mozilla Litmus]]</nowiki>
* AutomatedProblemReports
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/pqm | Patch Queue Manager (PQM)]]</nowiki>
...

----
CategoryHomepage
