{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Here is a simple guide on how to run a meeting for a team in the Ubuntu
Community:

The first step was done by me which is to create a Doodle poll to
figure out what time and day for the meeting to take place and send out
the link to the poll via a mailing-list e-mail (as in one to the list). Make sure the timezone is UTC unless it's a local event/meeting in your
LoCo. Make sure you at at least give a three to four week notice of the
date of the first suggested day and make sure you close the poll a week
before the meeting date that is the most popular even when it's the
first suggested day (and time).

Create an agenda as a sub-page of your team's wiki pages.  Or a
sub-page of the meetings sub-page. Also you need to add it to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fridge/Calendar|Fringe Calendar]]</nowiki>.

When you have the date and time set, send out an e-mail to the
mailing-list about when the meeting will be.

About a week down to two days before the meeting, send out a reminder
of the meeting to list.

On the day of the meeting, come about ten (10) minutes before the
meeting to an hour (if you can) to the team's IRC channel and the
meeting grounds channel. For example, for our team it would be
should announce that the meeting is starting in whatever time is left
before the meeting and where.

When it's time for the meeting to start, in #ubuntu-meeting-2 (or
Scientists June 2014 Meeting. The topic should change in #ubuntu-meeting
and #ubuntu-meeting-2, if the bot is there.  If not, you can still run
the meeting with the same commands as the bot's.  This command will
allow the bot to log the meeting.  Also, the bot will PM you the
commands and give you a wiki page to look at if you need help in the
channel.

After that, you should ask, "who is all for the <team's name>
meeting".  Many people (in many channels) are either lurking (as in they
are at their keyboard doing something else) or away from he keyboard.
Doing is will allow you know who is here for the meetings.

If you have any other chairs, add them via this command #chair
<nick>.  For example, the other chair could the co-host of the meeting. Chairs are allowed to command the bot. 

Most meetings will follow the agenda.  #topic <item> tell the meeting
members what the topic is and the bot will log it.  When you are done
with a topic, ask if you can move on to the next one.

If there is a item that needs to be done after the meeting, use the

Most meetings will end the "Any Other Business (AOB)" item, and
after you ask if there is other things to be brought up.  If not, you
can #endmeeting to end the meeting.  If the bot is in the channel, it
will tell you where the logs are.  Do me a favor and e-mail me that link
after the meeting.
