{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In the Chair: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/belkinsa|Svetlana Belkin, Point of Contact]]</nowiki>
----
When: June 21, 2014 at 7 PM EST
Location: #ubuntu-us-oh on irc.freenode.net
----
Meetingology: Not present

-------

Business to discuss:

{*} OLF Planning:

1. Updates by Svetlana on the matter

1. Will you be able to commit to hold Ubucon at the Ohio LinuxFest this year?

1. Does team Ohio need our help in reaching out to other state locos for help?

1. Do you argee to hold some desktop basic content?  If needed,  we can provide the speakers for this component.

1. Are you comfortable to allow the Ohio LinuxFest to do publicity stating that Ubucon will return and include desktop basic content as part of schedule? 
