{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hey there.

Well, what can I put on this wiki page. Well, to start off, as you've gathered, my name is Hugh Jacobs. I am a 24 (closing on 25) year old male, living in jozi (Johannesburg for you non-South-Africans). I work full-time as a web application developer, and spend most of my free time either chilling with friend or messing around with my box.

I am part of the South African LoCo team, mainly so that I can help spread the popularity of Ubuntu in South Africa. I strongly believe that Ubuntu can certainly help with many economical and social struggles that face South Africa. Now, the economical benefit is slightly more obvious, however, the social aspect is less obvious but still very important.

One quick example is rural schools. Schools located in rural areas (in South Africa) often have students arriving from far distant places, and often speaking different languages. Now, if we could just put Ubuntu, or even Edubuntu into those schools, those language barriers can be broken down, even if just a little bit.

That's why I do more than advocate Ubuntu, I advocate being a translator. As South Africans, it's important for us not to just find people to fill up our loco team, but to also try influence some people into becoming translators. I even challenge a few to learn a new language just so that they can start translating in other languages.

Anyways, I'm just rambling on. I don't know. Guess I'll put on more relevant information when I have time.
Laters.

P.S. You can find me on http://ubuntuforums.org/ under the username Circus-Killer
----
CategoryHomepage
