{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Hui Wang, apply for the upload rights for the packages pulseaudio, alsa-lib, alsa-ucm-conf, alsa-utils, alsa-tools and alsa-topology-conf.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Hui Wang (aka hwang4)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~hui.wang
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hui.wang
|}

== Who I am ==
I have been working in the Canonical Beijing office as a kernel hwe team member for 8+ years.

== My Ubuntu story ==
In 2008, It was my first time to work under Ubuntu Linux, as a WindRiver Linux BSP developer at that time, I found the Ubunut Linux is the best distribution and most of my workmates installed Ubuntu Linux. From then on, the Ubuntu Linux is the only distribution I use in my daily life and work. In 2013, I joined the Canonical hwe team, and my major work is fixing the kernel driver issues and audio stack issues for Ubuntu Linux. 

=== My involvement ===
Fix the audio issues in the kernel, alsa-lib, alsa-ucm-conf, pulseaudio and gnome

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

Before the package of "alsa driver daily build" retired, I maintained this package for a while: https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev/+archive/ubuntu/alsa-daily/+packages

Maintained the soundwire-dkms in the pc-oem-dkms: https://launchpad.net/~canonical-hwe-team/+archive/ubuntu/pc-oem-dkms/+packages

Contribute the audio fix for kernel: https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/log/?h=v5.15-rc3&qt=author&q=hui.wang%40canonical.com

Contribute the fix for pulseaudio: https://cgit.freedesktop.org/pulseaudio/pulseaudio/log/?qt=author&q=hui.wang%40canonical.com

Contribute the fix for alsa-lib: https://github.com/alsa-project/alsa-lib/commits?author=hui.wang@canonical.com

Contribute the fix for https://github.com/alsa-project/alsa-ucm-conf/commits?author=jason77-wang

SRU many audio fixes to alsa-lib, alsa-ucm-conf, pulseaudio and gnmoe-control-center

=== Areas of work ===
I will continue to work on audio stack fixes, and make the audio feature/function perfect under Ubuntu Linux.

=== Things I could do better ===

I hope I can learn more knowledge about the package uploading process and convention in Ubuntu, and then I would like to apply to become an Ubuntu core developer in the future. 

== Plans for the future ==

I contributed a kernel patch to implement the audio jack software injection, based on it, I plan to write an audio function auto test case, when somebody submit SRU to audio related packages, the test case will be run automatically to check if the SRU introduces the regression.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Timo Aaltonen ===
==== General feedback ====

I've sponsored a number of packages on the audio stack for Hui over the years, and they've generally been ready and tested before upload. There's only been minor issues related to SRU versioning and making sure the LP bug is referenced correctly etc.

I trust hwang4 to continue to take good care of the audio stack, just like he has been doing since the start :)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Full list of sponsored packgages by me:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio|pulseaudio]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/1:10.0-2ubuntu3.1|1:10.0-2ubuntu3.1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio|pulseaudio]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/1:8.0-0ubuntu3.9|1:8.0-0ubuntu3.9]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib|alsa-lib]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib/1.1.3-5ubuntu0.1|1.1.3-5ubuntu0.1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib|alsa-lib]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib/1.1.6-1ubuntu1|1.1.6-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib|alsa-lib]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib/1.1.9-0ubuntu1.2|1.1.9-0ubuntu1.2]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib|alsa-lib]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib/1.1.3-5ubuntu0.4|1.1.3-5ubuntu0.4]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib|alsa-lib]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib/1.1.3-5ubuntu0.5|1.1.3-5ubuntu0.5]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib|alsa-lib]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-lib/1.1.9-0ubuntu1.3|1.1.9-0ubuntu1.3]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf|alsa-ucm-conf]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf/1.2.2-1ubuntu1|1.2.2-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf|alsa-ucm-conf]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf/1.2.2-1ubuntu0.1|1.2.2-1ubuntu0.1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf|alsa-ucm-conf]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf/1.2.2-1ubuntu4|1.2.2-1ubuntu4]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf|alsa-ucm-conf]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-ucm-conf/1.2.2-1ubuntu0.3|1.2.2-1ubuntu0.3]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio|pulseaudio]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/1:13.99.2-1ubuntu2.3|1:13.99.2-1ubuntu2.3]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio|pulseaudio]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/1:13.99.1-1ubuntu3.10|1:13.99.1-1ubuntu3.10]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Areas of Improvement ====

It's been a while since the previous sponsorship, so I can't think of anything particular.

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
