{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

The foundations of the Hungarian Ubuntu local community were laid in December 2005, when the first version of the ubuntu.hu homepage was launched by two volunteers. It was a collaboration centric site with a wiki and a forum. People started to show up and contribute. Some members met in person in March 2006 first, while the registrations and contributions were growing steadily. We decided to organize a conference for users. With the help of Canonical, it was a huge success.

The conference was a great opportunity to bring all the people together who wanted to contribute. The real local community was formed back then. Since then, we've been involved in a lot of things, like promoting Ubuntu at various festivals, organizing translation sprints, release parties, and other events for our local community.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - September 30, 2008
* '''Team Contact''' - Szilveszter Farkas <szilveszter.farkas@gmail.com>
* '''Membership''' - 40 active people as of September 30, 2008 (6000 users registered on the homepage, and 300 on the mailing list)
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-hu on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-hu on Freenode

=== Roadmap ===

Here you should provide a list of things you plan on doing. Include links to where these are discussed online and on mailing lists.

* 5th Free Software Evening (October 14, 2008) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-hu/2008-September/003357.html

* Intrepid Release Party (October 30, 2008) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-hu/2008-September/003319.html

* Intrepid Press Conference (not decided yet) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-hu/2008-September/003309.html

* Ubuntu Christmas (December, 2008) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-hu/2008-September/003352.html

* Presenting at the Open Source Farm (December 11, 2008): http://www.osf.hu/ - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-hu/2008-October/003382.html

* 6th Free Software Evening (January, 2009)

* Jaunty Translation Sprint (March/April, 2009)

* Jaunty Jackalope Release Party (April, 2009)

=== Experience ===

List here activities that the group has already done. Again provide links to online discussions, reviews, blog entries etc:

'''2008'''

* Organized the Intrepid Translation Sprint 8.09 (September 27-28, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008sep/forditohetvege-809

* Organized the second Hungarian Ubuntu Conference (September 13, 2008) - http://konf.ubuntu.hu/2008/

* Translated the 15th issue of the Full Circle Magazine (August 30, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/kiri/megjelent-a-full-circle-magazin-15-szamanak-magyar-forditasa

* Announced the availability of <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DdtpLpHtml|Nightmonkey]]</nowiki>, a tool to help translate the package descriptions visible in gnome-app-install (August 27, 2008) - https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-translators/2008-August/001650.html

* Promoted Ubuntu at Sziget Festival 2008 (August 13-18, 2008)

* Translated the 3rd and 14th issue of the Full Circle Magazine (August 5, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/kiri/megjelent-a-full-circle-magazin-3-es-14-szamanak-magyar-forditasa

* Translated the 13rd issue of the Full Circle Magazine (July 15, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/kiri/megjelent-a-full-circle-magazin-13-szamanak-magyar-forditasa

* Promoted Ubuntu at Hegyalja Festival 2008 (July 10-12, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/toros/hegyalja-fesztival-beszamolo

* Translated the 12th issue of the Full Circle Magazine (July 6, 2008) -http://ubuntu.hu/blog/kiri/megjelent-a-full-circle-magazin-12-ik-szamanak-magyar-forditasa

* Organized the Intrepid Translation Sprint 8.07 (July 5-6, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008jun/ubuntu-forditohetvege-807

* Organized the fourth Free Software Evening (June 16, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/szekeresbarnabas/szabad-szoftver-est-videok-junius

* Presenting at the Hungarian Linux Club (May 29, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008may/linux-klub-majus-29-en-csutortok-este

* Heronspotting - The Hardy Heron Hiking (May 3, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008may/kocsagles-beszamolo-es-fotok

* Organized the Hardy Heron Release Party (April 26, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008apr/hardy-release-party-fenykepek

* Sent Press Releases in Hungarian about the Hardy Heron to the local online and printed media (April 24, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/press/hardy

* Translated the 2nd issue of the Full Circle Magazine (April 24, 2008) -http://ubuntu.hu/blog/kiri/megjelent-a-full-circle-magazin-12-ik-szamanak-magyar-forditasa

* Organized the third Free Software Evening (April 14, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008apr/harmadik-szabad-szoftver-estek-videok

* Organized the Hardy Translation Sprint 8.04 (April 5-6, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008mar/ubuntu-forditohetvege-804

* Launched the Hungarian Ubuntu Support mailing list (Ubuntu-help) (March 23, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008mar/elindult-az-ubuntu-help-levelezolista

* Translated the 1st issue of the Full Circle Magazine (February 2, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/kiri/megjelent-full-circle-magazin-elso-kiadasanak-magyar-forditasa

* Organized the second Free Software Evening (January 16, 2008) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2008jan/szabad-szoftver-estek-2-alkalom-videok

'''2007'''

* Organized the Gutsy Gibbon Release Party (October 20, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/story/ubuntu-gutsy-release-party

* Sent Press Releases in Hungarian about the Hardy Heron to the local online and printed media (October 18, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2007oct/gutsy-release

* Organized the first Free Software Evening (October 17, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/hirek/2007nov/szabad-szoftver-estek-videok

* Organized the Gutsy Translation Sprint 7.10 (September 29-30, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/hir/ubuntu-forditohetvege

* Promoted Ubuntu at Hegyalja Festival 2007 (July 12-14, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/cikk/hegyalja-fesztival

* Organized the Gnome Translation Sprint (June 30 - July 1, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/cikk/elo-gnome-forditohetvege

* Redesigned the Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo homepage (April 23, 2007) based on Drupal - http://ubuntu.hu/cikk/megujult-az-ubuntu-hu

* Organized the Feisty Fawn Release Party (April 20, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/feisty-release-party

* Organized the Feisty Translation Sprint (March 31 - April 1, 2007) - http://ubuntu.hu/blog/ubuntu-ford-t-h-tv-ge-live

'''2006'''

* Organized the first Hungarian Ubuntu Conference (October 28, 2006) with the sponsorship of Canonical - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue13#Hungarian%20Ubuntu%20Conference%202006

'''2005'''

* Launched the Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo homepage (December 19, 2005) based on MediaWiki and phpBB.
