{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Leigh Honeywell ===

aka hypatia, hypatiadotca, or sometimes hypa7ia

After starting out with Mandrake and running Debian on desktops and servers for a while, Leigh really got into using Linux with Ubuntu Warty Warthog, and hasn't looked back since (except for those two months where she ran Gentoo).

She's an independent computer security consultant specializing in application security and malware research.  She's also slowly chipping away at an Honours Bachelor of Science in <nowiki>[[http://web.cs.toronto.edu/ | Computer Science]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.utoronto.ca/equitystudies/ | Equity Studies]]</nowiki> at the <nowiki>[[http://www.utoronto.ca/ |University of Toronto]]</nowiki>.

=== Contact ===

{*} IRC: hypatia on irc.freenode.net

{*} Email: 
{*} Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/hypatia]]</nowiki>

{*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1579|hypatia]]</nowiki> on ubuntuforums.org

{*} Blog: <nowiki>[[http://hypatia.ca]]</nowiki> & more general bio: <nowiki>[[http://hypatia.ca/about]]</nowiki>

{*} Microblogs on <nowiki>[[http://identi.ca/hypatiadotca|identi.ca]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/hypatiadotca|twitter]]</nowiki>.

=== Ubuntu-Women ===

{*} Op in the official #Ubuntu-Women channel on irc.freenode.net

{*} Troll and derail fighter extraordinaire

{*} Helps out with support, both technical and non.

=== Ubuntu-Canada ===

{*} Contributes to support on the Ubuntu-ca mailing list

{*} Op in the #ubuntu-ca IRC channel

=== Other F/OSS Contributions ===

{*} Admin and Mentor for Xelerance Google Summer of Code projects in 2009

{*} IRC and forum support for Ubuntu, Asterisk, and a variety of other projects over the years.

=== Other Volunteerish Stuff ===

{*} Co-founder, board member, and current president of <nowiki>[[http://hacklab.to|HackLabTO]]</nowiki>, Toronto's Hackerspace

{*} Member of the board of advisors and contest co-ordinator for the <nowiki>[[http://sector.ca|SecTor Security Conference]]</nowiki>

{*} Frequent speaker at a variety of conferences, user groups, and schools.  The long list is on her <nowiki>[[http://hypatia.ca/about |bio page]]</nowiki>.

{*} Designed and ran a workshop on microcontroller programming and wearable computing for the <nowiki>[[http://gr8-designs.ca | Gr8 Designs for Gr8 Girls]]</nowiki> program at the University of Toronto

=== Testimonials ===

I strongly support Leigh for one of the leadership roles in the Ubuntu-Women project. I really think people like her who have a long standing commitment and a profound knowledge of the project are the most capable to lead the group. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:myriam]]</nowiki> 
* I think Leigh would be great in taking part in the leader of the Ubuntu Women project. She gives a balanced and sometimes alternative view on things, giving people more information and food for thought.  she is helpful and there to guide and offer assistance to others should they need it.  She would make a great leader. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:czajkowski]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
----
CategoryHomepage
