{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~hyperair|hyperair]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|3(> '''IRC''':
| '''hyperair''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''hyperair''' on ''irc.gnome.org''
|-
| '''hyperair''' on ''irc.oftc.net''
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|}
=== About Me ===
My name is Chow Loong Jin, and I am currently a Computer Engineering student at Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. I have been an Ubuntu user since July 2006, shortly after the release of Ubuntu Dapper Drake. 

=== Contributions ===
* Active member of SingaporeTeam.
* Ubuntu Archives and Releases mirror administrator (http://ntuoss1.uni.cx, previously known as http://ntuoss1.ntu.edu.sg but without a DNS record), since October 2008.
* Banshee Team and Banshee Unstable Team administrator and PPA maintainer, since May 2008.
* Geany Dev Team Administrator and PPA Maintainer since February 2009.
* Member of the Debian CLI Applications Team, as of January 2009.
* Packaging
* SRUs and other bug-fixes

==== Packaging Contributions ====
Among the packages I've packaged, and have entered Ubuntu are:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/codelite|CodeLite]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sigx|libsigx]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geanyvc|geanyvc]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/geanyprj|geanyprj]]</nowiki>

Packages which have entered Debian but not Ubuntu:
* bansheelyricsplugin

Packages still waiting in REVU:
* spellcheck
* geanydoc

Packages maintained in Debian:
* banshee (co-maintained with Sebastian Dröge)
* banshee-extension-mirage
* taglib-sharp (co-maintained with Jose Carlos Garcia Sogo and Sebastian Dröge)

Merges:
* Banshee 1.4.3-3ubuntu1
* nautilus-share 0.7.2-4ubuntu1

==== Bug Fixes ====
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/248705|#248705]]</nowiki> Evolution Exchange does not authenticate to Exchange servers with a relative path in the form action, e.g. "owaauth.dll"
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/263779|#263779]]</nowiki> Evince hijacks global multimedia keys
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/186938|#186938]]</nowiki> nautilus-wallpaper not working in hardy heron after update to nautilus-2.21.6
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/287374|#287374]]</nowiki> [Intrepid] Suspend fails when telling pm-utils to use uswsusp
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/201462|#201462]]</nowiki> nautilus-gksu stopped working in hardy
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/268141|#268141]]</nowiki> no ssh-agent after resume from hibernate
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/329125|#329125]]</nowiki> Evolution Calendar sets wrong foreground colour for calendar items
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/322781|#322781]]</nowiki> banshee doesn't save new last.fm stations (backported fix by Gabriel Burt from SVN)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/257060|#257060]]</nowiki> installing samba through nautilus crashes if synaptic is open
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/293601|#293601]]</nowiki> folder sharing - share name = empty despite given name
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/305987|#305987]]</nowiki> Sharing is enabled despite the package manager failing to install missing packages
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/209136|#209136]]</nowiki> [nautilus-share] use system icons
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/202089|#202089]]</nowiki> Pulseaudio is blocking normal sound after resume

=== Development Skills ===
I was proficient in XHTML, Javascript (especially DOM manipulation and XMLHtttpRequest), and CSS, as well as Perl, back when I was still actively doing web development (2003-2005). A little something I was working on back then was a webforum powered by AJAX. I never completed it, and it still lingers around in its incomplete state -- http://nerdforum.tripod.com

Now, my interests have moved towards desktop applications. I am currently familiar with Python, Bash, C and C++, as well as Java, though my language of choice is C++. I am in the midst of development of a download manager, written with Gtkmm, Curl (thinking of changing to CurlPP), and the boost libraries. It does not have a name yet as the only name I had come up with (HyperGet) was already taken.
----
CategoryHomepage
