{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



-----

{i} '''New asic0x-dkms driver for iBurst USB devices now available in Ubuntu 15.04 and 14.10, and in Backports for 14.04 and 12.04.'''

In 15.04 and 14.10, simply:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install asic0x-dkms
</pre>
or in 14.04:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install asic0x-dkms/trusty-backports
</pre>
and in 12.04:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install asic0x-dkms/precise-backports
</pre>

The modem will appear as an interface named "ethX", where X depends on what other networking devices you have in use.  A PPPoE (DSL) connection can be configured in Network Manager.  Be sure to set the '''MTU''' to '''1392'''.  The MTU configuration tab in Network Manager does not set the MTU for the ppp interface (see <nowiki>[[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=572957|upstream bug]]</nowiki>).  After creating the PPPoE connection, edit the file '''/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/<name of DSL connection>''' and add the following section, or add to the [ppp] section if it already exists:
<pre>
[ppp]
mtu=1392
mru=1392
</pre>

To verify that the MTU setting is correct, run '''traceroute''' with the '''--mtu''' option, e.g.
<pre>
traceroute --mtu www.ubuntu.com
</pre>
Check that you see '''F=1392''' at the first hop.
-----

{i} '''~+NB: PPA available since 12.04 (Precice Pangolin)+~''' (usb devices only)

Graham Inggs has made a PPA available of the '''ibdriver''' in <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_Kernel_Module_Support|DKMS]]</nowiki> format (meaning the driver will be automatically rebuilt when a new kernel is installed) for Ubuntu Precise Pangolin 12.04 (and on). The simple instructions are posted <nowiki>[[http://mybroadband.co.za/vb/showthread.php/82091-iBurst-and-Linux-setup?p=8153969&viewfull=1#post8153969|here]]</nowiki>. It does the driver installation automatically: applies patches, builds & loads driver module.

Here is a quick summary (and more):

1. Get the PPA:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ginggs/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ibdriver-dkms
</pre>
2. Set up your connection using the interactive program '''pppoeconf''':
<pre>
sudo pppoeconf
</pre>
RP-PPPOE (as often suggested) is not necessary. The pre-installed PPPOE already has the RP-PPPOE plugin included.

3. Connect using:
<pre>
pon dsl-provider
</pre>
No sudo required, if user in 'dip' group (Dial-up IP). Add user to 'dip' group using:
<pre>
sudo usermod -a -G dip <username>
</pre>
... or navigate to 'Users and Groups' from the Dash and add the user to the group or assign the 'Connect to Internet using a modem' privilege to the user.

4. Disconnect using:
<pre>
poff
</pre>
5. See connection activity using:
<pre>
plog
</pre>
6. '''TIP:''' continuously monitor signal strength, connection activity, & ppp connection with this command:
<pre>
watch 'iwconfig ib0 && plog && ifconfig ppp0'
</pre>
7. '''TIP:''' connect to iburst automatically when you plug in the device by adding this to your `/etc/network/interfaces` file:
<pre>
auto ib0
   up ifconfig ib0 up
   post-up pon dsl-provider
   down poff
   down ifconfig ib0 down
</pre>

'''NOTE (1)''': there should be no other sections referring to '''ib0''' or '''dsl-provider'''; if so, comment out by preceding lines with #

This also enables you to plug the device out and back in to reset the connection (it may take a minute).

'''NOTE (2)''': the `auto ib0` part will cause the system to try setting up the connection during system start-up. If the device is not plugged in, it may increase start-up time significantly - you'll get a message "Waiting for network configuration...". A solution is to boot with the device present. Plugging the device in when this message appears also speeds the process up.
-----
{X} '''~+Troubleshooting+~'''

* If `iwconfig ib0` shows Signal Level:0 (meaning `pon dsl-provider` can't connect) then try bringing up the '''ib0''' interface manually using:
<pre>
sudo ifconfig ib0 up
</pre>

* `ifconfig ppp0` shows you're connected but you're still not accessing the internet via '''ppp0'''. Other connections might interfere with your default gateway (`route` command will show the default route is not ppp0; perhaps eth0 or wlan0). Make sure the '''defaultroute''' setting is in your '/etc/ppp/peers/dsl-provider' file; also try adding the '''replacedefaultroute''' setting to override other default routes.
----

{i} '''The rest of this page applies to old versions of Ubuntu (kernel 2.6) and will not work as is''', though some of the info may still me useful.
-------

== Installing the iBurst drivers ==

This page gives instructions on how to install the drivers for an iBurst modem on Edgy Eft 6.10 or later.
Currently there is two types of iBurst modem - PCMCIA (laptop) and USB/Ethernet (desktop).

To install the drivers you will need to download some software. If you are relying on your (not yet installed) iBurst account for internet access you will first need to go somewhere you can download stuff and copy it onto USB drive/CD/floppy, then transfer to your (K)ubuntu system.

Now to the installation:
First off, '''don't connect the modem to the computer''' until instructed to do so.
With the USB modem you can hook it up to the mains power and try to find a location for good reception .. there is 5 green LEDs on the front panel of the modem - the number of illuminated LEDS indicates the reception strength. A stronger signal -> faster connection.

=== The Ethernet Device ===

If you have the Ethernet type, you don't need any special driver and can ignore the rest of this page.

* Plug in the modem, you should see your computer connect to the local network
* Right click on network-manager (the network icon), choose "Edit Connections"
* Change to the DSL tab
* Add a new connection, using your login credentials. All the other default settings should be fine
* Connect to it. (you can tell it to automatically connect whenever connected to the modem)

=== Download USB Driver Software ===

Step 1:
Download the iBurst drivers from our good friends at sourceforge:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/ibdriver

The correct driver to use for Hardy Heron is:
<pre>
ibdriver-1.3.2-linux-2.6.24.tar.gz
</pre>
The correct driver to use for Feisty Fawn and Gutsy Gibbon is:
<pre>
ibdriver-1.3.2-linux-2.6.20.tar.gz
</pre>
For Edgy Eft, use:
<pre>
ibdriver-1.3.1-linux-2.6.17.tar.gz
</pre> 
For earlier versions (Dapper and before) use:
<pre>
ibdriver-1.3.1-linux-2.6.tar.gz
</pre>

Then download the Roaring Penguin PPPOE dialer ''(Note: I can't get it working with the Debian dialer)'':

http://www.roaringpenguin.com/penguin/open_source_rp-pppoe.php
(seems to have moved here - http://www.roaringpenguin.com/products/pppoe)

Open up a terminal and make sure the two tarballs (files) you just downloaded are in the directory you want to work in. Extract the two tar files:

<pre>
tar -xf ibdriver*
tar -xf rp-pppoe*</pre>

=== More requirements for Feisty Fawn 7.04 ===
With Feisty, you'll need to install libc6-dev, as follows:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libc6-dev
</pre>

=== More requirements for versions earlier than Dapper 6.06 ===

These steps are not necessary on Dapper or Edgy.

Versions earlier than Dapper need to to have installed the build-essentials package, plus the linux kernel headers. For some reason ibdriver only compiles with gcc3.4, so you need to get that too. <<BR>>

If you cannot run aptitude then download the packages from packages.ubuntu.com and install them using dpkg (check dependencies!)

<pre>
sudo aptitude install build-essential gcc-3.4 linux-headers-386 linux-kernel-headers
</pre>

Sometimes you need to make a symbolic link to the headers. Better safe than sorry, so do it anyway:

<pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/src/linux-headers-$(uname -r) /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/build
</pre>

=== Make and install drivers ===

Now cd to the directory with the ibdriver source, then make and install the drivers.

<pre>
make
sudo make install</pre>

If all goes well you will get no error messages, the output of the '''make''' command should look something like this:

<pre>
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.12-10-686/build SUBDIRS=/home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8 modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.12-10-686'
  CC [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-net.o
  CC [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-pcmcia.o
  CC [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-usb.o
  CC [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-file.o
  Building modules, stage 2.
  MODPOST
  CC      /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-file.mod.o
  LD [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-file.ko
  CC      /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-net.mod.o
  LD [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-net.ko
  CC      /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-pcmcia.mod.o
  LD [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-pcmcia.ko
  CC      /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-usb.mod.o
  LD [M]  /home/mark/build/ibdriver-1.2.8/ib-usb.ko
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.12-10-686'
</pre>

... and the ouput of the '''sudo make install''' command will look like this:

<pre>
cp *.ko /lib/modules/2.6.12-10-686/kernel/drivers/net/
echo checking module dependancies...
checking module dependancies...
depmod -a
</pre>

... and you have successfully compiled and installed the driver modules. Now we gots to change a few configuration files.

'''For USB (desktop) modems, skip the PCMCIA steps and go straight to configuring the dialer'''

=== PCMCIA configuration ===

These steps are not necessary for USB (desktop) modem users

First change is the PCMCIA configuration file.

<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/pcmcia/config.opts
</pre>

At the end of this file, paste the following:

<pre>
device "iburst_cs"
   class "network" module "ib-pcmcia"

card "ArrayComm ut02"
    manfid 0x02e3, 0x0001
    bind "iburst_cs"

card "ArrayComm ut02"
    manfid 0x02e3, 0x0002
    bind "iburst_cs"
</pre>

Save the file and exit. <<BR>>
Next file:

<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/default/pcmcia
</pre>

Look for a line that says '''CORE_OPTS'''. Change it to the following:

<pre>
CORE_OPTS="unreset_check=20 unreset_delay=100 unreset_limit=100"
</pre>

Save the file and exit. <<BR>>
Next file:

<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/iburst
</pre>

The only text in this file should be:

<pre>
options ib-net ifname="ib"
</pre>

Save the file and exit. <<BR>>
Okay, that is the PCMCIA stuff configured. Restart the PCMCIA system

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/pcmcia restart
</pre>

== Dialer configuration ==

'''(WELCOME BACK DESKTOP USERS)'''

Now '''plug your modem in.''' :KS  If sound is enabled, you should hear two beeps, and eventually the status light goes from purple to blue. That means your card is plugged in and happy. You can check this by listing the loaded modules:

<pre>
lsmod | grep ib_
</pre>

.. if all is well you will see '''ib_net''' and '''ib_pcmcia''' (if applicable) listed.

Now we configure the dialer. cd to the directory where you extracted the Roaring Penguin source, then run the setup script:

<pre>
sudo ./go
</pre>

... wait for a bit while the script works it's magic, then answer the questions the script asks. Answers are:

* Username: your mobile broadband provider would have told you this eg. yourname@isp.com.au
* Ethernet interface: ib0
* Demand value: no
* DNS: server
* Password: The password supplied by your mobile broadband ISP.
* Firewall: 1

... check the settings are correct and accept them if so.

If for some reason this fails, check whether you have the libc6-dev package installed.

 One last config file to change:

<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
</pre>

Insert the following code at the end of the file:

<pre>
auto ib0
iface ib0 inet manual
   up ip link set $IFACE up
   up pppoe-start
   down pppoe-stop
   down ip link set $IFACE down
</pre>

Save the file and exit.

Note: if you do not want your modem to connect automatically at login then delete the line 'auto ib0'

== Testing ==

Now we will test the connection. Make sure you are somewhere with good reception, so the reception quality light on your card should be green. Run the command to initialise a pppoe connection:

<pre>
sudo ifup ib0
</pre>

... and (fingers crossed) you should get a connection!
To stop the connection use the command:

<pre>
sudo ifdown ib0
</pre>

And that's it. Note that not all applications will work immediately, and may require a restart.

{OK} Too easy (unless there is errors in this how-to!).
If your iBurst card is inserted when you boot the machine then it will connect automatically. Otherwise use the ifup command above (don't forget to use sudo).
Good luck, and enjoy the freedom of using free software wherever you want (coverage permitting of course).

--------
== Problems ( and Solutions ) ==
If you are a new Ubuntu user and having problems with your installation, try ubuntuforums.org.
If you are certain that the problems is directly related to the ibdriver software, have a look at the help forum for the ibdriver project on Sourceforge.

=== USB modem freezes ===
On some PCs the USB modem can cause the USB controller to freeze. The solution is to apply a patch to the driver source code.
The patch is available from here:

https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1459008&group_id=138984&atid=742190

Extract the file into the same directory as the ibdriver source, then patch the source using the following command:

<pre>
patch <ibdriver-1.2.8_6.patch
</pre>

... then make and install the drivers as per the earlier instructions.

=== The ibdriver README says I should edit /etc/hotplug/usb.usermap ===

This is not necessary in Dapper, have not confirmed for Breezy.

== Monitoring signal strength ==
While there's no equivalent of the Windows Iburst software, Sourceforge hosts the Eyeburst project, which is a Java graphical monitoring tool. It's available at <nowiki>[[http://eyeburst.sourceforge.net/]]</nowiki>

A quick solution to continuously monitor signal strength, connection activity, & ppp connection is to use this command:
<pre>
watch 'iwconfig ib0 && plog && ifconfig ppp0'
</pre>
----
CategoryHardware CategoryNetworking CategoryWireless
