{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

While Ubuntu comes with a number of icon packs you can select from, online a small number is installed by default. The first place to look for more icons is on the default repositories. 

== Icon packs in repository ==

1. Open Synaptic - Press "Alt+F2" and enter "gksu synaptic", you will be asked for your password.
2. Type "icons theme" in the search box. There will be several themes listed.
3. Right-click and mark the ones you like for installation.
4. Click "Apply" and wait for them to install.
5. Go to System->Preferences->Appearance->Customize->Icons and select the one you like.

== Icon packs from theme websites ==

Some websites provide a list of themes including icons, which can be downloaded. A good place is <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome-look.org|GnomeLook]]</nowiki>. 
1. Go to the website and download the icon file.
2. Extract the archive in ~/.icons directory.
3. The new icons will appear in the appearance preferences.

== Use another icon set while keeping the Ubuntu Mono panel icons ==

1. Press ALT+F2 and type "gksu nautilus /usr/share/icons".
2. Make a copy of the "ubuntu-mono-dark" or "ubuntu-mono-light" folder.
3. Rename the folder to a new name.
4. Open the index.theme file
5. Change the "Name" field to a new name ("Name=Ubuntu-Mono-Dark" to "Name=My-New-Icons")
6. Change "Inherits" field to the name of the icon theme you want to use ‘Inherits=Humanity-Dark,gnome,hicolor’ to the name of the folder of the icons you want to use.(This folder may be in ~/.icons or in /usr/share/icons)
7. Save the file and go to appearance preferences to set the new icon theme.

== Creating your own Icon Theme ==

=== Using Tango Generator ===

This is an application that lets you create a simple theme by selecting your own icons.
<nowiki>[[http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Tango+Generator+3?content=72361|TangoGenerator]]</nowiki>

=== Creating a Theme Manually ===

To create themes from scratch follow the tutorial on the Gnome Wiki: <nowiki>[[http://web.archive.org/web/20100305220150/http://live.gnome.org/GnomeArt/Tutorials/IconThemes|IconThemesTutorial]]</nowiki>(copy from archive.org)
