{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Ubuntu on the Lenovo IdeaPad S-series S10 and S12 ==
The Lenovo Ideapad S10 and S12 are a type of ultra-portable computer called a "Netbook".

S10 is in the same class as the Asus <nowiki>[[EeePC]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[AA1]]</nowiki>.

S12 is in the same class as the <nowiki>[[NC20|Samsung NC20]]</nowiki> and the HP Pavilion dv2. Hardware may be one of three version: VIA platform, Intel platform and ION platform

== Compatibility ==
=== 10.10/11.04[development] (Maverick/Natty) ===
==== ION platform ====
* Everything not described here works out of the box
* Battery discharging information is not available in gnome-power-manager (unresolved for now, LP#669062)
* Wireless: Install the proprietary driver, blacklist the module acer_wmi to fix the issue with wireless being disabled on every boot. (See https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IdeaPadS/Fixes )

=== 9.10 (Karmic Koala) ===
==== S12 VIA platform ====
* Processor: VIA Nano ULV 2250. Works perfectly, but in amd64 version of Ubuntu openssl needs patching to use padlock engine.
* Video: VIA Chrome9 HC3. Works with openchrome driver from svn. It gives basic functionality and no 3D acceleration and no HD hardware decoding. A better solution for graphics is described in <nowiki>[[NC20|Samsung NC20]]</nowiki> page. An easy guide on how to install it is given there. See: "Proprietary graphics driver" section. Allows 3D and HD video hardware decoding.
* Audio:  VT1708/A (Intel HD audio with Realtek codec), built-in speakers and headphones work. Microphone is reported to work with Alsa of version 1.0.20 and above.
* Wireless: BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01) [id 4315] (low-power version of BCM4312). Requires proprietary driver, or free driver b43 from compat-wireless-2.6 (in Ubuntu it included in linux-backports-modules-karmic package) with firmware from proprietary driver.  Works well.
* Special Keys and LEDs: Out of box doesn't work "One key recovery" button and "Quick start" button. Fn+F5 "Wireless toggle" doesn't seem to do anything. Others work great.
* Camera:  built-in camera works.
=== 9.10 Netbook Remix (Karmic Koala) (alpha) ===
==== S12 Intel platform ====
* Video:  Intel 945GME: Works perfectly.
* Audio:  built-in speakers and microphone work, others not tested yet.
* Wireless:  requires proprietary drivers.  Works well.
* Special Keys and LEDs:  All work well!
* Camera:  built-in camera works.  Doesn't seem to work on live cd.
==== S10 ====
* 

=== 9.04 (Jaunty Jackalope) ===
==== S12 VIA platform ====
* Video:  Works fine with the newest driver from <nowiki>[[linux.via.com.tw|Via linux portal]]</nowiki>
* Audio:  Speakers and headphones work. Microphone works after alsa is updated
* Wireless:  WLAN works well with proprietary STA driver. Bluetooth not tested
* Special keys and LEDs:  Works well except for "Quick Start" and "Recovery" buttons.
* Camera: Built-in camera works

=== 9.04 Netbook Remix (Jaunty Jackalope) ===
* Not tested

== Getting Started ==
Please visit the <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS-Installation]]</nowiki> section first.

For a general set of fixes post-install, please check <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS-Fixes]]</nowiki>.

For tips and suggestions on getting the most out of your Ubuntu install on the AA1, please see <nowiki>[[IdeaPadS-Using]]</nowiki>.

== References ==
The header and general design of this set of documentation (beginning with "IdeaPadS") was largely copied from the AA1 and EeePC documentation set.
