{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Setting Up LIRC For The IMON VFD and LCD Display ==
Please see the <nowiki>[[#Credits|credits]]</nowiki> section for information on the people who have contributed to this guide.

'''UPDATE: Users of Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic should see <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IMON_VFD_and_LCD_Karmic_9.10|this page:]]</nowiki>'''

'''UPDATE:  I have created a PPA with a pre-release version of LIRC 0.8.6 which seems to solve all the problems addressed by this page.  The package is currently compiled for Jaunty.'''

LIRC steps for Jaunty:
1. Go here: https://launchpad.net/~jyoder/+archive/ppa
2. Follow the '''Read about installing''' instructions
3. Run Synaptic and select '''lirc-modules-source''' and '''lirc''' packages
4. Apply
5. At a Terminal window prompt: <code> sudo dpkg-reconfigure lirc </code>
6. Reboot

LCDproc steps for Jaunty:
1. Go here: https://launchpad.net/~jyoder/+archive/lcdproc
2. Follow the '''Read about installing''' instructions
3. Run Synaptic and select the '''lcdproc''' package
4. Apply
5. Edit '''/etc/LCDd.conf''' and change the '''Driver=''' line to '''imon''' or '''imonlcd''' as appropriate.  For the '''imonlcd''' driver go do the imonlcd section and make sure the '''Protocol=''' line is set correctly for your device (0 for older LCDs, 1 for newer LCDs)
6. '''sudo /etc/init.d/LCDd stop; sudo /etc/init.d/LCDd start'''

The rest of this page will help with older Ubuntu releases.

My intention is to make the instructions more generic over time to work with more IMON display models.

'''NOTE: The model-specific sections might make more sense as separate pages that links back and forth to/from this page.  I'm starting with a monster page just to get everything in one place before splitting'''

'''NOTE: We have found that the ffdc model designator can refer to either the older VFD (Vaccuum Fluorescent Display) or the newer LCD displays. The Part 1 procedures should work for either device, but different procedures are required to get the displays on these alternative devices working. You must therefore know which device you have in your case beforehand. The little square pixels that display the characters on the VFD device are greenish in colour whereas those on the LCD device are blue. The LCD device also has a blue backlight whereas the VFD has no backlight. And the periphery of the LCD display window has small dark squares around it that can be set up to display icons - these are not present on the VFD display. The Part 1 procedure should get the volume knob and IR remote systems working on this device as well as setting up lirc to handle the LCD display or VFD display as outlined in Part 2 or Part 3. It is essential that you have the lirc_imon module created through THIS procedure working before moving on to the procedures for setting up the display outlined in Part 2 and Part 3.'''

'''ALSO NOTE: These procedures are set up for the _i386 packages. To use them for _amd64 installations simply ensure you change the package architecture flag _i386 to _amd64 in the wget and dpkg commands. The package with the _all flag is not dependent on architecture so don't change that.'''

Check which Model device you have installed by running `lsusb` in a terminal.
<pre>
lsusb | egrep -i 'soundgraph|imon'
</pre>

Among the lines output there should be one similar to this:

<pre>
Bus 008 Device 002: ID 15c2:ffdc SoundGraph Inc. iMON PAD Remote Controller
</pre>

The `15c2` identifies the manufacturer and the `ffdc` identifies the Model. These instructions should cover the following models:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Manufacturer
| Model
| Status
|-
| 15c2
| ffdc
| Complete
|-
| 15c2
| 0038
| Very incomplete
|}

=== Remove Existing LIRC ===
Remove any existing `lirc`, `lirc-modules-source` and `lcdproc` packages installed through Synaptic or apt-get:

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc stop
sudo apt-get remove lirc lirc-modules-source lcdproc
</pre>

=== Install Dependencies ===
Use Synaptic to ensure the dependencies required in both Part 1 and Part 2 are installed:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Version
| Command
|-
| ffdc/Hardy
| sudo apt-get install dialog setserial linux-libc-dev libc6 libc6-dev automake autoconf gcc gcc-4.2 gcc-4.2-base libgcc1 libtool patch dkms
|-
| ffdc/Jaunty
| sudo apt-get install automake
|-
| 0083/Jaunty
| FIXME sudo apt-get install dialog setserial linux-libc-dev libc6 libc6-dev automake autoconf gcc gcc-4.2 gcc-4.2-base libgcc1 libtool patch dkms
|}

=== Download Source ===
We need to install an updated lirc_imon module, so download libasound2, libasound2-dev, lirc and lirc-modules-source. I like to keep such packages in /usr/src so that I know where they are and to get the permissions correct:

I don't like this at all... If the packages existed in the repositories, we should be able to just give apt-get instructions like we need to for Jaunty, using the syntax:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libasound2 libasound2-dev lirc lirc-modules-source
</pre>

You have to separate these out based on the Ubuntu version and the IMON version.

==== Hardy: ====
<pre>
cd /usr/src
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/a/alsa-lib/libasound2_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/a/alsa-lib/libasound2-dev_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lirc/lirc_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lirc/lirc-modules-source_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_all.deb
</pre>

You can download the 0ubuntu1 versions of the lirc and lirc-modules-source files by going to the following pages:

for lirc_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/i386/lirc/0.8.3-0ubuntu1

for lirc_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_amd386.deb
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/amd64/lirc/0.8.3-0ubuntu1

for lirc-modules-source_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_all.deb
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/i386/lirc-modules-source/0.8.3-0ubuntu1

Do not use the more recently released 0ubuntu2 versions of these files with Hardy 8.04. The 0ubuntu2 versions do work well with Intrepid Alpha6 however.

After download, check that they are there and are owned by root:

<pre>
ls -l
</pre>

If all is OK go ahead and install the packages:

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i lirc-modules-source_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_all.deb  
sudo dpkg -i libasound2_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i libasound2-dev_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i lirc_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
</pre>

==== Intrepid: ====
<pre>
cd /usr/src
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/a/alsa-lib/libasound2_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/a/alsa-lib/libasound2-dev_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lirc/lirc_0.8.3-0ubuntu2_i386.deb
sudo wget http://nl.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/l/lirc/lirc-modules-source_0.8.3-0ubuntu2_all.deb
</pre>

After download, check that they are there and are owned by root:

<pre>
ls -l
</pre>

If all is OK go ahead and install the packages:

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i lirc-modules-source_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_all.deb  
sudo dpkg -i libasound2_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i libasound2-dev_1.0.17a-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i lirc_0.8.3-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
</pre>

==== Common ====

When debconf asks about configuration, select '''none''' (also '''none''' when asked about the IR transmitter)

Then load up the '''hardware.conf''' file:

<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/lirc/hardware.conf
</pre>

Copy the following file into gedit and then save it to `/etc/lirc/hardware.conf`

<pre>
REMOTE="Soundgraph iMON IR/LCD"
REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev lirc_imon"
REMOTE_DRIVER=""
REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="/etc/lircd.conf"
REMOTE_LIRCD_ARGS=""

TRANSMITTER="None"
TRANSMITTER_MODULES=""
TRANSMITTER_DRIVER=""
TRANSMITTER_DEVICE=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_CONF=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_ARGS=""

START_LIRCD="true"

LOAD_MODULES="true"

LIRCMD_CONF=""

FORCE_NONINTERACTIVE_RECONFIGURATION="false"
START_LIRCMD=""
START_LIRCMD=""
</pre>

The file containing the codes for the remote control you are using now needs to be loaded into `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf`. Three choices are provided below - use whichever file is most appropriate for you. Copy that file into gedit and then save it to `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf`

''NOTE: When mapping the keys of your remote to the actions required for your application, be sure the names of the keys match those defined in whichever `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf` you are using. For example if you use your remote to control MythTV the keys mapped in the configuration file `~/.lirc/mythtv` should match those defined in `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf`.''

<pre>
sudo gedit /etc/lirc/lircd.conf
</pre>

====== Choice 1 ======
If you have no remote control but just want to get the control knob on the Antec case working use the following file:

<pre>
begin remote

  name  mceusb
  bits           32
  eps            30
  aeps          100

  one             0     0
  zero            0     0
  gap          203992
  toggle_bit_mask 0x8000

      begin codes
          knob_left                0x01000000
          knob_right               0x00010000
      end codes

end remote
</pre>

====== Choice 2 ======
If you have an MCE remote control or a universal remote like the Logitech Harmony models set up to emulate an MCE remote use the following file:

<pre>
begin remote

  name         mceusb
  bits         32
  eps          30
  aeps        100

  one             0     0
  zero            0     0
  gap         203992
  toggle_bit_mask 0x8000

      begin codes
          Power                0x800F040C
          TV_power             0x800F0465
          Home                 0x800F040D
          Guide                0x800F0426
          LiveTV               0x800F0425
          DVD                  0x800F0424
          Teletext             0x800F045A
          RecordTV             0x800F0448
          Back                 0x800F0423
          Forward              0x800F0414
          Stop                 0x800F0419
          Replay               0x800F041B
          Skip                 0x800F041A
          Play                 0x800F0416
          Record               0x800F0417
          Rewind               0x800F0415
          Pause                0x800F0418
          More                 0x800F040F
          Left                 0x800F0420
          Right                0x800F0421
          Up                   0x800F041E
          Down                 0x800F041F
          OK                   0x800F0422
          Chan_Down            0x800F0413
          Chan_Up              0x800F0412
          Vol_Down             0x800F0411
          Vol_Up               0x800F0410
          Mute                 0x800F040E
          1                    0x800F0401
          2                    0x800F0402
          3                    0x800F0403
          4                    0x800F0404
          5                    0x800F0405
          6                    0x800F0406
          7                    0x800F0407
          8                    0x800F0408
          9                    0x800F0409
          Zero                 0x800F0400
****** 0x800F041D
          Clear                0x800F040A
###### 0x800F041C
          Enter                0x800F040B
          Red                  0x800F045B
          Green                0x800F045C
          Yellow               0x800F045D
          Blue                 0x800F045E
          Antec_knob_left      0x01000000
          Antec_knob_right     0x00010000
      end codes

end remote
</pre>

====== Choice 3 ======
If you have the IMON PAD remote that was supplied with some Silverstone and Thermaltake cases use the following file that was originally generated by Venky Raju:

<pre>
# 
# contributed by Venky Raju
# 

begin remote

  name     iMON-PAD
  bits           32
  eps            30
  aeps          100

  one             0     0
  zero            0     0
  gap          235965
  min_repeat      1
  toggle_bit      0

      begin codes
          AppExit                  0x288195B7
          Record                   0x298115B7
          Play                     0x2A8115B7
          SlowMotion               0x29B195B7
          Rewind                   0x2A8195B7
          Pause                    0x2A9115B7
          FastForward              0x2B8115B7
          PrevChapter              0x2B9115B7
          Stop                     0x2B9715B7
          NextChapter              0x298195B7
          Esc                      0x2BB715B7
          Eject                    0x299395B7
          AppLauncher              0x29B715B7
          MultiMon                 0x2AB195B7
          TaskSwitcher             0x2A9395B7
          Mute                     0x2B9595B7
          Vol_Up                   0x28A395B7
          Vol_Down                 0x28A595B7
          Ch_Up                    0x289395B7
          Ch_Down                  0x288795B7
          Timer                    0x2B8395B7
          1                        0x28B595B7
          2                        0x2BB195B7
          3                        0x28B195B7
          4                        0x2A8595B7
          5                        0x299595B7
          6                        0x2AA595B7
          7                        0x2B9395B7
          8                        0x2A8515B7
          9                        0x2AA115B7
          0                        0x2BA595B7
          ShiftTab                 0x28B515B7
          Tab                      0x29A115B7
          MyMovie                  0x2B8515B7
          MyMusic                  0x299195B7
          MyPhoto                  0x2BA115B7
          MyTV                     0x28A515B7
          Bookmark                 0x288515B7
          Thumbnail                0x2AB715B7
          AspectRatio              0x29A595B7
          FullScreen               0x2AA395B7
          MyDVD                    0x29A295B7
          Menu                     0x2BA385B7
          Caption                  0x298595B7
          Language                 0x2B8595B7
          MouseKeyboard            0x299115B7
          SelectSpace              0x2A9315B7
          MouseMenu                0x28B715B7
          MouseRightClick          0x688481B7
          Enter                    0x28A195B7
          MouseLeftClick           0x688301B7
          WindowsKey               0x2B8195B7
          Backspace                0x28A115B7
          Space                    0x2B9B15F7
          Up                       0xEB53F9B7
          Left                     0x6ABAFFBF
          Down                     0x6F9ECBB7
          Right                    0x69A281B7

      end codes

end remote
</pre>

====== Common ======
Save to `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf` and check that these files are owned by `root root` and have permissions `-rw-r--r--`

<pre>
cd /etc/lirc
ls -l
</pre>

Set up the lirc_imon is_lcd parameter that is required in Part 2. For the '''ffdc '''Model device this needs to be `is_lcd=1`

<pre>
cd /etc/modprobe.d/
sudo gedit options.conf
</pre>
Then add the following lines to the end of the options file and save:
<pre>
options lirc_imon is_lcd=1
</pre>

=== Reboot time ===
Shutdown and reboot

Make sure lirc is running:

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc restart
</pre>

Check that the required `/dev/lirc0` and `/dev/lircd` device files are present:

<pre>
ls -l /dev/lirc*
</pre>

If they are there run '''irw''' (it probably won't even start if something is wrong with the installation):

<pre>
irw
</pre>

Turn the knob left and right and see if that is recorded in the terminal. Those with an MCE or IMON remote control should also see output when most of the buttons are pressed if they loaded one of the alternate `/etc/lirc/lircd.conf` file suggested above.

=== Part 2: Setting Up The IMON ffdc Model LCD Diplay ===

It is essential that you have lirc working properly before moving to this procedure.
If you have an IMON VFD device rather than an LCD device go to the Part 3 Procedures further down.

Download the '''lcdproc code''' and required patch:

<pre>
cd /usr/src
sudo wget http://downloads.sourceforge.net/lcdproc/lcdproc-0.5.2.tar.gz
</pre>

If you have problems accessing the sourceforge download site try:
<pre>
sudo wget http://internap.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/lcdproc/lcdproc-0.5.2.tar.gz
</pre>

<pre>
sudo tar -zxvf lcdproc-0.5.2.tar.gz
sudo wget http://codeka.com/blogs/imon/lcdproc-0.5.2-imonlcd-0.3.patch
</pre>

Switch to the `lcdproc-0.5.2` directory generated during the tar and insert the patch:

<pre>
cd lcdproc-0.5.2
sudo patch -p1 < ../lcdproc-0.5.2-imonlcd-0.3.patch
</pre>

Edit `server/main.h` file, and change `RENDER_FREQ` from `8` to `2`:

<pre>
cd server
sudo gedit main.h
</pre>
Change the line #define RENDER_FREQ 8 to #define RENDER_FREQ 2 and save, then:
<pre>
cd ../
</pre>

Configure compile and install '''lcdproc''':

<pre>
sudo aclocal
sudo autoconf
sudo automake
</pre>
(You will probably get a message "server/drivers/Makefile.am:80: compiling `IOWarrior.c' with per-target flags requires `AM_PROG_CC_C_O' in `configure.in'". Don't worry about it!)
<pre>
sudo ./configure --enable-drivers=imonlcd
sudo make
sudo make install
</pre>

Edit the '''LCDd.conf''' configuration file:

<pre>
cd /usr/local/etc
sudo gedit LCDd.conf
</pre>
In the [server] section change the line Driver=curses to Driver=imonlcd
and the line DriverPath=server/drivers/ to DriverPath=/usr/local/lib/lcdproc/ [Note the trailing/ - it is essential!]

Then move down to the ### Driver sections and add the following lines and save (put your initials where the xxx is):
<pre>
[imonlcd]
    Device=/dev/lcd0
    Contrast=200
</pre>

If everything looks OK, make sure '''lirc''' is still working and `lcd0`, `lirc0` and `lircd` devices are created in `/dev`:

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc restart
ls -l /dev/l*
irw
</pre>

Turn the knob and look for output in the terminal.

Start '''LCDd''' in the foreground:

<pre>
sudo LCDd -f -r 4
</pre>

Start a separate terminal and enter:

<pre>
lcdproc
</pre>

If the software is working, information on the screens being cycled should appear in the '''LCDd''' server terminal.

If there is still nothing on the display please try this:

Stop LCDd (Ctrl C) and shut the machine down.

Remove the top of the case and boot up. Whilst the machine is running, carefully disconnect the little power connector in the three wire (red, black, purple in mine) connection that runs from the mobo power supply plug to the IMON device. The blue backlight will go out. Then plug the connector back together and run:

<pre>
sudo LCDd -f -r 4
</pre>

This bizarre procedure now brings my LCD to life and when '''lcdproc''' is run in a separate terminal, it cycles through the various screens in the configuration file as it should. Following the initiation in this way, the '''LCD''' operates normally following shutdown and reboot. However, if the power is shut off with the rear switch on the power supply or during a power interruption, I need to go through the initiation procedure again. It behaves similarly when power is interrupted and then booted up under WinXP so it appears to be independent of OS - perhaps a signal necessary to initiate the device following a complete loss of power is not being supplied by BIOS. Very odd!!

Once you get the display working with the '''LCDd''' server running in the foreground, the attached script will run the '''LCDd''' server in the background when you boot up your computer. Open the file LCDd for editing:

<pre>
cd /etc/init.d
sudo gedit
</pre>

Copy the following script into gedit and save as `/etc/init.d/LCDd`:

<pre>

prefix=/usr/local
exec_prefix=${prefix}
bindir=${exec_prefix}/bin
sbindir=${exec_prefix}/sbin
etc=${prefix}/etc

NAME=LCDd
DAEMON=${sbindir}/${NAME}
DESC="LCDd display server daemon"
OPTIONS=""

test -x ${DAEMON} || exit 0

case "$1" in
    start)
	printf "Starting ${DESC}: "
	start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --exec ${DAEMON} -- ${OPTIONS}
        sleep 1
	printf "\n"
	;;
    stop)
	printf "Stopping ${DESC}: "
	start-stop-daemon --stop --oknodo --quiet --exec ${DAEMON}
        sleep 1
	printf "\n"
	;;
    restart|force-reload)
	$0 stop
	sleep 1
	$0 start
	;;
*** )
	printf "Usage: $0 {start|stop|restart|force-reload}\n" >&2
	exit 1
	;;
esac

exit 0
</pre>

Change file permissions:
 
<pre>
sudo chmod +x LCDd
</pre>

Check that you have `-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 1111 .... LCDd`:

<pre>
ls -l LCDd
</pre>

Update the startup scripts:

<pre>
sudo update-rc.d LCDd defaults
</pre>
You might get a warning here about "update-rc.d: warning: /etc/init.d/LCDd missing LSB information", but it is safe to continue.

Now do the following:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/LCDd start script
</pre>

Shutdown and reboot, and if the LCD displays the '''LCDproc''' screen, the '''LCDd''' server is running in the background. The '''LCDd''' server can be stopped, started or restarted in the usual way by bringing up a terminal and entering either:

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/LCDd stop   
sudo /etc/init.d/LCDd start
sudo /etc/init.d/LCDd restart
</pre>

You can run the server in the foreground by typing:

<pre>
sudo LCDd -f -r 4
</pre>

in a terminal at anytime if you want to check the server output, but you will need to stop '''LCDd''' with the `/etc/init.d/LCDd stop` command beforehand.

=== Part 3: Setting up the IMON VFD Display ===
It is essential that you have lirc working properly before moving to this procedure.
These procedures should only be used for the IMON VFD Display - do NOT use them for the LCD display!!

Download the '''lcdproc''' code:

<pre>
cd /usr/src
sudo wget http://downloads.sourceforge.net/lcdproc/lcdproc-0.5.2.tar.gz
</pre>

(If you have problems accessing the sourceforge download site try:
<pre>
sudo wget http://internap.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/lcdproc/lcdproc-0.5.2.tar.gz)
</pre>
Then unpack:
<pre>
sudo tar -zxvf lcdproc-0.5.2.tar.gz
</pre>

Switch to the `lcdproc-0.5.2` directory generated during the untar, and edit `server/main.h` file, and change `RENDER_FREQ` from `8` to `2`:

<pre>
cd lcdproc-0.5.2/server
sudo gedit main.h
</pre>

Change the line `#define RENDER_FREQ 8` to `#define RENDER_FREQ 2` and save, then:

<pre>
cd ../
</pre>

Configure, compile and install '''lcdproc''':

<pre>
sudo aclocal
sudo autoconf
sudo automake
</pre>
(You will probably get a message "server/drivers/Makefile.am:80: compiling `IOWarrior.c' with per-target flags requires `AM_PROG_CC_C_O' in `configure.in'". Don't worry about it!)
<pre>
sudo ./configure --enable-drivers=imon
sudo make
sudo make install
</pre>

Copy the following '''LCDd''' configuration file into `/usr/local/etc/LCDd.conf`:

<pre>

[server]

Driver=imon

Bind=127.0.0.1

Port=13666

WaitTime=5

User=nobody

DriverPath=/usr/local/lib/lcdproc/

ToggleRotateKey=Enter
PrevScreenKey=Left
NextScreenKey=Right

[menu]

MenuKey=Escape
EnterKey=Enter
UpKey=Up
DownKey=Down

[imon]

Device=/dev/lcd0

Size=16x2

</pre>

Change the '''lirc_imon''' module option to that for a '''VFD''' device rather than an LCD device:

<pre>
cd /etc/modprobe.d/
sudo gedit options
</pre>
Change the last line to:
<pre>
options lirc_imon is_lcd=0
Save (CtrlO) and Exit (CtrlX)
</pre>

Shut your machine down and reboot.

If everything looks OK make sure '''lirc''' is still working and '''lcd0''', '''lirc0''' and '''lircd''' devices are created in '''/dev''':

<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/lirc restart
ls -l /dev/l*
irw
</pre>

Start '''LCDd''' in the foreground:

<pre>
sudo LCDd -f -r 4
</pre>

Start a separate terminal and enter:

<pre>
lcdproc
</pre>

If the software is working, information on the screens being cycled should appear in the '''LCDd''' server terminal, then go ahead and install the startup script as for the final section of Part 2.

I trust users will find these procedures helpful. Please edit the procedures if you find any errors.

==== Credits ====
Many many many people have contributed to this guide:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Frank (smi402)
| Ubuntu Forums: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5725313&postcount=12|here]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5731596&postcount=18|here]]</nowiki>
|-
| Dean
| http://codeka.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=22
|-
| Ron Frasier
| mythtvblog.blogspot: <nowiki>[[http://mythtvblog.blogspot.com/2008/04/getting-imon-0038-lcd-working-with-lirc.html|LIRCd]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://mythtvblog.blogspot.com/2008/04/getting-imon-0038-lcd-working-with.html|LCDProc]]</nowiki>
|-
| Cofin
| <nowiki>[[http://xbmc.org/forum/showthread.php?t=40290|XBMC Forum]]</nowiki>
|-
| Odin (odinb)
| Proofreading & Jaunty updates
|-
| Jeremy Yoder
| Original author of this page
|}

If I've missed your efforts please feel free to add yourself to the list above!

==== See Also ====
More links here??
----
CategoryHardware
