{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu 21.10 is the version of the Ubuntu operating system being released in October 2021. The development codename given to this release is "Impish Indri".

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 21.10 ("Impish Indri") from Ubuntu 21.04 ("Hirsute Hippo").
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ImpishIndri/ReleaseNotes|release notes for Ubuntu 21.10]]</nowiki>, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 21.04, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 21.04 to 21.10 ==

=== Upgrading Ubuntu Desktops to 21.10 ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''update-manager''' application.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings...''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Confirm the "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version:" option is set to "For any new version", and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them. /* , and press '''Check''' again after that is complete. */
# Run '''update-manager -d'''.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Kubuntu Desktops ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 21.10 are supported from Kubuntu 21.04.

* <nowiki>[[ImpishUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 21.04]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Servers ===

1. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
# Edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade -d
</pre>
1. Follow the on-screen instructions.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ImpishIndri/ReleaseNotes|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
