{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Keyboard ==

* <nowiki>[[MultimediaKeys|Multimedia Keyboard Help]]</nowiki> - How to get your keyboard's additional multimedia keys working in Ubuntu
* NumLock - Enabling Num Lock during startup
* HowToReadline - Add some extra editing keys to the command shell
* <nowiki>[[LogitechG15]]</nowiki> - Make Ubuntu recognize all of the special keys
* AppleKeyboard - Correct issues with USB Aluminium Apple Keyboard
* Define a key to enter international characters (a ComposeKey)

== Mouse ==

* <nowiki>[[ManyButtonsMouseHowto|Multi-buttoned Mouse]]</nowiki> - Getting the fourth, fifth or other extra buttons on your mouse working
* <nowiki>[[Logitech_MX610|Logitech MX610]]</nowiki> - Getting the E-Mail and IM LEDs and other buttons to function properly
* <nowiki>[[BluetoothMouse|Bluetooth Mouse]]</nowiki> - Getting your Bluetooth mouse to connect and resume automatically, once turned on.
* <nowiki>[[SerialMouseHowto|Serial Mouse]]</nowiki> - Getting your serial mouse to function
* <nowiki>[[Logitech_Marblemouse_USB|Logitech Marble Mouse USB]]</nowiki> - Getting the scroll function to work using fdi policy in the newest Xorg.
* <nowiki>[[AppleMagicMouse| Apple Magic Mouse]]</nowiki> - getting scroll from your Bluetooth magic mouse.

== Touchpad ==
* <nowiki>[[SynapticsTouchpad|Synaptics Touchpad]]</nowiki> - Setting up a Synaptics touchpad.

== Tablet ==
* See TabletSetup in order to setup your tablet.
* See BluetoothDevices to check which devices have been proven to work with Ubuntu Phone

== Remote ==
* ''Wii remote'' <nowiki>[[CWiiD]]</nowiki> - how to set up Ubuntu to use a Wiimote as a mouse, using the CWiiD library
* ''<nowiki>[[Logitech_UltraX_Remote]]</nowiki>''  - how to set up your remote 
----
CategoryHardware
