{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Troubleshooting ===
==== Check IVTV is initialized ====

Run:
 <pre>
dmesg |grep Initialized
</pre>

You should see something like:
 <pre>
ivtv: Initialized WinTV PVR 250, card #0
ivtv: Initialized WinTV PVR 350, card #1
</pre>
This example shows two cards.  If you only have one, you will see results similar to this:
 <pre>
ivtv: Initialized WinTV PVR 250, card #0 
</pre>

This is a good way to identify if the card even initially loaded.

==== Testing Capture ====
* After the driver is loaded, you can test it by doing a simple capture
  <pre>
cat /dev/video0 > /tmp/test_capture.mpg
</pre>
 Let this go for about 5 sec and then press <ctrl> + 'c'
* Attempt to play this back using your favorite media player.  (mplayer for the example) 
  <pre>
mplayer /tmp/test_capture.mpg
</pre>
* See if you have some recorded content coming up in the test capture.

==== Poor Audio Quality on a PVR-500 ====
If you are encountering distorted audio, this is a known issue with certain versions of the ivtv driver (and is apparent in the windows driver too).  Follow the directions below on this page to upgrade to a newer version.  Thanks to jlr4u for verifying that this solved the problem.
If you encounter issues still, post in this thread: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=345655

==== Diagnosing Problems ====
* Check dmesg to see if there are any errors loading firmware or anything like that.
 {{{ 
dmesg | tac | sed -n '/=\ \ END INIT IVTV\ \ =/,/= START INIT IVTV =/p;/= START INIT IVTV =/q' | tac
}}}

If you see any errors that are not covered below, go into #ubuntu and see if you can grab some help or post on the forums.

==== Errors during modprobe ====
If you encounter errors similar to:
 <pre>
sudo modprobe ivtv
FATAL: Error inserting ivtv (/lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/ivtv/ivtv.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
</pre>
and check <code>dmesg</code> to see similar things to this:
 <pre>
[17182375.312000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_unregister_device
[17182375.312000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_unregister_device
[17182375.312000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_device_alloc
[17182375.312000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_device_alloc
[17182375.312000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_register_device
[17182375.312000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_register_device
[17182375.312000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_device_release
[17182375.312000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_device_release
[17182762.044000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_unregister_device
[17182762.044000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_unregister_device
[17182762.044000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_device_alloc
[17182762.044000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_device_alloc
[17182762.044000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_register_device
[17182762.044000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_register_device
[17182762.044000] ivtv: disagrees about version of symbol video_device_release
[17182762.044000] ivtv: Unknown symbol video_device_release
</pre>
you will need to reinstall the running linux image.  This can be caused by overwriting the modules necessary for ivtv to work.

Reinstall the linux image:
 <pre>
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-image-`uname -r`
sudo depmod -a
</pre>

Follow the steps to rebuild the modules.

==== Resource allocation errors ====
There are two possible solutions to resource allocation problems:
* Be sure that you have enabled APIC on your machine's BIOS.  This will guarantee enough resources are allocated for the device.
 See http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284041 for more information.

* Add <code> vmalloc=192m </code> to your kernel boot parameters.

First make a copy of your old grub configuration. You should do this everytime you make an edit of grub.
<pre>
cp /boot/grub/menu.list /boot/grub/menu.list.backup
</pre>

 Edit /boot/grub/menu.lst to add the <code>vmalloc=192</code> to the end of your kernel line:
  <pre>
title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.17-10-server
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-10-server root=/dev/hda1 ro quiet splash vmalloc=192m
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-10-server
quiet
savedefault
boot
</pre>

