{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page shows how to set up a local DICT server and use Dictionary programs that are already included with Ubuntu to access locally stored dictionary.

1. Install DictD:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install dictd
</pre>

This installs a DICT server. Now you can install whatever dictionaries you want. Dictionaries are available in the repositories. A simple <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?su...&keywords=dict | package search]]</nowiki> will show many.

So to install a thesaurus, for example, use

<pre>
sudo apt-get install dict-moby-thesaurus
</pre>

2. To configure Dictionary, open the Dictionary program

3. Go into Edit -> Preference.

4. Click on "Add" to add a source.

5. Under "Description" give it a name like "Local Dictionaries", under "hostname" type "localhost" [REMINDER: In Jaunty and later you might try putting "127.0.0.1" (without the quotes) instead] and leave the port number the same. 

6. Now click "add".
And now whenever you're offline you can choose "Local Dictionaries" from "Dictionary Sources" and access your dictionaries offline.

---------

Originally posted in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=982326|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki>
