{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page has a few notes relating to the installation of Ubuntu (or perhaps other Linux distributions) on a <nowiki>[[http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/SYSTEMS/dim2350/|Dell Dimension 2350]]</nowiki>, a desktop computer released circa 2002.

== AGP vs. PCI video bug ==

The 2350 has an obscure hardware bug that prevents the integrated Intel (AGP) video adapter from being properly disabled when a PCI video adapter is added to the system. This bug tends to cause kernel panics, system freezes and/or other related crashes when booting up an Ubuntu system beyond text mode. (This continues to be the case as of Ubuntu 9.10 "Karmic.")

This occurs only when the system attempts to load kernel modules needed by the Intel video adapter, however, so it can be avoided by module blacklisting. Add the following two lines to `/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf` (or to a separate `.conf` file in that same directory):

<pre>
blacklist agpgart
blacklist intel-agp
</pre>

For more information on this problem, visit the following links:

* <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=507955|Debian bug #507955 "Oops in native_apic_write() on a Dell Dimension 2350"]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.15/+bug/26814/comments/4|Ubuntu bug #26814 "hangs on 'starting hotplug subsystems' when pci video is on", comment #4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=237141|Ubuntu forum thread "Dell video card ridiculousness"]]</nowiki>

== Ethernet flakiness ==

In the personal experience of the author, the 2350's onboard Broadcom Ethernet adapter is frustrating to use. Observed behavior includes the interface intermittently going down under heavy traffic, and PXE booting failing to work because no cable is detected (when the cable is indeed properly connected). Performance is significantly improved by installing and using a well-supported PCI Ethernet adapter instead. (The only real advantage to the onboard interface is that, due to BIOS limitations, it is the only one capable of PXE-booting the system.)

----
CategoryHardware CategoryInstallation
