{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== Introduction ==

When you reboot '''after installing Ubuntu on a big disk (>100GB)''', you may get a boot error (eg "GRUB rescue>", or "Error: unknown file system", or "error: Out of disk").

Here is how to solve this problem:

== Procedure ==
=== Step 1 - try the Recommended Repair of Boot-Repair ===

* Boot your computer on a <nowiki>[[UbuntuSecureRemix|Ubuntu-Secure-Remix]]</nowiki> liveCD or liveUSB
* choose "Try Ubuntu"
* launch <nowiki>[[Boot-Repair]]</nowiki> from the Dash (click the Ubuntu logo in the top-left corner of the screen, then type '''boot''' and click on the '''Boot-Repair''' icon that will appear).
* click the '''"Recommended repair"''' button
* reboot the computer
* '''if you still can't access Ubuntu, go to Step 2 below.'''

=== Step 2 - try the out-of-disk option ===

* Boot your computer on a <nowiki>[[UbuntuSecureRemix|Ubuntu-Secure-Remix]]</nowiki> liveCD or liveUSB
* choose "Try Ubuntu"
* launch <nowiki>[[Boot-Repair]]</nowiki> from the Dash (click the Ubuntu logo in the top-left corner of the screen, then type '''boot''' and click on the '''Boot-Repair''' icon that will appear).
* click "Advanced option"
* go to the "GRUB options" tab
* tick the '''"out-of-disk"''' option
* click "Apply"
* reboot the computer
* '''if you still can't access Ubuntu, go to Step 3 below.'''

=== Step 3 - Create a separate boot partition ===

* follow the following procedure: <nowiki>[[BootPartition|HOWTO create a separate -boot partition]]</nowiki>.
* reboot the computer. You should now get access to Ubuntu.

== Remarks ==

- '''if you need help''', please create your new own thread <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/newthread.php?do=newthread&f=333|here]]</nowiki> (don't forget to indicate the URL you noted on your paper at Step6, this will give valuable information to understand your problem)

== External Links ==

- <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2027548|Discussion thread on ubuntuforums for any question/comment about this tutorial]]</nowiki>. (this is not a thread for support)
