{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu's default web browser is Mozilla Firefox.  Some web sites require Internet Explorer for full functionality, and it is possible to make the browser claim to be Internet Explorer.

To install Internet Explorer you will need to install two components first, <nowiki>[[Wine]]</nowiki> and cab extract.
<pre>
sudo apt-get install wine cabextract
</pre>

To finish the install you need to download Internet Explorer.
<pre>
wget http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/downloads/ies4linux-latest.tar.gz
tar zxvf ies4linux-latest.tar.gz
cd ies4linux-*
./ies4linux
</pre>
This should open up a GUI.  In the case of Command Line being used:

<pre>
Welcome, ! I'm IEs4Linux.
I can install IE 6, 5.5 and 5.0 for you easily and quickly.
You are just four 'enter's away from your IEs.

I'll ask you some questions now. Just answer y or n (default answer is the bold one)

IE 6 will be installed automatically.
Do you want to install IE 5.5 SP2 too? [ y / n ]
</pre>
Select '''y''' to install.
<pre>
And do you want to install IE 5.01 SP2? [ y / n ]
</pre>
<pre>
IEs can be installed using one of the following locales:
EN-US PT-BR DE FR ES IT NL SV JA KO NO
DA CN TW FI PL HU AR HE CS PT RU EL TR
Default is EN-US. Hit enter to keep it or choose a different one:
</pre>
Hit enter to select the default language or choose another.
<pre>
By default, I will install everything at /home/.../.ies4linux
I will also install Flash 9 plugin and create Desktop shortcuts.
Is that ok for you? (To configure advanced options type n) [ y / n ]
</pre>

Internet Explorer will now install!

----
CategoryInstallation CategoryInternet
