{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Discussion of this wiki can be found <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2012396 | here ]]</nowiki>

== MultiBootUSB ==

* Download the latest windows binary/source from '''<nowiki>[[https://sourceforge.net/projects/multibootusb/files/Windows/| here]]</nowiki>''' 

* Download the latest Linux package from '''<nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/multibootusb/files/Linux/| here]]</nowiki>''' 

Send your feedback at '''feedback.multibootusb@gmail.com'''

'''Note:''' Though this script will not format your USB drive / Pendrive it is advised to take backup of USB data before invoking the script.

== What is MultibootUSB ==

MultibootUSB is a shell script written by A Ramesh Kumar and Sundar. Main intention of this program is to install multiple Linux distribution in to single USB disk / Flash drive / Pendrive and able to boot from it with less dependency issue. All you need is your favorite distros in iso format and FAT formatted USB disk. Read the rest to find more.

== Main Features ==

Automatically detects all inserted USB derive / Pendrive and allow you to choose one.

 Uses GRUB 2 as boot manager

 It can boot hybrid iso images directly (if the distro has the support)

 Ubuntu and Ubuntu based distros like Linux mint can be booted from same pendrive.

 It uses Zenity as GUI and no commands need to be typed in the terminal (except to invoke the program/script)

 As of now this script supports 81+ distros

== System Requirement ==

PC / Laptop which has the option to boot from USB. 

 Any latest Linux distribution with GRUB 2 as boot manager. Recommended OS is Ubuntu 10.04 and above.

 One or more Linux ISO image(s) of your choice (Only supported by the script)

== License ==

You can redistribute this program and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or later. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public   <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/licenses/ |license]]</nowiki> for more details.

== How to use/run the script ==

 
* Extract it to your home folder (Right click --&gt; Extract here)

* Open terminal and move to the script folder (cd MultiBootUSB)

* Provide root permission (su) and type ./MultiBootUSB.sh and hit enter (for Ubuntu just type sudo ./MultiBootUSB.sh with out issuing su command)

* Here after follow on screen instructions 

* Screenshots can be found in doc folder for reference.

== List of distributions supported ==
1. Archiso Live
2. Aptisid
3. Austrumi
4. AVG Rescue CD 
5. Backtrack
6. Bit Defender Rescue CD
7. Bodhi Linux
8. CD linux
9. Chakra Linux
10. Clonezilla Live
11. CrunchBang
12. CTK Arch Live 
13. Debian
14. Deli
15. Doudolinux
16. Dream Linux
17. Dynebolic
18. Elive
19. Fedora*
20. Fuduntu
21. GeexBox
22. Goblinx
23. Gnome 3.0 - Fedora
24. Gnome 3.0 - Open SUSE
25. Gparted Live
26. GRML
27. HBCD
28. Igolaware
29. Imagine OS
30. Jolicloud
31. Kaspersky Rescue CD
32. Knoppix
34. Kubuntu*
35. Linux Mint*
36. Linux Mint - DE
37. Lubuntu
38. Manriva One
39. Me OS
40. Moon OS
41. Nimblex
42. Open SUSE
43. Ophcrack Live CD
44. Panda Rescue CD
45. Pardus
46. PCLinux OS*
47. Pentoo
48. Peppermint OS
49. PinGuy OS
50. Parted Magic
51. Pure OS
52. Puppy*
53. Rescue CD (System Rescue CD)
54. RIP Linux
55. Saline OS
56. Sabayon Linux
57. Scientific Linux
58. Sidux
59. Simply Mepis
60. SLAMPP
61. Slax
62. Slitaz
63. Stress Linux
64. Tiny Core
65. UBCD
66. Ubuntu*
67. Ubuntu Netboot*
68. Ubuntu Rescue
69. Ubuntu Ultimate Edition
70. Unity Linux
71. Vector Linux
72. Windows/NT Password / registery editor
73. Xpud
74. Xubuntu*
75. YLMF
76. Zenwalk
77. Zeven OS
78. Zorin OS
79. Salix Live
80. Free DOS
81. SAM Linux
82. Absolute Linux
83. Apodio
84. Arch Linux 32 Bit
85. Arch Bang
86. DEFT Linux
87. Express Linux
88. LDR
89. Porteus
90. Redo Backup Live CD
91. Tails
92. Mageia Linux
93. Calculate Linux
94. Vidalinux
95. MeeGO
96. Dam Small Linux
97. Elementary OS
98. Netrunner
99. Webconvergence
100.FreeBSD ...and many more.
'''

'''Please give your feedback, suggestions, request for new features and comments as reply.'''

Originally posted <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1518273|The Ubuntu Forums (ubuntuforums.org)]]</nowiki>
