{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Current Ubuntu Server installer ===

The '''<nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/download/server|current Ubuntu Server installer]]</nowiki>''' features:

* Support for '''all Ubuntu Server architectures''':
   x86-64, ARM v7, ARM64, POWER9/POWER10, IBM zSystems and LinuxONE (s390x), RISC-V
* '''PXE and HTTP boot'''
* '''SSH based install'''
* '''Offline and network-gapped install''' (serial console)
* '''Autoinstall''' (unattended mode)
* '''RAID, LVM, LUKS support''' and several filesystem configurations

<nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/how-to|Installation guides]]</nowiki> are available for using the new installer on various architectures, including for netboot scenarios. Get help migrating to the current Ubuntu Server installer on <nowiki>[[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/server|Ubuntu Discourse]]</nowiki>!

This installer is based on the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity|Subiquity]]</nowiki> installer software. It was previously referred to as "server live installer". It uses <nowiki>[[https://curtin.readthedocs.io/|curtin]]</nowiki> for disk partitioning. On the installation target, <nowiki>[[https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/|cloud-init]]</nowiki> handles the initial network configuration.

=== Status of the Minimal ISO image ===

'''Ubuntu 18.04 LTS was the last Ubuntu release which "mini.iso" images were produced for.''' These images, which Canonical and the Ubuntu project never officially supported, were always limited to BIOS booting on the amd64 and i386 platforms only. They existed as a by-product of building the old server installer (based on "debian-installer"; later called "alternative installer"). 

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS mini.iso:

* <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/main/installer-amd64/current/images/netboot/|amd64]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/main/installer-amd64/current/images/|checksums and signatures]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/|i386]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic-updates/main/installer-i386/current/images/|checksums and signatures]]</nowiki>)

=== For reference: The old mini.iso ===

==== Introduction ====

The minimal iso image will download packages from online archives at installation time instead of providing them on the install media itself.  Downloading packages at install time reduces the size of the iso image to approximately ~40MB depending on architecture (see below), as well as providing only the packages needed for installation.  The download time savings achieved by using a mini iso can be significant, as only current packages are downloaded, so there is no need to upgrade packages immediately after installation.  The mini iso uses a text-based installer, making the image as compact as possible.

To use the mini iso image download '''mini.iso''' from one of the following links and burn it to a CD or USB drive.

* For help with CD burning, see <nowiki>[[BurningIsoHowto]]</nowiki>
* For help with USB drive burning, see <nowiki>[[Installation-FromUSBStick]]</nowiki>
* For differences between Ubuntu release versions, please see Ubuntu:Releases.

To install, boot your computer from the the mini iso and select "Install" at the prompt.  You can then follow the instructions from the text-based installer.  On the software selection screen, you can select from a number of collections of software such as different desktop environments (kde, xfce, etc), a multitude of different servers, multimedia creation tools, media center (mythbuntu), etc.  You can also select "Manual package selection" which will take you to aptitude.  You may also select nothing and just continue to finish the installation.  If you selected nothing, upon reboot you will arrive at a cli prompt; from here you can fully customize your new system.

===== UEFI mode =====

While the minimal iso image is handy, it isn't useful for installing on UEFI-based systems that you want to run in UEFI mode. The mini iso lacks the proper files for booting the computer in UEFI mode. Thus, the computer will boot in BIOS compatibility mode, and the installation will be in BIOS mode.

You can use an '''Ubuntu Server amd64 iso file''' (64-bit) for 'mini installations' in UEFI mode. There is a compressed image file '''dd_text_16.04-UEFI-n-BIOS-4-pendrive-7.8GB.img.xz''' of such an installed system, that can be used as a start of a custom installation.

See this link: <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/UEFI-and-BIOS/stable-alternative|Installation/UEFI-and-BIOS/stable-alternative]]</nowiki>.

==== 64-bit PC (amd64, x86_64) (Recommended) ====

* <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic/main/installer-amd64/current/images/netboot/mini.iso|Ubuntu 18.04 "Bionic Beaver"]]</nowiki> 64MB (MD5: 8388f7232b400bdc80279668847f90da, SHA1: cce936c1f9d1448c7d8f74b76b66f42eb4f93d4a)

==== 32-bit PC (i386, x86) ====

* <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/bionic/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/mini.iso|Ubuntu 18.04 "Bionic Beaver"]]</nowiki> 57MB (MD5: c7b21dea4d2ea037c3d97d5dac19af99, SHA1: a2a3b9c952ffa774ef77974e4e98ed5a9cdba2c8)

==== General link that seems reliable ====

This general link has worked for some years, and seems to be kept up to date. It helps you to find and download fully functional official Ubuntu '''mini.iso''' files 

<nowiki>[[http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/netboot/]]</nowiki>
