{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Installation ==

<pre>
apt-get install phpldapadmin
</pre>

== Configuration ==

You've several choices when it comes to configuring phpldapadmin.  You can use the included apache script (/etc/phpldapadmin/apache.conf), or you can copy /usr/share/phpldapadmin to you webroot, in which case you can have multiple installations.

For the former approach, just edit /etc/phpldapadmin/config.php.  You'll probably need to change the following lines:
<pre>
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','name','My LDAP Server');  // The name to display
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','host','127.0.0.1');  // Address of the LDAP server
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','port','389');   // Port number
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','base',array('dc=example,dc=com'));  // Base dn
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'login','string','uid=<username>,ou=People,dc=example,dc=com');
</pre>

For the latter approach, make a copy of the installation directory <pre>
cp -R /usr/share/phpldapadmin /var/www/myphpldapadmin
</pre>

Since we're setting up for multiple installs, we'll give each one a different config file<pre>
cp /etc/phpldapadmin/config.php /etc/phpldapadmin/first.config.php
rm /var/www/myphpldapadmin/config/config.php
ln -s /etc/phpldapadmin/first.config.php /var/www/myphpldapadmin/config/config.php
chmod +r /etc/phpldapadmin/first.config.php
</pre>

Now customize the config file.  You'll probably need to change the following lines:<pre>
$config->custom->session['blowfish'] = '';  //Add a random string for encryption purposes
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','name','My LDAP Server');  // The name to display
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','host','127.0.0.1');  // Address of the LDAP server
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','port','389');   // Port number
$ldapservers->SetValue($i,'server','base',array('dc=example,dc=com'));  // Base dn
</pre>

The config file is *very* well commented, and a little reading should get you all you need.
