{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Installing the GNU C compiler and GNU C++ compiler ==

To install the '''gcc''' and '''g++''' compilers, you will need the <code>build-essential</code> package. This will also install '''GNU make'''. 

<code>build-essential</code> contains a list of packages which are essential for building Ubuntu packages including gcc compiler, make and other required tools.

<pre>
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get upgrade
$ sudo apt-get install build-essential
$ gcc -v
$ make -v
</pre>

Now, you should able to compile software using C / C++ compilers.

To install the manpages for '''c''' and '''c++''' development, install the <code>manpages-dev</code> package.

== Installing the GNU Java compiler ==

Note that GNU's Java compiler is not the same as the one developed and distributed by Sun Microsystems, and will not provide Java to the firefox browser. For that, please see <nowiki>[[Java]]</nowiki>. To install '''gcj''', the GNU Java compiler, install the following package: <code>gcj</code>.

'''gcj''' can be used to:
# compile .java files to bytecode (.class files).
# compile .java files to a linux-executable.

To install the GNU Java bytecode interpreter, you need the <code>gij</code> package.

To have '''gcj''' compile to executables, install libgcj6-dev (otherwise an error during compilation occurs: libgcj.spec: No such file or directory). 
Use '''synaptic''' to install libgcj6-dev.

== Installing the GNU Fortran compilers ==

To install the GNU Fortran 77 compiler - '''g77''', you need the <code>g77</code> package.

To install the GNU Fortran 95 compiler - '''gfortran''', the package is:  <code>gfortran</code>.

== Installing the GNU autotools ==

To install '''autoconf''' and '''automake''', you need the <code>autoconf</code> and <code>automake</code> packages.

Apt-get will tell you to explicitly choose a version of automake. If, for example, you decide to use automake1.9, you need to specify the version, such as the  <code>automake1.9</code> package.

== 32-bit Builds on AMD64 ==

The GNU compilers have options that allow them to create 32-bit object and executable files on 64-bit operating systems, and vica versa. The critical options are '''-m32''' (to build 32-bit) and '''-m64''' (to build 64-bit).

These options will be present when you install the compiler of your choice. However, they won't actually work unless you install several additional packages.

The first thing you will need is the multilib package for the compiler you are using. For example, to add multilib support to the default version of g++ (4.1 in gutsy), you would install {g++-multilib}. For 4.2, you would need {g++-4.2-multilib}.

The multilib packages are compiler runtime packages. Now, you need 32-bit (or 64-bit) versions of whatever libraries you need to link your application program. 64-bit packages have names that start with '''lib64'''. Install these on 32-bit systems to support 64-bit builds. 32-bit packages have names that start with '''lib32'''. Install these on 64-bit systems to support 32-bit builds. Whatever else you are doing, you will probably need {libNNgcc1}. If you are using g++, you will need {libNNstdc++6}.

== Installing the Intel Compiler Suite Professional Edition 10.x ==

Using the Intel compilers for C, C++, and FORTRAN requires installing 32-bit libraries for Ubuntu if you are using a 64-bit system. Please ensure you have these packages: 

# <code>gcc</code>, <code>build-essential</code>, <code>libc6-dev</code> (see above)
# <code>ia32-libs</code>, <code>g++-multilib</code>, and <code>libc6-dev-i386</code> (for '''64-bit''' systems)
# 32-bit packages starting with '''lib32''' (for '''64-bit''' systems)
# <code>alien</code> and <code>rpm</code> for installing the RPM packages that Intel distributes.
# <code>libstdc++5</code> and <code>libstdc++5-3.3-dev</code> for good measure because Intel's builds depend on these runtimes.

before you attempt installing the Intel Compiler Suite.

=== Get the License Number and Extract to a path without spaces ===
Ensure that you have obtained the license number for your installation and extracted
the downloaded installation archive into a path that '''does not contain any spaces'''.
This last statement is utterly important.  The installer script that comes with 
the package has a bug that does not allow you to install the compiler suite if you have
any spaces in the installer script path.

=== On 64-bit systems you may also need to issue these commands ===
<pre>
</pre>

because the chklic_32_64 license checking utility from Intel dynamically links to these libraries.

Once you're done preparing to install the compiler suite, it's time to go to the installer directory and
install the compiler (be sure to also read through accompanying documentation; e.g., README, INSTALL.txt):

=== Run the Installation Script ===
<pre>
$ cd /home/user/intel_compiler_suite
$ sudo ./install.sh
...Follow the wizard as it guides you through the installation process.
</pre>

After installing the compiler, you need to tell your shell the location of these executables
by adding their parent paths to the '''PATH''' environment variable.

=== Edit /etc/bash.bashrc to add the installation path to the PATH environment variable ===
<pre>
export PATH=/opt/intel/cc/10.1.012/bin:/opt/intel/idb/10.1.012/bin:${PATH}
</pre>

Where '''10.1.012''' is the version of the compiler suite installed.

For more information:
<nowiki>[[http://support.intel.com/support/performancetools/sb/CS-025939.htm|Intel Compiler Suite 10.x support page for Ubuntu Linux]]</nowiki>

== Installing the X11 development compilers ==

Install script for X11 development libs 

<pre>
$ sudo apt-get -y install libx11-dev
</pre>

----
