{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Why this installation method? ==
Because I have a laptop/desktop with neither CD drive nor Floppy drive that can actually make the machine boot from. However, I do have a PCMCIA Cd drive.

If you don't have the PCMCIA Cd drive, I believe there's a way to install from a partition (usually <code>/dev/the_partition</code>) you mount during installation procedure.

<!> If you have an URL we can use for that method, please provide it.

----

== Hardware used for this ==
I successfully did it on:

* Fujitsu Lifebook B2175
* Celeron 500 MHz
* 256 MB of Ram
* 20 GB of HD
* PCMCIA CD drive
* Ubuntu previously installed on ''server'' mode via <nowiki>[[http://www.edubuntu.org/InstallationViaNetBoot|Edubuntu NetBoot]]</nowiki>
* Edubuntu CD (latest breezy .iso at the time I am writing this)

== Software used ==

* Edubuntu or any GnuLinux distro should do fine.
* GRUB
* <code>vmlinuz</code> and <code>initrd.gz</code> files

== Preparing the booting ==
 
* Mount the Edubuntu Cd to a dir you have access to or create a new directory (it depends on what permissions you have to work on the current system).
** As for this HowTo I am using a previously installed Ubuntu on ''server'' mode, I created a <code>/mnt/CdDrive</code> directory, and then mounted <code>/dev/hdc</code> on it, which is the PCMCIA Cd drive.

<pre>
$ mkdir /mnt/CdDrive
$ mount /dev/hdc /mnt/CdDrive
</pre>

* Get the <code>vmlinuz</code> and <code>initrd.gz</code> files from the Edubuntu Cd.

== Edit Grub file ==
Let's set menu.lst to read our <code>vmlinuz</code> and <code>initrd.gz</code> files.

/!\ Ooops! I apologize but I have lost the URL where I found the lines to set GRUB. If you know the lines, please do provide them.

<pre>
PLACE THE LINES HERE
</pre>

== Reboot ==
Now, let's reboot and cross fingers :)

----
CategoryInstallation
