{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


[InternetAndNetworking]
----

This guide is for setting up an Internet connection under Ubuntu 9:04 or higher 

=== Introduction ===

Once Ubuntu is installed and running, one of the first things you may want to do is to get connected to the Internet. This can be useful for installing software and getting help.

This task is usually very simple, however it requires a minimum of involvement on your part. Of course, you will need to be subscribed to an <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_service_provider|Internet Service Provider]]</nowiki>, and have Internet connection installed and functional.

There are several ways to connect to Internet, depending on what type of connection you have. You could have broadband (i.e. ADSL), dialup (i.e. a 56 kbit/s modem) or access to Internet directly via your Local Area Network (wireless or ethernet or other).

Jump to the section corresponding to your type of connection. See NetworkAdmin and NetworkDevices if you need to configure your device.

=== Broadband ===

If you have an ADSL or cable modem there are several possibilities, depending on the type of modem.

==== Ethernet Modem (pppoe) ====

If your modem connects to your PC with an ethernet network cable you probably want to setup a pppoe connection. However, nowadays many modems also integrate a router, in this case you should follow the instructions provided by the manufacturer, you may find extra help in the Local Area Network section below (if you configure the device via a web interface, it probably has an integrated router).

In order to setup a pppoe connection, please see <nowiki>[[ADSLPPPoE]]</nowiki>.

==== USB modem ====

This is probably the the most demanding type of modem to set up, USB is far from the ideal medium for network access. If you can get your hands on an ethernet modem you may save yourself some trouble. If you have a modem that can connect both via USB and ethernet you should use the ethernet connection.

If you have a ADSL usb modem, you should refer to the <nowiki>[[UsbAdslModem]]</nowiki>

=== Dialup ===

If you have a dialup connection, a 56 kbit/s or slower modem, you should refer to the <nowiki>[[DialupModemHowto]]</nowiki>. This inscludes USB cell modems.

=== Local Area Network - wireless, ethernet or other ===

If you connect to the Internet via a Local Area Network, the configuration depends entirely on your network.

Configuration information should be provided by your network administrator.

If you connect via a router on a home network, you should read the router's documentation, the default Ubuntu configuration may work without further configuration.

You may have to configure the interface through which you connect to use DHCP (dynamic configuration, usually the default) or specify an IP address, default gateway or DNS server.

You must have your ethernet or Wifi card working before starting to configure Internet access, you may find information on hardware here : <nowiki>[[NetworkDevices]]</nowiki>

=== Mobile phone ===

If you wish to connect to the Internet with the modem integrated into a modern mobile phone, you may find helpful information in BluetoothDialup, about configuring PPP dialup through a Bluetooth-compatible mobile phone, or in CableDialup for connecting with a mobile phone via a USB cable.

=== iBurst ===

To connect with iBurst wireless Internet access, see MobileWirelessBroadband.

=== IPwireless mobile broadband ===

To connect with sentech mywireless internet access, see IpwirelessPcmcia.

=== Mobile broadband ===

Jaunty Jackolope (9.04) and Karmic Koala (9.10) featured enhanced support for setting up mobile broadband. It supports most major mobile carriers. To set your interface up you can click the Network manager icon in your tray and follow the instructions.

== Internet Connection Sharing ==

See <nowiki>[[Internet-ConnectionSharing]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryInternet CategoryNetworking
