{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page contains information about connecting to the Internet and working with networks. If you require information about applications which use the Internet, <nowiki>[[InternetApplications|Internet Applications]]</nowiki> may be of interest.

=== Networking basics ===
* <nowiki>[[NetworkDevices|Network Devices]]</nowiki> - Information on installation of Internet and network related '''hardware'''.
* <nowiki>[[WifiDocs|Wifi Docs]]</nowiki> - A list of pages relating to setting up and configuring wireless Internet.
* The Internet section of the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/|official Ubuntu documentation]]</nowiki> contains advice on connecting to the Internet.
* <nowiki>[[HomeServer|Home server]]</nowiki> - Creating and configuring a home server.
* <nowiki>[[VPNServer|VPN server]]</nowiki> - Securing a small Wireless network using VPN
* <nowiki>[[VPNClient|VPN client]]</nowiki> - Setting up your computer to be able to connect to a network that offers VPN access.
* <nowiki>[[Security]]</nowiki> - A general guide to security
* <nowiki>[[AutomaticConnections]]</nowiki> - A list of automatic connections that Ubuntu makes and a guide how to stop them

=== Network control ===
==== Network configuration ====
* <nowiki>[[IptablesHowTo|IPTables]]</nowiki> - An introduction to the powerful Linux IPTables firewall
* <nowiki>[[ShorewallBasics|Shorewall]]</nowiki> - Getting a strong firewall up and running
* <nowiki>[[DynamicDNS|Dynamic DNS]]</nowiki> - How to make your computer accessible from 'outside', even without a fixed IP address.
* <nowiki>[[StaticDnsWithDhcp|Static DNS with DHCP]]</nowiki> - Use static DNS servers while using DHCP.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkThrottling|Network throttling]]</nowiki> - Throttle outbound/inbound network throughput.
* <nowiki>[[InternetAndNetworking-DualHomedGatewayDHCP|Configuring more than one Internet connection on the same computer]]</nowiki> - Use more than one ISP even using dynamic IP address.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkConnectionBridge|Bridged networking]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Network802.1xAuthentication|Authenticating to a network using the IEEE 802.1x protocol.]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ServersBehindNAT|Servers Behind NAT]]</nowiki> - Configuring servers to work behind NAT firewalls
* <nowiki>[[http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/ubuntu-linux-creating-ethernet-alias-for-eth0-network-device.html|Creating ethernet alias for eth0 network device]]</nowiki>

==== Network monitoring ====
* <nowiki>[[HowToMonitorInternetTrafficTotals|Monitor Internet traffic totals]]</nowiki> - Monitor the amount of data uploaded and download from the Internet.
* <nowiki>[[CactiHowTo|Cacti]]</nowiki> - This guide is for setting up a base install of Cacti on Ubuntu (Alternative to MRTG).

=== Accessing networked resources ===
==== Direct access ====
* <nowiki>[[SSH|SSH]]</nowiki> - Use SSH to log into other machines remotely. See <nowiki>[[AdvancedOpenSSH]]</nowiki> for enhanced security.
* <nowiki>[[VNC]]</nowiki> - Share your desktop over a local network or over the Internet.
* <nowiki>[[TFTP]]</nowiki> - Trivial File Transfer Protocol is a simple way to allow a client to get files from, or put files to, a remote host.

==== Filesystem Access ====
* <nowiki>[[MountWindowsSharesPermanently|Mounting Windows shares]]</nowiki> - How to mount a sharable Windows drive permanently with <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samba_(software)|Samba]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[iFolder]]</nowiki> - Install and configure iFolder to share and synchronize files over the network.
* <nowiki>[[SettingUpNFSHowTo|NFS]]</nowiki> - How to set up Ubuntu to connect to an NFS server.
* <nowiki>[[SSHFS]]</nowiki> - How to use sshfs to mount a remote directory through an ssh tunnel.

==== Terminal servers ====
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuLTSP|Linux Terminal Server Project (LTSP)]]</nowiki> - Shiny new thin-clients and legacy PCs alike can be used to browse the Web, send e-mail, create documents, and run other desktop applications.
* <nowiki>[[CitrixICAClientHowTo|Citrix ICA Client]]</nowiki> - Setting up the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citrix#Citrix_Delivery_Center|Citrix]]</nowiki> client for Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[CitrixXenAppPlugin|Citrix XenApp browser plugin]]</nowiki> - Setting up your browser to run the Citrix ICA client.
* <nowiki>[[CitrixConnect2School|Citrix Connect2School]]</nowiki> - Setting up a Citrix educational web client on Ubuntu.

----
CategoryApplications CategoryInternet CategoryNetworking CategorySoftware
