{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==
A third party source provides the '''ipod-convenience''' package needed to properly mount and unmount an iPhone or iPod Touch, and for gtkpod users, a newer gtkpod is required for the iPhone and iPod Touch.

=== Extra steps for versions pre-Ubuntu 8.04 LTS (Hardy Heron) ===
Add the main Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy Gibbon) repository:
# Click '''System''' -> '''Administration''' -> '''Synaptic Package Manager'''. 
# Once Synaptic starts, click '''Settings''' -> '''Repositories''' -> '''Third Party Software'''. 
# Click '''Add...''' and use <code>deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/ipod-touch/ubuntu gutsy main</code> as the APT line. (this source should have a key file to avoid the prompt to install without authentication).
# Click '''Reload'''
----
# Before installing newer packages, make sure to first uninstall '''libgpod'''.
# Install the '''ipod-convenience''' package, as well as either '''amarok''' or '''gtkpod''' (or both if you like). When asked, enter the IP address of your iPod Touch or iPhone that you selected earlier. When asked for a folder to mount your iPod Touch or iPhone, either leave the default of '''/media/ipod''' or another folder if you prefer - just remember to use that folder name for rest of this guide. The package will make the folder for you.

# Plug in your iPod Touch or iPhone via USB. This is '''REQUIRED''' when you run the next steps for the first time, as the USB connection is used to generate a hash required by the iTunes Database (if this fails to generate properly, see the troubleshooting section below). An added benefit is this also makes sure that your device won't turn the wifi into low power mode, breaking the transfer connection.
# When done, click '''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Terminal'''. To mount your device, run: <pre>
$ iphone-mount
or
$ ipod-touch-mount
</pre> When prompted, enter your iPhone or iPod Touch's root password - by default, '''dottie''' in firmware 1.0 and '''alpine''' in 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4.
1. Unmount your device, by running: <pre>
$ iphone-umount
or
$ ipod-touch-umount
</pre>
