{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Amarok 1.X ==

Note: This guide is written for Amarok 1.X only. Instructions for Amarok v2.x are available <nowiki>[[PortableDevices-iPhone|here]]</nowiki>.

1. Click '''Applications''' -> '''Sound and Video''' -> '''Amarok'''
When you first open up Amarok:

# Click '''Settings''' -> '''Configure Amarok'''.
# Choose '''Media Devices'''.
# Hit '''Add Device'''.
# Select '''Apple iPod Media Device''' for the plugin type.
# Point it at your mount point, the default being '''/media/ipod''' unless you chose another one when setting up ipod-convenience.
# Back in the main app, click the blue cog icon called '''Configure Device''' just above the iPhone or iPod Touch. For '''Pre-Connect Command''', add '''iphone-mount''' (or '''ipod-touch-mount'''), for the '''Post-Disconnect Command''', add '''iphone-umount''' (or '''ipod-touch-umount''')
# In Devices, click '''Connect'''. After entering your password, your iPhone or iPod touch should now appear in Amarok.
# Once connected, click on the double arrows on the right hand side of the '''Connect''', '''Disconnect''', and '''Transfer''' buttons. A list of options opens up, one of which is '''iPod'''.  Choose '''iPod''' -> '''Set iPod Model''' -> '''Mobile Phones''' -> '''iPhone''' (or your specific iPod Touch model).
# iPod Touch 1st Generation works best as '''Mobile Phones -> iPhone''', including cover transfer.
