{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



The new 5th generation iPods, or iPod Videos, are fully supported under Ubuntu, but it takes a bit of tweaking.  This wiki page is designed to help you fully utilize your iPod Video in Ubuntu.  All of these things have been tested under Ubuntu 5.10 (Breezy Badger) "only".  If you have success on Warty, Hoary, or Dapper, post it here.

To utilize your iPod Video, you first have to make videos for your iPod, and then transfer them to it.  There are two guides explaining exactly how to do these steps:

'''<nowiki>[[iPodVideoEncoding|Encoding Videos for the iPod Video]]</nowiki>'''

'''<nowiki>[[iPodVideoTransferring|Transferring Videos to the iPod Video]]</nowiki>'''

Additionally, you can automatically install encoding and transferring support for your iPod Video, as well as a GUI program for Gnome that automatically rips and encodes DVDs, or just simply encodes a video on your computer to iPod Video format.  The program is called '''iPod Video Encoder''' and can be found <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=114946|here]]</nowiki>.

=== Credits ===

'''Original Sources:'''

* http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=108255
* http://clug.net.nz/index.php/IpodSupportUnderLinux
* A page that I can't find right now that supplied me with the correct ffmpeg command...I'd really like to give credit to them, but I can't seem to find it.  If anybody finds it, let me know, and I'll update this to give them full credit.

'''Much thanks to:'''

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=39464|Iandefor]]</nowiki> for countless suggestions, bugfixes, and corrections.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=10869|Dromio]]</nowiki> for corrections.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=33815|quietglow]]</nowiki> for corrections and the .deb support for mpeg4ip
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=9507|pestilence4hr]]</nowiki> for corrections regarding the building of ffmpeg
