{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Infrastructure Systems Development ==
The ISD team in Canonical develops non-platform services such as Single Sign-On (SSO / OpenID provider) and the back end server side of Software Center, among other things.

This page is an index to the public FAQs and knowledge bases for ISD's projects.

== FAQs ==

=== Ubuntu SSO FAQs ===
<nowiki>[[SSO-FAQs|OpenID login - account issues (SSO)]]</nowiki>

=== Ubuntu Pay FAQs ===
<nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs|Software Center purchase issues]]</nowiki>

== Contact ==

If you have an issue related to one of ISD's projects, please check the FAQ list below for help.  If you have checked this list and still need to contact a support representative in ISD, send email to isd-support@canonical.com .

'''WARNING''': ISD support provides support only for issues with the Ubuntu One Single Sign-On service. Any issues not related to Ubuntu One SSO will be ignored. If in doubt, try to access https://login.ubuntu.com with your credentials. If that works, then your problem is NOT with Ubuntu One SSO and you should look elsewhere for help.

If you need help with general Ubuntu issues you have two main choices.

The first is to rely on free support provided by the Ubuntu community. For this please visit https://www.ubuntu.com/support/community-support or post your questions directly in http://askubuntu.com/ or https://ubuntuforums.org/.

The second if you're looking for commercial-grade support, is to check out Canonical's support offerings for Ubuntu at https://www.ubuntu.com/support.

If you need support for a purchase issue, contact pay-support@canonical.com instead.
