{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== F-3000 ===

* Email:  *AIM: f3000d
* http://www.atkkierratys.com/?&k=en

I've installed Kubuntu 7.10 into my ex-girlfriend's laptop, Acer Extensa 5220. Not the easiest job for a beginner. <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-AcerExtensa5220]]</nowiki>

I've installed Kubuntu 7.10 into my ex-girlfriend's laptop, HP Pavilion dv6000. <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPPaviliondv6000]]</nowiki>

I've installed Ubuntu 8.04 into my friend's laptop, HP Pavilion dv2000. (no own page, unless <nowiki>[[LaptopTestingTeam-HPDV2000Z|dv2000z]]</nowiki> can be counted as same) 

I've installed Ubuntu 8.04 into my friend's laptop, Acer !TravelMate 240. (no own page)

I've installed Ubuntu 8.04 Server into my laptop, HP !OmniBook 4150. (no own page - yet)

I'm using Ubuntu 8.04 in my laptop, Acer eMachines E620. I shall be adding info later.

(Latest change in 02.05.2009)

First off, my experiences with "Ubuntu vs. Kubuntu" has strongly gone in favor for Ubuntu. Ubuntu has more applications with GUIs, for example. Kubuntu ''seems to be'' a bit more unstable as DE. But both of them have a habit of going more unstable (especially apps) the more user customizes the appearance of the DE. Most of all, Ubuntu is more clear to begin with than Kubuntu for users who are using Linux for the first time.

Most marvelous addition that 8.04 brought to Ubuntu was that KDE applications can be used in Gnome. For example, Kate is very nice text-editor for a coder, and capable of doing things that Gedit fails to.

=== Acer Extensa 5220 ===

==== My experiences so far with this laptop and Kubuntu: ====
 Lesson 1. Install Kubuntu with net-availability. It actually does make life easier, and things actually works afterwards.

 Lesson 2. Kubuntu cannot connect to wlan router which has "bad ESSID", but doesn't bother to inform about this either. In other words, don't use scandinavian letters (like ä and ö) in ESSID, if you want to make it to work. (for comparison, Vista (*spits*) had no problems with Ä-letter)

==== For "easy install", this is simple to-do-list: ====
1. Install using english. This should prevent any language-set based bugs striking in (yet).
2. Make single upgrade for starters (I used Adept): upgrade libqt3-mt alone. If it fails, then use terminal with command "sudo dpkg --configure -a" (you never use braces around whole commands in console, right?) and finish upgrading it that way.
3. Install rest of the upgrades.
4. Enable wlan.
5. Open MP3 file with Amarok. This will help with installing some useful codecs. Some are used by Kaffeine (DVD, avi), but installation done with Amarok just helps with this.
6. Install Firefox.
7. Install some general fonts.

Vóila. Then I just need to call my ex that she can come and get her laptop (after several weeks of waiting, shame on me).

==== Current problems ====
 Fixed: ''1. Cannot connect internet thru wlan, while Windoze does it without problems - without any manual setting.'' -- I made it with <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff#head-a2669e6253e78a64b66ed1c27e42c1bb8ae43416|this "how-to"]]</nowiki>.

 Fixed: ''2. When shutting down, requires root-password. This problem appeared after I tried to create second user-account (which failed: couldn't login - forced to shut down with pressing power-button 5 secs).'' -- I was able to fix this problem, I just don't remember how. Merely removing the second (not working) user-account might have done it.

=== HP Pavilion dv6000 ===

==== My experiences so far with this laptop and Kubuntu: ====
 Lesson 1. If you need to use special commands while booting with LiveCD, and you need to add the same commands into boot with installed Kubuntu, just slip them into GRUB. With NeoGRUB, it goes as easily as just sticking <code>noapic nolapic</code> right at the end of line that starts with word ''kernel''.

==== Useful Notes ====

1. I was able to make <nowiki>[[http://oozie.fm.interia.pl/pro/huawei-e220/|Huawei E220]]</nowiki> to work with this combination. (Suomalaisille erinomainen ohje: <nowiki>[[http://linux.fi/index.php/Huawei_E220/E270]]</nowiki>)

2. Just as a pre-warning: I don't have access to this laptop anymore, thus I cannot provide further info that requires testing with the laptop itself.

==== Current problems ====
1. To boot the liveCD, have to do some tricks (noapic nolapic).

=== HP Pavilion dv2000 ===

==== My experiences so far with this laptop and Ubuntu: ====

Installed easily, works cool.

This model has serious problems with Audiopulse, as audiopulse tends to freeze often, causing the whole DE to freeze eventually. After manually setting the sound-options (System -> Preferences -> Sound) to use ALSA, this laptop hardly has had any problems with crashes.

I was successful with making laserprinter Canon LBP2900 to work with this laptop, and I can tell you - it was easy. I downloaded driver from here: <nowiki>[[http://software.canon-europe.com/products/0010177.asp|http://software.canon-europe.com/products/0010177.asp -> 2. Canon CAPT Printer Driver for Linux (1.80)]]</nowiki>, and since I had Ghostscript installed already I could skip that part. Then just selecting the printer thru System->Admin->Printers. Also for a note, that printer was shared on Windows XP.

Card-reader doesn't seem to work out-of-box, but it's very easy to fix with <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/AcerAspire5601AWLMi/HowTo#5%20in%201%20card%20reader%20does%20not%20work%20under%20Edgy%20Eft(6.10)|this HowTo]]</nowiki>. It worked good with my Transcend microSD combined with Kingston's microSD Adapter.

This laptop works excellent with Canon Pixma MP540 inkjet/scanner/copier (USB). I strongly suggest downloading drivers for it from Canon's pages, as drivers for Pixma MP500 (drivers following in distro installation for Ubuntu 8.04) ''does not'' work with the device.

==== Useful Notes ====

An easy way to install lots of codecs and other "crap" that allows playing mp3, watching flash-videos and other sort of movies, and much more, is to install "''Ubuntu-restricted-extras''" meta. When writing this, only problem is that flash-plugin for Mozilla Firefox doesn't work when done this way. Luckily it's easily rounded by just downloading the plugin from official site, and installing it by double-clicking the .deb-package.

=== Asus TravelMate 240 ===

==== My experiences so far with this laptop and Ubuntu: ====

Installed easily, and works fine with very short testing period. (For a note: Owner has complained about problems with this combination, but as she's teenager with some serious attitude-problems, I can't check out what's wrong.)

=== HP OmniBook 4150 ===

==== My experiences so far with this laptop and Ubuntu: ====

Normal installation attempts from Ubuntu LiveCD failed, most likely due to too little amount of RAM, which is 128MB if I remember correctly. So I installed Ubuntu 8.04 Server, and continued installing Desktop Environment once the lappy was booted from HD. For a note: This very text is written with that laptop and Firefox 3. And when taking into account that this laptop got 366MHz Intel II, I find Ubuntu working very nicely on this. Lack of RAM altho keeps screaming now and then, when I need to use programs that require lots of it (Synaptic is utterly slow at start and when doing a search - for example).

Other than that, I'm very excited about this working so well.

=== Acer eMachines E620 ===

==== My experiences so far with this laptop and Ubuntu: ====

''To be added soon.''

----
CategoryHomepage CategoryComments CategoryLaptop CategoryBrainDump
