{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Italian Page: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/Fabio_Locati|F4l3]]</nowiki>

== About me ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <:>'''Nick'''
| '''F4l3'''
|-
| <:>'''Age'''
| '''17'''
|-
| <:>'''Birthday'''
| '''11-04-1990'''
|-
| <:>'''City'''
| '''Milan'''
|-
| <:>'''Launchpad'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~f4l3|F4l3]]</nowiki>
|-
| <:>'''GPG'''
| <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x46CFF985&op=index|46CFF985]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?search=0x8E7ECDB0&op=index|8E7ECDB0]]</nowiki>
|}
<<BR>> <<BR>>

== Contact ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <:>'''IRC'''
| '''F4l3''' - Server: '''irc.freenode.net''' - Canali: '''ubuntu-it''' e '''ubuntu-it-chat'''
|-
| <:>'''E-mail'''
| '''ubuntu AT f4l3 DOT net'''
|-
| <:>'''Jabber'''
| '''f4l3 AT jabber DOT linux DOT it'''
|-
| <:>'''GTalk'''
| '''f4l3 AT jabber DOT linux DOT it'''
|}
<<BR>> <<BR>>

== My history with Linux ==
In January 2005 I downloaded the Mandriva 2005.0. I have used it (with two formats for day) for six months. Il Jule of the same year, I started to use Debian. I passed to ubuntu (kubuntu) in Genuary 2007. I have never work for linux. But now I am starting to do this.

== Present e Future - Under Contruction ==
Ora sono in terza liceo scientifico tecnologico. 
L'anno prossimo parteciperò a uno Student Exchange. Grazie a questa esperienza avrò la possibilità di andare negli US. La città, precisamente, è Sebastopol. Questa cittadina, nonostante accolga poco più di 7.000 abitanti, è abbastanza famosa poichè è la sede principale dell'O'Reilly.
Dopo la quinta penso di andare a fare Ingegneria Informatica a Milano.
In seguito mi piacerebbe (ma questo è solo un sogno nel cassetto) andare a fare il PhD a Standford...
Per il lavoro... spero di lavorare in ambito Open... ma sono solo speranze...
----
CategoryHomepage
