{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


'''ENGLISH VERSION FOLLOWS''' - scroll down!

=== Contact ===
* <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca/contact|MagicFab.ca]]</nowiki> - site personnel
* <nowiki>[[https://legoutdulibre.com|Le Goût du Libre]]</nowiki> - services professionnels
* Par courriel sécurisé / chiffré via OpenPGP: Voyez <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca/contact#encrypted-email]]</nowiki> 
* Sur IRC (Libera Chat): mon nick est MagicFab

=== À propos ===

Je suis conseiller indépendant en ''technologies et logiciels libres'', m'intéressant plus particulièrement au soutien technique en entreprise et aux particuliers. '''Mes services sont gratuits pour les enseignants au Québec'''.

Je suis disponible pour des mandats partout au Québec, au Canada ou à l'étranger (récemment: Pologne, Allemagne, Haïti, Colombie). Visitez <nowiki>[[http://legoutdulibre.com|Le Goût du Libre]]</nowiki> ou <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca|mon site personnel]]</nowiki> pour en savoir plus.

La liste de conférences, ateliers et formations que je suis en mesure d'adapter à vos besoins est disponible ci-bas.

"Ubuntu Member" depuis 2005, je détiens aussi les certifications "Ubuntu Certified Professional" et "Ubuntu Certified instructor". De 2006 à 2010 j'ai travaillé chez Canonical, où j'ai occupé le poste de "Senior Ubuntu Systems Support Analyst". Je suis un adepte de GNU/Linux et des logiciels libres depuis la première version d'Ubuntu en 2004. Mes distributions de choix sont Debian et <nowiki>[[http://trisquel.info|Trisquel]]</nowiki>, une dérivée d'Ubuntu, mais je touche un peu à tout. 

J'utilise ou je propose quotidiennement des solutions technologiques guidées par les principes fondateurs des logiciels libres. J'ai adapté <nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.fr.html|ces principes]]</nowiki> pour les appliquer plus largement, comme suit:

* La liberté d'utiliser la technologie, pour tous les usages (liberté 0).
* La liberté d'étudier le fonctionnement d'un technologie, et de l'adapter à vos besoins (liberté 1). Pour ceci l'accès au code source, schémas, plans ou instructions de fabrication et création sont une condition requise.
* La liberté de redistribuer des copies, donc d'aider votre voisin, (liberté 2).
* La liberté d'améliorer une technologie et de publier vos améliorations, pour en faire profiter toute la communauté (liberté 3). Pour ceci l'accès au code source, schémas, plans ou instructions de fabrication et création sont une condition requise.

=== About me ===

I am an IT enterprise support consultant, based off Montreal, QC, Canada. '''My services are free for teachers in Quebec province.'''

I am available for contracts in Quebec, across Canada or abroad (recently: Poland, Germany, Haiti, Colombia). Visit <nowiki>[[http://legoutdulibre.com|Le Goût du Libre]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca|my personal site]]</nowiki> for more information.

I am an Ubuntu Member since 2005, and also Ubuntu Certified Professional + Ubuntu Certified instructor. From 2006 to 2010 I worked at Canonical, as a "Senior Ubuntu Systems Support Analyst". I am an avid GNU/Linux and free software user since Ubuntu's first version came out in 2004. My choice distributions are Debian and <nowiki>[[http://trisquel.info|Trisquel]]</nowiki>, an Ubuntu derivative - but I play with many more. 

=== Contact ===

* <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca/carnet|MagicFab.ca]]</nowiki>, personal website
* <nowiki>[[https://legoutdulibre.com|Le Goût du Libre]]</nowiki>, professional services

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/magicfab|Launchpad profile & OpenPGP key]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca/keysigning-policy-and-procedure/|Keysigning policy]]</nowiki>
* On IRC: !MagicFab

'''Teams I have been active in at some point''' HaitianTeam (kickstarted April 2010), MarketingTeam (Oct. 2005-2013), CanadianTeam (Oct. 2005), ColombianTeam (founded Nov. 2005), QuebecTeam (march 2006-2012), UbuntuFrenchTranslators, <nowiki>[[UbuntuInWayuunaiki|Wayuunaiki Translation Team]]</nowiki> (founded Dec. 2006)

=== Presentations ===
See http://libreplanet.org/wiki/User:MagicFab#Presentations

=== Hardware ===
See http://libreplanet.org/wiki/User:MagicFab#Hardware

=== Contributions ===
These are some of my past contributions to Ubuntu, there's also a  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FabiánRodríguezDetail|more detailed list]]</nowiki>.

* I can offer Ubuntu professional training and consulting in Quebec province - free for teachers !
* I created <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour|the Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> concept
* I started several Ubuntu teams, including ColombianTeam and QuebecTeam (team contact for +5 years)
* I do some <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/magicfab/+reportedbugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-priority%2C-severity&field.status%3Alist=Unconfirmed&field.status%3Alist=Needs+Info&field.status%3Alist=Rejected&field.status%3Alist=Confirmed&field.status%3Alist=In+Progress&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Committed&field.status%3Alist=Fix+Released&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch.used=&search=Search+bugs+reported+by+Fabi%C3%A1n+Rodr%C3%ADguez|bug reporting]]</nowiki> and documentation
* I installed Ubuntu to my 60 yr.-old parents in Colombia (happy users since 5.04, switched to Trisquel in 2012, switched to Debian in 2019)
* I regularly relay Ubuntu news and use cases to my business contacts and to the most active and visible organizations involved in free software and free computing in Quebec province.
* Over the years I have created lots of marketing material, including a CD-insert <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-ca/2005-November/000323.html|in spanish]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca/files/ubuntu-fr.odt|french]]</nowiki> to help promote Ubuntu through CDs.

=== Plans & vision for Ubuntu ===
When I discovered Ubuntu I understood its role as an essential tool to make GNU/Linux more accessible to everyone, starting with my parents and close friends. Its community was the first open enough to let anyone participate to the extent of their abilities and availability. I have now moved to using more and more an Ubuntu derivative, <nowiki>[[http://trisquel.info|Trisquel]]</nowiki> while also exploring Ubuntu's upstream <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki>. 

I am critical of decisions taken by Canonical, particularly the inclusion of non-free software and features that can be compared to malware, introducing privacy issues:
* <nowiki>[[https://www.fsf.org/blogs/rms/ubuntu-spyware-what-to-do|Ubuntu spyware, what to do?]]</nowiki>

As part of my professional but also personal activities, I plan on focusing on the following:
==== In all teams ====
* Keeping the Ubuntu community open and friendly, following the code of conduct
* Contributing and teaching others how to contribute in tasks that will make upstream's work easier
* Actively encouraging people to document their participation and contribute to upstream projects
* Encouraging participation in local events in other free software communities

==== In Quebec, as part of the Ubuntu-QC team ====
* Actively marketing and selling free software/IT services locally:
* * Training
* * Servers install and support
* * Desktop migration and support
* Becoming a liaison for local support & advocacy 
* Participating or organizing events with Ubuntu derivatives mentions / presence

==== In Colombia, as part of the Ubuntu-CO team (past) ====
* Mentored ElkinBotero and other the team leaders and members to officialize the team
* Actively monitored and helped with the IRC channel, mailing list and initial web resources (forums, etc.)

=== Local organizations ===
See :
* <nowiki>[[https://magicfab.ca/associations/|Associations]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
