{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== FabioTranchitella ==

== Contact ==

'''Name''': Fabio Tranchitella

'''Born''': Italy, 08 March 1984

'''Location''': Turin, Italy / Pécs, Hungary

'''Email''': kobold@debian.org

'''IRC''': kobold on #debian-devel/irc.freenode.net

== About me ==

I am Debian maintainer of Zope packages and a bunch of Zope products, including "<nowiki>[[http://plone.org|Plone]]</nowiki>" and "<nowiki>[[http://www.cps-project.org|Nuxep CPS]]</nowiki>", and other small packages like "<nowiki>[[http://phpldapadmin.sf.net|phpldapadmin]]</nowiki>", gtkdialog and dovecot.

I live half-time in Italy and the other half time in the south of Hungary, working as Free Software consultant for the company I fouded with my wife. I am also studing IT Engineering. at "<nowiki>[[http://www.polito.it|Politechnic of Turin]]</nowiki>", which I hope to complete at the end of the accademic year 2005/2006.

I am interested in integration of heterogeneous systems with Free Software technologies,  web programming, especially python- and zope-based.

== Ubuntu Involvement ==

I'm actually working on Ubuntu zope packages for the Google Summer of Code project, and my mentor is doko (Matthias Klose). While going on with this task I'm trying to focus my work on a good integration between Debian and Ubuntu, which will give benefits to both distribution sharing the human power and the technical implementations.
