{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== Nick names: ====
** Saltydog, Thesaltydog

==== e-mail: ====
** thesaltydog AT gmail.com

==== Location: ====
** Rome, Italy

==== Coding activity (gnome developer): ====
** '''Disk Usage Analyzer''' aka ''Baobab'' <nowiki>[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_Usage_Analyzer|here]]</nowiki>;
** '''Boot-Up Manager''' (BUM) <nowiki>[[http://www.marzocca.net/linux/bum.html|here]]</nowiki> (in Debian unstable/testing and Ubuntu universe);
** '''Gtk''''''Orphan''' <nowiki>[[http://www.marzocca.net/linux/gtkorphan.html|here]]</nowiki> (in Debian unstable/testing and Ubuntu universe);

==== Ubuntu related activity: ====
** Ubuntu Member (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/thesaltydog]]</nowiki>)
** Co-founder of the italian Ubuntu Community
** Member of the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-it.org/index.php?page=Struttura_Com|Italian LoCoTeam Council]]</nowiki> and Team Owner of the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-it-www|Ubuntu Italian Website Team]]</nowiki> from 2005 to 2011
** Support in the ubuntu-it Mailing List and italian community.
** Bugs reporting and triaging in Launchpad  (Launchpad <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~thesaltydog/|activity]]</nowiki> )

=== Vision ===

I aim to start importing Ubuntu into work-related worlds (offices, organizations, home work). I have realized that major  obstacle to this process is the lack of correct information in those environments. They seems not to have an option: but Ubuntu is the right (and the better) option.

=== Myself ===
You can read more about me on:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.fabiomarzocca.com/blog/|My Blog]]</nowiki>;
** <nowiki>[[http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/49268/index.html|interview on LXer]]</nowiki>;
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-it.org/index.php?page=fabio-marzocca|interview on ubuntu-it]]</nowiki> (in italian).
** Interview on <nowiki>[[http://fabiomarzocca.wordpress.com/2008/05/08/ubuntu-e-la-comunita-italiana-in-tv/|italian state television channel]]</nowiki>.
** Interview on <nowiki>[[http://robertogaloppini.net/2008/06/06/open-source-developers-fabio-marzocca/ | Open Source Blog]]</nowiki>.
** Interview on <nowiki>[[http://fabiomarzocca.wordpress.com/2008/12/25/ubuntu-e-open-source-in-diretta-su-romauno-sky/ | Italian digital TV channel]]</nowiki>.
----
CategoryHomepage
