{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== My suggested Ubuntu install - DRAFT ==
I often install Ubuntu for friends, family and colleagues and I end up customizing their machines to be able to provide remote support. This page is a personal collection of notes and references about my preferred method of installing Ubuntu from scratch and the customizations I use.

=== Getting the ISO ===
I primarily use Alternate editions of the Ubuntu CDs. Alternate editions let me do "command line only system" which I can then customize so it becomes Ubuntu, Kubuntu or Xubuntu depending on the system's resources.

If I know the target system has a DVD drive abd/or am dealing with low speeed Internet connectivity, I get a DVD ISO which also lets me install a "text only" system.

=== Installing tips & tricks ===
* I '''always''' use the default english language and keyboard. I can always customize language preferences later. This also means I become familiar with the same vocabulary everytime I install.
* I use a very short password for convenience which I make a mental note to change as soon as the system has been installed. The admin password will be used frequently during the initial install and post-install so keep it simple.
* I only install the "text system" only, and later add the appropriate meta-package (see suggested packages below)

=== Post-install ===
==== Remove the CD or DVD repositories ====
I usually remove the CD or DVD repositories after installing. This way I don' t need to keep the media around which may happen during the first few packages installation.
# <code> sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list </code>
# Remove CD-ROM repository (can't find the exact reference for this)

==== Local cache of repositories ====
If this is going to be a permanent desktop or server install on a network where other Ubuntu systems will co-exist, I also intially install and configure apt-cacher. Apt-cacher acts as a local proxy for update packages. When other machines are properly configured, they request an update from the local apt-cacher server. If it's the first time the update is requested, it is downloaded from the Internet, otherwise it is served locally from the apt-cacher server, this saving bandwidth.

Other than saving bandwidth and making future installs/updates much faster, a local apt-cacher also means only one machine is getting updates from the outside and actually need to have diretc Internet acces, which is also a nice security advantage.

Here are two great guides to setting up apt-cacher:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.debuntu.org/how-to-set-up-a-repository-cache-with-apt-cacher|How To Set up a repository cache with apt-cacher]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/01/08/save-bandwidth-during-updates-with-apt-cacher-ubuntu-610/|Save Bandwidth With Multiple Machines with Apt-Cacher]]</nowiki>

==== Update & upgrade ====
After those steps I proceed to perform the first update & upgrade of the system in one step, because it can take sometime I run this unattended:
<code> sudo apt-get update -y && sudo apt-get upgrade -y </code>

==== Suggested packages ====
Depending on what version of Ubuntu will be installed, I then proceed to install the following
* '''ubuntu-desktop''' for the standard Ubuntu with Gnome desktop
* '''kubuntu-desktop''' for Kubuntu with the KDE desktop
* '''kubuntu-kde4-desktop''' for the KDE 4 desktop, if you are running a Hardy-based install
* '''xubuntu-desktop''' for Xubuntu with the XFCE desktop
* '''startupmanager''' will let you update many boot-time preferences

I need to try <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Openbox|Openbox]]</nowiki> too, as it seems to be getting lots of attention lately (as of March 2008) and seems to be among the least hungry windows managers around.

=== DNS ===
I always setup static DNS entries to those of opendns.com. They have a great guide for <nowiki>[[https://www.opendns.com/start/ubuntu.php|quick setup of Ubuntu and OpenDNS]]</nowiki>.

=== Boot customization ===
(to be detailed a bit more)

In /boot/grub/menu.lst:
* Remove the "quiet" keyword from kernel options. This will give a bit more detail about the boot process while keeping the splash screen.
* Make the timeout before booting into Ubuntu a bit longer. I use <code>timeout 8</code>
* Uncomment the ''Pretty colours'': <code>color cyan/blue white/blue</code>

This can also be accomplished graphically by using the '''startupmanager''' package.

=== Gnome desktop applets ===
* '''Disk Mounter''' is a must

==== Webcam-related packages ====
* cheese
* wengophone

=== Secure remote access ===
* Reverse SSH tunneling and VNC (to be documented)
* '''openssh-server''': never use password authentication-only (to be documented)
