{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Setting up SSH remote access with public key authentication ==
# Install openssh-server
# Edit /etc/ssh/sshd_config, uncomment the line <code>set Password authentication</code> to <code>no</code>.
# Import any SSH public keys you want to authorize and put them in .ssh/authorized_keys, one by line
# Restart the SSH service:<br><code>sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart</code>

The SSH service can also be controlled via '''System > Admonostration > Services'''

=== Closing ports from outside access, opening only SSH ===
# Install ufw (package: '''ufw''')
# sudo enable ufw
# sudo ufw allow ssh

=== Setting up secure Remote Desktop access (VNC) ===
# Enable Remote Desktop access in '''System > Preferences > Remote Desktop'''
# In the "Advanced" tab, mark "Require encryption"
# sudo ufw allow from 192.168.0.0/16 port 5900
 
== Accessing a server with SSH PKA set ==
From an Ubuntu client:
# Install openssh-client
# Export your SSH public key to a file
# ...

== Setting up a tunnel ==
=== Using gstm ===
# Create a new tunnel
# File all basic information, click Add to add a port redirection
# Use the following information:
** Type: local (as this will be a tunnel originating in a local connection)
** Port: 5959 (or any local port different from other ports in use at the client)
** To host: localhost (or the IP address of your remote host as set within its LAN)
** To port: 5900 (or your remote host's VNC port)

=== Using putty ===
Putty for Ubuntu can be installed using Synaptic. It includes the CLI-only puttygen utility.

Putty for Windows and puttygen.exe can be obtained <nowiki>[[http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html|from the projects' website]]</nowiki>.

==== Windows: Generate your keypair, copy the public key ====
# Launch putty
# Optionally increase number of bits or type of key
# Click on '''Key > Generate Keypair". Key generation will begin, remember to move the mouse

Once generated, the keypair must be saved to a known location for future use. That is accomplished by clicking "Save private key".

Within the resulting window, click to select and copy the "Public key for pasting into OpenSSH authorized_keys file". This will be needed on the server side. 

==== Setting up the tunnel ====

# Launch putty
# In "Session", input the remote system's host name or IP address, change the port is remote host is setup to other than 22.
# Enter a name under "Saved sessions", click "Save"
# On the list of options to the left, choose "SSH"
# Mark bot "Don't start a shell or command at all" and "Enable compression"
# On the list of options to the left, click on the "+" sign just in front of the "SSH" word to expand options under it
# Click on "Tunnels" from the list of expanded options
# Mark "Local ports accept connections from other hosts"
# Under "Add forwarded ports" set:
** Source port: 5959 (or any local port different from other ports in use at the client)
** Destination: localhost:5900 (or the IP address of your remote host as set within its LAN, followed by your remote host's VNC port)
** Make sure "Local" is checked
** Click "Add"
1. On the list of options to the left, click on the "Sessions" word, click "Save" to keep the tunnels setup in your session
