{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== About me: ====

** Location: Turin, Italy
** E-mail: fabrizio AT fabrizioballiano.it
** Launchpad profile: https://launchpad.net/~fabrizio-balliano
** Technical blog: http://fabrizioballiano.net

In 2003 I started a company here in Italy (CreaLabs) which became the first Italian Ubuntu affiliate and later the first Italian Ubuntu Software Partner, with the projects described below and some Ubuntu related speeches during Italian free software events.
I strongly believe in the importance of having localized ISO because a lot of users downloading the official ISOs get only partially translated softwares and thinks Ubuntu is not that great, this is also why the Ubuntu Italian Remix is having a good success here in Italy.

==== Ubuntu related projects I’m involved in: ====

** <nowiki>[[http://uck.sourceforge.net|UCK - Ubuntu Customization Kit]]</nowiki> (coordinator/developer/tester/packager): tool to customize official Ubuntu Live CDs. (counting more than 170,000 download only from SF)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-mini-remix.org|Ubuntu Mini Remix]]</nowiki> (administrator/developer): a fully working Ubuntu livecd containing only the minimal set of software to make the system work, really useful when you want to create an Ubuntu derivative. (average 200 downloads every day, not counting release peak)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-remix-italiano.it|Ubuntu Remix Italiano]]</nowiki> (administrator/developer): the official Ubuntu/Kubuntu desktop ISO plus Italian localization packages. (average 50 downloads every day, not counting release peak)

==== Other FLOSS orojects I’m involved in: ====

** <nowiki>[[http://www.e-socrates.org|e-Socrates]]</nowiki> (administrator/tutor): free Moodle hosting with ethic. (more than 1,000 courses)
** <nowiki>[[http://p4a.sourceforge.net|P4A - PHP For Applications]]</nowiki> (administrator/developer): PHP RAD and object oriented PHP5 framework for building event-driven stateful web applications. (more than 210,000 downloads)

==== Plans for the future ====

Continue spreading the Ubuntu word maintaining my FLOSS projects and working with my customers migrating to Ubuntu for both servers and workstations.
I'd like to merge the UCK and the "remixes" to build something like a "world" remix, where every user could download the official Ubuntu ISO directly in his language.

==== Testimonials ====

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

** It has been pleasant to work with Fabrizio. With the Ubuntu Customization Kit and related projects, he's responsible for a very interesting and useful set of software. I used UCK a few years ago to create a custom LiveCD and it's nice to see it still around and maintained. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:t-w-]]</nowiki> 
** I'm co-author of the Swiss-Remix DVD, an Ubuntu derivative with customizations for Switzerland. UCK is central to creating this Remix - in fact so central that I've become a member in the UCK development team. Fabrizio has made me welcome in the team and is a steady source of insight and inspiration. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:wolf-womaro]]</nowiki> 
** I work with Fabrizio for the UCK packaging and I can say that he's done a really great job to support users during the latest 5 years (at least). I also think that his Italian Remix gives Ubuntu Italian LoCo team a tremendous help to spread Ubuntu in Italy. Shortly: he really deserves to become Ubuntu member! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:quadrispro]]</nowiki> 
** I was working with him on Ubuntu Customization Kit and he was very responsive. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:kocio]]</nowiki> 
** I worked with Fabrizio on the Ubuntu Customization Kit, and I enjoyed it a lot. After the two original developers had no time to maintain UCK, he stepped up, and did a great job (and he still does). Many LoCo teams utilize UCK to create a local remix of Ubuntu, so Fabrizio has definitely put a dent into the Ubuntu universe with his work, and as such deserves to be an Ubuntu Member. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:phanatic]]</nowiki> 
----
CategoryHomepage
