{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Ubotu is a nice bot, but he has some limitations which need to be overcome in order to keep everyone happy and the bot useful.

Keywords: Ease of use, Verification, Searching/web display, Locking, Special factoids

=== Ease of use ===
Ubotu is very easy to use, that should stay this way:
{{{!foo is bar
!foo
!no foo is baz
!foo =~ s/baz/bar/
!forget foo
!lock foo
}}}

=== Verification ===
The biggest problem with the current factoids is that anyone can edit/add them. There is lots of spam and bad stuff added to the bot. Adding/editing factoids should be limited to IRC operators, trusted regulars and docteam members. All current factoids (around 1000) need to be checked.

A new factoid has to be confirmed by at least one other person to be used in the bot or on the web pages. Factoids should focus on (in THIS order):

* Official documentation
* Wikipages
* Other

In case a factoid falls under 'other', someone should wiki it up and/or contact the docteam. We should prevent double work.

=== Searching/web display ===
The current web pages are semi-decent. They could use a facelift though.

=== Locking ===
Locking currently is a no-op and can be removed if verification is in place.

=== Special factoids ===
!ops
!es,!fr,etc

These special factoids need some extra love & care.
