{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Me ===

Fajran Iman Rusadi. Indonesian, male, student at the <nowiki>[[http://www.science.uva.nl/grid|UvA]]</nowiki>.

=== Contacts ===

* fajran at gmail.com
* http://launchpad.net/~fajran
* http://www.linkedin.com/in/fajran
* http://flickr.com/photos/fajran

=== Relevant activities ===

* Member of Ubuntu LoCo Team Indonesia
* Coordinator of <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/search?q=ubuntu+dvd+repository+indonesia|"Ubuntu Repository on DVD"]]</nowiki> distribution in Indonesia, since 2006. (<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-id.org/news/1st-ubuntu-release-party-di-indonesia|Link, in Indonesian]]</nowiki>)
* Packaging team coordinator at the <nowiki>[[http://www.blankonlinux.or.id|BlankOn Project]]</nowiki>, since 2008. (<nowiki>[[http://dev.blankonlinux.or.id/wiki/4/TimPengembang|Link, in Indonesian]]</nowiki>)
* Maintainer of one of the biggest Free/Open source software mirror in Indonesia, <nowiki>[[http://kambing.ui.edu|KAMBING.ui.edu]]</nowiki>, since 2007.

=== Some contributions ===

* Initiate the Ubuntu Repository on DVD project in Indonesia. The goal of this project is to help people which have none or very limited internet connection accessing the huge collection of Ubuntu packages. The whole packages in the repository are put into several DVDs so it can be distributed more easily. See also: http://asia.cnet.com/blogs/toekangit/post.htm?id=61953558

* Build and maintain a small service, which is temporarily called <nowiki>[[http://labs.fajran.web.id/p/apt-web/|apt-web]]</nowiki>, that helps people to figure out all dependencies of given Ubuntu packages and get the URLs of those packages. It is very helpful if you want to install some packages but you don't have an access to the Ubuntu repository directly from your PC. You can visit the page, get the URLs, and download the packages from internet cafe, school, or work place. You can then bring the downloaded packages to your PC and do the installation.
