{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Because a native install on a fakeraid system will not be supported until 8.10, and 8.04 is an LTS version, some kind of well documented method will be needed for a long time to come.

Initially I have only added links to pages documenting fakeraid installation on previous version of Ubuntu. The next steps Please at least document what

=== Current status of this documentation ===
Right now this page consists only of links to documentation on fakeraid installation on previous versions of Ubuntu. Because I have gotten half way through the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto|manual install procedure]]</nowiki> before stumbling across what appears to be a much more recent and simple set of instructions for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FakeRaidEdgy|installation on Edgy]]</nowiki>, I wanted to save others some grief.

=== Next steps for you ===
At minimum please add your experience in the section below. I (or anybody) will flesh out the details in this document going forward.

=== Resources ===

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FakeRaidEdgy|FakeRaid installation on Edgy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto|manual install procedure HowTo]]</nowiki>

=== User experience ===

* add yours here please
