{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== FanJun Kong ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| FanJun Kong
|-
| '''Location'''
| Beijing
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~fjkong
|}

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| fanjun.kong #canonical.com
|-
| IRC
| FJKong on irc.freenode.net
|}

=== About Me ===

My name is FanJun Kong, live in Beijing China, my first try of linux is 2004 and an Ubuntu user at 2005. Now I am a member of the Ubuntu Desktop Team, employed by Canonical. Before I join Canonical, I worked at SUSE for 3 years on Gnome related stuff.

I am also an <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amateur_radio|amateur radio]]</nowiki> (also called Ham radio), my callsign <nowiki>[[http://www.qrz.com/db/BH1SCW|BH1SCW]]</nowiki>. I love Morse Code so I enjoy the CW very much and never get tired. Hope have a nice QSO with you with CW or SSB on HF, VY 73!

{{http://www.hrdlog.net/callplate.aspx?user=BH1SCW}}

=== My Ubuntu story ===
I started to use Ubuntu with a DVD which was sent from other country, I was so exciting then I installed it at once, from that time I am in this big world. Every time there was a new version I will download and have a try. 
Now my laptop and VPS are all ubuntu, yeah~

=== My involvement ===
I am involved in Gnome project like evince, gnome-control-center, gdm, input method etc.
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
In the past few months, I am a developer of Sogou Input method for ubuntu-kylin, this is big change of inputting Chinese. It makes inputting faster and more fluent. Now more than 15,000 people install and start to use this. Besides this I also take part in other projects:youker-assistant software center. we are making ubuntu-kylin better and better for Chinese users.
=== Areas of work ===
* fixing bugs for Desktop components
* developing software for ubuntu/ubuntu-kylin.
* input method
=== Things I could do better ===
* Better input experience for Chinese users.
* Customize utuntu-kylin and make it easier to use for Chinese.
* Spread ubuntu to more learnners, guiding them how to enter this linux world.
=== Plans for the future ===
well, my plan for the future is :
 
* Help developing on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu%20Kylin|Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> projects, we want it be a better flavor for Chinese users
* keeps fixing bugs on Gnome related packages.
* I think I can help maintain <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hams|Ubuntu Amateur Radio]]</nowiki> team, because it is better to let more people know this and help them join in us.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

=== Comments ===
If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fjkong]]</nowiki> .

==== Testimonials ====

DidierRoche: Fanjun is working for a long time to make ubuntu better in China. His work on Ubuntu Kylin around the input system is really valuable to the distribution as the desktop team doesn't have any knowledge (most of people being based in Europe or US). Due to those contribution and being a very nice young contributor, I endorse his application as an Ubuntu member. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:didrocks]]</nowiki> 
<DateTime(2014-09-26T15:53:00Z)>>.

SebastienBacher: FanJun is doing good work improving the Ubuntu and UbuntuKylin
user experience for chinese users. He's engaged with the community as well, and
it makes sense to have him accepted as an Ubuntu member.

IainLane: FJK's done good work improving the desktop for Chinese users, which is needed given how many people there are there. I think it would be good to have him as a member. :)
