{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Faulkes ==

I have been working directly with linux since 1993.  This includes Redhat, Fedora, CentOS and most recently Ubuntu.  The primary base of my work within linux has been systems engineering, system administration and n-tier system solutions.

My current work is with <nowiki>[[http://www.yallery.com|Yallery.com]]</nowiki> a social networking site for artists, galleries and collectors.  Within this I have provided the primary systems, network and software design.  All of the underlying systems are built upon open source software, including linux.  In addition to my work with Yallery, I provide systems and network consulting to a variety of clients on an as needed basis.

== Ubuntu Involvement ==

In regards to Ubuntu, I run 7.10 gutsy on my laptop (Dell 600m) and 7.04 powerpc-server (G4) as well as virtualized instances of 8.04 server and jeos.  It is the quality which I saw within the Desktop Edition that made me make the decision to become involved with the Ubuntu Project and my professional work with linux to become part of the Server Team.

I am a member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerTeam|Ubuntu Server Team]]</nowiki> and have been assigned as the Forum Ambassador by the team for the official <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=7|Server Platforms]]</nowiki> forum.  I have also been granted moderator privileges by the Forum Council to moderate discussions within the forum itself.  This role also includes reporting on a regular basis to the Server Team issues which have arisen in the forums or recurring questions/themes/challenges which we can help to better address.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Nbarcet|Nick Barcet]]</nowiki> and I are working on the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/server-survey|Ubuntu Server Edition Survey]]</nowiki> to produce usable data for the Server Team.  The object of the survey is to better understand the community which we serve, such that resources can be effectively applied to make the Server Edition the best possible choice.

An additional project I have started is a process to map the most frequently asked questions on the Server Platforms forum, categorized broadly and then sub-categorized to more specific types of questions.  It's currently written in perl, php and utilizes the <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/google-chart-api|Google Chart API]]</nowiki> to generate the graphs.  I will be presenting this to the Server Team at our next meeting.  The running version of this (0.1) is currently available at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.oss-mgmt.com]]</nowiki>.  When I have completed 0.2 the code will be uploaded to Launchpad.

I actively provide support within the Server Platforms forum, on the #ubuntu-server irc channel on irc.freenode.net and where possible the ubuntu-server mailing list.

== Launchpad ==

My LP account is available at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~michael-behrens|Faulkes]]</nowiki>
