{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes my experience installing Ubuntu 21.04 on a Surface Book 2. I have been away from Ubuntu since 2015 and much has changed, including my own requirements.

=== General Notes ===
A few years ago, I was fortunate enough to be able to purchase a couple of Microsoft Surface computers, including a Surface Book 2. When I was researching Ubuntu, I found that there are a number of functions that aren't supported in Ubuntu for Surface devices. Since I do have multiple computers, running Windows 10, I made the decision that I could live with the unsupported features.

I am aware that there is work being done that includes a custom Linux core that supports some of the missing features. For now, I have decided not to use these custom cores. I can live without the features on this computer. I fully realise that other people would not be able to make this same decision.

=== Hardware ===
I have installed Ubuntu 21.04 on a Microsoft Surface Book 2 with the following characteristics:
 '''Hardware Characteristics'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Display Size
| 15 inch
|-
| Display Resolution (Aspect Ratio)
| 3240 x 2160 (3:2)
|-
| Display Scale
| 200%
|-
| Memory
| 16 GB (15.5 GiB)
|-
| Disk Space
| 1 TB
|-
| Note on Disk
| The disk is encrypted and using ZFS.
|-
| Processor
| Intel® Core™ i7-8650U CPU @ 1.90GHz × 8
|-
| Graphics
| Mesa Intel® UHD Graphics 620 (KBL GT2)
|-
| Installation Note
| With the exception of the encryption, all other settings were applied with Ubuntu defaults. The encryption and ZFS were selections that I made as part of the installation.
|}

=== Installation Experience ===
During the installation, I was given a number of options:
* I chose to install Third-Party drivers.
* I chose to encrypt the disk and use ZFS file system.

The installation was trouble-free, including the Wi-Fi connection and software updates.

=== Post-Installation ===
==== Online Accounts ====
* I was easily able to add my Google, Microsoft, and Ubuntu accounts.
* I was very pleased to find that my Google Drive shows up as a Network Drive in Nautilus.
* I haven't found a solution for getting similar functionality for my Microsoft OneDrive account. There may be some options such as rclone, so I will look at those later.

==== Google Chrome ====
I have chosen to not install Google Chrome.

==== Microsoft Edge ====
For the moment, I have chosen to not install Microsoft Edge. I will revisit that decision later - I quite like Edge on Windows, and it has all of my bookmarks.

==== Other Hardware ====
* BTLE Precision Mouse. This mouse is a Microsoft product and I have been using it for a long time. It connected easily through Bluetooth.
* Surface Headphones. This is a Microsoft product and I have been using them for a long time. They connected easily through Bluetooth.I have not tested the microphone part. When I was using them in VLC, the tap to pause did not work, but taking the headphones off did pause the playback.

==== Minor Issues ====
* In Windows, I set the option so that the touchpad would not work if there was a mouse connected. This solved the fat finger issue. In Ubuntu, I had to use a terminal command to set this, and it seems to have permanently turned off the touchpad.
** The command that I used was: gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad send-events disabled-on-external-mouse.
* All of my music is in WMA (lossless) format.
** As a stopgap:
** I copied the WMA files to a portable drive.
** Loaded the files into the Music folder on my Ubuntu machine.
** Used SoundJuicer to convert the WMA files to FLAC.
** I haven't tested all of the music, but the ones that I have tested appear to be working very well.
** I am assuming that there is some loss in fidelity, so I will purchase a codec pack from <nowiki>[[https://fluendo.com/en/oneplay/|Fluendo|target="_blank"]]</nowiki>. I have used their codecs in the past and they do include WMA (lossless). Once that is installed, then I'll use the original WMA files instead of the converted FLAC files.
* I have not been able to get the battery status to display.

==== Not Working ====
I knew going in that there are many items that will not work. Here is the list:
* Touch Screen is not working at all.
* Pen is not working at all.
* Integrated Webcams (front and back) are not working at all.
** If I need to, I can connect an external webcam.
** No point in installing Skype.
