{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am currently employed as an Business Systems Analyst for a Canadian financial services company. I have been working with computers and business processes for nearly 40 years. Discovered ubuntu in 2007 and ran it full-time from 2008 to 2015.

In 2015, I moved to Windows 10 as a member of the preview program. There were some Windows specific applications that I could not live without.

It's now 2021 and much has changed. The primary applications that I use are now web-based and I have multiple computers. I have always liked most of how Ubuntu works - I even liked the Unity interface - and have converted one of my computers to run Ubuntu 21.04.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~flavelle.ballem
|-
| Website
| https://www.pirridm.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

* Started the nimbus-ubuntu project. Fortunately, someone who is much more technically inclined took it over and has been doing a terrific job with it.
* Converted a couple of my clients to ubuntu (they are currently running 12.04).
* Help in the forums when users have basic questions about ubuntu, particularly if they are changing over from Windows.
** This includes specific information about how to install or use software, general usability questions, and specific 'howto' questions on using ubuntu.
** These contributions have spanned three years.
* Help in selecting and installing software. This is given either in-person or through the forums. In addition, I have assembled information on how to install specific software.

=== Ubuntu Installation ===
When I was last on Ubuntu (May 2015), I used a specific set of application programs in Ubuntu for which I created installation instructions. These instructions were primarily focused on the 64-bit version of Ubuntu.

For example, the following are instructions for Ubuntu 14.04, which was then the current Long-Term Service release. <nowiki>[[Software 14.04|Ubuntu 14.04 Installation Instructions]]</nowiki>. I did not use the interim releases, preferring the stability that goes with a long term release.

==== Returning to Ubuntu ====
I am returning to using Ubuntu after seven years. I am also using very different hardware (a Microsoft Surface Book 2), so that includes some limitations that I am prepared to live with, for now.

In addition, there have been a large number of changes to Ubuntu, to various applications, and to the way that I am choosing to work.

I have documented these in <nowiki>[[Returning to Ubuntu|Returning to Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

=== Future Goals ===

* Continue participating in the forums.
* Document my experiences using Ubuntu after a long absence.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

=== Testimonial 1 ===

Flavelle has been a great person in the Ubuntu community. I have been reading UF and Launchpad before I signed up
he has been great wherever he is and helps everybody nobody what.

Good Luck!

Benny (https://lauchpad.net/~benny)
