{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== FCGI options ==
Apache will complain and refuse to start if you specify these options inside of <Directory...>...</Directory> tags. Server-wide settings should go inside `/etc/apache2/mods-available/fcgid.conf` file.

* Example_Setting <parameter> (default value)

pretty self explanatory, i think ;-)

* IdleTimeout n (300 seconds)

An idle fastcgi application will be terminated after IdleTimeout seconds.

* IdleScanInterval n (120 seconds)

The scan interval for idle fastcgi applications.

* BusyTimeout n (300 seconds)

a fastcgi application will be terminated if handing a single request longer than busy timeout.

* BusyScanInterval n (120 seconds)

The scan interval for busy timeout fastcgi applications.

* ErrorScanInterval n (3 seconds)

The scan interval for exit pending fastcgi applications. fastcgi applications will be terminated within this scanning.

* ZombieScanInterval n (3 seconds)

The scan interval for zombie process. 

* ProcessLifeTime n (3600 seconds)

A fastcgi application will be terminated if lifetime expired, even no error is detected.

* SocketPath path (logs/fcgidsock)

The directory to put the UNIX domain socket. (UNIX only)

* SpawnScoreUpLimit n (10)

The spawn-speed control score up water limit. Score increases while a process is spawned or terminated, and decreases as time progresses; while the score is higher than SpawnScoreUpLimit, the spawning will be held for a while. The higher this number is, the higher speed of the spawning can be.

* SpawnScore n (1)

The weight of spawning.  This weight will be plused to the spawn-control score on every spawn. The higher this number is, the lower speed of spawning can be.

* TerminationScore n (2)

The weight of termination. This weight will be plused to the score while fastcgi process terminates. The higher this number is, the lower speed of spawning can be.

* MaxProcessCount n (1000)

The max count of total fastcgi process count.

* DefaultMaxClassProcessCount n (100)

The maximum number of fastcgi application instances allowed to run for any one fastcgi application. 

* DefaultInitEnv  env_name env_value

The default environment variables before a fastcgi application is spawned. You can set this configuration more than once.

* IPCConnectTimeout n (2 seconds)

The connect timeout to a fastcgi application. 

* IPCCommTimeout n (5 seconds)

The communication timeout to a fastcgi application. Please increase this value if your CGI have a slow initialization or slow respond.

* OutputBufferSize n (64k bytes)

CGI output cache buffer size. 
