{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''Feisty Fawn''' was released on '''April 19, 2007'''. See the <nowiki>[[FeistyReleaseSchedule]]</nowiki> .  

* The name "Feisty Fawn" was announced <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2006-October/000212.html|in the mailing lists]]</nowiki> by MarkShuttleworth.
* Feisty goals are recorded in <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+specs|Launchpad]]</nowiki>.
* For latest development version see <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Beta]]</nowiki>.

=== Communications ===

The following outlines planned communications around the launch of Ubuntu 7.04. The aim of this page is to coordinate work done by community teams and Canonical globally. 

=== Materials ===

The following materials will be prepared for the launch.  They will be available in OpenDocument (.odt) and .pdf formats 

* Press release 
* Press pack - Information about Ubuntu 7.04, the Ubuntu project and case studies
* Features and benefits overview

=== Press release ===

* 11th April - Canonical draft press release draft complete and available for translation by loco teams
* 12th - 18th April Interviews with journalists (Call schedule being arranged. Come back here for details on calls.)
* 16th April - Press pack for community teams and accredited journalists and embargo lifted
* 19th - Ubuntu 7.04 is released

==== How can you help? ====

The growth of Ubuntu and Open source software in general is a great story that many journalists and readers are simply not aware of.  Beside beta testing, translating Ubuntu in Launchpad, and supporting other Ubuntu users, you can contribute to the Ubuntu project by contacting the press in your country and informing them of your experience with Ubuntu.  Engage them in covering launch of Ubuntu 7.04.

==== Steps ====

a) Identify two or three mainstream journalists in your country, state, or town who have written about technology before and contact them by phone and or e-mail about the launch.

b) Share with them the press pack and either do the briefing yourself or invite them to join one of the press briefings.  For them to get access to the calls organised by Canonical, a journalist should request to join the calls by email to pr@canonical.com with their details and who they write for. Calls will be in English.

=== Ubuntu 7.04 overview ===

Ubuntu 7.04 Features and benefits overview - http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/704tour

=== Launch parties ===

Launch parties are being organised by community teams all around - join one or add another!
see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyReleaseParties
----
CategoryMarketing
