{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/feisty-toolchain
* '''Packages affected''': gcc*, gcj*, glibc, binutils

=== Summary ===

Define features and versions to use in feisty, demoting/removing old compiler versions; use
the upstream versions which are available now.

=== Implementation ===

* glibc: 2.5, as available in feisty, using DT_GNU_HASH support.
* binutils-2.17.0.50.6, as available in feisty, using DT_GNU_HASH support.
* gcc: 4.1, as available in feisty; upgrade to the 4.1.2 release or the 4.1.2 branch until UVF.
** C++: backport the C++ visibility changes to 4.1; needs changes in packages to use this feature (i.e. KDE).
* gcj: Decide before UVF about gcj-4.2 or gcj-4.1, depending on the upstream 4.2 release date. If 4.2 is released/in prerelease state, the java packages and libgcc[14] will be built from the gcj-4.2 sources.
* Change the long double data type on sparc and powerpc from 64bit to 128bit, essential for glibc-2.4
** Requires rebuild of packages exposing "long double" in the API of the package (Ldbl128Main, Ldbl128Universe); we don't require renaming of the library packages, only supporting dist-upgrades from edgy to feisty.
** Requires rebuild of packages using the changed ABI.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

* Define versions to use in feisty
* Select proposals suggested at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdgyPlusOneToolchainRoadmap
* Demoting/removing old compiler versions
** gcc-4.0
* long-double-128 change on powerpc and sparc
** Ldbl128Main
** Ldbl128Universe

----
CategorySpec
