{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


Ubuntu 7.04 BETA

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the beta release of Ubuntu 7.04.

Ubuntu 7.04 is the most user-friendly Ubuntu to date and includes a ground-breaking Windows migration assistant, excellent wireless networking support and improved multimedia support.

Ubuntu 7.04 server edition adds support for hardware facilities that speed up the use of virtual machines as well as other improved hardware support, making it an excellent choice as a web, database, file and print server, the fastest growing area of Linux server use.

Desktop highlights
------------------

Windows migration tool: The new migration tool recognises Internet Explorer bookmarks, Firefox favourites, desktop wallpaper, AOL IM contacts, and Yahoo IM contacts, and imports them into Ubuntu during installation. This offers easier and faster migration for new users of Ubuntu and individuals wanting to run a dual-boot system.

Easy-to-install codec wizards: A new guided wizard for installing codecs not shipped with Ubuntu gives users a safe way of installing codecs they can legally use to view multimedia content.

Plug and play network sharing with Avahi: This new feature allows users to automatically discover and join a wireless network and share music, find printers and more.

Server highlights
-----------------

Virtualisation support: On x86 systems with the Intel VT or AMD-V extensions, Kernel-based Virtual Machine support (KVM) allows users to run multiple virtual machines running unmodified Linux. Each virtual machine has private virtualised hardware: a network card, disk, graphics adapter, and so on. We have also added VMI support, which provides optimised performance under VMWare.

Kubuntu highlights
-------------------

Xubuntu highlights
-------------------

Xfce 4.4: After more than two years of development, Xfce 4.4.0 has just been released. Xfce 4.4 features new tools such as the much awaited Thunar file manager as well as several huge improvements of its core components. Xfce is a lightweight desktop environment. Designed for productivity, it loads and executes applications fast, while conserving system resources.

Artwork: Xubuntu 7.04 incorporates new, glossy artwork to give Xubuntu a professional and friendly desktop environment.

Edubuntu highlights
-------------------

Thin client: Edubuntu integrates the latest thin client technology out of the box. Edubuntu Classroom Server consists of two CDs, a server image and a server add-on image with additional education applications and languages. 

Improved documentation: The Edubuntu handbook with tips and best practices for educators and educational IT administrators is included.

Thin Client highlights
----------------------
 
Print and sound support: Jetpipe, a new printing architecture for thin clients, greatly improves on previous technologies.  Sound support in applications is also dramatically improved with the PulseAudio sound server.

Thin client management: Administrators can now manage thin client connections to a server more easily.

Other
-----

* On the Desktop: GNOME 2.18, OpenOffice.org 2.2.0rc3, X.org 7.2

* On the Server: Apache 2.2, PostgreSQL 8.2, PHP 5.2.1, LTSP 5.0

* "Under the hood": GCC 4.1.2, glibc 2.5, Linux 2.6.20, Python 2.5

The full release notes can be found at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyFawn/Beta

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop, laptop, thin client and server, with a fast and easy install. The Ubuntu project makes no separation between our free edition and our enterprise edition - this is our best work and it is freely available.

Used by businesses, home users, schools and governments around the world, Ubuntu offers regular releases, a tight selection of excellent packages installed by default and professional commercial technical support from Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies.

Ubuntu 7.04 will be supported for 18 months on both the desktop and on the server.  Upgrades to new releases will always be free of charge.

To Get Ubuntu 7.04 Beta
-----------------------

Download Ubuntu 7.04 Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  Europe:

    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Sweden)
    http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Spain)
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (The Netherlands)
    http://ftp.snt.utwente.nl/pub/linux/ubuntu/7.04 (The Netherlands)
    http://ie.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Ireland)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Italy)
    http://pl.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Poland)
    http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Germany)
    http://bg.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Bulgaria)

  Australia:

    http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04

  Africa:

    http://za.releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (South Africa)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.04 (Great Britain)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

To upgrade from Ubuntu 6.10 to Ubuntu 7.04 Beta, follow these
instructions:

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FeistyUpgrades

The final version of Ubuntu 7.04 is expected to be released in
April 2007.

Known Bugs
----------

** Resizing ext2/ext3 file systems may fail unless a full file system
    check has just been run. To work around this, run 'e2fsck -f DEVICE'
    (where DEVICE is the name of the device in question, such as
    /dev/sda1) and retry the resize operation after that completes. When
    using the desktop CD, you can run this from a terminal window; when
    using the alternate install CD, you can press Alt-F2 to get to a
    terminal, and Alt-F1 to return to the installer.
    https://launchpad.net/bugs/94647

** Systems with JMicron IDE(PATA) chipsets may experience a crash on
    boot. This was not fixed in time for beta release, but a planned
    kernel upload just after release will rectify the problem. A work
    around has not been tested, but would involve blacklisting the
    `generic` kernel module.
    https://launchpad.net/bugs/84964

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn
this Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report bugs
through the Launchpad bug tracker:

  https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
are not sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode,
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you are new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
