{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <style="border: 1px dashed; background-color: #f0eee9; text-align: center">'''''~+KUBUNTU FEISTY FAWN RELEASE CANDIDATE HAS NOT BEEN RELEASED - UNDER CONSTRUCTION+~'''''<<BR>><<BR>>This page is being worked on by <nowiki>[[RichardJohnson|Richard Johnson]]</nowiki> <code>aka nixternal</code> - Please send all communications (i.e., suggestions, comments, and/or feedback) to <<MailTo(nixternal AT ubuntu DOT com,nixternal (at) ubuntu (dot) com)>>
|}

== Introduction ==
Feisty Fawn, the name of the latest development branch of Kubuntu, extends the new infrastructure that landed in Edgy Eft and branches out in some exciting new directions. Feature developments in the Feisty Fawn release include improvements to hardware support on laptops, desktops, and high-end servers and aggressive adoption of emerging desktop technologies.

The Release Candidate is the seventh in a series of milestone CD images that will be released throughout the Feisty development cycle as images known to be reasonably free of CD-build or installer bugs. These images represent very current snapshots of Feisty. Kubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn Release Candidate images can be downloaded from the following URL:

* Europe:
* http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Sweden)
* http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Spain)
* http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (The Netherlands)
* http://ie.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Ireland)
* http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Italy)
* http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Germany)
* http://bg.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Bulgaria)
* Australia:
* http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04
* Africa:
* http://za.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (South Africa)
* Rest of the world:
* http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Great Britain)

'''NOTE:''' ''This is a beta release. Pre-release version of Feisty are '''__NOT__''' encouraged for anyone needing a stable system or for anyone who is not comfortable running into occasional, even frequent, breakage. Pre-release versions of Feisty '''__ARE__''' recommended for Kubuntu developers and those who want to help in testing, reporting, and fixing bugs.''

Screenshots are available at: http://shots.linuxquestions.org/index.php?os=Kubuntu

==== Previous Releases of Kubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn ====
* <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Herd1/Kubuntu| Herd 1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Herd2/Kubuntu| Herd 2]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Herd3/Kubuntu| Herd 3]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Herd4/Kubuntu| Herd 4]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Herd5/Kubuntu| Herd 5]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/Beta/Kubuntu| Beta]]</nowiki>

== New In Feisty Beta ==
The Feisty Fawn Release Candidate CD brings many new and exciting applications. For this latest release of Kubuntu 7.04, usability is the common theme. Additionally, there have been updates to many common applications and changes to the default database application in Kubuntu. With every new pre-release, updates will be documented allowing you to thoroughly test your Kubuntu 7.04 installation. Remember that all of these features are part of a pre-release version of Kubuntu and may still have issues. We ask that for any problems you encounter that you file a bug if one has yet to be filed for your symptoms.<<BR>>
https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+filebug

=== Linux Kernel 2.6.20-14 ===

=== K3b 1.0 ===

=== OpenOffice.org 2.2.0 ===

=== Guidance Power Manager ===

== Feedback ==
We want to hear what you think about the release of Kubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn Release Candidate. Tell us if it Rocks, if it is just OK, or if it is flat out wrong. No matter the feedback, as long as it is in line with the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>, we would like to hear it.

So what are you waiting for? Head on over to the <nowiki>[[FeistyFawn/RC/Kubuntu/Feedback|Feedback Page]]</nowiki> and let us know!
