{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/feistyplusone-toolchain-roadmap
* '''Packages affected''': glibc, gcc*, binutils, kernel-headers

=== Summary ===

Plan preparation, testing and deployment of the feisty+1 toolchain. The procedures as handled for the feisty toolchain can be improved.

=== Rationale ===

Have a tested toolchain for feisty+1 available at the time the archives for feisty+1 open.

=== Implementation ===

* Upstream versions. Target the following upstream versions for feisty+1:
** glibc-2.6, release schedule is based on the FC release schedule; 2.6 is expected to be released in April 2007.
** gcc-4.2, release schedule not yet known; targeted around nine months after the 4.1 release, which was in February 2006.
** binutils CVS (FSF trunk), probably updated towards an 2.18 release.

* New/changed features:
** Keep -fstack-protector enabled by default for C, C++, ObjC, ObjC++; evaluate enabling it as the default for the other GCC frontends as well. Revisit the problematic packages mentioned in GccSsp.
*** Consider implying -fno-stack-protector for -nostdlib, since it can't possibly work.  This may solve a number of cases in GccSsp -JeffBailey
** Enable Read-Only Appropriate Sections globally (see separate spec MemoryProtection).
** PIE support (see separate spec MemoryProtection).

* Integration:
** Create feisty-experimental (dak based) in December
** Upload the toolchain packages to feisty-experimental
** Create and maintain f-e chroots on the developer machines

* Testing
** Do regular rebuild tests of feisty; should be done after each of the FeistyReleaseSchedule rebuild tests to compare the same set of packages (built with the feisty toolchain, and built with the experimental toolchain).
** Keep the packages built in a separate archive/machine for testing.
** Build CDs based on this archive.
* Setup environments for regression hunts in the data center for each supported architecture.
** Mirror the gcc svn repository on rookery
** Create chroots for the regression hunter on each architecture
** Setup the testing scripts

* Demote gcc-3.4 from main; requires dropping g77 from main, using gfortran to satisfy build-dependencies in main (fftw3, lapack3, python-numarray, python-numeric, refblas3) or using packages which can be built using gfortran. Apparently this may require an ABI change.

=== Unresolved issues ===

* Availability of test buildd's for architectures other than amd64/i386.

----
CategorySpec
