{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Draft announcement ===

There has been a great deal of discussion within the Ubuntu community regarding a technical proposal (the enabling of Composite support by default) which would necessitate the use of certain closed-source video drivers in a default installation of Ubuntu.  In response to this controversy, a meeting was convened among representatives of the Technical Board and Community Council to evaluate the issues.  The following conclusions were reached by this group:

* The desktop effects technology involved in this proposal is important in enabling a richer, more immersive desktop experience, and as such, is relevant to the mission of the Ubuntu project.
* There is a clear need for wider testing of open source software under development in this area, including both desktop tools and video drivers.
* The exception granted to the Ubuntu Licence Policy at the project's inception, which allows the use of closed-source components where necessary to provide sufficient hardware support, remains valid and pragmatic. For example, this exception has been applied in the past with regard to wireless network drivers. We consider making full use of video hardware to be an important component of that hardware support.
* Some of the relevant software necessary to implement this proposal is not yet considered mature enough to deploy in the default Ubuntu configuration.

Therefore:

* The proposal will be modified such that the default configuration of Ubuntu remains the same with regard to the selection of video drivers. However, new infrastructure will be implemented which allows the user to trivially enable both enhanced desktop effects and the necessary driver support.
* The Ubuntu project reaffirms that it will not include closed-source components in its default configuration except where allowed by the existing exception for the provision of sufficient hardware support. Decisions on what hardware support is sufficient for these purposes will be made on a case-by-case basis by the Technical Board and the Community Council.
* Ubuntu will monitor and support the progress of the free Nouveau driver, which offers the prospect of supporting enhanced desktop effects for users of nVidia hardware without the need for closed-source drivers.
* When the factors involved in this decision change, further consideration will be given to the possibility of changing the default configuration.

=== MDZ's notes from 2006-12-04 conference call ===

Attendees:
* Mark Shuttleworth (Community Council, Technical Board)
* Matt Zimmerman (Technical Board)
* Matthew Garrett (Technical Board)
* Scott James Remnant (Technical Board)
* James Troup (Community Council)
* Colin Watson (Community Council)

Absent:
* Benjamin Mako Hill (Community Council)

Summary of discussion points:

* Importance of a new generation of desktop effects
* Need for more community testing of development efforts in this area
* Software requirements for enabling such effects, particularly binary-only drivers provided by NVIDIA and ATI which do not meet Ubuntu's licensing guidelines
* Supportability of such drivers
* Opinions of upstream Linux developers regarding binary-only drivers
* Opinions of Ubuntu contributors regarding binary-only drivers
* Functional regressions associated with shipping a current release of compiz or beryl by default in place of metacity
* Reaffirmation of our position on binary-only drivers vs. hardware enablement (making an exception where justified)
* Need to remind the community of this position, especially that we already ship the relevant drivers and selectively enable them
* Need to communicate the process by which decisions like this one are taken
* Decision to ship enhanced functionality disabled by default, but lower the barrier to a single preference setting, eliminating the need for problematic howtos
* Consensus that this functionality is important and we plan to enable it when conditions are more favorable
* Expectation that conditions will improve substantially within 6 months
