{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
The Beta for Kubuntu 7.04 is now available for download.

Kubuntu is a user friendly operating system based on KDE, 
the K Desktop Environment. With a predictable 6 month release 
cycle and part of the Ubuntu project, Kubuntu is the GNU/Linux 
distribution for everyone.

Download Kubuntu 7.04
-----------------------------

If you are running Kubuntu 6.10 and want to upgrade to 7.04 Beta please
test our new upgrade tool.

  https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuDistUpgrade

For new installs, download the ISO CD image.  Please download using bittorrent if possible.

  Europe:

    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Sweden)
    http://es.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Spain)
    http://nl.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (The Netherlands)
    http://ie.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Ireland)
    http://it.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Italy)
    http://de.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Germany)
    http://bg.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Bulgaria)

  Australia:

    http://au.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04

  Africa:

    http://za.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (South Africa)

  Rest of the world:

    http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/7.04 (Great Britain)

What is in This Release?
-----------------------------

This release comes with the latest KDE 3.5.6 desktop.  It includes a
re-written partitioner in the desktop CD installer.  Network setup is
now easier with knetworkmanager included by default.  Our Adept
package manager includes several improvements to make it easier to
select your software sources, view changes and configure packages
graphically.  The advanced but easy to use Kexi database manager is
now included by default and for your photos we ship with the latest
Digikam 0.9.1.  Finding other computers and printers on the local
network is easier with zeroconf configured by default.  There have
also been improvements to the Guidance power manager to control your
CPU speed.

These and other changes are detailed at

   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FeistyFawn/Beta/Kubuntu

Feedback and Helping
----------------------------

If you have comments on this release please leave them on this wiki page:

   https://wiki.kubuntu.org/FeistyFawn/Beta/Kubuntu/Feedback

Please report bugs through the Launchpad bug tracker:

   http://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs

If you need help see the community and commercial support options listed at:

   http://kubuntu.org/support.php

Kubuntu is the product of many artists, testers, programmers, packagers and 
others.  Everyone is welcome to help out

   https://wiki.kubuntu.org/HelpingKubuntu

Contact
----------

For more information about Kubuntu visit our website:

   http://kubuntu.org

Press contacts are listed at:

   http://kubuntu.org/contact.php
</pre>
