{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Felix Geyer, apply for kubuntu-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Felix Geyer
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~debfx
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FelixGeyer
|}

== Who I am ==
I'm 22 years old computer science student from Karlsruhe, Germany.

== My Ubuntu story ==
=== My involvement ===
I've been using Linux since 2006 starting with Fedora Core. Then around a year later I switched to Ubuntu Feisty.<<BR>>
After having packaged new upstream versions of several applications for a few friends and myself,
I started contributing to Ubuntu in 2009.<<BR>>
In May 2010 I have become a Kubuntu member.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* Firefox KDE integration
   I worked on getting the Firefox KDE integration from openSUSE into Ubuntu.<<BR>>
   This includes <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/494067|preparing the patches]]</nowiki> for Firefox, packaging <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kmozillahelper|kmozillahelper]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://gitorious.org/firefox-kde-opensuse/firefox-kde-opensuse/merge_requests/1|fixing a few bugs]]</nowiki> upstream.

* KDE bugfixing in lucid
   At the end of the lucid development cycle I fixed several bugs in the kdebase-workspace package which all went upstream:<<BR>>
   <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/4:4.4.2-0ubuntu9]]</nowiki><<BR>>
   <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/4:4.4.2-0ubuntu10]]</nowiki><<BR>>
   <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/4:4.4.2-0ubuntu11]]</nowiki><<BR>>
   <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/4:4.4.2-0ubuntu12]]</nowiki>

* Making multimedia keys work in KDE (pushed fix to <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde4libs/4:4.3.2-0ubuntu6|our package]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://websvn.kde.org/?view=revision&revision=1060011|upstream]]</nowiki>).

* I've <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdelibs/4:3.5.10.dfsg.1-5ubuntu1|merged kdelibs]]</nowiki> (3.5) from Debian during this cycle and noticed a missing security fix in the process.

* Applied a workaround (that can be dropped once Qt is properly modularized) to qt4-x11 so QtAssitant works correctly after QtWebkit has been split into an own package.

=== Areas of work ===

* Packaging new KDE SC releases
* Maintaining various KDE related packages (especially qtcreator, amarok, synaptiks)
* Full list of my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~debfx/+uploaded-packages|package uploads]]</nowiki>

=== Things I could do better ===
Remember to add an install file when converting single to multi binary packages.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Push more of our packages to Debian (e.g. <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/609578|libindicate-qt]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/609575|kfritz]]</nowiki>).

* I'll try to reduce the <nowiki>[[Kubuntu-ReducingDiskFootprint|cd image size]]</nowiki> so we have more space for useful applications and translations.

* I plan to implement some feature in kdesudo (e.g. <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/696345|bug #696345]]</nowiki>) and to clean up the source code a bit.

=== What I like least in Kubuntu ===
Nothing specific I can think of right now.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
