{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hi, I am Felipe Lerena, a 26 years old software developer from Buenos Aires, Argentina. <<BR>> 
I am a proud member of The "Argentina LoCo Team", a team that is just starting but with a great future ahead, we are arround 110 in launchpad right now and have the most active of all the LoCo forums. <<BR>> 
I've been using Ubuntu since Hoary, and I have been getting more involved in the comunity with the time, right now I use 95% of my spare time helping in whatever I can in the comunity.

Email:  <<BR>>
My personal homepage (in spanish) is http://www.felipelerena.com.ar <<BR>>
you can also find me around in #ubuntu-ar and #ubuntu-marketing at freenode as Lipe_ <<BR>>

=== I'm Working on ===
* Starting with the development of MarketingTeam/iheartubuntu
* As one of the main developers in MarketingTeam/UbuntuStats (www.ubuntustats.com)- Trying to spread the word showing how fast everything is moving <<BR>> 
* Maintainig some functionalities in MarketingTeam/UbuntuStats
* Argentina LoCo team: giving support for new users in spanish, and helping create and stablish the Team. I have also beign assigned as the person in charge of orginizing the special activities such as conferences, trips, etc.<<BR>>
* Working in different events trying to get free software to regular people <<BR>>
* Helping in some translations to spanish (as much as my schedule allows me) in the spanish translation team, we have passed french as the most translated language<<BR>> 

=== What I've done ===
* helped to organize a "gutsy translation sprint" wich wass quite successfull, we translated almost 2500 strings, witch were arround 10% of the remaining.
* Helped in FLISOL (the biggest install fest in Latin America)
* Went to conferences along the country with my Ubuntu banner and put stands there with the ubuntu-ar guys to spread the word and meet great new people.
* Convinced lots of people (20 of them in my company) and a couple of other small companies to migrate to Ubuntu and free software.
* I gave a free 4 hours linux course for people that want to learn about Ubuntu and I'm planning to do that again.

=== I would like to ===
* Keep spending my free time trying to share my passion for Ubuntu and free software with everyone. <<BR>> 
* Try to make the public administration in Argentina to migrate to free software. (that's a hard one, I know) <<BR>>
* Meet new people as free and open-minded as me. <<BR>>
* Help fixing more bugs. <<BR>>

=== In my spare time ===
* Read some stuff. <<BR>> 
* Go out with my friends to have some drinks. <<BR>> 
* Go to the movies. <<BR>> 
* That's it, I don't have THAT much time. <<BR>>
<<BR>>
<<BR>>

I'm allways looking for something else to help with, so if you have same stuff I can do, or a nice project to ask me to help, I'll be glad.
----
CategoryHomepage
