{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About ===

Personal Page: http://www.fduran.com/

Launchpad: https://launchpad.net/people/fduran

Interested in server side, security and advocacy.

=== Ubuntu 5.10 Installation Experience ===

I just did a fresh install of 5.10 in my Dell Inspiron 8200 on top of the previous Ubuntu version I had.
I couldn't finish the installation; it would get stuck after the first reboot but after reading the documentation I found the problem: '''the Breezy Badger version needs 4 GB of disk space to be installed''' (and over 250MB for swap) even if after the installation is not using that much space. I Re-sized the partitions (I had like 3.5 GB) and problem solved.

In the new installation everything works fine (like with the precious version of Ubuntu). The only problem is my Wi-Fi PC Card (D-Link DWL-650+), it's detected but its driver doesn't work with WAP encryption (a known problem with the driver).

=== Ubuntu 5.10 LiveCD Security toolkit ===

I just started this new project of making a Ubuntu LiveCD with infosec applications: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityLiveCD

=== Ubuntu Security Levels ===

Another project, but this can be really useful and can complement other security projects like Ubuntu Hardened.

I'm trying to port Mandriva's msec utility, with some adaptation. It's a security level management tool written in Python.

The idea is to have security level baselines easy to manage by users and administrators.

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityLevels
