{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Róbert Fidrich (fidusz) ===

==== contact ====
* email: fidusz at zpok dot hu
* personal website: http://lmv.hu/blog/19
* IRC: fiusz at freenode (#ubuntu-hu)
* Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~fidusz]]</nowiki>

==== activites ====
* Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo activist
* Green Spider Foundation(Zöld Pók Alapítvány) activist: http://www.zpok.hu/
* Made a presentaion about Ubuntu in 2007 at the FSF.hu Roadshow in Törökbálint.
* Co-organizer the Szabad Szoftver Esték (Free Softver Evenings) events in 2007 and 2008.
* Organizer of installing Ubuntu in the Nyitott Műhely culture center/internet café
* Organizer of installing Ubuntu in the office of a new Hungarian green party LMP (Politics Can Be Different!) in 2009.
* Organiser of the Ubuntu.hu T-shirt projects
* Organiser of the Ubuntu LoCo Hungary Heron Watch Tour at the Hortobágy National Park in May 2008 after the release of Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron)
* Promoting Ubuntu on a local rock festival (Hegyalja Fesztivál), 2007 and 2008: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/blog/toros/hegyalja-fesztival-beszamolo]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.hu/cikk/hegyalja-fesztival]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://hegyaljafesztival.hu/]]</nowiki>)
* In September 2009 I gave interview to a socioligy student about the Ubuntu LoCo Hungary who'll write his thesyn on free software and going to meet other members of the Ubuntu LoCo Hungary too.

==== Future plans ====

* I want to organise the Ubuntu LoCo attend the Hegyalja Fesztivál next year to promote Ubuntu again.
* I was contacted by a friend to intall Linux on five computers in the Bicske Refugee Camp. I want to chack the possibilities to install Ubuntu on the machines and organize a project to do it.

==== about me ====
I am a Hungarian Ubuntu LoCo activist. I was born in 1969. I live in Budapest, and I work for MTVSZ/Friends of the Earth Hungary as GMO and Biomass campaigner. I am free sortware advocate. I've been using linux since 1999 and Ubuntu since 2004. One of the key reason for me to swith to Ubuntu that I really like the Ubuntu philosophy. I try to promote Ubuntu among NGOs and help the community life since I'm active in several NGOs and communities. regarding my hobby I'm an amateur astronomer: I regularly observe variable stars.

==== testimonials ====
András Orvos (DcNdrew): Fidusz helped the Hungarian Ubuntu Community with the T-shirt project by organizing it, storing the T-shirts and pullovers. I think he deserved to be a Member of the Hungarian Ubuntu Community.

Gábor Királyvári (kiri): fidusz is a great organizer, we could see this when he dealt with the T-shirt project a while ago. Fidusz helped me to deepen my knowledge on Ubuntu when I was a beginner and switched from the other OS. Ubuntu distribution in a summer festival is also a nice activity.
