{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/fingerprint-authentication
* '''Created''':  by ChristianNeumair
* '''Contributors''': ChristianNeumair
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Users should be able to use Fingerprint readers for authenticating themselves, using the <nowiki>[[http://www.bioapi.org/internationalversion.html|BioAPI]]</nowiki> framework, for example for login or sudo. When not being used for login or sudo functions, the fingerprint reader should send scroll signals.

=== Status of Implementation ===

A BioAPI library implementation is available from <nowiki>[[http://www.qrivy.net/~michael/blua/|Michael R. Crusoe's homepage]]</nowiki>, which also has a BioAPI PAM module.

The UPEK TouchChip (shipped with ThinkPads) <nowiki>[[http://www.upek.com/support/dl_linux_bsp.asp|offers]]</nowiki> a binary kernel module.

Gerard Klaver is working on a driver for Authentec fingerprint readers, see <nowiki>[[http://gkall.hobby.nl/authentec.html|his page]]</nowiki>. When Authentec was contacted in January of 2006, they also stated that they were working on a linux driver, to be released within six months.
 I contacted them too, after I read this page and because I will buy a Lenovo 3000 N100 soon. They told me ''"Authentec does not have a generally available Linux SDK at this time. Full support of Linux will be addressed in a future 2007 release."'' - I also looking forward to this, and its including into Ubuntu. If I can help somehow, for example testing sth. on my laptop, documenting sth. - then feel free to contact me! PS: Is there a launchpad group/project already for this?

Thanks to Andreas Grotz, the Authentec 2501 now has a working GPL driver that I could use to capture my fingerprint, see <nowiki>[[http://www.ag-networking.com/|this]]</nowiki>. It would be great if this could be integrated in Edgy+1.

Clemens Schulz is also working on a driver, that was/will be(?) available <nowiki>[[http://www.csz-online.de/projects/aes2501lnx/|here]]</nowiki>. See also <nowiki>[[http://wiki.tauware.de/blog:authentec|this]]</nowiki> blog entry by Reinhard Tartler.

There is a project on gna working on the aes2501 <nowiki>[[http://home.gna.org/aes2501/index_en.html|here]]</nowiki>.

What about <nowiki>[[http://www.reactivated.net/fprint/wiki/Main_Page|fprint]]</nowiki>? it already handles various fingerprint sensors and supports identification. Also, it seems easier than bioapi.

=== Status of Distribution Support ===

Debian packages for the BioAPI library are available from <nowiki>[[http://www.qrivy.net/~michael/temp/|Michael R. Crusoe's homepage]]</nowiki>. The PAM module and the TouchChip drivers have not been packaged yet, various pages (<nowiki>[[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_enable_the_fingerprint_reader|ThinkWiki]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://linux.spiney.org/debian_gnu_linux_on_an_ibm_thinkpad_t43p_fingerprint_reader|linux.spiney.org]]</nowiki>) provide information on additional setup steps.

** '''Debian''' effort to provide fingerprint support: http://wiki.debian.org/FingerForce
** '''Fedora''' 11 will support logging in with a fingerprint. See the <nowiki>[[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Features/Fingerprint|Fedora's wiki]]</nowiki>.

=== Plan of Action ===

I just finished creating Ubuntu packages for pam-bioapi and the upek BSP (Biometric Service Provider). They work with the bioapi 1.2.3 debian package from upstream. This is how I'd like to proceed for this:

Tasks:
* build packages for bioapi (lots of patchwork expected)
* upload working pam-bioapi and bioapi-bsp-upek packages
* ask people to create bioapi-bsp-authentec package
* be happy, dance in a circle
* start documenting/fixing the rough edges
* port the free thinkfinger driver to the bioapi interface to become a free drop-in replacement for the commercial driver

=== Potential security risks ===

As Ubuntu should provide a secure user experience, it show inform users about the potential risks of using a finger print:

* Passwords are stored in your head - your finger print is stored on every surface you touched...
* It is known, that finger print readers can be easily tricked, with faked finger prints, that were taken from surfaces. 
* Passwords can be changed - finger prints *not*

So finger prints should not be used on machines, that should be protected against illegal access. (Since the finger print is normally "stored" all over the keyboard).

=== US Export Rules ===

US Export Rules might come into play here. Basically, some parts might not be exportable from the United States. Read more at http://www.reactivated.net/weblog/archives/2006/10/fingerprinting-legal-issues-update/
----
CategorySpec
