{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/firefox-search-engines
* '''Created''': 10/31/2006 by towsonu2003
* '''Contributors''': towsonu2003
* '''Packages affected''': firefox

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu specific Firefox search engines should be included with the new releases. 

=== Rationale ===

* Connect users to the ubuntu community via quick search function (e.g. Firefox connects its users to Google with the Google engine -Ubuntu should do similar)
* Let users get help in a much efficient and quicker way.

=== Use cases ===

* '''Before''': towsonu2003 cannot get his p990i cell phone connected to Ubuntu. He now has to search a bunch of places one by one... 
* '''After''': towsonu2003 cannot get his p990i cell phone connected to Ubuntu. He types "990i" in the search engine box, selects each ubuntu-related search engine one by one and finds quickly that this is a <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62469|bug]]</nowiki> that will be fixed in Feisty (I don't have a 990i, which further demonstrates the power of this spec -I have some of the engines listed below installed). 

=== Scope ===

The feature asks to write and include the following search engines: 

* Package search for that specific release
* Bug search
* Spec search
* Ubuntu forum search
* Ubuntu wiki search
* Ubuntu help.ubuntu.com search
* Costumized Google Search "Google for Ubuntu" [see discussion below]
* Localized search (example: Joe installs Turkish Ubuntu, he gets ubuntu-tr forum search engine as well as all listed above)

=== Implementation ===

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== Discussion ===

==== See for Search Engines to get an Idea how to write the engines ====

http://mycroft.mozdev.org/download.html?name=ubuntu&sherlock=yes&opensearch=yes&submitform=Search

==== Customized Google Engine ====

Google lets you create customised search engines at http://google.com/coop/cse/ 
Maybe we could create a search engine that covers all sites with Ubuntu specific information. -MalcolmParsons2

* Added to the above list -thanks -towsonu2003

===== Existing Google Co-op Search Engines for Ubuntu Sites =====

* http://www.ubuntu-search.org - English
* http://crunchbang.org/ubuntu-search-engine - English
* http://www.uboontu.com - English
* http://www.ubuntu-france.org - French

==== Ubuntu package search ====

Firefox already ships with /usr/share/firefox/searchplugins/debsearch.src, which searches for packages in the current release. -MalcolmParsons2

==== Localised search ====

Localised search engines could be added to the mozilla-firefox-locale-* packages. -MalcolmParsons2

Indeed. Currently, mozilla-firefox ships with search plugins like wikipedia - to make them fully usable in a localized environment, they should be locale-sensitive instead of defaulting to using English sites. -KristianRink

=== References ===

* http://mycroft.mozdev.org/download.html?name=ubuntu&sherlock=yes&opensearch=yes&submitform=Search
* http://google.com/coop/cse/
* http://blog.nixternal.com/2007.01.17/firefox-search-plugins/

----
CategorySpec
