{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - smbios test ===

This test is designed to sanity check the SMBIOS data.  Currently the test is `work-in-progress' and only
scans for the SMBIOS header. In future this test will sanity check the header and associated SMBIOS data.

Typical output is as follows:

<pre>
Check SMBIOS.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Test 1 of 1: Find and Check SMBIOS Table Entry Point.
This test tries to find and sanity check the SMBIOS data structures.
PASSED: Test 1, Found SMBIOS Table Entry Point at 0xf00e0
SMBIOS Entry Point Structure:
  Anchor String          : _SM_
  Checksum               : 0xf0
  Entry Point Length     : 0x1f
  Major Version          : 0x02
  Minor Version          : 0x07
  Maximum Struct Size    : 0x8a
  Entry Point Revision   : 0x00
  Formatted Area         : 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00 0x00
  Intermediate Anchor    : _DMI_
  Intermediate Checksum  : 0x93
  Structure Table Length : 0x0acb
  Structure Table Address: 0xdae9d000
## of SMBIOS Structures : 0x0046
  SBMIOS BCD Revision    : 27

================================================================================  ==
1 passed, 0 failed, 0 warnings, 0 aborted, 0 skipped, 0 info only.
================================================================================  ==
</pre>

==== Examples: ====

<code>fwts smbios -</code>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| SMBIOSNoEntryPoint
| Could not find the SMBIOS header. This header is located on 16 byte boundaries and starts with 4 bytes: "_SM_".  For legacy BIOS the header is normally found in the region 0x000e0000..0x000fffff and UEFI systems the address is found in the SMBIOS field of /sys/firmware/efi/systab.
|}
