{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Firmware Test Suite Features and Improvements ==

(PUT your thoughts here)

* low priority wish list:
** LP#859568 method test could give references to ACPI specification when it detects non-compliant AML
** LP#853875 battery test should sanity check _BTP via /proc/acpi/battery/*/alarm - this was fixed by Alex, commit ac2eff91db6b464635fc4b95ec32f356370a6562
** LP#1244673, LP#1244676, LP#1227853 remove the need to call lspci (we can just scan /sys/bus/pci/devices instead in most cases) - done
** continue to get Coverity Scan warnings down (now just in the ACPICA components) - on going, bugs reported and/or fixes sent to ACPICA
** LP#1252303 continue to integrate in ACPICA updates - on going with each release
** LP#1246650 change test short descriptions from "Check ..." to "Test ..." - done
** LP#1246653 conditionally compile in Ubuntu specific code - done
** LP#1269076 remove lp tagging (never used) + is Ubuntu specific code - done

* fwts-live
** if the current version of live-build can build it? 
*** current config is really old (live-build v2.x based)
** move the config to a public git? (currently in a private bzr)
** Bug #1223805 [FWTS-LIVE] fwts-efi-runtime-dkms does not generate the .ko

* debian packaging
** Bug #1201250 [packaging] integrate fwts-test in the fwts package with dh_auto_test

* category tests
** for example: fwts uefi (runs uefirtmisc uefirttime uefirtvariable) and fwts acpi (all acpi tests) and so on

* acpi
** check current acpi methods and tables tests and improve them if needed
** Secretary of ACPI 5.0 SIG showed interests of using fwts-live as ACPI test suite (like UEFI SCT)

* 12.04.04 support
** kengyu does not how the RM is or whom to talk to about this.
*** from tjaalton, normal SRU rules apply
** kengyu is more confident to have the new fwts in Watauga3 (osp2)
** tjaalton sugguests to quest a backport (precise-backports)
** tracked in bug 1246644

* UEFI wish list:
** add the UEFI global variables for uefidump parser following UEFI 2.4 spec. - done.
** Secure boot variables, db,kek,pk,dbx, dbt.
** add more subtype support for uefidump scan device path following UEFI 2.4 spec. - done
** ACPI Device Path type
*** Sub-Type3 _ADR Device Path
** Messaging Device Path type - done
*** Sub-Type 21 – Fibre Channel Ex
*** Sub-Type 18 – SATA
*** Sub-Type 16– USB WWID
*** Sub-Type 17 – Device Logical unit
*** Sub-Type 20 – Vlan (802.1q)
*** Sub-type 22 SAS Ex
*** Sub-Type 19 – (iSCSI)
*** Sub Type 23 – NVM Express Namespace
** Media Device Path type - done
*** Sub-Type 5 - Media Protocol
*** Sub-Type 6 – PIWG Firmware File
*** Sub-Type 7 – PIWG Firmware Volume.
** Extend the Messaging Device Path type Vedor subtype - done
*** PC-ANSI, VT-100, VT-100+, and VT-UTF8 support
*** UART Flow Control Messaging Path support
*** Serial Attached SCSI (SAS) Device Path support
** Add a test for sanity checking for the UEFI Boot path. - postpone to U-series

== Release Schedule ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 13.11.00
| Nov 13
| 
| RM
|-
| 13.12.00
| Dec 11
| Alpha 1 on Dec 19
| kengyu
|-
| 14.01.00
| Jan 15
| Alpha2 on Jan 23
| alex
|-
| 14.02.00
| Feb 19
| Beta 1 freeze on Feb 27
| alex
|-
| 14.03.00
| Mar 19
| Final beta freeze on Mar 27
| ivan
|}

== Work items ==

(Each workitem will be reported as a bug in LP for tracking)
