{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== New Features ==
* UEFI
** Add a test for sanity checking for the UEFI Boot path.(LP: #1316019) - in progress
** Add Auth variable tests? need investigation.

== Improvements ==
* syntaxcheck - assemble/disassemble DSDT+SSDTs in one go, recent changes to iASL make this easier to do and we get better decompilation.
* continue to be in sync with latest ACPICA
* continue to sync kernel log messages with klog database
* continue to work on ACPICA to reduce the coverity scan errors down, fwts: 146/218 defects fixed, 65 outstanding
* fwts: blocked uefirt* tests block fwts indefinitely LP#1309056 
* fwts: method test could give more advice on failures LP#1281739
* UEFI
** add subtype support for uefidump scan Media device path, Sub-Type 8 – Relative Offset Range
** review the UEFI variable tests.
** improve secure boot related tests 

== Process ==
* creating rules for prefix usages, e.g. adding prefix [FEAT] to the LP bug title to denote new features or feature requests, adding prefix [FWTS-Live] for fwts-live related bugs etc.
* revise <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/FirmwareTestSuiteReportBug | bug reporting guideline]]</nowiki> to formally allow people file bugs against the FWTS project in LP directly
* collect opinions about the release process from each release manager

== Release Schedule ==
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseSchedule (draft)
* maybe also align with ACPICA releases

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Version'''
| '''Release Date'''
| '''Release Manager'''
| '''Ubuntu schedule'''
|-
| 14.05.00
| May 07
| ivan
| 
|-
| 14.06.00
| June 11
| ivan
| June 26th Alpha 1 Freeze
|-
| 14.07.00
| July 16
| yk
| July 31st  Alpha 2 Freeze
|-
| 14.08.00
| Auguest 20
| yk
| August 28th Beta 1 Freeze
|-
| 14.09.00
| September 24
| kengyu
| September 25th  Final Beta Freeze
|}

== Work items ==
* Alex
** None
* Colin
** Work on syntaxcheck
** Check the ACPICA release schedule
** Continue to sync kernel log messages with klog database
** Continue to work on ACPICA to reduce the coverity scan errors down
* Ivan
** Investigate and work on Auth variable tests
** Work on subtype support for uefidump scan Media device path
** Improve secure boot related tests
* Kengyu
** None
* YK
** Document the prefix usage guideline
** Document the bug reporting guideline
