{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - fadt test ===

For an ACPI enabled system, power management events are expected to be routed to the SCI interrupt
logic.  This routing is controlled by the SCI_EN bit in the PM1a Control Register Block.  This test checks to see
if the FADT exists (in which case we assume we are an ACPI enabled system and hence need SCI_EN set). The test then gets the address of the PM1a_CNT_BLK and reads this to get the setting of SCI_EN.

If SCI_EN is not set to 1, then routing events to SCI is disabled and this is marked as a test failure.

For more information, please refer to section 4.7.2.5 "Legacy/ACPI Select and the SCI Interrupt" of the ACPI specification.

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
sudo fwts fadt - 
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| FADTPM1CNT``Addr``Mismatch
| The 32 bit PM1_CNT_BLK address is different from the 64 bit X_PM1_CNT_BLK address.
|-
| FADTPM1CNT``Size``Mismatch
| The size of the PM1_CNT_BLK is different than that of the 64 bit X_PM1_CNT_BLK.
|-
| FADTPM1A``Invalid``Width
| The PM1_CNT_BLK width was invalid, it should be 8, 16 or 32 bits wide.
|-
| SCI_EN``Not``Enabled
| The SCI_EN bit is not enabled. It should be. This requires a BIOS fix.
|}
