{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - acpiinfo test ===

This test checks the output of the kernel ACPI driver against common error messages that indicate a bad interaction with the bios, including those that point at AML syntax errors.  The test will read the current
kernel message log and parse this for any known kernel error messages, but one can also specify a kernel log file
to parse if necessary using the -k or --klog flags.  The test does some very simple kernel log checks for known bugs and for the more obscure issues will give some advice on how to fix or workaround problems.

==== Examples: ====

<code>fwts acpiinfo -</code>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

<code>fwts acpiinfo --klog=/var/log/dmesg -</code>

..runs the test using /var/log/dmesg as the input and dumps the test results to stdout.

<code>fwts acpiinfo -k savedkernelmessages.log</code>

..runs the test using kernel messages from savedkernelmessages.log and appends the results to results.log

==== Example output: ====

<pre>
sudo fwts acpiinfo -

General ACPI information check.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Test 1 of 3: Determine Kernel ACPI version.
Kernel ACPICA driver version: 20121018, supports ACPI 5.0

Test 2 of 3: Determine machines ACPI version.
FACP ACPI Version: 4.0 

Test 3 of 3: Determine AML compiler.
Determine the compiler used to generate the ACPI AML in the DSDT and SSDT.
Table DSDT, OEM LENOVO, created with INTL (Intel) compiler.
Table SSDT0, OEM LENOVO, created with INTL (Intel) compiler.
Table SSDT1, OEM LENOVO, created with INTL (Intel) compiler.
Table SSDT2, OEM LENOVO, created with INTL (Intel) compiler.
Table SSDT3, OEM PmRef, created with INTL (Intel) compiler.
Table SSDT4, OEM PmRef, created with INTL (Intel) compiler.
</pre>
