{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - ac_adapter test ===

This interactive test sanity checks the operation of the ACPI AC power adapter detection found on netbooks and laptops.  Several tests are performed:

* Check the existence of power button(s) (in the /proc/acpi/ac_adapter/*/state fields)
* Request that the AC adapter is unplugged and plugged back in to check if an ACPI ac_adapter events occur
* Check correct ACPI state

Since this test requires user interaction it will wait for 20 seconds for each test to be actioned. Failure to do so within 20 seconds will lead to test failures.

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
fwts ac_adapter - 
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout. This test requires user interaction.

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| NoACAdapterEntry
| /proc/acpi/ac_adapter does not exist, either because /proc is not mounted or the APCI driver could not detect the device.
|-
| NoACAdapterState
| The power button /proc/acpi/button/power/*/info field did not exist. This should not occur.
|-
| NoACAdapterOnLine
| AC Adapter could not be detected on a connected on-line state.
|-
| NoACAdapterEventsOff
| Could not detect any AC Adapter off-line events.
|-
| NoACAdapterOffline
| Count not detect the AC Adapter on a disconnected off-line state.
|-
| NoACAdapterEventsOn
| Could not detect any AC Adapter on-line events.
|}
