{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - version test ===

This test simply gathers the kernel version information, boot command line and ACPI versions. Typical output from this test is as follows:

<pre>
Gather kernel system information.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Test 1 of 4: Gather kernel signature.
Signature: Ubuntu 3.8.0-7.15-generic 3.8.0

Test 2 of 4: Gather kernel system information.
Kernel Version: Linux version 3.8.0-7-generic (buildd@roseapple) (gcc version
4.7.2 (Ubuntu/Linaro 4.7.2-21ubuntu3) ) #15-Ubuntu SMP Thu Feb 21 20:07:18 UTC
2013

Test 3 of 4: Gather kernel boot command line.
Kernel boot command line: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.8.0-7-generic
root=UUID=06ef3f46-f45f-4474-9644-8e2d392e9bf7 ro quiet splash pcie_aspm=force
vt.handoff=7

Test 4 of 4: Gather ACPI driver version.
ACPI Version: 20121018

================================================================================  ==
0 passed, 0 failed, 0 warnings, 0 aborted, 0 skipped, 4 info only.
================================================================================  ==
</pre>

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
fwts version - 
</pre>

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| Kernel``Proc``Version
| Cannot get version info from /proc/version. Is /proc mounted?
|-
| Kernel``ACPI``Version
| Cannot get ACPI version info from /sys/module/acpi/parameters/acpica_version or /proc/acpi/info.  Is /sys or /proc mounted?
|}
