{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - virt test ===

Most modern Intel and AMD CPUs have virtualization capabilities however some BIOS manufacturers needlessly disable it by default. The virt test checks to see if an Intel or AMD CPU supports virtualization and if it has been disabled in the BIOS.

Typical output from this test is as follows:

<pre>
Test CPU Virtualisation Configuration.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Test 1 of 1: Check CPU Virtualisation Configuration.
Check VT/VMX Virtualization extensions are set up correctly.
PASSED: Test 1, Virtualization extensions supported and enabled by BIOS.

================================================================================  ==
1 passed, 0 failed, 0 warnings, 0 aborted, 0 skipped, 0 info only.
================================================================================  ==
</pre>

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
sudo fwts virt - 
</pre>

..runs the virt test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

<pre>
sudo fwts virt
</pre>

..runs the nx test on your machine and appends the output to the default logfile results.log

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| VirtDisabledByBIOS
| The CPU supports virtualization but this has been disabled by the firmware. The virtualization capability is checked by the "svm" flag in the /proc/cpuinfo fields and by checking if it is disabled by the firmware by examining MSR 0xC0000080 (Intel CPUs) or by checking the "vmx" flag and examining MSR 0x03a (AMD CPUs).
|}
