{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== New Features ==
* --(Anything to do that can help UTWG recommendation?)-- [UTWG now officially recommends FWTS]
* --(New test/tool for firmware update (ESRT))-- -done
* --(Look at ACPICA table dumping (via IASL) rather than our own acpidump)-- - done
* Add more ACPI table tests, some still outstanding
   -- which ones need implementing? (cking)
* --(Add --log-level option)-- - done

== Improvement ==
* --(Anything to do that can help UTWG recommendation?)-- [UTWG now officially recommends FWTS]
* Be able to build live image on 16.04 with latest live-build.
* --(sync up boot path with uefi spec 2.5, with uefidump and uefibootpath test.)-- - done
** Hardware Device Path - done
** Messaging Device path - done
** Media Device Path - done
** any global variable worth to dump and test. - done
* Add an "OEM" option to FWTS Live (suggested by Alex)
* Add an option to disable Medium or below? (by default shows all results)
** For FWTS as well

== Process/Others ==
* Wiki page
** --(Consolidate wiki pages? Currently we have two: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/fwts )--  - done
** Definition of severity
** How-to-contribute guide, like where to submit patches
* README file?
* fwts.ubuntu.com - currently it is a file directory
* --(Clean up LP PPA, some PPAs are outdated or not used, or can be consolidated.)-- -done
** https://launchpad.net/~firmware-testing-team
** There are Stable, Unstable Crack and Unstable Latest.
** Decision: will keep them, but corrected the descriptions of the PPAs to reflect their purposes.

== Release Schedule ==
* https://launchpad.net/fwts/xenial

== Work items ==
* Alex

* Colin

* Ivan

* Kengyu

* Alberto

* Anthony
