{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablebgcolor="#f1f1ed" tablewidth="40%" tablestyle="margin: 0pt 0pt 1em 1em; float: right; font-size: 0.9em;"style="padding: 0.25em;"><<BR>>
|}

== About ==
Firmware Test Suite (FWTS) is a test suite that performs sanity checks on firmware. It is intended to identify BIOS, UEFI, ACPI and many other errors and if appropriate it will try to explain the errors and give advice to help workaround or fix firmware bugs.  It is primarily intended to be a Linux-centric firmware troubleshooting tool.

== News ==
UEFI Forum Board of Directors announces Firmware Test Suite (FWTS) has been recommended as the ACPI 6.5 Self-Certification Test (SCT)!

UEFI Forum Board of Directors announces Firmware Test Suite (FWTS) has been recommended as the ACPI 6.3 Self-Certification Test (SCT)!

UEFI Forum Board of Directors announces Firmware Test Suite (FWTS) has been recommended as the ACPI 6.1 Self-Certification Test (SCT) on 11 July 2017!

UEFI Forum Board of Directors announces Firmware Test Suite (FWTS) has been recommended as the ACPI 5.1 Self-Certification Test (SCT) on 1 Dec 2015!

== Source ==
* Git tree: <nowiki>[[https://github.com/fwts/fwts | https://github.com/fwts/fwts]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~firmware-testing-team/fwts/+git/fwts | lp:fwts]]</nowiki>

== Download ==

The latest version is 26.01.00, which can be downloaded at <nowiki>[[https://github.com/fwts/fwts/archive/refs/tags/V26.01.00.tar.gz]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://fwts.ubuntu.com/release/fwts-V26.01.00.tar.gz]]</nowiki>. its release notes can be found <nowiki>[[FirmwareTestSuite-ReleaseNotes-26.01.00 | here]]</nowiki>.

Past releases can be downloaded from <nowiki>[[http://fwts.ubuntu.com/release/]]</nowiki>, and their release notes can be found on <nowiki>[[FirmwareTestSuite-ReleaseNotes | this page]]</nowiki>.

=== PPA ===

==== Stable release ====
We are continually finding new ways that firmware can be broken, and hence fwts is continually
being improved to detect firmware issues.  Every release cycle a stable version of fwts is uploading into Universe and occasional updates appear as bug fix releases.  However, a PPA
is provided containing more up-to-date version of fwts.

The <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~firmware-testing-team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa-fwts-stable | stable PPA]]</nowiki> contains more stable updates, generally code that has been tested for quite a while and is thus less likely to contain new features that cause breakage. To install from this <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~firmware-testing-team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa-fwts-stable | PPA]]</nowiki> use:

<pre>
    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:firmware-testing-team/ppa-fwts-stable
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install fwts
</pre>

== Documentation ==
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/Reference

== Firmware Test Suite Live Image (fwts-live) ==
fwts-live is a bootable USB image that will automatically boot and run the Firmware Test Suite on both legacy BIOS as well as native UEFI Firmware. The test results are stored on the USB device and can be analysed on the fly or later on another computer.

For more details, please visit the sub-page <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/FirmwareTestSuiteLive | FirmwareTestSuiteLive]]</nowiki>.

== Snap for FWTS ==
fwts snap is also supported, https://snapcraft.io/fwts/releases

* FWTS snap needs full access to system resources, such as ACPI tables, so it should be installed with devmode confinement as below, 
<pre>
    $sudo snap install --beta --devmode fwts
    $sudo su
    $/snap/bin/fwts
</pre>
== Community ==

=== Mailing Lists ===
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/fwts-announce | fwts-announce]]</nowiki> : Formal announcements for the FWTS and the FWTS-Live projects.
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/fwts-devel | fwts-devel]]</nowiki> : Patches, discussions about the FWTS and the FWTS-Live projects.

=== Bug Reporting & Tracking ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/FirmwareTestSuiteReportBug | How to report a bug to fwts team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/FirmwareTestSuiteBugPrefix | FWTS Bug Prefix Guideline]]</nowiki>

=== Release Process ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite/FirmwareTestSuiteReleaseCadence | Release Schedule / Cadence / Versioning]]</nowiki>
