{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== New Features ==
* Check to see if SMM (SMI handler) is locked down and can't be hacked (SMM BIOS Write Protect Disable (SMM_BWP)— R/WLO).  Also see if BIOS is locked..
** see https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-14/materials/arsenal/us-14-Bulygin-CHIPSEC-Slides.pdf  http://www.cs.usfca.edu/~cruse/cs630f08/smram.c, and http://www.ssi.gouv.fr/archive/fr/sciences/fichiers/lti/cansecwest2006-duflot.pdf
** team agrees this will improve the security 
* All efi_runtime driver functions support for the Intel Supervisor Mode Access Prevention (SMAP) feature enabled.
** ivan will re-work the efi_runtime driver .  ivan will help to verify if this bdw only or not.
* Collect more information such as kernel/module parameters in fwts and fwts-live
** we can improve the “version” test, alex will send out the patches for this and to update the docs
* Enable secure boot on fwts-live
** alex will help to investigate whether we can use ibs to build it and enable SB by default

== Improvements ==
* Continual monthly sync with ACPICA
** colin will keep sending in ACPICA update patches monthly.
* Sync klog with 3.18, 3.19.. kernels
** colin will help to keep updating this
* All sign up to the <nowiki>[[https://01.org/zh/linux-uefi-validation | LuvOs]]</nowiki> project (since they are a fwts consumer) https://01.org/linux-uefi-validation/get-involved
** team will subscribe to this project
* Ask the <nowiki>[[https://01.org/zh/linux-uefi-validation | LuvOs]]</nowiki> project if they need any new features?
** team will try to work on this via multiple channels
* sync up the smicheck to SMBIOS vesion 2.8.0, and 3.0.0(not yet released, target 2014 Q4 released)
** Ivan will own this work, will keep monitoring the status and submit patches accordingly
* Implement more ACPI method tests
** YK will follow up with alex
* Release fwts-live with Utopic kernel
** yk will work with alex to try build two versions : stable and devel
* Investigate inconsistent results when running s3 test with --pm-method=logind, pm-utils, or sysfs
** kengyu will keep working on this, will work with alberto
* restart ITP in debian
** my last package reviewers said he does not have the enough background knowledge after a few rounds to review. So I am seeking a new one.
** kengyu will talk to kamal and timo if needed

== Process ==
* whether to publish the fwts release process ?
** not many people care about this, does not matter much.  the team agrees to let YK draft a brief summary and send to team for review
* better maintaining the public fwts docs ?
** team agrees to assign this part of work to release manager
* automate the building for fwts-live, using IBS ?
** Alex and YK will explore and try to automate the builds

== Release Schedule ==
* https://launchpad.net/fwts/vivid

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Version'''
| '''Release Date''
| '''Release Manager'''
| '''Ubuntu schedule'''
| 
|-
| 14.11.00
| Nov/19/2014
| Alex
| N/A ATM
| 
|-
| 14.12.00
| Dec/18/2014
| Alex
| N/A ATM
| * Dec/22 ~ Jan/2 Chrismas in western
|-
| 15.01.00
| Jan/21/2015
| Ivan
| Jan/22 Beta 2
| 
|-
| 15.02.00
| Mar/4/2015
| Ivan
| N/A
| * Feb/18 ~ Feb/27 CNY in Taiwan
|-
| 15.03.00
| Mar/31/2015
| Kengyu
| Apr/16 Final Freeze
| 
|}

== Work items ==
* Alex
** Work with YK to automate the FWTS building
** Investigate whether we can use ibs to build FWTS/FWTS-Live and enable SB by default
** Send out the patches to collect more information such as kernel/module parameters in fwts and fwts-live
* Colin
** Check to see if SMM (SMI handler) is locked down and can't be hacked
** Keep maintaining ACPICA code
** Keep Syncing klog with 3.18, 3.19.. kernels
* Ivan
** Improve the efi_runtime driver, verify if the SMAP issue only impacts BDW
** Sync up the smicheck to SMBIOS version 2.8.0, and 3.0.0
* Kengyu
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/fwts/+bug/1381462 Unable to run hybrid-suspend with fwts 14.09
** Seek a good mentor to help with fwts ITP in debian
** Investigate inconsistent results when running s3 test with --pm-method=logind, pm-utils, or sysfs
* Alberto
** None
* YK
** Draft a brief summary about FWTS release process and send to team for review
** Work with Alex to automate the FWTS building, build both Stable and Devel versions
** Follow up with Alex about implementing more ACPI method tests
