{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - battery test ===

This interactive test sanity checks the operation of the battery (or batteries) found on netbooks and laptops.  Several tests are performed:

* Check the existence of batteries.
* Check that discharging can be detected.
* Check that charging can be detected.

The test will exercise each battery in the system one at a time.  One will be asked to ensure the AC power is connected before the test commences, then be asked for it to be removed (to discharge the battery) and then plugged back again (to recharge the battery).

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
fwts battery - 
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout. This test requires user interaction.

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| Battery``No``Events
| Did not detect any ACPI battery events.
|-
| Battery``Not``Charging
| A battery claims it is charging but no new charge seems to be have been added to the battery.
|-
| Battery`Not``Discharging
| A battery claims it is discharging but no observable discharge has been detected.
|-
| Battery``No``State
| A battery exists but the state information in /proc/acpi for this battery does not exist.
|}
