{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - apicinstance test ===

This test checks that the <nowiki>[[http://www-pc.uni-regensburg.de/hardware/TECHDOK/BIOS_32BIT_SERVICE.PDF|Standard BIOS 32-bit Service Directory]]</nowiki> header is sanely configured. 

Example output from this test:

<pre>
Check BIOS32 Service Directory.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Test 1 of 1: Check BIOS32 Service Directory.
This test tries to find and sanity check the BIOS32 Service Directory as defined
in the Standard BIOS 32-bit Service Directory Proposal, Revision 0.4 May 24,
1993, Phoenix Technologies Ltd and also the PCI BIOS specification.
Found BIOS32 Service Directory at 0x000f2550
  Signature  : _32_
  Entry Point: 0x000fc200
  Revsion    : 0x00
  Length     : 0x01
  Checksum   : 0x0b

PASSED: Test 1, Service Directory Entry Point 0x000fc200 is not in high memory.
PASSED: Test 1, Service Directory Length is 1 (1 x 16 bytes) as expected.
PASSED: Test 1, Service Directory Revision is 0x00 and is supported by the
kernel.
PASSED: Test 1, Service Directory checksum passed.
</pre>

==== Examples: ====

<code>sudo fwts bios32 -</code>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| BIOS32SrvDirEntryPointHighMem
| Service Directory Entry Point is in high memory and hence cannot be used by the kernel.
|-
| BIOS32SrvDirEntryLength
| Service Directory structure is the wrong size, it should be 16 bytes long.
|-
| BIOS32SrvDirRevision
| Service Directory revision is not recognised and may not be supported by the kernel.
|-
| BIOS32SrvDirCheckSum
| Service Directory checksum error.
|-
| BIOS32MultipleSrvDirInstances
| Multiple Service Directories were found, there should be just one.
|}
