{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - s3power test ===

This test roughly determines how much power has been used by a laptop or netbook during suspend. The tests requires the user to unplug the machine from mains power and then it suspends the machine for a default of 10 minutes and then resumes and estimates how long the machine could stay suspended for.  However, this is just
a rough estimate as power is consumed doing the suspend and resume, hence more accurate results are achieved by
suspending for longer (for example multiples of hours). The --s3power-sleep-delay option can be used specify the sleep time (in seconds) to override the default 10 minute suspend time.

==== Example: ====

<pre>
sudo fwts s3power - 
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

<pre>
sudo fwts s3power --s3power-sleep-delay=7200 -r suspend.log
</pre>

..run the test and suspend for 2 hours, append the results to suspend.log

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| Bad``Wake``Alarm``S3``Power
| Wakealarm does not work, cannot automatically wake the machine up during suspend.
|-
| Short``Suspend``Life``24hrs
| System cannot remain suspended for 1 day
|-
| Short``Suspend``Life``36hrs
| System cannot remain suspended for 1.5 days
|-
| Short``Suspend``Life``48hrs
| System cannot remain suspended for 2 days
|-
| Short``Suspend
| System failed to remain suspended for the time specified, perhaps it could not suspend and bounced back out of resume almost immediately because of a BIOS bug.
|-
| Long``Suspend
| System was in suspend for longer than expected, perhaps the wakealarm fails to work during suspend.
|-
| PM``Action``Failed``Pre``S3
| pm-suspend failed to suspend the machine and returned error 128.
|-
| PM``Action``Power``State``S3
| pm-suspend failed to put the machine into the S3 (suspend) state and returned error 129.
|-
| PM``Action``Failed``S3
| pm-suspend failed to suspend the machine and returned error 130.
|}
