{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - crs test ===

The _CRS test checks to see if the kernel is configuring PCI host bridge windows using the appropriate ACPI object _CRS (Current Resource Settings).  For more information on _CRS see section 6.2.2 of the ACPI reference and also arch/x86/pci/acpi.c in the kernel for the PCI host bridge configuration.

Please note:

* The test will skipped if the machine was booted with kernel option"pci=nocrs" because the kernel was told to explicitly ignore host bridge windows _CRS settings.
 
The test will fail if:

* The kernel cannot determine the BIOS age, so it has to assume the the BIOS is too old to correctly specify the host bridge MMIO aperture using _CRS.  One can force the use of _CRS by specifying "pci=use_crs".
* The BIOS age is new enough, pci=nocrs is not being used but the kernel has ignored the use of _CRS for some reason.
* The BIOS age is new enough, pci=crs is being used unnecessarily and the kernel is using _CRS.
 
Otherwise the test will pass the machine's configuration.

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
sudo fwts crs - 
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

<pre>
sudo fwts crs
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and appends the output to the default log results.log.

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| BIOS``Too``Old
| BIOS was made before 2008 and is tool old to probably support this feature.
|-
| BIOS``No``Release``Date
| Kernel could not determine the age of the BIOS.
|-
| BIOS``Support``Bridge``Windows
| BIOS supports _CRS bridge windows, but has been booted with pci=use_crs which is unnecessary and can be removed.
|}
