{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Firmware Test Suite Release Cadence ==

FWTS is released every two months when there are no critical issues, with two exceptions, April and October, when features are locked for Ubuntu release.

== Goals ==

This document is the proposal to a few changes of the fwts release cadence and the versioning scheme. The aim of the proposal is to make fwts more aligned to the Ubuntu release schedule and offer a simpler versioning.

== Benefits ==
* Simple versioning 
** good for the advertisement and promotion to ODMs
** indication to the maturity

* Time-based Release
** clear milestones from the perspective of project management.
** bugs can be assigned to a milestone; clear and open to people outside of fwts team.
** if the schedule is aligned to Ubuntu, it is possible for the distro QA to test fwts
** cert. checkbox already uses fwts, we should think of the possibility if the distro checkbox will use fwts too in the future.

== fwts-test verification stage ==
** As we are all not full-time on fwts, it is good to spread the workload over the 6-month development cycle.
** It is a hope that the team can focus on new feature developing on the first 3 releases, and focus on the QA on the last two, so 
*** On the first 3 releases, there will be the fwts-test report with each, but it is not required to pass all of them for a qualified release.
*** On the last 2 releases, there will be the fwts-test verification stage before the release (as there is now). And it is required to pass all of them for a qualified release.

== Versioning ==
* It is decided to align the version with the Ubuntu release.
* The versioning scheme will be '''year.month.minor''' since the 13.10 development cycle
    - refer to the table below

== Time-based Release ==
* A time-based release cadence is adopted, all releases are outlined in https://launchpad.net/fwts/+series.

== Release Note ==
* To provide the release note with at least the following 3 sections
** new features
** fixed bugs
** known issues
