{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Firmware Test Suite - hpet_check test ===

The hpet_check test sanity checks the <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HPET|High Precision Event Timer]]</nowiki> (HPET) configuration on the machine. It performs several distinct tests:

* Check HPET base in kernel log.
* Sanity check HPET configuration.
* Check HPET base in DSDT and/or SSDT.

Example of the output of this test is as follows:

<pre>
HPET configuration test.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Test 1 of 4: Check HPET base in kernel log.
This test checks the HPET PCI BAR for each timer block in the timer. The base
address is passed by the firmware via an ACPI table. IRQ routing and
initialization is also verified by the test.
PASSED: Test 1, Found HPET base 0xfed00000 in kernel log.

Test 2 of 4: Check HPET base in HPET table. 
Hardware ID of Event Block:
  PCI Vendor ID              : 0x8086
  Legacy IRQ Routing Capable : 1
  COUNT_SIZE_CAP counter size: 1
  Number of comparitors      : 3
  Hardwre Revision ID        : 0x1
Lower 32 bit base Address    : 0xfed00000
  Address Space ID           : 0x0
  Register Bit Width         : 0x0
  Register Bit Offset        : 0x0
  Address Width              : 0x0
HPET sequence number         : 0x0
Minimum clock tick           : 0x80
Page Protection              : 0x0 (No guaranteed protection)
OEM attributes               : 0x0
PASSED: Test 2, HPET looks sane.

Test 3 of 4: Check HPET base in DSDT and/or SSDT. 
PASSED: Test 3, HPET base matches that between DSDT and the kernel (0xfed00000).

Test 4 of 4: Sanity check HPET configuration.
PASSED: Test 4, Vendor ID looks sane: 0x8086.
PASSED: Test 4, Valid clock period 69841279.

================================================================================  ==
5 passed, 0 failed, 0 warnings, 0 aborted, 0 skipped, 0 info only.
================================================================================  ==
</pre>

==== Examples: ====

<pre>
sudo fwts hpet_check - 
</pre>

..runs the test on your machine and dumps the output to stdout.

=== Explanation of test results ===

Certain test results may require a little more explanation. This section will try and give some context to specific test failures.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Error ID
| Explanation
|-
| HPET``Base``Mismatch
| The HPET base address differs from what the kernel believes it is and what the DSDT is reporting it to be in the HPET Device definition.
|-
| HPET``Vendor``Id
| The HPET Vendor ID is invalid.
|-
| HPET``Clock``Period
| The HPET clock period is invalid. It must be non-zero and less than 10^8.
|}
