{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

I am Adolfo Jurgen Fitoria team contact of the Ubuntu Nicaragua Local Team. I joined in June 2007 and I am currently studying 7th semester of Systems Engineering at <nowiki>[[http://ies.uni.edu.ni|Instituto de Estudios Superiores]]</nowiki> in Managua, Nicaragua

=== Contact information ===

* IRC: fitoria at freenode.net
* Launchpad https://launchpad.net/~aj-fitoria
* Email fitoria at ubuntu dot org dot ni
* Email adolfo at fitoria dot net
* Email adolfo.fitoria at gmail dot com
* Blog http://fitoria.net

=== Events ===

* Helping in the organization of several FLOSS events like <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/centralandsouthamerica/Nicaragua|Software Freedom Day 07]]</nowiki>,   <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/|Linux Tour]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/centralandsouthamerica/Nicaragua | Software Freedom Day 08]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[http://documentfreedom.org/Grupo_de_Usuarios_GNU/Linux_de_Nicaragua|Document Freedom Day]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[http://documentfreedom.org/2008/Nicaragua/Managua|review and pics here]]</nowiki>  and more.
* In charge of <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/centralandsouthamerica/Nicaragua | Software Freedom Day Nicaragua 2008 Installfest]]</nowiki>
* Co-organized Document Freedom Day 2009 and gave a talk about free document formats (<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/adolfo.fitoria/DFD09UENIC#5317256784407005394 | Link  to picture]]</nowiki>
* Helped in <nowiki>[[http://sl-centroamerica.org/wiki/Ecsl2009 Primer Encuentro Centroamericano de Software Libre]]</nowiki> (first cental-american free software submit)
* Organized Flisol Nicaragua 2009 (Latin American Free Software Installation Festival)
* In charge of <nowiki>[[http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/centralandsouthamerica/Nicaragua | Software Freedom Day Nicaragua 2009 registration area.]]</nowiki>

=== My Talks ===

* Web Development with Django
* Command Line Kung Fu
* Ubuntu and Free Software
* What is Kubuntu?
* Programming with Mono.

=== Contributions ===

* Part of the Ubuntu Nicaragua Team Community Council 
* Translations in <nowiki>[[https://translations.launchpad.net/~aj-fitoria|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Giving conferences about Ubuntu and FLOSS ( <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/adolfo.fitoria/Uni/photo#5193774506566679970 | UNI]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.co.uk/byroncorrales/DocumentFreedomDay08/photo#5182276206823244402 | DFD 08]]</nowiki> )
* Developed <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/sfd-reg | SFD-REG]]</nowiki> a registry system for Software Freedom Day Nicaragua 08 released under GPL (<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/linuxtour/SFDNicaragua2008#5248622952171632818 | SFD-REG in Use]]</nowiki>. <nowiki>[[http://registro.linuxtour.org | SFD-REG in production]]</nowiki>)
* Support in #ubuntu-ni IRC channel and mailing list.
* Channel operator in #ubuntu-ni.
* Promoting FOSS everywhere (<nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/agusro2310/Fotos1DiaConLaUCA#5235316614358507890  | photo]]</nowiki>) 
* Giving talks about FLOSS and Ubuntu in our Pizza Bash activities. (<nowiki>[[http://www.linuxtour.org/Categor%C3%ADa:Pizza-Bash | More about Pizza Bash]]</nowiki>)

=== My work outside the Ubuntu Community ===

* Colaboration in <nowiki>[[http://almidon.org/ | Almidón]]</nowiki> (GPL licenced php cms system)
* Amarok2 Plugin for Emesene (<nowiki>[[http://emesene.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/emesene?view=rev&revision=1532 | Link]]</nowiki>)
* Featured in LinuxJournal article for my contribution in Albastryde. <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/nicaragua-builds-innovative-agricultural-information-system-using-open-source-software | More info here]]</nowiki>
* Third Guitarrist for <nowiki>[[http://orquestaarmandomoralesb.com | Orquesta Armando Morales Barillas ]]</nowiki> / <nowiki>[[http://myspace.com/octetoarmandomoralesb | MySpace Site ]]</nowiki>

=== Plans for the Future ===

* Learn packaging and become a MOTU.
* Helping to introduce Ubuntu at public schools and universities.

=== Cheers from the community ===
* Fitoria is one of the "geniuses" of the Ubuntu Nicaragua Team. He's a young leader that has a bright future. Taking in account his passion in promoting Ubuntu and all his hard work inside and outside his University, I support him becoming an official Ubuntu Member. '''leogg at ubuntu.com'''

* Fitoria is always promoting FOSS, his dedication to the community is awesome. He is one of the betters programmers in the community and as leo says, he has a bright future in the FOSS world. https://wiki.ubuntu.com/norm

* I have came across Fitoria in almost any FOSS activity that I have attended or helped. I think he is a good member "all-around", as he is coding for the local community, always available, supporting people, has a good ideas for improving the local FOSS community, good at designing and also has a good sense of humor. He is really raising the bar to which all of us have to be measured up as FOSS activist. '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nacross|Neville A. Cross]]</nowiki> '''

* You will find Fitoria at every FOSS event; his dedication and will to promote Ubuntu and OpenSource makes him a very valuable member of our Community. '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~glock24|Guillermo Belli]]</nowiki> '''

* He's the man behind the courtain. A shy guy in the real world who is the brain of the projects that makes the community better. '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nomada|Nòmada]]</nowiki> '''
	
* Fitoria is a great example of how a person can make its maximum effort for the development of the FOSS community. I've been his companion throughout his development in the community, first being a simple user, then move on to formal member of ubuntu-ni and eventually be part of the community council. he is a responsible person, worker and has as his priority support with his abilities to the future of our community.'''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~byroncorrales|Byron Corrales]]</nowiki> '''

* Fitoria is a very active member of LUG (Linux User Group) here in this country, he has made conferences, activities related to FOSS, and also has been partipating in events like SFD, FLISOL, Linux Tour, and many others proving that he is good at it. We see him a lot in IRC ubuntu channels, and also helping and contributing in mailing list, also making contributions to the Local Community, designing, helping people resolving problems in hardware like printing, programming, wifi.  
 '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~willbrod|William Bustos Rodriguez. ]]</nowiki> '''

* Not only you're helping by volunteering in activities, but also your coding ... i really admire your efforts in the community and i really hope you get to be an official Ubuntu member. You deserve it!!!! '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lafieramarina|LaFieraMarina]]</nowiki> '''

* He is the guy behind our coding projects, he did the registry system for SFD08, without him probably the event would have been a mess - Igor Guerrero - https://launchpad.net/~igorgue

* Ubuntu-ni earns a very important element with Fitoria. In future he's a top piece in Ubuntu's community. And not only to Ubuntu, but also to all free and open source software community in Nicaragua. Arriba Fitoria! '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~6336737|Joel Davila]]</nowiki> '''

* Fitoria is one of the most valuable members of Ubuntu-ni, has contributed greatly to the community and has demonstrated a strong belief in free software.. '''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~jorsol|Jorge Solórzano]]</nowiki>'''
