{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''I, FanJun Kong, apply for ubuntu member.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| FanJun Kong
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| http://launchpad.net/~fjkong
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| http://wiki.ubuntu.com/fjkong
|}

=== About Me ===

My name is FanJun Kong, live in Beijing China, my first try of linux is 2004 and an Ubuntu user at 2005. Now I am a member of the Ubuntu Desktop Team, employed by Canonical. Before I join Canonical, I worked at SUSE for 3 years on Gnome related stuff.

I am also an <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amateur_radio|amateur radio]]</nowiki> (also called Ham radio), my callsign <nowiki>[[http://www.qrz.com/db/BH1SCW|BH1SCW]]</nowiki>. I love Morse Code so I enjoy the CW very much and never get tired. Hope have a nice QSO with you with CW or SSB on HF, VY 73!

{{http://www.hrdlog.net/callplate.aspx?user=BH1SCW}}

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| kroodylove #gmail.com
|-
| IRC
| FJKong on irc.freenode.net
|}

=== My Ubuntu story ===
I started to use Ubuntu with a DVD which was sent from other country, I was so exciting then I installed it at once, from that time I am in this big world. Every time there was a new version I will download and have a try. 
Now my laptop and VPS are all ubuntu, yeah~

=== My involvement ===
I am involved in Gnome project like evince, gnome-control-center, gdm, input method etc.
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
In the past few months, I am a developer of Sogou Input method for ubuntu-kylin, this is big change of inuptting Chinese. It makes inputting faster and more fluent. Now more than 15,000 people install and start to use this. Besides this I also take part in other projects:youker-assistant software center. we are making ubuntu-kylin better and better for Chinese users.
=== Areas of work ===
* fixing bugs for Desktop components
* developing software for ubuntu/ubuntu-kylin.
* input method
=== Things I could do better ===
* Better input experience for Chinese users.
* Customize utuntu-kylin and make it easier to use for Chinese.
* Spread ubuntu to more learnners, guiding them how to enter this linux world.
=== Plans for the future ===
well, my plan for the future is :
 
* Help developing on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubuntu%20Kylin|Ubuntu Kylin]]</nowiki> projects, we want it be a better flavor for Chinese users
* keeps fixing bugs on Gnome related packages.
* I think I can help maintain <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-hams|Ubuntu Amateur Radio]]</nowiki> team, because it is better to let more people know this and help them join in us.
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

=== Comments ===
If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fjkong]]</nowiki> .
