{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Flash Experience (Intrepid Spec) ===

* Blueprint: UbuntuSpec:flash-experience-intrepid
* Related Blueprints: UbuntuSpec:free-flash
* Drafter: AlexanderSack
* Target: Intrepid and beyond

==== General Objectives ====

* Provide the user with a seamless Flash experience; this includes ease
 of install as well as a pleasant Flash user-experience.
* Support Free Flash as much as possible; the long-term goal is to ship
 a free Flash alternative by default.

==== Status Summary (Hardy) ====

In hardy, ubufox ships a custom Plugin Finder Wizard
implementation. The core changes done to the pristine
Plugin Finder Wizard shipped by Mozilla are:

* Present multiple results (aka choices) to the user in
 the Plugin Finder Wizard result-window.

* Support apt: URLs as package URLs in the plugin finder
 results retrieved from the website. This includes a
 apturl installer backend which is triggered to install
 apt: plugins selected by the user.

* Present a graphical hint what installation method is used
## Firefox .xpi result distributed on the net (as delivered by the pfs.mozilla.org webservice).
## apt: urls to install packages if the user has administrator privileges

In hardy, the Ubuntu-shipped Flash products are installed in a
global location. When more than one Flash alternative is available,
users with admin role can select the system-wide default using
the Debian/Ubuntu alternative mechanism. At the moment, alternative
priorities are the same, so the outcome of what is used mostly depends
on random facts (like install order, etc.)

==== Identified User Experience Issues ====

===== Apturl blocks UI thread =====

Apturl is run synchronously from within the UI thread. This means
that the UI freezes while apturl prompts for user feedback, leading
to a unpleasant and in some cases even confusing user experience.

===== Flash Detection Kit blocks Plugin Finder Service =====

Firefox doesn't prompt the user about installing a plugin using
the Plugin Finder Service if the Flash Detection Kit is used by sites.
This makes the user-experience improvements by the new Plugin Finder
Service void for lots of websites, as the user will just be provided
with a link to the Adobe Flash download page.

===== Adobe Download Page doesn't offer .debs nor apt: URLs =====

Adobe now offers .debs for Flash 10: http://fpdownload.macromedia.com/get/flashplayer/current/install_flash_player_10_linux.deb

===== Free Flash Status =====

Free Flash players still have a lot of missing features or excess bugs to be useful for
the majority of .swf files shipped on the net. It's not clear how
long it will take for free Flash to become a viable replacement
for Adobe's proprietary Flash plugin when browsing the web.

However, free Flash players try to serve users by fixing most important
sites; unfortunately, those sites change their .swf files in a way
not aligned to the Ubuntu release cycle and the current approach of
not upgrading to new upstream versions makes Flash break over time.

===== Plugin Finder Wizard lacks Description for displayed alternatives =====

Users are not aware about the differences between Flash players. The
Plugin Finder Wizard doesn't provide enough context to make a
qualified decision.

===== No user way to switch to alternative solutions =====

Though Ubuntu provides alternative Flash solutions, users have no
GUI guidance for switching the alternative. They are not even
aware that their current player might just be one out of many
alternatives available when they experience a broken Flash file
on the net.

===== Flash applets cover HTML elements =====
In websites with drop-down menus, flash applets will be placed on top of the menu so that they cannot be clicked on.

==== Proposed Solutions ====

===== Apturl blocks UI thread =====

Firefox 2 didn't support (Java-)scriptable threading facilities. In
Firefox 3 this should be possible. Thus we should be able to move
the apturl exec out of the UI thread. This requires some rewrite of the
PluginFinderWizard XUL + js code as the current code is not prepared
for any kind of asynchronous processes. It is open if and how we can
keep ubufox compatible with Firefox 2, as plain special casing - as
done in the past - is not enough.

===== Flash Detection Kit blocks Plugin Finder Service =====

We have two options to trick the Flash Detection Kit into triggering
the Plugin Finder Wizard facilities shipped by Ubuntu:

* The first option would make the Flash detection kit void by
 providing a fallback dummy plugin that pretends to be a full Flash
 implementation; instead of rendering the Flash content it would display
 the puzzle piece known from the nullplugin. This solution would probably
 require some changes to the browser/ code in order to properly detect and
 accumulate the not-served content-types in order to pop-up the "Install
 Missing Plugins ..." banner.
* The other alternative would try a less intrusive (with regards to breaking
 intended web-site experience). Using a well designed patch it should be possible
 to listen on plugin probes done through Java``Script, which in turn could
 pop-up the "Install Missing Plugins ..." banner when a probe for a Flash
 player is retrieved and no plugin is available. This approach would not
 break the website user-experience from the website-author's perspective
 and is user-experience-wise the preferred solution. However, the
 patch to allow this behaviour would go into the low-level code of gecko and
 thus might be too risky to accept.

===== Adobe Download Page doesn't offer .deb's nor apt: URLs =====

This needs to be communicated to and implemented by Adobe. Offering an
apturl that installs Adobe's Flash from our repositories is preferable
from user experience perspective.

===== Free Flash Status =====

The lack of features in free Flash is something that can only be
tackled by upstreams in the free Flash code base.

One improvement to overcome the moving target problem of .swf files
is to shape the Ubuntu SRU procedures to consider regular updates
to new upstream releases in stable releases. The identified
requirements for this are:
* free Flash provides a extensive test-suite that allows us to
 track potential regressions
* the free Flash solution doesn't export any library to a system
 libdir.

===== Plugin Finder Wizard lacks Description for displayed alternatives =====

The current meta displayed in the plugin finder wizard is stored in a
database regularly updated from package control file meta information.
The currently used Xb-Npp-* labels are:

* Xb-Npp-Applications: Mozilla Application GUIDs supported by the plugin package
* Xb-Npp-Name: The name displayed in the Plugin Finder Wizard
* Xb-Npp-MimeType: The content-types this plugin serves

To overcome the "lack of Description" problem we add a new Section
Xb-Npp-Description:

* Xb-Npp-Description: Carefully drafted description for the plugin
 which is supposed to support the user in making a qualified decision.
 This control section is a multi-line section. However, the plugin finder
 wizard is supposed to do the appropriate line breaks automatically.
 Empty lines will be interpreted as a paragraph delimiter.

===== No user way to switch to alternative solutions =====

To fix this issue, the user interface needs to provide obvious, but
not annoying hints that there are alternatives available when playing
Flash file.

We have multiple UI options to trigger the alternative selection:
# add a toolbar / statusbar item that shows up in a colored fashion when visiting a website with active Flash content (vs. greyed out or even hidden when no Flash content exists). Clicking on it should trigger the plugin finder wizard and make the user select an alternative which should then instantly be used (without requiring restart).
# temporarily display a tools hint (like a magifier) overlayed over Flash content that the user can click to trigger the plugin finder wizard to select an alternative.
# both of the above with the option to turn off the overlaying hint.

A more advanced approach would allow the user to select particular alternatives
per-Flash file. However, implementing this would require substantial work on the
gecko plugin code, which doesnt support multiple plugins for the same content type
by design.

A third option that recently was suggested is to provide a fallback mechanism in
the free Flash implementations. For this free Flash players could decide to
automatically fallback to Adobe plugin (using XEmbed) if they detect that the Flash
file uses an unimplemented feature; further, the free Flash players could provide
UI facilities (through the right-click context menu) to explicitly blacklist/whitelist
certain .swf files/sites from the free-Flash experience. Blacklisting would always
trigger the Adobe fallback, while whitelisting would stop automatic fallback when
missing implementation details are detected.

==== Implementation Details ====

* ...

==== Outstanding Issues / TODO ====
* document the details of the Flash detection kit, in particular what properties
 on the navigator and plugin info object are tested;
* outline the details on how to extend the plugin finder service to display
 description; this is supposed to include a brief description of changes required
 to the plugin finder wizard UI in ubufox, as well as a brief description how to
 extend the plugin finder service database scheme and the tools used to populate
 the database.
* draft implementation details

==== Comments ====

* KamilPáral: ad "Flash applets cover HTML elements": That should be fixed <nowiki>[[http://blogs.adobe.com/penguin.swf/2008/07/turkish_localization_also_wmod_1.html|here]]</nowiki> I think.
 	
* twright: for 'Adobe Download Page doesn't offer .debs nor apt: URLs' why not use a userscript to add one if adobe don't? 
** asac: we should not try to change pages
