{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Table of contents''' <<BR>>
|}
{{http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/49285cd0bd273264ce981119a6163f2e?s=80}}
------
== $ whoami ==
------
=== personal ===
* <nowiki>[[ https:--launchpad.net-~laoshi | My launchpad profile ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ http:--ubuntudanmark.dk-| My nick on ubuntudanmark.dk is laoshi]]</nowiki>
* My nick on irc is '''laoshi'''
* '''Signed CoC May 2008'''
* More: <nowiki>[[FlemmingChristensen-WhoAmI|$ whoami -vv]]</nowiki>
-----
=== contributions to Ubuntu ===
* Active supporter on <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntudanmark.dk/forum| Team Forum]]</nowiki>, trying to specialize in being a generalist (since May 8th 2008)
* Moderator of <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntudanmark.dk/forum| Team Forum]]</nowiki> (since December 15th 2008)
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~danish-loco-mentors|Owner of Danish LoCo Mentors]]</nowiki> (2011)
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum/viewforum.php?f=11|Writer of guides, tips and tricks for Ubuntu]]</nowiki> (since 2008)
* <nowiki>[[FlemmingChristensen-MyTranslations|Translator, mainly of help-files, to Danish]]</nowiki> (since June 2011)
 -----
=== plans and ideas for Ubuntu ===
* Continuing to keep Team Forum friendly, fast and fit.
* Stepping up translation activities
* Pushing the team mentoring activities
-----
=== Ubuntu and I - details ===
==== Community ====
* Joined <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum|The Danish Team Forum]]</nowiki> - April 26th 2008
* June 2008 contribution to an essay contest on <nowiki>[[http://www.stromata.dk/Ubuntu/kr_d_kronik.php|'Help from unexpected quarters']]</nowiki> - published on my own website, which of course has an <nowiki>[[http://www.stromata.dk/index.php|Ubuntu section]]</nowiki>
* Made moderator of Team Forum - December 11th 2008 - and still going strong.
* LoCo contact - May 15th 2011 - december 2012
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-loco-enthusiasts|Ubuntu LoCo enthusiasts]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dansk-gruppen|danskgruppen, translators]]</nowiki> - June 2011
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~launchpad-translators|launchpad translators]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-da/+members#active|Danske oversættere af projekter i launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-da|Danske oversættere af Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Founder (with <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~christian-arvai|christian.arvai]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ajenbo|Ajenbo]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nicky-thomassen|Nicky Thomassen]]</nowiki>) and owner of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~danish-loco-mentors|Danish LoCo Mentors]]</nowiki>, June 22nd 2011
* Persistent activity on forum
----
==== Guides ====
<nowiki>[[FlemmingChristensen-MyGuides| Detailed list]]</nowiki>
----
==== Translations ====
<nowiki>[[FlemmingChristensen-MyTranslations|Detailed list]]</nowiki>
------
== Support for membership ==
------
=== Søren Bredlund Caspersen ===
SørenBredlundCaspersen (Ubuntu member): Flemming has be an active member of our community for years, in particular he has done great work on our forum as a moderator.
Lately he has also taken over the job as LoCo contact and has taken care of the re-approval process we are currently in. (Hopefully we will have been re-approved when someone actually reads this ;))

In short, Flemming has done great work in the Danish LoCo team, and I full support his Ubuntu membership.

=== Christian Arvai ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ChristianArvai|christian.arvai]]</nowiki> : Flemming joined the Danish Team Forum on April 26th 2008 -  just 1 h. 25 m. after I had joined, and we soon discovered how friendly and dedicated he is. In December 2008 we were looking for a new moderator in forum, we all agreed that Flemming was the man for the job, and fortunately he accepted.
So I have been on the moderator team with Flemming since Dec. 2008, and I have enjoyed every minute of it. He is kind, calm, energetic and always polite, both on the forum, when he works as moderator, and when I have private talks to him.
Besides the normal activities on the forum (support ect.), I also work closely with Flemming when we are making guides, and when trying to develop small diagnostic tools for use in the support. 
And, as sbc (Søren Bredlund Caspersen) already has mentioned, he also works as our LoCo contact, and has done a great job with the re-approval process.

So I can only mention positive things about Flemming, and I full support his Ubuntu membership. 
