{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Table of contents''' <<BR>>
|}
{{http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/49285cd0bd273264ce981119a6163f2e}}
------
== $ whoami -vv ==
------
=== Biography ===
I was born on April 5th 1948 in Western Jutland, Denmark, the 3rd child of a country doctor who was active in the Danish resistance movement against the German nazi occupation. So ideals of freedom and taking responsibility were implanted in me from early childhood. Maybe that is also one of the reasons why I greatly value the Catalan tenacity and love of independence, and the Cretan passion for freedom, and the famous ''philoxenia'' of the Cretans - charity towards strangers, values not unknown to Ubuntu.

Graduated from college at Struer Statsgymnasium in modern languages in 1967, with subsequent military education in Russian 1967-1969.

Studies at the University of Copenhagen 1969 et seq. in sociology, ethnology, japanese. 1983 B.A. in esquimology from U. of C.

My main field was lingustics, and apart from the Scandinavian languages I am competent in English, German and Italian, fair to middling in French and Castilian. I am able to read and understand Latin, Catalan, Russian, Old Slavonic, Koine Greek, and to some degree Czech and modern Greek. Sadly to say Japanese and Inuktitut are now almost forgotten. As of February 2010 I have taken up the study of Old Irish (sad to tell ''very'' small steps!), and making progress in Gaidhlig as of 2014.

Intensive studies in the life and works of Danish polar pioneer Peter Freuchen, and main actor in the festivities on the occasion of the centenary of his birth in 1986.

Active in the planning of the University Centre of Roskilde in 1970 and subsequently tutor at RUC until 1975.

Left the university in 1975 and worked for the Danish Railways 1975-1986, for the last 6 years as a stationmaster at Frederiksberg.

In the years 1970-1979 active in the socialist movement. And from 1979 a dedicated follower of Japanese and Chinese martial arts: '' kendo, iaido, ninjutsu, taijiquan, baguazhang '' with accompanying studies i buddhism and daoism. From 1997 I have mainly concentrated on the Sun Lutang tradition in ''taijiquan'' and ''baguazhang''.

From the late 1980'es I have been a consultant for the martial arts community <nowiki>[[http://forsvardig.dk|Amanogawa]]</nowiki> in Vejle.

From 1968 to 1975 I was married to Elisabeth Møller Jensen, former leader of <nowiki>[[http://www.kvinfo.dk| KVINFO]]</nowiki>. Our children are Tomas, who is now an M.D. specializing in endocrinology, and Line, a communications expert, who have given us altogether 7 wonderful grandchildren.

In 1986 I married Gitte Vemmelund with whom I have further 3 children Thea (studying psychology), Tue (studying at law school at University of Copenhagen), and Simon (just now - 2014 - on the Grand Tour), without whom the world would have been a poorer place. As of March 2013 Thea and her husband have given us our first shared grandchild.

In 1986 my wife and I moved from Copenhagen to the provincial town of Vejle in Jutland, where I worked as a janitor, until I found my final calling in 1997 as a verger at the churches of Hover and Grejsdal, a vocation that calls for empathy and integrity. Retired April 2013.

Twice a year I dedicate a weekend to participating in the <nowiki>[[ http:--ortodoks-korsang.dk-index.html|orthodox christian liturgical chanting seminars lead by Irina Gerassimez]]</nowiki>. Cofounder September 2012 of a <nowiki>[[[http:--www.nutidig-kristen-spiritualitet.dk|Work group on Christian spirituality ]]</nowiki>. 

I am greatly inspired by Franciscan and Ignatian spirituality, and enjoy studying the works of the Greek Fathers, and other spiritual classics. Favourite theologians: St. John the Theologian, Ignatius de Loyola, Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, Feofan Zatvornik, Karl Rahner and Thomas Keating.
-----
=== Favourite organizations ===
Other than Ubuntu related organizations, I am a member of:
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.nutidig-kristen-spiritualitet.dk|Society for Contemporary Christian Spirituality]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[ http:--www.sayers.org.uk-|The Dorothy L. Sayers Society]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://vigata.org/ |Andrea Camilleri Fan Club (suciu di rispettu)]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk |Foreningen af Danske Ubuntubrugere]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://www.dansk-kennel-klub.dk/Forside |Dansk Kennelklub]]</nowiki>
-----
=== Lectures ===
* Multimedia presentations using and discreetly propagating Ubuntu and open source:
*** regional conference on diaconal work, February 2007
*** conference on renewal of parish activities, January 2008
*** diocesan open days: know your parish, May 2008
*** elections for the parish council, October 2008
* And of course also illustrations for my <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Alment/foredrag.php|lectures on:]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Frans/spillemand.php|St. Francis of Assisi]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Poesi/dante.php|Dante and his Comedy]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Frans/slid.php|Early franciscans in Mongolia and China]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Patres/peter_paulus.php|St. Peter and St. Paul at Rome]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Patres/johannes.php|St. John the Apostle and his Gospel]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Poesi/gaudi.php|Antoni Gaudí and la Sagrada Familia]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/DLS/DDD.php|Dorothy L. Sayers: writer and theologian]]</nowiki>
*** Waters of Chaos and Fabled Seafarers
*** Northernmost of Men: Peter Freuchen at Thule
*** Culture, Combat and Convents in Crete
*** <nowiki>[[http://stromata.dk/Vejvisere/bonhoeffer.php|Each new day is a wonder - Life and theology of Dietrich Bonhoeffer]]</nowiki>
*** What is modern pilgrimage?
*** The Medieval and Modern Church of the Parish of Hover
*** Doorman by the grace of God (vergers in literature and history)
*** Franciscan Tuscany and Umbria (Oct. 2011)
*** Heaven down to earth - inspirations of orthodox eastern Christianity (Nov. 2011)
*** The fascination of treason (Nov. 2012)
*** Three Generations Walking the Camino (Nov. 2014)
-----
=== Contributions to Ubuntu ===
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FlemmingChristensen|Summary]]</nowiki>
-----
=== Websites ===
In connection with work I have created and still upholds the parish website <nowiki>[[http://www.hover-grejsdal-kirke.dk|for the churches of Hover and Grejsdal]]</nowiki>.

My private website is <nowiki>[[http://www.stromata.dk|stromata.dk]]</nowiki> named after the writings of Clement of Alexandria, 'stromata' or 'stromateis' - meaning approximately patchwork. The site contains a patchwork of important elements of my life: Peter Freuchen, Ubuntu and Archbishop Tutu, Kungfu, Dorothy L. Sayers, St. Francis of Assisi, Fathers of the Church, Mentors like Dietrich Bonhoeffer, C. S. Lewis and Georgios Kazantzakis, Poetry like that of Dante Alighieri in words and Antoni Gaudì in stone and concrete, Pilgrimage, and insights in life in general.

January 2013 launched a website dedicated to the life and works of <nowiki>[[http://teilhard.dk|Pierre Teilhard de Chardin]]</nowiki>.

And again 2013 a website dedicated to <nowiki>[[http://stilheden.net|contemplative traditions]]</nowiki>

Created the website, and acts as webmaster, for <nowiki>[[http://nutidig-kristen-spiritualitet.dk|Foreningen Nutidig kristen Spiritualitet]]</nowiki>
-----
=== Ubuntu and I ===
I first heard of Ubuntu through the activities of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, whose fight for freedom and humanity gave me new insights into what a political life ought to be. Not least in the Commission of Reconciliation.

So the idea of Ubuntu was known to me before I realized that it was also the basis of a unique computer operating system and a community based on ubuntu as defined and lived by Desmond Tutu.

What a joy it was to enter the world of ubuntu! In 2008 I switched completely to ubuntu on my pc - 3 days with Gutsy, and from then on all subsequent releases.

In the spring of 2008 I found help in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|ubuntuforums.org]]</nowiki> and decided to contribute with what help I could give to others on the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum|Danish ubuntu-forum]]</nowiki>.
-----
=== And now for something completely different ===
For relaxation count on me to reread Sherlock Holmes, Nero Wolfe, Lord Peter Wimsey, Homer, Dante, T. S. Eliot, Joseph Conrad, Tolkien, Jorge Luís Borges, or centuries old theological treaties, or watch a movie starring Michael Caine, Toshiro Mifune, Clint Eastwood or Anthony Hopkins, and last - not least - Monty Python. Or enjoying the music of Bach and Bowie, Clapton and Cohen. Or, roaming around the countryside with my Irish Glen of Imaal Terrier (Molly) and my wife. Or, preparing and sharing a good meal with family and friends, preferably something Mediterranean style.
