{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



==== Introduction to testing with Xubuntu ====

Working with the Xubuntu quality assurance <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-qa|team]]</nowiki> has three main aspects, testing, triaging and filing bugs. Like any piece of software, Xubuntu needs people to track bugs, test at static points and continually test the development version.

''Please note that many of the tasks mentioned below require you to have registered a Launchpad account, it will be assumed that you have, or intend to get, one.''

* Iso testing, including updating daily
* Exploratory Testing, including use of Development PPAs
* Static Testing, including Milestones, Daily Iso and Package Testing
* Filing bugs, including manual bug reports
* Triaging bugs and forwarding them upstream

The Xubuntu testing infrastructure is made up of three key parts:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-testers|Xubuntu Testers team]]</nowiki> on Launchpad, which you should join once you've started helping with testing
* <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/xubuntu-devel|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki> mailing list, where further information on new packages, known bugs and much more can be gathered and where discussion about critical bugs take place
* Testing trackers <nowiki>[[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com| Image tracker]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com|Package Tracker]]</nowiki>, with information on tests to run along with instructions how to run them

==== Using the trackers ====

While the QA trackers have all the necessary information on how to do testing, for a quick overview, here's what you need to do after adding yourself to the Xubuntu Testers page and team:

'''File bugs''' when you notice them while testing
'''Report the tests''' to the tracker along with the list of bugs you have found

* To start helping with our testing,''' download an iso'''; download links can be found in the QA tracker, along with <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage|zsync]]</nowiki> commands. Zsync will check that the checksum matches. If you, however, are downloading we suggest that you '''check the iso integrity''' against the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM|MD5 checksum]]</nowiki> found in the tracker
* If you are intending to test ''for some while'', rather than using links on the tracker to grab iso's, there are constant links for both of the current dailies at <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/daily-live/current/|Current build]]</nowiki>

Remember that '''testing doesn't help the developers unless the tests are reported'''!

-----

==== Exploratory Testing ====

In addition to testing the isos and software with predefined testing actions (static testing), community members can take part in exploratory testing as well.

* In essence, exploratory testing means running the development release and doing your daily tasks with the system and finally, '''filing bugs''' when you find them. This allows Xubuntu to get a much larger spread of testing than is possible with predefined tests.

* A useful way to deal with this is <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot|dual]]</nowiki> (or multiple) boots. Where you can ensure you are able to access at all times a working version. In this way you can do as much work in the development release as is practical - all the while watching for bugs and regressions in the development release.

* Issues which the development team are keen to address include, in addition to normally reported issues, usability bugs, missing icons, inconsistent functionality.

===== Development PPAs =====

We have 3 PPAs which we use regularly to test packages. These are:
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~shimmerproject/+archive/ubuntu/daily|Shimmer Themes]]</nowiki> for daily builds of the Shimmer Project's projects
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ubuntu/xubuntu-staging|Xubuntu Staging ]]</nowiki> for packages and package versions that are being prepared for inclusion in Xubuntu
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~xubuntu-dev/+archive/ubuntu/ppa|Xubuntu daily builds]]</nowiki> for daily Git and Bzr builds for packages related to Xubuntu and/or Xfce.

Installing these three PPAs means that you will be using and testing packages that developers are currently working with, this means that regressions found by you will not be present once they are released.

===== PPA Purging =====

At times it is useful to remove a PPA. Using ppa-purge causes apt to disable a PPA source list and then change affected packages back to the default versions. 

Run ''sudo apt-get install ppa-purge''

Run ''sudo ppa-purge ppa:'''ppaname''' ''

Reporting bugs with PPAs can be problematic, please see further information on reporting bugs with PPAs enabled below.

-----

==== Static Testing ====

Testing the development versions of Xubuntu and packages in it helps keep up the every day quality. If you have spare hardware resources or are able to run a virtualized testing environment, you can help.

* Check the devel mailing list close to the start of the cycle, where the decision as to which milestones we will participate in will be discussed.

* While milestone testing is in progress, please watch for rebuilds. These will take place either when ''we'' have reason to rebuild, eg following a bug fix landing, or more likely when the '''Ubuntu Release Team''' have cause to do so.

===== Milestone Testing =====

* Stand alone ISO testing for milestones is useful in the 2 days before the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/ISO/Milestones|release]]</nowiki>. To see how these milestones are scheduled, refer to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReleaseSchedule|Ubuntu release schedule]]</nowiki>.

* Live Session: Boot with the ISO and ensure that basic application testing (open, close, saving etc.) passes
 
* Installation tests require pass. These test ''only'' the installation.

===== Daily Iso Testing =====

The importance of daily iso testing lies in the main in knowing that boot or installation regressions haven't appeared. Where it appears they have, if you are able to boot with a different flavours iso, this can help prove a global or local to Xubuntu issue. 

If unsure contact the Xubuntu team, preferably on <nowiki>[[http://tracker.xubuntu.org/#tab-irc|IRC]]</nowiki>.

* Live Session: Boot with the iso and ensure that basic application testing (open, close, saving etc.) passes.
* Installation tests required pass. These test ''only'' the installation.

===== Package Testing =====

For releases where we are making use of the <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.ubuntu.com/|Package Tracker]]</nowiki>, calls for package testing will be made to the xubuntu-devel mailing list as required. This could be a call from QA or Developers.

* A schedule of planned tests is mailed to the Xubuntu Devel mailing list close to the cycle start
* The schedule is shown on the <nowiki>[[https://trello.com/b/IV66JCHl/xubuntu-qa|QA Trello page]]</nowiki>
* Reminders of upcoming package test requirements are mailed to the Xubuntu devel mailing list as required
* Specific developer testing requirement are mailed as they are available, often these packages will be those found on one of our PPAs

-----

==== Bug tagging ====

* Bug tagging. Please ensure that while you are reporting bugs during a development cycle, that you add specific tags to any automatically generated ones. This allows us to search Launchpad for bugs affecting us during a cycle.
* For general bugs during a cycle please use '''''xubuntu-exp ''cyclename'' '''
* For bugs found with versions supplied by PPA please use '''''xubuntu-exp ''cyclename'' ppa'''.

For example a bug found during the wily cycle in a PPA would have '''xubuntu-exp wily ppa''' as it's tag.
In addition to the links mentioned below, the Ubuntu wiki has some good pages on bugs, including <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HelpingWithBugs|Helping with bugs]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Responses|Standard responses]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingProcedures|How to debug bugs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/CommonTasks|Common tasks]]</nowiki>.

After you've filed a bug report, be ready to cooperate with developers and triagers to give them more information if needed to help them debug and fix the issue.

Please note that feature request and development ideas do not count as bugs, and thus shouldn't be filed as bugs.

-----

==== Apport configuration file ====

At some point during the cycle, Canonical enables reporting with apport. It can be useful to pre-empt this and manually edit the file concerned. In addition it can sometimes help to include crashes.

* Run ''pkexec mousepad /etc/apport/crashdb.conf''
* Locate the line which includes ''' 'problem_types': ['Bug', 'Package']'''
* Add a # to the beginning of the line ''' #'problem_types': ['Bug', 'Package']'''
* Save the file

To include Crashes

* Run ''pkexec mousepad /etc/apport/crashdb.conf''
* Locate the line which includes ''' 'problem_types': ['Bug', 'Package']'''
* Add a # to the beginning of the line ''' #'problem_types': ['Bug', 'Crash' 'Package']'''
* Save the file

-----

==== Filing bugs ====

===== Normal bug reporting =====
Anybody using Xubuntu can file (or in other words, report) bugs, even with no experience at all. Filing bugs is important because in some cases, bugs can go unnoticed unless an end user files them.

Before submitting a bug, you should look at the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs||existing bug reports]]</nowiki> and release notes to verify the bug hasn't been reported already. If the bug has not already been reported, you should ''file a new bug report''. It is sensible to read through the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs|bug reporting guidelines]]</nowiki> before filing your first bug.

In the most situations, it is easiest to file a bug by opening a new Terminal and type '''ubuntu-bug ''package-name''''', where package-name is the package you want to file bug against. If you don't know which package you should file the bug against, refer to the instructions on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/FindRightPackage|finding the right package]]</nowiki>. When filing the bug, it is better to have too much than too little information.

===== Reporting bugs with PPAs =====
When you encounter a bug with a package from a PPA, you'll need to file the bug report manually. Once you've got the offending package name, go to <nowiki>[[http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/PACKAGENAME/+filebug|http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/PACKAGENAME/+filebug]]</nowiki>.

Crash logs related to the package can be found in /var/crash/. This directory requires superuser (sudo) permissions to view and extract the contents. These logs can be particularly valuable to include in your bug report, but '''be sure to review them''' as they may contain sensitive or personally identifiable material.

Be sure to follow the above general guidelines, and also add the '''ppa''' tag so it is clear to developers that this is an unsupported package.

-----

==== Triaging bugs ====

Triaging bugs means to get bug reports in a state where they are useful for developers by making sure bug reports have useful titles, descriptions, appropriate logs and more. To get started, read the page on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/HowToTriage|How to triage bugs]]</nowiki> in the Ubuntu wiki.

After you have made yourself familiar with the aspects of triaging bugs, you can start triaging <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~xubuntu-bugs/+packagebugs|Xubuntu bugs]]</nowiki>. Please note that the bug status and importance can be only be changed by members of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuBugControl|Ubuntu Bug Control team]]</nowiki> - in the beginning, you will need to report triaged bugs for the team in #ubuntu-bugs on Freenode. After you have demonstrated your ability to triage bugs, you will gain more responsibilities by the Bug Control team.

As you gain experience on triaging Xubuntu bugs, you may want to take a look at <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=xubuntu&amp;orderby=-datecreated&amp;field.status%3Alist=NEW&amp;assignee_option=any&amp;field.assignee=&amp;field.bug_reporter=&amp;field.bug_supervisor=&amp;field.bug_commenter=&amp;field.subscriber=&amp;field.component-empty-marker=1&amp;field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&amp;field.omit_dupes.used=&amp;field.omit_dupes=on&amp;field.has_patch.used=&amp;field.has_cve.used=&amp;field.tag=&amp;field.tags_combinator=ANY&amp;field.has_no_package.used=&amp;search=Search&amp;start=0|new bugs that mention Xubuntu]]</nowiki>. Triaging new bugs is recommended for those who are more familiar with both triaging and Xubuntu generally, since not all of the new bugs mentioning Xubuntu are ''actually'' Xubuntu bugs. 

===== Forwarding bugs upstream =====

When bugs are forwarded upstream, all users of the relevant software will benefit from the debugging, triaging and patching work carried out by bug triagers and developers.

Once it has been determined that a bug is not caused by a change in Xubuntu, bugs can be forwarded to their respective upstream projects to be reviewed. For example, all appropriate Xfce bugs should be filed in the <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.xfce.org/|Xfce bug tracker]]</nowiki>. In addition, to track the status of the bug in Ubuntu, the bug in Launchpad should be linked with the upstream bug.

The Ubuntu wiki has an extensive page on  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Upstream| bugs upstream]]</nowiki> along with instructions on how to report bugs in the upstream bug trackers. Detailed information on the way to add an upstream bug to Launchpad can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/Watches|Bugs/Watches]]</nowiki> page on the Ubuntu wiki.
