{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
* ** itnet7 changes topic to "Welcome to the Ubuntu Florida Local Community IRC Chat || http://www.ubuntu-fl.org || Next Team Meeting: GOING ON NOW!! 8 pm EDT || If you would like to get involved with upcoming events see: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/GetInvolved"
* ** ChanServ sets mode: -o itnet7
<itnet7> hello everyone ;-)
<crashsystems> greetings
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings agenda is small tonight
<Lupine> howdy
<itnet7> we can wait a couple of minutes, but lets do a show of hands :-)
<jamesrfla> Hey
<mhall119> present
* itnet7 is here
* Chorca is here, for the first time evars
<itnet7> Hey there Chorca!! Welcome Aboard!
* crashsystems is really just a bot pretending to be crashsystems.
<jamesrfla> I am here
<maxolasersquad> Here (kinda)
<maxolasersquad> I'm helping my daughter do her homework.
<itnet7> Nice! good Dad!
<Chorca> hehe
<itnet7> Okay well not much on the agenda
<crashsystems> lol
<itnet7> I had created a while back a Linked-In Group
<mhall119> link?
<itnet7> I can get it for you... hold one sec
<itnet7> http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=753617
<jamesrfla> sorry back
<maxolasersquad> Joined.
<mhall119> joined
<itnet7> oh cool
<dantalizing> morning
<mhall119> the mod sure is slow in accepting....
<mhall119> must have better things to do
<itnet7> I just approved you
<mhall119> oh, cool
<itnet7> I have temporarily made it to where one of us that is in the channel all the time has to kind of know who you are before adding you
<itnet7> if you know what I mena
<itnet7> Hey there dcabot
<mhall119> like some kind of elite secret society, right?
<maxolasersquad> Is a sacrifice involved?
<dantalizing> l33t
<crashsystems> Ubuntu Illuminati
<dcabot> Did I interrupt?
<itnet7> the linked-in group will be a place that we can share Ideas and potentially recruit some team members
<itnet7> dcabot, we kind of just started welcome aboard
<itnet7> sort of a secret society :-)
<mhall119> crashsystems can be our official cryptographer
<crashsystems> lol
<itnet7> I know that everyone is busy, in the linked-in group there are opportunities for people to ask questions and post topics, feel free to comment and answer things Really good stuff we'll add to the blog
<maxolasersquad> Can I knock of people that piss us off?
<maxolasersquad> knock off
<itnet7> +1 mhall119
<mhall119> maxolasersquad: only once you reach level 10
<itnet7> In the linked-in group?
<crashsystems> my question is, is it _only_ useful for finding employment opportunities?
<mhall119> itnet7: I think he meant in real life
<itnet7> OH gotcha secret society/mobsters :-)
<maxolasersquad> That may take awhile :(
<mhall119> we need our own 4chan board, so FoxNews will talk about us
<itnet7> Linked in can be used for much more
<itnet7> but no one has to join it's only out there in case you want to
<crashsystems> If I put my email address in there, is it publicly visible?
<itnet7> I am not sure I can find out and let you know
<crashsystems> ok
<jamesrfla> foxnews was talking about us?
<mhall119> if not, we can all publicize it other places for you
<maxolasersquad> It is definitely viewable by people you link with.
<mhall119> jamesrfla: no, about 4chan, thinks they're some super-hacker cult
<jamesrfla> ah I see
<maxolasersquad> It is not viewable by anyone that you aren't linked with.
<crashsystems> cool
<itnet7> I am just not sure about people searching through groupmembers seeing addresses of people that aren't linked
<itnet7> Oh...
<itnet7> thanks maxo
<dantalizing> ?
<mhall119> lies
<itnet7> just approved you too maxo
<mhall119> is zoopster here today?
<itnet7> I haven't seen him all day
<dantalizing> he was alive earlier
<dantalizing> is that it?
<mhall119> hmm, is there any way to associate our IRC nick with our LinkedIn name on the group? I don't know who half those people are
<itnet7> Yeah, for the first topic
<itnet7> let me look while Dan begins his topic
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties
<dantalizing> lotsa release parties
<mhall119> party!
<dantalizing> was also hoping zoopster would be around
<crashsystems> France may have had the biggest release party, but we will have the most parties!
<dantalizing> main thing is, we still need help in miami
<mhall119> also the coolest
<dantalizing> and if you dont live where we're having a party, please, start your own
<zoopster> huh?
<mhall119> we need a location for Tampa too
<zoopster> I'm around
<itnet7> cool!
<dantalizing> itnet7: do you have details for melbourne yet?
<mhall119> zoopster: Tampa release party, we still going to do one?
<itnet7> No
<zoopster> yes...on the calendar 2 May
<zoopster> working on a venue...suggestions?
<dantalizing> j chris?
<dantalizing> what kind of thing are you planning?
<zoopster> for a morning/mid-day thing...yes...they close at 2p
<mhall119> zoopster: how about a store?
<zoopster> was thinking to have a late afternoon...dinner drinks thing
<zoopster> store?
<zoopster> as in?
<dantalizing> cool
<mhall119> I don't think they'd go for it, but having it in the middle of a Best Buy would get a lot of attention
<dantalizing> i can leave tallahassee and head to tampa :)
<mhall119> food and drink would be out, obviously
<zoopster> that's a 4 hr drive dantalizing
<mhall119> maybe a smaller computer shop would be willing though
<dantalizing> mortal
<zoopster> if we did a best buy thing...I'd want it on the night of the 23rd
<itnet7> May 2nd was the only available day at the Library I was going to reserve a room
<Chorca> aww no time data for O-town yet
<itnet7> I don't want to hold it the same day as two others
<zoopster> mhall119: that's what I was thinking...I have not been able to dig into a local linux shop, yet
<dantalizing> itnet7: right
<dantalizing> Chorca: coming soon!
<mhall119> zoopster: doesn't have to be a linux shop
<Chorca> hehe
<Chorca> i'm in waterford lakes, so anything in o-town
<zoopster> mhall119: well..not going to go to citrus park computers...they can't even spell open source or linux
<mhall119> any mom and pop computer store would probably love having their name and address on flyers advertising a software release party
<Chorca> if not i can go to melbourne lol
<dantalizing> Chorca: or both :)
<Chorca> haha tru
<itnet7> Chorca, that would Rock!
<mhall119> zoopster: wherever it is, can you bring that projector you had at FLS?
<zoopster> mhall119: happy to...
<dantalizing> mhall119: will be presenting?
<mhall119> I can
<mhall119> I was hoping to make the party double as a build day, but that'll depend on the venue
<maxolasersquad> We've got a local Linux friendly shop, but it would be too small for a party.
<dantalizing> maxolasersquad: have you notified the tallahassee lug?
<dantalizing> i tried to stir up something in pensacola, but so far they're pretty stiff
<maxolasersquad> No. I didn't see any contact information on their website.
<maxolasersquad> My brother has an Ubuntu user that is in the LUG there. I'll see if I can get him to peer-pressure him.
<zoopster> mhall119: I have the same desire
<itnet7> I set a tentative date for May 9th
<itnet7> for Melbourne/Rockledge
<dantalizing> itnet7: brb
<dantalizing> things i was hoping to get: details, more cities
<Chorca> omg jaunty on the mini9 is pretty hot
<itnet7> Chorca everything working for ya?
<crashsystems> linkedin membership pending approval.
<Chorca> pretty much. I noticed that someone got the new notifications to show up, although it's not running under compiz cause aparrantly the launcher hates it
<jamesrfla> sorry i haven't been paying attention in here a meeting ran late.
<dantalizing> back
<dantalizing> lots of new people tonight
<mhall119> bbl, going to pick up chinese takeout
<dantalizing> and some rare attendees
<itnet7> crashsystems, approved :-)
<Chorca> i'd been meaning to jump into one of these, just kept forgetting. :P
<dantalizing> morning _Cloud_ dcabot homer maxolasersquad
<itnet7> Chorca, are you on the mailing list?
<zoopster> what linkedin group?
<mhall119> zoopster: if you can find a computer shop that's not already looking at Linux, maybe a release party will convince them to run it on some demo setups
<itnet7> I created a Florida Team Linked-in Group
<Chorca> yeah
<zoopster> mhall119: good idea...I know of a few that may be interested who I have worked with in the past...might be a good opp
<itnet7> http://www.linkedin.com/groups?home=&gid=753617&trk=anet_ug_hm
<zoopster> thank you itnet7
<dantalizing> oops
<dantalizing> morning mack_dbFL
<zoopster> cool...membership pending
<zoopster> thanks
<zoopster> so...Tampa team poll - 2 May? or 23 April?
<dantalizing> evening
<dantalizing> :)
<mhall119> your group is growing fast itnet7
<itnet7> approved zoopster :-)
<Epidemic> Anyone dealing with an Atheros wireless adapter for your laptop? Mine sometimes connects to my wireless and sometimes it doesn't.... :-/
<itnet7> woohoo!
<zoopster> Epidemic: I use atheros on my stinkpad - never had a problem
<Epidemic> I'm using WPA with tkip/aes and it just is finicky...
<dantalizing> so nobody has a preference for may 2 or april 23?
<Epidemic> I have a symbol in the wireless network key but that shouldn't change anything...
<zoopster> what version? and what kernel?
<crashsystems> Epidemic I recently had connection problems with a RalLink card, due to the TKIP/AES combo. Go straight AES and see how that works.
<zoopster> I had severe problems with 8.10 and a earlier kernel
<Epidemic> I changed the AP to only use AES but same issue
<zoopster> the latest kernel and wireless parts fixed it
<Epidemic> 2.6.27-11-generic
<Epidemic> how do I check my versions on wireless?
<zoopster> that's what I have now
<Epidemic> NetworkManager Applet 0.7.0?
<itnet7> zoopster what time would you do it May 2nd and how far away is tallahasse?
<dcabot> I can help, but I'm not running it.
<Epidemic> As far as the package manager says everything is up to date :-/
<zoopster> itnet7: I'd like to do a late afternoon early evening thing...4 hr drive tpa/tlh
<dcabot> I'm right there.
<dantalizing> dcabot: where?
<maxolasersquad> itnet7: Where are you?
<itnet7> I am in Melbourne
<dcabot> We're talking TPA, no?
<dantalizing> dcabot: yes
<zoopster> yes dcabot
<dcabot> Am I the only near tampa?
<itnet7> Can you do May 9th Zoopster?
<zoopster> dcabot: no...quite a few of us are in and around tampa
<itnet7> I can change my date
<maxolasersquad> That would be quite a drive.
<itnet7> I would like to try and go to tallahassee and I don't want to miss yours
<zoopster> I could...figured that would be too late and why I was asking about the release night
<itnet7> Oh... gotcha
<maxolasersquad> 324 miles according to Google Maps.
<maxolasersquad> That would be amazing if you could make it.
<zoopster> Epidemic: for the life of me I cannot remember the name of the package
<dcabot> madwifi
<itnet7> To where tallahassee
<maxolasersquad> Yes
<dantalizing> itnet7: its 2 hrs from gainesville
<itnet7> OMG
<itnet7> My sense of direction seriously stinks
<zoopster> no, dcabot I don't use madwifi...using ath9k now, but the kernel bits are included in a meta package and I don't remember the name
<maxolasersquad> It would probably take five hours.
<maxolasersquad> It is four hours from Orlando.
<dantalizing> just be glad there is nothing in pensacola yet :)
<Epidemic> zoopster: package?
<dantalizing> pensacola = 5 hrs from tlh
<maxolasersquad> brb
<itnet7> I would probably have to come up to gainesville and hitch a ride if a certain person is going to tlh
<dantalizing> or is it 5 hrs from gainesville? i forget
<zoopster> dantalizing: from gnv
<dantalizing> ah
<dantalizing> thx zoopster
<zoopster> dantalizing: you can do tlh-pns in 3
<dantalizing> then mobile in 45 more mins!
<zoopster> yep
<zoopster> lived there for my first 25 years (Pns that is)
<dantalizing> itnet7: are you up for the SE Jaunty Release Party Caravan?
<zoopster> all of my fam lives there
<itnet7> lol
<dantalizing> we got hax (our puppy) from freeport
<dantalizing> so this is my plan.. release party in gainesvile, steal a car, release party in tlh early, release party in pns late.. overnight in mobile
<maxolasersquad> ~2.5 hours from gville
<dantalizing> ditch the car, release party in mobile, bus to biloxi, release party in biloxi
<itnet7> you seriously rock dan if you pull that off!
<dantalizing> bus to new orleans, release party, fly to tpa
<itnet7> ROFL
<dantalizing> release party
<itnet7> You are cracking me up
<jamesrfla> ?
<dantalizing> zoopster gives us a ride back to gainesville
<maxolasersquad> I'll put full coverage on my van and then you can grab it.
<dantalizing> deal
<maxolasersquad> Insurance should give me $50 for it.
<itnet7> teehee
<dantalizing> meh
<crashsystems> I know of no one who uses linkedin :(
<dantalizing> they'll find it behind a best buy in mobile
<itnet7> Well you know of at least 9 people they are all on the Florida Team
<crashsystems> true
<dcabot> Did you punch in all your old jobs?
<crashsystems> punch?
<dcabot> enter...
<dcabot> Back from the punch card days...
<crashsystems> I'll add only things I think relevant to the computer/tech field (for now at least).
<Epidemic> zoopster: if you figure it out message me if you don't mind :)
<zoopster> Epidemic: linux backports...that's what I used to get the latest driver
<zoopster> and that fixed my problems completely
<dcabot> I'll match you up with people from your old jobs.
<dcabot> It'll
<zoopster> interestingly enough, Epidemic, I don't show it installed right now...but I did have problems with wpa and that fixed it (latest kernel/latest driver) using backports
<dcabot> Is that it with the planning?
<zoopster> crashsystems: you know of me...I use linkedin
<crashsystems> woot! I know peoplez!
<itnet7> omg off topic... buy.com has/had 16 Gb microsd cards for 44.99
<itnet7> http://www.buy.com/prod/sandisk-16gb-microsdhc-card/q/loc/101/209874873.html
<dantalizing> dcabot: for now, i think
<dantalizing> we done itnet7?
<itnet7> Sure, sounds good to me
<dantalizing> lol
<Chorca> whats rediculous about the mini 9 though.. you can't get SSds for them right now, noone has them!
<dcabot> I missed it for the tampa date. What was it again?
<dantalizing> dcabot: its still up in the air
<dantalizing> may 2 or april 23
<Epidemic> inet7: there's a 32gb for $54
<mhall119> I'd prefer a weekend evening if we can
<mhall119> even the 24th
<itnet7> 32 Gb microsd?
<itnet7> I am not sure if a g1 can see more than 16 atm
<Epidemic> err, thought it was flash, nvm
<itnet7> good deal though!
<crashsystems> has the meeting ended, or have we just gotten way off topic?
<itnet7> does anyone else have anything to bring up?
<itnet7> if not I would consider it over :-)
* zoopster is patiently waiting for the next tmobile android phone
<zoopster> nothing from me
* itnet7 tried to wait
<maxolasersquad> TMobile has no service here
<itnet7> Ok well if no one has nothing now we can consider it ended....
<itnet7> I would like to make one suggestion
<maxolasersquad> Waiting on another carrier.
<Epidemic> zoopster: so, linux-backport-modules-mykernelversion?
<zoopster> maxolasersquad: I hate to say it...but no one wants tlh...it was tossed around like a hot potato for the longest time
<itnet7> all of you newer guys that come in the channel, if you have ideas or topics that you would like to discuss, please log into the wiki and add it to the Agenda subsection of the Florida Team meeting link
</pre>
