{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<itnet7> Okay! Meeting time!
<govatent> ok
<itnet7> pak33m dantalizing Lupine
* mhall119 wonders where roadmap is
<itnet7> zoopster ropetin igorgue jtatum chaynie|work dorgan
<itnet7> can everyone give a show of hands please
<mhall119> jtatum
<itnet7> o/
<mhall119> oh you got him
<Michelle_Qimo> I'm here
<mhall119> 0/
<dorgan> show of hands on what?
<mhall119> dorgan: that you're here and listening
<Lupine> o/
<itnet7> dorgan: we are starting the team meeting
<jledbetter> jtatum is afk
<dorgan> i am now here and listening
<dorgan> oh ok
<jledbetter> o/
<itnet7> thanks jledbetter !
<crashsystems> I'm quite possibly listening
<govatent> here
* govatent passes out drinks for the meeting
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings/#Agenda
<itnet7> [TOPIC] Florida LoCo Birthday Bash - -- mhall119 2009-11-02 21:10:47
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 is dealing with Kid Two at the moment
<itnet7> Ah!!!
<Michelle_Qimo> So...
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, wait, here he is
<mhall119> sorry
<mhall119> the time changes always make bedtimes worses
<mhall119> my typing suffers too
<itnet7> lol
<itnet7> You have the floor mhall119 !
<mhall119> okay, so I assume everybody knows about the birthday bash
<mhall119> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10712190/
<mhall119> there have been some different times posted in different places, so I just wanted to clarigy
<mhall119> clarify even
<mhall119> we plan on eating about 5pm
<mhall119> we're telling people to start arriving at about noon
<mhall119> to give us all lots of time for socializing before dinner
<mhall119> since I know some of you will have a long drive home after dinner
<itnet7> Welcome aboard nejode we are in a team meeting (just to let you know, and you are welcome to join in the discussion)
<mhall119> but really, you can some whenever you want
<mhall119> I know there are some people coming over early to help Michelle_Qimo bake goodies for the rest of us
<nejode> thanks...
<Michelle_Qimo> bring a side dish, if you can, and lawn chairs if you have them
<mhall119> we've got a few high-carb side dishes already in the works
<dorgan> :D
<mhall119> so any veggie dishes would be good
<mhall119> we have like 30 pounds of meat for the smoker
<mhall119> so don't worry about that
<mhall119> we'll be providing some sodas
<crashsystems> what is the optimal time of arrival?
<mhall119> alcoholic beverages are welcome, but we won't be providing any
<mhall119> (we blew out booze money on more meat)
<mhall119> crashsystems: any time between noon and 5pm is optimal
<mhall119> if you're going to be drinking alcohol, please be respectful, this is a family gathering, I don't want anyone drunk
<govatent> any idea on when you plan to wind things down?
* haykuro passes out
<mhall119> because we will draw funny faces on you with permanent marker
<itnet7> rofl haykuro !
<haykuro> ;)
<mhall119> govatent: sometime after dinner I would imagine
<crashsystems> and take pictures
<mhall119> finally, we have an extra room and an air mattress if someone needs to stay over night
<itnet7> mhall119: lol
<Michelle_Qimo> Everyone is welcome to stay 'til whenever. There's some crashing space available
<mhall119> or two someones, if you really like eachother
<dhillon-v10> lol
<jledbetter> woo hoo!
<mhall119> it's offered on a first come first served basis
<Lupine> snuggling?
<Michelle_Qimo> snuggling is always an option
<mhall119> Lupine: that's optional
<mhall119> spooning costs extra
<itnet7> Just so everyone knows over 57 people will potentially attend
<mhall119> if everyone who says they're coming actually comes
<crashsystems> if halls.OverNightGuests >= 2: crashsystems.print "I call floor"
<itnet7> Lupine: needs to be held, as he's all alone up in Mass.
<mhall119> crashsystems: we also have the couch
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: your space is held.
<crashsystems> that works too
<itnet7> lol crashsystems !
<Lupine> yeah...kinda sad...get lots of pictures for me, won't be leaving MA until late Sat night :(
<mhall119> which is only slightly more comfortable than the floor
<mhall119> Lupine: :(
<mhall119> I'll send itnet7 home with a care package for you
<Michelle_Qimo> Oh, and just to serve as a reminder - play nice everyone.
<Lupine> ty <3
<mhall119> no guarantees it'll survive until the following Monday
<itnet7> lol
<Michelle_Qimo> we've got at least two guests (our son included) that have high functioning autism. Mind your manners.
<itnet7> Oh, of course Michelle_Qimo
<Michelle_Qimo> :-)
<mhall119> also, just to let everyone know
<mhall119> we now have a black labrador
<mhall119> not just the two little dogs
<mhall119> but he will be in his kennel for the duration of the party
<itnet7> All I can think of when someone says labrador is Cheech and Chong
<dorgan> lol
<crashsystems> at least it is not a laberdoodle :P
<itnet7> [TOPIC]Ubuntu Learning Project -- mhall119 2009-11-03 18:06:12
<mhall119> okay, moving on
<Michelle_Qimo> moving on
<mhall119> I got to sit in on pleia2's session for Ubuntu Open Week today
* mhall119 should have been working
<mhall119> oh well
<itnet7> lol
<jledbetter> Great session, worth a little less work ;)
<dhillon-v10> mhall119, so how did it go
<mhall119> anyway, she's involved in a really neat project to get community instruction together for teaching people Ubuntu
<mhall119> the log of the session is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekKarmic/Learning
<mhall119> the project wiki is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/
<mhall119> they're wanting to get more contributions
<zoopster> I'm here \o/
<mhall119> I've already linked my hacklet from ubuntu-fl.org for doctormo to include
<itnet7> Hey there zoopster!!
<zoopster> hey
<Michelle_Qimo> Hey zoopster!
<mhall119> I also linked tiemonster's macro for OpenOffice.org
<mhall119> it would be nice if we could all contribute a little to helping them build up this project
<crashsystems> so this project is about having in-person training sessions?
<mhall119> there's a very low barrier to entry
<zoopster> hi Michelle_Qimo
<Michelle_Qimo> is there anything useful I can contribute?
<mhall119> crashsystems: it's making the course material, which will then be converted into HTML, IRC lessons (like for UOW), moodle courses, or printouts
<mhall119> Michelle_Qimo: yes
<mhall119> they need some outlines for what instructions are needed
<dhillon-v10> mhall119, can you list out some of the topics that we can do
<mhall119> some people have contributed ODF material that needs to be converted to asciidoc for them
<itnet7> They should also involve new contributors to kind of "beta" test new courses
<mhall119> even just giving them reference material to tutorials or instructions that you've written of found elsewhere
<itnet7> or new users
<itnet7> I meant
<mhall119> their IRC channel is #ubuntu-learning
<mhall119> you can also contribute by simply reviewing lessons others have posted for accuracy and clarity
<itnet7> Nice!
<mhall119> there's really a lot that anybody can do
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119, you know what my skillset is. Get me materials, and I'll review and edit.
<mhall119> I know some people in here (who aren't currently here) have held packaging lessons, those should be contributed
<mhall119> Michelle_Qimo: will do
<itnet7> and Lupine's bug triaging lesson!!
<itnet7> sweet!
<mhall119> pleia2 and doctormo are running the show, so if you want to know where you can help go chat with them
<mhall119> itnet7: yes!
<Lupine> yup, I'm checking out the wiki to see what I can offer
<mhall119> so, go /join #ubuntu-learning
<mhall119> read the logs from the talk (there are links at the bottom too)
<mhall119> and lets make this project really rock
<itnet7> cool!
<mhall119> if you know of any tutorials or instructions online, go ahead and link to them at the bottom of their wiki pages
* Michelle_Qimo adds another channel to lurk in to her list.
<mhall119> they've got it broken apart into sections
<mhall119> so pick whatever seems most suited, and add your link
<itnet7> [TOPIC] Talk about South Florida event - -- alanbir 2009-11-03 19:35:47
<itnet7> Oops
<mhall119> if you have some time, write a quick instruction on some topic that interests you, or some package that interests you
<itnet7> sorry, not trying to rush anyone
<mhall119> itnet7: it's okay, that's all I had
<itnet7> govatent: !
<govatent> yes
<itnet7> you're turn
<govatent> well ok
<itnet7> South Florida event!
<mhall119> watch out for splattering mud
<govatent> ok here's the deal
<itnet7> rofl
<govatent> I know i said i would have worked something out to host an event here, but between school and work i have not taken the time to do so yet.
<govatent> At this point, all i have is one location i can use for free. my school
<govatent> i got the ok from them , but i need to have a document deal to show what the event is and stuff
<mhall119> does it have wifi?
<govatent> yes.
<mhall119> do they allow food?
<govatent> wifi and more eth ports than you can count
<itnet7> mhall119: what is wifi?
<itnet7> :-P
<govatent> and yes food is not a problem
<govatent> it's our IT lab
<mhall119> itnet7: I dunno, some witch-craft stuff
<mhall119> govatent: win!
<itnet7> mhall119: lol
<govatent> my question is, how many would actually attend an event in south florida?
<mhall119> but I can't make it
<govatent> any takers?
<mhall119> ropetin
<mhall119> ?
<itnet7> I will be there as long as I'm in town... and I can usually bring two with me
<Lupine> o/
<itnet7> there's one
<mhall119> ebouza is from Miami, I know he can't make the birthday bash, maybe he can make a local release party
<itnet7> lol
<Lupine> :)
<govatent> yea i include him by default
<govatent> sat tends to be the best for people right?
<mhall119> zbrown: is also from down there
<itnet7> govatent: let's put up a poll on ubuntu-fl.org
<dorgan> i would try to make it down there
<dorgan> yes sat.
<mhall119> itnet7: +1
<mhall119> only -1 for me
<itnet7> govatent: Sat. would be awesom
<govatent> ok. I will do a pool and go from there.
<Michelle_Qimo> Would if we could, govatent.
<itnet7> e
<govatent> then that's it from me.
<govatent> ill try to focus and get it done and get back to you guys
<itnet7> govatent: I can also write you up something that you can give them, so they can know what we would be doing
<govatent> sounds good itnet7
<itnet7> Install Fest / BUG/Packaging Jam
<govatent> i need to sit down with my professor and found out exactly what they want
<itnet7> if there is time or if there isn't too much help needed
* Michelle_Qimo would come if mhall119 would arrange kid-care for the weekend...
<Michelle_Qimo> just sayin
<mhall119> we've spent most of our grandparent-time lately
<itnet7> do you know if some students from teh school would also attend?
<Lupine> please
<govatent> I will try and setup a poll with students this week
<govatent> i am sure i can get a nice local turn out from the IT degree students
<govatent> programmers and network majors
<mhall119> govatent: does your school have convocations?
<dhillon-v10> govatent, if its working with some college people then I will seriously think about coming to this event
<itnet7> see what happens to mhall119 when he goes back to school, using BIG words now!! getting me all confused
<govatent> i looked it up :P
<mhall119> lol
<govatent> yes, we quite often do it related events
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, dear.
<itnet7> nice!
<pak33m> hey all im here sorry to be late :)
<mhall119> govatent: would be cool if the meetup would count
<govatent> although my school is mostly windows users
<mhall119> govatent: for now
<govatent> :P
<ImitatingReality> im backk
<ImitatingReality> :D
<mhall119> pak33m!!!!
<govatent> Hi ImitatingReality
<itnet7> Hey there ImitatingReality !
<ImitatingReality> hi
<mhall119> ImitatingReality: Hai!
<pak33m> mhall119: hey there
<ImitatingReality> hai
<ImitatingReality> hey itnet7
<ImitatingReality> XD
<govatent> quite the welcoming comity for ImitatingReality
<sn9> herro
<mhall119> hey sn9
<ImitatingReality> hi sn9
<ImitatingReality> i know right govatent ?
<itnet7> mhall119: does meetup allow you to host multiple groups with separate memberships?
<itnet7> under the account we have?
<sn9> i have some kernel code to write now
<govatent> what happens now itnet7 ?
<itnet7> also we have to renew that soon, eh zoopster ?
<mhall119> itnet7: I don't know
<ImitatingReality> my cat is eating something on my floor
<mhall119> itnet7: ask zoopster, it's his account
<ImitatingReality> hmm
<dorgan> itnet7: no they dont
<mhall119> itnet7: we just need to get it working in ubuntu-fl.org
<itnet7> govatent: well it's kind of now an open table if anyone has anything to discuss
<Michelle_Qimo> sooooooooooo... this meeting over? Or not so much?
<govatent> is there anything else that needs to be talked about now?
<itnet7> mhall119: Ah!
<itnet7> cool
<govatent> i got the call to play with the droid...so yea :P
<itnet7> nice, !!
<mhall119> itnet7: I'm sure someone in here has the time to implement it
<govatent> may i leave then now?
* itnet7 jealous of govatent !!
<mhall119> have fun govatent
<govatent> ok guys sorry for taking off early
<itnet7> laters man!
<mhall119> we expect a full review posted by tomorrow morning
<Michelle_Qimo> photos, govatent, we want photos
<Michelle_Qimo> :-)
<govatent> if u will be online in an hour or so ill have pictures
<crashsystems> video
<itnet7> oh
<mhall119> sample products
<Michelle_Qimo> demanding!
<itnet7> govatent: aske if they are planning to really lock down the phone in the usual verizon manner
<govatent> see ya guya i am off to droid world :)
<mhall119> itnet7: now that's a silly question
<govatent> sure thing itnet7
<Michelle_Qimo> have fun! so long, see ya, buh-bye
<itnet7> thanks!
<govatent> ill be on irc from my friends house
<itnet7> nice!
<mhall119> get irc on the droid
<govatent> lol see ya
<dhillon-v10> bye
<itnet7> mhall119: silly because it goes without saying they will, or silly because it's an android?
<ImitatingReality> ooh i wanna get that new droid phone
<ImitatingReality> its so cool
<pak33m> was that it for the meeting?
* crashsystems 's G1 is feeling old
<mhall119> itnet7: because it goes without saying
<ImitatingReality> bye govatent
<mhall119> pak33m: yu
<itnet7> pak33m: basically I guess yes
</pre>
