{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
20:00 < itnet7> Okay!!!
20:00 < itnet7> Show of hands! 
20:00  itnet7 here
20:00  reya276 here
20:00 < dhillon-v10> here
20:00 < itnet7> or o/
20:00 < chunkxzor> im here
20:00  Michelle_Qimo is present.
20:00  dhillon-v10 here
20:00 < itnet7> Nice chunkxzor !!
20:01 < itnet7> Lupine dantalizing roadmap jamalta govatent crashsystems chaynie Catsceo zoopster roadmap pak33m meeting time!
20:01 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: you need a dinner bell, or something
20:01 < itnet7> LOL
20:01 < roadmap> I got called twice
20:01 < itnet7> oops
20:01 < itnet7> LOL
20:01 < roadmap> =(
20:01  mhall119 here
20:02 < Michelle_Qimo> roadmap: he really likes you
20:02 < roadmap> That or im in trouble
20:02 < roadmap> nothing goods from calling me twice
20:02 < roadmap> ive learned this
20:02 < roadmap> good comes ^
20:02 < mhall119> roadmap: you're double important
20:02 < Michelle_Qimo> rofl
20:02 < itnet7> how true
20:02 < roadmap> im the glue that holds this place together
20:02 < dhillon-v10> :)
20:02 < roadmap> I know
20:02 < roadmap> Im the ultra special one
20:02 < itnet7> mudsplatter
20:02 <pak33m> hey all im here but its going to be a bit
20:02 < itnet7> Oh, whew!!
20:02 < itnet7> he's not here
20:02 < mhall119> lol
20:02 < Michelle_Qimo> rofl
20:02 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->sydogg [n=sydogg@pool-173-78-64-158.tampfl.fios.verizon.net]
20:03 < roadmap> Im here but I may not type much :) I will give input as I deem necessary. Or if mudsplatter shows up.
20:03 <pak33m> hoorya mudplater isnt here
20:03 < dhillon-v10> which could be a good thing
20:03 < itnet7> no problem pak33m !
20:03 < roadmap> Chinese internet regulations has been affecting him
20:03 < itnet7> lol
20:03 < itnet7> give me one second
20:04  mhall119 needs a refill, brb
20:04 < Michelle_Qimo> time's up
20:04 < Michelle_Qimo> :-)
20:04 < itnet7> lol
20:04 < itnet7> I was going to change the topic
20:04 < roadmap> oh
20:04 < itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
20:04 < roadmap> I have a few people interested in Ubuntu. If you guys have any 9.10 Karmic CDs (I imagine they aren't printed yet) let me know. I could order some myself from ShipIt but if we have a surplus I'm willing to take a few and hand out.
20:04 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: thanks for the link
20:04 < roadmap> I'd hand them a burned copy, but I think it'd look more professional with the other CDs
20:05 <*> mode[#ubuntu-us-fl] (+o itnet7) by ChanServ
20:05 < mhall119> roadmap: itnet7 is hoping to have some for the b-day party
20:05 < roadmap> Thats a month away though! Although I guess thats doable.
20:05 < mhall119> either way, you'll have to wait until 9.10 is actually released
20:05 < roadmap> I demoed Compiz to a few people today and they flipped.
20:05 < roadmap> mhall119, I'm aware =(
20:05 <*> itnet7 changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: Driver Automations update(very brief) -- dhillon-v10
20:06 < mhall119> roadmap: Compiz has that effect on people, use that power wisely
20:06 <@itnet7> go ahead dhillon-v10 
20:06 < dhillon-v10> alright guys I am not going to type too much, just real quick
20:06 < dhillon-v10> there's another project going on that's aiming to get most software on windows running on linux without the use of wine
20:06 < dhillon-v10> its called Unified Kernel Project
20:06 < dhillon-v10> link will follow :)
20:07 < roadmap> All of a sudden my interest piqued.
20:07 < roadmap> This sounds interesting
20:07 < dhillon-v10> one of their long term goals is also  to port drivers to linux and create an architecture independent stuff
20:07 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: is this already a project in LP?
20:07 < mhall119> it'll still need wine
20:07 < mhall119> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_Unified_Kernel
20:08 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> no not yet these people are working independently
20:08 < mhall119> it's just an implementation of the kernel32 API in the Linux kernel
20:08 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> its their intention to remove the wine usage, I talked with the admin so they told me this
20:08 < dhillon-v10> my basic point being the fact that it is possible to collaborate with them on this topic and work on it
20:08 < roadmap> Well, continue at least
20:09 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: no reason to, wine needs a kernel implementation, this doesn't have a Win32 API, they'll compliment eachother
20:09 < dhillon-v10> so far I haven't even been able to explain this project properly, so here's a mental map of what I want to get done with: http://sites.google.com/site/autoubuntudrivers/xmind
20:09 < dhillon-v10> I hope the you guys can see the picture properly :)
20:10 < dhillon-v10> so what do you guys say....
20:10 < roadmap> If i don't beat Magnet Mans stage in Megaman III I'm going to explode.
20:10 < roadmap> As for the picutre...
20:10 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> :)
20:10 < mhall119> MM3?  going old-school roadmap?
20:11 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: you know my reservations
20:11 < roadmap> mhall119, I'm pretty good at megaman. Wouldn't call myself an expert but I've been playing through all the retro megamans lately. Started with MM9 (WiiWare) and worked my way around 
20:11 < roadmap> dhillon-v10, This is a picture of your whole automagic kernel regression and driver automation right?
20:11 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> yah I understand you need some base line established, I am working on it
20:12 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> yes sir :)
20:12 < roadmap> Well, I'm under qualified for the job. Or scared of the project.
20:12 < roadmap> Or both.
20:12 < dhillon-v10> guys I am working on getting a pre-alpha version of this program up and ready soon, after that I would ask you guys to see in perspective what you guys think about it
20:13 < roadmap> Besides wouldn't it be fastest/easier to not rely on kernel regression and actually develop working drivers (or update working drivers) for a said piece of hardware
20:13 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: I will try and help you test it
20:13 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: you need to know if you can extract out information using a present driver
20:13 < Michelle_Qimo> I can't contribute jack, other than working on docs & planning, but if there's anything I can do, once it gets going, let me know.
20:13 <@itnet7> roadmap: has a point
20:13 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: if you don't have that, it won't work
20:13 < roadmap> Well isn't the idea to basically create something thats going to "code" its own driver?
20:13 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> a very good point, I have been looking for this answer from days now
20:13 < roadmap> The first thing would be developing some kind of interpreter so that a computer can understand what the heck its looking at?
20:13 < dhillon-v10> it seems plausible
20:14 < mhall119> roadmap: the point is that the hardware vendors don't give the necessary information to write working drivers
20:14 < mhall119> dhillon-v10 hopes to use software to automate the reverse engineering process
20:14 < roadmap> mhall119, I'm aware but hes talking about taking code from existing sources and creating a new driver that works best for a given selection of hardware
20:14 < roadmap> oh?
20:14 < roadmap> See that part I missed
20:14 < mhall119> roadmap: it's the part on the left
20:14 < roadmap> mhall119, we know I can't read
20:14 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> that's why we are going to use what's present, i don't want to reverse engineer, i just want to modify the coding of a driver file, that fits the new driver
20:14 < mhall119> or show up for events
20:14 < roadmap> There we go, see.
20:14 < roadmap> Thats what I was talking about mhall119 
20:15 < roadmap> He wants to basically take existing code and use his concept to have it construct a new driver
20:15 < roadmap> The biggest hurdle I see is making a computer aware of what its assembling. 
20:15 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: but your classifier and meta-data analysis is effectively doing the reverse engineering work
20:15 < dhillon-v10> this modification would be done by classifier, thanks roadmap that's very well put
20:15 < Michelle_Qimo> is the existing code even available?  (that sounds like a dumb question to ask)
20:15 < roadmap> A computer can't just open up a .cpp (or .c) file and be like "oh okay this code makes this device do this"
20:15 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> oh yah, I never though about that
20:15 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->czajkowski [n=cypher@freenode/staff/ubuntu.member.czajkowski]
20:15 < mhall119> Michelle_Qimo: mostly
20:16 < dhillon-v10> <Michelle_Qimo>  yes the kernel source
20:16 < czajkowski> aloha
20:16 < roadmap> Then here is my question dhillon-v10 
20:16 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> that's why the meta-data analysis
20:16 < roadmap> If we're creating new drivers from existing code, how is this going to work?
20:16 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: hey there czajkowski !!
20:16 < roadmap> I mean if there is driver code already available for a said device
20:16 < roadmap> why are we creating a new one for the same device?
20:16 < mhall119> hi czajkowski
20:16 <@itnet7> oops didn't mean the dhillon-v10 part
20:16 < roadmap> I'm not trying to be argumentive. So forgive me if I seem against this idea.
20:16 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> alright, so we are going to take an existing driver, try it out on a new driver
20:16 <@itnet7> was in mid-thought when trying to say hello
20:16 < czajkowski> itnet7: saw your tweet said i'd pop in and see whats ye do 
20:16 < roadmap> I'm just wanting a full understanding of whats going on.
20:16 < dhillon-v10> some parts of the previous one are going to work and others are not
20:17 < mhall119> roadmap: take one part genetic algorithm, two parts self-modifying code, bake it for 20 minutes at 350, and voila!
20:17 < roadmap> you mean existing driver on a new device?
20:17 <@itnet7> czajkowski: Nice! How's the Holiday
20:17 < mhall119> or is that 350 minutes at 20
20:17 < roadmap> Okay, and metadata comes in to basically give the machine an idea of what this new device may be?
20:17 < mhall119> either way
20:17 < mhall119> you'll end up with Terminators
20:17 < roadmap> Then construct a driver from there?
20:17 <@itnet7> mhall119: LOL
20:17 < dhillon-v10> we are then going to use a classifier constructed for this case and then use it to change that code, making new drivers
20:17 < roadmap> dhillon-v10, can I ask you a question?
20:17 < dhillon-v10> :) 
20:17 < roadmap> Can we call the project "Skynet"
20:17 < roadmap> Thats my only request.
20:17 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: you are going to get shot by John Connor
20:18 < mhall119> roadmap: the goal is to "grow" a driver that is "close" into what you want
20:18 < reya276> LOL Skynet
20:18 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> sure, if you want to
20:18 < dhillon-v10> we might actually do that, I am serious
20:18 < Michelle_Qimo> we're writing shakespeare with monkeys with typewriters?  something to that effect?
20:18 < roadmap> mhall119, The goal is to use metadata and genetic algorithims to figure out if device X may be related to new device Y and construct a driver from the available code for driver X
20:18 < roadmap> the problem is you're going to end up with a lot of broken/failed drivers and a few working ones
20:18 < mhall119> roadmap: yes
20:19 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> precisely that's why we train the classifler for quite a bit of time to increase the success rate
20:19 < mhall119> but, if it's all automated, you don't have to weed through the broken ones
20:19 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: we need to move on, to get through the rest of the agenda items, but if you can stay I am sure when we are done the conversations can continue
20:19 < roadmap> it may be a good way to at least attempt to plug the lack of drivers available on linux (on certain devices) but honestly I havent had much of a hardware problem aside from broadcom wireless cards
20:19 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> sorry this took longer than I thought
20:19 < roadmap> I don't know if you're doing this to accelerate driver development for new devices (that need drivers) or to support legacy devices that may have no support elsewhere
20:19 < roadmap> whats the end goal?
20:19 < roadmap> No matter how hard you train the classifier, there is still going to be need for human intervention
20:19 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: no problem there is an interest in learning more, so we will shelf it, until the end ok?
20:19 < mhall119> roadmap: both
20:20 <*> itnet7 changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: Welcome to the Ubuntu Florida Local  Community IRC Chat || http://www.ubuntu-fl.org || Next Team Meeting:  October 6th at 8 pm EDT || Get involved with upcoming events see:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/GetInvolved || Orlando Python  Users Group (OPUG) Meeting https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Events  October 8th at 7 pm at Orlando Brewing Company  http://tinyurl.com/y85tnzs
20:20 <@itnet7> oops
20:20 < mhall119> roadmap: the goal is to not have to "build" drivers anymore, just "grow" them
20:20 < roadmap> itnet7, aw, I'm actually getting into this idea
20:20 <@itnet7> lol
20:20 <*> itnet7 changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: Ubuntu-FL Spouses group, for wives, girlfriends and significant others
20:20 < dhillon-v10> thanks
20:20 < mhall119> roadmap: tough, it's Michelle_Qimo's turn
20:20 < roadmap> dhillon-v10, how does that future proof linux?
20:20 < Michelle_Qimo> *ahem*
20:20 < roadmap> ahhh
20:20 < mhall119> roadmap: PM
20:20 < roadmap> fine
20:20 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: has the floor!
20:20 < roadmap> I'll wait until this is over
20:20 < roadmap> the information may answer everyones questions
20:20 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->tranzporta [i=43bf4eb2@gateway/web/freenode/x-jpliubbdqyfcwoup]
20:20 <@itnet7> ty roadmap 
20:20 < Michelle_Qimo> so, how many SOs do we have tonight?
20:21 < roadmap> =) no problem
20:21 < dhillon-v10> I'll be around
20:21 < mhall119> SO=Significant Other
20:21 < roadmap> Michelle_Qimo, Mine isn't here. Shes at dinner with her father. Also, she'd have to be here!?!? We had that conversation...
20:21 < Michelle_Qimo> yes, I know
20:21 < mhall119> Significant Other=Wife, husband, girl friend, boy friend
20:21 <@itnet7> tranzporta: welcome aboard, we have a meeting in progress
20:21 < mhall119> girl friend=individual of the female gender that put's up with you for unknown reasons
20:21 < roadmap> Thats exactly what jamalta's girlfriend says
20:21 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> lol
20:21 < roadmap> "Why does your girlfriend put up with you roadmap!?"
20:22 < Michelle_Qimo> So, here's the deal, gang.  I, along with some of the other spouses and significant others (regardless of gender) are launching a Spouses group
20:22 < tranzporta> thanks is there a certain topic in tis meeting "significant others"
20:22 < roadmap> I told telepathy that I got her half off at a yard sale
20:22 < roadmap> anyways shutting up..
20:22 < mhall119> tranzporta: just starting
20:22  Michelle_Qimo 1,2, testing... Is this thing on?
20:22 <@itnet7> second agenda item https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
20:23 < Michelle_Qimo> Spouses group - a group of those of us non-nerds, who want to support our nerdish spouses
20:23 <@itnet7> +1
20:23 < mhall119> so, the idea is to find a way to include those in our personal relationships with the LoCo, when they have no real interest in computers, linux or open source
20:23 < Michelle_Qimo> and figure out what *we* can do, as a group, to be a group, but also provide support to the rest of the Loco
20:23 < Michelle_Qimo> we're currently kicking around the idea of scrapbooking the loco events.
20:24 < Michelle_Qimo> I would ideally like to launch our first get-together at FLS, if there's no serious objection.
20:24 <@itnet7> I really think that it has some serious potential!
20:24 <@itnet7> Do you want us to call a vote for the record?
20:24 <@itnet7> +1
20:24 < roadmap> Hah
20:24 < roadmap> My girlfriend is really interested but shes unavailable for a little while
20:24 < mhall119> I think Michelle_Qimo should blog about it from the get-go, to inspire similar things in other LoCos
20:25 < Michelle_Qimo> erm, I'm ok, as long as there are no major objections.
20:25 < roadmap> She wont make FLS even if I do, and I'm going to be extremely late (I work that day)
20:25 < roadmap> Either way I think its a very interesting concept and I hope to see it take off
20:25 < mhall119> roadmap: you're gonna have to let her be a part of the group, just man-up and deal with it
20:25 < Michelle_Qimo> Let me be perfectly clear, before we get it off the ground, though....  IT IS NOT ABOUT GENDER.
20:25 <@itnet7> mhall119: I think that would be an awesome idea!
20:25 < mhall119> does anyone have any input on what this group should look like, how it should operate, etc?
20:25 < tranzporta> ok im new to loco and ran into some problems with it what time can i ask questions and get help before i go loco for real 
20:26 <@itnet7> tranzporta: pm me
20:26 < roadmap> itnet7, I was going to answer the question publicly (it may help others with the same question)
20:26 < roadmap> but alright... =) I'll let you handle it
20:26 < mhall119> tranzporta: there's be open-mic time when we've gone through all the agenda items, you can bring up anything then
20:26 <@itnet7> or you can wait about another 20 minutes 
20:26 < Michelle_Qimo> It sort of segues into the third topic, while we're here...
20:26 <@itnet7> roadmap: i just didn't want too much cross-talk
20:27 < mhall119> so, the only rules on the SO group is that there is no gender requirement or expectation
20:27 < Michelle_Qimo> So... Vote on OK to Spouses group?
20:27 < mhall119> and that mudsplatter is not allowed
20:27 < Michelle_Qimo> and that
20:27 < roadmap> itnet7, its really a one sentence answer. "You can talk any time unless we're in a meeting. You can show up to any loco event whenever you like"
20:27 < roadmap> and to elaborate on the meeting "You can talk if you have questions or comments about the current agenda item. Or are mudsplatter"
20:27 < dhillon-v10> lol
20:27  Michelle_Qimo coughs politely
20:27 < tranzporta> ok is this the pm cuz iono how to do so 
20:28 < mhall119> any questions about the SO group before we move on?
20:28 <@itnet7> I vote yes, looking for input here people
20:28 < dhillon-v10> +1 from me :)
20:28 < chunkxzor> I vote yes too
20:28 < Michelle_Qimo> second?  move to accept?  etc?
20:28 < mhall119> okay, so something is going to be setup for FLS, a BoF kind of session perhaps
20:29 < Michelle_Qimo> yes, watch for some sort of BoF deal-o at FLS, make sure to bring your SOs
20:29 < roadmap> hi chunkxzor 
20:29 < roadmap> welcome to the meeting!
20:29 < mhall119> itnet7: can SO's of LoCo members get free admission to FLS?
20:29 < dhillon-v10> what's FLS
20:29 < roadmap> If chunkxzor is my spouse can he join?
20:29 < chunkxzor> roadmap, been here the whole time
20:29 < chunkxzor> no
20:29 < roadmap> ohhh 
20:29 < chunkxzor> :(
20:30 <@itnet7> mhall119: I don't think that will be a problem at all
20:30 < mhall119> is dantalizing here?
20:30 <*> itnet7 changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: family.ubuntu-fl.org website for family activities, blogs, forums, etc
20:30 < Michelle_Qimo> OK, so should we move on?
20:30 < roadmap> I have 0 lives and I'm at magnet mans door. I gotta beat this boss with 0 lives, no E tanks, and two powers that don't hurt him. This is wonderful =(
20:30 < Michelle_Qimo> there we go then.
20:30 <@itnet7> I don't think dantalizing is here
20:30 < Michelle_Qimo> roadmap: don't take this the wrong way, but hush
20:31 < mhall119> itnet7: okay, can you get Michelle_Qimo setup to blog on ubuntu-fl.org?
20:31 < roadmap> Michelle_Qimo, after eating your awesome food I could never take it the wrong way!
20:31  roadmap shuts up again
20:31 <@itnet7> mhall119: I think we can put the team planet back on there
20:31 < mhall119> okay, so moving along to the mostly related subject
20:31 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 can you explain the whole notion in topic 3 for me?
20:32 <@itnet7> or something similar
20:32 < mhall119> okay, so along with the idea of including more significant others in the group, we're talking about setting up a sub-domain site dedicated to family-oriented blogs and forums
20:32 < mhall119> family.ubuntu-fl.org
20:32 <*> Quits ->govatent [n=govatent@206.209.103.5] [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
20:33 < mhall119> which would not be about Ubuntu, but a way to keep in touch as friends and families that are connected by the Ubuntu Florida LoCo
20:33 < Michelle_Qimo> some place where we can all go, brag about our kiddies, keep in touch as friends, seek advice, etc.
20:33 < mhall119> now that we've had a change to meet spouses, children, etc, we kind of want to keep up
20:33 <@itnet7> I think it's another really good idea
20:33 < mhall119> it also serves as another way to get more of the family involved, instead of just the one member who is a computer nerd
20:34 < Michelle_Qimo> we want to keep it locked down, though - to just a members list - to protect the kids, etc.
20:34  dhillon-v10 agress with mhall119
20:34 < mhall119> this will make it easier for those of us which families, because we can bring our spouses and kids to LoCo events, knowing that it's okay, they won't be bored or feel awkward
20:34 < mhall119> right, not every LoCo member automatically gets access to the family site
20:35 < mhall119> (mudsplatter)
20:35 < Michelle_Qimo> I'm willing to moderate and maintain it, since I've been working on getting all of us together.  
20:35 < mhall119> so we'll need to setup some guidelines about membership and conduct
20:35 <@itnet7> Sounds good to me Michelle_Qimo ! 
20:35 < mhall119> (mudsplatter)
20:35 < Michelle_Qimo> I'm *really* excited about this, guys
20:36 < mhall119> does anyone else think their family members would like to be involved with that?
20:36 < Michelle_Qimo> it gives all of us a change to actually form solid, longstanding friendships, not bound by limits of Ubuntu, or location.
20:36 < Michelle_Qimo> chance
20:36 < roadmap> My sister might be but i highly doubt anyone in my family would actually do anything related to it.
20:36 < mhall119> roadmap: I was talking specifically to people with stable, sane relationships
20:36 < roadmap> chunkxzor, will tell you that our families tend to have some kind of belief that Linux is made from evil magically elves
20:36 < roadmap> mhall119, I was talking about immediate family to start =)
20:37 < Michelle_Qimo> It'd also give us a place to track birthdays, anniversaries, etc.
20:37 < mhall119> roadmap: I was talking about people you'd like to take to LoCo events with you
20:37 < roadmap> I converted my sister to Ubuntu and she may be willing to do something along those lines
20:37 <@itnet7> roadmap: You mean Linux isn't made from evil magically  elves
20:37 <@itnet7> ??
20:37 < roadmap> mhall119, yeah definitely not my sister
20:37 < mhall119> itnet7: that's BSD
20:37  Michelle_Qimo sighs
20:37 < roadmap> her and I get along like superglue gets along with most peoples buttcracks...
20:37 < mhall119> TMI
20:37 < mhall119> now hush
20:37 < chunkxzor> LOL
20:38 <@itnet7> ROFL
20:38 < roadmap> What? All Im saying is I wouldn't have a use for the family.ubuntu-fl.org thing
20:38 < roadmap> I have no qualms with it
20:38 < roadmap> I just was giving my input
20:38 < Michelle_Qimo> everyone else OK with this notion?
20:38 < mhall119> fine, then no mudsplatter _or_ roadmap
20:38 <@itnet7> I think it would be a really cool project to do!
20:38 < mhall119> itnet7: would Hannya or Bre participate?
20:38 < Michelle_Qimo> it *will* be a safe place, just to alleviate fears, etc.
20:38 < mhall119> also, forgive any spelling mistakes in their names
20:39 < roadmap> mhall119, mudsplatter is chinese. Half of China is probably related to him. He may be a giant contributor
20:39 < roadmap> I'd at least ask him
20:39 < mhall119> didn't I tell you to hush?
20:39 < roadmap> =( yes
20:39 <@itnet7> Hannya did say that she was interested in the Spouses group, not sure if she would post anything on family.ubuntu-fl.org
20:39 <@itnet7> but I think she might!
20:39 < Michelle_Qimo> it will also be extremely kid-friendly
20:39  Michelle_Qimo looks at roadmap
20:39 < mhall119> DammitJim isn't here, nor mscahill
20:39 < mhall119> jamalta?
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> Lori & Heidi & Brit would be welcome.
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> As would Amber, even though she's not in FL.
20:40 < mhall119> Catsceo and his Mom too
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> absolutely
20:40 < mhall119> who else?
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> ImitatingReality, as well
20:40 < dhillon-v10> me me
20:40 <@itnet7> I think we should go for it then!
20:40 < mhall119> even though she's leaving us for Chicago
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> dhillon-v10: and your parents, too!
20:40 <@itnet7> Nice!
20:40 < dhillon-v10> lol
20:40 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->X-Man [i=443f3416@gateway/web/freenode/x-fshfroyveklubqny]
20:41 < Michelle_Qimo> The family forums won't be limited to *just* the spouses group, though
20:41 < dhillon-v10> <Michelle_Qimo> I have to say though my parents think that linux is evil
20:41 < mhall119> okay, so if everyone thinks this is a good idea, I'll work with dantalizing to get it setup
20:41 <@itnet7> I think we really don't even need to vote on this
20:41 < Michelle_Qimo> dhillon-v10: but it might be a good way to introduce them to all of *us*, so maybe you can come to events, and so on.
20:41 < mhall119> any ideas on platform?  I'm thinking Drupal
20:42 < dhillon-v10> <Michelle_Qimo> true :)
20:42 < Michelle_Qimo> I don't really care about platform, as long as it's relatively simple to maintain
20:42 < mhall119> unless Wordpress had a forums plugin
20:42 < mhall119> I care about platform, I have to make this happen
20:42 < dhillon-v10> what about phpBB3
20:42 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: can it do blogs and such?
20:43 <@itnet7> Drupal +1
20:43 < Michelle_Qimo> I *really* want to give us a family friendly feel.  I think, if we can develop the support groups of the wives & families, that the Florida loco could be something serious.
20:43 < dhillon-v10> no, i forgot about that part
20:43 < mhall119> yeah, I'm leaning Drupal too, even though I don't like it as much
20:43 < roadmap> mhall119, you reallllly like drupal dontcha
20:43 < roadmap> Weren't we all interested in learning Django?
20:43 < roadmap> Plus like four of us are going to OPUG
20:43 < mhall119> roadmap: yes, but django is for webapps ,not community sites
20:43 < Michelle_Qimo> roadmap: you gotta remember MY learning curve.
20:43 < roadmap> django has a lot of flexibility
20:43 < roadmap> now Michelle_Qimo on the other hand makes a valid point
20:43 < mhall119> roadmap: yeah, if you write it yourself
20:44 < roadmap> mhall119, I'm a masochist. I write in perl.
20:44 < mhall119> roadmap: do you like django?
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> This needs to be something that is approachable, by a wife, or a child, etc.
20:44 < mhall119> roadmap: that's not masochism, that's machoism
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> I don't want it to be more complicated than necessary
20:44 <@itnet7> Okay so these are details we can work out, let move on a bit
20:44 < roadmap> I've used it once, I'm not exactly what you'd call a master or "fluent" with it but it seemed pretty flexibile
20:44 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> cam you tell me more about django
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> yes sir!
20:44 < mhall119> moving on
20:44 <*> itnet7 changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: Changes to the Subheader Banner and other Wiki cleanup
20:44 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: later
20:44 < dhillon-v10> *can
20:44 < dhillon-v10> alright
20:45 <@itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Sandbox/SubHeader/Test here is what I began working on 
20:45 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: looks good
20:45 <@itnet7> I plan on changing either the left or right logo to not be a florida team one
20:45 < dhillon-v10> looks near :)
20:45 < roadmap> I like it so far
20:45 < dhillon-v10> *neat
20:46  reya276 likes it alot
20:46 < mhall119> itnet7: what's different?
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> I'd change the one on the left, if it were me
20:46 <pak33m> hey all im here now
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> hey pak33m
20:46 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: that is what I was thinking too
20:46 < roadmap> hey pak33m just in time for your wiki revamp session
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> it makes more sense for that to be the standard ubuntu logo
20:46 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: which?
20:47 <@itnet7> The left one?
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> the one on the left
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> yeah, since the topic is about ubuntu in general
20:47 <pak33m> itnet7: i like the logo on th right
20:47 < mhall119> true
20:47 <@itnet7> I was thinking of something totally different as there is already one at the top of each wiki page
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> whereas the topic on the right is about the loco
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: good point
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> how about a giant "Don't Panic" button?
20:47 <@itnet7> Like a Jazzed up Welcome Matt
20:47 < roadmap> Best analogy ever
20:48 <pak33m> itnet7: im with it
20:48 < roadmap> I love fancy welcome matts
20:48 < Michelle_Qimo> anywho, I quite like it, itnet7, it looks great!
20:48 <@itnet7> Don't Panic! nice, how about a "That was easy!" button with audio?
20:48 < Michelle_Qimo> we might get sued
20:48 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: over a joke?
20:48 < mhall119> and we won't get sued for "Don't Panic!"?
20:49 <@itnet7> I wasn't seriously going to put it
20:49 <@itnet7> :-)
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> I doubt it... Adams is dead.
20:49 < mhall119> but his estate owns it
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> eh, true
20:49 <@itnet7> I would like to try and put together a wiki restructuring team
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> OK, anyway, we're being distracting.
20:49 <pak33m> how about a picture of ice cream, everybody likes ice cream
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: I'm happy to help
20:49 < mhall119> pak33m: or parfait?
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> I'll proof read everything as it goes live, if you need me to
20:50 <pak33m> mhall119: or donuts
20:50 < Michelle_Qimo> Ubu-nuts?
20:50 < mhall119> http://moinmo.in/HelpOnMoinWikiSyntax for anyone who needs wiki-syntax help
20:50 <@itnet7> cool, I am not sure I am going to lead it, but I want to contribute to it. After I change the left image I am going to replace the current subheader unless there are objections
20:51 < Michelle_Qimo> no objections from me
20:51 <pak33m> good to see so many people intertested in helping out on the wiki. it does need love.
20:51 < mhall119> itnet7: do we have an idea of what needs to be done, or would that be task #1?
20:51 < Michelle_Qimo> Consolidation
20:51 < dhillon-v10> <Michelle_Qimo> :)
20:52 <pak33m> itnet7: how about making an outline of what were going to do for all to follow.
20:52 <@itnet7> More than likely task #1 I have some ideas on good ways I think we can attack it, but would welcome other suggestions
20:52 <pak33m> an outline for the wiki redux  that is
20:52 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: an outline would be terrific to start
20:53 < mhall119> itnet7: you should make a wiki page for that
20:53 < mhall119> and no, I'm not being sarcastic
20:53 < Michelle_Qimo> an outline of what we *want* the wiki to look like, regardless of what we currently have.  
20:53 <@itnet7> pak33m: I think you would be the perfect team lead for this! You were the one that revamped the site and made it better this last revision
20:53 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> yah then we all can add styff to it
20:53 <@itnet7> you and dantalizing 
20:53 <pak33m> itnet7: ok np
20:54 <@itnet7> If you don't have time though
20:54 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: I'll help, if I can, however
20:54 <pak33m> itnet7: i mean sir yes sir
20:54 < dhillon-v10> I can try
20:54 <@itnet7> You and I can try and work on it over the wire :-)
20:54 <pak33m> how about we newly form a wiki team?
20:54 < roadmap> Thats it, megaman has angered me. I'm going to pull out photoshop and start work on my ultra secret side project.
20:54 <@itnet7> don't call me sir I work for a living
20:54 <@itnet7> That would be really cool
20:54 <@itnet7> that was what I was leaning towards
20:54 <pak33m> i mean [IDEA] how about we newly form a wiki team?
20:54 < Michelle_Qimo> a team would make the most sense... we could do a wiki jam!
20:54 < mhall119> itnet7: should this be an LP project?  so you can use blueprints and bug tracker?
20:55 <@itnet7> and I would like to provide some good tips and tricks in plain english
20:55 < roadmap> Well a wiki is supposed to be publicly editable but having designated maintainers does sound like a good idea
20:55 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: I'll help plain-english things, if you'd like
20:55 <@itnet7> mhall119: if it makes sense to do it in LP then I think it would be good
20:55 < roadmap> at least that way if the public doesn't update it, someone who is designated to update it would get the job done
20:55 <pak33m> itnet7: i can create a faq for the team wiki.
20:55 <@itnet7> Nice pak33m !!
20:55 < dhillon-v10> Is there anything that I can do....
20:56 < dhillon-v10> I feel kind of left out of this whole topic
20:56 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: Sign up for the team if we create the project in LP
20:56 < roadmap> You and me both. Then again I did spend half of this topic trying to beat Shadow Man
20:56 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> alright :)
20:56 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: you can pull out your classifiers and crawl the existing wiki pages to give us an idea of what's where
20:56 <@itnet7> We can definitely use whatever help we can get and you have really good organizational skills
20:56 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> :) anytime
20:57 <@itnet7> mhall119: I can create a blueprint and a project, I need the practice
20:57 <pak33m> itnet7: i have a big question about the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Events page as it stands right now. are you at a point in the topic where i could ask without interupting your flow.
20:57 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: I'm serious
20:57 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: a classifier would be good here
20:57 < Michelle_Qimo> a list of what's where, currently, would be an excellent thing to have
20:57 <@itnet7> I am not sure about need any branches though since it is the wiki, agreed?
20:57 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> I have to create web bots and then use the classifiers with them
20:57 < mhall119> itnet7: unless we can put it in bzr, branches won't do much
20:57 <pak33m> wow i think i sounded all proper there.
20:58 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: web bots are easy
20:58 <@itnet7> that is what I was think 
20:58 <@itnet7> in
20:58 <@itnet7> g
20:58 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> yah, it won'e be too bad
20:58 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: it would be very useful to have too
20:58 < dhillon-v10> but I haven't created one before so I might need some help here and there
20:59 < mhall119> no problem, just ask around
20:59 <@itnet7> Okay last two topics quickly then we can do open-mic I was hoping that more people would have attended I was going to ask for  show of hands for FLS
20:59 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 and I will be there.
20:59 < mhall119> with bells on
20:59 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: Can I email you our form back?
21:00 < roadmap> itnet7, is it alright to be late? and by late I mean I wont be there until at least 1 PM and thats if I can attend. I'm still not 100% sure about attending in the first place.
21:00 <pak33m> itnet7: for now and/or in the future should events on the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Events be listed by event or by date?
21:00 < mhall119> roadmap: people will be coming and going all day
21:00 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: E-mail it to Rod, I will give you address in PM
21:00 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: I vote date
21:00 < chunkxzor> Im planning on going to FLS but I'm not sure whether I'm going to be able to make it now
21:00 <pak33m> wait two more things about the wiki
21:00 < roadmap> mhall119, yes but I want to be there to help represent the team that doesn't claim me!
21:00 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: OK, will do
21:00 < mhall119> roadmap: because you never show up
21:00 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i think so too after addinig an event on there recently
21:00 < Michelle_Qimo> roadmap: we claim you like I claim my crazy aunt
21:00 < roadmap> mhall119, Only if there is free food
21:01 < mhall119> but if you do, you can be late, it's okay
21:01 < roadmap> Well you promise not to eat my food if I leave it?
21:01 < mhall119> roadmap: you think I'm starving for food?
21:01 < Michelle_Qimo> bwahahahaa
21:01 <pak33m> itnet7: we gotta do something serious about this page. or at least the mac fanboys pictured in it!
21:01 <pak33m> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Pictures
21:01 < roadmap> =(
21:01 <pak33m> hehe
21:01 <@itnet7> LOL
21:01 <@itnet7> I am not a fanboy
21:01 <pak33m> just had to get that out there
21:02 <@itnet7> at least not a mac
21:02 <pak33m> itnet7: youre an chuck fanboy
21:02 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: I've got photos from our events, and from the last release party, if you want 'em
21:02 <@itnet7> last one really quickly
21:02 <pak33m> itnet7: ok sounds like the events page will be listed by date of event. me and Michelle_Qimo rule the wiki
21:03 <@itnet7> Advocacy in our Cities and Counties to try and increase the number of quality contributors
21:03 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: we rock
21:03 < mhall119> itnet7: you need to clarify that a bit
21:03 < mhall119> what are we advocating, to whom, and for what?
21:03 <@itnet7> You're serious?
21:03 < mhall119> yes
21:04 < mhall119> are we advocating the use of Ubuntu, participation in the LoCo, adoption of open source/open standards?
21:04 < Michelle_Qimo> I'd guess we're advocating ubuntu, to everyone, for general principle
21:04 <@itnet7> Advocacy for Ubuntu, Raise awareness in our communities, and Try and get people involved with the Team that have potential to be good contributors
21:04 < mhall119> are we advocating to friends and relatives, elected officials, businesses?
21:05 <@itnet7> Anyone that would listen
21:05 < Michelle_Qimo> um... yes?
21:05 < roadmap> I'm advocating all kinds of things.
21:05 < chunkxzor> I won't advocate all the things roadmap does :-X
21:05 < mhall119> itnet7: it's just kind of broad to form any real action plan around
21:05 <@itnet7> then do it in the most general sense
21:06 < mhall119> lol, problem solved then
21:06 <@itnet7> We are way over in time, and I am providing support by way of PM
21:06 <@itnet7> I was thinking
21:06 < mhall119> how about this, everyone try to bring one friend or co-worker to a LoCo event this month
21:06 <@itnet7> that I am goinng to start a BPuG
21:06 < mhall119> FLS is a great excuse
21:06 <@itnet7> Brevard County Python Users Group
21:07 < mhall119> or, how about everyone contact their local school board to advocate the use of free software in their district
21:07 <@itnet7> mhall119: I can't ask anyone to do that, although I think it would be really cool
21:07 <pak33m> itnet7: you mean kind of like i mentioned recently about getting out there to bookstores, coffee houses, etc. with a setup and talk and share ubuntu?
21:07 < mhall119> something tangible, that we can say "we did it" or "we didn't do it"
21:08 < mhall119> itnet7: I like the idea of general advocacy, but just saying that doesn't give me any indication of what I should do differently from last month
21:08 < Michelle_Qimo> I vote for random tagging of objects with flyers... and then photographing the locations for a scrapbook... Like the Billy Mays stickers.
21:09 <@itnet7> mhall119: take for example
21:09 < mhall119> Michelle_Qimo: +1
21:09 <@itnet7> I have 4 people from here that go to any of the Linux related meetups, etc
21:09 < chunkxzor> Michelle_Qimo, i like that idea
21:10 <@itnet7> I would like to try and form a local meetup and grow the amount of people that are here in brevard
21:10 < mhall119> how about "Have you seen this Penguin?" flyers with a picture of Tux, and a url at the bottom, like the lost puppy flyers
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> omg.cute
21:10 < mhall119> itnet7: great, that's a tangible effort
21:10 < mhall119> you know what you want to accomplish and how to do it
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: what can we do to support the brevard group?
21:11 <@itnet7> mhall119: I do have some really good ideas
21:11 < mhall119> mail-order lasagna
21:11 <@itnet7> that would work!!!
21:11 < mhall119> itnet7: I know you do
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> um, it could be arranged
21:11 <@itnet7> I would like to almost create a LoCo Advocacy "Street Team"
21:11 <@itnet7> if you will
21:11 < mhall119> I like the street team concept
21:12 <pak33m> "taking it to the street"
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> as do I.  
21:12 < mhall119> dj pak33m strikes again
21:12 <@itnet7> Yeah, and I don't mean like FSF Windows Sins stuff
21:12 <pak33m> i was hoping somebody would get it
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> nah, we need to do something positive
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> I got it, pak33m
21:12 <@itnet7> but just showing the value of Ubuntu
21:12 < mhall119> what?  no?  but I wanted to call one of the leading open source authors a traitor
21:12 <@itnet7> pak33m: you know that I know that you know that I know
21:13 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i can count on you, youre a fellow wiki master
21:13 < Michelle_Qimo> :-)
21:13 < Michelle_Qimo> Up on the roof, even
21:13 < mhall119> wiki masters have elite music trivia skills?
21:13 < Michelle_Qimo> absolutely.  Didn't you know?
21:13 <pak33m> itnet7: hehe i tried that very same thing on a 6 year old tonight. she didnt understand the riddle.
21:13 < mhall119> must be a moinmoin thing
21:13 <@itnet7> Well I would like to try and see if we can build a method of reaching people and unleashing it all over
21:14 <pak33m> moinmoin is superior
21:14 < Michelle_Qimo> I quite like Mike's "Have you seen this penguin" idea...
21:14 < mhall119> me too
21:14 < mhall119> kind of viral, kind of familiar, all cute penguin
21:14 <@itnet7> Wouldn't it be cool to have to rent a facility for Florida Team B-day Bash 
21:14 < Michelle_Qimo> I've been thinking about it, anyway, itnet7
21:14 < mhall119> in the near term, we can have tear-offs with the FLS info
21:14 < roadmap> So uh
21:15 <pak33m> itnet7: we gotta get it intoo peoples hands. like having a setup where people can come over and try it out kinda thing
21:15 < roadmap> I may have a present for everyone in a few moments =(
21:15 < mhall119> I thought we were the facility for the b-day bash
21:15 < Michelle_Qimo> we are, for the moment
21:15 < Michelle_Qimo> I need to discuss that open-mic style
21:15 <@itnet7> mhall119: you are the facility for that this year
21:16 < mhall119> pak33m: we need a portable gazeebo, a diesel generator and some tables in the middle of a Best Buy parking lot
21:16 <pak33m> itnet7: think how fun it would be if we were setup in public somehwere with a few machines and people were able to give ubuntu a whirl
21:16 <@itnet7> but what if we had like 1000 members and 1/2 of them were active
21:16 <@itnet7> we couldn't fit 500 people in your residence
21:16 <pak33m> mhall119: yes def in front of best buy
21:16 <@itnet7> at least not comfortably :-)
21:16 < mhall119> itnet7: true
21:16 <pak33m> i can certainly play music for 1000 members
21:17 < mhall119> +1
21:17 <pak33m> that would be great
21:17 < mhall119> dj pak33m would rock the house!
21:17 <pak33m> and i might play fugazi for itnet7 
21:17 <@itnet7> pak33m: that would seriously Rock1
21:17 <@itnet7> Rock!
21:17 < dhillon-v10> so does that conclude our meeting guys
21:18 < mhall119> itnet7: we're getting some good ideas over here
21:18 < Michelle_Qimo> Hey, guys, whatcha think about carshow booths?
21:18 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: pretty much, I just wanted to lay that out
21:18 <pak33m> itnet7: i saw what the dc loco did at a folk festival. maybe we could get into that. i know they have one in high spgs each year and other places.
21:18 <pak33m> itnet7: that way we could have a setup and advocate there
21:18 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: We can get involved at community fairs and stuff
21:18 < mhall119> itnet7: definitely
21:19 <pak33m> community fairs awesome
21:19 < mhall119> Lakeland has a down-town park that often has public events going on, where we can setup a booth
21:19 <pak33m> grassroots ftw
21:19 < Michelle_Qimo> I know a large portion of the old car scene within the central florida area... do you want me to polish these connections off, and see what it would take to get us in at some of these events?
21:19 <pak33m> maybe crashsystems could get it going up in high spgs
21:19 <pak33m> methinks hes near there
21:19 <@itnet7> pak33m: that is kind of what I mean
21:19 <@itnet7> If I could get like 10 - 20 by next year
21:20 <pak33m> grassbuntu
21:20 < mhall119> itnet7: if we start really pushing adoption, we need to setup some kind of support network to help the people we're converting
21:20 <@itnet7> and have them come to a couple of events and meet up think about what we could accomplish as a team!
21:20 < Michelle_Qimo> couple this with our families group, itnet7, and we could kick some serious grassroots ass
21:20 <pak33m> itnet7:  i know what you mean. i was going to say like a the grassroots obama movement but i didnt want to start up any drama.
21:21 < mhall119> no obama drama?
21:21 <@itnet7> Yes We Can!!
21:21 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->ebouza__ [n=ebouza@c-75-74-254-229.hsd1.fl.comcast.net]
21:21 < Michelle_Qimo> no more of your 'bama drama
21:21 <@itnet7> :-P
21:21 <pak33m> see what i mean
21:21 < Michelle_Qimo> ;-)
21:21 < ebouza__> Good evening everyone
21:21 < Michelle_Qimo> hey there ebouza
21:21 < mhall119> pak33m: you just hate him because he's asian
21:21 <pak33m> heya ebouza__ 
21:21 <@itnet7> hey there ebouza__ !!
21:21 < ebouza__> me/ says good evening
21:21 <pak33m> mhall119: oh i thought that was mudsplatter
21:22  ebouza__ says good evening
21:22 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: I'll start asking around with some of the street rod guys, see what we can pull together.
21:22 < mhall119> no, mudsplatter hates Obama because he's human
21:22 <pak33m> we should have a meeting agenda item just for mudsplatter I. Deep Thoughts About Mudplatter
21:23 < roadmap> oh guys
21:23 < roadmap> er
21:23 < roadmap> uhhh guys
21:23 < mhall119> how about guerrilla advocacy?
21:23 < roadmap> I have something I need to ask you
21:23 <@itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: we don't have to act on it now, but I would like to really try to make like a primary project for next year!
21:23 < ebouza__> itnet7:  I think I might be able to make it to FLS 
21:23 <@itnet7> ebouza__: that would ROCK!!
21:23 <pak33m> itnet7: should this be a project first?
21:23 < roadmap> Since we're all talking about mudsplatter
21:23 < Michelle_Qimo> sure thing.  I'll send out some feelers.  The big show is about to come up, so I know we'd be out this year, but next year, I suspect, we could get in.
21:23 < roadmap> Do you guys think this is a little overboard? http://i37.tinypic.com/izs1p2.jpg
21:24 <@itnet7> we're not all talking about he that has no name
21:24 < mhall119> roadmap: yes
21:24 < Michelle_Qimo> roadmap: um.....  a little overboard, yes
21:24 < roadmap> because I've been holding onto it =(
21:24 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->Strapples [n=Strapple@unaffiliated/strapples]
21:24 < mhall119> you left out Taiwan, you'll offend him
21:24 < roadmap> hahaha
21:24 <@itnet7> dhillon-v10: the meeting is pretty much over now
21:24 <pak33m> roadmap: is that a buuda image in the middle
21:24 < ebouza__> itnet7:Let see how everything works out.
21:24 <@itnet7> Hey there Strapples !!
21:24 < roadmap> pak33m, thats mudsplatter himself from his korean hacker gets slapped video
21:25 < Michelle_Qimo> OK, itnet7 just a quick question - can I get a show of hands for the birthday bash?
21:25 < Strapples> hi
21:25 < roadmap> Its like fifteen frames in
21:25 < ebouza__> Who's Birthday?
21:25 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> I was just multi tasking that's why  I asked that question
21:25 < dhillon-v10> :)
21:25 <pak33m> roadmap: asewome work you should be part of our artwork team
21:25 < roadmap> What
21:25 < roadmap> me
21:25 < roadmap> never
21:25 < mhall119> ebouza__: the Loco
21:25 < Michelle_Qimo> ebouza__:  loco's birthday bash
21:25 < roadmap> i spend most of my art talent trolling people on various forums and 4chan
21:25 < mhall119> itnet7: how old are we now?
21:25 < ebouza__> Today is the loco's birthday
21:25 < roadmap> I did that image over there in the last fifteen minutes =(
21:25 < chunkxzor> Michelle_Qimo, when is it?
21:25 <@itnet7> o/ +2
21:25 <pak33m> roadmap: hehe is that our present?
21:25 < roadmap> Yes
21:25 < roadmap> Yes it is
21:26 < Michelle_Qimo> chunkxzor: Nov. 7
21:26 < roadmap> I wonder what itnet7 thinks =(
21:26 < chunkxzor> Michelle_Qimo, I dont know if I can make it then
21:26 <@itnet7> Possibly Chuck and Lupine, and I can try and invite Lupine's better half
21:26 < Michelle_Qimo> Please, everyone, let me know for sure sometime soonish, so I can start grocery shopping
21:26 <@itnet7> 2 years old as of sept 27
21:26 < roadmap> Well
21:26 < Michelle_Qimo> Also, if you're coming and can bring a side dish, please holler.
21:26 < roadmap> if Ubuntu China needs a logo
21:26 < roadmap> they can use mine
21:26 < mhall119> bring significant others to the b-day bash!  This is _not_ a geek event
21:26 < roadmap> I mean its already done for them and all
21:26 <pak33m> itnet7: maybe we should start talking up our grassubutnu idea at fls?
21:27 <pak33m> itnet7: to get the word outthere
21:27 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: grassubuntu at FLS would be great BoF
21:27 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: true 2x
21:27 < ebouza__> pak33m:  What is grassubuntu?
21:27 < mhall119> grass-roots advocacy
21:27 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: so would a team wiki redux bof
21:27 < Michelle_Qimo> I'll be there with bells on, pak33m, as long as I don't have a conflicting schedule.
21:27 < Michelle_Qimo> for both
21:27 < mhall119> I like ubuntu-roots better than grassubuntu
</pre>
