{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== No Scheduled Agenda items for December, Meetings were cancelled ===

=== Scheduled Agenda for November 16th, 2010 ===

* Discussion for an Ubuntu Promotional Hour @keenerchristopher@

=== Scheduled Agenda for November 2nd, 2010 ===

* Discussed getting things moving in Miami with Govatent and Chloric.

=== Scheduled Agenda for October 19th, 2010 ===

* Would like to discuss an Ubuntu Hour for Miami-Dade Area, Ideas for Venues, Times that would be good for everybody, etc. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:keenerchristopher]]</nowiki>  * Maverick Meerkat Release Parties -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * UDS-N Host's Party Final Planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for October 5th, 2010 ===

* UDS updates (hopefully) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * Maverick release parties! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for September 21st, 2010 ===

* UDS Welcome Party update -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>  * <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N/OtherAccommodation|UDS Accommodations]]</nowiki> -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>  
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/MaverickReleaseParties| Meerkat Release Parties]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>  * October 23rd Theme Park with Milo Casagrande, Inviting others of course! -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for September 7th, 2010 ===

* UDS Welcome Party update -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * UDS Sponsorship Deadline -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for August 17th, 2010 ===

* The Importance of Team Reports, deadlines for UWN, and how we can all lend a hand in getting them done! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * UDS Host Party Planning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * Oct 26 Team Meeting at UDS -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for August 3rd, 2010 ===

* UDS-N (11.04) Will be held in Orlando, Oct 25-29.  Plan team participation. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * Change LoCo Birthday Bash to correspond with UDS-N? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * Establish some kind of rules for selecting meeting chairs, team contacts and team admins -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * Global Jam, and other events. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for May 18th, 2010 ===

* Team Minutes Role -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * Team Plans for the Future, Going forth, Ideas, Food for thought! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * CD's have arrived! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * South Florida Event coming soon!! Get Involved :-) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   

=== Scheduled Agenda for April 20th, 2010 ===

* Moved Launchpad Mailing List to the back burner update -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * Lucid Release Party, April 29th Pizza Gallery Viera/Melbourne Area -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for April 6th, 2010 ===

* Vote to move from using two mailing lists to one mailing lists. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>    * we're not actively trying to keep 2 lists.  Nobody wants 2.  We've brought this to the loco council previously and they denied our request to merge the lists.  Probably good to discuss this anyway and possibly just come up with a plan to get people off of the lp list. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>    * We can still discuss this, but I feel it really isn't necessary. Lets make the lists and merge them down to just the standard (non-LP) list. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * Lucid Release Party reminder/followup -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  * Vote Deadline has passed, Lets Discuss switching the meeting day over to Thursdays (Hopefully beginning in May) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for March 23rd, 2010 ===
'''''needs update'''''

=== Scheduled Agenda for March 9th, 2010 ===
'''''needs update'''''

=== Scheduled Agenda for February 23rd, 2010 ===
* IRC for New Users -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  * Anchor House Build Day -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  * <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects-LucidReleaseParties| Lucid Release Parties ]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:maxolasersquad]]</nowiki>, -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for February 9th, 2010 ===
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuGlobalJam]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  * Looking for instructors to teach classes in #ubuntu-classroom -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki> 

=== Scheduled Agenda for January 19, 2010 ===
* <nowiki>[[ UbuntuGlobalJam|Ubuntu Global Jam ]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  * Florida Team Re-Approval Pending -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * UbuCon at ALF -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Michelle_Qimo_4_Kids]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12235028|Installfest]]</nowiki> in Lakeland, Jan. 23rd -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Michelle_Qimo_4_Kids]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12044764|Anchor House]]</nowiki> Build Day, Auburndale, Jan. 30 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:Michelle_Qimo_4_Kids]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UserDays]]</nowiki> January 23, 2010 -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for January 5, 2010 ===
 I. Anchor House Needs -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  I. Family Website -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  I. UbuCon or LUG gathering in Lakeland in 2010 -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  I. <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Spacecoast-Linux/|SpaceCoast Linux and OSS Meetup Group]]</nowiki>  -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for December 15, 2009 ===
  I. <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12044764/|Anchor House Build Day]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. New Year's Eve Party. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh|zoopster]]</nowiki>   I. Large Scale Community Event in 2011, with 2 smaller events for 2010. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   I. Ubuntu Hour's throughout Florida. Orlando and FFEMTcJ has started one, we can have them      spread the state. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   I. Install Fest or similar event in Miami. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   I. Participation in the <nowiki>[[http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/12/15/ubuntu-community-hack-fest/|Ubuntu Community Hackfest]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. First Orlando Ubuntu Hour Recap -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for December 1, 2009 ===
  I. Starting an <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> in Orlando. '''FFEMTcJ'''
  I. Follow up on Mike's suggestion for picking a new project to support. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects#Proposed%20Projects%20to%20Support|Proposed List]]</nowiki> '''FFEMTcJ'''
  I. Suggestions for Holiday Meetup(s), Installfests, etc. For December -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   I. Family sub-site -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. Ubuntu Membership applications being taken on the 7th -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. Open Discussion
=== Scheduled Agenda for November 17, 2009 ===
  I. Use Blueprints in our Launchpad team to plan and track LoCo projects and initiatives -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. Find a new project to support now that FLS is over -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for November 3, 2009 ===
  I. Florida LoCo Birthday Bash - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning/|Ubuntu Learning Project]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>   I. Talk about South Florida event - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:alanbir]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for October 20, 2009 ===
 I. Florida Linux Show Topical Discussion (Possible Room Sharing, Carpooling, Needs, and Ideas) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Florida Team LoCo Bash -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>''  I. Ubuntu's 5th Birthday Today! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. New Ubuntu Code of Conduct! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Trolls and how we should try and handle them as a team. Quiet vs. Banning -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Drivers Automation take 2! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki>

=== Scheduled Agenda for October 6, 2009 ===
 I. Driver Automations update(very brief) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki> 
 I. Ubuntu-FL Spouses group, for wives, girlfriends and significant others -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  I. family.ubuntu-fl.org website for family activities, blogs, forums, etc. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  I. Changes to the Subheader Banner and other Wiki cleanup -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Please do a show of hands if you plan on going to FLS -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Advocacy in our Cities and Counties to try and increase the number of quality contributors -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for September 22, 2009 ===

 I. Driver Automation Procedures - Vikram Dhillon (dhillon-v10)
 I. Ubuntu Global Jam -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  I. Karmic Release Party Ideas -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Florida Linux Show Support -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>
   I. Global Jam Ideas - Presentation Jam? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  I. Orlando Meetup 9/26/09 <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

=== Scheduled Agenda for August 18, 2009 ===

 a. Wiki organization of the FloridaTeam namespace. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie|Cary Haynie]]</nowiki>
 a. Python Jam. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie|Cary Haynie]]</nowiki>
 a. Upcoming Events (ALF, BarCamp Tampa, Florida Team LoCo Anniversary Celebration, etc.) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   1. volunteers for ALF booth?
## volunteers to run a bug jam at ALF/Ubucon?
## volunteers for FLS booth? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  a. agenda item

=== Scheduled Agenda for July 21, 2009 ===
 a. <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10712135|At-Risk Youth Build Day]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki>  a. <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects-GlobalJam200910 | Ubuntu Global Jam]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  a. <nowiki>[[Mootbot]]</nowiki> for the team -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>  a. <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-TeamReports | July Report]]</nowiki> any submissions -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>  a. Upcoming <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects-BugJam | BugJam]]</nowiki> for the team -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>  a. Upcoming events summary -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>  a. open mic 

=== Scheduled Agenda for July 7, 2009 ===
  a. Brainstorm page to propose ideas for the team (talked about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> 
  a. Public advocacy events for the team (talked about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> 
  a. Become more involved in <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Mentors|LoCo Mentoring]]</nowiki> as a team -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall-lakeland]]</nowiki>   a. BugJam in Orlando on July 12th! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m | pak33m]]</nowiki>
  a. Florida Linux Show: Orlando, promotion and participation -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall-lakeland]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for June 16, 2009 ===
 
  a. Brainstorm page to propose ideas for the team (talked about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> 
  a. Public advocacy events for the team (talked about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>
  a. Youth Build Day, teach troubled teens to repair computers -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall-lakeland]]</nowiki>   a. Mentoring process for people interested in Ubuntu membership -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie]]</nowiki>
  a. Ubuntu Global Jam - https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/ - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> 
=== Scheduled Agenda for June 2, 2009 ===
  a. spazz135 would like to see if it's possible for Ubuntu FL to help(?) with a computer build project at his school (from last agenda was not discussed)--<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  a. Packaging Jams FTW! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  a. Tampa Meetup, June 6th.  Need RSVPs because we're bringing food and drinks. --<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall-lakeland]]</nowiki>   a. Open mic

=== Scheduled Agenda for May 19, 2009 ===

  a. Qimo Build Day, May 23rd.  - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall-lakeland]]</nowiki>
  a. New Website -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>   a. Any other business? -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ropetin]]</nowiki>

=== Scheduled Agenda for May 5, 2009 ===

  a. Big project for Florida Loco (write a program, webcasts, etc.) We should review <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects]]</nowiki> and build ourselves a focused direction. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome: DavidBaucum]]</nowiki>
  a. Discuss the possibilty of an IRC channel quote/karma bot. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:roadmap]]</nowiki>
  a. Website - this possibly ties into point 1, above - we need to move -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>   a. IRC Etiquette - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IrcGuidelines|Official Guidelines]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   a. Open Discussion

=== Scheduled Agenda for April 21, 2009 ===

  a. Determine candidates to sponsor future release parties.
  a. Develop a list of remote support softwares that will work across firewalls and on linux.
  a. Jaunty Release Parties (again) -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>   a. Open Discussion

=== Scheduled Agenda for April 7, 2009 ===

  a. Linked-in Group Florida Local Community Team -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>   a. Jaunty Release Parties -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> 

=== Scheduled Agenda for March 17, 2009 ===

   a. LoCo Website -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>    a. Case badges?  we dont need no stinkin' case badges.  or maybe we do -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>    a. https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2009-March/002904.html
   a. document freedom day - <nowiki>[[http://documentfreedom.org/|http://documentfreedom.org]]</nowiki> -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>    a. Open Discussion

=== Scheduled Agenda for March 3, 2009 ===

I. Florida Linux Show -- [[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]  a. Where is the pre-party?
  a. Volunteers & Activities
  a. Registration??
II. Jaunty Release Parties--<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>  a. 5 Jaunty Release Parties for Jaunty!
  a. Pak33m has agreed to organize Orlando
  a. We need someone to organize MIA, JAX, TPA, Other
