{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<chaynie> Time yet?
<Lupine> hola
* chaynie is here.
<itnet7> yup
<itnet7> So do we need the agenda?
<itnet7> or rather the link?
<chaynie> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<itnet7> Thanks chaynie .... show of hands on who is present?
<itnet7> o/
* chaynie is still here.
<itnet7> stick around chaynie we're going to volunteer you for stuff
<itnet7> :-)
* mhall119 here
<chaynie> itnet7: I think I'm getting chucked.
<itnet7> chaynie: ROFL
<itnet7> chaynie: actually since chuck isn't here we'll spare you and volunteer him!
* reya276 here
<itnet7> So chaynie you're up you have the first two spots
* dantalizing is here
<chaynie> Righto
<pak33m> president
<chaynie> Alright, the first item is more of a survey to see if everyone agrees, before we go off and do a massive change.
<itnet7> massive change -1
* Lupine here
<chaynie> ~10 days ago, while cleaning up the wiki, the inconsistency of the various FloridaTeam pages became quite obvious.
<chaynie> To myself, at least.
<chaynie> Some with headers, some without, etc. No real sense of being able to cleanly navigate our WikiSpace.
<chaynie> So, what I'm proposing is a cleanup and refinement of the FloridaTeam/* space to use a standard set of headers, includes, and redirects
<chaynie> Making the area more cohesive and visually appealing.
<chaynie> Thoughts?
<reya276> sounds good to me
<dantalizing> first thought ... wiki and 'visually appealing' are mutually exclusive
<chaynie> dantalizing: agreed, but we can make a 'best effort'
<dantalizing> jokes aside, we need a cleanup
<itnet7> The only thing I'm not sure about is every page having a header
<itnet7> like for example
<itnet7> when you created the info page on the bugjam, do you think that page requires a full header/subheader
<itnet7> ?
<itnet7> requires(d)
<chaynie> itnet7: I was going for consistency, mainly.
<dantalizing> maybe those event/project pages need a different header
<itnet7> Yeah! that might be cool
<chaynie> itnet7: as well as navigation ease.
<dantalizing> how we gonna do it chaynie ?
<chaynie> dantalizing: Essentially, we need to draft out how we want the wiki to be organized,
<itnet7> mash up, mash up,
<chaynie> dantalizing: and then update pages, move stuff, etc until we're happy.
<dantalizing> sounds like it'll take time
<dantalizing> :)
<chaynie> The crux of this issue is primarily we don't have a cohesive wiki presence.
<dantalizing> do we need a wiki team?
<chaynie> And we probably should.
<dantalizing> actually...we *have* a wiki team
<dantalizing> slackers
* pak33m is on the wiki team
* dantalizing is on the wiki team
<itnet7> dantalizing is on the wiki team
<itnet7> ROFL
<chaynie> dantalizing: I was going to do some mockups in a sandbox, and let the LoCo vote on the result.
<pak33m> all the kewl people are really
<itnet7> chaynie: cool
<dantalizing> pak33m: +1
<dantalizing> vote shmote
<dantalizing> vote with your wiki code
<pak33m> 1/2 of me says no header on every page, 1/2 of me says a header on every page
<itnet7> I think it sounds like a great idea
<chaynie> dantalizing: isn't that the problem we have now?
<dantalizing> pak33m: solution: header on half the pages
<dantalizing> chaynie: no the problem is we havent been consistent
<dantalizing> i dont think we have a huge number of editors all going off in their own direction
<chaynie> dantalizing: agreed, I was mostly being tongue in cheek. :)
<dantalizing> sry
<pak33m> my gut says a header on every page cos i think every page should follow the main page (if that makes sense)
<reya276> +1
<itnet7> I think almost all of the pages need headers, just not the very bottom level ones, but either way, we will need to fill out a separate page on procedure to ensure future pages match
<chaynie> As an aside, should we be nuking pages that are no longer relevant?
<pak33m> chaynie: maybe we need to define how to create -fl team wiki pages for all to follow
<itnet7> for when new guys join and want to get involved
<chaynie> pak33m: That will be the end result.
<dantalizing> chaynie: good question
<dantalizing> for instance i'd kept the membership page around just for historical purposes
<dantalizing> but its useless
<pak33m> like the chris rhode page
<chaynie> pak33m: My plan is to document the process into a page for that purpose.
<dantalizing> lol pak33m
<pak33m> chaynie: i can work with you on a draft
<itnet7> Cool, so you are going to head up the redesign then chaynie ?
<chaynie> Also, would a page on how to setup things like includes, and redirects be useful to everyone?
<itnet7> or is chuck doing it?
<chaynie> itnet7: I suppose, since I thought of it.
<pak33m> hehe chuck
<itnet7> sounds good to me chaynie
<pak33m> way to go chaynie
<dantalizing> i suggest we add a doc jam to our global jam schedule
<dantalizing> where chaynie can debut his beautification program
<dantalizing> and we can hack the wiki
<itnet7> sounds good
<pak33m> chaynie: can we collobrate on a draft
<chaynie> Any other thoughts on the wiki project
<chaynie> pak33m: cool, thanks.
<dantalizing> chaynie: is that ok with you?
<itnet7> anything nice about the current wiki was pak33m's doing
<chaynie> dantalizing: when is the global jam again
<pak33m> dantalizing: nice, doc jam i like that
<chaynie> ?
<itnet7> Oct 2-4
<pak33m> itnet7: ah shucks
<itnet7> chaynie: be sure to include the proper way to sign agenda items :-P
<itnet7> in the documentation
<dantalizing> lol
<pak33m> no seriously i do like the idea of a doc jam
<itnet7> ditto
<chaynie> itnet7: You're funny. ;)
<itnet7> On to the PyJam?
<chaynie> Anything else before we discuss how insanely awesome python is?
<itnet7> If you need help chaynie let us know, and if you need any advice or critique/help too
<chaynie> itnet7: Thanks, will do.
<dantalizing> ooo especially critique
<pak33m> it is awesome
<pak33m> and all the kewl people use it too
<itnet7> chaynie: ?
<dantalizing> chaynie: i have a sample project page at DanTrevino/Project(s) that may or may not be useful
<itnet7> pyjam?
<chaynie> itnet7: Are we ready to talk about the code jam?
<itnet7> sure we are
<itnet7> go ahead!!
<chaynie> dantalizing: I'll check it out after the meeting.
<chaynie> Ok
<chaynie> As most you probably already know, python is the preferred ( and primary ) language of desktop development in ubuntu
<chaynie> most new projects are usually in python.
<chaynie> and in fact, it's even starting to challenge perl in the sysadmin arena.
<dantalizing> +1
<reya276> oh cool
<dantalizing> boo for entrenched perl admins
<chaynie> So, with that mind, I think it's extremely helpful to everyone to at least be able to make small python scripts or make small hacks on larger projects.
* reya276 must learn python
<chaynie> To that end, I was thinking a series of social gatherings focused on learning python in a friendly group setting would be an excellent undertaking.
<chaynie> With a specific focus for each meeting, like sysadmin tasks, web development with django, pygtk development, etc...
<reya276> /me very interested in the pygtk
<chaynie> The idea is to get people who are unfamiliar with both python and programming in general tinkering and experimenting.
<dantalizing> reya276: you should check the quickly project on launchpad
<chaynie> In a setting where it is easy to ask for help.
<itnet7> Sounds good to me
<dantalizing> chaynie: +1
<pak33m> +1
<chaynie> My plan at the moment is to feather them in along with the multitude of other jams we're running. :D
<pak33m> chaynie: werent you targeting october for the first?
<chaynie> pak33m: something like that
<itnet7> chaynie: maybe we can create a presentation on python basics, so we can share it with spreadubuntu
<pak33m> chaynie: is this going to be for the team?
<chaynie> itnet7: Definitely.
<chaynie> pak33m: I don't understand the question. Primarily, its for the team's benefit, but anyone can attend.
<dantalizing> itnet7: chaynie there is a community learning project ..that may be a better place for it
<dantalizing> chaynie: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Learning
<chaynie> dantalizing: thanks!
<dantalizing> the learning team is putting together a full end to end training suite ...development, desktop, server admin, etc
<chaynie> Again, I'll look at it after the meeting.
<chaynie> don't want to disrupt the 'flow'.
* chaynie makes flowing hand gestures.
<chaynie> Also, I want to stress that this isn't a classroom type event.
<chaynie> The idea is to spread ideas, and skills around in a more sharing-centered environment.
<itnet7> cool dantalizing
<itnet7> I think it's going to be cool
<pak33m> chaynie: sorry i meant are we going to target the team only for now or send out info to lugs, etc
<chaynie> pak33m: I was thinking we'll send out notices to the LUGs, and they can show up if they desire.
<itnet7> So are we ready to move on I think we have a consesus that, the pyjam would ROCK!!
<pak33m> dantalizing try not to get in the way of chaynie s flow
<chaynie> pak33m: I think it would help boost OPUG's ranks too
<chaynie> itnet7: When are we tentatively setting the date for?
<itnet7> Oh...
<chaynie> Two weeks after the Global Jam, maybe?
<itnet7> what is good for you guys, we seem to have a lot coming down the pike
<itnet7> that is pretty close to FLS
<itnet7> the weekend before FLS?
<chaynie> itnet7: FLS is ?
<chaynie> Ah, nvm.
<itnet7> is that after Lupine is back?
<chaynie> itnet7: I believe so.
<Lupine> date?
<itnet7> Lupine: oct. 10 or the 17?
<chaynie> Oct 1th?
<Lupine> yup, good to go
<Lupine> return Oct2
<chaynie> or 10th
<chaynie> That's a week after the global jam though.
<dantalizing> remember release is 10/24 also
<chaynie> So we're stuck between a Jam and a Linux Show.
<dantalizing> iirc
<itnet7> lol
<Lupine> :)
<chaynie> Ok, tentative date is the 10-11th
<chaynie> I'll put something on the wiki.
<pak33m> heya akgraner
<itnet7> Nice chaynie !
<itnet7> good ideas!
<pak33m> im good for that date
<akgraner> hey pak33m
<chaynie> Having taken up over half the meeting, I'm spent.
<itnet7> So on to upcoming events
<itnet7> ALF, BarCamp Tampa, Florida Team LoCo Anniversary Celebration
<itnet7> ALF everyone has hopefully heard about ALF, and it seems that most of us in here are going
<itnet7> or present at the meeting anyways
<dantalizing> i heard reya276 is driving up
<itnet7> reya276: seriously??
<chaynie> dantalizing volunteered me to man the Ubuntu booth.
<reya276> lol jokes
<itnet7> I have from a very reliable source that the hotel has extended the rate until Sept. 1st
<itnet7> :-) akgraner
<akgraner> yep got word today
<itnet7> Does anyone have anything that they feel they might want to contribute at the ubucon?
<itnet7> like doing a BoF session?
<chaynie> Cool. pak33m and I are leaving Orlando @ 9am on Friday, hoping to hit ATL ~ 3pn.
<chaynie> err pm.
<dantalizing> itnet7: chaynie said he wanted to lead a bugjam
<akgraner> Bug Jam???
<itnet7> reya276: you should take a jet up to ATL
<itnet7> that would be cool
<chaynie> dantalizing: I'll definitely assist, and lead if I need to.
<itnet7> akgraner: do you know how the layout for the ubucon area is going to be, are we going to be in the same area as everyone else toward the back or something?
<akgraner> nope its down the hallway just a little
<itnet7> man scared reya away
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> so separate room?
<dantalizing> chaynie: i will help out too
<akgraner> so we can make noise if we need too
<itnet7> Nice!!!
<dantalizing> we may need help from itnet7 and pak33m depending on the turnout
<chaynie> dantalizing: Awesome.
<akgraner> it's a large triangle shaped ares
<akgraner> area
<itnet7> I might help depending on the turnout.....
<itnet7> J/K
<chaynie> dantalizing: Like stardust, but more people.
<akgraner> but we have access to a bigger area if we need it
<itnet7> I will help regardless
<itnet7> akgraner: nice!
<dantalizing> is there a projector? mic?
<itnet7> I think maybe the rest of us can take a look at the topics and come up with a little something as far as I know they are doing it in an unconference style
<dantalizing> do we need a mic? is it that big?
<akgraner> I don't think you will need a mic
<itnet7> dantalizing: we might be able to borrow zoopster's
<itnet7> can we bring a bullhorn?
<itnet7> j/k
<akgraner> :-)
<itnet7> projector
<akgraner> we are doing it unconference and I will have some easels with paper there
<itnet7> Nice!
<akgraner> I am not sure there are windows on two sides of the area
<akgraner> but you can bring it and we can see if it will work
<itnet7> Not sure who all here hasn't met Amber, but she has helped tremendously on the organization of ALF
<itnet7> Amber = akgraner
<itnet7> If you are planning on going and haven't please register yourself and any guests
<itnet7> BarCamp Tampa....
<itnet7> Zoopster is speaking and it's the same day as the Florida Team Anniversary
<dantalizing> i vote we move the bday party to tampa and make it a BCTPA afterparty
<itnet7> Yeah, that is what I was thinking too
<itnet7> mhall119: are you around?
* chaynie +1's the idea.
<mhall119> yup
<mhall119> haven't been paying attention though
<itnet7> can you read about the last ten lines
<mhall119> no BBQ?
<itnet7> Well, I was wanting to do the BBQ still
<mhall119> I can't BBQ in tampa
<itnet7> ROFL
<itnet7> Do you think you guys might be able to get a sitter?
<mhall119> maybe
<pak33m> i want to do the bbq too
<dantalizing> change the date?
<mhall119> pak33m: you can come over anytime
<pak33m> hehe the veggie wants to do the bbq
<itnet7> And then instead of you guys slaving all day making another wonderful meal, we can hit the FREE (usually) after party in tampa
<itnet7> and celebrate!
<pak33m> mhall119: ok that would be fun
<mhall119> itnet7: that would be fine
<Michelle_Qimo> I'm perfectly Ok with whatever y'all decide
<pak33m> i heard that if you go to bc tampa you could come away with the macn1a1
<mhall119> pak33m: but you have to bring chaynie, so my daughter has someone to humiliate
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: Thanks!
<itnet7> ROFL
* chaynie sighs.
<Michelle_Qimo> rofl
<pak33m> mhall119: hehe i thought that was chuck that she did that too
<pak33m> oh yeah it was both
<dantalizing> lol....now i really miss not going
<mhall119> we have pictures of chaynie, not chuck
<Michelle_Qimo> eh, whomever... she doesn't care.
<pak33m> itnet7: wheres that pic already?!!!
<mhall119> dantalizing: ask for itnet7's pictures
<pak33m> itnet7: that could be on the flyer fpr the pyjam
<dantalizing> itnet7: wheres the pictures?
<itnet7> I have unlisted them
<mhall119> pak33m: he took the album down, because we don't have a photo release for the children's home kids
<pak33m> we just want the one with chaynie
<mhall119> itnet7: you can put back the ones from the dinner
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, that photo of chaynie is priceless
<Michelle_Qimo> :-)
<itnet7> http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/MsUuczAW82mW1u2yBcP4hA?authkey=Gv1sRgCObmt--G8JbqmgE&feat=directlink
<itnet7> let me know if that doesn't work
<mhall119> it works
<mhall119> :)
<chaynie> That's going up on my facebook.
<Michelle_Qimo> rofl!
<itnet7> he's sooooooo METAL!!!
<itnet7> or mental
<itnet7> not sure
<mhall119> emo
<itnet7> ROFL
* chaynie runs off and cries at being called emo.
<pak33m> so, are we having a bbq for the bday aprty?
<mhall119> not my bbq if we're gonna be in tampa
* pak33m hands chaynie some math rock
<Michelle_Qimo> better than meth rock.
<itnet7> pak33m: I think it might be good to try and reschedule maybe we can put up a new Poll?
<dantalizing> yay
<dantalizing> finally a poll idea
<pak33m> itnet7: sounds good
* itnet7 knows that dantalizing want's to use the poll feature bad-ly
<pak33m> why dont we use the poll for the jams?
<dantalizing> if i wanted to use it bad-ly, i'd ask 'dans best feature is:' and then give my top 5 options
<itnet7> dantalizing: good luck with getting a response
<itnet7> ROFL
<dantalizing> but i do want badly to use it
<chaynie> dantalizing: As long as there is a Cowboy Neal option.
<itnet7> unless smita decides to create multiple accounts
<itnet7> ROFL
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> benny lava
<dantalizing> my looney bun is fine!
<itnet7> Well we should also discuss the plan of manning the booths at ALF, and FLS
<itnet7> and that will pretty much some up my items.
* chaynie has already agreed to ALF.
<dantalizing> there is gonna be an ubuntu booth
<chaynie> Is it ubuntu or just FL team?
<itnet7> Has everyone registered for FLS
<Michelle_Qimo> I don't know how much use we'll be at ALF... we're planning to fly in that morning, and home that evening.
<itnet7> dantalizing: is that at ALF
<dantalizing> boredandblogging said 'ubuntu' ... sry itnet7 yes alf
<pak33m> dantalizing: first poll: Who put the goat in there?
<itnet7> then maybe we can rotate in "if" they need us
<itnet7> I can bring the Banner
<pak33m> itnet7: dont you mean personning the booth and not manning
<chaynie> Nice. Free FLS
<dantalizing> i'll man the booth during zoopster's talk
* chaynie kisses his Rollins ID.
<dantalizing> :-P
<itnet7> Oh, yup
<itnet7> chaynie: we are working on getting a code for free reg with Lugs and LoCo's hopefully
<chaynie> itnet7: The site mentions its free for students, so I'm golden.
<dantalizing> chaynie: everyone ... new site is here: fls.ubuntu-fl.org
<itnet7> chaynie: I was saying from the viewpoint if you go up to stardust, or know of any lug members that aren't students
<dantalizing> registration doesnt work yet
<dantalizing> but will when we move it over
<itnet7> have to tuck my daughter in be right back
<dantalizing> we're gonna need volunteers for the ubuntu-fl booth at FLS too
<pak33m> dantalizing: maybe i could setup my dj rig right at the booth
<dantalizing> cool
<dantalizing> that would be cool
<mhall119> dantalizing: put the Qimo booth next to the ubuntu-fl booth
<chaynie> We should also think about the FLS afterparty.
<dantalizing> and pre-party
<mhall119> and mid-party
<mhall119> also, we should to a after-(pre-party)-party
<dantalizing> +1
<zoopster> wow...this is a active meeting geez
<Michelle_Qimo> if we can put the qimo booth next to the the loco booth, I'll bounce between the two
<zoopster> yes my projector is borrowable
<chaynie> itnet7: Just registered for FLS.
<zoopster> and if the concensus is to move the party to tampa, I'll host it during barcamp
<itnet7> chaynie: sweet!
<Michelle_Qimo> zoopster: works by me
<itnet7> Nice zoopster !
<dantalizing> cool!
<zoopster> of course that is pending approval from the boss
<itnet7> Before I forget, I want to say a special Thanks to both Michelle_Qimo and mhall119 for having us involved at the build day, and for the Great dinner and fellowship afterward!
<itnet7> zoopster: ask her soon
<itnet7> :-P
<mhall119> no, thank you guys for coming and helping out, it was a huge success because of all the help we got
* ** pak331 is now known as pak33m
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: you guys are always welcome in our home. Thank you so very much, all of you, for all you did to help
<dantalizing> can we getsomeone to post on the site and uwn
<dantalizing> ?
<mhall119> dantalizing: you mean about the build day?
<dantalizing> yes
<itnet7> dantalizing: the planet party of ubuntu-fl.org doesn't seem to work, is it down
<Michelle_Qimo> I'm working on a blog-post... I can cross-post it
<itnet7> planet part
<mhall119> woo hoo, party planet!
<mhall119> oh, nevermind...
<itnet7> lol
<dantalizing> itnet7: i'll check
<itnet7> atleast if you go to planet.ubuntu.com the url that is there doesn't point to the new environment
<mhall119> dantalizing: can you just integrate an RSS feed from our website?
<dantalizing> mhall119: maybe
<itnet7> http://florida.ubuntu-us.org/planet/ is what it is currently showing on Planet's right sidebar
<dantalizing> sry typing w/1 hand and rocking w/ the othr
<itnet7> now that's a Dad!!!!
<itnet7> Woohoo
<chaynie> dantalizing: \m/
<Michelle_Qimo> lol
<chaynie> oh, nvm.
<itnet7> I also will finish up my blog, just had wanted to get some facts straightened out, and need some time to finish it up
<itnet7> So I guess that about sums it up thanks everyone for attending
<dantalizing> tata
<chaynie> later.
<itnet7> Unless anyone else want's to talk openmic style
<itnet7> :-0
<itnet7> are linkbacks or pingbacks in wordpress a good thing to approve?
<mhall119> it helps google rank
<mhall119> for anyone who links to you
<itnet7> Oh, almost forgot one quick thing
<itnet7> We did receive the books for locos
<mhall119> sweet!
<itnet7> If anyone has a real need to read them let me know and I will try to bring them along
<mhall119> any word yet on whether Jono is going to get a similar deal for Art of Community?
<itnet7> to one of the next get togethers and you can borrow them, when done we can pass them around
<mhall119> itnet7: might be good to put up a wiki page to track who has what, and who's next to get it
<itnet7> mhall119: you can download the art of community creative commons I believe
<mhall119> the books, the banner, anything else
<mhall119> itnet7: oh, cool
<itnet7> if you want a real book, you can get a 35% discount from pearson
<mhall119> last I heard it was gonna be 29.99
<itnet7> I have the code
<itnet7> I signed the loco up for the o'reilly/pearson users group so we can get discounts
<mhall119> I might just buy it, good for Jono and anyone else who published CC'd work
<itnet7> I have downloaded it, but plan to buy it as well
<itnet7> the more we vote with our dollars, the more good books will still be in print
<itnet7> :-)
<mhall119> +1
<itnet7> speaking of which dantalizing is going to be happy they released it for the kindle
<itnet7> :-P
<mhall119> since it's open-mic time, I'd like to dump on Sun Microsystems
* chaynie provides beat-boxing for mhall's rant.
* itnet7 learned how to use mix
<itnet7> sort of
<itnet7> pak33m: mixxx can't use ogg's?
<itnet7> or is there something I'm missing
<mhall119> when you make a product who's tag line is "Write once, run anywhere", and you're putting out an SDK, make it run on more than just Windows XP & Vista!
<itnet7> everytime I point the first track to an .ogg file it crashes
<itnet7> mhall119: +1
<itnet7> pak33m: mixxx can't use ogg's?
<mhall119> I just enrolled in a class for Mobile Application Development
<mhall119> it requires Java ME SDK 3.0
<mhall119> which is Windows only
<pak33m> itnet7: i fairly sure it can
<chaynie> mhall119: you're mistaken, it's "Write once, debug everywhere"
<mhall119> chaynie: I'd even be happy with that
<itnet7> pak33m: I select track 1 as an .ogg, hit play, BAM segphault
<itnet7> .mp3's work fine
<pak33m> itnet7: what version are you running
<itnet7> it's the new one too
<itnet7> 1.7.0?
<chaynie> mhall119: what's in the SDK that's windows only.
<mhall119> chaynie: from the comments I've read, mostly the emulator
<itnet7> pak33m: and I installed the recommended libaudio file for 9.04
<chaynie> mhall119: suckage. Any change wine will come to the rescue?
<mhall119> probably not
<itnet7> chance even
<itnet7> :-P
<chaynie> thank, itnet7-spellcheck-edition!
<chaynie> err thanks.
* chaynie fails.
<Michelle_Qimo> but you're cute with a barrette on your goatee, so we'll keep you
<chaynie> thanks, Michelle_Qimo
<mhall119> it's that, or chuck will get beat up with a barbie the whole time
<Michelle_Qimo> :-D
<chaynie> Think I'm gonna head out. Talk to everyone in the morning.
<itnet7> LOL
<itnet7> gnight all !
<Michelle_Qimo> night everyone
<mhall119> night chaynie
<mhall119> night itnet7
<itnet7> g'night mhall119 chaynie dantalizing Lupine pak33m zoopster Michelle_Qimo and anyone else!
<zoopster> see ya itnet7
<itnet7> talk with you soon akgraner !
<akgraner> itnet7, yep
<akgraner> nite
</pre>
