{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Party Hardy Status ==

'''Time/Date/logistics''' - The Orlando party is scheduled for April 25^t^h 2008 at Fiddlers Green in Winter Park at 7 pm.
  
'''CDs'''- There were a few people interested in bringing Hardy CDs to share and DanTrevino is hoping that the pre-release Hardy CDs he ordered as an approved team will show up before Friday.  Talked about getting Hardy CD artwork form the Ubuntu Marketing wiki page.
 
'''Follow-up Install-fest with Brevard User Group''' - Talked a bit about meeting up and getting people interested in helping itnet7 at the installfest the day after the Hardy party in Orlando.

'''Action Items''' 

* <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> to find out from Fiddlers Green about hanging the Florida team banner.
* DanTrevino to bring an access point device to create a wireless network.
* <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> to have itnet7 provide more details on the project page about the installfest for the Brevard User Group.

== Ubuntu Open Week 4/28 - 3/3 ==

Talked about what Ubuntu Open Week is all about and getting people interested as a team efort.

== Any new events coming up? ==

<nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> and DanTrevino talked about getting together a bug jam and/or packaging jam for the Team.  

GavinBaker provided info about the following:
* CopyNight Tuesday in Orlando -- http://www.gavinbaker.com/copynight/
* Florida Creatives Monday in Orlando -- http://floridacreatives.com/florida-creatives/event/florida-creatives-happy-hour
* LEAP has an installfest on May 3: http://leap-cf.org/ifest.php3?meeting=next
would anybody be interested in having a florida team bug jam and/or packaging jam if we could put it together?

'''Action Items''': 

* <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> to find out about hosting bug jam and/or packaging jams form statik, greg-g an others.

== Gaming servers for the BBS, looking for a ETQW maintainer ==

Catsceo asked if anybody would be interested and a few people said yes.

== Open Discussion/Other Items ==

DanTrevino talked about the folding@home project for the team to get people interested and as a team project.  

Ax3 will setting up a bot to get rss feeds to the team website.

'''Action Items''':

* DanTrevino to put the folding@home project on the project page.
