{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-us-fl
[19:00:01] <mhall119> brownies
[19:00:16] <itnet7> So hopefully everyone is ready!
[19:00:25] <itnet7> [TOPIC] 1. Ubuntu Global Jam -- dantrevino 2010-01-12 16:11:43
[19:00:29] <mhall119> o/
[19:00:36] <itnet7> o/
[19:00:47] <dantalizing> o/
[19:00:49] <Michelle_Qimo> o/
[19:00:55] <govatent_> o/
[19:00:57] <himuraken> o/
[19:00:58] <cjohnston> o/
[19:01:04] <mhall119> 0_
[19:01:07] <itnet7> lol
[19:01:15] <mhall119> o|
[19:01:24] <cjohnston> that doesnt look natural
[19:01:25] <mhall119> I can do my ascii YMCA dance
[19:01:27] <itnet7> \o/
[19:01:35] <mhall119> ^o^
[19:01:50] <itnet7> dantalizing: you have the floor whenever you're ready ;-P
[19:01:56] <cjohnston> lol
[19:02:05] <FunicularGoat> Newb question -- What does "o/" mean?
[19:02:18] <dantalizing> it means 'look at that goat'
[19:02:18] <cjohnston> yellow goat... its "raising your hand"
[19:02:20] <mhall119> FunicularGoat, it's like a person raising their hand
[19:02:31] <mhall119> o=head, /=arm
[19:02:41] <dantalizing> so Ubuntu Global Jam March 26-28th
[19:02:53] <dantalizing> FL usually rocks the jam, so we cant let people down
[19:03:14] <dantalizing> i think we all know the possibilities ... bug, packaging, translation, etct
[19:03:31] <dantalizing> I propose we organize multiple jams across the state
[19:03:41] <dantalizing> "/finished
[19:03:45] * Michelle_Qimo has space & a smoker.
[19:03:50] <itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:03:57] <himuraken> o/
[19:04:01] <Michelle_Qimo> my backyard is always available
[19:04:06] <itnet7> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:04:10] <mhall119> do we want to do one big get-together, or multiple networked ones?
[19:04:18] <dantalizing> i like multiples
[19:04:23] <dantalizing> personally
[19:04:32] <itnet7> sounds good to me
[19:04:36] <himuraken> o/ New here, but what can non-coder types like myself do to help?
[19:04:41] <mhall119> would probably be easier for participation
[19:04:47] <dantalizing> himuraken: lots!
[19:04:48] <cjohnston> himuraken: do you cook?
[19:04:56] <mhall119> himuraken, documentation is always, always needed and appreciated
[19:04:56] <himuraken> LOL I mean directly with Ubuntu LOL
[19:04:56] <Michelle_Qimo> himuraken: a lot. :-)
[19:04:57] <cjohnston> Michelle_Qimo: always needs help making cookies
[19:05:04] <munz_> hey...sorry late
[19:05:06] <itnet7> [IDEA] multiple networked for Global Jam
[19:05:08] <himuraken> Extremely technical, just zero on the coding.
[19:05:19] <mhall119> documentation, testing, big triaging, all things non-coders can do that is desparately needed
[19:05:33] <himuraken> mhall119, sweet, I might pm yo ufor more details later.
[19:05:38] <dantalizing> himuraken: in the past we've taken this time to also teach how to do some of the stuff
[19:05:44] <dantalizing> so its not just heads down
[19:05:45] <mhall119> just ask around after the meeting in here himuraken
[19:05:49] <FunicularGoat> Agreed on multiple locations. And thanks himuraken for asking that question. In the same boat.
[19:05:59] <himuraken> mhall119, dantalizing sounds good.
[19:06:06] <mhall119> he looks alright too
[19:06:28] <mhall119> I mean, he doesn't have boredandblogging's hair, but...
[19:06:30] <itnet7> So where are we going to list the locations? wiki?
[19:06:40] <cjohnston> loco dir
[19:06:41] <dantalizing> wiki
[19:06:41] <cjohnston> !!
[19:06:47] <itnet7> So both?
[19:06:51] <dantalizing> if events are ready, sure
[19:06:52] <Michelle_Qimo> both
[19:06:56] <mhall119> loco-directory!
[19:07:06] <mhall119> should be ready in a week or so
[19:07:07] <itnet7> Any volunteers to create teh page?
[19:07:19] <itnet7> and a volunteer to add it to the directory?
[19:07:20] <Michelle_Qimo> not it
[19:07:27] <itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: :-P
[19:07:32] <mhall119> I'll add it to the directory when it's up
[19:07:32] <dantalizing> i'll do it
[19:07:44] <mhall119> someone on the LC will add the global event
[19:08:19] <itnet7> [ACTION] dantalizing is going to create the Wiki for the Team, mhall119 will add it to the directory, and itnet7 will add it to the LC
[19:08:41] <mhall119> someone might beat you to it on the global event, itnet7
[19:08:47] <itnet7> That's okay
[19:08:58] <itnet7> I will try to make sure it's there
[19:09:01] <Michelle_Qimo> agenda link?
[19:09:08] <cjohnston> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
[19:09:10] <itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings/#Agenda
[19:09:14] <mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
[19:09:17] <Michelle_Qimo> tyvm
[19:09:21] <Michelle_Qimo> you too
[19:09:26] <mhall119> there's more where that came from
[19:09:32] <itnet7> dantalizing: anything else to add? or should we go to topic 2?
[19:10:07] <dantalizing> for now, thats it
[19:10:13] <dantalizing> we just need to start planning
[19:10:26] <Michelle_Qimo> erm, *when* is global jam?
[19:10:34] <itnet7> I would encourage everyone in there areas to ask around to get a fell for what everyone wants to do
[19:10:37] <dantalizing> so Ubuntu Global Jam March 26-28th
[19:10:41] <mhall119> are there any requests for jam-teaching topics?
[19:10:59] <Michelle_Qimo> doc
[19:11:02] <itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:11:16] <Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: thanks
[19:11:22] <itnet7> [TOPIC] 2. Florida Team Re-Approval Pending -- itnet7 2010-01-19 11:29:57
[19:11:38] <mhall119> I wonder who our point of contact will be....
[19:11:51] <itnet7> Okay, so if the notice hasn't already been sent by the council we are going to be up for renewal
[19:12:15] <itnet7> mhall119: it won't be me, and I have to ask for a volunteer so that there isn't any favoritism :-)
[19:12:15] <dantalizing> we were up last october :p
[19:12:32] <mhall119> itnet7, a volunteer from the council, or from the loco?
[19:12:40] <mhall119> cause you're also the loco's contact
[19:12:52] <itnet7> mhall119: volunteer from the LoCo to represent the team
[19:13:02] <itnet7> at least I think that is the most fair way to do it
[19:13:03] <dantalizing> mhall119: we just need to organize our application
[19:13:09] * mhall119 volunteers dantalizing
[19:13:13] <dantalizing> and have someone speak to it
[19:13:18] <itnet7> hey there erictee
[19:13:27] <Michelle_Qimo> what all does it entail?
[19:13:29] <erictee> hi all !
[19:13:30] <cjohnston> speak to the application!
[19:13:44] <itnet7> let me get the link
[19:14:08] <dantalizing> i dont mind doing it ..
[19:14:13] <cjohnston> yay!
[19:14:27] <dantalizing> i helped with the first one .... so if anyone *wants* to do it ... thats also goo
[19:14:27] <itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
[19:14:30] <dantalizing> d
[19:14:47] <Michelle_Qimo> when's the deadline?
[19:14:54] <itnet7> have to remember the s's [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
[19:15:03] <itnet7> fail again
[19:15:15] <itnet7> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoCouncil/LoCoTeamReApproval
[19:15:19] <itnet7> There
[19:15:25] <dantalizing> yeah whats our deadline?
[19:15:29] <dantalizing> technically we're way past
[19:15:30] <itnet7> uhm, I am not sure about the exact deadline
[19:15:39] <dantalizing> can we pick a date then :)
[19:15:39] <mhall119> June I think
[19:15:56] * Michelle_Qimo sighs. Volunteers.
[19:16:01] <cjohnston> dantalizing: i can help ya
[19:16:04] <cjohnston> lol
[19:16:08] <cjohnston> Michelle_Qimo: got it first
[19:16:08] <itnet7> There is going to be an e-mail sent out that is going to list which LC member is going to contact which teams
[19:16:12] <Michelle_Qimo> What do I have to do? Just stay in touch with the Loco council?
[19:16:13] <mhall119> http://loco.ubuntu.com/teams/ubuntu-us-florida says June
[19:16:15] <itnet7> that letter will have the deadline
[19:16:23] <dantalizing> kk
[19:16:36] <dantalizing> how about I help Michelle_Qimo and cjohnston
[19:16:46] <Michelle_Qimo> that'd be fabulous, dantalizing
[19:16:48] <Jmax> 954 here reporting for duty
[19:16:52] <itnet7> that sounds good, and I can help prepare it as well
[19:16:53] <mhall119> 954?
[19:17:03] <Michelle_Qimo> area code
[19:17:10] <mhall119> where is that?
[19:17:17] <Michelle_Qimo> dunno
[19:17:28] <nprice> 408 here reporting for duty
[19:17:37] <FunicularGoat> Ft. Lauderdale
[19:17:44] <itnet7> Welcome aboard Jmax and esarjeant and nprice
[19:17:44] <mhall119> well you guys missed the first to meeting topics, but stick around there's more to come
[19:17:51] <Michelle_Qimo> ok, so, itnet7, put me down for PoC for the council, and I'll sort out what I need to do with it soon.
[19:18:02] <mhall119> s/ to / two /
[19:18:09] <munz_> 386
[19:18:25] <nprice> 386sx?
[19:18:35] <dantalizing> lol
[19:18:38] <itnet7> [ACTION] mhall119 Michelle_Qimo cjohnston and dantalizing will get together and begin the re-approval application/wiki
[19:18:47] <itnet7> is that good?
[19:18:49] <dantalizing> nprice just showed his age
[19:18:54] <nprice> not really
[19:19:00] <mhall119> yes really
[19:19:01] <Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: works for me
[19:19:10] <itnet7> [TOPIC] 3. UbuCon at ALF -- Michelle_Qimo_4_Kids
[19:19:13] <cjohnston> sure
[19:19:29] <Michelle_Qimo> hhm, I wonder if akgraner is around
[19:19:31] <nprice> someone start typing about the digits 9900 or 68000 or even 80
[19:19:35] <nprice> and i'll show my age
[19:19:37] <akgraner> yep
[19:19:41] <dantalizing> mmm...z80
[19:19:57] <akgraner> Michelle_Qimo, I'm lurking :-)
[19:19:59] <Michelle_Qimo> So... UbuCon at ALF.
[19:20:02] <dantalizing> um ... is there an alf?
[19:20:05] <Michelle_Qimo> :-)
[19:20:09] <itnet7> dantalizing: of course!
[19:20:10] <itnet7> lol
[19:20:20] <Michelle_Qimo> Atlanta Linux Fest. Happening in ?September
[19:20:22] <dantalizing> really?
[19:20:33] <Michelle_Qimo> dantalizing: yes sir
[19:20:37] <dantalizing> ubucon in atl is prelimnarily schedulde for november
[19:20:40] <dantalizing> isnt it akgraner ?
[19:21:22] <mhall119> it was november last year
[19:21:30] <itnet7> what was mhall119 ?
[19:21:31] <mhall119> wasn't it?
[19:21:37] <mhall119> no, that was FLS
[19:21:37] <Michelle_Qimo> akgraner has asked if we'd organize a ubucon at ALF, in conjunction with the ALF schedule
[19:21:38] <itnet7> the ubucon was in september with ALF
[19:21:41] <akgraner> nope Sep
[19:21:48] * mhall119 is getting his Linux shows confused
[19:21:49] <akgraner> in conjunction with ALF
[19:22:00] <akgraner> still locking in Dates but it will be in SEP
[19:22:07] <itnet7> akgraner: are they going to update the atlantalinuxfest.org page?
[19:22:10] <itnet7> or is there a new one?
[19:22:23] <akgraner> new one that one will be archieved
[19:22:24] <Michelle_Qimo> We've been discussing a block of 7 hours - 4 sessions, lunch break, and an afternoon non-con
[19:22:30] <akgraner> it's getting reworked now
[19:22:46] <rshxd> um speak english or ill have the cops after u
[19:22:51] <mhall119> are nick and josh doing ALF again this year?
[19:23:08] <Michelle_Qimo> I am willing to act as the point person for organization, but will need the help (and attendance, if at all possible) of the team.
[19:23:15] <cjohnston> rshxd: ALF == atlanta linux fest
[19:23:32] <mhall119> I'll attend
[19:23:33] <itnet7> [IDEA]Florida Team Organize the Ubuntu Users Conference at this year's Atlanta linux fest
[19:24:01] <rshxd> cjohnston: why are you blogging into the window of my irc client
[19:24:11] <itnet7> [IDEA] block of 7 hours - 4 sessions, lunch break, and an afternoon unconference style
[19:24:11] <cjohnston> huh?
[19:24:17] <Michelle_Qimo> Can I rely on a group of you guys to help me get this going?
[19:24:26] <itnet7> rshxd: lol
[19:25:00] <itnet7> We need to as a team decide if this is something that we could handle
[19:25:07] <itnet7> I think we can
[19:25:11] <cjohnston> i cant commit yet :-(
[19:25:16] <itnet7> but we need some firm commitments
[19:25:20] <Michelle_Qimo> yes, no, maybe so?
[19:25:27] <dantalizing> we need to get our plan straight
[19:25:28] <mhall119> where's pak33m and Chaynie?
[19:25:30] <itnet7> I would say it would take about 8 - 10 of us
[19:25:42] <itnet7> I will be there
[19:25:45] <mhall119> itnet7, just to organize?
[19:25:46] <dantalizing> last meeting we talked about doing our mini-cons and helping with Ubucon
[19:26:09] <itnet7> I was thinking that we may be able to use this as our spring board
[19:26:44] <itnet7> akgraner: was it only for organization?
[19:26:53] <mhall119> well we went from supporting Ubucon to being asked to organize it
[19:26:56] <itnet7> or we are going to facilitate everything
[19:27:05] <Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: organization
[19:27:08] <itnet7> I thought that was what supporting meant
[19:27:15] <mhall119> I ton't think we'll be using just Florida members as speakers
[19:27:20] <akgraner> here is what I had in mind
[19:27:25] <jamesrfla> Sorry I am late for the meeting. Forgot about it and might not have much time to stay
[19:27:29] <dantalizing> well if we're organizing why arent we doing it in florida?
[19:27:31] <akgraner> I can secure the space
[19:27:40] <itnet7> Well, no mhall119, but it would be nice to have enough members to fill in
[19:27:44] <akgraner> and you all take care of the schedule and staffing it
[19:27:46] <mhall119> dantalizing, because the need help in ALF to get it done
[19:27:56] <itnet7> in case people don't want to present
[19:28:21] <Michelle_Qimo> we need to organize, schedule, and speak. I think we can swing this.
[19:28:24] <mhall119> akgraner, this is going to be along side ALF, correct?
[19:28:30] <Michelle_Qimo> yes
[19:28:36] <mhall119> same venue?
[19:28:38] <Michelle_Qimo> yes
[19:28:45] <itnet7> mhall119: it has the potential to be for 75 - 150 people
[19:28:46] <akgraner> yes day before
[19:29:00] <itnet7> hey there maddog_2009
[19:29:10] <mhall119> ok, so we can recruit speakers from outside of Florida who are going to be there for ALF
[19:29:10] <itnet7> everyone watch for lightning!
[19:29:17] <mhall119> hey, it's maddog_2009
[19:29:31] <jamesrfla> I don't here anything down here in Ft. Myers itnet7
[19:29:36] <jamesrfla> *hear
[19:29:55] <himuraken> jamesrfla, FM eh? Hello mate :-)
[19:29:59] <itnet7> mhall119: I would think that would be fine, I just wanted try and be sure we could fill some slots in the conference in case
[19:30:04] <Michelle_Qimo> are we all on board?
[19:30:10] <Michelle_Qimo> or more-or-less, at any rate?
[19:30:10] <jamesrfla> himuraken: You live in Fort Myers?
[19:30:11] <mhall119> I am
[19:30:15] <itnet7> I am
[19:30:18] <maddog_2009> hey
[19:30:20] <himuraken> jamesrfla, Yep
[19:30:24] <govatent_> maddog_2009, hey
[19:30:46] <itnet7> jamesrfla: save that thought for when we have open floor at the end fo the meeting
[19:30:46] <dantalizing> yeah we're in
[19:30:58] <jamesrfla> okay itnet7
[19:31:02] <mhall119> akgraner, I assume we can advertise the ubucon on the alf website?
[19:31:12] <Michelle_Qimo> ok, I'll get started on it then. akgraner, let's get going. :-D
[19:31:24] <itnet7> Cool, we have some really good potential to help out ALF and make the Ubucon Great
[19:31:33] <itnet7> Thanks Michelle_Qimo !
[19:31:37] <Michelle_Qimo> we'll rock it. ;-D
[19:31:37] <rshxd> goodbye, #autism-central
[19:31:45] <Michelle_Qimo> dude.
[19:31:46] <akgraner> Michelle_Qimo, yep as soon as we lock in a date and venue which should happen next week
[19:31:56] <Michelle_Qimo> sounds good, hon. We'll be in touch.
[19:32:05] <itnet7> [TOPIC] 4. Installfest in Lakeland, Jan. 23rd -- Michelle_Qimo_4_Kids
[19:32:07] <akgraner> yep
[19:32:08] <dantalizing> ok .. sry gotta jet guys .. bbl
[19:32:12] <itnet7> bye dantalizing
[19:32:14] <cjohnston> bye dantalizing
[19:32:16] <mhall119> bye danstoner
[19:32:18] <mhall119> oops
[19:32:19] <mhall119> dantalizing,
[19:32:22] <Michelle_Qimo> bye dantalizing
[19:32:31] <Michelle_Qimo> ok, so, installfest, my house, Saturday
[19:32:52] <cjohnston> get a projector so you can broadcast user days
[19:32:59] <Michelle_Qimo> I've got 50+ towers that need OSs, plus a bunch of other crap that needs parting
[19:33:22] <Michelle_Qimo> I'll feed you.
[19:33:23] <mhall119> cjohnston, zoopster is in London, I'll ask him when he gets back
[19:33:25] <Michelle_Qimo> Come help
[19:33:27] <FunicularGoat> Times?
[19:33:33] <itnet7> mhall119: rofl
[19:33:35] <Michelle_Qimo> pretty please
[19:33:41] <Michelle_Qimo> 10a, FunicularGoat
[19:33:45] <Michelle_Qimo> till everyone leaves
[19:33:49] * cjohnston wont be there
[19:34:02] <itnet7> FunicularGoat: http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/
[19:34:03] <mhall119> cjohnston, got something better to do?
[19:34:11] * cjohnston throws a goat at mhall119
[19:34:14] <FunicularGoat> I'm in.
[19:34:14] <Michelle_Qimo> rofl
[19:34:15] <itnet7> This has some of the info
[19:34:19] <Michelle_Qimo> FunicularGoat: awesome!
[19:34:29] <himuraken> Green question of the night, at the install fest, who are the 50 boxes being loaded for?
[19:34:34] <itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: I am planning on coming, and bringing maddog_2009
[19:34:44] <Michelle_Qimo> himuraken: we give them to disadvantaged kids
[19:34:51] <cjohnston> why not maddog 20 20?
[19:34:54] <Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: I'll be watching for you both!
[19:34:54] <itnet7> My Boss is also going to come potentially and bring his son to help him
[19:35:00] <Michelle_Qimo> awesome
[19:35:05] <himuraken> Michelle_Qimo, awesome, should attendees bring boxen to five?
[19:35:08] <govatent_> should i go to lend a hand?
[19:35:13] <Michelle_Qimo> sure, if you've got some
[19:35:13] <FunicularGoat> Child labor laws...
[19:35:23] <Michelle_Qimo> govatent_: if you can make it!
[19:35:33] <Michelle_Qimo> FunicularGoat: I pay everyone in food.
[19:35:42] <himuraken> Michelle_Qimo, LOL boxes to donate....
[19:35:46] <cjohnston> there goes half of my audience :-(
[19:36:00] <FunicularGoat> Michelle_Qimo: They say the same thing in SE Asia.
[19:36:05] <mhall119> FunicularGoat, it's okay, we don't pay anything
[19:36:14] <FunicularGoat> :-)
[19:36:21] <mhall119> well, food yes
[19:36:26] <Michelle_Qimo> so, yeah, Saturday AM. Bring your friends and relations.
[19:36:30] <himuraken> o/ Are parts/boxes needed or wanted?
[19:36:35] <mhall119> but you get fed whether you work or not around here
[19:36:38] <govatent_> good queesiton himuraken
[19:36:41] <FunicularGoat> Just out of curiosity, where are you getting the hardware?
[19:36:45] <Michelle_Qimo> himuraken: parts are always welcome. Just not CRTs
[19:36:46] <mhall119> himuraken, anything P4 of better
[19:36:54] <itnet7> FunicularGoat: already received a large donation
[19:36:57] <Michelle_Qimo> FunicularGoat: donations to our non-profit
[19:36:58] <itnet7> of boxes
[19:37:04] <Michelle_Qimo> public & private
[19:37:11] <mhall119> http://www.quinncoincorporated.org/
[19:37:14] <himuraken> OK, we are building simple web/email/research time workstations for kids with Ubuntu right?
[19:37:19] <govatent_> any tools needed for the install?
[19:37:31] <govatent_> i can bring 2 8 port kvms
[19:37:32] <Michelle_Qimo> himuraken: some of them will get ubuntu, others will get Qimo.
[19:37:45] <mhall119> himuraken, we're building Ubuntu boxes for future college students
[19:37:46] <himuraken> Oh OK, I will read up on that.
[19:37:57] <mhall119> govatent_, that would be awesome
[19:38:05] <itnet7> speaking of which, have any of the speakers arrived?
[19:38:11] <govatent_> ill have to see if i can snatch them from work.
[19:38:11] <Michelle_Qimo> not yet
[19:38:19] <pak33m> mhall119: here reading good night books sorry. will read the logs back later.
[19:38:20] <itnet7> Oh, I hope you get them before you give them
[19:38:22] <himuraken> Is this something that happens often? I am not sure if I can make this meet, but I always have TONS of parts and boxes.
[19:38:28] <jamalta> hi there
[19:38:29] <jamalta> how's it goign
[19:38:34] <Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: we'll hold off until we do
[19:38:35] <mhall119> pak33m, you're old enough for real novels ya know
[19:38:37] <itnet7> hey there jamalta
[19:38:48] <mhall119> himuraken, about once a quarter
[19:38:51] <Michelle_Qimo> himuraken: PM me, I'll get you our contact information
[19:38:55] <itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: they should be here by the end of next week the latest
[19:39:24] <itnet7> himuraken: our next topic might interest you if you can't make this Saturdya
[19:39:30] <mhall119> itnet7, we have no rush on them, the Dell towers have built-in speakers
[19:39:37] <itnet7> s/Saturdya/Saturday
[19:39:40] <himuraken> itnet7, Cool
[19:39:48] <itnet7> [TOPIC] 5. Anchor House Build Day, Auburndale, Jan. 30 -- Michelle
[19:40:02] <mhall119> okay, so similar but not quite related topic
[19:40:17] <mhall119> we've been asked to help setup a small computer lab for a boy's home in Auburndale
[19:40:33] <mhall119> they already have the computers, but they need the network
[19:40:52] <himuraken> I have switches!
[19:40:54] <itnet7> I thought you could answer questions about them both sorry (I should have asked you
[19:41:04] <jamalta> hmm.. question, anyone know how to get your name highlighted in irssi if it's not the first thing in the message?
[19:41:06] <jamalta> if you write, hey jamalta
[19:41:06] <mhall119> we'll have about 12 computers in the lab
[19:41:08] <itnet7> himuraken: cool
[19:41:10] <jamalta> instead of jamlta: hey it won't highlight
[19:41:20] <mhall119> plus they have administration computers they want separated on their own network
[19:41:29] <cjohnston> jamalta: talk to me later.. i think im using a script
[19:41:33] <mhall119> jamalta, /help hilight
[19:41:39] <cjohnston> maybe that too
[19:41:41] <cjohnston> i dunno
[19:42:20] <mhall119> so if you can't make the install fest, come out to the Anchor House build day
[19:42:33] * munz_ goin
[19:42:34] <mhall119> we will once again be providing food, back at our house after the work is done
[19:42:37] <itnet7> mhall119: the build is for adults only though right?
[19:42:38] <jamalta> mhall119: thanks
[19:42:49] <jamalta> cjohnston: thanks, mhall119 pointed out /help hilight
[19:42:54] <mhall119> itnet7, yes, due to the nature of the boy's home, we're asking for adults only
[19:43:44] <itnet7> [TOPIC] 6. UserDays January 23, 2010 -- -- chrisjohnston 2010-01-19 16:10:09
[19:43:55] <cjohnston> ummm
[19:43:57] <cjohnston> yaaa
[19:44:00] <cjohnston> its saturday
[19:44:12] <mhall119> you'll have to do better than that
[19:44:16] <cjohnston> and.... if anyone else drops im gonna have a heart attack
[19:44:16] <itnet7> lol
[19:44:33] <mhall119> cjohnston needs volunteer instructors
[19:44:34] <itnet7> cjohnston: it shouldn't take that long for a mob to build 50 computers
[19:44:44] <itnet7> cjohnston: you still need instructors?
[19:44:45] <cjohnston> wanted to say thanks to jamalta for stepping up to the plate at the last minute to teach a course
[19:44:50] <mhall119> I'm already teaching a session on seahorse and gnupg
[19:44:58] <cjohnston> i found someone to atleast write the course
[19:45:03] <cjohnston> if he cant teach it i will
[19:45:21] <mhall119> cjohnston, what session is that?
[19:45:26] <cjohnston> i havent been able to get ahold of the guy teaching one of the main courses
[19:45:35] <cjohnston> Switching to Ubuntu & Installation
[19:45:45] <cjohnston> so one of the guys from the beginners team stepped up for that
[19:45:48] <mhall119> okay, so someone here can teach that, right guys?
[19:45:55] <cjohnston> and jamalta stepped up with restricted drivers
[19:45:57] <mhall119> cjohnston, to teach or just write?
[19:46:04] <cjohnston> so right now im good to go
[19:46:21] <itnet7> for those of you that are joining us for your first meeting:
[19:46:24] <jamalta> cjohnston: no problem, i think it will be a great opportunity
[19:46:25] <cjohnston> mhall119: right now i dont need anyone... but jamalta may need help with his class
[19:46:32] <itnet7> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDays
[19:46:41] <cjohnston> expecially since he got little notice
[19:47:07] <cjohnston> we are actually having a lead meeting right after this in #ubuntu-learning (9pm est)
[19:47:07] <himuraken> Are the times right on these? First session starts at 6am?
[19:47:14] <mhall119> I'll stay on IRC the whole time and make others do the installs
[19:47:17] * Michelle_Qimo is back
[19:47:21] <cjohnston> 0700 est
[19:47:21] <mhall119> himuraken, 7am
[19:47:32] <himuraken> Intro at 6 mhall119 ?
[19:47:40] <cjohnston> mhall119: i know how to get ahold of yall if i need something
[19:47:46] <cjohnston> himuraken: EST its 7 am
[19:47:46] <mhall119> 1200 UTC is 7am eastern
[19:48:06] <himuraken> Hrmm, the schedule using gcalender shows 6am as the cjohnston intro
[19:48:07] * mhall119 will have to set his alarm
[19:48:41] * Michelle_Qimo is not getting up that early
[19:48:46] <cjohnston> it looks right to me himuraken
[19:48:48] <mhall119> the kids will
[19:49:00] <himuraken> hrmm
[19:49:18] <cjohnston> side note.. since im thinkin about it, mhall119 and Michelle_Qimo.. hope goes back to work monday
[19:49:27] <itnet7> cjohnston: it shows 6am on the gcal for me as well
[19:49:36] <mhall119> cjohnston, good to hear
[19:49:38] <cjohnston> its showing 7 on mine
[19:49:40] <cjohnston> i dont know
[19:49:42] <Michelle_Qimo> cjohnston: good to hear. Send my love
[19:49:49] <itnet7> oh
[19:49:49] <cjohnston> itnet7: from the website?
[19:49:51] <itnet7> crap
[19:50:03] <itnet7> on bottom it shows central time zone
[19:50:15] <itnet7> on the gcal
[19:50:19] <itnet7> for my view
[19:50:38] <himuraken> itnet7, thats what I am seeing too
[19:50:45] <mhall119> why are you guys on central time?
[19:50:49] <cjohnston> i see that now
[19:50:51] <himuraken> LOL Im not
[19:50:55] <itnet7> rofl
[19:50:58] <cjohnston> mhall119: if you follow the ical link on UserDays...
[19:51:02] <cjohnston> it shows CST
[19:51:15] <cjohnston> hmm
[19:51:16] <himuraken> If you click Add To Schedule it goes to the proper place in google.
[19:51:29] <cjohnston> ill talk to nathan
[19:51:31] <itnet7> ah, the link says chicago
[19:51:37] <itnet7> if you hover over it
[19:51:43] <himuraken> So are these webinars?
[19:51:44] <cjohnston> try to get it utc
[19:51:57] <mhall119> himuraken, IRC sessions
[19:51:58] <jamalta> irc talks
[19:52:05] <himuraken> Very cool
[19:52:19] <himuraken> in #ubuntu-learning?
[19:52:26] <cjohnston> classroom
[19:52:38] <cjohnston> #ubuntu-classroom/#ubuntu-classroom-chat
[19:52:46] <himuraken> Ah thanks
[19:52:56] <mhall119> all the info should be on the wiki page
[19:53:12] <himuraken> Cool thanks
[19:53:29] <itnet7> himuraken: cool
[19:53:35] <cjohnston> who is going to be around saturday that i could bug if i needed somethin?
[19:53:51] <cjohnston> *cough*mhall119*cough*
[19:53:51] <mhall119> not me, I'm busy
[19:53:52] <cjohnston> :-P
[19:53:55] <Michelle_Qimo> cjohnston: I'll be in-and-out...
[19:53:57] <cjohnston> busy teaching
[19:54:01] <mhall119> that too
[19:54:09] <Michelle_Qimo> you know how to get us. :-D
[19:54:14] <cjohnston> yup
[19:54:17] <jamalta> cjohnston: i'll be here but i can't promise i'll be up at 7 :(
[19:54:27] <mhall119> I can put itnet7 pak33m or zoopster on if you need them
[19:54:29] <itnet7> cjohnston: you can page me, if I'm not driving I will try and help
[19:54:32] <jamalta> you have my phone # so you can always call me!
[19:54:39] <jamalta> even if i'm not awake
[19:54:48] <itnet7> or call my cell
[19:54:48] <cjohnston> jamalta: you better be up by 11
[19:55:14] <jamalta> cjohnston: of cours
[19:55:15] <cjohnston> itnet7: i dont have your contact info
[19:55:16] <jamalta> course
[19:55:27] <itnet7> cjohnston: you have called me in the past, I thought
[19:55:36] <itnet7> I will give it to you in pm
[19:55:37] <itnet7> later
[19:55:38] <cjohnston> nu uh
[19:55:41] <itnet7> lol
[19:55:49] <itnet7> maybe I never trusted you before
[19:55:50] <itnet7> lol
[19:55:58] <cjohnston> you still dont
[19:55:58] <cjohnston> and?
[19:56:01] <cjohnston> thats it for me
[19:56:03] <itnet7> here's my google voice nubmer
[19:56:05] <itnet7> lol
[19:56:06] <cjohnston> 4 minutes and i gotta move
[19:56:08] <cjohnston> nice
[19:56:27] <itnet7> [TOPIC]Open
[19:57:08] <cjohnston> nothin?
[19:57:11] <cjohnston> wow
[19:57:18] <itnet7> I just want to throw out there, that we are having a Space Coast Linux & OSS Meeting on Jan 22, for more info: http://www.meetup.com/SpacecoastLinux
[19:57:38] <itnet7> This is the first ever Space Coast Meetup
[19:57:39] <mhall119> how was Ubuntu Hour yesterday?
[19:57:52] <cjohnston> dantalizing and is wife and little on were there!
[19:57:53] <cjohnston> and pak33m
[19:57:59] <cjohnston> and a goat
[19:58:03] <Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: good luck with the meetup!
[19:58:04] <jamalta> cjohnston: wow awesome
[19:58:08] <itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: thanks!
[19:58:11] <cjohnston> but no jamalta
[19:58:15] <Michelle_Qimo> aw, I'm sorry I missed them
[19:58:18] <jamalta> no jamalta, nope :(
[19:58:22] <itnet7> The meeting is going to be held at Lupine's House
[19:58:24] <jamalta> i'm going to start having to make every other one
[19:58:26] <jamalta> or maybe 1 a month
[19:58:26] <mhall119> zoopster and I are planning a Tampa lunch-time meetup for the 29th if anyone is interested
[19:58:34] <itnet7> In Rockledge off of Fiske
[19:58:45] <dantalizing> isnt zoop in london?
[19:58:55] <dantalizing> oh
[19:58:56] <Michelle_Qimo> jamalta: how's Britta? (random q)
[19:58:56] <mhall119> for now
[19:58:58] <dantalizing> back
[19:59:01] <mhall119> he's coming back
[19:59:14] <dantalizing> aww
[19:59:14] <cjohnston> just in time dantalizing
[19:59:16] <cjohnston> lol
[19:59:33] <mhall119> once again, family.ubuntu.com is up, it needs contributors
[19:59:39] <Michelle_Qimo> yes, yes, I know
[19:59:42] <mhall119> everyone gets a blog there
[19:59:43] <himuraken> Anything going on in/around Tampa on Feb 24/25th? I am going to be in that area for a seminar....
[19:59:43] <Michelle_Qimo> show me how, dammitall
[19:59:46] <cjohnston> and someone to tell someone else how they want it done
[20:00:08] <itnet7> mhall119: will start trying to contribute there!
[20:00:13] <mhall119> cjohnston, can we put a signup link or something on the family site?
[20:00:14] <itnet7> Thanks for setting it up
[20:00:21] <cjohnston> umm
[20:00:22] <Michelle_Qimo> himuraken: some of us might be available
[20:00:26] <cjohnston> if there isnt one
[20:00:27] <cjohnston> ya
[20:00:27] <itnet7> oh, and cjohnston
[20:00:28] <Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 works in that direction
[20:00:32] <itnet7> thanks to you too
[20:00:34] <cjohnston> remind me
[20:00:46] <itnet7> #endmeeting
</pre>
