{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== In Attendance ===

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:thelupine]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:crashsystems]]</nowiki>
 
{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:shmolf]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki>

{OK} willowdale

=== School Computer Build ===
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> decided to skip this meeting agenda item as spazz135 was not present for the meeting.

=== Packaging Jam ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> mentioned that after he <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> and attended UDS Karmic he wanted to see if anyone is interested in organising a packaging jam.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie]]</nowiki> asked if we are possibly looking as these packaging jams as a stepping stone for people to get further involved in ubuntu development and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> both said yes.

** Talked about what packages we would work on and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> suggested all.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> directed everybody to a wiki page for running Packaging Jams.[1]

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> mentioned that he needs to make Qimo packages. 
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> mentioned that she could help with the organisation of the packaging jams.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie]]</nowiki> mentioned that there is a whole list of bugs in launchpad for apps that need packaging.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> mentioned that the Michigan team has a good amount of time in with packaging jams and bug jams to boot. [2]

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> suggested that wee take the time between now and next meeting to come up with some proposals on how we could do it as a team.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> offered to have a Packaging Jam at her house on the same date, September 27^th^, as the LoCo's B-day.[3]

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> will do an outline on a wiki page on what we plan to do for the Packaging Jam.

** Show of hands for those interested in a Packaging Jam.
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> suggested that we get some mentoring possibly a MOTU or even somebody from the Michigan team.
  
** Other Packaging Jam links provided.[4][5][6]  

=== Tampa Meetup ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> asked that everybody please register and RSVP if you plan on coming because he is bringing food and drinks.[7]

** The meetup is scheduled for, June 6, and will be in Tampa at Jimmie B Keel Branch Library.

=== Open Mic ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cary-haynie]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> mentioned the possibility of having a Bug Jam.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> suggested that like the proposed packaging jam we do do a bug jam from time to time.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> will add a wiki page for a Bug Jam.
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> suggested that if we had a Bug Jam that it be in early July or August even.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> asked <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:thelupine]]</nowiki> if we can work on a video that we can present and possibly share with SpreadUbuntu on basic bug triaging similar to Miami? 

=== Next Meeting ===
*** Next meeting is scheduled for June 16^th^ at 8 PM.

=== Links ===

       [0] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#agenda
 
       [1] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/RunningPackagingJam

       [2] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MichiganTeam/Projects

       [3] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/FlocoBday09

       [4] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/Complete

       [5] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Videos

       [6] www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFzPrzY2KFM 
      
       [7] http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10321899/
