{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-us-fl
[19:00:18] <itnet7> [TOPIC] IRC for New Users -- dantrevino 2010-02-23 12:27:34
[19:00:19] <ChunkxZor> Meeting started an hour ago?
[19:00:47] <itnet7> it looks right to me
[19:01:05] <itnet7> Oh
[19:01:10] <itnet7> I see what you mean ChunkxZor
[19:01:22] <mhall119|work> it's 20:00 here
[19:01:25] <itnet7> Yeah
[19:01:33] <jazz> 8:00 pm est here
[19:01:34] <ChunkxZor> lol
[19:01:34] <mhall119|work> maybe flu-land is off by an hour
[19:01:43] <itnet7> rofl mhall119|work
[19:01:43] <mhall119|work> the drugs will do that do you
[19:01:51] <itnet7> show of hands?
[19:01:56] <cjohnston> o/
[19:01:57] <himuraken> Ai.
[19:01:57] <mhall119|work> o/
[19:01:59] <himuraken> o/
[19:02:00] <itnet7> mhall119|work: I wish I had drugs only dayquil
[19:02:02] <ChunkxZor> Hai
[19:02:03] <itnet7> 0/
[19:02:16] <mhall119|work> dayquil is technically a drug, just a legal one
[19:03:00] <MichelleQ> sorry I'm late
[19:03:07] <itnet7> mhall119|work: technically you're righth, but I haven't seen too many people out on the corner pimpin for dayquil
[19:03:10] <itnet7> :-P
[19:03:17] <Abe> lol
[19:03:17] <itnet7> s/righth/right/
[19:03:19] <ChunkxZor> lol
[19:03:24] <jazz> drugs are manufactured, nature provides excellent source of get well tricks
[19:03:34] <mhall119|work> itnet7: you haven't? happens all the time here
[19:03:51] <itnet7> :-P
[19:04:04] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: you're up
[19:04:21] <dantalizing> lies
[19:04:27] <itnet7> hey there beachdaze !
[19:04:28] <mhall119|work> ok, then I'm up
[19:04:40] <itnet7> hold on let me switch the topics
[19:04:46] <dantalizing> i was joking
[19:04:49] <mhall119|work> lol
[19:04:50] <itnet7> nvm
[19:04:52] <itnet7> lol
[19:05:04] <beachdaze> hello itnet7 and all
[19:05:04] <mhall119|work> he's a little slow tonight
[19:05:06] <itnet7> whenever you're ready then dantalizing !
[19:05:06] <dantalizing> so several people have started irc guides for new users
[19:05:10] <mhall119|work> about 60 minutes slow actually
[19:05:42] <dantalizing> people have expressed a desire to join irc, but they're not sure what the protocols and customs are
[19:06:25] <dantalizing> we need some sort of gentle intro to using irc
[19:06:29] <mhall119|work> it was easier when the default IM client properly supported IRC
[19:06:38] <dantalizing> even if its something that says jump right in
[19:06:44] <himuraken> mhall119|work, misses pidgin?
[19:06:52] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: agreed
[19:06:54] <cjohnston> irssi ftw
[19:06:55] <mhall119|work> sometimes....:(
[19:07:03] <crashsystems> you think that the average new user is going to miss the irc commands?
[19:07:05] <himuraken> dantalizing, so a how to guide for which client?
[19:07:09] <itnet7> cjohnston: arguably not for a new person
[19:07:14] <cjohnston> lol
[19:07:16] <cjohnston> I know
[19:07:22] <habanero_joe> as there are several clients
[19:07:25] <jazz> im using xchat tried the pidgin irc but i got ctcp from friggin
[19:07:30] <dantalizing> himuraken: i think specific clients are the least important part
[19:07:33] <himuraken> OK.
[19:07:36] <tiemonster> himuraken: telepathy
[19:07:40] <habanero_joe> lol
[19:07:42] <itnet7> himuraken: we can break it down and create a guide for the most popular ones
[19:07:46] <dantalizing> understanding the irc culture and norms is more important
[19:07:55] <himuraken> ha!
[19:08:01] <himuraken> Understood.
[19:08:02] <mhall119|work> crashsystems: you can't even register a nick without it can you?
[19:08:02] <crashsystems> or the guide could just point to the webcht
[19:08:26] <crashsystems> IMHO the method for registering a nick on freenode is epic fail
[19:08:39] <dantalizing> agreed
[19:08:47] * himuraken forgot how.
[19:08:52] <tiemonster> wait - telepathy doesn't support IRC commands?
[19:09:05] <crashsystems> not most of them. the issue is currently being worked on IIRC
[19:09:11] <tiemonster> fail
[19:09:33] <MichelleQ> so... what's the proposal?
[19:09:38] <tiemonster> so have we officially started the meeting?
[19:09:44] <himuraken> Question, there are numerous intros to IRC etc... Should we re-invent the wheel?
[19:09:46] <dantalizing> i also think we need to reinforce that the channel is family friendly ... we're not usenet circa 1993 where you're gonna get flamed for any misstep
[19:09:47] <himuraken> tiemonster, yes.
[19:09:49] <itnet7> yes at 20:00
[19:09:56] <tiemonster> gotcha
[19:10:01] <himuraken> dantalizing, that is the key difference IMHO on freenode.
[19:10:24] <tiemonster> dantalizing: what's usenet?
[19:10:28] * tiemonster ducks
[19:10:31] <crashsystems> lol
[19:10:33] <himuraken> !
[19:10:51] <crashsystems> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usenet
[19:10:58] <dantalizing> tiemonster: gopher to news.kernel.org
[19:11:02] <tiemonster> lol - forever recorded by the bot
[19:11:08] <habanero_joe> lol
[19:11:11] <himuraken> Whats wrong with http://irchelp.org/
[19:11:12] <himuraken> ?
[19:11:39] <dantalizing> its a big pile of words
[19:11:44] <razertek> hi all
[19:11:45] <crashsystems> besides the fact that whoever made the site has an infatuation with geocities?
[19:11:55] <itnet7> [IDEA] people have expressed a desire to join irc, but they're not sure what the protocols and customs are we need some sort of gentle intro to using irc
[19:12:23] <dantalizing> having 'Hacker Attacks' on the front page isnt exactly inviting
[19:12:43] <himuraken> dantalizing, that site is old... XD
[19:12:46] <crashsystems> so, we are looking for a basic guide that tells you how to get on, and then what the social norms are?
[19:13:02] <MichelleQ> y'all need, essentially, a girl's guide to IRC, then?
[19:13:10] <dantalizing> crashsystems: yes, in my opinion
[19:13:23] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: should we just add to https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat
[19:13:25] <itnet7> MichelleQ: no a beginner's guide
[19:13:27] <mhall119|work> or start something new?
[19:13:31] <itnet7> stop being sexist MichelleQ
[19:13:33] <itnet7> :-P
[19:13:34] <MichelleQ> :P
[19:13:48] <dantalizing> mhall119|work: to me that page is step 2
[19:13:51] <crashsystems> I'd be willing to write something up
[19:13:53] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: I say revise what's there. It's a good guide. It got me up and running in less than an afternoon.
[19:14:15] <MichelleQ> I'll finesse whatever needs to be finessed
[19:14:29] <mhall119|work> I like the "step 2" view, and make page that gets newbies to the point where that page makes sense
[19:14:58] <razertek> so having some basic cmds for irc posted via: !ubottuexample; for the new people?
[19:14:59] <mhall119|work> that way we don't crowd a page that is useful to people who are familiar with IRC
[19:15:03] <itnet7> Sounds good so MichelleQ and crashsystems are going to review the community Docs and finesse them to get a better beginner's guide?
[19:15:08] <mhall119|work> or overwhelm newbies with too much tech
[19:15:17] <MichelleQ> sounds good
[19:15:19] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: so have like an IRC for beginners that links to that page?
[19:15:26] <mhall119|work> yes
[19:15:31] <itnet7> crashsystems: ? is that okay with you?
[19:15:33] <crashsystems> well, I think "finess" vs rewrite would depend upon which would be the least amount of work
[19:15:40] <itnet7> k
[19:15:54] <MichelleQ> I'll lend a hand, either way
[19:16:08] <tiemonster> something like /community/InternetRelayChatForBeginners
[19:16:10] <crashsystems> that IRC page seems like info overload IMHO
[19:16:30] <crashsystems> now would this be just an ubuntu fl page, or for the wider wiki?
[19:16:33] <mhall119|work> crashsystems: which is why I think making a pre- page is ideal
[19:16:36] <MichelleQ> crashsystems: we can extract the best, most informative bits, and rework it into something decent
[19:16:47] <crashsystems> sounds good
[19:16:49] <itnet7> [ACTION] MichelleQ and crashsystems are going to review the community Docs and use them to creat a more relevant beginner's guide
[19:16:57] <tiemonster> or InternetRelayChat101
[19:17:12] <dantalizing> i think -fl specific is better because other loco teams or other ubuntu teams have different rules and customes
[19:17:15] <mhall119|work> I think it can be made generic enough to be useful outside of ubuntu-us-fl
[19:17:26] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: +1
[19:17:30] <MichelleQ> it doesn't have to be one or the other.
[19:17:37] <itnet7> [ACTION] MichelleQ and crashsystems are going to review the community Docs and use them to creat a more relevant beginner's guide
[19:17:43] <tiemonster> MichelleQ: has to be hosted somewhere
[19:17:46] <mhall119|work> most loco teams channels seem to have more or less the same norms
[19:17:51] <mhall119|work> but project pages are different
[19:18:05] <MichelleQ> tiemonster: yes, but it can be generic enough to be hosted in the wider wiki, with a subset of information pertinent to us
[19:18:15] <MichelleQ> things like !coffee
[19:18:28] <tiemonster> MichelleQ: so then it wouldn't be on the -fl section of the wiki
[19:18:49] <MichelleQ> does it matter?
[19:18:56] <tiemonster> things like that could be in the channel topic
[19:19:04] <itnet7> Once you create it, it can be moved anywhere
[19:19:08] <mhall119|work> how about making it -fl specific at first, then extracting the generic parts out to give to the larger community?
[19:19:10] <crashsystems> at the very least I think over 90% of it could be applicable to other ubuntu channels
[19:19:15] <tiemonster> MichelleQ: yes - because -fl specific won't show up as readily in Google results
[19:19:29] <MichelleQ> k, so let's put it on the wider wiki
[19:19:35] <tiemonster> +1
[19:19:36] <himuraken-irssi> crashsystems: especially sinec we are talking protocols and netiquette etc....\
[19:19:43] <MichelleQ> and then link to a specialized -fl info page
[19:19:47] <tiemonster> sure
[19:19:54] <itnet7> You can give <#yourchannelgoeshere> in the instructions and use #ubuntu-us-fl for the real examples
[19:20:05] <MichelleQ> sure
[19:20:22] <habanero_joe> sounds good to me
[19:20:35] <dantalizing> tiemonster: can you modify the bot to count unique nicks that join?
[19:20:44] <itnet7> Okay, if you or crashsystems need input, don't hesitate to ask
[19:20:46] <MichelleQ> crashsystems: we got a handle on this one?
[19:20:51] <tiemonster> dantalizing: for what purpose?
[19:20:52] <crashsystems> yep
[19:21:01] <MichelleQ> I'm good, too
[19:21:08] <dantalizing> tiemonster: we have well over 200 in the florida loco team
[19:21:09] <MichelleQ> so, itnet7, dantalizing, I think we're good to go
[19:21:18] <itnet7> [TOPIC] Anchor House Build Day -- mhall119 2010-02-23 18:29:18
[19:21:20] <dantalizing> yet we probably have 60 or so unique nicks that come
[19:21:31] <tiemonster> dantalizing: would unique IPs be better for that?
[19:21:47] <dantalizing> tiemonster: i'd like to measure if we're making any discernable impact once we get an updated guide
[19:21:53] <dantalizing> tiemonster: sure
[19:22:08] <dantalizing> i'd like to baseline visits here for a while
[19:22:11] <tiemonster> dantalizing: I believe it's already tracking unique nicks
[19:22:12] <mhall119|work> tiemonster: does !seen track joins, or just messages?
[19:22:15] <itnet7> mhall119|work: you're up
[19:22:19] <MichelleQ> we'll need to put a link for the welcome guide up in the topic, too
[19:22:20] <dantalizing> then see if we're actually reaching people
[19:22:27] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: messages
[19:22:27] <mhall119|work> itnet7: I'm waiting for them to finish
[19:22:40] <jazz> my nick name is already registered, im going t have to find a new nick...
[19:22:43] <itnet7> Oh, I thought they pretty much were done sorry
[19:22:51] <dantalizing> sry itnet7
[19:23:02] <mhall119|work> no problem itnet7
[19:23:03] <tiemonster> dantalizing: we'll talk later
[19:23:04] <itnet7> np sorry too
[19:23:13] <dantalizing> tiemonster: cool
[19:23:20] <dantalizing> ok done
[19:23:22] <itnet7> Just trying to keep it flowing is all
[19:23:23] <mhall119|work> I'm going to be quick anyway
[19:23:36] <mhall119|work> ANchor House build is scheduled for this Saturday, but we've only had 3 RSVP
[19:23:44] <mhall119|work> do we need to postpone it to a different weekend?
[19:23:49] <mhall119|work> me+3 isn't gonna cut it
[19:23:55] <dantalizing> i thought it was moved to sunday?
[19:24:01] <himuraken-irssi> mhall119|work: I would like to go but some unavoidable things came up.
[19:24:01] <cjohnston> mhall119|work: I can't make it this saturday. :-(
[19:24:13] <MichelleQ> the 27th
[19:24:15] <mhall119|work> Feb 27th
[19:24:15] <razertek> mhall119|work: anchor house build; got a link?
[19:24:26] <habanero_joe> website says 2/28?
[19:24:30] <MichelleQ> hhm
[19:24:37] <jazz> whats anchor house?
[19:24:38] <himuraken-irssi> meetup.com says 27th.
[19:24:42] <mhall119|work> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12044764/
[19:24:53] <MichelleQ> jazz: transient boys home
[19:24:55] <razertek> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12044764/http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12044764/
[19:24:58] <razertek> sry
[19:25:13] <dantalizing> I will keep everyone abreast of the situation, as new information arises. The new schedule shows Feb. 28th, but that is very, very tentative.
[19:25:20] <habanero_joe> That link shows 2/28 as well
[19:25:22] <mhall119|work> okay, of the people interested in helping, when would be a good weekend in March?
[19:25:41] <MichelleQ> perhaps I can't type
[19:25:44] <MichelleQ> that's entirely possible
[19:25:50] <MichelleQ> it's supposed to be Saturday
[19:25:56] <MichelleQ> whatever date Saturday happens to be
[19:25:59] <mhall119|work> we've had to postpone it a couple times already because the location wasn't ready
[19:26:14] <mhall119|work> I'd rather postpone it again and have more people
[19:26:15] <himuraken-irssi> mhall119|work: 13th sounds good to me/
[19:26:29] <jazz> MichelleQ, ty.
[19:26:37] <cjohnston> mhall119|work: I may be able to do it on the 14th.. or the 27th
[19:26:56] <himuraken-irssi> cjohnston: isnt globaljam on the 27th-28th?
[19:26:56] <itnet7> mhall119|work: I can do my best to be there any weekend in March, just need to know when to save the day!
[19:27:03] <itnet7> That is true
[19:27:14] <mhall119|work> okay, how many people would be able to make Feb. 27th first off
[19:27:15] <MichelleQ> himuraken-irssi: yeah, global jam is that last weekend of March
[19:27:21] <cjohnston> himuraken-irssi: yup.. thats all I have though
[19:27:33] <cjohnston> I'm out of the country the first weekend and the second saturday
[19:27:39] <cjohnston> so thats all i got
[19:27:41] <mhall119|work> oh, fun
[19:27:43] <MichelleQ> I'm hesitant to move it again, tbh
[19:27:43] <himuraken-irssi> cjohnston: gotcha.
[19:28:06] <himuraken-irssi> MichelleQ: I forget, how far is the home from FM?
[19:28:15] <cjohnston> I may be able to drive down leaving here around 1330 on this saturday
[19:28:15] <itnet7> How many people do you think you'll need for the 28th of this month?
[19:28:16] * maxolasersquad is finally has the kids in bed and is now paying attention.
[19:28:19] <MichelleQ> FM?
[19:28:25] <himuraken-irssi> Fort Myers.
[19:28:29] <mhall119|work> it's in Auburndale
[19:28:32] <cjohnston> saturday is the 27th....
[19:28:38] <MichelleQ> himuraken-irssi: couple of hours
[19:28:40] <MichelleQ> at least
[19:28:55] <MichelleQ> itnet7: 27th
[19:28:55] <cjohnston> itnet7: ^
[19:28:59] <itnet7> oh
[19:29:12] <MichelleQ> Honest typing error
[19:29:12] <mhall119|work> itnet7: we have 6 computers that need to be setup and installed, and networking cable to be run
[19:29:20] <mhall119|work> and a content filtering proxy if possible
[19:29:23] <itnet7> Now I see what everyone is saying when I log in to meetup it shows the 28th for me as well
[19:29:31] <MichelleQ> the towers should have ubuntu already installed
[19:29:33] <himuraken-irssi> It is only 3 hours away. I can make that drive no problem if the date works out.
[19:29:39] <habanero_joe> Fort Myers - Auburndale: 2 hours 43 minutes per GoogleMaps
[19:29:40] <itnet7> mhall119|work: what time is the start time?
[19:29:48] <himuraken-irssi> habanero_joe: you in?
[19:29:56] <MichelleQ> ok never mind on the install
[19:30:00] <dantalizing> part of the issue is a conflict with opug
[19:30:02] <MichelleQ> itnet7: 10a
[19:30:03] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: just set up OpenDNS on the router
[19:30:05] <mhall119|work> itnet7: we were planning 10am
[19:30:13] <mhall119|work> tiemonster: that's my other option
[19:30:23] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: way less work
[19:30:27] <MichelleQ> I'd really, really, really rather go ahead and get this done, if at all possible
[19:30:28] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: when is opug?
[19:30:38] <dantalizing> mhall119|work: 27th, 1p
[19:30:39] <tiemonster> dantalizing: yes - first meeting in months
[19:30:45] <himuraken-irssi> Sorry MichelleQ, this weekend is out for me.
[19:30:51] <MichelleQ> himuraken-irssi: k
[19:30:55] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: perfect, it's like 30 minutes away from Orlando, we can be done by 1pm
[19:31:18] <mhall119|work> if we get enough people, we can knock it out in a couple hours I think
[19:31:27] <mhall119|work> I can get over there early and get started
[19:31:45] <mhall119|work> where in Orlando is opug?
[19:31:54] <MichelleQ> mhall119|work: it's up to you.
[19:31:56] <dantalizing> somewhere on orage
[19:32:00] <dantalizing> *orange st
[19:32:07] <dantalizing> camden clubhouse
[19:32:11] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: Camden clubhouse
[19:32:12] <itnet7> mhall119|work: Unfortunately, I can't make it on Saturday
[19:32:14] <tiemonster> ack
[19:33:37] <mhall119|work> ok, google maps says it's 40 minutes
[19:33:47] <mhall119|work> from auburndale to orange street
[19:34:42] <dantalizing> crickets
[19:34:47] <itnet7> lol
[19:34:48] <mhall119|work> yeah...
[19:34:50] <MichelleQ> mhall119|work: do we want to wait until Thursday's appointment before deciding for sure?
[19:35:03] <MichelleQ> I know it's last minute, but
[19:35:19] <itnet7> MichelleQ: mhall119|work I can try to do it any weekend in March except the last one
[19:35:30] <itnet7> They can't switch to Sunday, eh?
[19:35:38] <MichelleQ> itnet7: ok, we'll keep you posted on when
[19:35:43] <mhall119|work> we could if it'll make a difference
[19:35:44] <itnet7> cool thanks,
[19:35:48] <razertek> mhall119|work: is there an address for this place on the site; i just joined =)
[19:35:58] <mhall119|work> razertek: we aren't posting their address
[19:36:03] <mhall119|work> it's a troubled boys home
[19:36:13] <mhall119|work> we'll give it privately to anyone who is coming
[19:36:14] <MichelleQ> Sunday would work, but it'd be after noonish, as they require the boys attend Sunday services
[19:36:18] <mhall119|work> but don't want to publicize it
[19:36:19] <razertek> k i understand
[19:37:02] <mhall119|work> I will call them tomorrow and let them know our situation, and see when in March would work for them if we have to push it back
[19:37:09] <itnet7> Well cjohnston you can do it on sunday?
[19:37:09] <MichelleQ> k
[19:37:13] <itnet7> or is that bad for you?
[19:37:23] <cjohnston> I work sunday..
[19:37:42] <tiemonster> so yes or no? ;-)
[19:37:48] <cjohnston> no
[19:37:50] <tiemonster> j/k
[19:38:19] <itnet7> Well we know the issue we can discuss this more in the channel
[19:38:21] <mhall119|work> [ACTION] mhall119 will call them tomorrow and let them know our situation, and see when in March would work for them if we have to push it back
[19:38:23] <MichelleQ> I'll send out a more date-specific notice on Thursday
[19:38:31] <mhall119|work> what, no action?
[19:38:54] <tiemonster> MootBot: wake up!
[19:39:00] <itnet7> [ACTION] mhall119 will call them tomorrow and let them know our situation, and see when in March would work for them if we have to push it back
[19:39:13] * mhall119|work just doesn't have itnet7's awesomeness
[19:39:15] <crashsystems> MootBot is playing favourites.
[19:39:17] <itnet7> it only does it from the chair
[19:39:25] <tiemonster> darn right it should
[19:39:26] <itnet7> it accepts links though from everyone
[19:39:43] <mhall119|work> okay, that's all for my piecec
[19:39:45] <itnet7> last topic, ready everyone?
[19:39:48] <itnet7> [TOPIC] Lucid Release Parties - maxolasersquad, -- dantrevino 2010-02-10 13:59:52
[19:39:49] <mhall119|work> bah, typing fail
[19:39:53] <jazz> lol @ mootbot
[19:39:59] <tiemonster> yay!
[19:40:35] <MichelleQ> we've talked about hosting a Lucid release party, as Qimo v2 will be released roundabout then, too
[19:40:41] <dantalizing> maxolasersquad: ?
[19:40:55] <tiemonster> pan handle party ftw!
[19:40:59] <MichelleQ> dantalizing: y'all planning one for up north?
[19:41:12] <maxolasersquad> dantalizing: Sorry, had to step away for a second.
[19:41:21] <crashsystems> when is the release?
[19:41:25] <himuraken-irssi> 10.04
[19:41:27] <mhall119|work> 10.04
[19:41:27] * crashsystems should know this by now
[19:41:39] <crashsystems> but what day?
[19:41:44] <mhall119|work> release day
[19:41:45] <himuraken-irssi> ON Lucid
[19:41:53] <itnet7> april 29
[19:41:55] <itnet7> no?
[19:42:00] <mhall119|work> no fun, itnet7
[19:42:01] <dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/LucidReleaseParties
[19:42:19] <tiemonster> itnet7: accepts links from everyone except dantalizing
[19:42:22] <cjohnston> its a thursday
[19:42:23] <cjohnston> i know
[19:42:26] <cjohnston> i know that
[19:42:26] <mhall119|work> can we use loco.ubuntu.com? I needs the real-world testing
[19:42:30] <crashsystems> dantalizing is a wiki bot disguised as a human
[19:42:39] <itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule
[19:42:49] <tiemonster> doesn
[19:42:49] <mhall119|work> maybe it doesn't like https?
[19:42:50] <itnet7> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LucidReleaseSchedule
[19:42:53] <tiemonster> 't like ssl
[19:43:26] <tiemonster> stupid enter key
[19:43:27] <crashsystems> Thursday... is it safe to assume most people will have their parties on saturday, the 1st?
[19:43:45] <tiemonster> no. must be thursday night.
[19:43:50] <maxolasersquad> I'm waiting to hear from Pensacola about what date they want to do it.
[19:43:54] <itnet7> dantalizing: try putting [LINK]
[19:44:00] <dantalizing> crashsystems: i vote for thursday night in gainesville
[19:44:02] <itnet7> see if it takes it from you
[19:44:15] <dantalizing> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/LucidReleaseParties
[19:44:24] <crashsystems> dantalizing: you think thursday would work with the gville crowd?
[19:44:35] <dantalizing> crashsystems: good point
[19:44:41] <tiemonster> college night? I don't know...
[19:45:11] <crashsystems> maybe friday night?
[19:45:19] <dantalizing> sure
[19:45:22] <crashsystems> I'm probably not the best person to guess such things
[19:45:41] <crashsystems> we could get some opinions in #gatorlug
[19:45:41] <dantalizing> anyway ....
[19:45:46] <dantalizing> yes
[19:45:54] <dantalizing> last time we just did the one release party
[19:45:59] <dantalizing> i like lots personally
[19:46:06] <dantalizing> maxolasersquad: is already organizing two
[19:46:10] <maxolasersquad> Aside from me, is anyone else commiting themselves to being the event coordinator in their area?
[19:46:13] <itnet7> I am going to have one over this way, a social one though
[19:46:13] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: there were multiple last cycle
[19:46:23] <MichelleQ> we'll claim Sunday, May 2nd.
[19:46:32] <dantalizing> did we?
[19:46:34] <itnet7> I will put it up on the wiki and on meetup.com as soon as I am sure of the venue
[19:46:36] <crashsystems> itnet7: as opposed to an anti-social release party?
[19:46:41] <dantalizing> i was afk
[19:46:42] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: there was one in Orlando at least
[19:46:54] <mhall119|work> itnet7: loco.ubuntu.com!
[19:46:55] <itnet7> crashsystems: yes, as in a no install troubleshoot perty
[19:46:58] <dantalizing> i also want to do one in gainesville
[19:47:06] <itnet7> s/perty/party/
[19:47:18] <maxolasersquad> If feesable, I may make the Gainseville one.
[19:47:20] <tiemonster> itnet7: I thought that was a play on words
[19:47:24] <itnet7> Probably on the evening of the release
[19:47:24] <dantalizing> cool!
[19:47:26] <itnet7> lol tiemonster
[19:47:36] <dantalizing> tiemonster: yoiu gonna organize jax?
[19:47:48] <dantalizing> or do we need to wake up neotaoistechnopagan?
[19:47:51] <tiemonster> dantalizing: that's like forever away
[19:47:51] <itnet7> Please take pictures and blog about it
[19:48:17] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: is he like some mythical creature you have to awaken with a sacred incantation every 6 months?
[19:48:28] <dantalizing> mhall119|work: pretty much ....
[19:48:30] <tiemonster> mhall119|work: sounds like it
[19:48:46] <dantalizing> lots pictures lotsa blogging
[19:48:50] <MichelleQ> ooooooomnoooooooomnoooom
[19:48:50] <crashsystems> he uses gentoo
[19:48:59] <tiemonster> MichelleQ: lol
[19:49:05] <dantalizing> ricer
[19:49:07] * MichelleQ incants
[19:49:09] <mhall119|work> crashsystems: oh, so he's compiling for 6 months at a time
[19:49:19] <crashsystems> exactly
[19:49:25] <crashsystems> plus one month optimizing flags
[19:49:26] <tiemonster> MichelleQ: I thought that was the sound of you eating smoked meats...
[19:49:35] <MichelleQ> tiemonster: same thing
[19:50:07] <dantalizing> so the secret incantation begins gcc --funroll-loops ...
[19:50:26] <mhall119|work> funroll?
[19:50:38] <crashsystems> not rickroll?
[19:50:44] <mhall119|work> fun roll loops sounts like a breakfast cerial
[19:50:47] <mhall119|work> cereal
[19:50:47] <MichelleQ> not fruitroll?
[19:50:51] <itnet7> [ACTION] Plan Lucid Release Parties, Advertise them wherever possible, Blog, and Plenty of Pictures
[19:51:09] <maxolasersquad> tiemonster: Anyone gonna commit to organizing for their area?
[19:51:29] <maxolasersquad> That wasn't directed at you tiemonster.
[19:51:29] <jazz> sorry i got cut off-line....
[19:51:37] <tiemonster> maxolasersquad: hint hint...
[19:51:40] <mhall119|work> we'll do one in the Lakeland area on May 2nd
[19:51:51] <maxolasersquad> mhall119|work: Could you add it to the wiki?
[19:51:55] <tiemonster> Lakeland is closer than Jax for me
[19:51:55] <jazz> any passing the 118 exit on I-95 on the way to the release parties?
[19:52:03] <mhall119|work> no, I'm gonna add it to loco.ubuntu.com thank you very much
[19:52:06] <tiemonster> I'd have trouble getting a venue, I think
[19:52:22] <crashsystems> I'll help out with gainesville
[19:52:29] <tiemonster> jazz: 118 on I-4?
[19:52:32] <maxolasersquad> mhall119|work: Crazy!
[19:52:36] <dantalizing> maxolasersquad: i'll committ crashsystems to gainesville
[19:52:42] <crashsystems> :P
[19:52:44] <tiemonster> jazz: oh. you said I-95
[19:52:49] <mhall119|work> I'm also gonna add everyone else's to loco.ubuntu.com
[19:52:51] <jazz> tiemonster, hehe yep
[19:53:02] <maxolasersquad> dantalizing: Spoken like a true PM.
[19:53:05] <itnet7> mhall119|work: the thing that's coming soon?
[19:53:34] <mhall119|work> itnet7: it's here now!
[19:53:40] <mhall119|work> it's been here for almost a week
[19:53:53] <tiemonster> jazz: where is that?
[19:53:59] <itnet7> Someone should change the front page
[19:54:19] <maxolasersquad> mhall119|work: Each one we add to loco.ubuntu.com/events should have a similar name. "Tallahassee, Fl Lucid Release Party", "Orlando, Fl Lucid Release Party", etc.
[19:54:51] <mhall119|work> itnet7: change what about it?
[19:55:02] <mhall119|work> maxolasersquad: works for me
[19:55:04] <maxolasersquad> Does one need to be team admin to add to that page.
[19:55:05] <maxolasersquad> ?
[19:55:09] <tiemonster> anything else? I have to go.
[19:55:09] <mhall119|work> yes
[19:55:09] * MichelleQ goes to get a klondike bar
[19:55:26] <dantalizing> Florida Lucid Release Party -
[19:55:28] <dantalizing> ??
[19:55:39] <itnet7> The big Coming Soon! Hyperlink that goes no where
[19:55:43] <dantalizing> lol
[19:55:51] <itnet7> on might think it's referring to the entire thing
[19:56:00] <maxolasersquad> itnet7: It goes to #
[19:56:07] <mhall119|work> itnet7: it's referring to 0.3
[19:56:11] <maxolasersquad> Which is about as important place as there is.
[19:56:29] <mhall119|work> team collaboration and mashups is coming soon
[19:56:31] <dantalizing> i like how they commit to 'various mashups'
[19:56:32] <mhall119|work> events is already there
[19:56:43] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: yeah, I'm not entirely sure what that means
[19:56:49] <dantalizing> can i get a jamendo/l.u.c mashup?
[19:57:04] <itnet7> Oh, crystal clear after explanation
[19:57:05] <mhall119|work> sure
[19:57:05] <tiemonster> SOAP
[19:57:05] <itnet7> thanks
[19:57:13] <mhall119|work> np
[19:57:23] <maxolasersquad> mhall119|work: Could I convince you to add the release party to both locations?
[19:57:48] <dantalizing> +1 both
[19:57:53] <itnet7> mhall119|work: it really should be in both places
[19:58:05] <itnet7> until everyone gets used to going to only the directory
[19:58:08] <dantalizing> how about we add to w.u.c and mhall119|work updates loco.u.c
[19:58:23] <dantalizing> with all of the event data
[19:58:30] <tiemonster> there's a mashup for that
[19:58:37] <tiemonster> new catch phrase
[19:58:41] <dantalizing> +1
[19:58:46] <crashsystems> sounds messy
[19:58:57] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: that'll work
[19:59:21] <mhall119|work> itnet7: [ACTION] that?
[19:59:38] <tiemonster> itnet7: do it do it!!!
[19:59:39] <itnet7> what would be cool is after you add an event to have a moin script generator that would allow you to cut and paste the proper syntax into the wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam Page
[19:59:49] <dantalizing> [ACTION] itnet [ACTION] that
[19:59:50] <itnet7> the dantalizing thing?
[20:00:00] <tiemonster> itnet7: or have it use your OpenID to write the wiki page automatically
[20:00:01] <mhall119|work> itnet7: even cooler would be a moin macro that pulls from the ical or rss
[20:00:16] <itnet7> w.u.c and mhall119|work updates loco.u.c ?
[20:00:19] <mhall119|work> itnet7: the thing about them adding to w.u.c, and me adding to l.u.c
[20:00:25] <dantalizing> itnet7: thats what i had planned for the website
[20:00:38] <dantalizing> we're just gonna pull the l.u.c data for our team
[20:00:57] <dantalizing> and get rid of teh events plugin that currently sucks
[20:01:01] <itnet7> [ACTION] mhall119|work w.u.c updates loco.u.c
[20:01:05] <itnet7> ?
[20:01:15] <mhall119|work> yeah, don't pull the rss yet, it's showing for all teams, I'll put in a fix but canonical IS is sprinting, so it may not be applied right away
[20:01:27] <tiemonster> itnet7: wha?
[20:01:38] <itnet7> tiemonster: mhall119|work will understand
[20:01:57] <tiemonster> whelp. time to go.
[20:02:02] <tiemonster> have a good night all
[20:02:17] <maxolasersquad> It seems kind of dumb that "Add new Team Event" is presented to people who don't actually have permissions to do that.
[20:02:18] <itnet7> well unless anyone has anything else
[20:02:25] <dantalizing> i do
[20:02:29] <maxolasersquad> Who can add events?
[20:02:32] <himuraken-irssi> itnet7: I have one thing
[20:02:47] <itnet7> go ahead dantalizing , then himuraken-irssi
[20:02:48] <dantalizing> just FYI ... Florida team reapproval will happen on 3/12
[20:03:00] <himuraken-irssi> FYI: I wanted to welcome a new member to the LoCo: habanero_joe
[20:03:08] <dantalizing> or rather .. our application for reapproval will happen on 3/12
[20:03:19] <himuraken-irssi> +1 for the SWFL faction.
[20:03:20] <mhall119|work> maxolasersquad: only team admins can add events to l.u.c
[20:03:22] <itnet7> Hey there habanero_joe !!!
[20:03:22] <maxolasersquad> Welcome habanero_joe
[20:03:31] <habanero_joe> Hello all!
[20:03:35] <maxolasersquad> mhall119|work: Thanks. That's what I thought.
[20:03:36] <dantalizing> morning habanero_joe
[20:03:57] <mhall119|work> I have one think to add
[20:03:58] <himuraken-irssi> And another actually, some of the guys were talking about getting with me to do a global Jam in FM/naples, anyone still interested?
[20:03:59] <dantalizing> habanero_joe: stop by often :)
[20:04:10] <habanero_joe> I will
[20:04:13] <himuraken-irssi> I do have a location secured.
[20:04:17] <mhall119|work> all this week I am giving Django lessons in #ubuntu-classroom from 1pm to 2pm
[20:04:26] <itnet7> himuraken-irssi: cool
[20:04:29] <mhall119|work> today was the first day, covering getting an initial Django project going
[20:04:34] <dantalizing> himuraken-irssi: you're talking to govatent, right?
[20:04:42] <himuraken-irssi> dantalizing: Yep that was him.
[20:04:42] <MichelleQ> dantalizing: what else do we need to do for the reapproval?
[20:04:45] <mhall119|work> so if you're interested, you can read the logs and join us tomorrow for creating models
[20:04:52] <himuraken-irssi> There was one other too but a Iforgot his name.
[20:05:13] <itnet7> dantalizing: if you need help on clean up or more links to pictures, and such let us know!
[20:05:16] <dantalizing> MichelleQ: havent looked at the page for a while .. i'll go back and look this weekend ...
[20:05:27] <mhall119|work> http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2010/02/23/%23ubuntu-classroom.html#t18:01 is the start of the class
[20:05:29] <MichelleQ> dantalizing: ok, keep me posted
[20:05:35] <himuraken-irssi> Anyone seen govatent lately?
[20:05:36] <itnet7> The Ubuntu-Be team went last week and they Rocked!
[20:05:36] <dantalizing> MichelleQ: we can also go take a look at the teams that were up for reapproval during the last meeting
[20:05:44] <dantalizing> itnet7: will do
[20:06:07] <dantalizing> itnet7: when does the new lococouncil agenda page get put up?
[20:06:42] <itnet7> dantalizing: not quite sure
[20:06:49] <crashsystems> so is the meeting still going?
[20:06:53] <dantalizing> mhall119|work: have you thought about postig to the mailing list(s) abut the django dojo?
[20:06:53] <mhall119|work> yup
[20:06:57] <itnet7> I can ask tomorrow been out of pocket
[20:07:04] <dantalizing> kk
[20:07:10] <mhall119|work> dantalizing: not yet, I was gonna post it on ubuntu-fl.org to get it on planet too
[20:07:19] <dantalizing> itnet7: i just went to update the agenda yesterday and noticed it was still the 2/12 one
[20:07:26] <itnet7> I am having troubles posting anything on ubuntu-fl.org
[20:07:36] <itnet7> Oh, thanks
[20:07:46] <itnet7> dantalizing: I will make sure it gets updated tomorrow
[20:08:00] <dantalizing> itnet7: you used some outside openid site
[20:08:03] <dantalizing> forget which
[20:08:12] <itnet7> I was able to login
[20:08:25] <himuraken-irssi> afk
[20:08:27] <itnet7> it says my article or whatever is awaiting moderation
[20:08:39] <itnet7> or at least it didd
[20:08:57] <itnet7> the next time I go to do it I will hit you up and we can look at it if you have the time
[20:09:01] <dantalizing> odd ... you should be a pub
[20:09:22] <itnet7> well let me login real quick
[20:09:30] <itnet7> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
