{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Projects ===

* The FloridaTeam is currently planning to <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects-HardyReleaseParty|Party Hardy]]</nowiki> B) on the day Hardy is released and/or a few days to follow.  At the moment we have plans for two parties: Orlando and Miami.

* The FloridaTeam is gearing up to represent at and attend <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-BarcampOrlando| Barcamp Orlando]]</nowiki>.  There will be a day for Developers and another for New Media.  The FloridaTeam will also have a F2F Meeting after the Developer day B-)

* The FloridaTeam will be representing on March 26, 2008 for Document Freedom Day in Orlando.  GavinBaker will be putting the event together.

* The FloridaTeam is gearing up to attend <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-UbuntuLive|Ubuntu Live 2008]]</nowiki> more to come...

* <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects-WebSite|Ubuntu-Florida Website]]</nowiki> coming soon! DanTrevino and ReyAngles are still hard at work getting it ready.  And it is looking great so far.

=== Meetings ===

*** The Floria Team held a <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> on March 16^th^ and discussed the following:

 I. Hardy Release Parties

*** Orlando and Miami

*** pak33m is organizing a release Party in Orlando.
 
*** We decided to make it a social event only, no installfest.
 
*** ZacharyBrown is organizing a release party in Miami, but was unable to attend the meeting
    
*** DanTrevino is still following up to find out when we can place orders for Hardy CDs for all parties.

 I. Document Freedom Day

*** GavinBaker is organizing a Document Freedom Day event in Orlando.

 I. BarCamp Orlando

** BarCamp Orlando is April 5th & 6th.
** We decided to have a face-to-face (F2F) get together after BarCamp at a nearby restaurant. Details are still being worked out,but as more information is available, we'll be posting it to the wiki[4]. Of course, we'll probably be seeing each other around BarCamp too. Everyone is invited to the F2F, even if you can't make it to BarCamp.

 I. Other Meetup

** MikeFeravolo also mentioned that he has a regular meetup scheduled in Orlando, and invites everyone to attend.
    
 I. Other Items

** <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> is going to start a wiki page to track details about those going to Ubuntu Live [6].

 I. Next Meeting

** Next meeting is scheduled for March 30 at 8 PM.

      [0] [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#agenda

      [1] [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/HardyReleaseParty

      [2] [WWW] http://documentfreedom.org/

      [3] [WWW] http://barcamporlando.org/

      [4] [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/BarCampF2F-200804

      [5] [WWW] http://SoftwareFreedom.BIZ

      [6] [WWW] http://www.ubuntulive.com

* The next Florida Team <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> will be March 30^th^ @ 8 pm EST.

=== Florida Team Membership ===

   134

=== Recently Approved Members ===

*** Frogstar98 (frogswurld)
*** Sindacious (outlaw1570)
*** Brad Williamson (bradw)
*** kellyStrickland (kellystr)
*** chuckr (chuckrister)

=== Team Owner ===

   DanTrevino
