{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Party Info ===

* Who - UDS Attendees, Ubuntu Florida Team, and Guests
* What - Classic Horror Film with Refreshments
* When - Wed, 02 Nov. 2011 21:00 (9pm) - Midnight
* Where -  Grand Sierra D, the Plenary room.
* Why - Last years event was such a success, We're doing another one!

For more information, and register to attend (not mandatory, but encouraged) visit the <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/1330/detail/|LoCo Directory here]]</nowiki>.

=== Sign Up Sheet for UDS-P Host Party Needs ===

Pop Corn Machine (which includes Popping Corn)  $100.00

$20 Sponsorship of the event, Any monies and or leftover drinks and will be given to Michelle and Michael Hall for the LoCo Party the following weekend.

=== We have added 15 spots that are up for sponsorship. ===

'''Total so far:''' 

# -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  1. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>  1. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:X-Man]]</nowiki>  1. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:chrisjohnston]]</nowiki>  1. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:n3gbz]]</nowiki>  1. -- 
# -- 
# -- 
# -- 
# -- 
# --
# -- 
# -- 
# -- 
# --

150 x 2 drinks = 300 drinks. 
300 / 24 total number of Cases. 12.5, Round up to 14 Cases.

A case is 24 count in the above estimates. If you'd like to donate any of these items please add your @``SIG@ next to the item you plan to bring.
 
* 3 Cases of Water (Est. $18) - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  * 2 Cases of Coke (Est. $24) - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>  * 2 Cases of Diet Coke (Est. $24) - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>  * 2 Cases of Rootbeer (Est. $24) -
* 2 Cases of Orange Flavored (Est. $24) -
* 2 Cases of Lipton Iced Tea (Est. $24) - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bluebomber]]</nowiki>  * 2 Cases of Sprite or Mountain Dew (Est. $24) -

Total Cost of Drinks based on estimate: $162.00.

Water prices taken from Staples website 5.99 for a 24 Pack
Soda prices take from Staples webiste 5.99 a 12 Pack

If Pepsi or Coke is on sale, or you have a preference of either product, please select that. Please do not purchase generic brands. Place a `@``SIG``@` Next to the Item you plan to bring. We need the items on Monday morning if possible. If you have signed up to bring something on this wiki, and are unable to attend, please let us know as soon as possible, so what we can make other arrangements.

Other things we need to bring:

* Big Coolers for the Sodas to get them cold! - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>  - I'll bring my 3 large coolers
* We might need some napkins and plates in case the venue doesn't provide disposable Pop Corn buckets. - -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>  * -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>  I can pick up napkins and such from Sam's as well

Looking forward to seeing all of you there!!
  
