{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<itnet7> Here is the meeting agenda ! https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings/#Agenda 
<reya276> Morning 
<itnet7> Rollcall? 
* itnet7 here! 
* Michelle_Qimo here 
<crashsystems> /me 
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 is also here-ish, currently fighting with a child 
* JamalFanaian_ here 
<itnet7> he really shouldn't pick on kids 
<Michelle_Qimo> yes, well 
<itnet7> big-ole-meanie 
<Michelle_Qimo> she's fighting with him 
<itnet7> :-P 
* mikepark here 
* pak33m president 
<itnet7> pak33m: ? 
<Michelle_Qimo> really, pak33m, when? 
* ** ChanServ sets mode: +o pak33m 
<JamalFanaian_> :O 
* mhall119 is here 
<mhall119> better than president, he's ops 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "START MEETING" 
<mhall119> need MootBot 
<pak33m> yeah i wanted to add that as an agenda item 
<itnet7> he's just practicing :-) 
<pak33m> [IDEA] we could pretend 
<mhall119> lol 
<itnet7> :-) 
<itnet7> So it looks like your up pak33m ! 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Brainstorm page to propose ideas for the team (talked 
about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams)" 
<JamalFanaian_> wurdd. 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Agenda Item #1 Brainstorm page to propose ideas for 
the team (talked about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams)" 
<pak33m> ah thats better 
<pak33m> ok 
<Michelle_Qimo> ok then 
<pak33m> so you all know that me and itnet7 and the qimo kids went to southeast 
linux fest recently 
<Michelle_Qimo> si senor 
<mhall119> kids? 
<pak33m> during self i attended a birds of a feather (bof) session on inproving 
locos 
<crashsystems> interesting session name 
<pak33m> one of the things we talked about was creating either 1) a team ideas 
page and/or 2) locoteams ideas page 
<mhall119> which? 
<itnet7> crashsystems: you do have to go to some open source conferences ;-P 
* reya276 here 
<pak33m> the page would bsically serve to post ideas about diff things that locs 
are doing 
<mhall119> +1 itnet7 
<mhall119> crashsystems: you can start with ALF 
<pak33m> and this wouuld to help inspire other locos 
<itnet7> Truedat 
<mhall119> can we do that with wordpress? 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: sounds like a fairly simple sort of thing 
<pak33m> i was thinking that we have an ideas page on our wiki 
<reya276> well we could create a section on the Ubuntu FL website 
<pak33m> or even on the locoteams and/or us teams wiki 
<pak33m> reya276: i like that [IDEA} 
<itnet7> Maybe we can do it on the wiki and have it feed ubuntu-fl 
<mhall119> I'm thinking something with the ability to vote +/- and comment 
<pak33m> itnet7: yes 
<reya276> I don't know if people would be able to respond to the RSS feed 
<pak33m> i was also thinking similiar to the ubunti brai nstorm webpage 
<mhall119> they need to integrate brainstorm into launchpad, so each group can 
have their own 
<rankinr> Well, brainstorm is opensource. We could just use that https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brainstorm/Installation 
<JamalFanaian_> pligg kinda supports +/- voting and comments (not sure exactly 
if it applies) but it's coded pretty ugly 
<pak33m> i just wated to see if you all would contribute to at least our team 
wiki and/or website 
<JamalFanaian_> mhall119: +1 
<mhall119> rankinr: sweet! 
<JamalFanaian_> rankinr: oh well there you have it! :) 
<Michelle_Qimo> we'd certainly contribute in any capacity we could 
<itnet7> brainstorm.ubuntu-fl.org For the Win! 
<JamalFanaian_> sounds like a great idea 
<pak33m> this ideas page doesnt have to be all fancy but i wanted to address it 
with you all 
<itnet7> mhall119: that would Seriously Rock!! 
<pak33m> itnet7: i like that [IDEA] 
<crashsystems> could it integrate with WP and/or OpenID/Launchpad logins? 
<JamalFanaian_> crashsystems: i believe not 
<pak33m> itnet7: who could make the brainstorm page happen? 
<JamalFanaian_> crashsystems: i remember being fairly upset with the login 
system in brainstorms 
<pak33m> itnet7: on our website that is 
<itnet7> Well I think I could probably see if Jono thinks he might be able to 
get the Launchpad Idea going 
<itnet7> that mhall119 had 
<mhall119> what what? 
<pak33m> itnet7: could be a item for the locoteams meeting 
<itnet7> 20:11:48 < mhall119> they need to integrate brainstorm into launchpad, 
so each group can have their own 
<mhall119> oh right 
<itnet7> do you often post then forget ? 
<itnet7> :-P 
<Michelle_Qimo> do you want to know? 
<mhall119> I mean, you can already specify a product in brainstorm, so why not 
let that product have it's own and just aggregate into the main brainstorm page 
<itnet7> I think the community would love a community-brainstorm 
<pak33m> now would we use the brainstorm page like ubuntu brainstorm and for 
loco event ideas too? 
<mhall119> itnet7: not just the loco communities, but also the developers and 
projects 
<crashsystems> but is brainstorm comunitization ready? 
* shmolf here 
<pak33m> hey shmolf 
<itnet7> true mhall119 
<itnet7> hey there shmolf !! 
<shmolf> hello there 
<itnet7> Well I think we have a true interest in the first item, want to move on 
pak33m ? 
<itnet7> [NEXT TOPIC] please 
<itnet7> probably not using that correctly :-) 
<pak33m> ok np i will maybe create a separate wiki page for loco events, etc. 
ideas 
<itnet7> Nice! 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Agenda Item #2 Public advocacy events for the team 
(talked about attending the SELF BOF on LoCo teams)" 
<pak33m> ok 
<pak33m> so again whilst at self in the bof 
<pak33m> we talked about public advocacy ideas 
<mhall119> pak33m: we already have events and projects pages 
<mhall119> pak33m: what do you mean by advocacy? 
<pak33m> mhall119: i know im going to sort out the diff there 
<itnet7> Hey there Feravolo 
<Feravolo> hello 
<itnet7> Advocacy is advocating the use of ubuntu 
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, so advocacy as in promotion of open source within the 
outside community 
<Michelle_Qimo> correct? 
<itnet7> yes 
<itnet7> publicly 
<pak33m> like we do alot of team events, etc bug jams and the like but do we do 
anything with he general public to get the word out there 
<itnet7> :-P 
<mhall119> in what way? 
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119: like the youth build day 
<pak33m> like setting up a library or bookstore to invite people to check it out 
<Michelle_Qimo> there are lots of options 
<mhall119> would the youth build day count as advocacy, or are we talking about 
pushing adoption? 
<JamalFanaian_> ah i like that 
<pak33m> and talking to ordinary people, users 
<itnet7> I had several friends from high school ask me about installing Ubuntu 
and learning how to use through Facebook of all places 
<pak33m> the events and all that we have are awesome but i feel like sometimes i 
dont touch normal users alot 
<shmolf> setting up a computer in the street 
<pak33m> hehe touch 
<JamalFanaian_> shmolf: now that's an interesting idea... like a public kiosk 
built on open source technology? 
<pak33m> maybe you all have [IDEA]s for things like this 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: I heard of a group recently who set up a bunch of 
computers at a yard sale of all places 
<pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: yes thats what im talking baout 
<mhall119> Qimo computers at the yard sale, said it helped sell them 
<shmolf> how bout a "geek squad" type team for ubuntu users 
<mhall119> for pay? 
<pak33m> for intance amber from the nc loco said she takes ubuntu to her 
gathering with moms, etc and even th armyafexchange on military posts 
<shmolf> I push ubuntu onto customers at work, then offer to help repair any 
troubles 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: looking at getting into the local Family Fundamentals 
outreach might be a good idea, as well. 
<itnet7> I was thinking of going to a couple of the libraries in depressed areas 
close to me and offering beginning classes 
<shmolf> mhall119: for free 
<pak33m> if anybody has ideas for more public advocay let us all know and maybe 
we can all get involved and/or start up something of our own 
<itnet7> Today, someone called the swapshop (a plce where people call in to by/sell/trade 
things locally) they asked for a laptop or pc for little or no money because 
they are in need 
<Michelle_Qimo> we *really* could take advantage of the library connection I've 
formed in Tampa - he's been asking me who we are and what we (as a loco) do 
<mhall119> I say we hold release parties outside of Best Buys 
<crashsystems> lol 
<itnet7> I was thinking of building here a machine and installing ubuntu for her 
<mhall119> definitely need to get more going with the library 
<pak33m> mhall119: darn spiffy idea 
<mhall119> maybe get a few Ubuntu and/or Qimo computers in there 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: we've got a whole lotta experience with that if you need 
some help 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: I know you do girl! 
<Michelle_Qimo> :-) 
<itnet7> I was going to see if she calls next week and asks again before I 
called in the big guns!! 
<Michelle_Qimo> we might look at Craigslist as an outreach venue, as well 
<itnet7> True! 
<Michelle_Qimo> just as a though 
<pak33m> so in conclusion i wanted to address this as its been on my mind as we 
all do things together to better ubuntu and advocate it but maybe we could do 
some things to rwach the public more too :) 
<itnet7> Too bad we don't have a "Brainstorm" thing to track all of our ideas 
<shmolf> donate a computer to a company for public use 
<itnet7> :-) 
<pak33m> itnet7: har 
<shmolf> like the library, or coffee shop 
<pak33m> shmolf: exactly 
<mhall119> +1 shmolf 
<Michelle_Qimo> churches might be interested 
<JamalFanaian_> itnet7: why don't we set it up? i don't mind helping with 
development if we decide to extend it in any way 
<mhall119> I like the idea of getting them in libraries 
<Michelle_Qimo> also, local abuse shelters - we have Lighthouse here in Lakeland, 
where they rehab women and send them out into the workforce 
<mhall119> especially if we stock the library with a stack of Ubuntu CDs to give 
away 
<itnet7> JamalFanaian_: are you going to the bugjam? on Sunday? 
<JamalFanaian_> itnet7: yeap 
<mikepark> libraries seem like a great place for people to discover ubuntu 
<JamalFanaian_> mikepark: i do agree with that 
<itnet7> cool we can talk about some ideas collectively there 
<pak33m> do you all think that bookstores and the like would allow us to sit in 
with like a table full of cds and computers maybe and talk to people? 
<JamalFanaian_> i mean, you're generally going there to learn anyways 
<JamalFanaian_> itnet7: sounds good :) 
<mhall119> so maybe the "geek squad" can be people who offer to support the 
libraries 
<rankinr> I really don't think so... but it doesn't hurt to ask. :P 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: some of the smaller ones might 
<pak33m> or ubuntugeek squad 
<itnet7> Maybe as a value add we can ask places to give out some cd's 
<mhall119> pak33m: maybe for a release party 
<Michelle_Qimo> the larger companies may have corporate policy to navigate tho 
<pak33m> mhall119: darn spiffy idea 
<mhall119> pak33m: if you help them position Ubuntu/Linux books around you they 
might be more interested 
<Michelle_Qimo> this is true 
<shmolf> how bout some ads referring the website 
<JamalFanaian_> mhall119: great point 
<pak33m> haha yeah 
<shmolf> "ubuntu-fl.org" 
<shmolf> saves on ubuntu geek squad transprtation 
<itnet7> lol 
<pak33m> anybody else have any ideas for public advocacy? 
<JamalFanaian_> shmolf: we could put stickers on cds with ubuntu-fl.org.. then 
have something near the top of the page to advertise to new comers to linux and 
give them a helping hand 
<itnet7> Maybe we can devote a subpage to it for now 
<pak33m> i could create yes add another project to the projects page for ideas 
<pak33m> thats the buzzword 
<Michelle_Qimo> I'm happy to start talking to people and places for loco 
outreach, if I can get my hands on materials 
<pak33m> itnet7: ok 
<Michelle_Qimo> fliers & the like 
<dantalizing> shmolf you going to the jam? 
<itnet7> and lets try to dent ideas to the subpage meaning k.i.s.s. principle 
<pak33m> ready to mmove on then my soup is getting cold 
<mhall119> we could re-spin the Ubuntu liveCD with ubuntu-fl.org as the homepage, 
and pidgin configured with #ubuntu-us-fl 
<itnet7> yes pak33m ~! 
<itnet7> thanks 
<pak33m> itnet7: +1 on denting ideas 
<shmolf> not this weekend, gdfather died. memorial 
<Michelle_Qimo> condolences, shmolf 
<JamalFanaian_> shmolf: sorry to hear that 
<pak33m> maybe we could call it the idears page kimda sounds floridian 
<rankinr> and nice florida backgrounds, with a tropical theme 
<shmolf> thankyou 
<JamalFanaian_> pak33m: :P 
<crashsystems> tropical, hah 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Agenda Item #3 Become more involved in LoCo 
Mentoring as a team -- mhall-lakeland" 
<pak33m> mhall119: its all yours 
<mhall119> I actually don't have much on this since dantalizing isn't around 
<itnet7> we could create an identi.ca subgroup for advocacy... and use the 
wordpress plugin to display them on our page and archive them as well 
<itnet7> mhall119: we could hold that topic until next meeting 
<itnet7> if you think we should wait 
<mhall119> basically there is a process for helping new/young LoCos get started 
<mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Mentors 
<mhall119> dantalizing is already a mentor, but I was thinking maybe we could be 
more involved as a group 
* pak33m is happily helping the alaska team with it atm 
<mhall119> I've been working with the TN team for the past couple of months 
<mhall119> +1 pak33m 
<pak33m> it hasnt been easy so far 
<mhall119> but we all offer different things to this LoCo, so we can all offer 
different things to other LoCos, pak33m can offer things to TN than I can't, etc 
<Michelle_Qimo> how would we facilitate something of that sort, though? 
<pak33m> but i can tell you that its inspiring helping others on a team new/existing 
<Michelle_Qimo> just as a sister loco sort of arrangement? 
<crashsystems> how exactly does one help mentor a new loco? give advice? 
<pak33m> mhall119: maybe this idear could be presented at the next us teams 
meeting 
<mhall119> well right now it's setup for individuals to be mentors, not LoCos 
<mhall119> but I like the idea of a sister LoCo 
<pak33m> in addition to the fl team 
<mhall119> I know we've had people here from Puerto Rico, maybe we can focus on 
them 
<mhall119> pak33m: good idea, when would that be? 
<Michelle_Qimo> seems to me that maybe we should consider honing our own skills 
as a loco in terms of advocacy, recruitment, etc, before we start actively 
tutoring another loco through the process of setting up 
<pak33m> mhall119: i have to find out cos theyre not very good at posting 
mmeeting info until tha last minute 
<Michelle_Qimo> but, a sister loco - a support system between locos and an 
exchanging of ideas, etc. - might be a better option 
<pak33m> i i had tha exp with us teams already 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: I think some of what you said is really true, I would 
like to try to focus a bit on trying to get some of our less active members 
plugged in too 
<mhall119> I like the sister loco idea better, something loco might be easier to 
be physically involved 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: it's a matter of we can't give advice, if we're not 
doing it ourselves, actively. 
<mhall119> itnet7: go kidnap roadmap and bring him to the bugjam 
<pak33m> [IDEA] mhall119: Michelle_Qimo maybe somebody could hold a bof session 
at alf on the subject sinc ethere will be memebers of other locos together 
<dantalizing> mhall119 u gonna go to the jam? 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: We are actually pretty active for a US team 
<mhall119> dantalizing: not planning on it 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: we might be able to hold it, depending on our schedule 
<mhall119> pak33m: you gonna be at ALF? 
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119: if you want to head to the jam, it's ok. 
<pak33m> mhall119: yes 
<pak33m> mhall119: i will be repping our team and the alf dj 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo just took away all excuses see you on Sunday mhall119 ! 
<itnet7> :-) 
<mhall119> lol 
<pak33m> mhall119: Michelle_Qimo and i will be playing lots of veggie tales just 
for you two 
<itnet7> where is roadmap btw? 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: oh.... delightful. 
<JamalFanaian_> what's alf? 
<mhall119> did she mention we're going to see Aerosmith Satuday? 
<Michelle_Qimo> Atlanta Linux Fest 
<itnet7> casting spells no dobut 
<itnet7> OMG 
<Michelle_Qimo> OMG, what? 
<itnet7> I forgot you mentioned that ! 
<shmolf> atlanta linux fest 
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, yes. 
<itnet7> that is great for you guys 
<pak33m> dantalizing: do you have anythign to add to the current topic 
<Michelle_Qimo> Whoo hoo! Aerosmith. 
<JamalFanaian_> Michelle_Qimo: shmolf thanks :) 
<Michelle_Qimo> np 
<pak33m> ready to move on? 
<mhall119> yup 
<itnet7> If dantalizing doesn't have anything else to add sure 
<dantalizing> not in a position to add 
<itnet7> mhall119: asked you a little further up just thought you might have 
some ideas :-) 
<itnet7> that shouldn't have had a colon 
<itnet7> sorry 
<Michelle_Qimo> meh 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Agenda Item #4 BugJam in Orlando on July 12th! -- 
pak33m" 
<itnet7> dantalizing: mhall119 asked you a little further up just thought you 
might have some ideas :-) 
<itnet7> that was what i meant sorry 
<pak33m> so you all know and if you dont now you do 
<dantalizing> shmolf you going to the jam? 
<dantalizing> itnet7 at dinner... 
<pak33m> were having a bug jam this sunday at cup o soul in winter park (or 
orlando if you like) 
<itnet7> oh gotcha 
<mhall119> dantalizing: talk about what you do as a LoCo mentor at the bug jam, 
whether I'm there or not 
<pak33m> its between 2 - 6 pm 
<shmolf> dantalizing: im going to the one after alf 
<itnet7> show of hands on those planning of attending? 
<itnet7> /me 
<dantalizing> on the dl 
* itnet7 will be theree 
<Michelle_Qimo> not I. no sitter 
<pak33m> cup o soul is a coffee/beer/snacks place 
<dantalizing> o/ 
<pak33m> itnet7: sorry 
<itnet7> \o/ dantalizing 
* JamalFanaian_ me 
* pak33m will be there 
<mhall119> probably not 
<itnet7> maddog is going 
<itnet7> haven't asked Lupine 
<itnet7> I will ask him tomorrow at work and add him to the list if he can make 
it 
<pak33m> yay chuck will be there 
<itnet7> pak33m: he's actually looking forward to it so it should be cool 
<Michelle_Qimo> have a good time, everyone 
<pak33m> heres the [LINK] to the page everybody https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/BugJam 
<pak33m> you can rsvp there 
<itnet7> and with him there, he'll buy enough coffee to cover all of us :-) 
<pak33m> itnet7: ahh <3 
<pak33m> [ACTION] chuck to buy all the coffeee 
<itnet7> ROFL 
<pak33m> so 
<itnet7> So it's looking like we'll have some good participation 
<itnet7> ropetin is going to be there I am pretty sure 
<dantalizing> yes 
<itnet7> the rest of miami is slackin though 
<itnet7> :-L 
<itnet7> :-P 
<pak33m> me and chaynie scoped out the place last week and its a smaller place 
but it has a room where we can all gather around atable, plenty of outlets, wifi, 
projector, dvd player and beer 
<rankinr> i'd go if it were in miami... but tampas too far away from here 
<pak33m> and if you all like it which i think you should we can have other 
events and/or reocurring events there 
<itnet7> the bugjam is going to be in orlando on sunday... and I as seriously 
only kidding :-) 
<rankinr> figured, but had to make an excuse. Where did I get tampa from? 
<Michelle_Qimo> Saturday's meetup is in Tampa 
<itnet7> the other meetup is sat 
<rankinr> ah 
<dantalizing> pak33m can you send the setup instructions to the list for those 
not already jamming? 
<pak33m> dantalizing: you mean somrhing similar to this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Bugs 
<dantalizing> do we have a target package? 
<itnet7>  
<dantalizing> pak33m i mean the ssh key and ubuntero instructions 
<pak33m> dantalizing: itnet7 i was thinking we could not hug something or maybe 
but conduct the jam similar to the way we did it atg zoopster place that sat 
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Jams/Bugs/#Asking%20people%20to%20prepare%20for%20the%20Jam 
<dantalizing> ty 
<pak33m> dantalizing: itnet7 i think it would be easier on everybody if we kinda 
followed the Holding the Session section on that page 
<dantalizing> kk 
<pak33m> what you guys think 
<itnet7> You can word it like this: 
<itnet7> if you are comfortable it would helpful for you to go through and do 
your gpg keys and do the ubuntero thing prior to Sunday, but if you don't have 
time or want help people will be there 
<pak33m> itnet7: word 
<pak33m> i can add that to our bug jam page 
<dantalizing> bbl 
<itnet7> Okay.. I will put something together for the ML's 
<pak33m> do we want to hug a package? or do random bugs? or karmic? 
<itnet7> I will try and get it out tomorrow 
<itnet7> I think we should do the same assigning packages 
<itnet7> for most 
<itnet7> how about checking out papercuts 
<itnet7> possibly? 
<pak33m> itnet7: fine [IDEA] 
<itnet7> I think we need to try and see everyone's comfort level 
<pak33m> that would be very cool 
<itnet7> or feel out everyone's comfort level 
<pak33m> yes 
<mhall119> itnet7: didn't they fill the 100 papercuts? 
<itnet7> Not sure, I have been so strapped by work I haven't had much time to 
pay attention 
<mhall119> I know what you mean 
<pak33m> itnet7: i think between you and dantalizing you guys will have 
extension cords,squid 
<itnet7> pak33m: that's why I'm bring Chuck *shhhh* 
* itnet7 doesn't even own a squid 
<pak33m> [ACTION] chuck to bring all electronic equipment 
<itnet7> okay lets discuss the last topic please 
<itnet7> pak33m: +1 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: hang on, we're having a kid crisis 
<itnet7> Oh, gotcha 
<pak33m> anybody else have anything for the bug jam? 
<pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: put on veggie tales 
<itnet7> if everyone doesn't know already... Florida Linux Show has actually 
chosen the Venue 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Agenda Item #4 Florida Linux Show: Orlando, 
promotion and participation -- itnet7" 
<itnet7> It's actually mhall119's topic 
<pak33m> oops sorry 
<itnet7> but I was going to fill in until he can get here 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Agenda Item #4 Florida Linux Show: Orlando, 
promotion and participation -- mhall119" 
<pak33m> kid crisis 
<itnet7> Radssion Resort Orlando-Celebration 
<itnet7> 2900 Parkway Blvd 
<itnet7> Kissimmee, Florida 34747 
<pak33m> i havent had kids for two whole days :) 
<pak33m> itnet7: is it still on october 24^th^ 
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, back 
<mhall119> sorry, child nightmare 
<itnet7> Yes from 8:00 am for whatever reason to 5:00 PM 
<mhall119> itnet7: how much room is there going to be? 
<Michelle_Qimo> holy mackerel, that's early 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: I don't know the specs of the area yet 
<mhall119> the Radssion probably likes it that early, better chance that people 
will stay the night before 
<Michelle_Qimo> true 
<itnet7> I would imagine it's going to be a decent size, I went there for a 
wedding near Christmast last year 
<mhall119> itnet7: will we have rooms for presentations and BOFs? 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: is there anything that needs to be done? organization, 
scheduling, etc? 
<itnet7> mhall119: that will be my first question to Rod the next time I talk to 
him 
<itnet7> Who's holding this topic anyways :-P 
<mhall119> yes 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: Not suer 
<itnet7> not sure 
<itnet7> Let me try and hash out the logistics a bit with Rod 
<itnet7> and once I know then we can better plan 
<mhall119> itnet7: now that we have a place and datetime, can we get flyers to 
start passing around? 
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119: so this is on the agenda. What did you have in mind? 
<pak33m> itnet7: could you confirm with rod about having me do the same thing as 
i did in jax 
<mhall119> I know that dantalizing is now on the board, so I was wondering what 
we could do to promote the show 
<itnet7> pak33m: sure 
<mhall119> I'd like to see a better showing that Jax 
<itnet7> Hold on I am making a list now 
<Michelle_Qimo> this would be a good arena for us to work on advocacy, even if 
we're all just flyering the local Starbucks 
<crashsystems> will http://linuxtracker.org load for anyone else? 
<pak33m> itnet7: iw ill add all [IDEA]s [ACTION]s to the meeting minutes and 
summary 
<itnet7> mhall119: you weren't at the first one 
<mhall119> no, but I was at Jax 
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: yes 
<mhall119> crashsystems: yes 
<pak33m> itnet7: word 
<mhall119> itnet7: how about booth setup, are we going to have backdrops? 
<pak33m> do we have a team booth there? 
<mhall119> itnet7: I wasn't sure if you had a supplier for convention setup 
supplies 
<mhall119> or if you even knew of one that you could use 
<itnet7> I am not sure to tell you the truth 
<itnet7> he said in Jacksonville you had to have the union do everything 
<Michelle_Qimo> should the Fl Loco consider hosting an after party? 
<itnet7> and it was going to be like 3k for just that 
<itnet7> so let me start my question list 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: just let me know if there's anything I can do to help. 
<pak33m> djpak33m would happily volunteer his services for an afterparty 
<mhall119> itnet7: I'll ask around and see what I can come up with for setup 
supplies 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: an afterparty would be awesome 
<Michelle_Qimo> we should form a committee, or some such 
<mhall119> itnet7: what can we do to help promote? Should we be contacting 
potential exhibitors, speakers, etc? 
<mhall119> I'd be happy to put a badge on qimo4kids.com, and if I can get a 
flyer PDF I'll print it out and pass it around 
<itnet7> cool 
<crashsystems> we could get RMS and ESR to arm wrestle. 
<mhall119> crashsystems: no, RMS and Miguel 
<crashsystems> Miguel can take winner 
<itnet7> so, I am going to make an identi.ca group 
<pak33m> itnet7: +1 
<itnet7> and feed it off to twitter and facebook 
<crashsystems> itnet8 
<mhall119> lol 
<itnet7> you guys can help by joining those groups and posting stuff 
<Michelle_Qimo> sure thing 
<itnet7> for one thing 
<pak33m> 10/4 
<mhall119> sure 
<itnet7> mhall119: the thing is that the sponsors are holding off to send their 
investment 
<mhall119> itnet7: I offered dantalizing help with Drupal, how about making 
banners/flyers, etc 
* Michelle_Qimo can make a mean flyer 
<crashsystems> Michelle_Qimo: what software do you use when making flyers? 
<Michelle_Qimo> tee hee 
<itnet7> Banners and flyers are good 
<itnet7> but FLS is not in any position to provide that stuff 
<mhall119> Scribus, of course 
<itnet7> maybe we can see if system76 would be willing to help with the flyers 
<itnet7> we can put their logo up on the site 
<Michelle_Qimo> i can at least put together something that we can stick up on 
the website, to download and print 
<mhall119> itnet7: if we can get a PDF of a flyer, we can print them out 
ourselves 
<itnet7> I can ask Reya if he has time to create one for us 
<mhall119> itnet7: is there any kind of advertising budget? 
<mhall119> I was wondering if there was a possibility to advertise in a linux 
magazine or something 
<itnet7> They are advertising in the linux magazine 
<Michelle_Qimo> well, that's a start 
<itnet7> And they have been 
<mhall119> the? 
<mhall119> cool 
<Michelle_Qimo> so, can we do a loco-wide grass roots advertising campaign? 
<mhall119> hmmm, what would that look like? 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: I am sure we could, but I am not sure it's the right 
thing 
<itnet7> to do 
<Michelle_Qimo> um. 
<Michelle_Qimo> ok. 
<mhall119> I'll post flyers around my office 
<mhall119> is admission going to be free? 
<itnet7> mhall119: you have now hit the 20 question limit, try again tomorrow 
<itnet7> :-) 
<mhall119> I'll just have Michelle_Qimo ask them for me :) 
<Michelle_Qimo> hey now 
<rankinr> i'll post flyers around my town, and campus 
<mhall119> itnet7: I figured you'd catch up 
<Michelle_Qimo> just trying to help ya, itnet7 
<itnet7> I would say we should make flyers with tear offs at the bottom for more 
info 
<mhall119> maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon 
<itnet7> Ubuntu LoCo's have free admission 
<mhall119> how about general audience? 
<pak33m> ill pass out flyers in orlando 
<mhall119> was there an admission charge for Jax? 
<crashsystems> dang, linuxtracker.org is really slow 
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, unless there's something else to discuss, I suggest we move 
on 
<Michelle_Qimo> anything else on the agenda? 
<itnet7> Yes both times and like I said there were between 300 to 400 people at 
the first one 
<itnet7> Yes you can register 
<itnet7> for free 
<mhall119> crashsystems: linuxtracker.org is always slow 
<pak33m> itnet7: have we beat the current topic into the ground? 
<mhall119> pak33m: we didn't stop at ground level :) 
<Michelle_Qimo> sufficiently, yes 
<Michelle_Qimo> basement, if you will. 
<pak33m> itnet7: should we add it to the next meeting agedna and thereafter 
until fls? 
<mhall119> itnet7: if there is anything you need help with let me know, I'd like 
to help out wherever I can 
<pak33m> wait this is mhall119 topic 
<Michelle_Qimo> i volunteer to work on the afterparty, if we want one 
<mhall119> pak33m: not really, no 
<Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: can we remind everyone of Tampa's meetup on Sat? 
<pak33m> hey Michelle_Qimo 
<pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: yes 
<mhall119> he's been here 
<mhall119> she's been here 
* mhall119 missed the 's' key 
<Michelle_Qimo> So... for anyone still paying attention - July Tampa meet up on 
Saturday 
<mhall119> please RSVP 
<Michelle_Qimo> 10:30 AM, Jimmie B. Keel Library 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Open Mic 1,2,1,2" 
<mhall119> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10711866/ 
<rankinr> whoever was gonna work with the brainstorm thing, if ya need help, I'd 
like to help out with it 
<Michelle_Qimo> we're finalizing plans for the at-risk youth build day in August 
<Michelle_Qimo> please come. please bring friends and relations, etc. 
<mhall119> we had plenty of power outlets and free wifi there, it was a good 
location 
<Michelle_Qimo> that's all I've got on that 
<mhall119> itnet7: are you coming again to the Tampa meetup? 
<pak33m> itnet7: do you think that we could use https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ScribesTeam/MootBot 
in here for meeting 
<pak33m> s 
<itnet7> mhall119: I wanted to, what time are you planning on ending it? 
<itnet7> pak33m: Yes 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: noonish 
<itnet7> mhall119 and I were checking that out 
<pak33m> itnet7: i can get that hooked up 
<itnet7> pak33m: please do that would be Rockin! 
<mhall119> pak33m: I think we had to request it from someone or something like 
that 
<mhall119> if you can do that, that would be awesome 
<Michelle_Qimo> got some new loco members coming Saturday. Come meet 'em 
<Michelle_Qimo> ! 
<pak33m> itnet7: iw ill add it as an agenda item for next meeting to talk over 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: what time is it planned to be over? 
<mhall119> well, new meetup members, I'm not sure they use Ubuntu 
<pak33m> mhall119: got it all taken care of 
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: noon-or-so 
<itnet7> pak33m: we have already discussed it, just try and see if you can get 
it for us 
<itnet7> :-) 
<mhall119> itnet7: noonish 
<pak33m> mhall119: yesy the scribes team 
<mhall119> but you have no obligation to stay any longer than you want 
<pak33m> itnet7: np 
<pak33m> itnet7: i will keep you posted 
<itnet7> oh 
<itnet7> I asked that already 
<itnet7> I meant to say start 
<Michelle_Qimo> lol, its ok 
<Michelle_Qimo> start - 10;00-ish 
<mhall119> 10:30 
<Michelle_Qimo> when you get there 
<Michelle_Qimo> ;-) 
* itnet7 is trying to juggle two having to pee dogs, A phone call for my wife 
this 
<mhall119> again, though, you have no obligation to be on time :) 
<itnet7> I will definitely try my best to be there 
<itnet7> send me a phone number off line and I will call you if I can't make it 
at the last minute 
<mhall119> cool 
<Michelle_Qimo> will do 
<pak33m> itnet7: i added a tasque to get mootbot to my mono-based todo 
application 
<itnet7> pak33m: you're such a fanboy 
<itnet7> :-P 
* Michelle_Qimo thinks I see Roadmap on America's Got Talent. 
<pak33m> ok i meant that i used a mono-based app to add a task to get mootbot - 
messed that one up didnt i 
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: LOL 
<mhall119> mootbot is mono? 
<itnet7> ROFL 
<itnet7> no 
* pak33m just wanted to "start the fire" 
<itnet7> his task app 
<mhall119> no no, that's a ninja, not a wizard 
<pak33m> hehe that was for Michelle_Qimo 
<itnet7> we need to rebrand you dj-kindle 
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, technicality 
<pak33m> no tasque is based on mono and a novell app to boot 
<pak33m> no pun there 
<pak33m> or djmono 
<pak33m> maybe for fls i can be dj monolover 
<mhall119> DJ Patent-Trap 
<Michelle_Qimo> dj jazz hands 
<Michelle_Qimo> :-D 
<pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i like that one 
<itnet7> teehee 
<pak33m> anybody else with open mic stuff? 
<pak33m> ok good 
<Michelle_Qimo> lol 
<mhall119> a priest a rabbi and a ninja walk into a bar.. 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "Next meeting" 
<Michelle_Qimo> boo 
* Michelle_Qimo throws tomato 
<pak33m> july 21? 
<pak33m> not that werenot going to see each other before then 
<pak33m> and chuck too 
<Michelle_Qimo> july 21st it is 
* ** pak33m changes topic to "END MEETING" 
</pre>
