{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
<itnet7> okay, so everyone want to do a show of hands?
* itnet7 here
* roadmap here
* jamesrfla is here
* chaynie here
<NTTP> me is here
* NTTP is here
* crashsystems mostly here.
<roadmap> If i get quiet I'll be grabbing a quick snack, but I should be here the entire time.
<jamesrfla> yeah dantalizing I might go to the QuinnCo Build Day or wait for the next one
<crashsystems> minus being verbs
* dantalizing wants a 1 tb hd
<ropetin> Ici!
<itnet7> cool roadmap
* crashsystems pats the 1TB hd next to him
<dantalizing> ropetin: you lied ... you said you were just gonna read the scrollback
<mhall119> evening
* ropetin points to the 12 TB SAN in the corner of the room and laughs
<mhall119> woo hoo, just made it for the meeting!
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
* crashsystems wonders what one does with 12TB
<ropetin> dantalizing: I may disappear soon, who knows
<itnet7> Hey there mhall119!!
<itnet7> I am not sure who to give the floor to, since they didn't add their sig to the frist two agenda items
<jamesrfla> crashsystems: tons of movies, music and high res phots
<dantalizing> itnet7: i'm also in the #ubuntu-us meeting, so i may lag a few secs
<itnet7> cool
<dantalizing> itnet7: dcabot added the first 2 agenda items
<crashsystems> wiki history ftw
<itnet7> okay well he's not here atm :-(
<ropetin> crashsystems: we use it to store network captures
<roadmap> Should we discuss them without him?
<mhall119> zoopster back in the states yet?
<roadmap> I think point #1 is really good unless sponsership of release parties is doing well enough.
<zoopster> yea
<mhall119> how was UDS?
<itnet7> UDS starts may23
<mhall119> oh
<zoopster> UDS is in may...I was at the Openbravo World Conference
<mhall119> then why were you in Spain?
<mhall119> oh
<itnet7> roadmap: do you have any ideas?
<jamesrfla> open discussion?
<roadmap> Well I don't know the current situation - I was hoping for a brief overview.
<itnet7> It's hard to get sponsorship, since we are not a not for profit
<roadmap> I'm fairly new to the #ubunut-us-fl scene, so I'm lagging beind in terms of how things work entirely.
<mhall119> sponsorship for what?
<crashsystems> is the LoCo an actual registered 501c3?
<itnet7> So not really sure what the incentive would be
<ropetin> itnet7: you mean people don't want to give it, or legally its hard?
<roadmap> ropetin: I think he meant the first one.
<itnet7> No... loco's are not permitted to do that
<itnet7> the 501c3 thing
<ropetin> So really we can't accept money, rather have space donated, or signs donated, or whatever?
<mhall119> you can accept money, it's just not tax deductible to the donor
<roadmap> I've heard discussions of taking money so I'd think it is possible we can.
<dantalizing> we accepted a few free banners from system76
<itnet7> Well we can, but we can't at the moment give any sponsors tax deductable receipts
<roadmap> Ah.
<roadmap> Does Canonical plan on doing anything about that? Or is it basically a LoCo free for all?
<ropetin> So what do we actually need?
<mhall119> how about having a Best Buy host release parties, anyone think they'd be interested?
<ropetin> mhall119: Nooooooooo!
<ropetin> :D
<roadmap> I'm not a best buy fan. I do know of some local computer venues in the Orlando area. And there are always fairgrounds with computer trade shows going on...
<roadmap> You can hit up some venues there and see if they'd be interested.
<jamesrfla> +1 roadmap and ropetin
<ropetin> Somehow Best Buy and the Linux idea don't seem to gel
<jamesrfla> ropetin: I think Microsoft and best buy are together or something
<NTTP> Wouldn't it be easier to set up a personal 501C3 and have THAT sponsor all the LoCo events?
<crashsystems> To play devils advocate, what would be the goal of such a sponsorship, and what would it archive?
<mhall119> ropetin: if we start hosting release parties there, it might
<roadmap> NTTP: Good idea.
<itnet7> I am going to check on somethings during/after UDS to find out if there is another way other loco's are dealing with Donations
<crashsystems> If there is a willing 501c3, donated funds could be channeled through that.
<roadmap> crashsystems: Most likely they would help us by providing space for LoCo events and perhaps demonstration computers to show off what Linux can be.
<itnet7> The only problem with a 501c3 is the requirement for boards, etc.
<roadmap> can be/can do
<mhall119> QuinnCo is not net a 501c3, or I'd say we can do it
<crashsystems> and the IRS staring down at you at every moment
<mhall119> s/not net/not yet/
<roadmap> Think about it, A local computer malefactor could let us borrow four or five PCs with Ubuntu on it, show off what they can do, and they in turn get the advertising for the computers.
<roadmap> malefactor?
<itnet7> Well up to this point, we have been able to do a lot without too much support
<roadmap> The hell was my spellcheck doing
<mhall119> like a benofactor, only evil
<mhall119> like Best Buy
<MRCeltic> lol
<roadmap> BestBuy will install linux for you for $169. Go geek squad.
<mhall119> really?
<roadmap> I think we'd be hurting their business by giving away an OS they sell and offer to install for a hefty fee
<roadmap> They wouldn't want that.
<mhall119> we'll just say we won't support it
<ropetin> I doubt they support it
<roadmap> They charge $150+ for installation.
<MRCeltic> hmm... how much they charge an hour $100
<ropetin> Local businesses are the place to go if you ask me. Mom and Pop computer stores, comic stores, book stores
<roadmap> :) we should get back on topic
<itnet7> Anyways, I am thinking since dcabot put up this topic and the next set of release parties aren't going to be for another six months this can be hashed out at a later time
<roadmap> I agree with ropetin on that
<MRCeltic> Hmm....where would this event be hosted?
<ropetin> Coffee shops, cafes
<mhall119> they'll support it like they do Windows, format and re-install
<roadmap> With places like Walmart and Bestbuy competing against the local stores, the local stores may be more inclined to give us what we want in exchange for the advertising
<itnet7> MRCeltic: which event? the release parties?
<mhall119> yeah, but local stores would be more space limited
<roadmap> Especially if we draw people to their location
<jamesrfla> Best Buy Geek squad. they don't know how to do stuff well down here in Ft. Myers
<ropetin> mhall119: big enough through I reckon
<mhall119> jamesrfla: they don't know how to do stuff anywhere
<roadmap> jamesrfla: We could go all day about the horrors of geek squad. Then we wouldn't get anything done today though :).
<MRCeltic> lol
<mhall119> what are the requirements for a release party? do we need somewhere we can bring or buy food and drinks?
<MRCeltic> Ok since this is my first actual meeting where's everyone near? I'm in the New Smynra Beach Area
<jamesrfla> yeah I have had 2 computers that people sent to best buy to fix and either they couldn't fix it or they screwed their computer up more. The people hired my boss and I had to fix them
<roadmap> Orlando, Namely close to downtown.
<itnet7> MRCeltic: Welcome Aboard, Melbourne here...
<dantalizing> Ok , best buy service and charges suck, and is kinda off topic at the moment
<roadmap> Although I missed barcamp. :(
<roadmap> agreed dantalizing
<ropetin> +1 dantalizing
<itnet7> Anyways, I am thinking since dcabot put up this topic and the next set of release parties aren't going to be for another six months this can be hashed out at a later time
<jamesrfla> yeah sorry about the offtopic
<dantalizing> +1 itnet7
<itnet7> next topic
<MRCeltic> I work for a local computer shop in New Smyrna Beach so this could be something to discuss
<mhall119> +1 procrastinate
<dantalizing> nice mhall119
<dantalizing> nice MRCeltic
<roadmap> itnet7: as far as the wiki shows there are only two parties planned and a few in progress. Unless something has changed since then, shouldn't this be discussed?
* itnet7 loves procrastination
<roadmap> Maybe its three parties.
<mhall119> +1 roadmap,I still want to have a tampa release party
<ropetin> Who is leading the Miami party?
<roadmap> I want to see an Orlando release party (Although I'll settle for going to just a tampa party)
<itnet7> time out
<dantalizing> are we on to release parties itnet7?
<ropetin> :D
<itnet7> first tampa
<willowdale> what happens at a release party?
<mhall119> I know zoopster hasn't been available to find a locale
<itnet7> zoopster has some serious demands on his time and is unable to host for tampa, mhall119 is there a chance you can get a place?
<jamesrfla> maybe at a different time and date?
<mhall119> itnet7: I'm in Lakeland, so I'm not real familiar with the venues available in Tampa
<MRCeltic> brb getting on pidgin
<roadmap> I have a sister in Tampa
<dantalizing> at worst, it might be possible for one of us to contact jchristophers, where the normal Tampa meetup is
<itnet7> Oh... my bad
<roadmap> She goes to USF, maybe I can ask her?
<itnet7> Yeah good idea dantalizing
<mhall119> I'd be happy to help someone in Tampa line something up, I just don't think I'd be good as the lead
<dantalizing> itnet7: i can try to contact dcabot also
<roadmap> I could get some ideas/locations from her and we could contact them.
<mhall119> yeah, JChristophers is a good default, it'd have to be a morning
<dantalizing> he seemed eager to help out
<roadmap> Shes an Ubuntu user. I think she'd be willing to go :).
<itnet7> he is from tampa right?
<dantalizing> itnet7: yes
<pIrAtA-nIbO_G1> late but here...... hi again
<itnet7> Well, we need try and contact dcabot, and see if we can get at least the small room at jchristophers
<mhall119> brb, bed time story time for the kids
<itnet7> I wonder how busy they are for lunchtime
<dantalizing> i will take care of dcabot
<itnet7> Okay.
<roadmap> What about the other non-finalized parties?
<itnet7> As soon as we here from dcabot we can contact J.Christophers
<itnet7> I am going to attend Tampa
<dantalizing> itnet7: shwall we set a deadline of thursday?
<dantalizing> for dcabot?
<jamesrfla> yeah maybe sugest a different time/date if you guys can
<itnet7> jamesrfla: I understand why you are asking, but it might have to be that day
<itnet7> now on to Orlando
<jamesrfla> NP there is always the next one
<itnet7> Pak33m, has been really busy with work and family and normally he is able to make arrangements for us to meet-up
<itnet7> for release parties
<roadmap> Do you think he will be able to come through? Or should we wait to hear from him?
<dantalizing> as of last week, he said he was gonna set something up
<dantalizing> i havent tried to talk to him since then
<itnet7> I was hoping that Maybe we can help him buy contacting the Panera Bread near Dixie Stampede
<itnet7> and arranging it on the day he suggested
<crashsystems> just don't use tinyurl there
<itnet7> I can call him to let him know
<dantalizing> roadmap: are you volunteering if pak33m is unable to help? :)
<itnet7> They have a room in the back that has a door we can close, and have some privacy as a group, and their wireless is decent
<roadmap> dantalizing: I would be curious to know how he normally goes about it. Simply because I wouldn't have no idea where to begin on organizing a meetup.
<roadmap> dantalizing: I'd be willing to help though, whatever the case.
<itnet7> this is the first time we have tried to hit sooo many cities
<itnet7> so this disorganization is our growing pains
<MRCeltic> lol
<dantalizing> hold on. we're not disorganized
<dantalizing> we just have people who have been busy
<crashsystems> as far as pain, I currently have stomach acid.
<itnet7> that was my dog taking over the keyboard, down max
<dantalizing> ideally we'd have locations finalized by now, but we're still ok
<roadmap> a recession + family + work will do that to you.
<itnet7> take some tums crash
<itnet7> I have some ideas on how I would like the team to handle future release parties, but that is off topic for now
<roadmap> I think that would make a great discussion for another meeting.
<crashsystems> itnet7, could you send that in an email post-meeting.
<MRCeltic> I'm new and as this moment i don't think there are any parties planned for my area
<roadmap> MRCeltic: what party would you be considering attending outside of your area?
<jamesrfla> MRCeltic: what part? You might have to drive
<MRCeltic> I'm about 20 mins south of Daytona Beach
<itnet7> Yes, crashsystems
<dantalizing> lets hold off on the karmic relese party planning/strategy until at least after jaunty is released
<NTTP> I am in Saint Augustine - Come on up here
<itnet7> I wasn't trying to bring it up
<itnet7> still
<MRCeltic> No License so i have to arrange for one of my buddies to join in on the ride
<NTTP> the more the better
<MRCeltic> aggreed
<itnet7> MRCeltic: if you live off of 95 or close, we might be able to pick you up on the way to st. augustine and Gainesville
<itnet7> but it's going to be late night back
<crashsystems> Gainesville ++
<MRCeltic> I've been using Ubuntu since Edgy and this is the first time i decided to join in to the teams
<mhall119> itnet7: you should make a Wiki page for release parties, to include what we do, what we need in terms of venues (food/drink allowed, etc)
<MRCeltic> You know where New Smyrna Beach is?
<MRCeltic> or Edgewater
<NTTP> Jaunty + BYOB = apt-get install beer!
<itnet7> mhall119: hold on a second, cloning myself now :-P
<MRCeltic> lol
<mhall119> NTTP: but is it free as in..wait..
<NTTP> rofl
<mhall119> itnet7: you should have your clone do the cloning
<itnet7> lol
<NTTP> mhall119: then you get transcription errors
<itnet7> i don't trust my clone with cloining my clones
<mhall119> I get them anyway
<mhall119> itnet7: don't worry, he's the original
<crashsystems> this talk of cloning reminds me of http://www.feedbooks.com/book/3511.pdf?size=A4 (PDF warning)
<roadmap> Hm, shouldn't we move back to the agenda?
<itnet7> roadmap: we're counting on you okay?
<mhall119> this is more fun
<itnet7> Melbourne/Rockledge I have moved the date back to June 6th
<roadmap> itnet7: That isn't the smartest move in the world.
<itnet7> roadmap: I have faith
<itnet7> :-)
<roadmap> itnet7: faith for what? I'
<jamesrfla> *cough*
<itnet7> Okay that brings us to Miami
<ropetin> Miami?
<dantalizing> so we have an organizer that I heard from 2 days ago
<itnet7> Ropetin any other compadres here from Miami right now?
<ropetin> Not that I know of :(
<dantalizing> tenatively the idea is to do a social thing at a pizza place around lunch time on the 9th
<dantalizing> i dont know the name of the place
<ropetin> That works for me, I start work at 2pm in Miam
<ropetin> i
<ropetin> Maybe could push it back
<itnet7> ropetin: what push back work?
<itnet7> ropetin: what push back work?
<ropetin> yeah, work sorry
<itnet7> So, I am planning on heading down to Miami...
<itnet7> to try and help out
<ropetin> Anything I can do from here, just let me know
<itnet7> dantalizing: who is the guy from Miami?
<itnet7> that said he would get the pizza place?
<dantalizing> Raphael Yves Sabbat
<itnet7> cool
<dantalizing> i just sent him another email
<dantalizing> ropetin: can you get a location to host at?
<ropetin> What kind of place? Coffee shop?
<itnet7> hv2 p
<dantalizing> anyplace they'll let people set and geek
<dantalizing> *sit
<ropetin> Hehhe, ok, I'll check around and let you know by lunch tomorrow
<crashsystems> coffee is always a plus
<maxolase1squad> I'm here btw, but have to get kids ready for bed.
<dantalizing> ropetin: we'll give this other pizza idea until Thursday
<itnet7> Nice ropetin !!! thanks
<jamesrfla> well GTG all night
<dantalizing> later jamesrfla
<itnet7> gnight jamesrfla
<ropetin> OK, I'll see what I Can find anyway
<MRCeltic> night james
<dantalizing> thx ropetin
<jamesrfla> night MRCeltic
<itnet7> that would be a big help
<MRCeltic> dantalizing do you have a link to what towns the meetings are gonna be held at this point?
<itnet7> tallahasee, Dan you said your going to that one?
<dantalizing> MRCeltic: @unaffiliated/jamesrfla) has left #ubuntu-us-fl ???
<dantalizing> doh
<MRCeltic> lol
<dantalizing> MRCeltic: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties
<MRCeltic> thank you
<dantalizing> itnet7: yes, i am going to Tallahassee
<MRCeltic> hmm...nothing in the Daytona area
<dantalizing> MRCeltic: st. augustine is right up the road!
<itnet7> MRCeltic: the closest one to you is St. Augustine. Lupine, Maddog_2009, and I will be driving up 95 to St. Augustine. We can give you a ride
<MRCeltic> yea there are 3 to choose from Orlando, St Augustine and Melbourne
<itnet7> but we aren't coming straight back
<itnet7> at 3:00
<itnet7> we're heading to gainesville
<itnet7> so we're doing both
<mhall119> I put up a template Wiki page: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/ReleasePartyPlanning Everyone can start dumping their ideas in there to get ready for Karmic
<NTTP> *yeowch* that's going to be a late nite.
<mhall119> not itnet7 doesn't have to clone himself
<dantalizing> people could crash at my place, but the in-laws are flying in that night :(
<MRCeltic> itnet7 so you are going to the st augustine and gainsville meets?
<itnet7> yes
<MRCeltic> hmm... that would be worth the trip
<itnet7> I have a honda oddysey
<MRCeltic> :-D
<itnet7> so plenty of room
<NTTP> 12pm to 6pm - and I'll most likely be there early
<NTTP> BTW - I'd like to get an opinion
<NTTP> Should I have just install CDs, or should I bring along a local repo server?
<MRCeltic> so are st augus and gainsville set for sat still?
<itnet7> MRCeltic: yes
<MRCeltic> ok
<MRCeltic> Depends on how many systems really
<itnet7> NTTP: I would bring flash drives, and a local repo server, unless you don't have time, then just USB drives. bring some blank CD's and make CD's as you come across older machines that won't boot from USB
<NTTP> I can slap together a system to do local installs from and I have a 24 port 10/100 hub
<crashsystems> alternate CDs work great for upgrades
<itnet7> NTTP: cool!!
<NTTP> bah - I usually do a netboot cd/usb and then load from local
<mhall119> how do you setup a local repo server?
<NTTP> apt-mirror
<mhall119> hmm, gotta investigate that for my build day
<NTTP> lemme see if I can find the howto - one sec
<dantalizing> i was gonna do the same for gainesville
<itnet7> do you have enought time to mirror the whole repo?
<crashsystems> how many GB is that?
<NTTP> http://www.howtoforge.com/local_debian_ubuntu_mirror
<itnet7> 13 or so it used to be
<crashsystems> thats not too bad
<NTTP> depends on the branch I guess. I just dropped the entire gutsy branch and got back 20GB
<NTTP> I have hardy, intrepid, and now jaunty, as well as debian Lenny
<itnet7> oh...if you do everything it's bigger
<itnet7> http://www.howtoforge.com/local_debian_ubuntu_mirror
<itnet7> lol
<NTTP> I only get the i386 branch at the moment. One day I will make the switch. My Gentoo is 64bit though....
<itnet7> sorry NTTP didn't mean to paste same link
<mhall119> thanks for the link though
<NTTP> itnet7: salright
<NTTP> grabbing jaunty a few days ago took 14GB - went to bed and done in the AM
<itnet7> Nice!
<MRCeltic> yea ill be messing with that tomorrow at work
<MRCeltic> :-D
<NTTP> so jigdo is my friend
<roadmap> I've considered that :).
<crashsystems> can it be downloaded via bittorrent?
<NTTP> it saves *so* much time
<mhall119> are we on agenda item #4 now?
<roadmap> I don't have enough machines running ubuntu to deem worthy of having a mirror
<NTTP> crashsystems: jigdo is faster IMHO, but YMMV
<itnet7> mhall119: almost
<NTTP> I have some spares, and an empty 200GB HDD
<MRCeltic> where is the agenda posted?
<mhall119> zoopster: I'm working off Fowler and 30th these days, so if you want some help looking around there for a venue I can try and help
<mhall119> MRCeltic: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
<mhall119> twice itnet7!
<MRCeltic> mhall119 thank you
<cpare> Hello all - Checking in from Orlando...
<itnet7> hey there cpare!
<dantalizing> morning cpare
<cpare> good evening itnet7
<itnet7> I guess we could move on...
<ropetin> Yes, lets
<NTTP> .org?
* ropetin is only 25% here anyway
<dantalizing> morning igorgue
<igorgue> hey
<igorgue> morning
<crashsystems> afk
<cpare> moving on...
<mhall119> get on with it!
<MRCeltic> lol
<itnet7> Will fourth topic is open discussion
<itnet7> so?
<itnet7> anyone have anything?
<roadmap> I believe we skipped #2 :)
<NTTP> meh
<roadmap> Although whoever added it isnt here for the meeting anyways
<mhall119> I'm hosting a build day in Lakeland, as part of QuinnCo, it's scheduled for May the 23rd
<MRCeltic> yes we did skip 2
<NTTP> new beer from Sam Adams...
<mhall119> if anyone is interested in attending, email me at Michael@qimo4kids.com and I'll give you directions
<NTTP> 2) Untangle
<roadmap> I actually dont know what #2 is...
<itnet7> Please try and help out Quinnco if possible!!! Michael and Michelle are doing great things
<NTTP> nuff said
<roadmap> I just know we skipped it.
<MRCeltic> 2: Develop a list of remote support softwares that will work across firewalls and on linux.
<mhall119> Also, we have a computer group near Pensacola that is going to start installing Qimo on computers as part of a collaboration with their 4-h club!
<roadmap> MRCeltic: Thanks
<roadmap> Well, I guess that would be useful.
<NTTP> "II. Develop a list of remote support softwares that will work across firewalls and on linux. "
<MRCeltic> yea i aint got a clue on that subject
<MRCeltic> lol
<dantalizing> mhall119: can you make sure they know about the Pensacola relesae party?
<roadmap> Without some kind of linux trickery or sorcery.
<roadmap> We could get technical and setup a reverse ssh setup.
<itnet7> roadmap: that was put on the agenda to go along with DoctorMo's request to the mailing lists I'm sure
<mhall119> dantalizing: sure, I'm meeting with one of them for dinner Thursday, I'll try and remember to bring it up
<dantalizing> mhall119: thanks
<NTTP> Is this something that someone wants in a default install, pre-configured?
<itnet7> dantalizing: isn't thursday the night of the release party in pensacola?
<mhall119> also, did you guys know that someone is selling a ClassmatePC based computer with Edubuntu pre-installed?
<ropetin> NTTP: presumably someone wants something like the Windows Remote Assistance Request thing
<mhall119> ropetin: like reverse VNC?
<MRCeltic> hmm...
<dantalizing> itnet7: yes
<roadmap> I imagine its to show that if you switch Grandma to linux, or put her on it, she can call you and you can fix the thing
<mhall119> dang, I guess he won't be going to that
<NTTP> ropetin: I'll look into it. Already have a setup for my kids' pcs. but that's edubuntu
<ropetin> K
<roadmap> without having to tell her to go to 192.168.1.1 and opening port 55135 and configuring VNC.
<ropetin> :D
<NTTP> roadmap: good point.
<MRCeltic> roadmap: there is an easy way to do it
<ropetin> The smart Grandson would enable port forwarding to port 22 beforehand!
<MRCeltic> its part of VNC
<itnet7> I was going to test spreed to see if can do it
<itnet7> if it can do it
<mhall119> how does the Microsoft thing work through a NATing router?
<mhall119> uPnP?
<dantalizing> probably
<MRCeltic> althought not sure about firewall and all, but i know that it works behind a firewall router
<roadmap> ropetin: and then have grandma get port scanned by botnets and shoddy password cracking attempts?
<NTTP> I know that Untangle has the ability if you're the admin...
<roadmap> ropetin: :) the smart grandson would put it on a much higher port.
<itnet7> :-)
<mhall119> roadmap: a smart grandson uses strong passwords and only allows SSH connections with pre-trusted keys
<roadmap> mhall119: that as well
<ropetin> Hehhe, or just firewall the port from all but a few IPs :P
<roadmap> however I would still not run it on a nonstandard port.
<roadmap> er
<roadmap> would run it on a nonstandard port.
<roadmap> I know what i mean.
<MRCeltic> lol
<roadmap> So that makes two of us.
<mhall119> roadmap: just give grandma's computer the hostname "honeypot"
<mhall119> she'll think it's cute
<NTTP> anything *above* port 1000 is usually scanned hard
<roadmap> mhall119: and make it a Windows XP unpatched install facing the internet directly?
<itnet7> rofl
<mhall119> lol
<NTTP> tarpits, gotta love them
<dantalizing> so... MRCeltic .. since i havent said so in response to your forum post... welcome
<dantalizing> :)
<MRCeltic> :-D
<MRCeltic> thank you Dan
<mhall119> someone should right an exploit script with a buffer overflow that creates a backdoor on the attacking system, just to teach the script kiddies a lesson
<NTTP> welp - nite all. See some of you this weekend.
<itnet7> NTTP, Thanks for steppin up to the plate!
<mhall119> s/right/write/
<NTTP> mhall119: awesome idea!
<itnet7> see you on sat.
<MRCeltic> Dan for furture parties i may be able to set up meets and so forth... would have to make a few calls but...
<NTTP> itnet7: no prob - always wanted to host a release party
<roadmap> mhall119: http://xkcd.com/350/ I want to do that one day
<mhall119> I love XKCD
<roadmap> Don't we all
<dantalizing> MRCeltic: awesome
<ropetin> Are we losing focus now? :P
<dantalizing> MRCeltic: the more the merrier, imo!
<MRCeltic> Possible to talk to my boss to bring a few desktops and laptops to the meet locally also
<mhall119> still my favorite: http://xkcd.com/519/
<NTTP> roadmap: wouldn't that lead to a sentient virus?
<itnet7> MRCeltic: Let me know if you would like to tag-along for Saturday
<roadmap> NTTP: if it does then god help us
<mhall119> NTTP: yeah, but they it could operate androids, what could possibly go wrong?
<itnet7> try and let me know by friday
<itnet7> if at all possible
<MRCeltic> inet7 i will have to check on $$$ and ill get back to you by friday
<MRCeltic> lol
<MRCeltic> payday monday so....
<mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/ReleasePartyPlanning post your ideas as you come up with them
<itnet7> Don't let $$$ stop you though, k?
<NTTP> http://xkcd.com/565/
<itnet7> it's only one more person in a vehicle pretty much going that way!!
<MRCeltic> i wont if i can help it
<itnet7> :-)
<w3wsrmn> i saw a few people will be attending both the st.aug and gainesville meetings. i take it they'll head directly from the first to the second?
<MRCeltic> still have to have some money for drinks and stuff ;D
<NTTP> w00t! more people!
<MRCeltic> also its a work day soo.....
<MRCeltic> but im sure that i can talk my boss into letting me have the day off.
<itnet7> w3wsrmn: actually we will be leaving NTTP's thing around 3:00 or so
<roadmap> tell him its for Linux
<NTTP> roadmap: Right, that'll work
<roadmap> better yet, tell him its for the sake of the future of computing and if you don't attend then the future of computers will be very very bleak
<itnet7> Unless he really needs us
<itnet7> roadmap: +1
<mhall119> its for Science!
<MRCeltic> he's the owner of the local computer shop that i work for in New Smyrna Beach and he has actually been sued by Microsoft for Piracy :-D so he of all people really hates Windows
<itnet7> w3wsrmn: you live on the eastcoast?
<mhall119> +1 suing your customers
<MRCeltic> right
<roadmap> +2 countersuing your suing party
<MRCeltic> the judgement was about $900,000
<itnet7> "We're M$ and we care, Now can you please step out of "OUR HOUSE"?
<MRCeltic> for 3 copies of Microsoft Word
<crashsystems> There is a local computer store here that has also been sued by M$
<w3wsrmn> itnet7: polk county. i should be able to attend both parties on saturday, but im unfamiliar getting from st.aug to gaines. would be nice to have someone to tail on the way there :)
<itnet7> Oh, and we're taking your/our car too
<itnet7> Nice w3wsrmn
<dantalizing> cool w3wsrmn!
<roadmap> w3wsrmn: google maps is my hero
<mhall119> woo hoo, another poke countian!
<dantalizing> its an Ubuntu Caravan!
<MRCeltic> lol
<roadmap> Now there is an idea
<mhall119> w3wsrmn: where abouts?
<roadmap> lets print out some Ubuntu sticker/magnets and plant them on our vehicles.
<mhall119> and do I know you?
<roadmap> Then we drive in a nice line down the road.
<w3wsrmn> mhall119: haines city, and i doubt it
<NTTP> w3wsrmn: I moved from Polk to Saint Aug about a year ago - need directions?
<MRCeltic> hmm... i can see if my buddy can make me some vinyls for the windows :-D
<mhall119> yeah, probably not. I'm in Lakeland
<dantalizing> nice
<w3wsrmn> NTTP: nah, directions to there looked simple enough
<itnet7> MRCeltic: you have a body that does vinyl??
<roadmap> maybe we could put the logo on one car, the word "UBU" on another and "NTU" on the other. We drive down the road together. Staying relatively close.
<mhall119> w3wsrmn: www.quinncoincorporated.org we're doing a build day in Lakeland May 23, you should come
<MRCeltic> buddy yes
<NTTP> or taking up 2 lanes
<dantalizing> roadmap: i votge for 1 letter per car
<MRCeltic> Audio Vision of New Smyrna Beach
<dantalizing> *votge
<dantalizing> ugh
<dantalizing> *vote
<roadmap> dantalizing: those ltters would be really stretched thin.
<roadmap> letters ^
<w3wsrmn> i have ubuntu stickers on my helmet, will that work?
<roadmap> I have Jinx stickers on my car.
<roadmap> er, truck
<MRCeltic> lol
<roadmap> If you've been to downtown Orlando you've probably seen it without realizing it.
<roadmap> "There goes the hacker truck"
<NTTP> w3wsrmn: I still have my 863 # on my cell if you get lost
<itnet7> http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1427/1435374655_44cb951838.jpg that's me and catsceo I made the tux on my dell :-P
<chunkxzor> Thats pretty nice looking
<dantalizing> itnet7 NTTP that guy with the ham questions is coming to the party
<MRCeltic> nice
<w3wsrmn> NTTP: i think i'll be fine... i usually dont get too confused until nightgall
<dantalizing> says he needs a monitor
<itnet7> dantalizing: NICE!
<dantalizing> morning chunkxzor
<NTTP> So - next project after Jaunty - Fab@Home....
<crashsystems> itnet7, if you made 20 of those stickers for me, how much would it cost?
<itnet7> thanks chunkxzor
<MRCeltic> intnet7 you actually look familiar
<NTTP> I have one - it's huge, but it works.
<dantalizing> i'll see if i can find an extra as well
<itnet7> crashsystems: not sure
<itnet7> that big?
<itnet7> or small ones?
<NTTP> good old gateway 2000 19inch
<MRCeltic> lol
<crashsystems> small ones, the size that is on my laptop
<NTTP> heavy as a sonofabeyotch
<roadmap> 9 pounds?
<MRCeltic> NTTP: thats ok i have an old SONY Trinitron 17"
<itnet7> MRCeltic: have you been to barcamp/drupalcamp?
<MRCeltic> no
<MRCeltic> i've messed around with drupal though
<NTTP> I have an old tritron 27" from '96
<MRCeltic> :)
<itnet7> I am just wondering where I might know you from is all
<NTTP> 200Lbs Easy
<MRCeltic> NTTP OMG
<roadmap> I wrote a few drupal modules for personal use.
<itnet7> Nice roadmap !!
<roadmap> NTTP: my 19" Dell is 9lbs.
<NTTP> yeah, and the bedroom in this place is on the 3rd floor.
<MRCeltic> never got that far with drupal :(
<mhall119> drupal is pretty easy to get started with, but the more you learn the more you can do
<MRCeltic> drupal was really easy to play around with.
<dantalizing> drupal isnt hard it just takes time
* itnet7 <3 drupal
<dantalizing> because its so flexible
</pre>
