{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Here is the place to record any idea that you think would help the effort. Feel free to put down anything that you like, use the Bonus section for things that may seem outrageous. 

Just so people understand what we mean by "outrageous", we started with the "Big Box" editions of Ubuntu idea. Given our zero dollar advertising budget, our effectiveness is going to be limited, but our freedom to dream should not be. After all "Free Software" is about "Freedom", not about just getting over on the price.

Ideas:
 
* Florida has a large music scene. They might be interested in Ubuntu Studio.

* Touch Base with other groups such as: Free Geek, Computers for Kidz, LUGS etc.

* Talk with school systems about Edubuntu, property tax reform is going to make open source software a more desirable option.

* Write the governor, and your local state, county and local government officials about Open Source software and let them know it can save our tax dollars.

* Donate your old computers to retirement centers with Ubuntu loaded on them. Free  Geek isn't the only organization that can help you with this. If it still runs don't just put it on the curb, load Ubuntu on it and drop it off at the Salvation Army, Goodwill or other local charity that has a second hand store. It's a computer with complete set of applications that works, that is they need to know.

Bonus Section:

* Get a "Big Box" edition of Ubuntu on the sales floor of a major retail chain.

* Get Systems with Ubuntu with them on the sales floor of a "Big Box" store.

* Get Hugh Hefner and the Playboy Bunnies to "Do Ubuntu"
 
* Create fliers and advertising materials and post them at local stores which supply bulleting boards such as Publix, Windixie and Albertsons plus others. You can download them and print them here[link coming soon].
 
* Also ask your local store owners if you can post fliers, post cards or even business cards with a brief explanation about Ubuntu and where to inquire about it.

* Get a digital camera and some free Ubuntu CD's and get pictures of people with. Upload the  the pictures to the internet and share them with your friends. <nowiki>[[http://picasaweb.google.com/odomsbar/ShillBuntu|SHILLBUNTU]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Marketing|BACK ]]</nowiki>
