{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre>
20:03  * mhall119 claps politely
20:03 < roadmap> he made it.
20:03 -!- Irssi: Join to #ubuntu-us-fl was synced in 5 secs
20:03 < jamesrfla> lol
20:03 < jamesrfla> just in time
20:03 < itnet7> Nice timing maxolase1squad
20:03 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: the floor is yours. Welcome to the meeting.
20:03 < maxolase1squad> I had to go from wired to wireless
20:03 < dantalizing> lol
20:03  * pak33m is here
20:03 < maxolase1squad> So it's me then?
20:04 < mhall119> yup
20:04 < shmolf> shmolf is here
20:04 < itnet7> yessir
20:04 < itnet7> you're up
20:04 < pak33m> gott get kids to bed but here
20:04 < maxolase1squad> Ok, so basically we have tossed around various ideas for team projects.
20:04 < maxolase1squad> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects
20:05 < maxolase1squad> But we aren't really doing any of them outside of the release parties and the Florida Linux Conference things.
20:06 < maxolase1squad> So of the suggested options it seems we have Tri-Loco Meetup, host ETQW server, a podcast, and it's not on the list but writing a
                        program.
20:06 < maxolase1squad> Thoughts?
20:06 < ropetin> ETQW?
20:06 < itnet7> I want to just say one thing real quick if you don't mind maxolase1squad
20:06 < maxolase1squad> Enemy Territory Quake Wars
20:06 < roadmap> ropetin: Enemy Territory Quake Wars
20:06 < maxolase1squad> itnet7: Sure
20:07 < itnet7> Until now we haven't had a great influx of people that are really interested in taking charge
20:07 < ropetin> Ooo yeah, we should do that!
20:07 < itnet7> you guys have all been helping out tremendously
20:08 < itnet7> I just want to encourage your idea and let you know that some of your attitudes are like a breath of fresh air!
20:08 < maxolase1squad> *blush*
20:08 -!- roadmap_ [n=roadmap@80.60.119.70.cfl.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:08 < mhall119> minty
20:08 < dantalizing> brown noser
20:08 < itnet7> yeah, minty fresh
20:08 < roadmap_> Sorry about that, my Modem is dying (restarts randomly).
20:08 < maxolase1squad> fresh and so clean?
20:08 < pak33m> tuttie fruitti
20:08 < roadmap_> If someone will PM me the scrollback? (it shouldn't be much) it would be appreciated.'
20:08 < Michelle_Qimo> oh good grief.
20:08 < itnet7> dantalizing: you're a brown noser? that's terrible that you feel that way about yourself
20:09 < dantalizing> lol
20:09 -!- roadmap [n=roadmap@80.60.119.70.cfl.res.rr.com] has quit [Nick collision from services.]
20:09 -!- crashsystems [n=crashsys@c-76-106-162-9.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has quit [Excess Flood]
20:09 < mhall119> plus, itnet7 and dantalizing, who have been doing awesome stuff here for a while, get a big +1
20:09 -!- roadmap_ is now known as roadmap
20:09 -!- crashsystems [n=crashsys@c-76-106-162-9.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:09 < crashsystems> comcast sucks
20:09 < mhall119> netsplit?
20:09 < roadmap> crashsystems: my modem is power cycling about every 3 hours.
20:09 < roadmap> i have it bad lately
20:09 < ropetin> +1 crashsystems
20:10 < jamesrfla> yes it does crashsystems that is why I have embarq
20:10 < itnet7> pak33m: has been a tremendous help and alot of others, but I can see we can actually change ubuntu for florida with the momentum we're having
20:10 < shmolf> what type of program is suggested?
20:10 < chunkxzor> crashsystems: I love comcast :(
20:10 < DixieDancer> i'm on satellite out here in the boondocks
20:10 < itnet7> brb
20:10 < maxolase1squad> So ropetin likes ETQW, I think the program is crashsystems idea (maybe not), and the podcast is mine.
20:10 < jamesrfla> DixieDancer: where are you located?
20:11 < roadmap> What kind of program was going to be written?
20:11 -!- erictee [n=eric@adsl-074-229-034-112.sip.bct.bellsouth.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:11 < mhall119> I'd be interested in a python-gtk projectg
20:11 < ropetin> I can research the ETQW option, and see what we'd need
20:11 < maxolase1squad> Whoever wants to do an idea I think needs to be willing to take the lead on it, and I'm willing to take the lead on mine, but we
                        shouldn't try more than two so we don't spread ourselves thin.
20:11 < crashsystems> the general idea of a loco programming project was my idea
20:11 -!- reya276 [n=reya276@c-75-74-62-51.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:11 < Michelle_Qimo> Should we be interested in hosting a Tri-Loco meetup, I'd be happy to help
20:11 < DixieDancer> near Dunnellon (halfway btwn Ocala and Crystal River
20:12 < dantalizing> i think we have multiple streams of interest
20:12 < roadmap> I can get ahold of the Alabama Loco (I think?). I'm there enough.
20:12 < roadmap> I don't know anything about them but I'm in Alabama every two months.
20:12 < dantalizing> what is your idea maxolase1squad ?
20:12 < maxolase1squad> The podcast.
20:13 < pak33m> maxolase1squad: how about we have a brainstorm-like page on the wiki liked to the projects page to create alist of these ideas
20:13 < shmolf> what would be the focus of the podcast?
20:13 < dantalizing> oh, i missed you mentioning it
20:13 < maxolase1squad> pak33m: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects
20:13 < roadmap> I have a suggestion for the focus
20:14 < shmolf> roadmap: let's here it
20:14 < jamesrfla> interesting DixieDancer looks like you have some train tracks running through there
20:14 < roadmap> I'm putting it into words -
20:14 < maxolase1squad> shmolf: Ubuntu and FOSS of course, but with a focus on what's happening in the SE corner.  I think there's a lot going on here, but
                        all we ever hear about is what is happening on the West coast.
20:14 < roadmap> Its essentially we can discuss areas and companies in Florida that use and contribute to FOSS and Ubuntu like projects
20:14 < DixieDancer> does Fl-LoCo interact with the Florida Linux Users Groups here? (sorry, n00b question)
20:14 < roadmap> I know for a fact WBUL (radio station) in Tampa uses Ubuntu
20:15 < maxolase1squad> roadmap: Exactly.  More specifically I was thinking a core group of us could get on Ekiga and go over a list of topics, and then have
                        interviews.
20:15 < itnet7> DixieDancer: a lot of us do attend our local lug meetings
20:15 < crashsystems> ooo, do they publicize that fact roadmap?
20:15 < maxolase1squad> Perhaps anyone could submit and interview and we could sort through them and put them at the end of the show.
20:15 < maxolase1squad> Perhaps anyone could submit and interview and we could sort through them and put them at the end of the show.
20:15 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: Perhaps with local community or company leaders who have made the switch?
20:15 < shmolf> should we do interviews w/ the  companies or rorganizations using ubuntu
20:15 < dantalizing> DixieDancer: we try.  in some case very much, in others, not so much
20:15 < roadmap> crashsystems: I don't know. I've been inside the studio and saw all the machines on Ubuntu.
20:15 < maxolase1squad> I would think we could interview anyone doing something exciting with FOSS.
20:15  * itnet7 not so much
20:16 < roadmap> Thats true too
20:16 < itnet7> +1 maxolase1squad
20:16 < roadmap> I'm sure there are people in our own LoCo doing interesting things with FOSS (Just look at Qimo!)
20:16 < roadmap> That we could discuss as well
20:16 < itnet7> roadmap's ideas were good too
20:16  * DixieDancer volunteers to conduct interviews... maybe a good job for a newbie
20:16 < maxolase1squad> Obviously what Michelle and mhall119 are doing.  There's also a guy in Pensacola migrating the schools to Ubuntu.  Stuff like that.
20:16 < crashsystems> I've migrated one school
20:16 -!- maxolasersquad [n=david@fl-67-232-249-32.dhcp.embarqhsd.net] has quit ["Lost terminal"]
20:17 < maxolase1squad> crashsystems +1
20:17 < roadmap> I've made one linux Zealot and three happy converts.
20:17 < Michelle_Qimo> We've actually got some pretty good connections you might be interested in, too, maxolase1squad
20:17  * jamesrfla is here to help out with anything I guess just as long as it doesn't involve traveling
20:17 < maxolase1squad> I think from what I've seen over the last few months there is no shortage of exciting things to report on, and was what really got me
                        excited about this idea.
20:17 < mhall119> I know that Verizon uses Linux heavily on developer desktops
20:17  * DixieDancer LOVES to travel
20:17  * reya276 agrees with jamesrfla
20:18 < roadmap> What I think is missing from a lot of linux promition is a realistic projection of what Linux can do.
20:18 < crashsystems> how about if we do the podcast thing, we aim at first for a specific set number of interviews to do, publish them, and see how well
                      they do and how sustainable we think it is once we have a better feel for the work involved.
20:18 < itnet7> DixieDancer: where are you from again?
20:18 < jamesrfla> DixieDancer: I do too but I can't drive yet/don't want to drive. I am 16 so
20:18 < roadmap> People either take it to one extreme or another.
20:18 < roadmap> "Linux is too difficult" or "Linux works with everything"
20:18 < maxolase1squad> I'd also like to talk to boredandblogging and share resources with him, if interested.  dantalizing mentioned he had brought htis up
                        before.
20:18 < roadmap> If we're going to discuss Ubuntu/FOSS we should also compare and contrast what Linux can do compared with other operating systems.
20:18 < jamesrfla> itnet7: he is from ear Dunnellon (halfway btwn Ocala and Crystal River
20:18 < crashsystems> yeah, he would probably have some good advice
20:19 < reya276> well no I think we need to take a corporate marketing approach
20:19 < DixieDancer> @itnet7 - near Dunnellon. Ocala address, Dunnellon phone number
20:19 < maxolase1squad> Ok, so I guess there is plenty of great ideas for the podcast idea.  What else would everyone like to discuss as a possibility?
20:19 < shmolf> roadmap: I think would should support Linux as a whole, and just mention the benefits of ubuntu
20:19 < reya276> and focus on what the average users use Ubuntu for, not what we use it for
20:19 < jamesrfla> the only problem I really have with linux is games. Other than that a average user should be able to do everything else
20:20 < roadmap> shmolf: Thats great for someone whos never used a computer. But if you're going to try to appeal to the other 80% of humans who have used
                 one, they may want to look at it from a realistic approach.
20:20 < reya276> well games is an issue because there is a lack of developers
20:20 < roadmap> "Is it easy to use?" "I heard linux was all command line and hard" "What is Linux?"
20:20 < roadmap> You're going to end up with a lot of questions like that.
20:20 < mhall119> we could build a configuration GUI for something that doesn't have one
20:20 < pak33m> reya276: +1 on getting to users
20:21 < DixieDancer> Games?? That's what your XBOX and Playstation are for. Computers are for other stuff... maybe a better angle
20:21 < reya276> well see that is the issue, people most of the time don't like to read at least most average users don't they just want to do
20:21 < roadmap> Ubuntus moitto should be "Linux: It just Works"
20:21 < jamesrfla> lol roadmap you should see the guys at my tech school (http://dhs.leeschools.net) they just make fun of linux all the times although maybe
                   since it is microsoft certified high school.....
20:21 < maxolase1squad> What about the programming idea?
20:21 < roadmap> I switched my sister to Ubuntu after having years of trouble with spyware/adware/popups/whatever on Windows. She never has been happier.
20:21 < pak33m> i think we need to have events to draw in users who may not have used ubuntu, linux, eg
20:21 < jamesrfla> DixieDancer: I PWND better at keyboard and mouse than controller
20:21 < roadmap> She didn't expect Linux would "just work". She thought it would be long and difficult.
20:21 < ropetin> maxolase1squad: a very good idea, if we can come up with something useful and unique
20:21 < DixieDancer> I have used Linux to resurrect an ancient old 'puter that had been given up for dead - that's a really good (and environmentally sound)
                     use for Linux
20:22 < reya276> well no you don't want to say either, cause my graphics tablet just stop working so we can't just flat out lie either, somethings don't just
                 work
20:22 < itnet7> maxolase1squad: I would like to get involved with the programming, especially projects involving python and djano
20:22 < itnet7> django
20:22 < DixieDancer> not so much for Ubuntu, but for Linux
20:22 < crashsystems> django ftw!
20:22 < maxolase1squad> Isn't django a web framework?
20:22 < roadmap> python based
20:22 < roadmap> and yes.
20:22 < crashsystems> yes
20:22 < mhall119> I'd rather do a desktop app than a web app
20:22 < jamesrfla> roadmap: yeah I like how I don't have to worry about viruses as much as windows
20:22 < crashsystems> I think the key to a programming project would be to find an idea for a project that enough people are exited about.
20:23 < itnet7> Rapid application deployment framework
20:23 < roadmap> mhall119: There is enough of us to go around.
20:23 < roadmap> If we have some who want to do web and some to do desktop I imagine it wouldn't hurt.
20:23 < reya276> well what type of app are we talking about?
20:23 < mhall119> roadmap: but I think a singular focus at this state would be good
20:23 < roadmap> Agreed.
20:23 < maxolase1squad> How many programmers (even if beginners) do we have here?
20:23 < DixieDancer> an education app then
20:23 < mhall119> me
20:23 < crashsystems> Me. Python
20:23 < roadmap> I was thinking something for Qimo though. I imagine something like Qimo has lots of things that it needs or could be useful to it (maybe not
                 need so much as just be beneficial)
20:23 < itnet7> I am a beginner with python
20:23 < shmolf> would a widget be good?
20:23 < reya276> me
20:24 < DixieDancer> or an app to help all the old folks in this state be better drivers
20:24 < jamesrfla> maxolase1squad: I haven't really messed with programing yet but I know how to edit config files
20:24 < roadmap> I'm a C#/Perl person but I have experience with other languages as well.
20:24 < itnet7> bash scripting
20:24 < roadmap> Python is not one of them.
20:24 < reya276> not so good with python only PHP/CF/.NET
20:24 < mhall119> roadmap: we do have a lot, but it's mostly going to involve the developers of our included games
20:24 < crashsystems> mhall119: does Qimo have GTK installed by default?
20:24 < mhall119> yes, it's XFCE
20:24  * Michelle_Qimo needs a food journal for son...
20:25 < mhall119> we could improve RedNotebook, it's a journal app, python I think, just needs some love
20:25 < crashsystems> Michelle_Qimo: care to elaborate?
20:25 < roadmap> Taking an already existing project and breathing some life into it could be fun.
20:25 < maxolase1squad> So is that five programmers (including myself)?
20:25 < Michelle_Qimo> i need a journal program...  all the ones I've found suck
20:25 < DixieDancer> agreed!
20:25 < itnet7> dan also knows a bit about programming, and lupine
20:25 < ropetin> I'm available to help with documentation, testing, that kind of thign
20:25 < ropetin> thing
20:25 < Michelle_Qimo> something I can document his daily food intake - and preferably integrated with Thunderbird.
20:25 < reya276> remember people love eye candy
20:25 < maxolase1squad> I really like the idea of building something useful for Qimo.
20:26 < roadmap> I want a scheduler  app (namely cross platform :() that I can add events/dates/notifications to and have it not suck.
20:26 < DixieDancer> a blogging tool that isn't JUST for one site or two, but compatible with Xanga
20:26 < mhall119> I can use help making good debian packages for Qimo
20:26 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: I do too.
20:26 < mhall119> anyone know about deb packaging?
20:26 < maxolase1squad> ropetin: Definitely more than programmers is useful.  Artwork, documentation, etc.
20:26 < ropetin> Perhaps this should get redirected to a Wiki page, covering everyones ideas?
20:26 < crashsystems> Michelle_Qimo: Perhaps you could send an email to the list about what you are looking for, what features you would need/want, and why
                      other tools suck. If you could explain how it could be useful to a larger audience, that would be great too.
20:26 < Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: will do
20:26 < maxolase1squad> ropetin: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects
20:27 < reya276> well I can help alot on the art work side
20:27 < itnet7> crashsystems: maxolase1squad, projects like this could be managed in launchpad
20:27 < ropetin> I meant specifically the programming ideas, to avoid throwing them around in here righ tnow
20:27 < crashsystems> indeed
20:27 < maxolase1squad> crashsystems: absolutely
20:27 < mhall119> +1 launchpad
20:27 < itnet7> that way the rest of the team could learn a lot even if they don't do the code
20:27 < crashsystems> launchpad, bzr ftw
20:27 < maxolase1squad> So with the Tri-Loco, ETQW, what are the thoughts on those over podcast or program?
20:28 < itnet7> everything from promotion, to packaging to answer support questions, and possibly translations
20:28 < roadmap> ETQW shouldn't be ahrd at all to setup if someone has a server.
20:28 < ropetin> ETQW is a fairly light project, no?
20:28 < roadmap> I'll do it tonight if you give me SSH.
20:28 < maxolase1squad> crashsystems: +1 launchpad
20:28 < mhall119> podcast and program projects are open-ended
20:28 < roadmap> and even download the software for it
20:28 < roadmap> (saves time no?)
20:28 < maxolase1squad> ropetin: +1 wiki
20:28 < itnet7> THe problem is that I wanted to try and get an official ranked server
20:28 < crashsystems> hmm, as far as the tri-loco, I don't think we should consider that as being within the same constraints as others, as it is a one-time
                      event
20:28 < itnet7> it's 2/slot per month
20:28 < maxolase1squad> mhall119: Agreed, but if there is enough excitement and will we can flesh out the specifics later.
20:28 < ropetin> itnet7: I'll take a look into the requirements, and see what I can come up with
20:29 < roadmap> itnet7: How does that work? Usually server rankings (at least for Valve games) are opt-in rankings through server config
20:29 < mhall119> maxolase1squad: that was a +1 for podcasts and programs
20:29 < maxolase1squad> ah
20:29 < itnet7> ropetin: not etqw, only official ranked servers
20:29 < dantalizing> i like the podcast idea a lot ... would like to hear more about the proposed setup
20:29 < itnet7> I was thinking though if there was enough interest I can adopt a month, possibly dantalizing  would/could
20:30 < maxolase1squad> Can we come to a concensus about podcast & program and flesh those out later?
20:30 < itnet7> we would only need a couple of more to try it for a couple of months
20:30 < shmolf> if we do podcasts, it'd be nice to have statewide involvementt
20:30 < mhall119> maybe we could do the podcasts in conjunction with ubuntu podcast?
20:30 < itnet7> yes maxolase1squad
20:30 < crashsystems> As far as programming projects, I definitely prefer things that can be used by non-profits, people working for a good cause or things
                      that are not served by traditional markets.
20:30 < roadmap> mhall119: Look at all the ideas we're throwing out right now. I think all the people in here are interesting enough with all their own ideas
                 to cover in plenty of podcasts.
20:30 < crashsystems> though it should not be limited to that
20:30 < dantalizing> +1 shmolf, maxolase1squad, itnet7 , crashsystems
20:30 < maxolase1squad> Of course there's nothing saying we can't do three, I was just thinking we shouldn't try to extend our existing man-power too far.
20:30 < roadmap> The Florida LoCo sounds like it could have plenty of things it could talk about, such as all the projects its involved with.
20:31 < mhall119> roadmap: I meant I'd like to see our podcasts also being posted on ubuntupodcast.net
20:31 < dantalizing> mhall119: we can certainly ask ... when i did they were mainly interested in video
20:31 < roadmap> Ah :)
20:31 < mhall119> dantalizing: maybe we can have a sub-catagory, like the quickies
20:31 < maxolase1squad> dantalizing: Are you able to elaborate on what boredandbloggings ideas where when he was telling about localised podcasts?
20:31 < itnet7> maxolase1squad: podcast or videocast?
20:31 < jamesrfla> be back soon in maybe 15min
20:31 < roadmap> Hm. We could do a video cast could we not?
20:31 < maxolase1squad> I was thinking audiocast, at least at first.
20:32 < shmolf> maxolase1squad: i can't do programming, servers, or web developement
20:32 < crashsystems> audio is certianly a lot easier
20:32 < mhall119> as long as both interviewer and interviewee have webcams
20:32 < crashsystems> shmolf: documentation is also extremely important.
20:32 < dantalizing> so some of us already are working with ubuntu podcast on video ... and I'd be willing to bet they'd welcome new high-quality content
20:32 < dantalizing> i cant speak for them
20:32 < roadmap> mhall119: I was talking quality video. chunkxzor and I know a guy but I don't know if he'd let us borrow the stuff or not.
20:32 < mhall119> shmolf: testing is even more important
20:32 < maxolase1squad> shmolf: Are you interested in learning.  I think the biggest downside of the programming idea is the need of specific specialisations
                        to participate.
20:32 < dantalizing> but they're focused on video
20:33 < chunkxzor> roadmap: Meister?
20:33 < roadmap> Yeah
20:33 < roadmap> We could ask him about it
20:33 < mhall119> is there an ubunturadio.net registered?
20:33 < roadmap> The problem is that limits who "hosts" it to the people in the Orlando Area
20:33 < maxolase1squad> The problem with Video is that's not so easy to do in a distributed environment like this, but that can always be worked out too.
20:33 < crashsystems> what about podcasts.ubuntu.com?
20:33 < roadmap> meaning somehow chunkxzor and I would end up being the hosts.
20:33 < roadmap> Maybe chaynie.
20:33 < chunkxzor> roadmap: Honestly I think he would let us borrow it, as far as I know he doesn't use it now
20:34 < chunkxzor> roadmap: :(
20:34 < roadmap> Its meister.
20:34 < roadmap> Its hit or miss with him.
20:34 < roadmap> He also does video editing and green screen effects/etc. I wonder if he'd be willing to edit.
20:34 < ropetin> Just as an aside, my wife went to school for film, and up until recently had her own video production company...
20:35 < chunkxzor> roadmap: didnt he run linux?
20:35 < itnet7> maxolase1squad: if you have game plan for the you're first project mail to the list and ask for feedback
20:35 < ropetin> Just in case it's needed
20:35 < roadmap> we killed the conversation.
20:35 < maxolase1squad> I'd like to motion that we hold on to all of our great ideas and move on to the next agenda item.  I'll promiss to get back with
                        everyone on the podcast.
20:35 < ropetin> :)
20:35 < maxolase1squad> crashsystems: Are you willing to take the lead on the programming project?
20:35 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: Sounds good.
20:35 < itnet7> take out the word "the" before you're please
20:35 < mhall119> we could do a poll on the website on what project to do
20:35 < crashsystems> maxolase1squad: likely
20:35 < DixieDancer> +1
20:35 < itnet7> roadmap: you're up
20:36 < roadmap> actually my idea ties in with yours itnet7, but alright.'
20:36 < roadmap> In the previous meeting, we had discussed the possibilty of some form of IRC channel bot.
20:36 < roadmap> The primary purpose of this bot would be namely for "quotes" - a quote bot of sorts.
20:36 < roadmap> Lots of existing channels already have this feature on Freenode.
20:36 < maxolase1squad> What does a quote bot do?
20:37 < itnet7> https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots
20:37 < crashsystems> many open source bots available have plugins, and so can do many things based upon how you configure it
20:37 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: say you say something really stupid, like "I put a shoe on my head", if someone thinks thats funny they could type !grab (or
                 some varied command) and it would save that line of text you said.
20:37 < dantalizing> takes up log space
20:37 < itnet7> https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-bots
20:37 < crashsystems> I heard phenny works well
20:37 < itnet7> none of these meet the needs? or are you wanting to write one yourself?
20:37 < roadmap> Regardless, it also occured to me the same thing that itnet7 had pointed out on the Wiki.
20:37 < roadmap> itnet7: I was looking for software suggestions :).
20:38 < roadmap> However, if you guys have noticed in the #ubuntu channel, they have commands like !language
20:38 < roadmap> if someone speaks imappriorpately, a user can type !language and warn them, or !language | nick and actually have the bot alert to the
                 offending users nick with a warning
20:38 < roadmap> inappropriately ^
20:38 < roadmap> I was thinking that also may be a good feature due to the amount of swear violations we have in here (I'm just as guilty as anyone else)
20:38 < pak33m> or talks wizardy
20:39 < itnet7> maybe more but no worse than zzzzzZZZZzzz today!!!
20:39 < itnet7> ;-)
20:39 < mhall119> can we just get the #ubuntu bot?
20:39 < roadmap> I was wondering if people still were interested in the channel/quote bot idea and if so, then looking for software suggestions.
20:39 < crashsystems> ubottu?
20:39 < mhall119> I think that's it
20:40 < itnet7> The idea behind policing the language is found in the guidelines that i posted
20:40 < ropetin> We don't want the plus one bot idea?
20:40 < crashsystems> phenny can do many things, as it has plugins
20:40 < mhall119> it's nice, you can say !package and it will give a description of package
20:40 < roadmap> mhall119: that could be a possibility. #Archlinux has a bot too that does quotes among other things (similar !language type commands,
                 although language is not inforced in #archlinux)
20:40 < itnet7> I contacted the team about ubottu, but never heard anything
20:40 < roadmap> we could write one. Thats also a possibility. However depending on whos going to be in charge/maintaining it we'd have to find an acceptable
                 language.
20:40 < roadmap> If nobody wants to do it I can hack up a perl bot and have it daemonize itself.
20:41 < crashsystems> http://inamidst.com/phenny/
20:41 < itnet7> the It would be cool to write a bot that would automatically put symbols instead of the lettering in the profanity
20:41 < jamesrfla> back did I miss anything?
20:41 < itnet7> and have it based on a list
20:41 < mhall119> itnet7: can a bot modify someone else's post?
20:42 < crashsystems> I don't think so
20:42 < roadmap> Sadly no.
20:42 < ropetin> mhall119: no!
20:42 < mhall119> I don't think so either
20:42 < DixieDancer> too bad, that would be cool
20:42 < roadmap> You could write an IRC "proxy" (redirect) of sorts that intercepted your own traffic and blank your swears.
20:42 < roadmap> Or every popular IRC client has an API/Plugin extensiability.
20:42 < crashsystems> I'd rather not have automated censorship
20:42 < roadmap> I could handle writing an XChat swear blocker plugin.
20:42 < roadmap> crashsystems: I'd rather have opt-in automated censorship. Not mandatory.
20:43 < roadmap> "Install this plugin if you want to"
20:43 < ropetin> Do we care so much if someone says poopy every so often?
20:43 < mhall119> I'd rather have a useful bot, rather than a parental bot
20:43 < ropetin> If it's a repeat offender, they should be kicked/banned
20:43 < itnet7> I don't know if it's the bot that does it, but how does freenode make sure you don't accidently post your password
20:43 < roadmap> Well, i'm not itnet7 so I can't tell you his views on it (since he has the Etiquitte posting on the wiki)
20:43 < mhall119> itnet7: lol
20:43 < roadmap> however an accidently/occasional swear i think is fine
20:43 < pak33m> ropetin: nice segue into the next agenda item
20:43 < roadmap> Its those who continue to do it.
20:44 < ropetin> pak33m: I thank YOU!
20:44 < roadmap> Also it depends on the 'definition' of swearing.
20:44 < roadmap> To some people "damn" isnt a bad word. But you add "God" in front of it and its a horrible word.
20:44 -!- ptizzy [n=patrick@fl-71-55-14-216.dhcp.embarqhsd.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:44 < itnet7> accidental swearing is going to have to be fine, I just want to try and keep the language toned down so that if some new users seeking help
                come in here they won't get offended leave and never come back
20:44 < ropetin> roadmap: or to me, neither is a concern
20:44 < shmolf> this is true, where is the line
20:44 < mhall119> +1 ubottu, -1 swear bot
20:45 < roadmap> I'd rather have a small acceptable list of swear words.
20:45 < roadmap> ANything over that and somebody will say something about it.
20:45 < maxolase1squad> I think just whenever it becomes either abusive or excessive.
20:45 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: +1
20:45 < mhall119> once you start a list of "bad" words, you'll be fighting about where to draw the line forever, -1
20:45 < crashsystems> language moderation is something that I do not think lends itself to a list type solution
20:45 < ropetin> We're all grown ups or close to grown ups, so we can handle it.  Anyone below a certain age probably shouldn't be on IRC unattended
20:45 < roadmap> possibly. We're all rational people here though, I imagine we'd have similar guidelines.
20:46 < DixieDancer> just use George Carlin's list of forbidden words
20:46 < DixieDancer> let the rest go
20:46 < itnet7> It was simply and idea so that you didn't have to concentrate and choosing words
20:46 < roadmap> At least as far as I can tell the general consensus of inappropriate language seems to be on par with everybody.
20:46 < mhall119> DixieDancer: but then we won't be able to talk about George Carlin
20:46 < dantalizing> can we ban 'BSD'?
20:46 < pak33m> itnet7: maybe at least post your irc guidlines in the topic
20:46 < crashsystems> It is a human problem so needs a human solution. Not something that can be programmed IMHO
20:46 < crashsystems> dantalizing +1
20:46 < roadmap> dantalizing: only if we can ban "Mac" "OSX" and "Apple".
20:47 < ropetin> +1 roadmap
20:47 < dantalizing> roadmap: +1
20:47 < crashsystems> roadmap +1
20:47 < pak33m> irc guidelines link that is
20:47 < roadmap> If anything I think a !language command would be useful to have on a bot. If someone starts getting unruley, just type it.
20:47 < mhall119> besides, if we ban a certain word, people will just use $ or @ or what not to change it just enough
20:47 < roadmap> Give them a little reminder (and the channel)
20:47 < maxolase1squad> Was the bot idea just for censorship?
20:47 < roadmap> mhall119: regular expressions are your friend :)
20:47 < mhall119> +1 on ubottu's !language
20:47 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: the bot idea was for storing quotes.
20:48 < mhall119> roadmap: they are for me, yes
20:48 < roadmap> however I was also considering the possibility of adding a !language command or even an automated system where if detected a swear word it
                 would notify the user to keep the language down.
20:48 < shmolf> +1 on !language
20:48 < itnet7> +1 roadmap
20:48 < mhall119> lets try and get ubottu again, and if that fails we'll look for something else or write our own
20:48 < roadmap> i could write the thing from scratch in perl and sqlite :(
20:49 < mhall119> -1 reinventing the wheel
20:49 < crashsystems> lol
20:49 < roadmap> Problem is I already have something like it already done for a Nintendo DS community.
20:49 < roadmap> So it would be more like modifying a wheel I already re-invented.
20:49 < ropetin> Who knew there was such a thing as the Nintendo DS Community
20:49 < ropetin> +1 to that
20:49 < itnet7> So I guess dantalizing is up then?
20:49 < roadmap> Guess so.
20:50 < DixieDancer> changing a tire? Rotating it? Call it a erm, hubcap?
20:50 < mhall119> +1 to get on with it
20:50 < roadmap> +3 Funny
20:50 < roadmap> wait, this isn't slashdot.
20:50 < dantalizing> am i really up?
20:50 < itnet7> You look up to me
20:50 < itnet7> ;-)
20:50 < ropetin> -1 offtopic roadmap
20:50 < mhall119> it's not?
20:50 < roadmap> -1 Troll ropetin
20:50 < ropetin> Touche!
20:50 < shmolf> haha
20:50 < mhall119> Troll shouldn't be used in place of "I disagree"
20:51 < crashsystems> dang, I cannot find the code for ubottu on LP
20:51 < roadmap> It should be used in place of "Why are you posting about your feet in a news post about solar energy"
20:51 < dantalizing> mhall119: troll
20:51 < Michelle_Qimo> oh good grief.
20:51 < roadmap> dantalizing: you are up :).
20:51 < mhall119> get on with it!
20:51 < dantalizing> lol
20:52 < shmolf> i like the bot idea
20:52 < dantalizing> basically i wanna expand trhe use of the website
20:52 < mhall119> Michelle_Qimo: sweet and sour chicken, or bourbon chicken?
20:52  * mhall119 is now being intentionally offtopic
20:52 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119: S&S please
20:52 < dantalizing> previously we'd tried ubuntu-florida.org
20:52 < dantalizing> and i like some of the ideas there
20:53 < dantalizing> basically we need a more user friendly place for rsvp, and events and such
20:53 < roadmap> As someone who has done web development on failed sites and successful ones
20:53 < mhall119> ubuntu-fl.org?
20:53 < roadmap> If you're aiming to get the sites name out, or the idea of the ubuntu loco out
20:53 < roadmap> Why not develop a facebook app or a myspace app that ties into the Ubuntu FL website?
20:53 < crashsystems> as far as "friendly" in the sense of maintaining content, I think WP is the way to go
20:54 < ropetin> roadmap: Facebook/MySpace FTL
20:54 < maxolase1squad> dantalizing: I've never quite been clear on what the aim of ubuntu-fl.org over https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/
20:54 < roadmap> ropetin: I'm not a Facebook/Myspace fan, but how many millions of people are?
20:54 < maxolase1squad> ropetin +1
20:54 < mhall119> 2
20:54 < crashsystems> maxolase1squad: I'd imagine that a wiki is not quite so friendly for a non-geek
20:54 < roadmap> If you want to expand the site and get it reachable by as many people as possible
20:54 < dantalizing> maxolase1squad: wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/WebSite
20:54 < crashsystems> the wiki is more for our use, while the website is our public face
20:54 < maxolase1squad> crashsystems: to maintain?
20:54 < mhall119> a wiki is a good workspace, but a good storefront
20:54 < Michelle_Qimo> as a non-geek, i find the wiki a little difficult to navigate & edit.
20:54 < roadmap> using a social networks API and writing integrating applications really does appeal to it
20:55 < maxolase1squad> crashsystems: Ok.
20:55 < dantalizing> so Michelle_Qimo is my use case here
20:55 < crashsystems> Michelle_Qimo: As a geek, I can find the wiki hard to navigate
20:55 < DixieDancer> How 'bout offering a "badge" or "button" that you can add to your facebook profile or myspace or whatever that links to our site?
20:55 < roadmap> As a geek, I still don't understand git.
20:55 < Michelle_Qimo> so it's not just me?
20:55 < dantalizing> we need to engage the larger community
20:55 < shmolf> roadmap: +1
20:55 < roadmap> DixieDancer: Website achievements?
20:55 < reya276> plenty of people on Facebook
20:55 < roadmap> We could aim to make the ubuntu fl website an ubuntu fl social network
20:55 < crashsystems> I think a facebook page would be great, but that is another topic
20:55 < mhall119> dantalizing: define "the larger community" please
20:55 < dantalizing> roadmap: that is what ubuntu-florida.org is
20:55 < roadmap> I mean the website is supposed to encompass the community as a whole right?
20:56 < reya276> Average users
20:56 < DixieDancer> I put one on my Xanga that links to the Ubuntu Social Network
20:56 < dantalizing> mhall119: the average user
20:56 < roadmap> dantalizing: ubuntu-florida.org is a really nice advertisement.
20:56 < mhall119> dantalizing: the average Ubuntu user?  Computer User?
20:56 < dantalizing> roadmap: sorry
20:56 < dantalizing> roadmap: www.ubuntuflorida.org
20:56 < reya276> the average PC/Mac user
20:56 < maxolase1squad> Why would we need to create a third site?
20:56 < dantalizing> mhall119: the next billion computer users
20:56 < reya276> not linux users
20:56 < mhall119> dantalizing: I don't speak hindi
20:56 < dantalizing> maxolase1squad: we dont
20:57 < mhall119> or manderin
20:57 < roadmap> dantalizing: I've noticed sites (roosterteeth.com is a good example of this) that have website achievements (similar to that of like Xbox
                 Live) seem to have more activity
20:57 < roadmap> achievement for getting 100 forum posts, achievement for accumlating a total of 10 hours of logged in time
20:57 < roadmap> achievement for adding the facebook app to your facebook page
20:57 < reya276> I think that is the main problem with the Linux community as a whole, can't think out side the box, the focus should be on average PC users
                 not the linux users
20:57 < roadmap> Give people something to do on the website and they'll do it.
20:57 < mhall119> how is a social network about Ubuntu going to attract Window/Mac users?
20:57 < maxolase1squad> roadmap: Then you get people contributing for contributings sake, which is the exact wrong reason to contribute.
20:57 < roadmap> reya276: agreed.
20:58 < roadmap> maxolase1squad: Thats where moderation steps in.
20:58 < roadmap> And I was solely giving examples.
20:58 < roadmap> With some refined thinking, I'm sure we could shy away from the typical "award at 100 posts" stigma
20:58 < roadmap> Instead, you get "Award of helping 10 people with Ubuntu related problems"
20:58 < reya276> Well I think the first thing that needs to be done is define what is our main focus
20:58 < roadmap> for ^
20:58 < crashsystems> I think we need to first decide a narrow scope of what the site is for and what we want it to do, and then go on to discuss feature set
20:58 < dantalizing> my main goals for the website are: 1. advocacy, 2. news/events, 3. communtiy building
20:58 < dantalizing> we already have a lot of places for #3
20:58 < dantalizing> so i see that as more of a gateway
20:59 < reya276> dantalizing: +1
20:59 < DixieDancer> brb
20:59 < reya276> right
20:59 < dantalizing> but if you look now, we get people using the TeamChat link on the website
20:59 < dantalizing> becasue not everyone is happy using irc clients
20:59 < mhall119> dantalizing: don't we already have that on ubuntu-fl.org?
20:59 < reya276> I don't use it
20:59 < crashsystems> so with that in mind, what feature set would be good (without getting into feature creep)?
20:59 < reya276> I use pidgin
20:59 < jamesrfla> I do too
21:00 < reya276> oh here we go I'm as close as an average user you will get
21:00 < roadmap> crashsystems: feature set for ubuntuflorida?
21:00 < crashsystems> I think basic CMS and blog are a must. Also, some sort of planet like syndication would be good.
21:00 < crashsystems> the loco website
21:00 < roadmap> ah
21:00 < reya276> so I should be your test dummy
21:00 < shmolf> i use the website
21:00 < dantalizing> planet is set up, but not running
21:00 < dantalizing> that needs to be turned on
21:00 < maxolase1squad> planet +1
21:00 < reya276> did you bring up the wordPress issue
21:01 < crashsystems> I did
21:01 < dantalizing> reya276: crashsystems mentioned it
21:01 < reya276> k
21:01 < mhall119> dantalizing: what do we want to accomplish?  Increase awareness?  Increase usage?  Increase local support?
21:01 < reya276> and...
21:01 < dantalizing> mhall119: all of the above, and increase involvement
21:01 < mhall119> that's  a very broad goal
21:01 < dantalizing> when we need rsvp, we need to *not* use the wiki
21:01 < maxolase1squad> I would like a forum on our website.
21:01 < roadmap> where does UbuntuFlorida fit in?
21:01 < reya276> well I say increase awareness and increase usage
21:02 < roadmap> dantalizing: +1 on the RSVP Wiki issue.
21:02 < shmolf> +1 forum
21:02 < mhall119> so, something like MeetUp, only free
21:02 < dantalizing> again, wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/WebSite for a current charter
21:02 < crashsystems> possible plan of action: #1 get a WP install set up, using a generic but usable theme. #2 start getting content (useful pages, blog
                      posts going). #3 (done in parallel to #2) get a more permanent theme developed. #4 get planet, forum, etc running
21:02 < Michelle_Qimo> an RSVP on the forum would be nice
21:02 < reya276> local support, well I'm not the king of support, but I tell you what most of you guys are already here all the time during the day
21:03 < dantalizing> -1 on forum
21:03 < dantalizing> we have a forum already
21:03 < dantalizing> on ubuntuforums
21:03 < reya276> at night crashsystems and igore is usually around
21:03 < crashsystems> good point
21:03 < itnet7> I think that eventbrite would be better than rsvp on the site
21:03 < roadmap> dantalizing: Why don't we make Ubuntu Forums the place you RSVP? Click a button and your name is on the list.
21:03 < roadmap> Establish the use of Open ID so everyone with a launchpad account can use the site/automatically register.
21:03 < crashsystems> whatever is used for RSVP, iCal support I think is a must.
21:03 < dantalizing> itnet7: we could use eventbrite, but a reseveration is just a form and a db entry
21:03 < mhall119> +1 iCal
21:03 < roadmap> And implement things like support for indeti.ca
21:03 < maxolase1squad> dantalizing: I forgot about that.  Very true.
21:04 < reya276> well no because I think we would want to keep that separate
21:04 < dantalizing> ok i urge you all to add ideas to teh website project page
21:04 < shmolf> a forum would be good for making comments visible for us offline users
21:04 < roadmap> I'm in the feature creep side of things :(
21:04 < shmolf> for local stuff
21:04 < crashsystems> prioritizing the ideas will be a plus
21:04 < crashsystems> must*
21:05 < dantalizing> crashsystems: hence the request to add ideas to the website project page
21:05 < reya276> I think we should start using the Ubuntu Florida forum more often, I mean is already there
21:05 < mhall119> okay, so everyone get over to the Wiki and start slamming it full of ideas
21:05 < DixieDancer> +1
21:05 < itnet7> sounds good to me add ideas to the website project page!! +1
21:05 < roadmap> But I'm bad at ideas !
21:05 < mhall119> dantalizing: what's the link again?
21:06 < dantalizing> again, wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/WebSite for a current charter
21:06 < maxolase1squad> reya276: +1 using the forum
21:06 < crashsystems> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/WebSite
21:06 < jamesrfla> GTG all cya
21:06 < dantalizing> we currently have about 40 registered for the website, but nobody posting articles
21:06 < itnet7> bye jamesrfla
21:06 < reya276> right because its something that is already established and it already serves for providing tech support
21:06 < dantalizing> anyone who registers can author articles
21:06 < jamesrfla> bye itnet7
21:07 < dantalizing> they will be moderated by default
21:07 -!- jamesrfla [n=james@unaffiliated/jamesrfla] has quit [Remote closed the connection]
21:07  * Michelle_Qimo sends mhall119 for chinese food
21:07 < mhall119> dantalizing: when planet is running, we can feed it from qimo4kids.com and growingupfree.org
21:07  * mhall119 away
21:07 < shmolf> cya
21:08 < shmolf> got to go aswell
21:08  * crashsystems wants chinese food
21:08  * Michelle_Qimo will share
21:08  * reya276 does too
21:08 -!- shmolf [i=96b0f6a0@gateway/web/ajax/mibbit.com/x-bff7ad214dace855] has quit ["http://www.mibbit.com ajax IRC Client"]
21:08  * mhall119 won't share,
21:08 < dantalizing> there was another agenda item?
21:08 < roadmap> IRC etiquitte (if im spelling that right?) and that was itnet7
21:08 < mhall119> open discussion
21:09 < roadmap> unless theres no more to say on it
21:09 < roadmap> then yea, open discussion
21:09 < Michelle_Qimo> someone said something about discussing the build day
21:09 < itnet7> go on to open discussion
21:09 < roadmap> mhall119 brought that up last night and I also thought that would be a good idea
21:09 < DixieDancer> build day?
21:09 < DixieDancer> build day?
21:09 < Michelle_Qimo> Qimo
21:09 < dantalizing> Michelle_Qimo: you're up
21:09 < Michelle_Qimo> Build day
21:09 < roadmap> I think we should just inform the people about What Build day is, when it is, and ask them to attend :)
21:09 < Michelle_Qimo> May 23rd
21:09 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
21:09 < Michelle_Qimo> We
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> we're putting together a build day - to build a bunch of Qimo machines.
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> It's May 23rd, 9 am - in Lakeland, Crestview Baptist Church
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> and will run to about 2 pm
21:10 < dantalizing> do we need to bring power, kb, monitors, anything?
21:10 < dantalizing> food? drinks?
21:10 < dantalizing> computers?
21:10 < roadmap> I love free thinkers.
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> We'd like all of you to attend, if possible, and bring any and all old spare parts/bits/etc
21:10 < roadmap> This room is full of the
21:11 < roadmap> them ^
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> if you come, I promise to feed you
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> i'm thinking lasagna
21:11 < dantalizing> cupcakes?
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> and cupcakes
21:11 < roadmap> Home Made Cheesecake
21:11 < pak33m> mmm, cupckaes
21:11 < crashsystems> cupcake on my G1
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> I have a special cupcakes for that
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> They're penguins
21:11 < dantalizing> liver?
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> no liver
21:11 < maxolase1squad> Guiness?
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> if you must
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> :-)
21:12 < roadmap> Beer at a Church?
21:12 < maxolase1squad> :)
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> um...
21:12 < roadmap> Haha
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> I won't tell if you don't
21:12 < roadmap> Hope they're baptist :(
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> They are
21:12 < dantalizing> God will know
21:12 < roadmap> They shouldn't mind then.
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> Yeah, well, He can cope
21:12 < roadmap> According to Michael these people thought Harry Potter was the spawn of satan or something.
21:12 < roadmap> So Beer may be pushing it.
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> They do
21:12 < Michelle_Qimo> They're strange folk
21:13 < roadmap> So much for wearing a wizard outfit.
21:13 < DixieDancer> nothing about this in the forum - there should be! plz post it in our LoCo team forum... i bet alot of lurkers might take interest
21:13 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: what do you all plan to do with the machines you build
21:13 < Michelle_Qimo> someone linky-doo me the link to where all you want me to post, please
21:13 < DixieDancer> gimme a sec
21:14 < dantalizing> http://florida.ubuntuforums.org/
21:14 < itnet7> Originally when we put stuff on the project page, we used to link back to the forum for Discussions
21:14 < Michelle_Qimo> Pak33m: we've been asked to build a 12-seat lab for a disadvantaged town in Tennessee
21:14 < pak33m> roadmap: you still have time (09:13:12 PM) roadmap: So much for wearing a wizard outfit.
21:14 < Michelle_Qimo> aah, OK, I think I see.  Still new at this whole thing
21:14 < DixieDancer> http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=225
21:14 < crashsystems> I'm out. Michelle_Qimo, don't forget about that email. I'm looking forward to seeing what such a program might entail.
21:14 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: will you take parts and pieces
21:14 < roadmap> pak33m: The people at the Church for Build Day think Harry Potter is satan. If i wore a wizard outfit I imagine they'd try to exile us from
                 the town.
21:14 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i think you said
21:15 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: yes, any bits
21:15 < Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: will email
21:15 < pak33m> roadmap: oh yeah didnt sink in
21:15 < DixieDancer> post about it there
21:15 < roadmap> Tomorrow is pay day and Wizard outfit day.
21:15 < Michelle_Qimo> DixieDancer: : will do
21:15 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i have some to bring
21:15 < roadmap> pak33m: whats the next launch party you're going to? :)
21:15 < DixieDancer> thanks!
21:15 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: would love
21:16 < Michelle_Qimo> Bring friends & relations, too - we've got about 100 towers & pieces of towers we need to sort out that day
21:16 < pak33m> roadmap: rockledge/melbourne/palm bay/itnet's house/brevard/cuban
21:16 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i have a tonne of older ram and others parts
21:16 < DixieDancer> @ Michelle_Qimo that forum is where I first learned about this team. I lurked for weeks to see if it was an active group...
21:16 < Michelle_Qimo> 12 will go to Tennessee, 12 will go to a local group of kids referred to us, 4 are going to a church (not ours), and we're working on
                       putting together some higher end machines for about 12 high schoolers
21:17 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: older RAM would be DELIGHTFUL
21:17 < DixieDancer> The more we post there, the more folks we might get to join in - lurking there like I did just to see if anyone's doing anything
                     worthwhile
21:17 < Michelle_Qimo> DixieDancer: I'm still working on locating ALL of the places I need to put things
21:17 < ptizzy> pak33m: when is the brevard party?
21:17 < roadmap> I may be able to come, if not, anyone in the orlando Area whos going I may have some machines you can take with you.
21:17 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: i have boxes full.  dont know how much works.
21:17 < Michelle_Qimo> roadmap: if nothing else, I can come to you
21:17 < DixieDancer> THANK, Michelle
21:17 < DixieDancer> ^s
21:18 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: that's OK, we'll sort it out
21:18 < pak33m> ptizzy: june 6
21:18 < roadmap> Michelle_Qimo: I wouldn't ask that. If anything I would have someone coming your grab it, or bring it myself
21:18 < roadmap> I still have to see what I have
21:18 < reya276> G-nite everyone
21:18 < itnet7> ptizzy: it's scheduled for June 6th
21:18 < Michelle_Qimo> So, the moral of this story, please let me know if you can make it in another week or two
21:18 < reya276> catch yah later dan
21:18 < itnet7> oops
21:18 < Michelle_Qimo> So I know how many to feed
21:18 < ptizzy> roadmap: I may be coming from st. cloud, if the wife approves:-)
21:18 -!- reya276 [n=reya276@c-75-74-62-51.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has left #ubuntu-us-fl []
21:18 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
21:19 < maxolase1squad> I've got a wiki and forum thread up at https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/Podcast for the podcast idea
21:19 < roadmap> ptizzy: I'm in the Orlando Area (between downtown and the airport, closer to the airport one could imagine)
21:19 < pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: mhall119 i just wanted to say thatr i think you guys are doing a really great thing
21:19 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: Thanks, we never would have thought it would go this far, so fast
21:19 < roadmap> if anyone is coming by that way and I can't make it (ill let you know in about five days), I'll see what I can donate and someone can pick
                 it up
21:19 < pak33m> roadmap: ptizzy i can carpool if you all like
21:20 < roadmap> pak33m: I would love to. I'm going to be wearing a Wizard out fit.
21:20 -!- chunkxzor [n=chunkxzo@97.104.94.232] has quit ["Leaving."]
21:20 < roadmap> outfit? Thats one word.
21:20 < itnet7> lol
21:20 < roadmap> Way to spellcheck
21:20 < Michelle_Qimo> any questions or issues - email me
21:20 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
21:20 < dantalizing> gotta run
21:20  * Michelle_Qimo is hungry, chinese food is here
21:20 < pak33m> itnet7: will they let roadmap in the cuban place with the out fit
21:20 -!- chunkxzor [n=chunkxzo@97.104.94.232] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
21:20 < roadmap> oh god
21:20 < maxolase1squad> Is our meeting officially over?
21:20 < roadmap> hahahaha
21:21 < DixieDancer> i'll bring a starfleet uniform and when the people object to the beer and wizard outfits I'll say, "computer end program." See what
                     happens
21:21 < roadmap> pak33m: thats the Melbourne party right?
21:21 < itnet7> pretty much
</pre>
