{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<itnet7> Everyone ready for the meeting???
<mhall119> oh you've got to be kidding me, "reduced functionality mode" just does away with the task bar
<dantalizing> yes
<mhall119> windows explorer and office still run
<mhall119> piece of crap
<mhall119> sorry, i'm done now
<FFEMTcJ> i guess
<mhall119> but I have a school project IRC meeting going on in another channel, so I'll be in and out
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: You can actually just sign your agenda items with -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>  on the wiki just to let you know :-P
* ** itnet7 changes topic to "Topic: 1. Starting an Ubuntu Hour in Orlando. FFEMTcJ"
<FFEMTcJ> hmm.. ok
<itnet7> show of hands sorry?
<itnet7> o/
<FFEMTcJ> Is anyone here other than the 4 of us?
<dantalizing> o/
<mhall119> 0/
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo Lupine chaynie pak33m igorgue
<FFEMTcJ> o/
<itnet7> dorgan crashsystems jamalta munz_ munz ropetin telepathy zoopster
<crashsystems> hello
<dorgan> ello
<mhall119> Michelle_Qimo is on her way
<munz_> hi
<itnet7> hey there.... (showing of hands!)
<itnet7> o/
<mhall119> hey munz_ you made it
<zoopster> \o/
<crashsystems> how shall I show my hands?
<dantalizing> o/
<itnet7> Welcome munz_ !
<munz_> yes
<crashsystems> shall I upload a picture?
<Michelle_Qimo> O/
<munz_> thanks
<Michelle_Qimo> sorry to be tardy
<itnet7> crashsystems: sure if you prefer, please ascii
<mhall119> itnet7: I added a couple of last-minute items
<FFEMTcJ> uh oh
<itnet7> give a couple of more seconds then you can start when you're ready FFEMTcJ
<pak33m> */
<mhall119> Link to tonight's agenda for everyone: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
<itnet7> mhall119: on the Agenda??
<mhall119> hey, it's pak33m!
<Michelle_Qimo> can someone link me the agenda, pretty please?
<Michelle_Qimo> never mind
<mhall119> itnet7: yup
<itnet7> we might have edited at the same time, doh!
<Michelle_Qimo> I love pak33m's asterisk head.
<itnet7> nevermind I see them
<pak33m> hey all
<crashsystems> here you go itnet7: http://drop.io/hyafxkr/asset/2009-12-01-200600-jpg'
<itnet7> Hey there pak33m !
<itnet7> Sweet!!!
<Michelle_Qimo> nice
<pak33m> itnet7: i might be in and out of the meeting but here still
<itnet7> pak33m: no problem
<FFEMTcJ> Some of us spoke in here about a week or so ago about starting an Ubuntu Hour in the Orlando area.. We need to decide a place and time to meet. I believe that there was a suggestion of Monday evenings.. We just need to pick which Monday and where..
<FFEMTcJ> Anyone local have any suggestions?
<FFEMTcJ> I would suggest the third Monday of the month.
<crashsystems> I thought the ubuntu hour thing was weekly
<dantalizing> ubuntu hour is anytime
<FFEMTcJ> We can to weekly too.. thats fine with me..
<crashsystems> ah, ok
<Michelle_Qimo> dantalizing: I thought that was happy hour
<FFEMTcJ> or bi-weekly
<mhall119> happy hour is daily
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
<crashsystems> +1
<mhall119> ubuntuhour++
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, so when & where?
<itnet7> In case anyone hasn't had a chance to read up on ubuntu hour!
<crashsystems> if you wanted to do it more frequently, you could have a rotating schedule of who does it each week
<jamalta> Hi!
<jamalta> I'm kinda around
<itnet7> Hey there jamalta !
<jamalta> Ubuntu hour is scheduled
<crashsystems> I'll not help with the orlando one though
<jamalta> crashsystems: It normally is but it's not easy to do that
<FFEMTcJ> chick-fil-a was suggested.. I don't think that'd be a good idea.. I think it'd be too busy/loud
<jamalta> I couldn't make a weekly hour I don't think
<jamalta> crashsystems: Thats a good idea
<dantalizing> crashsystems: it doesnt have to be "done"
<FFEMTcJ> crashsystems: who?
<Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 has a dislike for his laptop at the moment. He'll BRB
<FFEMTcJ> its just people get together and hang out
<FFEMTcJ> talk about whatever you want.
<itnet7> I am going to organize one here in Brevard, I will add it to list when I am sure it's feasible
<Michelle_Qimo> we can *probably* manage once a month
<crashsystems> I was under the impression that it was geared towards answering questions and providing support. Re-reading the page though, I'm not so sure.
<jamalta> I agree with once a month. We can grow it from there if it's successful but jta a great start
<jamalta> crashsystems: Thats the idea
<tiemonster> o/
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: i think i could make it every week
<jamalta> But I don't think we will have people showing up every time other than us :)
<tiemonster> sry - baby was crying
<FFEMTcJ> I was hoping there would be more people here for this discussion.. I'd be willing to meet pretty much whenever.. if anyone local wants to give me a call, I can normally go..
<FFEMTcJ> pak33m: my schedule would be every third week I couldnt make it..
<itnet7> crashsystems: One of the guys that started it (MagicFab) said it could be thought of similar to a happy hour!
<jamalta> I can talk to greg pollak to get it added in the cfl tech calendar
<FFEMTcJ> pak33m: im fine however with doing weekly..
<FFEMTcJ> Would Cup o soul be a good place?
<FFEMTcJ> do they have wifi?
<jamalta> FFEMTcJ: Yes
<FFEMTcJ> we could also do starbucks
<jamalta> And I like that place
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: i know there are a few of us that could make it every week or maybe even every other week
<itnet7> Please add your location and time to wiki, and we need to also make sure it gets on the Team Reports.
<FFEMTcJ> I'm cool with weekly if that is what we decide..
<FFEMTcJ> Will do itnet7
<FFEMTcJ> pak33m: you want to do mondays?
<FFEMTcJ> jamalta: ^
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: yeah cup o soul, stardust, borders (wifi is not too hot)
<Michelle_Qimo> if you're gonna do it once a week - you might want to check with the venue, verify that they're OK to have a once-a-week group come in
<jamalta> I think Mondays will work
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: just make sure everyone knows that it's a come when available/able and that not everyone is expected to hit them all unless they want to
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: monday is good
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: def..
<jamalta> Michelle_Qimo: Good point
<FFEMTcJ> 7pm sound good? earlier, later?
<jamalta> I can make that
<jamalta> I have to get running now. Sorry. Let me know what happens
<Michelle_Qimo> we could swing one Monday a month, 7ish
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: 7 pm is a good time
<itnet7> jamalta: thanks for swinging in! :-)
<tiemonster> 7pm in Orlando on a Monday night? Hmm...
<FFEMTcJ> I'll contact Cup O Soul tomorrow, and find out if they would be ok with it..
<itnet7> Cool
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: i mean you could put it out there mailing list, wiki, etc and see how it goes
<Michelle_Qimo> is Cup O Soul at 7 pm gonna be family friendly?
<FFEMTcJ> ive never been there Michelle_Qimo
<pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: maybe not wed night
* Michelle_Qimo plays Devil's Advocate.
<FFEMTcJ> pak33m: are you suggesting send to the mailing list for suggestions, or advertise it on mailing list?
* ** mhall1191 is now known as mhall119
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: yeah push the info about it like we would any other event that we do
<itnet7> I would run it by the staff at Cup of Soul, ask them what night they are less crowded
<FFEMTcJ> I will give them a call tomorrow.. And we can go from there..
<itnet7> depending on the number of people that want to participate, sounds good FFEMTcJ
<Michelle_Qimo> sounds like a plan to me
<pak33m> cup o soul is not open on sunday just so we all know
<FFEMTcJ> any other discussion?
<itnet7> pak33m: right, even if they tell you they are, we know better, eh?
<pak33m> itnet7: hehe yeah
<itnet7> :-)
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: let me know if you need any helpo with it cos i live right dfown the street from cup o soul
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: or with it in general
<FFEMTcJ> pak33m: sounds good..
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: i think we are ready for next
* ** itnet7 changes topic to "Topic: 2. Follow up on Mike's suggestion for picking a new project to support. Proposed List FFEMTcJ"
<pak33m> FFEMTcJ: its a great idea :(
<pak33m> :)
<pak33m> i meant
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<pak33m> sorry was thinking about something else
<mhall119> okay, we have 4 suggestions up on the proposed projects to support
<mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects#Proposed%20Projects%20to%20Support
<FFEMTcJ> I'm pretty much going to defer this one to mhall119 if he is here... or mhall119|eeepc which ever he is.. Last meeting he suggested we pick a project(s) to support. It was recommended that we post ideas for projects, and then talk about it this week.
<Michelle_Qimo> could someone (not me) change the status of the Birthday & Release Party on the project page?
<mhall119|work> FFEMTcJ: O',
<mhall119|work> I'm everywhere
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<mhall119> so we currently have the Florida Linux Show 2009 as having the support of Ubuntu Florida
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: will do brb
<mhall119> obviously, it's a little late now to help out with that
<dantalizing> lies
<mhall119> so I'd like to find us something new to support,and have suggested some community-focused initiatives
<tiemonster> Ubuntu Learning sounds interesting. Teaching new-comers is key to growing the community.
<crashsystems> I like the two things that involve documentation.
<mhall119> there was discussion about supporting a code project, but nobody has added any suggestions on that front
<tiemonster> mhall119: on the desktop?
<mhall119> tiemonster: anywhere
<zoopster> I'd be most interested in finding local community initiatives and find a way to involve ubuntu in those type of initiatives
<FFEMTcJ> zoopster: i would also agree with that.. suggestions?
<Michelle_Qimo> I still like the "Have you seen this penguin" idea proposed a while back.
<zoopster> like helping small or underprivileged schools
<Michelle_Qimo> zoopster: how about daycare facilities?
<itnet7> If any of you see outdated info feel free to move it, for example both the b-day bash and FLS2009 can be moved to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/Completed
<zoopster> why not? those are usually for profit ventures with more money than they lead on
<mhall119> My intention was to find something that was already being run, and help them out
<itnet7> I am moving them now, but in the future
<zoopster> and most local community initiatives are already being run
<itnet7> many hands lighten the load, and everyone has edit rights to the wiki :-)
<mhall119> it was more to help another project, than to create a new one
<Michelle_Qimo> zoopster: I was thinking along the lines of the very small, two-room or at-home facilities
<itnet7> mhall119 and zoopster they both sound like great ideas!
<zoopster> so your definition of project mhall119 is a ubuntu project like docs, code, bugs, etc
<mhall119> we don't have to choose between the two either
<mhall119> zoopster: yes
<mhall119> a way for our LoCo to contibute to some other part of the Ubuntu community that already exists
<zoopster> then in that vein...bugsquad needs the most help
<FFEMTcJ> we can do one on a more gloabl (docs code bugs) and one on a local level
<FFEMTcJ> or more
<mhall119> there are so many under-staffed projects out there
<mhall119> zoopster: is that something we can have a focused contribution to?
<zoopster> why not...we did before
<Michelle_Qimo> We should probably get one - bugsquad, etc - in mind, and get to actively contributing regularly, before we spread out into multiple areas.
<zoopster> when the group was focused on bugs we were the top squashers for a few months
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119|work: .. which ever you are.. we can all (or a group of us) work on being mentored and joining the bugsquad.. im currently in the mentorship
<mhall119> zoopster: isn't that more of a multitude of very-short projects?
<mhall119> zoopster: oh, okay
<mhall119> zoopster: add it to the list
<mhall119> I'd like to put up a poll sometime soon
<mhall119> so we can vote
<zoopster> well...don't use the ubuntu-fl.org poll gadget
<zoopster> it doesn't work
<FFEMTcJ> get a new poll gadget
<mhall119> oh, okay, it used to
<itnet7> I think that not everyone likes bugs... so maybe if we are going to do a LoCo focused it should be something else that everyone could contribute to with their talents
<itnet7> I dig bugs
<itnet7> well triaging bugs
<zoopster> it never has worked right
<mhall119> itnet7: that was my thought, make it something our non-technical members can be involved in
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: i dont believe we are going to find something that everyone could contribute to
<zoopster> FFEMTcJ: agree
<dantalizing> zoopster: whats wrong iwth it
<FFEMTcJ> uh oh.. you woke the beast zoopster
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: that isn't really true
<itnet7> look at build days
<itnet7> Installfests
<zoopster> the results are skewed big time
<dantalizing> the total is off
<Michelle_Qimo> I'll organize the heck out of whatever needs organizing.
<dantalizing> i'll switch it
<zoopster> look at the current poll dantalizing
<mhall119> for things like ubuntu-learning or ubuntu-ngo, there will be a combination of documentation, activism and coding
<mhall119> some of us are good with gimp (or, dare I say it, photoshop)
<itnet7> what's wrong with -63%?
<FFEMTcJ> bye bye gimp
<mhall119> others are good at writing about an application's features and usage
<zoopster> well...it does make it 100% total
<zoopster> but it's not correct
<zoopster> my opinion fwiw is to have 2-3 projects with project leads to drive them which use different skills
<zoopster> an advocacy project to spread the word, a coding project for you coder geeks and another tbd
<mhall119> zoopster: projects that are ours, or projects that belong to someone else that we're contributing to?
<mhall119> ubuntu-ngo is advocacy
<mhall119> so is ubuntu-learning and the user days
<zoopster> mhall119: you said not to create new projects..so they would belong to someone else with that definition
<mhall119> ok
<zoopster> I know nothing about any of those projects so I'm just throwing things over the fence because I'm here
<zoopster> and it's quiet
<mhall119> and we love to hear from you :)
<itnet7> I think that we can have micro-projects, but I do think it's important to also do larger projects like the build days, and FLS support
<zoopster> I can tell...total silence
<itnet7> things like that help for the synergy of the team
<mhall119> well yes, we're gonna keep doing build days and shows
<mhall119> I just wanted something where we contribute back to another part of the community that needs it
<Michelle_Qimo> whaddid I miss?
* Michelle_Qimo is back.
<itnet7> mhall119: gotcha
<mhall119> anyway, lets keep coming up with projects we can help and add them to the list
<Michelle_Qimo> Oh, speaking of build days...
<itnet7> that sounds like a plan!!
<mhall119> zoopster: if you know of some out-right advocacy projects, let's get them up there
<Michelle_Qimo> How does February look for everyone?
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: saw it
<itnet7> the linux against poverty build day?
<Michelle_Qimo> no, one for ud
<itnet7> is that here? or Texas?
<Michelle_Qimo> us
<itnet7> oh, whew!!
<mhall119> itnet7: are they doing a global build day this time around?
<itnet7> Nice!!
<itnet7> I skimmed the e-mail
<mhall119> last time they wanted to make it global, but decided to focus on local only for the first one
<Michelle_Qimo> I didn't pay much attention to their dates.
<Michelle_Qimo> But, we've got a waiting list of kids - and it's growing fairly quickly - and I need to start next year's cycle
<itnet7> One thing that was mentioned at UDS was hug days happening globally, and wanting community to help step up to organize them
<mhall119> itnet7: that's a good one
<Michelle_Qimo> hug days?
<itnet7> I will add it
* Michelle_Qimo is a hugger
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: it's when you show special attention to a project that has lots of bugs that need to get pruned at the very least
<Michelle_Qimo> aah
<Michelle_Qimo> OK
<crashsystems> like gwibber
<Michelle_Qimo> Cause I'll hug people, I'm OK with that.
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: :-)
<itnet7> so the plan is to add projects right?
<mhall119> right
<mhall119> maybe we make whichever one we pick out LoCo's New Year's Resolution
<itnet7> we can talk about this a little more after we get through the rest of the agenda if it's okay with everyone
<mhall119> sure
<Michelle_Qimo> yep
* ** itnet7 changes topic to "Topic: 3. Suggestions for Holiday Meetup(s), Installfests, etc. For December -- itnet7"
<itnet7> Okay, So my family and I would like to host some sort of a Holiday get together
<mhall119> :)
<Michelle_Qimo> what can I bring?
<Michelle_Qimo> :)
<mhall119> food
<mhall119> obviously
<FFEMTcJ> cookies
<mhall119> obviously
<mhall119> me
<mhall119> obviously
<FFEMTcJ> i thought that would wake gov up
<FFEMTcJ> guess not
<Michelle_Qimo> ROFL
<Michelle_Qimo> OK, I've got my to-do list. itnet7, when are you thinking?
<itnet7> Everyone would be invited, it's an open invitation, and we understand if you can't come (saying this in advance)
<itnet7> Uhm
<itnet7> too bad the poll is broken
<itnet7> :-)
<crashsystems> itnet7: where is it you live again?
<Michelle_Qimo> lol
<itnet7> Melbourne, Florida
<FFEMTcJ> brevard
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: you can stay here.
<Michelle_Qimo> go with
<itnet7> open invitation to the team
<zoopster> when
<itnet7> and their families
<crashsystems> so that is not much further than the halls then
<FFEMTcJ> tomorrow
<FFEMTcJ> yay!
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: you know we'll be there with bells on, unless something crazy happens.
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<Michelle_Qimo> Have Hannya call me, let me know what she needs done.
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: cool, thanks, I haven't told her I am saying all this
<Michelle_Qimo> ROFL
<FFEMTcJ> uh oh
<Michelle_Qimo> when you DO, then.
<itnet7> This is going to be a family friendly event similar to the Hall's, Drinking is only okay in moderation, unless you bring extra for us
<itnet7> j/k
<FFEMTcJ> hehe
<Michelle_Qimo> :D
<mhall119> and only if you're 21 or older
<Michelle_Qimo> hhm... strawberries are coming into season.
<itnet7> I guess before I say it's totally open I need to consult with Hannya
<itnet7> what day is good for everyone?
<Michelle_Qimo> Saturday or Sunday would be best for us.
<itnet7> How does the 19th look?
<Michelle_Qimo> That's my sister-in-law's Graduation day.
<itnet7> it seems like it can only be the 12th or the 19th
<FFEMTcJ> i guess ill be at disney possibly.. i dunno
<Michelle_Qimo> We could be there after, say, 2-ish, but I won't be much good for pre-party stuff.
<itnet7> If everyone things it will be too busy of a time we can try and do something to celebrate the New Year after the first, if it takes some pressure off
<mhall119> Hannya might appreciate that too :)
<itnet7> s/things/thinks/
<Michelle_Qimo> How about the 2nd? Or will everyone be too toasted from New Years?
<FFEMTcJ> i work the second.. but might could get it off
<mhall119> evening?
<itnet7> the party?
<mhall119> no, FFEMTcJ working
<FFEMTcJ> 24 hours
<mhall119> oh, sucks
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: you goin to pycon?
<mhall119> I wasn't aware of pycon
<mhall119> when and where?
<itnet7> Well let me talk it over with Hannya and find out how she feels, and I will e-mail all of you
<FFEMTcJ> atl, feb.. us.pycon.org
<mhall119> probably not
<itnet7> I will try to come up with a couple of dates and/or ideas
<Michelle_Qimo> sounds like a plan, itnet7. Keep me posted
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<mhall119> I'm planning on going to Scale 8x in Feb
<FFEMTcJ> scale 8x?
<mhall119> Southern California Linux Expo
<Michelle_Qimo> Southern California Linux Expo
<Michelle_Qimo> that
<mhall119> 8th annual
<FFEMTcJ> gotcha
<FFEMTcJ> wanna take me?
<Michelle_Qimo> it was amazing last year
<FFEMTcJ> hehe
<mhall119> we kicked off Qimo 1.0 there last year
* Michelle_Qimo smuggles FFEMTcJ in her suitcase
<mhall119> hoping to have 2.0 for this year
<FFEMTcJ> hehe
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, so moving on?
<itnet7> okay on to topic four sorry
* ** itnet7 changes topic to "Topic: 4. Family sub-site -- mhall119"
<Michelle_Qimo> is ooo-tay
<FFEMTcJ> ok peyton
<Michelle_Qimo> :D
<mhall119> dantalizing!
<mhall119> I still want to get a family-focused site up, for personal networking
<mhall119> I can set it up and host it
<mhall119> I just need a sub-domain pointed to my box
<Michelle_Qimo> Yes, I do too. I'm sorry I haven't gotten much time to put together much in terms of the spouses group - much going on.
<mhall119> if anyone wants to help me make it, it'll probably be drupal
* FFEMTcJ doesnt know drupal
<mhall119> I'm open to anything though
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: good chance to learn!
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<mhall119> we can go with a Java or Python framework
<mhall119> or Wordpress
<mhall119> whatever
<mhall119> I'm willing to change to about anything if someone wants to contribute
<mhall119> except .Net, sorry chaynie
<FFEMTcJ> I know WP, id be willing to work on learnin drupal
<mhall119> can we setup groups and individual blogs in WP?
<mhall119> and forums and such
<mhall119> if so, we can use wp
<FFEMTcJ> yes..
<FFEMTcJ> MU
<FFEMTcJ> so have like family.u-fl.org/hall ?
<mhall119> can people register and get a blog automatically, or would we have to set them up manually?
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: not necessarily
<FFEMTcJ> I think you can set it up to auto
<FFEMTcJ> we will talk later
<mhall119> cool
* mhall119 has a volunteer now
<FFEMTcJ> uh oh
<mhall119> too late, you showed interest
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<mhall119> you're mine now
<mhall119> sucka
<FFEMTcJ> anything else on this topic?
<FFEMTcJ> i guess i owe ya
<mhall119> nah
<FFEMTcJ> still owe you a meal or two too
<FFEMTcJ> heh
<mhall119> one of these days we'll make it over
<FFEMTcJ> ya..
* ** itnet7 changes topic to "Topic: 5. Ubuntu Membership applications being taken on the 7th"
<Michelle_Qimo> so, erm, yeah, I guess this means I need to get my wiki done
<mhall119> okay, so FFEMTcJ and zoopster are on the list for membership applications
<FFEMTcJ> meeting next week ill be at work again.. uggh
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: I should be around
<Michelle_Qimo> If someone would help me with said wiki (looks at you, mhall119) I'll be on the list, too.
<FFEMTcJ> dunno that i will tho
<mhall119> if anyone else wants to apply, we can help get wiki's setup and CoC signed and any other requirements
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, well then.
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: you should have added your name!
<FFEMTcJ> prolly too late now
<mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership/RegionalBoards/Americas
<Michelle_Qimo> eh, well, next time around then
<mhall119> it's not too late
<Michelle_Qimo> been a little preoccupied
<mhall119> the list isn't that long yet
<itnet7> You can add it now, and edit your wiki as the meeting approaches
<FFEMTcJ> ehh.. it actually isnt
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: will do that
<tiemonster> what is the purpose of this?
<itnet7> I can add you really quick
<itnet7> of what membership?
<FFEMTcJ> tiemonster: ubuntu membership
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: yes please
<tiemonster> FFEMTcJ: different from loco membership?
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership shows the entitlements
<FFEMTcJ> yes
<itnet7> it's an individual thing
<FFEMTcJ> anything else?
<dantalizing> mhall119: send me the ip and subdomain
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: what is your launchpad account name?
<mhall119> dantalizing: 24.227.64.126 and family.ubuntu-fl.org
<itnet7> the last topic is open discussion
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: without the underscores
<Michelle_Qimo> Michelle_Qimo4kids
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: is that hosted on RR?
<FFEMTcJ> would you rather put it on my server?
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: I think so
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: nope, it's an ISP's connection
<FFEMTcJ> o
<mhall119> it'll do fine
<FFEMTcJ> thought it was a cable modem
<dantalizing> mhall119: done
<FFEMTcJ> o.. i see biz now
<mhall119> it's hosting growingupfree.org, quinncoincorporated.org and qimo4kids.com
<mhall119> dantalizing: awesome, thanks
<tiemonster> and ubuntu-fl bot ;-0
<mhall119> unofficially
<tiemonster> o
<FFEMTcJ> motion to adjourn?
<Michelle_Qimo> seconded
</pre>
