{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<itnet7> Almost time :-)
<GeneralAntilles> Hello there. :)
<itnet7> Okay... so I guess we can start, even though pak33m said he won't be able to attend and he had the only agenday item
<itnet7> hey there GeneralAntilles
<mhall119> good evening
<itnet7> There isn't much on the agenda for tonight, August 8th Packaging Jam in Orlando
<itnet7> Has anyone heard about where this is going to be held?
<itnet7> how are you mhall119
<mhall119> tired
<itnet7> can we do a quick show of hands?
* itnet7 here
<mhall119> itnet7: I think they were talking about cup of soul for the packaging jam
<mhall119> but I could be wrong
* mhall119 is here
<mhall119> Michelle_Qimo ran out, she'll be back in a bit
<mhall119> I'm putting kidlets to bed, so I'll be off and on
<ropetin> Evening all
<itnet7> Cool, I do remember them mentioning that place, I saw it from outside the window, it looks like it will be cool!
<itnet7> hey there ropetin !
<ropetin> Hey itnet7, nice to see you on The Planet :)
<mhall119> itnet7: yeah, as long as they'll be open that day
* ropetin has been hiding lately, blame the wife and work!
<itnet7> :-P
<itnet7> no prob, ropetin
<ropetin> Thanks
<itnet7> it should be open, the hours listed sat. being open
* remu is here!
<itnet7> hey there remu!
<mhall119> itnet7: it was a joke about the last time
<itnet7> mhall119: I know, I can't laugh and type on irc until they get an audio plugin
<itnet7> :-P
<mhall119> empathy doesn't have that?
<itnet7> I guess I could have did that
<itnet7> not for IRC
<remu> hey itnet7
<mhall119> I thought empathy was teh awesome
<itnet7> Hey there remu how are you?
<remu> I'm pretty good thanks. Finally able to make it to one of these meetings now that school is done.
<itnet7> Well, I haven't seen too many people crash empathy
<itnet7> good to hear remu1
<itnet7> !
<mhall119> itnet7: I haven't seen too many people use empathy
<itnet7> That's because it's a personal IM client :-)
<itnet7> I am using it right now, for IM only...
<mhall119> it'd be better if it was written in C#
<itnet7> still using irssi and screen
<itnet7> c-sharp
<itnet7> ?
<itnet7> So remu sorry tonight is the night that you finally get here, and we don't have a stack of agenda topics
<remu> Ha, that's quite alright.
<mhall119> sorrty
<itnet7> ROFL
<mhall119> can't you just put XPDE on them and claim to be finished?
<itnet7> remu, I didn't even think about that compatability issue
<itnet7> I don't think out of the windows users that I know that any of them use anything but msn messenger or whatever it is and that has audio/video already
<remu> True, but I haven't been able to find any program other than aMSN that handles audio or video for MSN on linux. And I'm just not a big fan of aMSN. Everyone seems to have a Google Account, so I figured it would be easier to get them to use that rather than to convince them to sign up for something else.
<itnet7> Yeah, so does it work for you with other linux users then?
<remu> Haven't tried.
<itnet7> did you install: telepathy-sofiasip
<itnet7> mhall119: I wish
<itnet7> what is your yahoo account nick?
<itnet7> is it remu?
<remu> my yahoo is remu@rocketmail.com
<itnet7> mhall119: I was hoping by now that someone else would have been hired to do this part of my job
<itnet7> oh, crap
<itnet7> sorry meant gmail
<itnet7> add me
<mhall119> itnet7: are they hiring?
<itnet7> itnet7atgmail.com
<itnet7> mhall119: that's the problem they aren't
<mhall119> so, is it open-mic night now?
<itnet7> Pretty much
<remu> itnet7 umer.m.farooq@gmail.com
<mhall119> okay
<mhall119> just wanted to remind everyone again about the Youth Build Day we'll be hosting in Lakeland on the 15th
<mhall119> Link: http://growingupfree.org/wiki/index.php/At-Risk_Youth_Build_Day
<mhall119> if you plan on coming, please take a look at the inventory list on that page and let me know what you can bring to donate
<dantalizing> is there a post on the website?
<dantalizing> sorry ... the -fl website?
<mhall119> also, if you plan on staying for some incredibly delicious home-cooked lasagna at our place after the event, RSVP at the link provided so we know how many mouths to feed
<mhall119> dantalizing: not yet
<mhall119> I can have Michelle_Qimo make one
<itnet7> Nice!
<itnet7> mmmmm lasagna
<mhall119> we're going to get some P3 and P4 towers from Clearwater on saturday for the build day, but we're still in need of more systems, if anyone has some
<mhall119> we're in desperate need of speakers, any old cheap pair will do, we just need something to play sound
<mhall119> also surge protectors/power strips, we'll be needing several of those
<mhall119> also, I have an empty table at that page for any extra pieces/parts that you want to bring, just to kind of get an idea of what we'll have
<itnet7> mhall119: I will have to inventory the stuff I'm going to bring when I get some time
<mhall119> okay
<itnet7> mhall119: are those to borrow or to have?
<mhall119> it's not strictly necessary, it's just so I can know ahead of time if I need to scrounge up some extra parts to bring
<mhall119> itnet7: sorry, these are all to leave
<itnet7> Do you guys need some for when you do this?
<itnet7> Okay
<itnet7> Just trying to think of what I can try and take with me that would help
<mhall119> anything that won't be left at the children's home will be used for other donations through QuinnCo
<mhall119> lastly, if anyone wants a CRT monitor, I'll give you 5
<mhall119> or as many as your car can carry
<mhall119> including the roof rack
<itnet7> ROFL mhall119 !!
<mhall119> okay, that's all I had
<mhall119> itnet7: if you want to bring some promotional material for FLS, feel free, there'll be a lot of tech-minded people there
<mhall119> oh, and Jaunty CDs too
<mhall119> if you have any left
<Michelle_Qimo> Hi all!
<itnet7> I will double-check, but I think I gave them all away at that Brevard Users group meeting I held last week
<itnet7> I am putting in for a conference pack
<itnet7> for FLS
<mhall119> zoopster: have you gotten any more CDs?
<itnet7> alf
<Michelle_Qimo> Sorry I'm tardy. Anything exciting going on?
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: nothing to speak of
<Michelle_Qimo> for shame
<itnet7> We discussed the package jam, and the build day!
<Michelle_Qimo> ooo
<Michelle_Qimo> :-)
<Michelle_Qimo> exciting!
<itnet7> it is!
<Michelle_Qimo> indeed
<itnet7> Trying to think whether or not it's a good idea to bring mi familia
<Michelle_Qimo> sure thing
<remu> I was wondering if someone could think up a solution for me. Currently we have all of the family photographs stored on the home fileserver which is running Ubuntu server edition. All the computers can access the photo directory via nautilus thanks to NFS, but I was wondering if there was a way to get something like a shared f-spot database or something setup so that i could fire up f-spot (or some other program) make the changes i n
<remu> eed, such as editing, importing, or whatever else, and then maybe my sister could get open up the program on her laptop and the database would be updated, and any changes she made would carry over for me too.
<Michelle_Qimo> we're meeting wtih the facility director on Monday to get a better idea of what is available.
<remu> Or is that just asking for too much?
<itnet7> cool Michelle_Qimo
<mhall119> remu: I think that's one of the things they hope to accomplish with DesktopCouch
<itnet7> remu: picasa would allow for you to do that if you need to do it now
<itnet7> I am not sure about allowing other accounts to edit though
<mhall119> remu: if everyone is using Linux, they can run run f-spot on the server and forward the display to their computer
<remu> everyone is running linux
<mhall119> there you go then
<remu> but the server doesnt have any gui components installed. is there a guide or something i could look at for such information mhallll9? the server is older hardware, so i don't know how well it would fair with such an endeavour.
<mhall119> remu: you'd need all the Mono dependencies, but the server itself wouldn't need to be running X
<remu> sudo apt-get install f-spot ought to do the trick then after ssh-ing into the server?
<mhall119> in theory, yes
<mhall119> where does f-spot store it's data? In a database or does it use filesystem attributes?
<itnet7> http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-928596.html
<remu> I believe it's a database. I haven't really used f-spot. I just know it comes default with Ubuntu and I tried configuring it but couldn
<itnet7> haven't read the whole thing, but
<remu> 't make heads or tails of it.
<mhall119> looks like it's ~/.gnome2/f-spot/photos.db
<mhall119> I wonder if that can be changed to point to a location on NFS
<remu> itnet7 that seems to be exactly what i need it to do.
<itnet7> I might try it too :-)
<dantalizing> 'sup linuxcrypt
<remu> itnet7 the reason i would prefer an f-spot solution over picasa is then i could then use the f-spot screen saver and have all the photos in a centralized location rather than spread around amongst different computers.
<itnet7> remu: I agree f-spot would be much better, just wasn't sure that you/we would be able to do it that way!
<remu> yeah, reading the post it seems do-able. Just need to read through it and figure out how to setup the folder and mounts.
<linuxcrypt> dantalizing: what's up dude
<dantalizing> its meeting night!
<linuxcrypt> meeting night?
<dantalizing> here in -fl and over in -us in 7 mins
<itnet7> Nice remu !
<itnet7> hey there linuxcrypt !
<itnet7> how are you dantalizing ??
<remu> itnet7, now the question is...how do we define where to store the database, rather than the default location
<dantalizing> itnet7: sleepy
<dantalizing> itnet7: been looking at flights to pdx ... i'm gonna buy mine soon
<itnet7> dantalizing: both to ATL and PDX?
<linuxcrypt> inet7: what up gangsta?
<dantalizing> just pdx
<itnet7> you're driving to alf, then?
<itnet7> or are you not able to go?
<dantalizing> taking the whole fam to atl
<dantalizing> so driving
<Michelle_Qimo> ooo, dantalizing roadtripping it
<Michelle_Qimo> have fun with that
<linuxcrypt> <-- is addicted to Dexter, Entourage, and gaming.. needs to unplug
<itnet7> linuxcrypt: I told you dexter was the bomb, can't wait until the new season starts
<itnet7> :-P dantalizing
<linuxcrypt> inet7: yup, defintiely right about that
<dantalizing> i'm addicted to wheres waldo, family guy, and ut2004
<juggalo4271> anyone running firefox 3.5.2 have problems with flash crashing on full screen mode
<itnet7> sorry juggalo4271 I am using 3.5.3-pre
<itnet7> It doesn't seem to do that for me
<juggalo4271> i have had this problem since 3.5
<juggalo4271> everytime i try to full screen, it takes down the whole program
<dantalizing> chromium ftw
<jblount> juggalo4271: I can confirm the same problem with 3.5 on Jaunty and Karmic.
<remu> itnet7, I believe I have figured it out!
<juggalo4271> glad to know i am not the only one
<itnet7> juggalo4271: do you have compiz enabled?
<itnet7> Nice remu !
<juggalo4271> itnet7: yes i do
<itnet7> does it crash when you disable compiz?
<juggalo4271> itnet7: have not tried it
<juggalo4271> itnet7: no it does not crash if compiz is disabled
<itnet7> Well, I am sure it's been reported in launchpad already, but you can do a quick search if you want and add your $0.02 to let them know you are affected as well, if you want to
<juggalo4271> just noticed it opened 3.0.12 not 3.5.2
<itnet7> well have to head out, talk with you guys soon!
</pre>
