{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date''' - July 10, 2016
* '''Team Contact''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~alanbir|Alan Birstok]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~itnet7|Chris Crisafulli]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~michelleq|Michelle Hall]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aaronhoneycutt|Aaron Honeycutt]]</nowiki>
* '''Launchpad Membership''' - 417 as of 10 July, 2016
* '''Launchpad Team''' - https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida
* '''Mailing List''' - ubuntu-us-fl on lists.ubuntu.com
* '''IRC''' - #ubuntu-us-fl on freenode

==== Meetup Group Established ====

* '''Date''' - Established November 6, 2015
* '''Organizers''' - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~aaronhoneycutt|Aaron Honeycutt]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~itnet7|Chris Crisafulli]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mhall119|Michael Hall]]</nowiki>
* '''Meetup Group Membership''' - 143 as of 10 July, 2016

==== Roadmap ====

/* We need to put where we see the team heading for the future here, I am sure it will be more Ubuntu Hours, Meetups, and Release parties. If there are any plans to participate in other events like the Race, and such put ideas */

We are working on a <nowiki>[[http://www.meetup.com/ubuntufl/events/232476693/ | Ubuntu Women Day]]</nowiki> at a local University (Keiser) on July 20th. We are also planning Ubuntu related workshops/classes and talks there. 

We also plan to have more Ubuntu Hours, Release Parties for 16.10, and other team get-togethers. As we move forward, we will try and encourage others all over the state to host a few events too. Software Freedom Day (Sept. 19th) is also another event that we have participated in the past, by doing presentations and gatherings.

==== Shows & Events ====

* Fossetcon 2014 (Ubucon) Presentations and Booth during the rest of the weekend.
* Fossetcon 2015 (Ubucon) Presentations and Booth during the rest of the weekend.
* South East Linux Fest 2015 Ubucon, Booth, and Presentations
* South East Linux Fest 2016 Booth, and Presentations

==== Photos ====

* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-photos-26864688-#448528986 | 16.04 Release BBQ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-photos-26657842- | Ft. Lauderdale Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--www.dropbox.com-sc-zgyjweqedqw1pf0-AABSvAOxBOOronJQkW_bhVYaa | 15.10 Release Party ]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[ https:--goo.gl-photos-NLfFWaFSmnx2LQvF6 | Ubuntu Florida @ Fossetcon 2014 ]]</nowiki>

==== Meetings & Experience ====

* <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-events-ubuntu-us-florida-3199-ubuntu-1510-release-party- | Ubuntu 15.10 Release Party]]</nowiki> - Saturday Oct 24, 2015
* <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-events-ubuntu-us-florida-3172-global-jam-wily-cycle- | Global Jam Wily Cycle]]</nowiki> - Saturday Aug 8, 2015
* <nowiki>[[ http:--loco.ubuntu.com-events-ubuntu-us-florida-2998-south-florida-app-dev-school- | SF App Dev School]]</nowiki> - Friday Feb 6, 2015
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-226598174- | Ubuntu Hour Wilton Manors]]</nowiki> - Saturday November 7, 2015
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-226598401- | UbuCon @ FOSSETCON ]]</nowiki> - Thursday November 19, 2015
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-227172317- | Ubuntu Hour Fl LoCo ]]</nowiki> -  Saturday December 5, 2015
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-227688804- | Ubuntu Hour Ft Lauderdale ]]</nowiki> - Saturday January 9, 2016 
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-228195214- | Ubuntu Hour Sushi! ]]</nowiki> - Saturday January 23, 2016
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-228501656- | Ft. Lauderdale Ubuntu Hour ]]</nowiki> - Saturday February 6, 2016
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-229537724- | Ubuntu Hour Miami ]]</nowiki> - Saturday March 19, 2016
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-229585666- | Ubuntu 16.04 Release Party!!! ]]</nowiki> - Sunday April 3, 2016
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-230531222- | Ubuntu Hour Miami ]]</nowiki> - Sunday April 24, 2016
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-230774908- | Ubuntu Hour Pembroke Pines ]]</nowiki> - Saturday May 7, 2016
* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.meetup.com-ubuntufl-events-230997491- | Ubuntu Hour Ft Lauderdale ]]</nowiki> - Saturday May 21, 2016

==== Community Participation ====

* <nowiki>[[ http:--www.autismspeakswalk.org-faf-search-searchTeamPart.asp?ievent=1148393&lis=1&kntae1148393=1F702E7F8EE34AE5AA4A581706093238&team=6634569 | Ubuntu FL Autism Speaks 5K ]]</nowiki> - Saturday March 3, 2016

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
