{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IRC Logs from January 20, 2009 meeting: 
<pre>
<itnet7> Can we do a quick roll call to try and see who's actually present?
* itnet7 I'm here!
* pak33m|work1 is leavin - well, work that is
* dantalizing waves
<itnet7> Okay.. I guess everyone is so excited they can't type :-)
<dantalizing> lies
<dantalizing> they just cant type
<itnet7> I guess we can start, Here is the link for the meetings, if you scroll down you will see we have four items on the agenda https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<itnet7> Wow... seriously tough crowd... should we wait for some more discussion in general before starting?
<dantalizing> ive had meetings by myself before
<itnet7> Wow, we need to try and change that.... is there a quick way of sending a nudge to everyone in the channel? like a script or something?
<dantalizing> i dont have one
<itnet7> Ok... bear with me
<itnet7> [pnp]tomas ANTrat Ax3 CardinalFang Catsceo Chaosfactor clintc clinctc_home Cozma DigitalUN fauxhawk ianmcorvidae LupServer MianoSM Sindacious statik youri zbrown zoopster zzzzZZZZzzz Are you guys around?
<MianoSM> Yes I am.
<MianoSM> Thanks for the ping!
<Sindacious> ohai
<itnet7> Sorry guys but your input is valuable :-)
<itnet7> Lets give it a couple of more min.'s then we'll get started, k?
<Catsceo> BOOM
<Catsceo> bah, didn't know about the meeting
<itnet7> Sorry Catsceo, we will do a better job of giving notice. but we are going to try to have more regular meetings based on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings (Schedule)
<itnet7> Do you have time Cats?
<Catsceo> yeah, I'm good
<itnet7> Cool
<itnet7> dantalizing you have the floor!
<itnet7> :-)
<dantalizing> We're doing a Bug Jam in Miami on 2/21
<dantalizing> to coincide with the Ubuntu Global Bug Jam
<dantalizing> and afterward we're just gonna go out for a social meetup
<dantalizing> at the moment we have confirmed Brikolodge as the Bug Jam location
<dantalizing> and we are targeting Titanic Brewery as the meetup place
<dantalizing> I'm still looking for alternative places for the Bug Jam, so if yo know someone in Miami
<dantalizing> please, let me know
<itnet7> I think ropetin is from Miami....
<dantalizing> so far we have 8 confirmed for the Jam
<Catsceo> *crickets*
<itnet7> I know it's kind of far for a lot of people... but bear in mind, that when/if you have events
<dantalizing> no, no crickets have confirmed
<itnet7> and you want people to go
<CardinalFang> Jam when?
<dantalizing> CardinalFang: 2/21 Brikolodge in Miami
<dantalizing> the 2/22 BarCamp!
<CardinalFang> Ah, dang.
<dantalizing> so itnet7 i'll fill out the project page and send a notice out to the mailing lists
<dantalizing> i'll do that tomorrow
<itnet7> CardinalFang where are you located? out of curiousity?
<itnet7> Thanks Dan... I will add that to our Gobby document :-)
<itnet7> Can everyone please update their locations on the team Roster in Launchpad
<mhall119> I had my location in there, did it get lost?
<itnet7> that we we can better coordinate carpools
<CardinalFang> <- Orlando
<itnet7> Mhall119, I should have said double check them for Accuracy
<itnet7> :-)
<mhall119> gotcha
<itnet7> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida <--- this is where we need the doublecheck
<mhall119> hey, there's someone else from lakeland
<dantalizing> bordy
<itnet7> Currently have @170 Members and 127 of them need locations
<dantalizing> he's a ghost though
<dantalizing> well they cant all stay at my house
<Catsceo> how do you set locations?
* CardinalFang is going to dantalizing's house.
<CardinalFang> Right now.
<itnet7> Catsceo you have to login to Launchpad and click on Do it for them now
<Catsceo> k
<MianoSM> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Roster
<MianoSM> Is way out of date.
<dantalizing> MianoSM: that is the old school way of joining the team
<dantalizing> LP supercedes that page
<Catsceo> ok, why am I not on the map and not listed as someone without a location
<dantalizing> someone should probably add a comment to the top of that page and say its deprecated.. and add a link to the launchpad site for someone who wants to join the team
<itnet7> CatsCEO, actually after you login to Launchpad you can set your location in your profile, it should automatically update it for the team
<Catsceo> oh
<dantalizing> hint hint MianoSM
<Catsceo> well it doesn't
<Catsceo> mine is set but doesn't appear on the team page
<MianoSM> I thought only MS deprecated stuff. :(
<Catsceo> wait, nm
<Catsceo> I hid mine
<itnet7> Ah....that explains it
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> https://launchpad.net/~<Your_LP_USERNAMEHERE>/+editlocation
<youri> i want to add myself!
<dantalizing> youri is awake and igorgue joined
<dantalizing> nice
<Catsceo> better late then never igorgue
<dantalizing> sorry i didnt get those hooters pics to you igorgue
<itnet7> Catsceo... don't be rude... :-P
<igorgue> :'(
<Catsceo> :P
<igorgue> Catsceo: is not rude, I'm the badass here :P
<Catsceo> ORLY
<itnet7> Does anyone have any questions about the FLorida linux Show?
<itnet7> Is everyone planning on attending the Jacksonville show on March 9th?
<igorgue> YRLY!
<dantalizing> I will be there
<dantalizing> and Smita
<itnet7> I knew that you were going silly
<MianoSM> <---Plans on attending.
<dantalizing> sweet
* Catsceo can't
<youri> check out my sweet username i just set up, guys: https://launchpad.net/~omgomgomg
<dantalizing> omg
<itnet7> ROFL
<youri> so how do i join this florida team
<igorgue> couldn't see Obama speech on moonlight :(
<itnet7> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida
<dantalizing> igorgue: because mono is evil :)
<dantalizing> igorgue: hack on rhythmbox!
<igorgue> I don't care about Obama I just wanted to see Moonlight working :)
<itnet7> We are going to put a sign up area for people that want to help man the booth
<youri> okay i am in your team! ohhh yea!!!
<youri> do i get free sh*t?
<itnet7> and we were thinking about hosting a install party...
<itnet7> free what??
<youri> i want a t-shirt
<dantalizing> you get a pen
<youri> and a hat
<itnet7> You get to get involved and volunteer all of your time
<itnet7> :-)
<youri> how am i going to volunteer without a t-shirt and a hat?
<Catsceo> HA!
<dantalizing> canonical sends us like 2 shirts 1 hat 4 pens and 100 CDs
<itnet7> We will have some swag for the Florida Linux Show youri , are you planning on going?
<dantalizing> oh and some brochures
<youri> okay i'll take the two shirts
<youri> i'm in tampa :|
<Catsceo> same
<itnet7> They are reserved for people who contribute
<itnet7> :-P
<itnet7> tampa isn't that far...
<itnet7> You guys can make it!
<itnet7> We really need to try and get some support at these events, if our team is going to make a difference for Ubuntu
<MianoSM> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Roster updated. Decent?
<youri> when is the next thing that is closer to tampa
<itnet7> I will be there, Dan will be at most events, and Pak... but we need others too
<dantalizing> last year we had a good turnout, i thought
<MianoSM> youri: FLS is coming to Orlando in October tentatively. :)
<youri> what's a fls
<MianoSM> Florida Linux Show
<youri> cool
<dantalizing> MianoSM: nice
<MianoSM> Kind of limited on editing that page, but it's noted at least now. ;)
<dantalizing> +1
<itnet7> Very Nice Miano Thanks!!
<itnet7> You guys will be receiving some e-mails with some links that you can use if interested
<itnet7> Ready to move on to the last topic?
<MianoSM> Where is the sign-up for FLS booth going to be?
<youri> Catsceo, you even use fios like me!
<itnet7> MianoSM we will make a sign up page and send the details through the mailing-list
<MianoSM> kk, sounds good.
<itnet7> youri what is fios?
<dantalizing> fiber
<youri> verizon's fiber optic internet
<itnet7> Oh...
<MianoSM> BNC on your desktop?
<youri> are you guys old
<itnet7> Miano...vampire taps
<itnet7> :-)
<dantalizing> thicknet ftw
<itnet7> Ways we can try and help improve participation, promote team building??
<youri> give people t-shirts
<dantalizing> more free shirts
<MianoSM> youri: what about $20 or less T-Shirts?
<youri> and bring your sister
<youri> sisters*
<itnet7> youri... show up to one event, help out, and you'll get a shirt... but your missing the point
<youri> i was just kidding guys, i don't care about a t-shirt
<itnet7> ;-)
<MianoSM> I do!
<youri> i got some ubuntu stickers!
<youri> i put one on my bumper and it fell off
<itnet7> Your bumper didn't fall of because of the sticker silly
<youri> no the sticker fell off!
<itnet7> rofl
<itnet7> I was thinking there are ways that we can locally try and help grow our team. Many hands lighten the load, The Florida Team can help the Ubuntu Project in Many ways..
<itnet7> Like at UDS, we mentioned possibly putting up fliers in Libraries, etc with team contact info, and even having a central place that all loco's can get presentations that they might want to use, so they can present at a moments notice.
<itnet7> I have created a Launchpad team called Local Community and Advocacy Presentations and Media https://edge.launchpad.net/~locoimpress for this purpose... We might not need this separate group, and if it makes sense we can move the members over to the Ubuntu Marketing Team.
<MianoSM> Having an online presentation available would be a huge boon.
<MianoSM> I know of at least one or two areas that I personally could present.
<youri> i've converted maybe 20 people to linux in my life
<itnet7> There is all that I wanted to say on the topic, but I do want to get feedback on what ideas people may have that could help us be able to contribute easieer
<itnet7> Youri, good job man!
<youri> i'm a hero
<dantalizing> you're something
<itnet7> ROFL
<dantalizing> but i signed the code of conduct
<youri> oen of the people convinced their work to switch to linux on a file server
<itnet7> I think you're the ham on a hero maybe
<youri> i think you should make it fun itnet7
<dantalizing> itnet7: i just realized a couple of days ago that spreadubuntu is trying ot put all the marketing materials in one place
<itnet7> I saw that
* Catsceo is trying to get a site up for us
<itnet7> I joined their group
<Catsceo> php is fun (not)
<dantalizing> currently as a team we have https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Marketing/Collateral
<youri> for something that has 'marketing' in it's url that seems so bland :[
<youri> it needs excitement!
<dantalizing> i didnt realize spreadubuntu had an lp team
<itnet7> This is where you can help youri!!!
<youri> by putting pictures of dragons and stars on wikis?
<youri> im not a good marketer!!!
<dantalizing> wtf ... they're using lp mailing list
<dantalizing> ugh
<itnet7> Well I was just thinking that their focus is a little more broad
<itnet7> and we can always become a subteam
<itnet7> Marketing is very important, and even the ubuntu marketing team wiki's last update was 5 or so months ago
<youri> we need a mascot
<youri> and not a manatee, i hate those
<dantalizing> i nominate my dog hax
<dantalizing> not dog hax
<dantalizing> dog, hax
<Catsceo> OH THE GREAT MANATEE
<Catsceo> wait
<Catsceo> huge*
<youri> manatees are slow and bloated, bad imagery
<Catsceo> flamingo!
<youri> gay
<Catsceo> HA!
<mhall119> itnet7: I know I missed the conversation, but I will be at the Jacksonville show, representing my charity with a vendor table
<Catsceo> FL panther?
<itnet7> youri... you have learn about the code of conduct
<MianoSM> Manatee = Natures Speed Bump. Terrible.
<youri> sorry! manatee are okay!
<itnet7> mhall119 I remember I helped you set it up :-)
<dantalizing> lol
<youri> i think the florida ubuntu mascot should be a shark
<mhall119> oh, right, ha
<itnet7> our current mascot is a ibex
<itnet7> :-)
<mhall119> youri: sharks aren't exactly known for their humanity towards others
<MianoSM> Changing every six months.
<youri> really? ibex?
<youri> that doesn't even life in florida ;[
<youri> okay than a dolphin!
<MianoSM> Nice.
<youri> he can be called baboomba, the florida ubuntu team mascot dolphin
<itnet7> Well I would like to see us try and reach more people, and we need more contributors that can help make that possible
<itnet7> I think we should create a page off the wiki for a team brainstorm....
<itnet7> And as we get ideas, we can discuss them at future meetings
<itnet7> Anyone think that is a good idea?
<MianoSM> itnet7: just my .02, but I think this group is small as is, and don't feel enthralled about joining more sub-groups of an already meager one.
<mhall119> I think we need to think about this more in terms of Florida, than Ubuntu
<youri> yea mhall!
<youri> and build florida ubuntu pride!
<itnet7> MianoSM I appreciate your input, but if we could get all 170 involved... we can achieve a lot
<MianoSM> how many of those 170 are active, I'd guess many came and went a long time ago?
<youri> flubuntu
<mhall119> itnet7: why not just make that part of the ubuntu-fl mandate?
<itnet7> it's kind of hard to hold anyone accountable with open enrollment
<mhall119> youri: sounds too much like fluxbuntu
<youri> what would you suggest
<mhall119> nothing
<itnet7> I am not focused on the 170 active/inactive members we currently have
<itnet7> the point is that we need to try and get some fresh blood in here
<youri> hi CardinalFang
<itnet7> that will do their best and contribute
<itnet7> when and where they can
<itnet7> I have a full-time job, and a family too, and I am at practically every event we decide to attend as a team
<itnet7> and on top of it 2nd and 4th Tuesday of every month I do presentations for a Windows User group's Linux SIG
<Catsceo> itnet7: I might be bringing a friend from school to the next tampa meetup, if she can go
<youri> when is the next tampa meet up!
<itnet7> So I am doing as much as I can... but we need to attract some others who want to give baack and be a part of something
<Catsceo> Feb 7
<itnet7> yup
<youri> cool
<youri> let's do this thing!
<youri> what do you guys do at meetings
<Catsceo> youri: http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/9466606/
<MianoSM> youri: get the crunch cakes, you will not be disappointed.
<youri> i say we decide on a cool tagline for florida ubuntu
<youri> that's why i like my florida jeep club!
<youri> we have cool stickers and logos and such
<mhall119> itnet7: you know about my charity, I've heard from someone in Tallahassee that is doing something similar, maybe that kind of de-centralized giving is the answer
<vigo> Hello,,new one here
<itnet7> Hey there vigo
<itnet7> welcome aboard
<MianoSM> vigo: welcome! :)
<vigo> Is NW Florida allowed or whatever
<Catsceo[EEE]> just after your speech about us needing new people, one pops up :P
<vigo> Yipee
<Catsceo[EEE]> yep
<youri> do you have to sign up on that meetup place to come to the meetup?
<Mike_Feravolo> Hello, are there any plans for our group to meet around Orlando or any Linux events scheduled for Orlando this year ?
<mhall119> Mike, October
<Catsceo[EEE]> youri: its prefered, but not I don't think so
<MianoSM> Mike_Feravolo: Florida Linux Show will be hosted in Orlando in October: http://floridalinuxshow.org
<youri> thanks
<MianoSM> .com*
<Sindacious> vigo, pretty sure
<Mike_Feravolo> That's cool
<vigo> Neato
<itnet7> they haven't decided the place yet
<mhall119> Mike_Feravolo: there's one in Jacksonville March 9th if you can make it
<itnet7> We had an intrepid release party the first week of November in Orlando
<vigo> I can sail to just about anywhere on the ICW
<itnet7> And we plan to do some more events including a Jaunty release
<mhall119> itnet7: how about a page where people give testimony and suggestions about using Ubuntu to give back to their communities
<Mike_Feravolo> Not Likely Jacksonville is a-ways away
<mhall119> I don't think any singular effort will work, but a collection of very local efforts might
<itnet7> I like a lot of your ideas mhall119!
<mhall119> Mike_Feravolo: I'm coming from Lakeland to attend
<vigo> Jax would be a bus ride for me, I do not drive cars anymore
<youri> maybe people can carpool
<youri> so we can save the environment! go flubuntu!
<mhall119> itnet7: is there something online to coordinate carpooling?
<mhall119> no flubuntu
<vigo> There are three Ubuntu users that I have assisted installing here
<itnet7> We usually do have carpool sign up's on the individual project pages.
<youri> flubuntu is going viral, mhall
<mhall119> ubuntu doesn't have viruses
<MianoSM> mhall119: really?
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/IntrepidReleaseParty
<itnet7> look at the bottom of this page and you'll see what I mean.
<vigo> DANG
<Mike_Feravolo> There's an idea for a project writing Linux viruses :-)
<mhall119> MianoSM: yes, we just have highly sophisticated self-replicating molecules
<MianoSM> Bad Bunny!
<vigo> Mike_Feravolo: that idea came out in 1981,first Virus was written on a Mac
<mhall119> itnet7: can you setup a google map, like you have for member locations, or outreach locations?
<mhall119> for outreach locations
<vigo> With virtual pins and stuff?
<Catsceo[EEE]> we discussed one earlier
<youri> guys please dont' write a virus! i am in the florida team now and i don't want to be involved in this conspiracy
<Catsceo[EEE]> its on the team launchpad page
<mhall119> of course, the virtual pins are key to the whole thing, it won't work without them
<itnet7> mhall119, I ma sure that it can be done... but really should create a proposed project on your project page
<mhall119> I have a project page?
<itnet7> hold on a sec
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects
<itnet7> it's a wiki
<itnet7> there is a proposed section... where you can put a description and contact info
<MianoSM> itnet7: get with me sometime about the ETQW server.
<vigo> I went sailing for a year after Fawn, or whatever...
<itnet7> and we can bring it up at the next meeting
<itnet7> okay MianoSM
<vigo> Ubuntu is still the best hands on , user friendly distro I have ever come across.
<itnet7> agreed vigo
<mhall119> itnet7: you want me to put QuinnCo on there?
<vigo> Oh we do have a map?
<itnet7> I think that the QuinnCo might be better suited for a full Launchpad project, you could use bazaar
<vigo> let me get my Lon/Lat readings
<mhall119> I tried bazaar on the exploded LiveCD, and it choked
<itnet7> Oh... Yeah size's
<itnet7> you can use mirrors then and re-direct from launchpad
<vigo> N 3025.7, W 08641.4
<itnet7> but your project will get a lot of help
<mhall119> I tried bzr local, and it still choked
<mhall119> I need to just create a .DEB for it, since it's just a customized Ubuntu, and put that on launchpad
<itnet7> That's the thinking!!!!
<itnet7> good idea
<Mike_Feravolo> I great project would be to get an Major Ubuntu Event to be held in Orlando, instead of some lame city like Portland Oregon.
<mhall119> but right now I'm stuck on USplash customization
<itnet7> MianoSM, in the last week 5 people at least have joined the team, now what if all five of them became as actiive as Pak33m, dantalizing, zoopster, catsceo, or me?
<MianoSM> itnet7: I'm at a loss as to the direction of your question.
<mhall119> I went to do bug triage the other day, but none of the new ones were for packages I use
<vigo> I am not sure if I joined or not,,,but will be happy to share what I know about some very old school stuff.
<itnet7> We have plans for something like that, but due to the financial hardships it's hard to try and organize something like that without support
<mhall119> vigo: does that include old school imacs?
<vigo> imacs, Altairs, TRS 80, Zenith Mainframes.
<itnet7> MianoSM, I guess I misunderstood your $.02
<vigo> and others
<mhall119> vigo: I'm trying to get Ubuntu running on an old world imac g3, but can't get the video card running above 640x480, any ideas?
<Catsceo[EEE]> mhall119: ubuntu PPC support sucks now, move to debian
<vigo> Many,,you may not want to hear them
<Catsceo[EEE]> I have Debian Etch on my iBook G3
<itnet7> catsceo, I have ubuntu intrepdi running in my PS3?
<itnet7> what is so bad about it?
<mhall119> Catsceo[EEE]: I might try that, but I have an Ubuntu derivative that I want to put on these imacs
<Catsceo[EEE]> iBook G3 is alot older than a PS3
<vigo> shall1119: Those macs were so hardware <closed> encoded, is almost better to compile a better one and use it
<Catsceo[EEE]> and I said support, not features. I would prefer ubuntu
<itnet7> http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/8.10/release/ubuntu-8.10-alternate-powerpc.iso
<mhall119> itnet7: I have the Xubuntu 8.10 CD
<mhall119> and I got it to install
<Catsceo[EEE]> tried, failed
<itnet7> http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/8.10/release/
<Catsceo[EEE]> wouldn't even boot
<mhall119> just low-res graphics
<Catsceo[EEE]> I was doing /server/
<vigo> Edit the xorg.conf?
<itnet7> For Apple Macintosh G3, G4, and G5 computers, including iBooks and PowerBooks as well as IBM OpenPower machines.
<mhall119> vigo: I'm not sure what to edit it too
<itnet7> That alternate-powerpc .iso should work
<mhall119> like I said, I got it installed, but xorg is only at 640x480
<itnet7> oh that was from the alternate cd?
<mhall119> I don't know if it's the driver, or if the monitor isn't sending the available modes
<mhall119> itnet7: yes
<mhall119> I had to stop the install mid-way and modprobe the CD driver, but other than that it went fine
<vigo> mhall119: First rule, make a backup, then look at the forums, I have seen some neato ones posted there.
<mhall119> neato what? xorg files?
<vigo> Yes
<vigo> I prefer Ruby, but have seen some in native languages that seem to work.
<itnet7> http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-978860.html
<itnet7> some of this may help
<vigo> 8.10 seems to have done alot of backwards compatability, is nifty that it did. The PPC stuff on it works rather well.
<mhall119> thanks itnet7
<marine1> itnet7, what's up dog
<itnet7> I can try and help you find a true xorg.conf file
<itnet7> hey there marine1
<marine1> what's good in da hood
<Catsceo[EEE]> end of a meeting
<MianoSM> Is the meeting over?
<Catsceo[EEE]> i donno
<vigo> I am an hour off from y'all,,,so 8 is 7 to me
<Catsceo[EEE]> I think this is one of our longer meetings
<mhall119> a panhandler huh
<itnet7> It is pretty much older
<itnet7> over
<itnet7> I meant sorry
<mhall119> are there scheduled meetings?
<n3gbz> my first one and I missed it
<vigo> I wish to thank you all for the nice welcome and need to look up the proper registration jazz and reconfigure times and stuff,,Sea ya
<Catsceo[EEE]> check the wiki and the channel for meeting dates
<vigo> Okee dokee
<vigo> Then subtract ONE hour,,,,
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<itnet7> under Schedule
<itnet7> We are going to try and do a better job with notifying the team of events through the mailing list
</pre>
