{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
20:00:01 <MootBot> Meeting started at 18:59. The chair is itnet7.
20:03:53 <MootBot> New Topic:  Anchor House Build Day -- mhall119 2009-12-08 12:26:21 
20:12:46 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Michelle_Qimo is going to update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Events/BuildDays/AnchorHouse
20:14:35 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/12044764/  <--meetup link
20:17:00 <MootBot> New Topic:  New Year's Eve Party. -- zoopster 2009-12-12 14:05:43 
20:24:34 <MootBot> ACTION received:  zoopster will add a note about the new years eve party on meetup.com
20:26:54 <MootBot> New Topic:  Large Scale Community Event in 2011, with 2 smaller events for 2010. -- itnet7 2009-12-12 14:05:43 
20:29:34 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://atlantalinuxfest.org
20:33:13 <MootBot> IDEA received:  USF polytechnic and possibly Gaineseville as choices for the smaller shows
20:35:22 <MootBot> IDEA received:  zoopster> so farther north and south might be better with the major event in the middle
20:36:37 <MootBot> IDEA received:  < mhall119> so the small shows should be used to recruit help too
20:38:35 <MootBot> IDEA received:  < itnet7> maybe we can do an open invitation to them through their mailing lists
20:40:18 <MootBot> IDEA received: [IDEA} < mhall119> itnet7: our shows need themes
20:41:28 <MootBot> IDEA received:  get a timeline of when and narrow down where, then we can pick a  theme
20:45:07 <MootBot> New Topic:  Ubuntu Hour's throughout Florida. Orlando and FFEMTcJ has started one, we can have them spread the state. -- itnet7
20:49:53 <MootBot> IDEA received:  Check into whether or not we can print Ubuntu-fl T-shirts etc....
20:50:26 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.ubuntu.com/aboutus/trademarkpolicy
20:50:47 <MootBot> ACTION received:  Zoopster will check about LoCo's printing their logos with permission
20:54:37 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
20:55:26 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://linuxsouls.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2009/11/Ubuntu_logo_new.png
20:56:33 <MootBot> New Topic:  #
20:56:49 <MootBot> New Topic:  Install Fest or similar event in Miami. -- itnet7 2009-12-12 14:09:26 
20:59:08 <MootBot> New Topic:  Participation in the Ubuntu Community Hackfest -- mhall119 
20:59:40 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/12/15/ubuntu-community-hack-fest/
21:04:14 <MootBot> ACTION received:  use reya's drupal theme for our  community shows, since it was never used for FLS?
21:06:36 <MootBot> IDEA received:  use reya's drupal theme for our  community shows, since it was never used for FLS?
21:08:18 <MootBot> New Topic:  First Orlando Ubuntu Hour Recap-- chrisjohnston (covered by mhall119)
21:08:50 <MootBot> LINK received:  http://chrisjohnston.org/2009/ubuntu-hour-orlando-florida-recap
21:14:11 <MootBot> New Topic:  Open Mic!
21:14:52 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam
21:15:51 <MootBot> IDEA received:  The UserDaysTeam are expanding their schedule and open for more speakers if anyone wants to participate
21:24:30 <MootBot> LINK received:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserDaysTeam/#Course%20suggestions
21:28:32 <MootBot> Meeting finished at 20:28.
</pre>
