{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About the Show ===

This info comes directly from the site itself <nowiki>[[http://www.floridalinuxshow.com/]]</nowiki>
 
This year (2009) the Florida Linux Show is going to be held in two locations. The March 9th, 2009 show will be held in Jacksonville at the University of North Florida University Center.  The second show Octber 26th, 2009 will be held in Orlando (currently negotiating the between two locations, to be announced as soon as possible).

The Florida Linux Show is specifically for the 2nd largest number of Linux SIGs in the United States.  Since Florida has a large number of national ISPs, Fortune 1000 companies, and a large Internet and technology presence in the United States Linux community, it is only fitting that this state has its own Linux Conferences dedicated to serve this unique group of information technology professionals.  In addition to Linux user groups, the Open Source community in Florida is also well represented in the state and extremely active.

The Florida Linux Show allows Linux administrator, users, and the open source community, along with other commercial technology stakeholders to meet and exchange information about needed technology skills, current and future job or project opportunities, new and evolving technologies, trends and qualifying market directions, and the Internet infrastructure that affects all users and hardware and software administrators, to include, ISPs, state and local government entities, large, medium, and small businesses, and non-profit groups and associations.

The Florida Linux Show (Jacksonville & Orlando) is both an exhibition and a conference that serves the needs of the Florida Linux and Open Source Communities and associated integrated technology developers and users. 

A portion of the show also welcomes the Macintosh & Windows user communities to share ideas and information that help each part of the Florida Information Technology industry to meet and network (no pun intended) with each other.

=== Volunteers ===
This info comes directly from the site itself <nowiki>[[http://www.floridalinuxshow.com/index.php?pr=Call_for_Volunteers]]</nowiki>

Why Volunteer?

As a volunteer with the Florida Linux Show 2009 (Jacksonville or Orlando or both) you will receive the following for your volunteer contribution to the show:

*** Free entry into the Florida Linux Show 2009 (both Jacksonville and Orlando).
*** Free Lunch into the Florida Linux Show 2009 (both Jacksonville and Orlando).
*** Name posted on the volunteers pages of the Florida Linux Show 2008 web site.
*** Free entry into the door prize registry.

What is the Length of my Volunteer Commitment?

The minimum commitment is for a two-hour slot, but please let us know if you can sign up for more than one slot.

What Can I Volunteer for?

The following areas of the show are in need of volunteers:

*** Linux Installations
*** General Customer Relations (providing diections within the facility and taking customer referral information)
*** Handing out Tickets and Name Badges

How do I sign up?
http://www.floridalinuxshow.com/index.php?pr=Call_for_Volunteers

=== Ubuntu Booth ===

* We'll be manning a booth to present demos and hand out CDs

'''Team Contact''': <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/itnet7|itnet7]]</nowiki>

==== Show of Hands: Who's Going? ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''IRC Nick'''
| '''Driving From (Possible Carpools)'''
| '''Can you Drive (if so How many?'''
| '''When will you arrive in Jacksonville?'''
| '''Will you attend the LoCo F2F?'''
| '''Willing to be a booth babe?'''
| '''Willing to help new user installs?'''
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/itnet7|Chris Crisafulli]]</nowiki>
| itnet7
| Melbourne area
| Please contact me if you might need a ride from Brevard County
| Sunday
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| DanTrevino
| dantalizing
| Gainesville
| 3
| Sunday
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Smita (Dan's wife)
| n/a
| Gainesville
| 0
| Sunday
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| JohnPugh
| zoopster
| Tampa
| 6
| Monday AM
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Douglass Clem
| crashsystems
| Lake City
| 3
| Undecided
| Yes
| um...yes
| 
|-
| Michael Hall
| mhall119
| Lakeland
| 0
| Monday
| Yes
| At Qimo's booth
| 
|-
| Nicholas Wilson
| wilsonnck
| Atlanta/Marietta
| 2
| Gainesville->Saturday Jacksonville->Monday
| Yes
| Yes
| 
|-
| Jimmy Harris
| <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki>
| Orlando
| 3
| Sunday PM
| {OK}
| :-?
| 
|-
| Charles Rister
| maddog_2009
| Melbourne
| 0
| Sunday
| Yes
| 
| 
|-
| David Baucum
| maxolasersquad
| Tallahassee
| 5
| Not sure yet.
| Probably
| Always
| Absolutely!
|-
| Jon Craig
| NTTP
| Saint Augustine
| 3
| 30 min away already!
| Most likely
| Possibly
| Yes
|-
| Umer Farooq
| remu
| Orange Park
| 3
| 10 minutes out of Jax as is, Around 9ish to UNF
| No
| Yes
| Yes
|}

==== Ubuntu Florida Table Inventory List ====
Each Exhibitor is furnished a standard 8x10 booth with one table, two chairs, and one wastebasket. Other furniture and booth furnishings may be obtained from the official exhibition contractor.

'''Please list any items that you will and/or might be providing.'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Quantity'''
| '''Item'''
| '''Contents'''
| '''Purpose'''
| '''Status'''
| '''Lead'''
|-
| 1
| Ubuntu Conference Pack
| Pens, Flyers, Hats...oh my
| Advocate Ubuntu through promotion.
| In progress
| DanTrevino
|-
| 1
| Table Banner
| Banner
| Table sign
| DanTrevino
| DanTrevino
|-
| 1
| Extension Cord
| Extension Cord
| Support additional power requirements
| DanTrevino is bringing it
| DanTrevino
|-
| 1
| TV
| TV
| Movie/presentation display
| DanTrevino is bringing it
| DanTrevino
|}

==== Presentations/Demos ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Hours'''
| '''Demo/Presentation'''
| '''Requirements'''
| '''Presenter'''
|-
| 8 - 9
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 9 - 10
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 9 - 10:25
| Revolution OS*
| Power, TV, DVD Player or Laptop
| DanTrevino
|-
| 10 - 11
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 11 - 12
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 11 - 12:25
| Revolution OS*
| Power, TV, DVD Player or Laptop
| DanTrevino
|-
| 12 - 1
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 1 - 2
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 1 - 2:25
| Revolution OS*
| Power, TV, DVD Player or Laptop
| DanTrevino
|-
| 2 - 3
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 3 - 4
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|-
| 3 - 4:25
| Revolution OS*
| Power, TV, DVD Player or Laptop
| DanTrevino
|-
| 4 - 5
| Ubuntu Desktop
| Power & Internet
| all
|}
* Revolution OS screening dependent on approval by owner/director

==== F2F Meeting ====
We'll be meeting at <nowiki>[[http://www.mellowmushroom.com/store/index.php?s=50| Mellow Mushroom]]</nowiki> at 7pm.  Please stop by and say hello.  Follow the link for a map to the restaurant.
