{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Summary ====
* Chris Crisafulli (<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>) has taken over leadership of the FloridaTeam.
* On January 10, the several members of the team attended a Linux meetup in Tampa that was run by <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jpugh]]</nowiki>
* After the meetup <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:thelupine]]</nowiki> gave a short tutorial on 5-A-Day in preparation for the GlobalBugJam
* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> is currently organizing a BugJam in Miami for the February GlobalBugJam.

==== Full Report ====
===== Projects =====

* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> is currently organizing a BugJam in Miami for February.
* <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:reya276]]</nowiki> have begun upgrading the FloridaTeam website to drupal.

===== Meetings =====

* The Florida Team held a <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> on January 6^th^ and discussed the following:
## Miami Face-to-Face meeting 2/21 to coincide with BarCampMiami and FOWA (google it) -- dantrevino 2009-01-06 19:51:20
## Florida Linux Show Jacksonville on 3/9 -- dantrevino 2009-01-06 19:51:20

* Next meeting is scheduled for January 20^th^ at 8 PM in the LoCo channel.
   
    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#agenda

===== Florida Team Membership =====

   172

===== Recently Approved Members =====

* Richard Flores (rcxjflores) 
* ANTRat (antrat) 
* emil (farfan) 
* Youri Volkov (omgomgomg) 
* freakinjonathan (icebreaker747)

===== Team Owner =====
  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>
