{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Start Meeting

<elementc> shall we begin?

<Mike_F> who all is here

<bordy_laptop> gotta wait for pak33m, this is his baby again and I told him he could run it

<elementc> kk

<Mike_F> Any thing new to talk about

<Mike_F> What's the "bar thing"

<Mike_F> BarCamp ?

<Mike_F> or what ever it was

<elementc> I thought It had something to do with beer

<elementc> boy was I wrong

<bordy_laptop> BarCamp is a sort of OSS un-conference

<bordy_laptop> started by Chris Messina a few years ago in response o'reilly's FooCamp, which is sorta invite-only

<bordy_laptop> barcamp.org will explain it better

<Mike_F> foo as it bar

<bordy_laptop> right

<bordy_laptop> supposed to be alot of fun, cause for example when you get there everyone signs up on this big piece of paper for timeslots to give 
presentations, lots of networking, free wifi, etc.

<elementc> swiit

<bordy_laptop> it is swiit. And it will be on a wiikend too

<Mike_F> Is it like the Freedom Day idea

<Mike_F> or something you can do anytime you want to

<bordy_laptop> Kinda? But the way its lookin this may end up in august to coincide with barcamp earth

<bordy_laptop> something you can do whenever

<bordy_laptop> http://www.barcamporlando.org is a blog gregg set up, and I think he hasa link to the wiki on there as well

<bordy_laptop> their logo was designed by one girl associated with the group, and I think its veranice.

<Mike_F> Okay a bunch of guys from San Francisco what to have an invitation only event ?

<Mike_F> That's Nice

<bordy_laptop> right, but how do you feel about the barcamp?

<Mike_F> That sounds okay, since everyone is welcome

<Mike_F> Although I don't understand the objective other than just hanging out

<bordy_laptop> networking, strengthening the OSS community in Florida, learning from each other, etc.

<bordy_laptop> like the guy organizing it runs the Orlando Rails Group, and is somehow associated with Rails for All

<Mike_F> That's all good

<bordy_laptop> yeah he invited me out to their last meeting, but I just plain dont know anything about it yet. lol

<elementc> shoot

<elementc> I'm short $15

<bordy_laptop> well here, give me a couple minutes to see if pak33m shows up

<bordy_laptop> then we can talk about the rest of it on the agenda

<Mike_F> Ruby is okay, but I think it's "15 minutes" is just about up

<bordy_laptop> from what I've used it seems pretty simple to write in at least

<elementc> anyone interested in loaning a tech-deprived student 15 bucks so he can upgrade from a pentium III coppermine to an AMD64?

<bordy_laptop> so it appears that only three of us came and are active for the meeting, even after the IRC, forum, and email reminders.

<bordy_laptop> grr.

<Mike_F> welcome to the OSS community

<bordy_laptop> last meeting was good though, I think.

<elementc> we hope you enjoy your stay

<Mike_F> It's the summer

<Mike_F> Working with established user groups is a good idea

<bordy_laptop> seasons have no meaning to us in florida, you know that. Unless you're still in school, COUGHelementCCOUGH

<elementc> hey

<bordy_laptop> ;)

<elementc> we've established I'm not he only one

<bordy_laptop> martin graduated

<elementc> the only active one? maybe

<elementc> ping em all

<Mike_F> What about the Gators

<bordy_laptop> poningru: wake up and grab the rest of the UF folks!

<Mike_F> They must be hiding

<elementc> Ax3 chadmiller elcasey macluvjay lando

<arhimmel> i am a student

<elementc> wow

<Mike_F> Just like the one under your car right now

<elementc> we've got a liveone

<arhimmel> lol

<bordy_laptop> ahrimmel you're alive! welcome to the room.

<arhimmel> thnks been busy

<bordy_laptop> Alright, well lets just go ahead and start without jimmy since he's nowhere online and I cant find his phone number. lol

<elementc> *doesn

<elementc> 't lol

<Mike_F> okay let's start

<elementc> ***** START MEETING *****

<elementc> (teehee)

<bordy_laptop> Alright, so any new thoughts on the sub teams?

<elementc> not in particular

<Mike_F> not really

<bordy_laptop> The pages are coming together, except mine really

<bordy_laptop> but did you have other ideas on any more?

<elementc> I had one

<elementc> lemme sort my thoughts.....

<bordy_laptop> dont hurt yourself ;)

<elementc> the new mobile ubuntu thingy. we need a few people to work on that

<bordy_laptop> how do you mean?

<elementc> I'd be willing to help, but I don't have the hardware.

<elementc> Bugshooting, activisim, support

<Mike_F> Crackberry-buntu

<elementc> it's a whole new beast I hear

<bordy_laptop> crackbuntu?

<bordy_laptop> elementc that seems like something outside the loco, but if you can find people to work with you, go ahead and organize it

<elementc> maybe canonical would give us some hardware to test ;)

<elementc> alright

<elementc> will do

<Mike_F> Don't Moblie devices include software

<elementc> we're aiming to repalce it

<bordy_laptop> Well I'm not gonna lie here, the agenda was writtin by pak33m and without him here, I am kinda lost. Only things I can talk about are the 
barcamp and the plans with alabama/georgia

<elementc> with ubuntu of course

<elementc> okeydoke

<elementc> do what you can

<Mike_F> I think that people that make them will must likely do that themselfs

<Mike_F> That Apple-Phone is a good example

<bordy_laptop> well there are replacements for other stuff out there, like rockbox for the ipod

<elementc> brb

<bordy_laptop> so maybe ubuntu-mobile will be like that

<Mike_F> I think we should stick with the regular computer stuff

<arhimmel> brb

<elementc> yeah, good idea

<elementc> (back

<Mike_F> Alabama/Geogria sounds like a SEC football game

<bordy_laptop> and a bad one, at that.

<elementc> why do I stink at gnomine?

<bordy_laptop> But with that, Crane, boredandblogging and myself were kickin around the idea of starting to find out the amount of work needed to organize a 
linuxfest SouthEast

<Mike_F> Where ?

<Mike_F> Hot-Lanta

<bordy_laptop> This year would be florida, since it was my stupid idea to begin with ;)

<bordy_laptop> right now we're just planning the planning, so to speak

<Mike_F> O-Town

<elementc> rent the OCCC

<bordy_laptop> trying to get in touch with ohiolinux.org cause they've put on a few themselves

<elementc> ?

<bordy_laptop> brb

<elementc> ever been in the orange count Convention Center?

<elementc> it's huge in there

<elementc> we'd be fine

<Mike_F> I think one of the hotels would be easier to get

<Mike_F> Something off of I-Drive

<elementc> and about a million cheaper

<Mike_F> Motel-6 ?

<Mike_F> Considering our budget

<Mike_F> which is zero

<elementc> I'd kick in a tenner

<Mike_F> We could get panera bread for that kind of money

<bordy_laptop> wait, what are you talking about for venues? if we were to pull off the linuxfest, or a team meetup

<elementc> hey..... good idea

<elementc> linuxfest

<Mike_F> We can use my space in Orlando for a meet-up

<bordy_laptop> well with linuxfest you tend to need corporate sponsorship

<bordy_laptop> go to http://www.ohiolinux.org

<bordy_laptop> theirs is comin up soon I believe

<bordy_laptop> if we were to pull this off, it would be like a year out.

<elementc> so I've heard

<elementc> EVERY meeting

<bordy_laptop> you whine like a mule!

<elementc> and I kick like one too ;)

<bordy_laptop> lol

<bordy_laptop> Anyway, just wanted to let you know that we were thinking about it in case either of you wanted to come to the irc meetup with the two of them 
later in the week

<Mike_F> A linuxfest is a good idea, given a year for the lead time

<elementc> ok

<elementc> I'll try to get there

<elementc> next up?

<Mike_F> When ?

<bordy_laptop> Thats honestly all I got, linuxfest and barcamp, cause the rest of the ideas were pak33ms

<bordy_laptop> mike_f not sure, but I'll let you know.

<elementc> should we set a date for a makeup meeting next sunday?

<Mike_F> I want to try to get some COC interest in GNU/LINUX

<bordy_laptop> Nah, we're having one in two weeks anyway, if he has anything important to pass he can throw it in an email

<bordy_laptop> Mike_F any ideas for that, and do you need any help?

<Mike_F> The Cocoa Beach Chamber has a lot of Cape/NASA companies

<Mike_F> Yeah, That first thing is translating Computer Jive into English

<elementc> trust me: NASA's sold on RHEL

<elementc> I've tried

<elementc> which is better than windows

<Mike_F> RHEL ?

<Mike_F> Read Hat ?

<elementc> Red Hat Enterprise Linux

<bordy_laptop> I actually asked congressman putnam why the gov't pays for stuff, and he emailed me back. lol.

<elementc> really? send that one to the list

<bordy_laptop> will do

<bordy_laptop> I am relatively sure he doesn't answer his own email, but somebody sat down and wrote me a good one, so its nice either way

<Mike_F> Red Hat is most likely that the Number One Distro for big business

<elementc> I'll write to the school board

<elementc> actually, Ubuntu's getting up there

<bordy_laptop> Mike_F and its just as hard a beast to buck as windows, IMO. Its pretty widely used

<elementc> they'v got a huge license

<Mike_F> Rad Hat is still Linux

<bordy_laptop> oh its true

<bordy_laptop> and I'm glad its widely used

<bordy_laptop> but I prefer me some ubuntu. lol

<arhimmel> at my school we r using Sun OS

<elementc> ah

<elementc> lucky

<bordy_laptop> orly?

<Mike_F> Open Solaris ?

<elementc> school board of Brevard uses XP or Vista only

<arhimmel> not sure havent really look in to it much but i have to use it to do cs assignments

<elementc> I had to uninstall win 2k on about 50 pc's last week

<elementc> that was not so bad

<elementc> a dos floppy and fdisk

<elementc> :)

<bordy_laptop> youch. APD just issued their employees new laptops, so my wife got hers. She was disappointed they got XP, but I think they made out. I 
dislike vista more each time I use it

<Mike_F> Glad to see our tax dollars going to Bill Gates

<arhimmel> my main computer uses vista

<arhimmel> and my laptop has ubuntu

<elementc> poor you

<arhimmel> use it for games

<bordy_laptop> well thats why I asked congressman putnam.... there are a *ton* of gov't comps out there, why do they pay so much?

<elementc> cedega, mate

<Mike_F> There are going to be less of those in Florida, it's good timing for Linux

<bordy_laptop> cedega is nice, now that I got it again.

<elementc> oh yeah

<bordy_laptop> mike_F I wonder how it would work on a state-level campaign?

<elementc> RCT 2 runs so great

<elementc> isn't that kinda our goal?

<bordy_laptop> if I had a worthwhile video card COH would run fine too. and WoW

<bordy_laptop> elementc I mean asking state-level legislators

<elementc> ah

<elementc> I'm infiltrating the school board

<elementc> gimme a few months

<bordy_laptop> like a ninja

<elementc> oh yeah

<elementc> they're actually miroring the xubuntu installer without knowing it

<arhimmel> i doubt i can do much up at my university, most cs people do have linux on their own computers

<Mike_F> That's is a good question, obviously the state of Florida knows about Open Source Software

<bordy_laptop> pak33m is taking some classes (cant remember which) but they are completely windows-focused right now evidently... and he said noneof the guys 
in his class know anything about linux. Sad geeks.

<Mike_F> The question is why don't they use it ?

<bordy_laptop> Mike_F yeah, but theres gotta be something. We could convince charlie to do something drastic

<arhimmel> deals they have inplace

<elementc> you're not a geek if you don't at least know a few linux commands

<arhimmel> politics

<elementc> We should find his email

<elementc> lemme google it

<bordy_laptop> elementc you'd be proud of me, when I stopped by my office to steal/borrow a vaccuum tonight I tested out my vnc and ssh connections

<bordy_laptop> w0000t

<elementc> yay

<Mike_F> Charlie is the one to sell

<bordy_laptop> dude I am so proud of myself

<bordy_laptop> lol

<Mike_F> I am not sure but I think some states are moving to Open Source Software

<bordy_laptop> I know some whole countries are. France and Germany for some, I believe.

<Mike_F> I would guess MASS may be one of them

<arhimmel> venezuela is

<Mike_F> Oregon is also a good state to look at

<elementc> http://www.flgov.com/contact_form

<elementc> there' your contact form

<elementc> it's also got numbers and snail mail

<bordy_laptop> i dunno, I pretty much hate everything oregonian. lol

<elementc> everyone write a short letter as homework

<elementc> (3000 characters max)

<elementc> it's washington you gotta worry about. especially redmond

<elementc> *gasp*

<bordy_laptop> wow, we have 57 members.

<elementc> nintendo is in the same town as Microsoft

<elementc> that's terible

<Mike_F> Oregon is the home of the Linux Foundation

<bordy_laptop> i know mike_f, and thats definitely a good point for them... its their general politics I dislike, but I won't go into that here.

<elementc> poor nintendo

<bordy_laptop> I need to hook my wii back up and finish paper mario

<elementc> OH NO! Ym zelda package is going within ~100 miles of Microsoft

<bordy_laptop> elementC you have a wii?

<elementc> of course

<elementc> I ghad to return my zelda twilight princess disk

<bordy_laptop> sweet. when are they instituting online multiplayer?

<bordy_laptop> I havent played that yet

<bordy_laptop> wife's cousin is supposedly sending me his

<Mike_F> What's wrong with Oregon's politic's ? I just thought just the weather sucked

<elementc> sis scratched it just before Zan't death

<elementc> online multiplayer debuted with Polemon battle revvoloution this week

<bordy_laptop> oooh

<elementc> strikers is out sometime this month

<elementc> and Prime three august 20th

<elementc> meeting over?

<bordy_laptop> i think I have to get strikers

<bordy_laptop> yeah, was over a while ago

<bordy_laptop> w/o pak33m i had nothin

<bordy_laptop> oops gg anyway, good show's comin on

<Mike_F> Next meeting is two weeks

<elementc> ***** END MEETING *****
