{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

If you have an idea that you want to get people interested in, or if you have something you need help with like.... Well, I don't know, I guess things like Team Mailing List Moderation or similar team maintenance style jobs can be placed here.

=== Team Scribe ===

The team needs one or two people that would like to volunteer to help with the Meeting Minutes and Agendas, and tabulating Team Reports. This is a very good position for someone to begin contributing and will be very much appreciated. The info that this contributor provides can help secure re-approval with ease, by fulfilling this role. Please Contact <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7|itnet7]]</nowiki> at ubuntu dot com! Thanks in advance. 

=== Team Mailing List Moderator ===

The team needs one or two people that would like to volunteer to take ownership of and moderate the Ubuntu Mailing List. Please Contact <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7|itnet7]]</nowiki> at ubuntu dot com! Thanks in advance. 

=== Wiki Redux Team ===

After UDS time frame, a team can begin taking a look at reworking the entire wiki if necessary. Check back here soon for details -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> 