{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Bug Club Installfest ===

Installfest for Brevard Users Group http://bugclub.org/. Fee Ave. Public Library is locate <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps?hl=en&um=1&ie=UTF-8&q=fee+ave.+Public+library&near=Melbourne,+FL&fb=1&cid=0,0,13484161372190057105&sa=X&oi=local_result&resnum=1&ct=image|here]]</nowiki> 

Please come out and provide support as an outreach for the Brevard Users Group. This installfest will take place on Saturday November 22, 2008 from 10 am - 4 pm. I will send out a similar e-mail as the one earlier this year:

=== Letter Sent To Bug Club Mailing List ===

Dear Bug Club,

I wanted to take a moment to personally let you know about the Install
Party on the April 26, 2008 at Fee Ave. Library. 
The installfest is schedule to begin at 10:00 am and will end @ 4:00 pm.
I'm going to be there and will try and see if I can get a couple of
helpers that I know are very new Linux user friendly.

An installfest by my definition is an informal gathering of computer
users usually with one or more experienced Linux users, who are there to
help out users wishing to install Linux. This can be in a default Linux
only install or an even more advanced configuration like dual booting.
It is also a time where users who are struggling with hardware issues
can bring their devices and will receive help in troubleshooting the
device issues (time permitting, and resource permitting), I have asked
some others to come and give a hand, but If I am the only one that shows
up, it will be hard for me to help everyone at the same time :-).

Some suggestions on what to bring:

Installfest Tips

* 1. The computer you intend to use - with power cord
* 2. Keyboard – Be sure to bring the right kind. Most keyboard and PC’s use PS2 plugs but some of the older ones use the large plug and it is possible that you have one that requires a USB keyboard.
* 3. Mouse - again there are several kids of mice, PS2 (small) plugs, serial port mice and USB port mice. Bring the right kind.
* 4. Monitor –There are two things to consider here. A) Be sure to bring a power cord for it and the cord that plugs into your PC (some are detachable.) and B) if the problem you intend to tackle is video related, but sure to bring the monitor you usually use.
* 5. We are going to primarily be using Ubuntu for this installfest.
* 6. Ethernet connection – You should bring an Ethernet cable with you in case we are able to establish network connectivity. Bring any Wireless cards you may want to try and get working as well. 
* 7. Speakers if you need or want sound.
* 8. The new piece you want help installing (like a read/write CD-ROM) or a new graphics card. This might also be software. Bring the URL or the CD.
* 9. Tools you might need to take your PC apart if you plan on upgrading hardware.
* 10. A Linux reference book or two if you want to share with others in order to help troubleshoot.
* 11. Diskettes or blank writable CD's if you need something that someone might have.
* 12. A fold up rolling cart helps a lot. You will have a PC, a monitor, a box or bag of “stuff” and you need to get from your car, into a building.

* borrowed mostly from leap-cfl.org group on sense in re-inventing the wheel~!

Last but not least, bring your curiosity. There is always something new
and interesting to see and discuss. See you there! 

For those seeking more information I found a pretty cool link on
Wikipedia for installfest. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Installfest.

Thanks for taking a moment to read this and I look forward to seeing you
there!

=== A Note for our Florida Team ===

Same as earlier, I am not sure who is planning to show up from their group, but I am going to try and help to support them. 

-chris_c
