{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by mhall119 at 01:09 ==
 <''''''> mhall119's parents just stopped by... he'll be back in just a second.

 <''''''> okay, everyone ready?

 <''''''> not much to cover tonight

 <''''''> ready here

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Global Jam

=== Global Jam ===
 <''''''> ready

 <''''''> April 1-3 is the next Ubuntu Global Jam

 <''''''> Global Jam is just a weekend where community around the world get together with people around them to contribute to Ubuntu

 <''''''> you can write code, triage bugs, write documentation, or just test the current state of Ubuntu 11.04

 <''''''> anybody can host an event, and it only takes 2 people to get together to make it a jam

 <''''''> for example, cjohnston and I are meeting up here in Lakeland to hack on Summit code

 <''''''> so find someone near you, pick a place to meetup (coffee shops are good), and decide on something to do

 <''''''> if you're going to have an event, add it to http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/567/detail/

 <''''''> anybody who is a member of the Florida team can add an event for our team

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Summit Jam

=== Summit Jam ===
 <''''''> Whats the difference between the Summit Jam and Global Jam?

 <''''''> as I mentioned, cjohnston and I are going to be hacking on Summit

 <''''''> Summit Jam is just what we're doing as part of Global Jam

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/729/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/729/detail/

 <''''''> oh ok

 <''''''> summit is the code that runs summit.ubuntu.com, which provides the session management and calendar listings for UDS

 <''''''> we're going to be meeting in person, but we'll also be working with others on IRC, so if anybody wants to participate with us and learn some python, django, and how to work on summit, feel free to register

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Natty Release Parties

=== Natty Release Parties ===
 <''''''> most of you know about release parties already

 <''''''> April 28th is the scheduled release date for Natty

 <''''''> so start thinking of where you can celebrate

 <''''''> Oh man =/

 <''''''> unlike global jams, release parties don't involve work!

 <''''''> you don't need internet access (though we are geeks)

 <''''''> just somewhere to hang out with friends and have a good time

 <''''''> just like global jam, you can register your release party events here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/744/detail/

 <''''''> let's make sure we've have Florida marked on those maps!

 <''''''> that's all I've got for this meeting, anybody have any questions?

 <''''''> Nope.

 <''''''> if you want to ask about how to run a global jam, feel free to ask us in here or in #ubuntu-locoteams

 <''''''> alrighty, we're done

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 01:28 ==
=== People Present ===
* MichelleQ

* mhall119

* rmcbride

* Chloric

* mianosm

=== Actions Recorded ===
 None
