{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Network Security

The processes and tools that protect computer systems are many, but first and foremost are proactive planning, proper implementation, secure coding, testing, and treating the Internet as it should be treated a hostile environment that must be mitigated as much as possible while still allowing you to get work done. But ultimately, you're going to have security holes in your system. Often you're going to have someone exploiting them.

Security problems are systemic. In almost all real-world conditions, your systems will interact with other. You must be mindful of these interactions. To make a system totally secure is a noble goal, but no general security magic will make you completely secure. Your first question should be, "What is secure enough?"

Some 30 years ago, when the Internet was first taking a shape, the electronic world was a very different place than it is today. Most networks were trusted and network administrators knew everybody who could access their networks. Most users didn't access the network directly, either; they used large central machines, which in turn spoke with other large machines.

Today, millions of unaccountable computers are connected to the same Internet your servers are connected to, and you can't be too careful. Understanding security implications on place your systems online. Not only is your own data at risk, but a compromised server regardless of whose server it is can serve as a springboard for attacks on other computers. It's a harsh reality, but administrators need to worry not only about flaws in their own security policies but also about flaws can monitor your traffic, you'd better be using encryption. Never trust the network. 
