{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by itnet7 at 01:00 ==
 <''''''> ping Catsceo cjohnston dantalizing mhall119 pak33m reya276 RoAkSoAx zoopster 

 <''''''> hey

 <''''''> Hey there reya276 !

 <''''''> trying to stay awake, they got me working like a slave

 <''''''> I am going to ask Alanbell for an enhancement request to mootbot to Anounce the start of athe meeting

 <''''''> mhall119 is putting kids to bed

 <''''''> Ah! No worries reya276 

 <''''''> I just thought we would discuss chloric's topic

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Discussion for an Ubuntu Promotional Hour

=== Discussion for an Ubuntu Promotional Hour ===
 <''''''> quick show of hands to see whether or not we have a couple of people that can weigh in thoughts on this

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> If not we can hold off until next meeting....

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> Sorry what is the Ubuntu Promotion Hour?

* '''''' is here

 <''''''> Hey there mhall119 !

 <''''''> X-Man: it's similar to a standard Ubuntu hour

 <''''''> but

 <''''''> their idea was to reserve a venue

 <''''''> setup a pc, where passersby can try out Ubuntu

 <''''''> That sounds cool

 <''''''> Browse the Web a bit, play some of the games

 <''''''> Use the wordprocessor, gimp, etc

 <''''''> showcase some Ubuntu goodness

 <''''''> the thing I wanted to ask everyone about, is that chloric and govatent talked with flux which is similar to a LUG downsouth

 <''''''> that'd be cool

 <''''''> we could probably rummage up some equipment for the team to use

 <''''''> and wanted to do stuff together with flux, but the leader of flux said they wouldn't participate in an "Ubuntu" only event

 <''''''> Chloric was saying that he and govatent wanted to in that case showcase meego, and other Open source stuff like chromeos

 <''''''> I don't think that's a big deal if flux were to head it up, and govatent and chloric wanted to support it

 <''''''> but it shouldn't be advertised in my opinion as a "Ubuntu Florida Team" Event

 <''''''> any thoughts?

 <''''''> seems reasonable to me

 <''''''> me too

 <''''''> we can just support the effort, without making it a team sanctioned event

 <''''''> Well, I don't want to discourage any help that we can give to others, but I do think it would be awkward to open an Ubuntu Hour to Maemo, etc. just to get some flux members to attend

 <''''''> or is it trivial?

 <''''''> I don't know that it's a big deal one way or another

 <''''''> I just said that I would ask them if it would be allright to send an invite to their mailing list

 <''''''> The event and should have something demoing  Ubuntu

 <''''''> and let them know if they need support at installfests or other events, that we would be glad to help

 <''''''> seems reasonable

 <''''''> Well, I just really wanted a gauge to see if I was the only one that felt that if the team is doing an event, that we should advocate Ubuntu is all

 <''''''> Does anyone else have anything they would like to discuss, or any ideas to discuss?

 <''''''> nope, not at the moment. 

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Open Meeting

=== Open Meeting ===
 <''''''> where is the next UDS going to be held at

 <''''''> Budapest

* '''''' can't spell, tho

 <''''''> X-Man: Hungary

 <''''''> OH, I do want to thank everyone who helped pull off the welcome party!

 <''''''> What about the one in the Fall

 <''''''> Then hopefully the next one will return to Florida

 <''''''> really?

 <''''''> Thanks to you too MichelleQ you guys did a lot of work to help get that off the ground!!

 <''''''> itnet7: couldn't have done it without the team's help!

 <''''''> Thanks MIchelleQ

 <''''''> Definitely

 <''''''> dantalizing, you, zoopster, everyone who was involved.  It was a spectacular success

 <''''''> That's exactly what I told Mark S.

 <''''''> I had the utmost of compliments from Marianna.  She stopped me, and told me that in her years of doing UDS, she'd never seen anything like it before done by a team.

 <''''''> That Rocks!!

 <''''''> I was touched.

 <''''''> That does Rock

 <''''''> X-Man: it's definitely not confirmed, but it was absolutely discussed

 <''''''> having it in Florida again

 <''''''> I will be there this time

 <''''''> Marianna said that we need wait to get the feedback

 <''''''> but I think everyone loved the location!

 <''''''> I sure hope it happens - I *loved* being able to be around so many friends

 <''''''> Definitely

 <''''''> we had a great night with the women's team being here, and then having houseguests for several days afterward

 <''''''> I bet that all of you had a ball!!

 <''''''> It was a blast... and really, really, solidified the idea of family between several of us

 <''''''> If nothing else, UDS made me realize that I do have a place in this community thing, and that I have something important to contribute.  It was amazing.

 <''''''> Oh, One thing... Let's make a concerted effort to try and utilize ubuntu-fl.org. If you're trying to use it and you see a problem let me know

 <''''''> definitely

 <''''''> MichelleQ2: Absolutely

 <''''''> There have been some discrepancies with rights, and openid, but I think were through the thick of it

 <''''''> Florida Team's planet should be working flawlessly as well

 <''''''> awesome

 <''''''> thanks to dantalizing !

 <''''''> I got my blog up on Planet, finally.

 <''''''> MichelleQ2: Sweet!!

 <''''''> I'll have to get it up on ours as well.

 <''''''> As soon as I learn how to add them, I will ping you sometime and hook you up

* '''''' shamelessly plugs www.opensourceroad.blogspot.com

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> nice!!

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> hey there cjohnston !

* '''''' waves

 <''''''> howfy

 <''''''> howdy

 <''''''> I like howfy

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> gonna end the meeting... unless anyone has anything they'd like to add

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> ok then..

 <''''''> nope!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 01:30 ==
=== People Present ===
* itnet7

* reya276

* MichelleQ2

* X-Man

* mhall119

* cjohnston

=== Actions Recorded ===
 None
