{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<itnet7> so tonight the meeting is going to be a little different
<roadmap> i suck at pool tired
<roadmap> Oh hi meeting time
<mhall119> roadmap: and respond slower, sheesh
<itnet7> mhall119: is going to kind of run this]
<itnet7> I am here for input
<roadmap> mhall119, In the process of falling asleep in my chair over here.
<itnet7> kind of a lot going on here at the moment
<mhall119> okay, show of hands?
<itnet7> :-P
<itnet7> o/
* roadmap is armless
* crashsystems does not know ascii art for hands
<itnet7> lol crashsystems
<mhall119> crashsystems: o/
<mhall119> okay, well that makes 3 of us
<Michelle_Qimo> \o
<mhall119> anyone else?
<FFEMTcJ> yo
<itnet7> 5
<itnet7> :-P
<mhall119> dantalizing: pak33m chaynie
<itnet7> ChunkxZor: was here earlier
<mhall119> zoopster
<mhall119> jamalta: I know is driving
<roadmap> Random question before the meeting starts
<mhall119> telepathy?
<roadmap> Anyone know of a good twitter library that works on the lunix?
<mhall119> roadmap: yes
<roadmap> The Perl CPAN module fails
<ChunkxZor> oh yeah
<roadmap> So I'm willing to try *gasp* python
<ChunkxZor> i need to reboot if im gonna stay in fior the meeting
<mhall119> roadmap: that's your question quota until after the meeting
<itnet7> roadmap: you should seriously check out Quickly
<roadmap> mhall119, Will it let you set the client name, version, and URL?
<itnet7> if you do
<mhall119> roadmap: nope, gotta wait now
<roadmap> For example I want it to say like "from <Custom Client Name>" and link to a custom URL
<telepathy> Lol happened again
<mhall119> telepathy: I was actually talking to you that time
<roadmap> mhall119, Hey, its all related! I'm done asking if it does what I ask.
<roadmap> Hi telepathy !
<mhall119> alrighty then, kicking this meeting off
<itnet7> suh-weet
<mhall119> Use Blueprints in our Launchpad team to plan and track LoCo projects and initiatives
* Michelle_Qimo waves at telepathy
<crashsystems> sounds good
<roadmap> Wait so you mean I actually need to use my launchpad account for something?
<itnet7> anyone have the link about the negative blog
<itnet7> ?
<mhall119> there was a discussion at UDS yesterday about using the blueprint functionality in Launchpad to plan and track LoCo initiatives
<crashsystems> itnet7: http://www.sourcecode.de/content/re-ubuntu-target-practice
<roadmap> I just though it was cool to have one. Like a facebook. You don't really have to do anything with it but sign up.
<mhall119> I think it's a good idea, launchpad would let us to things like "subscribe" to initiatives we want to be updated about
<mhall119> it will also let us close them when we accomplish them, and track how we're doing
<mhall119> we currently have an LP project for the ubuntu-fl.org website
<roadmap> So you essentially want something like developer milestones except they actually are met on time?
<mhall119> we can either use that or make a new project for loco initiatives
<itnet7> That is sooooo funny
<roadmap> =( its true.
<mhall119> roadmap: yeah, also being able to break large projects into smaller chunks, and assign them around
<roadmap> A devleopers favorite sound is the sound of a milestone whizzing by.
<crashsystems> we already have https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida, why not just make blueprints there?
<mhall119> roadmap: that's deadlines.
<roadmap> mhall119, fine "incomplete milestone deadline"
<itnet7> sorry roadmap talking about the link comparing 50 rounds of shooting in a gun range to murdering children, etc, etc
<mhall119> crashsystems: that's a group, I don't think you can attach blueprints to a group
<roadmap> I'm tired and those are big words
* itnet7 gets back on task
<itnet7> sorry
<crashsystems> https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida
<roadmap> So yeah sounds good.
<Michelle_Qimo> should I be paying attention?
<mhall119> crashsystems: yeah, I don't see an Add button there
<crashsystems> who is the group owner?
<roadmap> Don't expect me to actually offer much since I still haven't bothered to learn anything about launchpad. Srsly.
<mhall119> itnet7: what do you think of this idea?
<crashsystems> itnet7 (who I assume is group owner): can the group itself have blueprints?
<mhall119> crashsystems: it's itnet7
<itnet7> mhall119: hold on let me catch up
<roadmap> As for group initiatives, what exactly is the Florida LoCo planning to do?
<crashsystems> thats the next topic roadmap
<chunkxzor> did i miss the beginning of the meeting?
<mhall119> roadmap: whenever we have a booth at an event like FLS
<roadmap> Are these going to be more like code contributions (or new software) to the Ubuntu project? Or could this be anything from meetings/parties/etc?
<mhall119> or have another build day
<roadmap> That clarifies that
<mhall119> or some of the advocacy projects we've talked about
<mhall119> roadmap: probably not code contributions
<itnet7> Yes I do think it's a good idea
<roadmap> mhall119, but I thought the ubuntu developers loved all patches submitted in perl
<mhall119> itnet7: can we put blueprints on a group, or do we need a project?
<roadmap> Maybe that explains why nobody takes me srsly when I try and fix something
<itnet7> I am pretty sure that we can do the blueprints based on a group
<itnet7> but I can check tomorrow to be certain as I didn't attend that session
<mhall119> maybe it just needs to be enabled some how, I didn't see an option to do that for my Qimo groups
<itnet7> let me check something out brb
<roadmap> chunkxzor, (off topic question) did our buddy Maistor ever get back to you about the guy that was supposed to call him?
<chunkxzor> No
<roadmap> I'll ask the guy if he called later
<itnet7> mhall119: I think that we can propose a project and list the Floco as a driver
* roadmap gets back on topic
<itnet7> but I would have to check into it to be sure
<mhall119> itnet7: okay
<mhall119> I'm assuming that since it was discussed at UDS, it would be okay
<itnet7> I do think it is okay
<itnet7> I will also check on that
<itnet7> do you remember how lead that talk?
<itnet7> not who
<itnet7> oops
<itnet7> not how, who!
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<itnet7> I am sorry can't type that well tonight
<mhall119> itnet7: no, sorry, 24 hours is too long for my memory
<itnet7> lol
<mhall119> pak33m was in there, maybe he can tell you
<roadmap> mhall119, you went to UDS as well?
<itnet7> I can find out by looking at the track and will and I will ask for a recap
<mhall119> any questions before we move on to the next item?
<itnet7> roadmap: he is attending remotely
<roadmap> Ah
<mhall119> roadmap: I don't think so, we're participating remotely
<itnet7> and has been very active
<itnet7> so has FFEMTcJ
<FFEMTcJ> ;-)
<roadmap> Yeah I just like Linux. Activity solely depends on the food content of the party. I mean what?
<crashsystems> UDS should have cardboard cut-outs of the people in the IRC channels.
<FFEMTcJ> you would roadmap
<itnet7> I have been trying to post links when I can, as I have tried to webcast some of the none recorded sessions (video)
<mhall119> crashsystems: what makes you think they don't?
<Michelle_Qimo> I'll try to pay more attention tomorrow
<itnet7> crashsystems: that would Rock!
<roadmap> crashsystems, holograms would be cheaper (holographs? whatever, I'm tired). And it would save trees.
<crashsystems> I did not see cut-outs in the video stream itnet7 did
<mhall119> crashsystems: they're all behind the camera
<mhall119> okay, moving right along...
<crashsystems> ah, ok
<FFEMTcJ> its hard knowing who is who isnt it mhall119
<mhall119> Find a new project to support now that FLS is over
<FFEMTcJ> cant see anyone and they dont say anything in irc
<mhall119> if you go to ubuntu-fl.org you will see 2 supported projects
<roadmap> mhall119, I say we support the "BRF" project.
<FFEMTcJ> brf?
<roadmap> mhall119, BRF is the "buy roadmap food" project. It starts with a simple donation of food to my house once a week every week for ten years.
<chunkxzor> roadmap dont say bacon
<chunkxzor> :(
<FFEMTcJ> coming from you im not sure i wanna ask
<Michelle_Qimo> probably don't want to know
<mhall119> roadmap: we need something we all want to be involved in
<roadmap> mhall119, I want to be involved in the getting of me food
<chunkxzor> lulz, he can share with us?
<mhall119> so anyway, we have FLS 2009 and Qimo as supported projects
<mhall119> and while I appreciate all the support the LoCo has given us, I don't want to be the only thing we support
<Michelle_Qimo> we need to put FLS 2010 up - or whatever incarnation FLS is going to have
<FFEMTcJ> agreed
<mhall119> in the past ALF was up there too
<Michelle_Qimo> can we get the march womens event up?
<mhall119> I was thinking a long-term thing, instead of just an upcoming event
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: you should have attended the last session with SABDFL
<crashsystems> I like the idea of some fun programming project. The thing is, is there any such project that enough people would be interested in?
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, well then
<itnet7> he was answering questions as soon as he read them in irc
<mhall119> there are several technical and non-technical projects out there that we could all be involved with
<itnet7> mhall119: Yeah
<itnet7> I agree
<roadmap> crashsystems, I think we're all too language diverse here to first pick a suitable language, then agree upon what functionality the project should have
<FFEMTcJ> miss some good stuff? i went to one that i was really interested in..which was good, but maybe i missed the better one
<itnet7> roadmap: python should be the default language
<crashsystems> actually roadmap, I think that the majority language is probably python :D
<mhall119> crashsystems: that's the thing, we need something that the entire loco can meaningfully contribute to
<roadmap> crashsystems, not to mention if we are going to do it right, get a project manager on the task of organizing and planning the entire project, class diagrams, etc, etc, pain
<Michelle_Qimo> ROFL
<roadmap> crashsystems, what? I thought everyone here loved perl. I could have sworn I remember everyone telling me how much they enjoyed it.
<Michelle_Qimo> if it involves inflicting pain on roadmap, count me in
<Michelle_Qimo> I will gladly project manage
<crashsystems> I'd imagine that in typical Open Source style, it would more likely work if we found a dead but functioning project we are interested in, and take it over.
<mhall119> there are several very worthy community projects out there, like ubuntu-women, ubuntu-learning and ubuntu-ngo
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: i think we need a list of projects we could decide to participate in and have a vote on what we want to do
<itnet7> as a team a while back we voted that for projects that we wanted to try and get new contributors and non-devs involved in that Python would yield the most benefit
<roadmap> Well it also dependson the scope of the project
<FFEMTcJ> if there are that many
<roadmap> We could start with tiny patch submissions to projects like Firefox (or something) and eventually move from there
<Michelle_Qimo> Erm, can I *request* something?
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: ?
<FFEMTcJ> depends
<mhall119> I think first we should decide if we want to do a code project or a community project
<FFEMTcJ> michelle
<Michelle_Qimo> I need an inventory program.
<mhall119> or, if possible, support another loco
<FFEMTcJ> why not do one of each
* FFEMTcJ kicks Michelle_Qimo
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: that would be an easy project using quickly
<FFEMTcJ> ;-)
<roadmap> mhall119, Thats always a good idea. There are quite a few dead or very small LoCos that could use a membership boost
<mhall119> we can do one of each if we can get enough participation
<Michelle_Qimo> why am I being kicked?
<pak33m> hey all im here but at work still
<mhall119> I don't want to spread too thin
<crashsystems> what sort of inventory program?
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: speaking of which. i want to look at those later
<Michelle_Qimo> inventory tracking
<Michelle_Qimo> namely for all the mung out in the shop
<itnet7> and Unless your talking about one that will do the inventorying automagically without any manual labor
<roadmap> A really nice Lunix game of d00m may be fun
<crashsystems> so you are talking about general purpose stuff in the inventory?
<roadmap> Simply because everyone says Linux can't do games
<Michelle_Qimo> erm, no, I'm happy to manually labor. I just don't want to have to track it all in an excel spreadsheet
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: i think we would be able to include more people if we did both.. someone who doesnt want to do one could do the other
<Michelle_Qimo> cause that's sucky
<roadmap> I know a few graphic artists and game designers. They aren't famiiar with OpenGL or anything but if we can find a sexy Open Source Game Engine that will run on the Lunixness we can totally do something with that
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: if we have enough people who want to be a part of one or the other, then sure
* dhillon-v10 says hi to everyone
<FFEMTcJ> hi dhillon-v10
<dhillon-v10> FFEMTcJ, hi :)
<mhall119> roadmap: too complex, the barrier to contribution would be high
<Michelle_Qimo> hi dhillon-v10
<dhillon-v10> Michelle_Qimo, hi
<crashsystems> Michelle_Qimo: do you think you could brainstorm a list of features and mail it to the list?
<dhillon-v10> Michelle_Qimo, or better yet cookies
<roadmap> mhall119, believe it or not I find game design to be quite easy as long as you take out the graphical element. Physics, collisions, movement, even enemy AI (which I'm a bit underqualified to handle but can do simplistic algorithims)
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: sure thing.
<mhall119> roadmap: that's because you're brilliant
<Michelle_Qimo> Could probably one-up that request - we've got some mockups
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: i still think we need a few choices to list out of each(all) tpes...to decide what we want to do
<roadmap> mhall119, wat you guyz tell me i'm slow
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: I agree
<dhillon-v10> roadmap, hi :)
<mhall119> roadmap: we only do that to make yourselves feel better
<roadmap> dhillon-v10, hey, welcome to the meeting.
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: maybe try to compile a list for the next meeting and have a vote then?
<roadmap> mhall119, you mean you lie to me and tell me I'm smart? Well thats just awesome!
<roadmap> mhall119, can you start saying that out loud in public too? At least in front of large groups of women. Please?
<mhall119> roadmap: we lie and tell you you're slow
<roadmap> We're off topic
<roadmap> Im guilty again =(
<FFEMTcJ> roadmap: you are
<dhillon-v10> roadmap, lol women :)
<mhall119> okay, so I'll put together a list of community projects, if anyone knows of some good code projects we can contribute to send me a note
<Michelle_Qimo> next topic?
<FFEMTcJ> someone is logging right?
<mhall119> that's all the topics
<roadmap> mhall119, how about a twitter API!
<crashsystems> the channel is always logged FFEMTcJ
<Michelle_Qimo> ok then
<mhall119> roadmap: use whatever gwibber uses
<crashsystems> roadmap: I wrote python bindings for the twitpic.com api
<mhall119> okay, open mic time
<Michelle_Qimo> karaoke?
* FFEMTcJ is scared
* Michelle_Qimo clears throat
<crashsystems> go ahead Michelle_Qimo
<Michelle_Qimo> hhm
* Michelle_Qimo is thinking of songs
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: there is pykaraoke and
<X-Man> Can we add to the list, Bug Triage? Or have a goal of triaging a certain number of Ubuntu Bugs or another project?
<X-Man> for the Loco
<FFEMTcJ> Is there an easy way of tracking that?
<mhall119> X-Man: that would be a good thing for a blueprint
<mhall119> set a goal of x many triages
<X-Man> yeah
<dhillon-v10> mhall119, how about 5 a day :)
<FFEMTcJ> I am currently in the bugsquad mentorship program.. maybe try to get more people to complete?
<mhall119> there used to be a desktop 5 a day tracker
<Michelle_Qimo> in honor of UDS - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQMbXvn2RNI
<FFEMTcJ> there is still the 5 a day group
<mhall119> FFEMTcJ: what's the level of involvement for that?
<crashsystems> this guy is just creepy: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l2cR30Q7WVk&feature=player_embedded
<dhillon-v10> FFEMTcJ, I want to apply but I am not good at solving bugs can you help me out there
<itnet7> There are a lot of things that are being discussed here that could use developer love
<FFEMTcJ> mhall119: its a two month program..
<itnet7> to get things ready for Lucid
<FFEMTcJ> dhillon-v10: its not solving.. its mostly confirming and such
<mhall119> itnet7: let me know if there is one that you think would be good for us
<FFEMTcJ> I went to the meeting on the mentorship program today, and had some input on the decisions that were made for the direction of the program..
<itnet7> another karaoke http://www.ultrastar.pl/
<FFEMTcJ> I say maybe try to get 10 people to complete the program in 6 months? its a two month program..
<dhillon-v10> FFEMTcJ, how does the program work out
<itnet7> I will try and come up with a few ideas
<FFEMTcJ> dhillon-v10: you sign up, get a mentor, work with your mentor for two months..
<dhillon-v10> FFEMTcJ, ahh, I have a mentor but he's helping me out with MOTU stuff
<itnet7> did you know that with Quickly you can use quickly to push up to your own ppa with just a simple one line command
<FFEMTcJ> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BugSquad/GettingInvolved
<FFEMTcJ> cool
<crashsystems> It will be great once quicly has translation support
<FFEMTcJ> i def want to look into quickly
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: that is one of the links I had promised you weeks back, sorry!
<FFEMTcJ> lmao
<Michelle_Qimo> I think we need some Benny Lava in here tonight.
<mhall119> lol
<crashsystems> I can't believe I just watched that whole video Michelle_Qimo
<itnet7> Yeah seriously
<itnet7> lol
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: :D
<Michelle_Qimo> you'll sing it for the next week
<Michelle_Qimo> there's a claymation video, too
<crashsystems> o_O
<FFEMTcJ> what else?
<Michelle_Qimo> um... I think he has a CD available...
<itnet7> mhall119: I will check on the stuff about how to best use Launchpad...
<mhall119> and?
<mhall119> oh, sorry, you will check
<mhall119> I fail reading comprehension
<itnet7> Yeah, and I am about to have my battery die
<itnet7> but before it does
<itnet7> I wanted to say we were kicking around the idea of trying to get loco teams to earn karma based on participation
<FFEMTcJ> i saw that somewhere
<itnet7> not sure if all of you had heard that or not
<Michelle_Qimo> nope, hadn't heard. But, I haven't been paying attention
<itnet7> and with the loco event directory innitiative it will be easier to provide support, as we are going to have to go for re-approval soon
<itnet7> actually it was originally set for 2 years
<FFEMTcJ> chris, what is involved in re-approval?
<itnet7> the team just kind of has to show that we are alive and kicking
<Michelle_Qimo> I have photos for proof!
<FFEMTcJ> ok.. so no real work that needs to be done
<itnet7> and that we continue to deserve to be an approved team
<FFEMTcJ> no you dont
<itnet7> yes Michelle_Qimo !
<crashsystems> Has everyone heard of "Ubuntu Hour?"
<Michelle_Qimo> we are alive, and kicking ass, tyvm.
<FFEMTcJ> no
<Michelle_Qimo> nope
<crashsystems> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Hour
<itnet7> it probably won't be difficult considering we have always had good presence at UDS, and plenty of events and participation/contribution
<itnet7> Mentoring other teams also came up as well
<itnet7> which I know that some of us have been doing
<itnet7> but it would be cool for Michelle_Qimo to earn Karma for her orgnzing skills
<FFEMTcJ> anyone want to do an ubuntu hour in orlando
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: so, tell me how I can do this.
<itnet7> Oh, yeah the ubuntu hour thing is cool!!!
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: we just discussed it today
<Michelle_Qimo> aah
<Michelle_Qimo> OK
<itnet7> We hope to try and figure a way to implement it
<FFEMTcJ> who all is in the orlando area?
<crashsystems> itnet7: do you have the link of the session schedule?
<itnet7> but that way those that contribute in very talented ways can also get karma and recognition
<Michelle_Qimo> FFEMTcJ: we're close enough to count
<itnet7> crashsystems: yes
<FFEMTcJ> crashsystems: http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-l/
<itnet7> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-l/2009-11-18/
<itnet7> Tomorrows
<itnet7> then just change the date for the rest of the week
<FFEMTcJ> mines the whole week
<FFEMTcJ> :-P
<FFEMTcJ> and first
<FFEMTcJ> :-P
<FFEMTcJ> messin with ya itnet7
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: lol
<roadmap> So
<roadmap> What'd I miss, I walked away
<roadmap> =(
<FFEMTcJ> food
<roadmap> WAT?
<FFEMTcJ> we were discussing the feed roadmap initiative.. but you werent here to finalize the plans so we scrapped it
<zoopster> sorry can't keep up with the meetings here
<roadmap> thats BRF
<X-Man> Do you earn Karma for organizing an Ubuntu Hour?
<roadmap> You have it all wnrong
<Michelle_Qimo> FFEMTcJ: I like you more and more
<FFEMTcJ> i renamed it
<roadmap> How about "buy roadmap a predator BK 2 breaking cue"
<itnet7> rofl
<FFEMTcJ> watch out.. my wife might get jealous
<Michelle_Qimo> nah, I like her too much, too
<FFEMTcJ> hehe
<FFEMTcJ> well in that case.. heh
<Michelle_Qimo> oh, hush, you
<Michelle_Qimo> :-P
<Michelle_Qimo> So. itnet7, everyone else, you know I'm willing to organize the snot out of something. Just tell me what and where
<FFEMTcJ> I wonder if there is a way to tie any launchpad work into a loco.. maybe that is something we should suggest for launchpad..
<roadmap> Lol
<crashsystems> my closet
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: can do
<FFEMTcJ> that when itnet7 gets karma, fl gets karma too
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: lol
<crashsystems> actually, everything in there could get thrown away and I would not care
<Michelle_Qimo> well, then it'll be easy
<itnet7> wow, I am surprised I still have Karma
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<Michelle_Qimo> you are Karma, itnet7
<Michelle_Qimo> :D
<itnet7> lol Michelle_Qimo
<itnet7> it does degrade when you aren't contributing
<crashsystems> do I get Karma for running Karmic?
<itnet7> lol
<itnet7> crashsystems: everyone should get karma for installing Karmic
<itnet7> that would be cool if you got like 20 never expire points
<crashsystems> how does one express the cheesy-joke drum sound in ascii?
<itnet7> for installing each version
<itnet7> lol
<itnet7> I don't know but installed Jono's lolocopter app
<Michelle_Qimo> crashsystems: ba-dum-tish
<crashsystems> or utf8 for that matter
<Michelle_Qimo> but it's not ascii
<crashsystems> what, unicode?
<FFEMTcJ> I would like to maybe do something on the website that maybe requires login info to get to.. but includes like real name, irc name (and elsewhere if different) a picture, a location, etc..
<FFEMTcJ> could have as much or little info as a particular user wants to give
<FFEMTcJ> but make it somewhere where you have to login to get to so we dont broadcast everything..
<crashsystems> that would probably be best on the wiki
<roadmap> So wait you want a facebook
<roadmap> Only
<FFEMTcJ> roadmap: no
<roadmap> on the Ubuntu Loco
<roadmap> how about we just integrate the Facebook API into the website?
<roadmap> Let users ilnk their accounts
<Michelle_Qimo> OK, everyone. I'm way tired. Someone poke me if I'm needed?
<FFEMTcJ> no status crap or anything like that
* FFEMTcJ pokes Michelle_Qimo
<roadmap> FFEMTcJ, Why reinvent the wheel when someone has done it for you (and probably bettert)
<roadmap> better <-
<Michelle_Qimo> sigh.
<FFEMTcJ> i want something basic..
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: are you talking about your own blog, or ubuntu-fl.org
<FFEMTcJ> u-fl
<FFEMTcJ> like a who's who page
<FFEMTcJ> just really basic info tho.. not anything crazy like facebook
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: we had a couple of ideas for something similar
<FFEMTcJ> a picture, so we have a reference as to who we are talking to online/offline.. a first name or whatever.. what part of fl.. and if you want your contact info or whatever
<itnet7> kind of like the hall-of-fame.ubuntu.com
<Michelle_Qimo> teammates.ubuntu-fl.org?
<FFEMTcJ> teammates would work..
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: i guess kinda like hall of fame, but for everyone.. no one left behind
<Michelle_Qimo> sorta works with the whole community building idea
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<FFEMTcJ> yup
<itnet7> We also thought about doing stuff like, 5-10 minute blog-style interviews of team members
<FFEMTcJ> but like i said.. private, so that not everyone can get into it
<Michelle_Qimo> OOOH, I wanna do that!
<itnet7> Oh
<Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: can I conduct 'em?
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ:
<FFEMTcJ> by everyone i mean outside of the group everyone.. all members have access
<itnet7> I understand what you mean
<itnet7> now
<FFEMTcJ> like for mine.. FFEMTcJ, Chris, Orlando, FL and a picture
<itnet7> waht we were talking about was to kind of highlight team contributors and encourage others
<FFEMTcJ> ya.. im talking a roster i guess?
<FFEMTcJ> lol
<X-Man> Isn't there wiki pages on Ubuntu community like this already?
<Michelle_Qimo> ok, now I really am calling it a night. Night all! Poke me if there's something important.
<FFEMTcJ> night Michelle_Qimo
<FFEMTcJ> X-Man: i havent seen one.. doesnt mean it isnt there tho
<X-Man> isn't this an example of what you are talking about https://edge.launchpad.net/~itnet7
<FFEMTcJ> even more basic
<FFEMTcJ> but all on one page
<X-Man> you can click on https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida
<X-Man> and them click on a member's profile
<FFEMTcJ> right.. but that takes a while.. and if their name isnt the same as their nick.. or whatever
<roadmap> Uhhhhhhhhhhh
<roadmap> Meeting over?
<roadmap> Again I've been AWOL
<X-Man> night all
<FFEMTcJ> night X-Man
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Users similar to that
<itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: yes
<itnet7> you can do the interviews if you want to
<itnet7> that would be sweet!!!
<FFEMTcJ> cause i know the faces, and know the irc nicks, but id like an easy way to put them together
<itnet7> FFEMTcJ: I think that your idea is a good one also
<itnet7> is pak33m around?
<FFEMTcJ> but if there is no other interest, thats cool too
<roadmap> I'm looking for a second cue recommendation
<roadmap> I think I've out grown my current stick and who here plays pool?
<itnet7> if pak33m or Michelle_Qimo whoever would like to can look at the minutes and digest them into action items that would be awesome!
<itnet7> no pressure if either one of you can't
<itnet7> but I think we discussed a lot of ideas
<itnet7> good ideas
<itnet7> I should have said
<itnet7> I will find out tomorrow about using blueprints to manage team projects and the best way to do it
<FFEMTcJ> itnet7: if you get more info, im interested in that as well
<itnet7> cool will let you all know talk with you tomorrow
</pre>
