{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Key Details ==

* Last Approval Date - September 27, 2007
* Team Contact - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>,<nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>
* Membership - 264 as of March 1st, 2010
* Forum - http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=225
* Launchpad - http://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida
* Mailing List - Ubuntu-us-fl on lists.ubuntu.com (Archives <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-fl|here]]</nowiki>)
* IRC - #ubuntu-florida on Freenode
* Month <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-TeamReports|Team Reports]]</nowiki>

== Roadmap ==
* '''Local Advocacy:'''
** Organizing UbuCon at this year's ALF
** Florida Linux Show
** Ubuntu Bootcamp, 
** Spacecoast and Tampa Meetups
** Ubuntu Hours in Orlando and Tampa
* '''Community Educating:'''
** Participate in organizing and teaching for Ubuntu User Days
** Continue participation in the UCLP & Ubuntu Classroom
** Continued participation in local and global Jams
* '''Charitable Advocacy and Exposure:'''
** Continued work with Qimo
**** Build Day on January 23, 2010 - troubleshooting and installation in 43 computers
**** Anchor House Build-day in February networking 6-12 computers for a computer lab for a transient boys home.
* '''LoCo Support:'''
** Continue mentoring LoCo teams
** Continue to provide support in IRC and forums
* '''Development'''
** jams as teaching opportunities, pimping dev week???

== Experience ==
* '''Communication:'''
** We are maintaining multiple lines of communication, including <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam|a Wiki]]</nowiki>, a <nowiki>[[http://florida.ubuntuforums.org|sub-forum]]</nowiki>, an IRC Channel (#ubuntu-florida) and <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-fl|a mailing list]]</nowiki>.
** We are still also utilizing the <nowiki>[[https://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-us-florida/|Launchpad Beta Mailing List]]</nowiki>
* '''Local Advocacy:'''
** Represented Ubuntu and the Florida Team at every Florida Linux show to date (Handed out CD's and Information Packets @ our Florida Team Booth)
** Atlanta Linux Fest (Show of Support for Atlanta LoCo and had a table for advocacy several members of Florida Team attended)
** Held Release Parties all over the State for Hardy, Intrepid, Jaunty, Karmic, and planning now for Lucid.
** Celebrated at a 60-person strong anniversary celebration. 
** Established our first Ubuntu Hours in Orlando and Tampa, and have plans as mentioned above for the future.
** Regular monthly meetups in Tampa and Now on the SpaceCoast.
** Instrumental in the organisation of Ubuntu User Day, and several members lead sessions.  
* '''Community Educating:'''
** Ubuntu User Day
*** Organized by <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cjohnston]]</nowiki>
*** Classes taught by <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jamalta]]</nowiki>
** UCLP & Ubuntu Classroom
*** Multiple members involved in the UCLP and Ubuntu Classroom Projects
* '''Charitable Advocacy and Exposure:'''
** In the past 12 months, we have hosted 3 build or install days, working with Qimo4Kids to get computers to at-risk children.  One of these installs was at a local at-risk youth shelter, where all of the resident children got involved.  We had 75 participants, and built approximately 40 computers.  
* '''LoCo Support:'''
** Multiple members are mentors to other LoCo's
* '''Development'''
** LoCo Directory
** Zeitgeist
** ClassBot
** Ubuntu.com Website Localization

== Event Galleries ==

* Install Fest:
** http://picasaweb.google.com/mhall119/Installfest
** http://picasaweb.google.com/itnet7/InstallFest

* Space Coast Linux and OSS Meetup:
 http://picasaweb.google.com/itnet7/FirstSpaceCoastLinuxOSSMeetup

* Ubuntu Hour Orlando:
 http://picasaweb.google.com/mhall119/UbuntuHour

* Karmic release party/LoCo Birthday Bash
 http://picasaweb.google.com/mhall119/UbuntuFLBirthdayBash

* FLS Orlando 2009
 http://picasaweb.google.com/mhall119/FLS

* Youth Build Day
 http://www.quinncoincorporated.org/2009/08/youth-build-day-pictures/

== Testimonials ==

The Florida Lo``Co rocks. That is all. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nali]]</nowiki> 