{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== In Attendance ====

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki>

{OK} kch

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki>

=== Florida Linux Show Topical Discussion (Possible Room Sharing, Carpooling, Needs, and Ideas) ===
  
** Carpooling was offered up by <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki>

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> has a convention pack that will be used.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> asked what the team would like to do at the booth. Ideas that were proposed:
* Ubuntu demos with a focus on users
* Net Neutrality petition
* Sign up for mailing lists
* 5013C donation jug for Qimo
* Slide show presentations 
** A to-bring list will be created on the FloridaLinuxShow page [1]

** Several team members will contribute by bringing power cords, etc. for the booth.
  
=== Florida Team LoCo Bash ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> will have the bash at their house in Lakeland and everybody is welcome to bring side dishes and spouses for the first SO meetup.

** So far 22 people have RSVP'd for the bash [2].
** Food sign up [3].

=== Ubuntu's 5th Birthday Today ===
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> wanted to mention it.

=== New Ubuntu Code of Conduct ===
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> listed several blog posts about the new Code Of Conduct and recommended that each team member check it out.

=== Trolls and how we should try and handle them as a team. Quiet vs. Banning ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> talked about how to handle people trolling the IRC channel and suggested how to deal with it as individuals and a team members.

=== Drivers Automation take 3 ===
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki> talked again (briefly about his proposed project and possibly joining up with the Jnode [4] to port drivers to Linux. 

=== Next Meeting ===
** Next meeting is scheduled for November 3^rd^ at 8 PM.

==== Links ====
       [1] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/FloridaLinuxShow-2009O <<BR>>
       [2] http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10712190/ <<BR>>
       [3] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/FlocoBday09 <<BR>>
       [4] http://www.jnode.org/node/2976 <<BR>>

       
