{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Welcome New User To Ubuntu! ==

There are plenty of places you, as a user, can find help, from adding your printer to installing new applications.

The first place you can look is the help file on your copy of Ubuntu.

* From the menu at the top of the screen, click on '''System > Help'''.
* In the search field, type in a word in reference what you are
 looking for, such as printing, email, or install programs.
* Click on a topic in the window with information that you need.
 
=== Looking For Help Online ===
The Ubuntu LoCo Florida team is committed in helping you find answers!
* You can visit http://florida.ubuntuforums.org and post your questions.
* There is an online manual available at https://help.ubuntu.com/

==== Immediate Florida Community Support ====

If you want instant chat support, please follow these instructions. You must already have Ubuntu installed.

1. Click on '''Applications > Internet > Pidgin Internet Messenger'''
2. The first time that it is opened, you will be asked to add an account.
3. Click on the Add button, then in the Protocol menu select IRC.
4. Type in your desired screen name for the chat session. You may leave everything else as it is.
5. Click on save. If you see a checkbox that says "Enabled" above it, make sure that it is checked.
6. You will be connected to the Ubuntu chat servers, from which you can have two options:
** You can join the generic Ubuntu channel, where hundreds of people are available willing to help you.
** To do this, type '''/join #ubuntu''' once you are connected.
** You may also join the Florida channel if you want more local support.
** For the Florida chat channel, type '''/join #ubuntu-us-fl''' once connected.
7. Ask away!

=== Other Resources For Help And Education ===

==== The Ubuntu New User Network ====

The Ubuntu New User Network was established to mentor and assist of new users of Ubuntu.  The New User Network is comprised of team members made up of other Ubuntu users who devote 10 hours a week to helping new users of Ubuntu in the forums, mailing lists and IRC.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewUserNetwork|NewUserNetwork]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu New User Network sponsors the Classroom project which consists of biweekly tutorials in IRC that cover a variety of subjects relating to Ubuntu.  

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom|Classroom]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu New User Network posts the Classroom Transcripts of past tutorials.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ClassroomTranscripts|ClassroomTranscripts]]</nowiki>

==== Ubuntu Open Week ====

During the week of, April 23 - 28, Jono Bacon, who is the Ubuntu Community Manager, organzied Ubuntu Open Week which was a series of tutorials in IRC that covered a variety of subjects relating to Ubuntu that were conducted by many Ubuntu Community leaders. 

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuOpenWeek]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu Open Week transcripts are posted.

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekfeisty/|Ubuntu Open Week Transcripts]]</nowiki>

==== Florida LUGs (Linux User Groups) And Other Groups That Promote, Educate And Support Linux And FOSS (Free And Open Source Software) ====

<nowiki>[[http://linux.fau.edu/|Florida Atlantic University (FAU) Linux User Group Boca Raton (Florida Atlantic University)]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.flux.org/|Florida Linux User Exchange (FLUX) Davie]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.flalug.org/|Florida Linux Users Group (FLALUG) Clearwater]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.gatorlug.org/|GatorLUG Gainesville]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.golug.org/|Greater Orlando Linux Users Group (GoLUG) Orlando area]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.jaxlug.org/index.php/Main|Page Jacksonville Linux Users Group (JaxLUG) Jacksonville]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.leap-cf.org/|Linux Enthusiasts and Professionals of Central Florida (LEAP-CF) Orlando]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.lugmiami.org/|Linux Users Group of Miami Miami]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.lugot.org/|Linux Users Group of Thomasville/Tallahassee (LUGOT) Thomasville/Tallhassee]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www2.mmae.ucf.edu/wiki/LUG|Orlando/ (University of Central Florida)]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.mlinux.org/|Melbourne Linux Users Group Melbourne]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.pbclug.org/|Palm Beach County Linux Users Group Lake Worth]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.pcolalug.org/|Pensacola Linux Users Group Pensacola]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.swflug.org/|Southwest Florida GNU/Linux Users Group (SWFLUG) Cape Coral]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://www.suncoastlug.org/|Suncoast Linux Users Group (SLUG) Tampa Bay area]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://linux.meetup.com/cities/us/fl/|Linux Meetups in Florida]]</nowiki>

==== Unofficial Ubuntu HOWTO, Tutorial And Educational Resources ====

The Ubuntuguide is an very easy and well-versed HOWTO guide for all versions of Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Main_Page|Ubuntuguide]]</nowiki>

The Ubuntu Linux Resources is an effective set of tutorials and HOWTO guide that is maintained by a highly praised member of the Ubuntu forums.

<nowiki>[[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/index.php|Ubuntu Linux Resources]]</nowiki>

A centralized archival repository for information that is produced on the Ubuntu forums.

<nowiki>[[http://doc.gwos.org/|Ubuntu Document Storage Facility]]</nowiki>

The APT HOWTO provides a thorough understanding of APT works.  APT is the command-line utility that provides the same features as Synaptic, the gaphical package manager for Ubuntu.

<nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/apt-howto/|APT HOWTO]]</nowiki> 

=== Pre-Installed Linux Computers ===

<nowiki>[[http://lxer.com/module/db/index.php?dbn=14|Pre-Installed Linux Vendor Database]]</nowiki> 

 
