{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The next big thing coming up will always be listed here for discussion, ideas, and planning. Once we get rolling and maybe have more than one event planned, this page will change.

=== EOCC Business Expo ''June 1'' ===

MikeFeravolo is  hosting a table at the East Orlando Chamber of Commerce Business Expo on June 1st ''(details at bottom)''. This event is open to the public and everyone is welcome to attend, and help spread the good word about Ubuntu. 

EOCC Business Expo starts at 1 o'clock in the afternoon and is open to the public. Meaning that anyone can just show up and just hang out, I will be bringing at least two computers attached together with a crossover cable, a 4-port switch and USB Wifi Adapters. I appears that the Holiday Inn Select at the University of Central Florida (UCF) has free Internet, but just in case we experience problems with the connection. We will load the both systems with all kinds of application software. 

Along two computers I will have as all the Ubuntu Trade Show Swag along with whatever other else I can think of bringing to lure people to our table. I will also bring a Ultra Mobile PC (UMPC) to show how well Ubuntu plays with windows and to show how to boot ubuntu from a USB key for demonstration  purposes.

Feel free to harass Mike on his cell phone (321-278-8642), call his office (321-784-5553) [which also rings at his home], eztips at earthlink dot net, or just show up at the show on June 1. It's okay to just show up with a notebook system with you or anything else that you can easily carry. Follow the link below for more information about the Holiday Inn Select University of Central Florida (UCF): 

http://www.ichotelsgroup.com/h/d/sl/1/en/hotel/mcouc?rpb=hotel&crUrl=/h/d/hi/1/en/hotelsearchresults
 
Interested in helping out at this function ? Then add your name to this list by editing this wiki page (or message ChrisRohde to do it for you if you don't know moinmoin yet).
 
Rate how certain you are that you can attend by 1-5

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Member'''
| '''Certainty'''
| '''Location'''
| '''Able to Bring'''
|-
| ChrisRohde
| 2 (its a friday)
| Lakeland
| Many *Buntu CDs
|-
| MartinWilson
| 5
| Volusia
| Demonstration Laptop
|-
| PatrickJarrett
| 4
| Orlando
| Demo Laptop + maybe T-shirts
|}

=== Details ===

Extracted from the East Orlando Chamber of Commerce Web Site
(http://EOCC.ORG) 

EOCC Express Business Expo

When:  Friday, June 1st 
       1:00 pm to 4:00pm

Where:  Holiday Inn Select, UCF
        12125 High Tech Ave.
        Orlando, FL 32817

Sponsored by:
Insight Marketing Group

Business Expo
The Afternoon Express  (1:00 - 4:00pm)

The Afternoon Express is an interactive business expo where attendees will visit 30 destinations (booths) and enjoy relevant educational seminars.

Includes:

*** 8' x 10' exhibit space
      (table supplied upon request only)

Cost $175 for Members.   $225 for Non-Members.

NOTE: If you are interested in the speed networking event in the morning the cost is $40 and you can sign up online: http://EOCC.ORG. I don't plan to do the speed networking, since I would rather take the extra time to prepare for the afternoon event.
