{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

(08:08:14 PM) pak33m: START MEETING

(08:08:22 PM) pak33m: lets get a show of hands...

(08:08:35 PM) ***dantalizing spins

(08:08:38 PM) Catsceo: here!

(08:08:57 PM) ***martin_wilson89 is here

(08:09:33 PM) pak33m: ok, think thats it then

(08:10:07 PM) Catsceo: my my, WAKE UP PEOPLE

(08:10:21 PM) pak33m: firstly, can we all agree to have a relatively short meet tonight?

(08:10:27 PM) Catsceo: hmm, ok

(08:10:28 PM) pak33m: or shorter

(08:10:29 PM) martin_wilson89: Sounds good with me

(08:10:42 PM) martin_wilson89: I noticed there isn't much on the agenda

(08:10:48 PM) Catsceo: yeah

(08:10:57 PM) pak33m: i just added some things tonight just to get some talking going

(08:11:17 PM) pak33m: everybody go here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings if not already

(08:11:25 PM) ***Catsceo is there

(08:11:58 PM) pak33m: i wanna go down the list by topic

(08:12:03 PM) Catsceo: ok

(08:12:03 PM) pak33m: cool?

(08:12:06 PM) martin_wilson89: Cool

(08:12:35 PM) pak33m: 1st topic  - introductions to new members

(08:12:47 PM) pak33m: whos new and wants to talk about themsleves

(08:13:13 PM) ***Catsceo hears crickets

(08:13:18 PM) John_W3GQJ: I will talk about myself if you want.

(08:13:26 PM) martin_wilson89: Oh hey John

(08:13:32 PM) martin_wilson89: I just added you to the Roster

(08:13:33 PM) Catsceo: go right ahead :)

(08:13:41 PM) pak33m: John_W bang on

(08:13:55 PM) pak33m: and welcome

(08:14:16 PM) John_W3GQJ: OK. Thank you.  I live in The Villages, FL and just started using Ubuntu about a week 
ago.  I am using the browser version of chat.

(08:14:33 PM) Catsceo: ah

(08:14:34 PM) John_W3GQJ: I need to figure out how to use GAIM.

(08:14:48 PM) Catsceo: sudo apt-get install xchat

(08:14:54 PM) martin_wilson89: For chat I recommend xchat

(08:14:55 PM) pak33m: John_W: were all here to help anytime

(08:14:58 PM) Catsceo: xchat is a good client

(08:15:11 PM) lando: irssi is superior!

(08:15:28 PM) martin_wilson89: John, just out of curiosity, is Ubuntu your first Linux distribution?

(08:15:36 PM) pak33m: John_W: we exist to provide support for ubuntu

(08:15:38 PM) Catsceo: if he's new to Ubuntu he won't want to use irssi -_-

(08:15:45 PM) pak33m: hey lando

(08:15:47 PM) John_W3GQJ: I will give xchat a try  later.  Thanks.

(08:15:50 PM) lando: sup pak331

(08:15:53 PM) dantalizing: I dont want to use irssi

(08:16:03 PM) Catsceo: finally people are showing up :)

(08:16:07 PM) lando: i like console apps for use with screen

(08:16:12 PM) pak33m: anybody else new here or anybody just wanna talk about themsleves?

(08:16:25 PM) lando: I smell

(08:16:33 PM) dantalizing: yeah but thats not new

(08:16:37 PM) John_W3GQJ: I messed with some stuff about 10 years ago and never went furhter.

(08:16:42 PM) lando: :)

(08:17:23 PM) martin_wilson89: Very cool John_W3GQJ, Ubuntu is a good mix of easieness with power under the hood.

(08:17:36 PM) pak33m: movin on to the next topic then...

(08:17:53 PM) pak33m: 2nd topic - Ubuntu Marketing has started a Viral Video project and requested that all LoCos 
participate. How can Ubuntu-Florida contribute? 

(08:17:53 PM) pak33m:  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MarketingTeam/UbuntuViralVideos

(08:18:16 PM) pak33m: ...forgot who posted this one, if its you lets us know whatits about

(08:18:40 PM) dantalizing: basically the marketing team is trying to get some youtube exposure

(08:18:43 PM) dantalizing: for ubuntu

(08:18:45 PM) ianmcorvidae: johnc4510 posted that, I think.

(08:18:52 PM) ***ianmcorvidae disappears again :)

(08:18:58 PM) dantalizing: similar to what mozilla and openmoko have done

(08:18:59 PM) Catsceo: I got nothin on that stuff :/

(08:19:13 PM) dantalizing: if anyone is good with video

(08:19:20 PM) pak33m: yes, thats correct its being promoted by the us teams

(08:19:32 PM) dantalizing: but they asked for help from all the locos

(08:19:40 PM) pak33m: anybody good with video here that want s to take a stab?

(08:19:41 PM) martin_wilson89: If we don't make it live action it would be easier make our contribution "open", ie 
make it easy for everyone to contribute

(08:19:59 PM) martin_wilson89: But I suck at Blender

(08:20:05 PM) Catsceo: pak331: I might try to make one

(08:20:25 PM) Catsceo: but school starts tomarrow and I will have almost no free time :(

(08:20:32 PM) martin_wilson89: If we get a video soon we could present it at barcamp

(08:20:58 PM) pak33m: can we all agree to add this to or proposed projects page and anybody can put their name next 
to it?

(08:21:05 PM) martin_wilson89: Sounds good

(08:21:05 PM) Catsceo: oh, I'm pleased to announce that I will be a barcamp ^_^

(08:21:07 PM) dantalizing: yup

(08:21:14 PM) pak33m: martin: very nice!

(08:21:20 PM) Catsceo: pak331: sure

(08:21:45 PM) martin_wilson89: Thanks :)

(08:21:52 PM) John_W3GQJ: What is barcamp?

(08:22:15 PM) martin_wilson89: http://www.barcamporlando.org/

(08:22:22 PM) martin_wilson89: I'm not good at explaining lol

(08:23:03 PM) dantalizing: topic 3?

(08:23:52 PM) dantalizing: ping?

(08:24:14 PM) Catsceo: hello?

(08:24:20 PM) pak33m: before we move on martin would you like to take up the video 

(08:24:40 PM) martin_wilson89: Um I can suggest ideas but that's about as far as I go with video skills

(08:24:44 PM) Catsceo: pak331: I'll try to help too, if I have freetime

(08:24:52 PM) martin_wilson89: I'm good with non open source tools, but they cost money

(08:25:02 PM) ***Catsceo has some of them

(08:25:31 PM) pak33m: cool, anybody interested sign up for the marketing team if not already and look for the 
upcoming projects page that bordy and i wil be creating

(08:25:47 PM) pak33m: topic 3 - SFD in Gainesville (15 Sept). Some members expressed an interest in driving up. 
Current plans are for 9a - 3p at the downtown library. GatorLUG has secured a large room there.

(08:26:04 PM) martin_wilson89: I definitely can go if we participate

(08:26:06 PM) pak33m: dan, did you post this one, if so enlighten us

(08:26:07 PM) Catsceo: I won't be there :/

(08:26:45 PM) dantalizing: i did

(08:26:50 PM) Bordy [n=Bordy@unaffiliated/bordy] entered the room.

(08:26:55 PM) dantalizing: basically sfd on 9/15

(08:26:55 PM) pak33m: maybe it doesnt need explaining

(08:26:56 PM) Catsceo: Bordy!!!!

(08:26:59 PM) pak33m: sorry

(08:27:01 PM) Bordy: oy

(08:27:01 PM) dantalizing: downtown library

(08:27:09 PM) dantalizing: 9a - 3p ish

(08:27:09 PM) Bordy: connection is bad on bb

(08:27:18 PM) dantalizing: depending on how its going

(08:27:27 PM) martin_wilson89: Hey what's up Bordy

(08:27:35 PM) pak33m: on that topic does anybody else know of any other places to go for SFD

(08:27:47 PM) pak33m: hey bordy

(08:27:53 PM) martin_wilson89: Did we have prior SFD plans?

(08:28:03 PM) martin_wilson89: I could swear we were cooking something up

(08:28:09 PM) dantalizing: who will be coming to g'vile?

(08:28:13 PM) martin_wilson89: I will

(08:28:17 PM) Bordy: I prolly will

(08:28:20 PM) Catsceo: I won't

(08:28:47 PM) dantalizing: if you can bring a linux system to demo

(08:28:50 PM) Bordy: so I can't stay, got stuck in tampa and am now @ dinner w/ the wif

(08:28:55 PM) martin_wilson89: Will do

(08:29:03 PM) martin_wilson89: Have a lappy that runs Ubuntu

(08:29:04 PM) Bordy: yup

(08:29:18 PM) Bordy: I have 2, ones on xubuntu

(08:29:35 PM) dantalizing: yall willing for people to bang on them?

(08:29:41 PM) martin_wilson89: No

(08:29:41 PM) Bordy: alright bbiab

(08:29:42 PM) martin_wilson89: lol

(08:29:44 PM) pak33m: dan, i have a DJ gig that night but i would like to know if somethins going on close to me - 
Orlando

(08:30:09 PM) Bordy left the room (quit: Client Quit).

(08:30:23 PM) pak33m: anybody else have anything else for SFD?

(08:30:27 PM) dantalizing: afaik only gainesville has somehting going on in florida

(08:30:35 PM) dantalizing: but the sfd site might have something

(08:30:39 PM) martin_wilson89: Do we expect the G'ville SFD crowd to be hitting stuff?

(08:30:43 PM) pak33m: ill check the site

(08:30:50 PM) martin_wilson89: gtg, packing for college

(08:30:56 PM) martin_wilson89: Willl check log later

(08:30:59 PM) martin_wilson89 left the room (quit: "Ex-Chat").

(08:31:09 PM) dantalizing: public will be playing with stuff...hopefully

(08:31:33 PM) pak33m: how about something live, streamed yknow?

(08:31:58 PM) dantalizing: GatorLUG and Florida Free Culture will be organizing the event

(08:32:02 PM) dantalizing: possible pak

(08:32:09 PM) dantalizing: GatorLUG streams our meetings

(08:32:21 PM) dantalizing: I'll bring it up

(08:32:37 PM) pak33m: dan, what do plan to do there, anything for the team, ubuntu, etc?

(08:32:56 PM) dantalizing: Promoting Ubuntu

(08:33:07 PM) dantalizing: poningru has ordered ubuntu CDs

(08:33:16 PM) dantalizing: and demoing linux in general

(08:33:25 PM) pak33m: very cool

(08:34:06 PM) pak33m: would you add info about sfd and what youre doing for it to our upcoming poject page?

(08:34:14 PM) dantalizing: will do

(08:34:50 PM) pak33m: lets move on...

(08:35:19 PM) pak33m: 4th topic -Anybody want to conduct Ubuntu, Linux, Python, etc. tutorials in IRC for the team?

(08:35:34 PM) Catsceo: hahaha

(08:35:40 PM) dantalizing: i can do a tutorial on not using irssi

(08:35:41 PM) Catsceo: I know who added that :P

(08:35:51 PM) pak33m: or what to get us some info on the like

(08:36:16 PM) Catsceo: if somebody requests it, I'll help

(08:36:16 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: reveal?

(08:36:38 PM) pak33m: i know that i have found alot of great stuff at goggle videos tech talks

(08:36:50 PM) Catsceo: lando, he's been learning Python :)

(08:37:10 PM) pak33m: like talks on python and packaging debs

(08:37:19 PM) Catsceo: yeh

(08:37:23 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: nope it was me

(08:37:32 PM) Catsceo: oh?

(08:37:34 PM) Catsceo: hmm

(08:37:54 PM) pak33m: the tech talks on google video are varied

(08:38:07 PM) Catsceo: yeah

(08:38:42 PM) pak33m: i added the topic because of another team that does that

(08:38:53 PM) Catsceo: oh,c ool

(08:38:55 PM) dantalizing: i think its a good idea

(08:38:56 PM) Catsceo: cool*

(08:39:04 PM) pak33m: to learn more about what were promoting and supporting, etc

(08:40:02 PM) Catsceo: shall we move on?

(08:40:04 PM) pak33m: we could something up under our new user page or under the events page

(08:40:11 PM) Catsceo: hmm

(08:40:40 PM) pak33m: lets move on then..

(08:40:47 PM) pak33m: 5th topic - Any other events coming up for the team to get involved?

(08:41:00 PM) Catsceo: not that I can think of

(08:41:25 PM) pak33m: anybody else?

(08:42:00 PM) dantalizing: maybe we need a tutorials page?

(08:42:02 PM) dantalizing: on the wiki?

(08:42:12 PM) dantalizing: not here

(08:42:17 PM) Catsceo: oh, yes, good idea

(08:42:33 PM) pak33m: im going to take a look (as i ve already been doing) at other teams pages to see what theyre 
doing and propose some ideas

(08:42:37 PM) Catsceo: with links to other wiki pages if the topic is already covered

(08:42:51 PM) pak33m: dan: tutorials page sounds good

(08:43:50 PM) pak33m: ubuntu arizona has a server event that is cool

(08:43:59 PM) pak33m: or project

(08:44:14 PM) pak33m: ok, next topic

(08:44:28 PM) pak33m: 6th topic - Discuss the team BBS setup by Catsceo

(08:44:31 PM) Catsceo: ^_^

(08:44:44 PM) pak33m: go ahead Catsceo let us know

(08:44:45 PM) Catsceo: OK, http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=523654

(08:45:02 PM) Catsceo: thats the sticky thread with info on how to login

(08:45:27 PM) Catsceo: if anybody wants the ip and pass contact me thru PM

(08:45:52 PM) Catsceo: I want this to be used as a file server for the whole team

(08:46:08 PM) Catsceo: IE, share (legal) software

(08:46:30 PM) Catsceo: pics, ideas, maybe music (LEGAL) down the road

(08:47:00 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: very nice!!

(08:47:01 PM) Catsceo: Currently it runs Debain, I'm waiting for the next LTS to upgrade

(08:47:29 PM) Catsceo: I need to get a new mobo and case for it, if anybody wishes to donate $$$ ask me

(08:47:47 PM) Catsceo: hmm, what else

(08:47:55 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: im going to get there eventually

(08:47:59 PM) pak33m: to the BBS

(08:48:13 PM) Catsceo: meeting minutes will be posted in the Wiki folder

(08:48:36 PM) Catsceo: the Forum folder is like a real forum, but using txt files :P

(08:49:13 PM) Catsceo: Software folder is for small software files (IE, .debs, .tar.gz's, etc)
(
08:49:21 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: if we have any tutorials, tech talks, etc. that we want to post there can we do that?

(08:49:42 PM) Catsceo: the ubuntufldisk link is for large files (IE ISO's, etc)

(08:50:03 PM) Catsceo: pak331: you can do anything other than hack it and put illegal stuff on it :)

(08:50:23 PM) pak33m: ok, i think we could all agree not to do that

(08:50:29 PM) dantalizing: -1

(08:50:33 PM) dantalizing: ;)

(08:50:37 PM) Catsceo: Misc is for random stuff, bordy has already added to it :)

(08:50:51 PM) Catsceo: thats about it

(08:51:03 PM) Catsceo: remember to PM me if you need the login info

(08:51:18 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: cool, thanks again

(08:51:27 PM) Catsceo: welcome :)

(08:51:41 PM) pak33m: 7th (and last) topic - Discuss team news and/or ideas?

(08:52:19 PM) Catsceo: Other than my server will be upgraded at some point in the future, not really

(08:52:26 PM) pak33m: any sub-team, team members or anybody have any news for the team or their sub-team or want to 
discuss the exising team

(08:52:52 PM) Catsceo: I haven't gotin anywhere with FGCF yet :/

(08:53:02 PM) pak33m: everybody like what were doing here already?

(08:53:15 PM) Catsceo: I am ^_^

(08:53:34 PM) pak33m: Catsceo: youve been a tremendous help already 

(08:53:45 PM) Catsceo: Thank you. :

(08:53:48 PM) Catsceo: :)*

(08:54:22 PM) pak33m: im just looking for some ideas from anybody about what we could do for the team 

(08:54:57 PM) pak33m: and feel free to add to the team wiki with anythingyou might think of later

(08:55:14 PM) Catsceo: will do

(08:55:25 PM) pak33m: everybody fall asleep?!

(08:55:29 PM) dantalizing: nope

(08:55:42 PM) pak33m: just checking

(08:55:43 PM) John_W3GQJ: ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ

(08:56:22 PM) pak33m: John_W: thanks for joining us, if you want to get involved with the team here let one of us 
know if you need help

(08:56:28 PM) Catsceo: meeting over?

(08:56:40 PM) ***Catsceo needs to get to bed, school tomarrow

(08:56:53 PM) pak33m: anybody got anything else?

(08:56:55 PM) John_W3GQJ: Thank you.  It is a bit over whelming!
(08:57:02 PM) dantalizing: nothing here

(08:57:49 PM) pak33m: John_W: take a look though what are team is doing and what other teams are too https://
wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoTeamList to get some ideas

(08:58:00 PM) pak33m: END MEETING
