{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IRC Logs from May 19, 2009 meeting: 
<pre>
<itnet7> Let's get this meeting started, Show of hands/
<itnet7> ?
* itnet7 present
* DixieDancer doesn't know what a G1 is.
<crashsystems1> .me
<crashsystems1> oops
* jamesrfla is hear
<dantalizing> o/
<itnet7> lol
<jamesrfla> DixieDancer: it is a cell phone offered by t-mobile
* DixieDancer raises a hand: "Present!"
<DixieDancer> okay
<itnet7> mhall119: ?
<itnet7> ropetin: ?
<mhall119> presemt
<crashsystems1> slackers :P
* mhall119 is wrangling children into their beds
<itnet7> I know it was pasted in before but....
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<itnet7> for the agenda
<crashsystems1> is spaz135 here?
<itnet7> lets give ropetin a couple of minutes
<itnet7> crashsystems1: ropetin put his name next to it, he might be the one to bring it up
<crashsystems1> i just noticed
<itnet7> I think spazz is from Miami/Ft. Lauderdale area
<mhall119> probably had to scroll sideways on his G1 to see it
* crashsystems1 is slow some times
<itnet7> you can finger flick it
<itnet7> :-)
<crashsystems1> mh
<mhall119> I thought Spazz was in the Jacksonville area
<itnet7> in irssi
<mhall119> itnet7: that sounds dirty
<itnet7> lol
<crashsystems1> mhall119 i had to switch apps to see it
<mhall119> that sounds less dirty
<crashsystems1> actually i am not in irssi
<itnet7> Just to let everyone know when you leave an agenda item you can put the @sig@ at the end of the line, as long as your logged into the wiki it will put your nick and a timestamp
<itnet7> it doesn't show in the preview
<itnet7> but will when you submit your change
<mhall119> oh, cool, good to know
<jamesrfla> Hi pak33m and erictee
<itnet7> Hey there pak33m and erictee !!
<crashsystems1> and itnet7, i found that you dont need connectbot to do ssh
* Michelle_Qimo is here... editing photo
<erictee> Hi All
<itnet7> crashsystems1: I know, I just liked connectbot
<crashsystems1> it is rather nice
<itnet7> you can use terminal emulator, and a couple of other apps too
<itnet7> good to see you erictee !!
<itnet7> Well mhall119 you want to cover your item
<crashsystems1> scp on the g1 ftw
<itnet7> and if ropetin comes in we can circle back
<itnet7> after your done
<mhall119> sure
<mhall119> for those that don't know, Qimo (our kid-friendly Linux Distro) is having a build day in Lakeland May 23rd
<Michelle_Qimo> I'll feed ya
<Michelle_Qimo> :-)
<mhall119> the computers we build will be donated children/schools/day cares/whoever needs them in the central florida area
<Michelle_Qimo> or in Tennessee, possibly
<itnet7> welcome racolavito !
<mhall119> additionally, about a half dozen of them are going to get trucked up to Tennessee to start a computer lab in a small town there
<crashsystems1> what town?
<Michelle_Qimo> Crossville
<jamesrfla> Can i have the floor?
<crashsystems1> sounds familiar
<itnet7> jamesrfla: after mhall119
<itnet7> ok
<mhall119> I've got a bunch of half-built computers that I will be bringing to the build day, but if you have any, whole or in parts, that you can contribute we would gladly take them
<Michelle_Qimo> Anyway, food, rowdy good time, laughing, computer parts.
<mhall119> we're going to have technical and non-technical alike coming, so bring friends and family
<Michelle_Qimo> Leave the diet at the door, as I'm making lasagna.
<mhall119> yeah, no diet, Michelle makes a killer lasagna
<mhall119> which she's going to make, in bulk, for anyone who shows up
<Michelle_Qimo> :-D
<dantalizing> nice
<Michelle_Qimo> complete with trimmings - garlic bread, salad, the ilk
<mhall119> Again, it's going to be in Lakeland. If you can make it, email her for directions Michelle@qimo4kids.com
<itnet7> Nice... wish I could make it... Not only for the lasagne
<Michelle_Qimo> So... email me.
<itnet7> Nice!!
<mhall119> yeah, you guys and your Barcelona trip
<mhall119> RSVP with Michelle if you can make it, so she knows how much to cook
<Michelle_Qimo> all of you going to Spain... Have a safe trip. Also, :-P
<crashsystems1> michell cam you email directions to the list?
<itnet7> we will have to make it out to the next one! Thanks Michelle_Qimo !
<mhall119> it'll be a great chance to meet and talk to people in this area who may not be familiar with Ubuntu or Linux
<mhall119> crashsystems1: the address should be on the meetup
<crashsystems1> ok
<DixieDancer> meetup?
<crashsystems1> cam == can
<itnet7> if mhall119, is done let jamesrfla have the floor for a second!
<mhall119> DixieDancer: http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux
<mhall119> unless there are any questions for me, I'm done with my part
<DixieDancer> got it, tnx
<itnet7> Not trying to rush anyone just not wanting to leave out jamesrfla
<itnet7> :-)
<itnet7> go ahead jamesrfla
<Michelle_Qimo> nope. without further ado.
<jamesrfla> thanks itnet7
<mhall119> oh, if there is anyone who wants to attend but needs transportation, just ask and we'll try and arrange something
<mhall119> now I'm done
<mhall119> honest
<jamesrfla> I just want to say that our school is doing something like what mhall119 wants to do
<mhall119> which school?
<jamesrfla> We get old computers from our big school distric that they don't need anymore. Fix them up and put XP on it and install modems in them
<itnet7> hey there reya276 !
<reya276> Morning
<crashsystems1> modems?
<jamesrfla> mhall119 Dunbar High school http://dhs.leeschools.net/
<mhall119> XP?
<jamesrfla> crashsystems1: dial up modems
<reya276> itnet7: yo
<jamesrfla> yeah the distric allows us to use there XP copies.
<mhall119> crashsystems1: a means of connecting to remote computes before the invention of broadband
<jamesrfla> And we give them out to people that don't have computers
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: sounds illegal
<mhall119> yeah, it kind of does
<mhall119> you should verify that their XP licenses allow that
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: not criticizing you, just something to look out for
<jamesrfla> dantalizing: Yeah I am not sure. It might be. I would put linux on it with the things that they would need it for.
<mhall119> yeah, you're doing something good, we don't want you to get sued for it
<jamesrfla> I brought that up with them and they said it is okay
<mhall119> if you can get the modems to work
<mhall119> do winmodems work on Linux yet?
<itnet7> jamesrfla: I put intrepid, and found a netzero client for this .org I donated a work pc to
<jamesrfla> I guess they think that we are using the OEM copies of XP that are on the box
<DixieDancer> omg, i wonder if my copy of Ubuntu is legal... ;)
<crashsystems1> jamesrfl i have found that most people dont understand windows licensing
<itnet7> DixieDancer: that is something you'll never have to worry about
<jamesrfla> yeah I don't like they way the program is going since the guy in charge doesn't seem to know much in this area
<reya276> nope they sure don't
<mhall119> jamesrfla: please add yourself to http://www.growingupfree.org/wiki/index.php/Projects
<DixieDancer> LOL, I was kidding... XP may have given the school district a corporate license like some ppl get for Win2K pro
<reya276> hey does anyone know if there is a different interface for netbook remix, this brown this is fugly
<reya276> *thing
<jamesrfla> mhall119 okay I will have to e-mail that to my teacher
<mhall119> ok
<crashsystems1> volume licensing is a strange beast
<mhall119> OEM licensing is strange too
<itnet7> You can change it up however you want reya276 ! I actually installed, Intrepid then set it up with the MI interface
<jamesrfla> mhall119 never wrote in wiki before.....I might be able to figure it
<jamesrfla> itnet7: that is all I have to say unless anybody has questions or something
<itnet7> jamesrfla: if you need some help let us know
<itnet7> with the wiki
<mhall119> jamesrfla: http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Contents
<itnet7> Thanks!
<reya276> itnet7: what how can I setup the Mi interface
<mhall119> or with the computers, we'll help however we can
<reya276> love the way that looks, or even the Dell one
<mhall119> reya276: can it wait until after the meeting?
<reya276> oh sorry, yes
<jamesrfla> yeah looking at it now
<itnet7> ropetin: ?
<itnet7> dantalizing: next topic?
<crashsystems1> so, we talk about website next?
<mhall119> I sent spazz and email reminder about the meeting
<itnet7> cool
<mhall119> on the off chance that he'll check his email
<crashsystems1> lol
<dantalizing> so reya276 and i have been working on redesigning and converting the website
<mhall119> wp or drupal?
<dantalizing> we're about ready to put the new site up live
<dantalizing> some QA would be helpful, if yall can take a look over the next few days
<dantalizing> mhall119: wp
<crashsystems1> wp ftw!
<dantalizing> the site is at http://loco-wp.ubuntu-fl.org/
<dantalizing> i havent moved over user accounts yet
<mhall119> I like the headliner, you should leave that up permanently
<dantalizing> mhall119: looks good, no?
<dantalizing> mhall119: reya276 did that
<mhall119> the link isn't working
<crashsystems1> i like the design
<itnet7> it worked for me
<crashsystems1> me too
<itnet7> oh
<reya276> it could be that is *.aspx jk
<mhall119> no, the link to the Qimo build day
<reya276> it works for me as well
<mhall119> huh
<dantalizing> hmm... me too
<mhall119> just doesn't like me I guess
<reya276> love the art work
<reya276> from the Qimo site
<mhall119> does wp support OpenID?
<mhall119> reya276: thanks
<dantalizing> mhall119: yes
<DixieDancer> nice! very good job with the new site
<crashsystems1> dantalizing is the planet about to go live too?
<mhall119> okay, the link works on the build day's page, but not the teaser on the front page
<dantalizing> crashsystems1: i'm going to put it up with the site, yes
<crashsystems1> woot
<itnet7> nice job you guys!
<itnet7> it looks great!
<crashsystems1> indeed
<dantalizing> ah mhall119 i see what you're saying now
<mhall119> yeah, kudos to you
<reya276> well let hope that everyone gets more involve with posting tutorials and articles, hence why we are using WP
<reya276> so no more excuses folks
<itnet7> +1 reya276
<crashsystems1> let me know how i can help with content
<mhall119> dantalizing: can you add the qimo4kids.com rss feed to the planet?
<dantalizing> crashsystems1: once i move over the accounts all resgistered users will be able to submit content
<dantalizing> crashsystems1: it will be moderated though
<reya276> crashsystems1: that is easy dude, all you got to do is talk about Ubuntu, and create tutorials for applications
<dantalizing> mhall119: of course!
<mhall119> cool
* DixieDancer already has an article in mind...
<reya276> awesome
<crashsystems1> speaking of applications, keryx 1.0 is comming up
<mhall119> what's that?
<reya276> what is keryx
<itnet7> excellent DixieDancer we look forward to it
<mhall119> nevermind, I googled it
<dantalizing> thats all i have ... if anyone finds any issues, please let me know
<dantalizing> or suggestions
<crashsystems1> http://keryxproject.org
<dantalizing> mhall119: i noted the openid
<itnet7> hey there Feravolo !
<mhall119> oh sweet, I've been looking for something like keryx
<Feravolo> hey
<reya276> ah cool
<crashsystems1> mhall119, 1.0 is going to be amazing
<itnet7> I guess we can discuss any other business then
<mhall119> crashsystems1: you involved in the development?
<mhall119> itnet7: LoCo Birthday Party?
<crashsystems1> yes
<itnet7> and move the spazz project to next meetings agende
<itnet7> mhall119: you guys are serious about a BBQ or something?
<mhall119> absolutely
<crashsystems1> mostly i have done documentation, debugging and pr work though
<mhall119> I used the smoker for the first time last weekend, on chicken
<mhall119> Michelle says I have to do it every weekend now ;)
<reya276> itnet7: PM me on how to get that Mini thing going for remix
<DixieDancer> that'd be cool - but we're already having a lasagna dinner on the 23rd
<mhall119> DixieDancer: the birthday party would be in September
<mhall119> September, right itnet7?
<DixieDancer> perfect! my birthday is in Sept
<itnet7> Sept. 27
<itnet7> yes!
<DixieDancer> ha! my b-day is the 26th
<itnet7> that is the anniversary of becoming an official team!
<mhall119> so, if enough people are interested and can make it, we'll hold it here at our house
<DixieDancer> awright! yaaaay
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/ApprovalApplication
<mhall119> and by enough I mean, like, one other person
<crashsystems1> lol
<DixieDancer> where is it?
<itnet7> o/
<mhall119> again, it'll be in Lakeland
<mhall119> for those who don't know where that is, it's about half way between Tampa and Orlando on I-4
<DixieDancer> not very far from me then
<itnet7> I will definitely come... and bring the familia!!
<mhall119> cool
<mhall119> I'll setup some extra computers with Qimo for the kids
<itnet7> it's the weekend following ALF
<itnet7> Nice!!
<DixieDancer> alien life forms?
<mhall119> Atlanta Linux Fest
<dantalizing> atlanta linux fest!
<DixieDancer> lol
<mhall119> ftw!
<DixieDancer> maybe i'll just canoe down there - pro'lly have to if this rain doesn't stop
<mhall119> September remember
<mhall119> you'll have to worry about Hurricanes
<crashsystems1> bloody rain, part of my house got flooded
<mhall119> sucks
<DixieDancer> i know...
<DixieDancer> but the rain doesn't show any signs of stopping and it's been raining since sunday
<DixieDancer> and sept is the height of hurricane season, LOL
<Michelle_Qimo> so, everyone coming for a bbq in Sept?
<Michelle_Qimo> I'll make cupcakes.
<mhall119> lol
<DixieDancer> i think i can go
<dantalizing> Michelle_Qimo: we're in
<crashsystems1> cupcakes in mouth and on phone!
<Michelle_Qimo> awesome!
<mhall119> oh, there's a meetup in Tampa, June 6th, for anyone who can make it
<Michelle_Qimo> Can I go ahead and get the BBQ on the calendar then?
<dantalizing> Michelle_Qimo: +1
<Michelle_Qimo> fabulous!
<itnet7> +1
<itnet7> thanks you guys!!
<itnet7> for hosting it
<dantalizing> thought we lost ya itnet7
<mhall119> no problem, looking forward to it
* mhall119 has tiki torches
<itnet7> sorry side convo
<DixieDancer> may i be excused from the rest of the meeting?
<mhall119> no
<crashsystems1> lol
<DixieDancer> sorry... up at 3:30 and can't keep my eyes open
<jamesrfla> lol
<itnet7> adios DixieDancer thanks for coming!!!
<mhall119> g'night DixieDancer
<jamesrfla> you can go DixieDancer there is always a log
<DixieDancer> thanks, y'all! Looking fwd to the party on May 23rd!
<Michelle_Qimo> Night D'Dancer!
<DixieDancer> 'night...
<pak33m> hey all im late
<itnet7> hey there pak33m !!!
<mhall119> hi late
<crashsystems1> android should have battery % in the notification area
<pak33m> is this the meeting
<dantalizing> pak33m: i think we're done
<crashsystems1> the randomness of an ending meeting
<mhall119> we're on topic #4
* Michelle_Qimo waves hello
<itnet7> Well if anyone else doesn't have anything we can officially end the meeting, but can continue socializing!! :-)
</pre>
