{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== In Attendance ====

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:roadmap]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki>

{OK} <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki>

=== Driver Automations update(very brief) ===
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki> talked (briefly about his proposed project and possibly joining up with the Linux Unified Kernel project [1] to port drivers to Linux. 

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki> asked the team about providing some perspective on the overall project and with an upcoming alpha release.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dhillon-v10]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:roadmap]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> talked through the details to assess what exactly the goal of the project. 

=== Ubuntu-FL Spouses group, for wives, girlfriends and significant others ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> introduced the idea to find a way to include those in our personal relationships with the LoCo, when they have no real interest in computers, linux or open source.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> along with some of the other significant others are launching a group for significant others for the following:
* Figure out what *we* can do, as a group, to be a group, but also provide support to the rest of the LoCo.
* Currently kicking around the idea of scrapbooking the loco events.
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> would ideally like to launch the first get-together at Florida Linux Show.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> reminded that the only rules on the SO group is that there is no gender requirement or expectation.

=== family.ubuntu-fl.org ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> said that along with the idea of including more significant others in the group, we're talking about setting up a sub-domain site dedicated to family-oriented blogs and forums family.ubuntu-fl.org which would not be about Ubuntu, but a way to keep in touch as friends and families that are connected by the Ubuntu Florida LoCo. Some place where we can all go, brag about our kiddies, keep in touch as friends, seek advice, etc. Especially now that we've had a change to meet spouses, children, etc, we kind of want to keep up. It also serves as another way to get more of the family involved, instead of just the one member who is a computer nerd

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> wants to keep it locked down, though - to just a members list - to protect the kids, etc.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:mhall119-lakeland]]</nowiki> will work with <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:DanTrevino]]</nowiki> to get the site setup.

=== Proposed wiki changes ===

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> showed us a test [2] of the team subheader as part of the overall wiki redux.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> would like to try and put together a wiki restructuring team, 

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:michelle_qimo_4_kids]]</nowiki> is happy to help with the wiki redux.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> suggested making an outline of what were going to do for all to follow.
 
** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki> would like <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> to be the team lead on the wiki redux.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> suggested reviving a wiki team for the wiki redux.

** <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki> to create a faq for the team wiki. 

=== Advocacy in our Cities and Counties ===
** All talked over ideas about how to advocate Ubuntu:
* Community events
* Fairs and festivals
* Bookstores
* Grassroots group

=== Next Meeting ===
*** Next meeting is scheduled for October 20^th^ at 8 PM.

==== Links ====

       [1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_Unified_Kernel <<BR>>
       [2] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Sandbox/SubHeader/Test

       
