{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IRC Logs from March 17, 2009 meeting: 

<pre>
<itnet7> So besides Egon and Lupine anyone else around for the meeting?
<itnet7> :-)
<crashsystems> lol
<Lupine> :)
<dantalizing> i'm here
<itnet7> lies
* Lupine waves @ dantalizing 
* itnet7 smiles!
<zoopster> I'm here
<itnet7> Oh... welll shoot, if zoopster's here we can start!!!!!
<itnet7> :-P
<zoopster> 26 ppl in the room and only 4 are ready for a meeting?
<itnet7> I think we can give a few more minutes unless anyone has any objections
<zoopster> wait...need a beverage, brb
<itnet7> I can do what I did the last time a quick Roll call
<mhall119> I'm here
<itnet7> [pnp]tomas , ANTRat, Ax3, Catsceo, chad, ianmcorvidae, Projekt2, ropetin, Sindacious, statik, Taladan, zbrown, zzzzzZZZZzzz : We are about to start the meeting
<itnet7> Cool Mhall119 good to see you
<mhall119> aw, thanks
<mhall119> wait, you can see me?
<mhall119> I don't even have a webcam
<itnet7> lol no
<dantalizing> we do
<itnet7> ROFL
<itnet7> Oh
<mhall119> and who's that outside my window?
<mhall119> has the meeting officially begun yet, or can I sneak something in?
<crashsystems> beer retrieved, meeting can begin.
<crashsystems> you can sneak the beverages in mhall119
<mhall119> not beverage related
<crashsystems> :(
<mhall119> my wife is talking to someone in Brandon about doing a build-day for Qimo computers, would anyone here have any interest in participating?
<mhall119> it wouldn't have to be limited to Qimo, of course
<itnet7> If you do it on a weekend count me in
<crashsystems> can you give us a link to that location?
<crashsystems> I've got http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miscellaneous_Symbols open in preparation for the meeting
<mhall119> we don't have a date or location yet, they're tracking down someplace that will work
<zoopster> mhall119: yes...interested. Want to tie it in with a meetup?
<mhall119> that's be great, zoopster
<itnet7> Well, if you do decide it's a weekend, count me in!!!
<mhall119> I don't think the guys my wife is planning this with are part of the Loco, you we might get some more members out of it
<zoopster> how about a may meetup, jaunty release party, qimo build extravaganza?
<mhall119> it'll almost definitely be a weekend
<itnet7> Wow!!!!
<itnet7> that would Rock!!!
<mhall119> woot!
<mhall119> I'll try and get some firm details later in the week
<zoopster> ok
<itnet7> Well I guess zoop got his beverage ready to get rolling?
<zoopster> yep
<crashsystems> what kind?
<itnet7> Well only one of us here can actually ROoll
<itnet7> roll
<itnet7> :-)
<zoopster> well was going for a beer, but opted instead for a milkshake
<itnet7> your not an alchy your a carb addict
<crashsystems> hmm, beershake...
<itnet7> lol
<zoopster> mmmm...yea..carb addict especially since this is my first carbs all day and I worked out hard this morning
<zoopster> gotta get back to my fightin' weight
<zoopster> so TOPIC
<itnet7> So first up on the Agenda is Dantalizing
<crashsystems> lol
<zoopster> and dantalizing is awol?
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<dantalizing> i'd created a drupal test site in order to begin moving to the loco standard of drupal
<dantalizing> loco-dev.ubuntu-fl.orrg
<dantalizing> but i'm out of the drupal game
<dantalizing> evaluating our site, we're purely informational
<dantalizing> IMHO drupal is overkill
<dantalizing> and i have no interest in php
<dantalizing> so, if someone wants to take up the drupal banner, great
<crashsystems> what about WP?
<dantalizing> otherwise, we're sticking to joomla for now and maybe doing wordpress if we can do some auth/workflow stuff
<zoopster> jpugh.org has openid now! and it's wordpress
<dantalizing> so we can take volunteers for drupal or wp
<crashsystems> I seem to remember a WP plugin allowing advanced user permissions btw
<itnet7> I was wanting to try to do the drupal thing, in fact I went and purchased my first book from O'reilley
<itnet7> and I downloaded the Drupal Basic/Advanced videos
<itnet7> but if everyone would rather use WP 
<itnet7> no problem
<dantalizing> well joomla works now
<itnet7> educationcollaboration.org
<dantalizing> the onlything we need from wp
<itnet7> I re-did it in drupal
<dantalizing> is registered users, and a publishing workflow
* crashsystems is hunting for that plugin
<dantalizing> again, we can do everything we need in joomla today
<zoopster> http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/openid/
<dantalizing> and its working
<mhall119> I've been learning Drupal for work
<zoopster> leave it...the only reason to change is a changing standard for Locos?
<mhall119> been planning on moving quinncoincorporated.org over to it in the near future
<dantalizing> the questions are: 1. do we want to move?  2. if so, drupal or wp?
<dantalizing> zoopster: yes
<mhall119> I've not used joombla or WP, so I have no advice there
<dantalizing> and not *all* are doing drupal
<dantalizing> its just the techie-overkill thing to do
<itnet7> joomla is insecure :-P
<dantalizing> IMO
<Lupine> itnet7, would know
<itnet7> YeS
<dantalizing> only on your systems itnet7 :)
<mhall119> joombla is less techie overkill than drupal?
<crashsystems> I've dabbled in Joomla, but have more experience (and prefer) WP.
<dantalizing> quit using '1234' as a password
<itnet7> ROFL
<itnet7> I'm Up 
<mhall119> hey, that's the password on my luggage!
<zoopster> so my vote is leave it alone unless someone wants to learn something different, if so, volunteer to lead the effort
<Lupine> honestly all 3 could be insecure if not setup correctly/securely ;)
<crashsystems> are we voting now, or just talking now?
<[pnp]tomas> drowssap imo
<dantalizing> +1 zoopster
* zoopster changes my password to 12345
* Lupine changes my password to 54321
<mhall119> +1 for keeping what we have if it does what we need
* itnet7 changes my password to 
<zoopster> +1
<crashsystems> because a vote would be better delayed so we can do research, IMHO
<mhall119> hey, did you guys know that if you type your root password into IRC, you just see *s?  Like, mine is *******
<itnet7> yes
<Lupine> yup
<mhall119> you're not fun
<Lupine> same goes for your IRC passwords, nick...etc.
<zoopster> mhall119: that's their root passwords!
<dantalizing> ok, so then we leave joomla ... crashsystems is gonna research wp
<Lupine> +1
<dantalizing> crashsystems: we can bring this up again later if you find something interesting
<zoopster> and what are we researching?
<crashsystems> can someone send me an email of compelling reasons to use Joomla, other than that we are already using it?
<mhall119> +sqrt(-1)
<itnet7> I doubt it
<zoopster> I think that is the only reason crashsystems
<crashsystems> it sucks that much?
<itnet7> no, it doesn't suck
<dantalizing> i think joomla is fine
<dantalizing> its easier than drupal
<dantalizing> and works
<crashsystems> I vaguely recall not thinking much of it
<zoopster> [pnp]tomas: why do you use Joomla?
<boredandblogging> don't think joomla is easier than drupal
<boredandblogging> but then I'm dumb
<dantalizing> joomla sets up more for you out of the box
<dantalizing> 'easier' is not necessarily the right word
<crashsystems> what do we need in a site?
<boredandblogging> true, but trying to figure out how to change things seems complicated
<crashsystems> (reply via email optional)
<crashsystems> boredandblogging: copy n' paste
<dantalizing> crashsystems: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/WebSite
<zoopster> seems that crashsystems has taken on the site review and reconstruction?
* crashsystems has taken on thinking and scheming.
<dantalizing> feel free to edit the charter
<itnet7> One other bonus of using drupal is Launchpad integration
<dantalizing> yes
<dantalizing> that could spur more contributions
<itnet7> I don't know if it works flawless
<dantalizing> currently we've had 1
<clintc_home> gatorlug uses drupal... it's not too hard... but whoever is doing the work should probably use what they want... it has been hard to get help with our site but that may be true regardless of tech used
<zoopster> we'll that seals it for me
* chad has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
<zoopster> what kind of integration with LP?
<itnet7> hold on a sec
<dantalizing> zoopster: you can set it to use launchpad for authentication
<dantalizing> sorry
<dantalizing> authorization
<crashsystems> aka OpenID?
<zoopster> ah...ok so openid auth?
<dantalizing> not just openid
<itnet7> It does both if wanted
<mhall119> I didn't think launchpad was an OpenID provider
<itnet7> or needed
<crashsystems> It can cook bacon too
<dantalizing> so we can say, everyone in lp project 'ubuntu-us-fl' can 'author'
<mhall119> ooooh
<mhall119> nice
<dantalizing> and everyone in lp project 'ubuntu-us-fl-website' can 'publish'
<itnet7> Wow... if it integrates that good it would rock!!
<zoopster> LP is a provider
<dantalizing> or whatever perms we define
<crashsystems> that would indeed be nice. what about a "planet"?
<zoopster> http://drupal.org/project/openid-launchpad
<dantalizing> but like itnet7 said, the lp integration isnt 100%
<dantalizing> i had it enabled on loco-dev for a while
<dantalizing> then locked myself out
<crashsystems> lol
<zoopster> and for mhall119 http://blog.launchpad.net/cool-new-stuff/openid-from-your-launchpad-profile
<dantalizing> probably user error
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuDrupal
<dantalizing> crashsystems: thats part 2
<itnet7> kind of describes the modules
<dantalizing> i have planet set up
<dantalizing> venus actually
<dantalizing> we just need to make a call for blog feeds
<mhall119> you just need RSS?
<dantalizing> so planet.ubuntu-fl.org will be coming soon
<dantalizing> mhall119: atom preferably
<dantalizing> but yes
<mhall119> hmm, I'll check if my current blog engine can do atom, I know it does rss
<itnet7> dantalizing, let me see how  good the drupal / LP integration by next meeting
<dantalizing> k
<itnet7> and if it's worth anything we'll discuss it further, if it sucks we'll stick with what we have
<dantalizing> itnet7: you already have full access to loco-dev
<itnet7> itnet7 = admin in the loco-dev?
<itnet7> perms?
<dantalizing> yes
<itnet7> cool
<itnet7> thanks!
<itnet7> I know you told me, but I got confused
<itnet7> sorry
<itnet7> Do you care what I do with it?
<boredandblogging> Taladan: just cuz you live in South Georgia doesn't mean you are a Floridian! :-P
<crashsystems> I'm not seeing that fined grained permissions plugin I had once found
<dantalizing> itnet7: gnope
<dantalizing> crashsystems: we have time
* Taladan snerks
<Taladan> This is true
<Taladan> but I logged in here after FLS and haven't logged out...been busy
<boredandblogging> ahh
<itnet7> Also if anyone from the team is interested, I have: http://www.masterthedrupalvideos.com/
<itnet7> They are actually good, even though the guy is goofy
<crashsystems> lol
<dantalizing> 40 mins for 1 topic?
<dantalizing> ak
<itnet7> lol
<dantalizing> enxt?
<itnet7> yes
<itnet7> please
<zoopster> crashsystems: http://codex.wordpress.org/Roles_and_Capabilities ?
<dantalizing> martin has thrown out the possibility of a group order for case badges
<dantalizing> do we want to make a loco order?
<crashsystems> are they going extinct?
<dantalizing> crashsystems: we get them cheaper if we order 17000
<itnet7> He gave out the last at UDS
<dantalizing> or whatever
<mhall119> loco branded, or ubuntu branded?
<dantalizing> ubuntu
<Taladan> how much is 17000 case badges?
<Lupine> https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/loco-contacts/2009-March/002904.html
<dantalizing> thx Lupine
<mhall119> would they work for ubuntu derivatives, like kubuntu, xubuntu, or Qimo?
<Lupine> ;)
<dantalizing> mhall119: that would be a different ordre
<itnet7> My daughters E from Zareason had one of them on it
<Lupine> itnet7, awesome!
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
<itnet7> it is the same exact ones
<dantalizing> pics ^^^^
<mhall119> I wouldn't mind a "Powered by Ubuntu" for Qimo computers
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
<dantalizing> pics ^^^^
<crashsystems> just got 22 in today
<itnet7> I say we try to chip in and atleast get 1000 to give away
<Lupine> paypal?
<itnet7> no one has to give  if they don't feel like it
<itnet7> Uhm
<crashsystems> I've got to step afk for a bit, but I'll read the logs. :(
<itnet7> Dantalizing do you want to order them?
<itnet7> Oh..
<dantalizing> gnope
<dantalizing> oh
<dantalizing> i mean
<itnet7> do they take paypal
<dantalizing> i'll chip in
<dantalizing> but i dont wanna be responsible for a loco order
<dantalizing> someone is gonna have to collect our order, send it to martin, who will collect other loco orders, and *if* there is enough, collect money and order them
<itnet7> Well, I will contact him as soon as we see if there is enough of an interest
<Lupine> +1 interest
<itnet7> I will send an e-mail to the mailing list tomorrow
<itnet7> Cool
<dantalizing> 1000 is $230
<dantalizing> k
<itnet7> I or tonight!! even
<Lupine> I'd donate $ for something like that...gotta represent! (and share)
<itnet7> I am thinking what we can do is make a wikipage and if you put your name there as a show of hands you agree to sponsor 23.00
<Lupine> would be a great give away along with an Ubuntu CD ;)
<itnet7> If we get ten people that would be rad
<dantalizing> they've been our most popular thing, i think
<Lupine> good idea
<dantalizing> thing = swag
<Lupine> swag == drool
<itnet7> almost as cool as the tuxes :-P
<zoopster> good idea itnet7 +1
<dantalizing> i'm in for $11.50
<itnet7> $11.50?
<itnet7> :-)
<itnet7> Well I'll create the wiki page so we can start the response
<dantalizing> maybe $5.75
<itnet7> and if there is enough I will e-mail Martin
<itnet7> much easier now that my wiki/openid stuff is fixed!!!
<mhall119> I'd like to commit, but I've replacing a transmission, so my finances are kind of up in the air at the moment
<itnet7> No worries mahll119
<itnet7> No one has to commit to anything unless they want to
<dantalizing> lies
<dantalizing> crashsystems isnt here so we can commit him to $50
<Lupine> agreed
<mhall119> second
<itnet7> Does anyone have a problem with me keeping them for events? I can give some out geographically for when I can't make events
<itnet7> but I am going to order them
<dantalizing> i dont
<Lupine> no
<dantalizing> i think its wise, since you attend all the events
<mhall119> could I get some to put on QuinnCo's donated computers?
* chad (n=cmiller@97.104.37.241) has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
<itnet7> Yes
<itnet7> of course you can
<mhall119> awesome
* NTTP (n=jon@c-71-197-40-188.hsd1.co.comcast.net) has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
<itnet7> We will donate some to you as long as no one has any complaints
<dantalizing> NTTP: you're early!
<NTTP> just here for a bit - will be heading out for some green beer in a few
<dantalizing> i'm heading for some bombing run
<NTTP> dantalizing: The JaxJUG had their meeting tonight too - odd how schedules can conflict...
<dantalizing> yes, hope their speaker was good
<dantalizing> :)
<NTTP> dantalizing: what speaker?
<dantalizing> :)
<itnet7> jville?
<dantalizing> seriously, i dont dislike jaxlug...
<NTTP> Last I heard it sounded like it was going to be more of a 'social'
<dantalizing> i always point people from jax to them on the forums
<NTTP> inet7: yes
<dantalizing> jaxlug dislikes me
<NTTP> No, not even the entire LUG.
<dantalizing> lies
<dantalizing> o
<dantalizing> dfd?
<dantalizing> itnet7:
<dantalizing> ?
<itnet7> dfd?
<itnet7> yes
<NTTP> ONE person on the LUG got a hair up his backside when you posted about the FLC. William hardly counts for the entire LUG.
<zoopster> but jax has one of the most talked about startups in the social media space as of late
<NTTP> zoopster: and that would be?
<dantalizing> document freedom day - http://documentfreedom.org
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> Oh...
<itnet7> yes!!!!
<zoopster> crap...I'll find it NTTP
<dantalizing> zoopster is pimping cliqset hard
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/CaseBadgeOrder
<dantalizing> document formats should be free
<dantalizing> tell your friends
<NTTP> dantalizing: and so should beer
<dantalizing> ^^^ thats all i got
<itnet7> Okay...
<itnet7> I was looking to see about the DFD
<itnet7> and how we could try to get involved
<itnet7> but it seems kind of hard other then "telliing your friends"
<clintc_home> yeah kind of the same with software freedom day
<dantalizing> yeah, 've been kinda lost with what to do
<dantalizing> so... tell your friends
<dantalizing> yay loco events
<NTTP> so what, is this DFD some sort of Doku-Wiki?
<clintc_home> although sun did step up and provide some food last year for SFD in exchange for hearing about opensolaris :)
<zoopster> that's IT - cliqset
<dantalizing> blech
<zoopster> come on...one of the unhappiest places on earth comes cliqset
<dantalizing> oh
<NTTP> nvm, found the About. Pretty meh
<dantalizing> the blech was for opensolaris
<dantalizing> not cliqset
<dantalizing> cliqset will be cool when there are more than 43 people registered
<itnet7> I can't wait to see X-Men Origins: Wolverine
<clintc_home> have to admit that zfs is pretty sexy
<dantalizing> my lvm snapshots are all i need
<NTTP> I took all of the '.txt' extensions of my plain text files - just in case Mickeysoft wanted to sue for the use of 'extensions'
<dantalizing> or i'm just uneducated
<itnet7> 44
<dantalizing> lol
<dantalizing> did you find me as a friend itnet7 ?
<NTTP> nice mediawiki site though
<Lupine> welp, Happy St. Patrick's Day again:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cwd_oBTVd9Y
<clintc_home> itnet7: anyone coming for the programming tourney tomorrow
<Lupine> cya tomorrow
<zoopster> so are we going to talk about release parties?
<mhall119> My wife says she's targetting late May for a build day
<dantalizing> we should
<itnet7> bye lup
<mhall119> would that be too late for a release party?
<dantalizing> no
<zoopster> for me it is...I'll be gone the last 2 weeks of may at all-hands and uds
<itnet7> clintc_home, unfortunately I don't think so 
<itnet7> I would love to come just to check out the Action!!
<itnet7> But I can't get off from work early enough to make it
<dantalizing> itnet7 has obviously never been to a programming contest
<itnet7> obviously
<zoopster> drink a lot of coffee first itnet7
<NTTP> it's comparable to watching grass grow
<itnet7> there's plenty of action at the Virtually cuban
<zoopster> a cinco shot latte and you'll have fun
<dantalizing> clintc_home: crashsystems and i wanted to talk to you about a release party in gainesville tomorrow
<dantalizing> well.. the release party wouldnt be tomorrow.. just the talk
<itnet7> Are you sure he'll have time, he has to ref?
<clintc_home> dantalizing: sounds good.. sometime in april 9.04?
<dantalizing> release is 4/23
<dantalizing> so Mayish
<clintc_home> itnet7: should be time... this problem will not be solved in 10 minutes
<clintc_home> what day is 4/23
<NTTP> dantalizing: I can host a simul-release party up here for anyone interested.
<zoopster> thursday
<dantalizing> nttp... coool... we're doing a 'Drive for 5' release parties in florida
<dantalizing> Orlando and Tampa I think are set
<dantalizing> Gainesville maybe
<dantalizing> we need jax and miami to step up
<zoopster> Tampa is set...need to nail a date
<clintc_home> shouldn't a release party occur as near as possible to the release date... (really asking I don't know)
<dantalizing> maxolasersquad may be doing Tallahassee
<NTTP> Sign me up for Saint Augustine/Jax. I'll start spreading the word
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties
* chad has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
<dantalizing> nttp ^^ zoopster
<zoopster> JackAlope
<itnet7> clintc_home, we are planning five of them so they will have to be staggered
<NTTP> I'll get my server to mirror the repo and get some install media ready. Jigdo rocks.
<dantalizing> we can do some simultaneous
<dantalizing> ustream them
<clintc_home> lol... none of dates are filled in
<clintc_home> and dan's going to all of them
<crashsystems> I'm back.
<dantalizing> +1
<crashsystems> I'd love to chip in for the case badges
<dantalizing> except at the end of may
<crashsystems> I do plan on going to GVille tommorow
* dantalizing still has hopes of UDS sponsorship
<itnet7> ditto brother
<clintc_home> dantalizing: got to run... will see you tomorrow
<zoopster> I keep plugging you...about got the server team to sponsor
<NTTP> I will see what I can scrounge up as far as a location. What date is this set for again?
<itnet7> gnight clintc_home
</pre>
