{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Welcome! ===
Welcome to the Ubuntu LoCo FloridaTeam New Members Page! If you have stumbled across our humble wiki you have made the first step to joining a group of fun, like-minded folks who are both knowledgable and enthusiastic about Ubuntu Linux.

There are certain steps you can take to solidify your membership as well as keep us all in better contact with each other. We know these can be confusing if you haven't done them before, so below you will find the steps needed to complete each process, as well as contact information for the team leader, ChrisRohde in case you have questions.

==== Ubuntu Florida Mailing List ====
* Go to <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-fl|The Florida LoCo Mailing List]]</nowiki> and register
* As always, you can choose to receive emails as they come, or in digest form at the end of the day.

==== Ubuntu Florida Forum ====
* Our forums are located <nowiki>[[http://florida.ubuntuforums.org|Here]]</nowiki>.
* Register, and you are on your way to staying in contact with us, as well as finding help on almost any topic you could ever hope to find.

==== Ubuntu Florida Launchpad Page ====
* Our launchpad page can be located <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida|Here]]</nowiki>
* Register with launchpad, then go back to our page and join group.
* An email will be sent to administrators, letting them know you joined and to add you to <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam|the wiki]]</nowiki>.
* This step is important, as it is the only good way we have to track who is in our group.

==== IRC ====
* The room we generally populate is our personal room, #ubuntu-florida on irc.freenode.net
* To register a nickname, log in to irc.freenode.net and choose a nickname by doing /nick [nickname]
* Then register the nick so people can't steal it, by doing /msg nickserv register [password]
* From then on, when you log in, you can just identify yourself by doing /msg nickserv identify (password)

==== Ubuntu.com ====
* It is strongly recommended that you create an account with Ubuntu.com so you can edit the team wiki when needed, edit other documentation, and create your own personal wiki.
* When you create your wiki, Ubuntu recommends a "wiki name" ie ChrisRohde so you can reference it on other pages simply by typing it as you see it there.
 
==== Need Help? ====
* The IRC room #ubuntu-florida is always full of at least a couple of us, so you should be able to find someone in there to answer questions for you.
* If no one is available there, feel free to find me at <nowiki>[[mailto:christopher.rohde@gmail.com|my email]]</nowiki> or IM me on AIM at Bordy240
