{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
20:00 < itnet7> Okay Meeting time!
20:00 < itnet7> pak33m: ?
20:00 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

START MEETING

20:01 <pak33m> got it
20:01 < itnet7> show of hands please
20:01 < itnet7> o?
20:01 < itnet7> o/
20:01 < kch> hand
20:01 <pak33m> o/
20:01 < erictee> itnet7, where is the link on the web page ?
20:02 < itnet7> http://www.floridalinuxshow.com
20:02 < itnet7> oh, for registration left side
20:02 <pak33m> agenda is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings/
20:02 < itnet7> http://floridalinuxshow.com/index.php?pr=Registration
20:02 <pak33m> itnet7: you want to wait a few?
20:03 < itnet7> Yeah sounds good
20:03 <pak33m> 1 mississippi 2 mississippi
20:03 <*> Quits ->erictee [n=eric@adsl-074-229-034-112.sip.bct.bellsouth.net] [Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)]
20:03 <pak33m> i have to go grab the power cord anyway
20:03 <pak33m> itnet7:  the links were too much for erictee
20:04 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->erictee [n=eric@adsl-074-229-034-112.sip.bct.bellsouth.net]
20:04 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->dhillon-v10 [n=dhillon-@65.33.178.62]
20:04 < itnet7> Lupine dantalizing jamalta_ mhall119 Michelle_Qimo RoAkSoAx roadmap chunkxzor Catsceo zoopster dorgan igorgue
20:04 <pak33m> heya dhillon-v10 
20:04 < dhillon-v10> hi everyone, I made it in time
20:04 < Michelle_Qimo> I'm here
20:04 < mhall119> here
20:04 < Michelle_Qimo> more or less
20:04 < dhillon-v10> <pak33m> hi :)
20:05 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

SHOW OF HANDS

20:05 < itnet7> hey there dhillon-v10 just about to start giving everyone a minute or so to come in
20:05 < mhall119> o/
20:05 < itnet7> ropetin
20:05 < kch> \o/
20:05 < itnet7> :-)
20:05 < mhall119> \0/_
20:06 < itnet7> Well lets go aheade with the first topic then!
20:06 < itnet7> Hopefully more will show when they can
20:07 < itnet7> So the Florida Linux Show is actually shaping up to be a pretty good event
20:07 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

TOPIC I. Florida Linux Show Topical Discussion (Possible Room Sharing, Carpooling, Needs, and Ideas) -- itnet7 2009-10-20 21:18:17

20:07 < itnet7> 250 people have registered in the last two weeks
20:07 <pak33m> wowser
20:07 < mhall119> sweet!
20:07 < itnet7> I am not sure how many people are traveling, but if you live in an area and need a ride, please let us know and we will try and get you in contact with the others
20:08 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 and I have space for one additional from our area, if someone needs a ride.
20:09  pak33m is leaving out of winter park but not sure when
20:09 < Michelle_Qimo> we'll be leaving here at a ridiculous hour in the morning, but the point remains we've got availability.
20:09 < kch> I will be leaving Merrit Island area between 9am and 10am
20:09 < Catsceo> Hello everybody!
20:09 < itnet7> Hey there Catsceo !
20:09 < mhall119> hey Catsceo
20:09 < Catsceo> we're coming to FLS
20:09 <pak33m> heya Catsceo 
20:09 < itnet7> Nice!!!
20:09 < mhall119> woohoo!
20:09 < Catsceo> can't miss that one :P
20:09 <pak33m> did i say wowser
20:09 < itnet7> Does anyone have any good ideas that we can do at our booth?
20:09 < Michelle_Qimo> hey there Catsceo!
20:10 < mhall119> yeah, 2 hour drive, you have no excuse
20:10 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: what sort of ideas?
20:10 < itnet7> I mean we will have Jaunty CD's to give away, Stickers, and some swag
20:10 <pak33m> itnet7: do we want to burn some karmic cds
20:10 < itnet7> Well, like we have been showing Revolution OS at the last couple of shows
20:10 <pak33m> itnet7: maybe make some pretty graphicss
20:11 < mhall119> itnet7: how about having a computer there to sign up new LoCo members?
20:11  dhillon-v10 wants stickers ;)
20:11 < itnet7> I was thinking maybe we can do some cool demos like with wii controllers, gaming, etc.
20:11 < Michelle_Qimo> that'd be cool
20:11 < Michelle_Qimo> do we have time to prepare for this?
20:11 < mhall119> someone should show of Hulu
20:11 < itnet7> mhall119: that would be a good idea, we had been kicking that around in the past
20:11 < itnet7> but we never had enough space
20:11 <pak33m> [IDEA] like mhall119 said but take people through getting keys uploaded and lp accounts created
20:12 < mhall119> I know dantalizing wanted a Net Neutrality partition, I think we could have the signature page at the booth
20:12 < kch> perhaps showing a slide show in open office
20:12 < Michelle_Qimo> petition?
20:12 < itnet7> petition
20:12 < itnet7> yup
20:12 < itnet7> That would be awesome
20:12 < mhall119> pak33m: I was just thinking getting them signed up on the mailing list
20:12 <pak33m> kch: maybe a slide show of whats coming in karmic and a general in ubuntu
20:12  Lupine would love to demo WoP :)
20:12 < Michelle_Qimo> WoP?
20:12 <pak33m> mhall119: that too
20:13 < mhall119> World of Padman?
20:13 < itnet7> I am going to put out a 5 gallon water bottle to take donations for Quinnco's 501c3
20:13 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
20:13 < Lupine> yup, for the gaming....and just to play it some more
20:13 < mhall119> +1
20:13 < itnet7> Yes World of Padman
20:13 < mhall119> I've never played that one
20:13 < itnet7> Oh, Frets on Fire was pretty cool at OSCON
20:13 <pak33m> +1 for the donation bottle
20:13 < mhall119> how about a slide show of LoCo events?
20:14 < mhall119> so people can see how awesomely cool we are
20:14 < itnet7> mhall119: exactly!
20:14 < Michelle_Qimo> We'd be willing to sponsor a raffle, if y'all wanted a Qimo computer to give away.
20:14 < itnet7> well how cool we are not so much
20:14 < Michelle_Qimo> Alternately, we can do it at our booth.
20:14 < itnet7> but that we are extremely active
20:14 < mhall119> if Mr. Scrouge would be okay with that
20:14 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: nice one
20:14 < itnet7> Mr. Scrouge??? 
20:14 < itnet7> lol
20:14 < Michelle_Qimo> Scrooge.
20:14 < itnet7> Well either way?
20:14 < mhall119> whatever, the point was made
20:15  Michelle_Qimo shakes head in shame.
20:15 < kch> I would suggest showing how versatile linux is, not just how techie we can be.
20:15 < Michelle_Qimo> Can we have a sign-up for the spouses group?
20:15 < mhall119> maybe we can have a raffle to donate the computer to a group of their choosing?
20:15 <pak33m> [IDEA] so far we have donation bottle qimo slide shows and sign up
20:15 < mhall119> +1 spouse signup
20:16 < mhall119> kch: how so?
20:16 <pak33m> [IDEA] and qimo computer raffle
20:16 < itnet7> There are going to be installation areas, and we may need some people to help with that
20:17 <pak33m> itnet7: are we going to run the bofs?
20:17 < kch> Many people may be coming to the show to see what linux does. As well as the linux fans there to see new stuff
20:17 <pak33m> itnet7: or at least sign for a bunch?
20:17 < mhall119> kch: I understand, but how would you go about showing that?
20:17 <pak33m> kch: i agree that there should be a user and/or business display
20:17 < itnet7> pak33m: I don't know if it's going to be feasible
20:18 < mhall119> itnet7: that triangle rooms would be good for BoFs
20:18 < itnet7> The BoF sessions
20:18 < itnet7> mhall119: it seems as though some of the speakers are still planning on talking in there
20:18 < mhall119> ok
20:18 < itnet7> I was told that that wasn't going to be the case
20:18 < itnet7> I think they should not have the fourth session
20:18 < itnet7> Too much going on 
20:19 < mhall119> kch: you could demo some stuff in the linux install room I suppose
20:19 < itnet7> and that should/could be the community room
20:19 < kch> mhall119: not everyone plays games. Qimo is great for showing how linux is good for kids. Show open office and thunderbird etc
20:19 < Michelle_Qimo> do you guys need some gear for those?  I've got two or three boxes that are straight out of the box 9.04 installed.
20:20 < itnet7> kch, I semi agree, even the windows users are more than likele using OpenOffice and Thunderbird already
20:20 < Michelle_Qimo> No tinkering with them, etc... just clean, pretty installations
20:20 < itnet7> at least most of the ones I know
20:20 <pak33m> itnet7: brb gotta kid emergency atm
20:20 < itnet7> k
20:21 < itnet7> Maybe we can setup up some "Test Driving" stations
20:21 < kch> itnet7: just thinking of the people curious about linux.
20:21 < Michelle_Qimo> sure thing, seems like a good idea
20:22 < itnet7> kch agreed, but I would go with applications that weren't of relatively high use cross-platform
20:22 < itnet7> Like gnucash
20:22 < mhall119> or gramps
20:22 < kch> I use gnucash for my home accounts
20:23 < itnet7> Yeah, I have used it a bit myself
20:23 < mhall119> show gobby if the internet connection is good
20:23 < mhall119> oh, someone should show screen too
20:23 < mhall119> byobu
20:23 < itnet7> mhall119: techie again
20:23 < mhall119> true
20:24 < itnet7> but we can still demo them
20:24 < itnet7> as they are really freaking cool!!!
20:24 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> show rythmbox
20:24 < itnet7> but what do you all think about the test Drive idea
20:24 < kch> VNC/viagre
20:24 < mhall119> does Kubuntu come with OpenOffice.org or KOffice?
20:24 < itnet7> we can install all of the codecs
20:24 < itnet7> and show movies, backing up cd's, gtkpod
20:24 < itnet7> games
20:24 < itnet7> productivity software
20:25 < itnet7> bambooinvoice
20:25 < itnet7> CRM software
20:25 < itnet7> LAMP
20:25 < mhall119> hulu
20:25 < itnet7> Yeah
20:25 < X-Man> Empathy
20:25 < itnet7> Pidgin as well
20:25 < kch> Yes pidgin is a good one.
20:25 < itnet7> Exaile.... <--- for pak33m because I know he would add it
20:25 < mhall119> itnet7: what's the internet situation supposed to be like?
20:26 < itnet7> Empathy remote assitance is cool
20:26 < itnet7> mhall119: I have only heard that we are going to have wireless, not sure how good it will be I can try and find out
20:26 < mhall119> maybe I should pack a switch and some cables just in case
20:26 < itnet7> or booth will have g1's though with tethering 3g
20:26 < itnet7> just in case
20:26 < itnet7> :-P
20:27 < mhall119> and some speakers
20:27 < mhall119> for your media showings
20:27 < itnet7> which was a lot faster than the wireless at stardust
20:27 < mhall119> the thing with the conferences though, is the number of people trying to get on the wireless almost always overwhelms them
20:28 <*> Quits ->erictee [n=eric@adsl-074-229-034-112.sip.bct.bellsouth.net] [Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)]
20:28 < itnet7> mhall119: that is precisely why tethering through our phones will give us a leg up in case we need it!
20:28 < mhall119> I'm thinking running a mini-lan in the booth would be a good idea
20:28 < Catsceo> someone bring their mifi
20:28 < itnet7> yeah
20:28 < mhall119> someone have keryx ready
20:28 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->erictee [n=eric@adsl-074-229-034-112.sip.bct.bellsouth.net]
20:28 <pak33m> itnet7: i am back
20:28  Michelle_Qimo makes a to-bring list
20:29 < itnet7> So I think we should probably add some of this to Florida Team FLS wiki
20:29 < itnet7> and if anyone wants to contribute ideas
20:29 < itnet7> they acan
20:29 < mhall119> Michelle_Qimo is writing it down dead-tree style
20:29 < itnet7> Nice!!
20:29 < kch> I have a spare linksys 54GL that has bee re-flashed to linux
20:29 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
20:29 < itnet7> kch Sweet!
20:29 < itnet7> pak33m: I mentioned exaile for you
20:29 <pak33m> we can add the to-bring list to  the fls wiki page
20:29 < itnet7> in case we demo/allow others to test drive
20:30 < mhall119> is boredandblogging and linuxcrypt going to be down for this one?
20:30 < Michelle_Qimo> do you want towers, itnet7, for demo purposes?
20:30 < kch> I am happy to lend it to the group for the show.
20:30 <pak33m> itnet7: thanks for getting the good word out as banshee gets closer
20:30 < itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: yes, if they are pretty peppy
20:30 < Catsceo> I might be able to bring one
20:30 < chunkxzor> oops
20:30 < Catsceo> a tower that is
20:30 < chunkxzor> Didn't know we had a meeting
20:30 < Catsceo> with a base ubuntu install
20:31 < itnet7> I can bring my Dell which is pretty beefy for a laptop
20:31 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: I'll see what we've got.  Peppy isn't necessarily an adjective for our inventory.
20:31 < itnet7> sorry chunkxzor ! 
20:31 < Michelle_Qimo> monitors/keyboards/mice/etc?
20:31 < itnet7> Good to have you here, now! you can give us some input if you want!
20:31 < kch> brb someone at the door.
20:31 < Catsceo> all I have are CRTs and apple keyboards, and 1 extra mouse so I don't think I can supply much :P
20:32 < mhall119> we need to consider power availability
20:32 < itnet7> Michelle something that would have no problem with compiz and the hulu client would be cool
20:32 < Michelle_Qimo> I've got keyboards/mice/etc. coming out the wazoo
20:32 < itnet7> Each booth will have two outlets
20:32 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> if you don't mind when my part comes up can you send me a private message, I am multi-tasking so :)
20:32 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: will send mhall119 out to look for stuff
20:32 < itnet7> no proble dhillon-v10 !
20:32 < mhall119> itnet7: so, power strips
20:32 < itnet7> powerstrips == squids
20:33 < mhall119> how many do you have?
20:33 < itnet7> I meant and / or sorry
20:33 < itnet7> I have two each of them extend the power to 5 outlets
20:34 < Michelle_Qimo> I think we've got three or four, if I rummage around
20:34 < itnet7> Nice!
20:34  Michelle_Qimo will spring for extras if need be.
20:34 < itnet7> Michelle_Qimo: lets just make an accurate list
20:34 < Michelle_Qimo> working on one.
20:34 < itnet7> you and mhall119 have done so much
20:34 < Michelle_Qimo> meh
20:34 < dorgan> anyone in here have any google wave invites?
20:34 < itnet7> I will get the extra ones
20:34 < itnet7> dorgan: dantalizing sent me mine
20:34 < mhall119> dorgan: if they do, they're not giving me any
20:35 < itnet7> not sure if he has any left
20:35 < itnet7> and I can't send any out no option to
20:35 < chunkxzor> Oh darn, I should have saved my GV invites for people in here
20:35 < chunkxzor> :(
20:35 < mhall119> -1 chunkxzor
20:35 < itnet7> lol
20:35 < dorgan> well if anyone has one they could send my way dorgan@donaldorgan.com it would be greatly appreciated
20:35 < chunkxzor> my bad, i wasn't thinking right :(
20:35 < itnet7> ok, so we need to check the wiki and try and ad any additional ideas
20:35 < Michelle_Qimo> ok, mhall119 and I will bring various bits and pieces, and I'll confirm via itnet7, wiki, etc. on those towers.
20:35 <pak33m> itnet7: are there things that we didnt bring last time or any other time that we want to bring to the booth
20:35 < itnet7> and list things we have or are bringing with us
20:36 < itnet7> Not sure, No pipe and drapes
20:36 <pak33m> hehe drapes
20:36 < itnet7> so we have to figure a way to put up the banner, yet again
20:36 < mhall119> nothing to hang banners on?
20:36 < Michelle_Qimo> fart
20:36 <pak33m> itnet7: you can wrap me up in the banner ill be right next to the booth
20:37 < mhall119> that's it, we need volunteer banner holders
20:37 < itnet7> Maybe we can put in front of the table your Djing from
20:37 <pak33m> itnet7: we could hang it from my dj rig
20:37 < itnet7> LOL
20:37 < Michelle_Qimo> rofl, pak33m will be *so cute!* in an Ubuntu banner.
20:37 <pak33m> how do we do it
20:37 < itnet7> ?
20:37 <pak33m> ahhh
20:37 < mhall119> qimo's banner is too tall to hang on the front of the table
20:38 < Michelle_Qimo> meh, mhall119, we'll sort it out when we get there.
20:38 < itnet7> we will figure something out, even if we have to put you closer to the team
20:38 < mhall119> itnet7: do you know if our booth backs up against a wall?
20:38 < itnet7> I am not sure about the one he has assigned for you now, but the other team ones do
20:38 < itnet7> so we can switch you
20:38 < itnet7> Okay next topic!
20:38 < Michelle_Qimo> moving on!
20:38 < itnet7> We can talk about this more at the end
20:38 < mhall119> there's more topics?
20:39 <pak33m> oh does anybody have room for me to bunk up on friday night possibly?
20:39 < itnet7> Update the Wiki as soon as you can with your good ideas
20:39 < mhall119> pak33m: depends, how much do you like crashsystems?
20:39 <pak33m> (i could sleep down in the lobby 
20:39 < Michelle_Qimo> it'd be silly for him to come all the way here, tho.
20:40 < mhall119> hey, don't judge them
20:40 < itnet7> pak33m: topic #2?
20:40 < mhall119> their love is real!
20:40 < itnet7> since you have ops
20:40 <pak33m> are we done with the 1st
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> I ain't judging, I'm just sayin..
20:40 < itnet7> sort of
20:40 < itnet7> pretty much
20:40 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

TOPIC II. Florida Team LoCo Bash -- itnet7 2009-10-20 21:18:17

20:40 < mhall119> speaking of unspeakable things happening at my house
20:41 <pak33m> whoa
20:41 < Michelle_Qimo> WHOO HOO PARTY!
20:41 < itnet7> I put up the topic, but Michelle_Qimo would you like to talk about it?
20:41 < itnet7> If not I can
20:41 < Michelle_Qimo> Erm, sure, no problem, itnet7
20:41 < itnet7> I will get you the meet up link 
20:41 < Michelle_Qimo> if you'd be so kind
20:42 < Michelle_Qimo> Alright fellas.  Bring the families on Nov. 7, OK?
20:42 < mhall119> and yes, she does mean all members of the family, whether they hate computers or not
20:42 < mhall119> and kids too
20:42 < Michelle_Qimo> Our house, in Lakeland.  If you need night-before, or night-of arrangements for lodging, let me know
20:42 < mhall119> we have an air mattress
20:42 < mhall119> and camera
20:42 <pak33m> mhall119: hehe will crashsystems be there ;)
20:42 < Michelle_Qimo> stop it
20:42 < Michelle_Qimo> If you can, please bring a side dish
20:42 < mhall119> pak33m: the air mattress isn't comfortable
20:43 < Michelle_Qimo> something that will travel well.  
20:43 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: hey if chaynie cant be here ...
20:43 < mhall119> he'll be gone from it as soon as he can
20:43  Michelle_Qimo throws tomato at mhall119
20:43 < Michelle_Qimo> SIDE DISHES, please.
20:43 < Michelle_Qimo> ahem.
20:43 < mhall119> also, if anyone has any food preferences of objections, please let us know so we can accomodate you
20:43 < Michelle_Qimo> And if you're bringing something edible, please let me know in advance, so I don't wind up with 37 pots of baked beans.
20:44 < mhall119> Michelle_Qimo gets personally offended if someone isn't eating, it's a genetic trait
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> I do.
20:44 <pak33m> please, no aniaml stock in mind thanks
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: I've got you covered
20:44 < mhall119> pak33m: I can honestly say there will be no aniamls 
20:44 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: so do you still want a dj?
20:44 < itnet7> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10712190/
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> I'll have some vegan dishes available for you crazy people.  
20:44 < itnet7> wow sorry took a while
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> pak33m: yes please!
20:44 <pak33m> mhall119 Michelle_Qimo i know i joke
20:44 < Michelle_Qimo> :-)
20:44 < itnet7> so far 22 people have rsvp'd yes
20:45 < Michelle_Qimo> I've got a great veggietales play list
20:45 <pak33m> woohoo
20:45 < Michelle_Qimo> I'm expecting that we're going to hit about 40 people
20:45 < Michelle_Qimo> wait... that we'll HAVE about 40 people
20:45 < Michelle_Qimo> not that we're going to club them with objects
20:45 < mhall119> we'll only hit about 30 of them
20:45 < itnet7> Nice
20:45 <pak33m> holy molley
20:46 < kch> Darn! I thought it was going to be one of those parties ;)
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 and I will be providing meat/beverages/desserts/whatever else I can come up with.
20:46 < mhall119> kch: for 30 lucky people it will be
20:46 <pak33m> kch: you never know
20:46 < Catsceo> am I going to be the youngest there?
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> Catsceo: not if you count my kids...
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> :-)
20:46 <pak33m> and me
20:46 < mhall119> or zoopster's kids
20:46 < Catsceo> I'll be 18 on the 30th so I woun't feel too out of place :P
20:46 < itnet7> were talking physcially pak33m 
20:46 < mhall119> or itnet7's daughter
20:46 < dhillon-v10> <Michelle_Qimo> or if I show up
20:46 < Catsceo> little kids, no one my age, hahaha
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> we're going to have a bunch of kids here, so we're requesting that it be relatively kid-friendly.
20:46 < kch> <- might be the oldest :(
20:46 < Catsceo> :P
20:46 < itnet7> Well Bre is 11
20:46 < Michelle_Qimo> dhillon-v10: you're welcome to come!
20:47 < itnet7> kch: not if zoopster goes
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> It's gonna be BYOB, but we ask that you be moderate.
20:47 < Catsceo> I expect late bday presents :P
20:47 <pak33m> itnet7: oh hehe
20:47 < dhillon-v10> <Michelle_Qimo> I'll try :) my cousin turns 3 that day so I might not be able to come
20:47 < mhall119> yes, it is a family-friendly party
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> dhillon-v10: totally understand
20:47 <pak33m> Catsceo: we can give you some free ubuntu cds
20:47 < itnet7> Catsceo: 18 beatings
20:47 < itnet7> :-)
20:47 < Michelle_Qimo> I'll feed you, Catsceo
20:47 < mhall119> Catsceo: I bought you Ubuntu Ultimate license
20:47 < mhall119> you can thank me later
20:47 < itnet7> ROFL
20:48 < dhillon-v10> lol
20:48 < Catsceo> Gd, this will be bad
20:48 < Michelle_Qimo> So, please, get in touch, let me know what you're bringing, how many are coming... etc.
20:48 < Michelle_Qimo> I think dantalizing's still bringing the whole family, too
20:48 <pak33m> i think im bringing chaynie 
20:48 < itnet7> Maybe we can do some signups on the wiki page as well
20:48 < Michelle_Qimo> BRING YOUR SPOUSES!  It's the first official spouses group meeting, as well.
20:48 < mhall119> meetup.com has a mailing list
20:48 < mhall119> that makes getting updates out to people easier
20:48 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: a spot on the wiki would be great
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> just for food signup, even.
20:49 < itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/FlocoBday09
20:49 < itnet7> we can totally modify it
20:49  Michelle_Qimo makes mhall119 edit that.
20:49 <pak33m> itnet7: i think that page needs to be updated
20:49 < mhall119> dantalizing is working on adding meetup.com style functionality to ubuntu-fl.org in the future
20:49 < itnet7> Dan kind of added that stuff as a place holder
20:49 < dorgan> If you guys are looking to organize some things i would really suggest meetup.com i belong to a bunch of groups on there
20:49 < itnet7> dorgan: we are/do
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> dorgan: itnet7 posted the meetup link earlier. 
20:49 < mhall119> itnet7: LP wouldn't lie
20:49 < Michelle_Qimo> join in!
20:50 < itnet7> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux/calendar/10712190/
20:50 < Michelle_Qimo> additionally, if you should need to email me directly regarding anything specific, please do.
20:50 < itnet7> Nice
20:50 < Michelle_Qimo> for those of you who don't already know: michelle@qimo4kids.com
20:50 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

TOPIC III. Ubuntu's 5th Birthday Today! -- itnet7 2009-10-20 21:18:17

20:50 <pak33m> Michelle_Qimo: sorry 
20:50 < mhall119> also, if anyone has a Wii, bring games and remotes and we can really party
20:50 < Michelle_Qimo> no worries pak
20:51 < itnet7> mhall119: will do
20:51 < Michelle_Qimo> OH, one last thing before I step down, fi you don't mind.
20:51 < Michelle_Qimo> before I forget
20:51 <pak33m> are we ready for the next topic or d o we need more time
20:51 <pak33m> oh nm
20:51 < itnet7> go ahead Michelle_Qimo 
20:51 < mhall119> keep up pak33m
20:52 < Michelle_Qimo> We need to be kind at this shindig, OK?  We've got some guests coming that are high functioning autistic.  Please just keep that in mind, everyone.
20:52 <pak33m> coc in full effect
20:52 < mhall119> pak33m: that's topic 4
20:52 < Michelle_Qimo> and that's all I've got to say about that.
20:52 < itnet7> Today 5 years ago was the day that Warty Warthog was release
20:53 <pak33m> woohoo
20:53 < mhall119> not just at the b-day either, that's a good rule for life
20:53  Michelle_Qimo sings "happy birthday"
20:53 < dhillon-v10> yaaaaaaay
20:53 < mhall119> +5!
20:53 <pak33m> party like its your birthday
20:53  Michelle_Qimo goes to make cake
20:53  mhall119 chants: "Five more years!  Five more years!"
20:53 < itnet7> I just wanted to share with you all a link to Jono's blog in case you wanted to here what Ubuntu's Community Manager had to say 
20:53 < itnet7> http://www.jonobacon.org/2009/10/20/humanity-to-others-five-years-later/
20:53 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

TOPIC IV. New Ubuntu Code of Conduct! -- itnet7 2009-10-20 21:24:17

20:54  mhall119 already read it
20:54 < mhall119> wow pak33m
20:54 < Michelle_Qimo> he's just ahead of his time
20:54 <pak33m> mhall119: kid drama going on
20:54 < itnet7> You don't have to read it now, but I wanted to share it with those that aren't as cool as mhall119 
20:54 < itnet7> :-P
20:54 < mhall119> pak33m: you can turn over ops to someone else 
20:54 < itnet7> I can take ops it's no big deal
20:54 < mhall119> itnet7: akgraner posted it on Facebook
20:55 < mhall119> that's how I found it
20:55 < itnet7> cool
20:55 <pak33m> nah its all over now just sleepy voices
20:55 < kch> I have to leave. Home stuff.
20:55 <pak33m> kch: see ya 
20:55 < Michelle_Qimo> kch: we'll see you soon!
20:55 < kch> 'I am on-line and will read back later onn.
20:55 < itnet7> http://amber.redvoodoo.org/
20:55 < mhall119> pak33m: sleepy voices telling how how they're not sleepy?
20:55 < itnet7> see you soon kch !
20:55 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119 is pak33m hiding in our closet?  
20:55 <pak33m> mhall119: and mad at me for giving an extra pillow to the other
20:55 < itnet7> That is the link for Ambers blog for any of you that might want to check it out
20:56 < mhall119> Michelle_Qimo: under the air mattress
20:56 < itnet7> Last topic
20:56 < itnet7> second to last
20:56 < itnet7> sorry dhillon-v10 
20:56 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: TOPIC V. Trolls and how we should try and handle them as a team. Quiet vs. Banning -- itnet7 2009-10-20 21:24:17
20:56 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> nm :)
20:56 < itnet7> Oh... Yeah
20:56 < itnet7> forgot about this one
20:56 <pak33m> itnet7: ok
20:56 < itnet7> I was going to see if anyone noticed that 
20:56 < mhall119> lol
20:56 < itnet7> mudsplatter has not been bothering anyone
20:56 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: TOPIC VI. Drivers Automation take 2! -- dhillon-v10
20:57 < dhillon-v10> Alright so its time for the take 2 of this project. I have the following setup: A code repository, a mailing list, a bug tracker, and some BASELINE CODE
20:57 <pak33m> itnet7: hehe it was funny
20:57 <pak33m> dhillon-v10: isnt this take 3 
20:57 < itnet7> pak33m: you could have waited
20:57 < mhall119> hey, what happened to topic V?
20:57 < itnet7> but go ahead dhillon-v10 
20:57 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> wait, is it not my turn yet
20:58 < itnet7> not yet I wanted to talk about how we as a team plan to handle trolls
20:58 < Michelle_Qimo> aah, ok, we are going back to that itnet7?
20:58 < dhillon-v10> anyways I'll just go on: so far I have been a bit hesitant to put any code up here because I was having a hard time making a decision: has something similar to this been done before and if yes can I use the source available to get started here.
20:58 < itnet7> and I don't mean to take them and spin them between our hands
20:58 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

TOPIC V. Trolls and how we should try and handle them as a team. Quiet vs. Banning -- itnet7 2009-10-20 21:24:17

20:58 < Michelle_Qimo> rofl
20:58  mhall119 is all confused
20:58 < itnet7> I decided not to ban mudsplatter
20:58 < itnet7> just to quiet himi
20:58  dhillon-v10 is confused as well
20:58 < Michelle_Qimo> dhillon-v10: we're getting the cart before the horse at the moment
20:59 < mhall119> itnet7: is this like a probationary period?
20:59 < itnet7> dhillon-v10: I never asked to change to your topic, just apologized because I had said last topic and forgot about two others
20:59 < itnet7> including yours
20:59 < mhall119> will the quiet be lifted?
20:59 < itnet7> mhall119: I am not sure, that kind of depends on him and all of you
20:59 < itnet7> and what we decide
20:59 < itnet7> He wasn't bad all of the time
20:59 < mhall119> no
20:59 < dorgan> cant you put a time limit on bans?
20:59 < mhall119> he was very helpful at times too
21:00 < Michelle_Qimo> He's actually quite good to me.  
21:00 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> alright, I saw  pak33m has changed the topic to: TOPIC VI. Drivers Automation take 2! -- dhillon-v10 so I thought that was my turn sorry :)
21:00 <pak33m> hes been ok lately (for some reason)
21:00 < itnet7> I heard Michelle_Qimo say something about how some people were saying bad things to Reality
21:00 < mhall119> but other times he's not a very good representative
21:00 < dorgan> I know quite is just a mode but can you put a time limit on a mode?
21:00 < mhall119> itnet7: it wasn't him
21:00 < Michelle_Qimo> itnet7: it actually *wasn't* him
21:00 < itnet7> Well, that is good that it wasn't him
21:00 < Michelle_Qimo> I've also spoken with her briefly today. 
21:01 < itnet7> but we as a team kind of need transparency when things come up like that
21:01 < Michelle_Qimo> yes, I agree
21:01 < itnet7> no one should feel left out here
21:01 < mhall119> absolutely
21:01 < mhall119> also, no one should feel offended or insulted here
21:01 < itnet7> I feel we are like a family, and if anyone is going to come here and be rude we should take up for one another
21:01 <pak33m> itnet7: does he want to enage seriously?
21:02 < itnet7> pak33m: i don't understand
21:02 < Michelle_Qimo> I'm kind of at the 'put-up-or-shut-up' phase with mudsplatter.  
21:02 < itnet7> enage?
21:02 <pak33m> engage
21:02 < itnet7> Oh, 
21:02 < Michelle_Qimo> Can he, and does he, want to be a valueble member here?
21:02  Michelle_Qimo can't spell tonight
21:02 < itnet7> I think he is struggling because he is used to how it was in other channels
21:02 < mhall119> can he?  yes
21:03 < mhall119> he's smart
21:03 < mhall119> whatever else is wrong with him
21:03 < itnet7> I told him that I was going to ask everyone whether or not they want him banned tonight
21:03 <*> Joins[#ubuntu-us-fl] ->ShawnR [n=Shawn@c-66-177-81-37.hsd1.fl.comcast.net]
21:03 <pak33m> he would be another contributing member in south fl
21:03 < mhall119> itnet7: no
21:03 < mhall119> wait, are we voting?
21:04 < itnet7> mhall119: I don't either, but the point is if there aren't any consequences we will not have any control
21:04 < Michelle_Qimo> this is true
21:04 < itnet7> I don't think we need to vote
21:04 < itnet7> We can all agree it's better to give him another chance
21:04 < mhall119> okay, good, because democracy sucks at these kinds of thing
21:04 < itnet7> but
21:04 < itnet7> if he doesn't change
21:04 < itnet7> and we all need to encourage his civility 
21:04 < mhall119> I agree
21:05 < itnet7> then we may need to do something else
21:05 < itnet7> He has a cloak now
21:05 < itnet7> so he is really only using that main account
21:05  mhall119 has no idea what that means
21:05 < Michelle_Qimo> an alt?
21:05 < itnet7> the cloak hides your connection info
21:05 < mhall119> oh
21:05 < Michelle_Qimo> aah
21:06 < itnet7> When you see someone with a cloak they have authenticate to freenode
21:06 < itnet7> so we know when he is here and we do a whois
21:06 < itnet7> we will know it is our loveable mudsplatter
21:07 < itnet7> So lets try to encourage him to change a bit
21:07 < itnet7> I will lift the quiet mode tomorrow morninng
21:07 < itnet7> morning
21:07 < Michelle_Qimo> OK.
21:07 < mhall119> ok
21:07 < itnet7> one more night of Peace :-)
21:07 < Michelle_Qimo> rofl.  Anyone else have thoughts or opinions on the subject?
21:08 < itnet7> The last of my topics is the new code of conduct
21:08 < itnet7> which kind of ties in
21:08 < Catsceo> ban them
21:08 < Catsceo> might be late to the convo, but its best
21:08 < itnet7> Catsceo: we are not going to Ban anyone right of the bat
21:08 < itnet7> off the bat
21:08 < Catsceo> hmm, ok
21:08 < itnet7> sorry this keyboard is wierd
21:08 < mhall119> we've had people who started as trolls in the past, that are now contributing members
21:09 < itnet7> I mean if a bunch of trolls come in I can take control of the room, in fact I found out how to do that the other day on accident *Blushes*
21:09 < itnet7> but we want to try to have solidarity
21:09 < itnet7> and encourage others that this channel is different
21:09 < itnet7> http://princessleia.com/journal/?p=2237
21:10 < itnet7> Here is a link that Liz put up about the changes with the Code of Conduct
21:10 < Michelle_Qimo> anything of note?
21:10 < itnet7> I am sure some of you may have already read it
21:10 < itnet7> there is a link in her blog that shows specific changes I think
21:10 < itnet7> kind of like diff does on two files
21:11 < itnet7> but I haven't had a chance to check it myself yet
21:11 < Michelle_Qimo> it all seems fairly straight-forward
21:11 < itnet7> I just want to encourage everyone to do their best to adhere to the code of conduct
21:12 < itnet7> I try my best to follow it's guidelines
21:12 < itnet7> this doesn't mean that I never have made any mistakes
21:13 < itnet7> There is no reason that we should point out everytime someone doesn't adhere to it
21:13 < itnet7> but we should collectively try and admonish the spirit behind it
21:13 < roadmap> Hey
21:13 < roadmap> meeting?
21:13 < itnet7> Yes roadmap !
21:13 < roadmap> What have I missed; I just got home
21:13 < roadmap> Sorry
21:13 < itnet7> almost over
21:13 < Michelle_Qimo> better late than never, roadmap
21:13 < roadmap> I learned apparently that I can make games
21:13 < Catsceo> everything man
21:14 < itnet7> Nice roadmap !
21:14 < roadmap> and may have gotten a game design job
21:14 < roadmap> like wtf
21:14 <pak33m> roadmap: meeting logs will be up later
21:14 < Michelle_Qimo> cool
21:14 < mhall119> okay, looks like most of the chances to the CoC are to make it less focused on technical aspects and coding
21:14 < itnet7> cool
21:14 < mhall119> and more focused on community
21:14 < mhall119> but the spirit is the same
21:15 < itnet7> dhillon-v10: your up!
21:15 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

TOPIC VI. Drivers Automation take 2! -- dhillon-v10

21:15 < dhillon-v10> alright this is more like take 3 now :)
21:15 < itnet7> ROFL
21:15 <pak33m> mhall119: haha got it that time
21:15 < mhall119> 3rd time's the charm
21:15 < roadmap> Oh yay
21:15 < itnet7> sorry dhillon-v10 
21:15 < roadmap> my favorite topic
21:15 < roadmap> glad I made it
21:15 < dhillon-v10> So far I have been a bit hesitant to put any code up here because I was having a hard time making a decision: has something similar to this been done before and if yes can I use the source available to get started here.
21:15 < Catsceo> I don't even want to know
21:15 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: doesn't matter, post the code
21:16 < dhillon-v10> It turns out yes, we have another project called Jnode that is an operating system in Java. Here's the link to that website :http://www.jnode.org/node/2976
21:16 < mhall119> if there is code you can re-use, you can re-use it even after you post your own
21:16 < itnet7> mhall119: maybe you can advise him on the best license to license it under
21:16 < itnet7> he was mentioning bsd
21:16 < dhillon-v10> To get my current repository, you need hg, and here's the cloning link: hg clone https://ubuntu-drivers.googlecode.com/hg/ ubuntu-drivers 
21:16 < itnet7> dhillon-v10: I never got a chance to ask around
21:16 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> that's one of the other things
21:17 < dhillon-v10> We are going to use some of the code available to use (given to us) from Jnode to get a solid understanding how devices interact with the code and then use that in making our own classifier.
21:17 < dhillon-v10> The website I mentioned above: http://www.jnode.org/node/2976 tells you how to setup git/svn access to Jnode
21:18 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: is this a full on OS?
21:18 < dhillon-v10> The git repository is 259 megabytes. (252 mgs. is just revisions) but I recommend getting that and we are going to use that in conjunction with my repo. to get started with meta-data analysis because we have access to the drivers now
21:18 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> exactly :)
21:19 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> that's what makes the drivers reusable, I have seen the drivers and they REALLY don't look complicated.
21:19 < dhillon-v10> alright so far any thoughts :)
21:20  mhall119 would have to look into Jnode more before I can have thoughts
21:21 < dhillon-v10> so I am going to get started tomorrow on this and yah hopefully we would be able to accomplish our goal
21:22 < dhillon-v10> thanks to mhall119 I know which direction to proceed in now, and that means I can get a task accomplished
21:22 < mhall119> good
21:22 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: are you still going to target Linux drivers?  or are you going to focus on Jnode drivers now?
21:23 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> the data from Jnode drivers tells us how code interacts with the hardware, once I understand it completely I will be able to write a better classifier for Linux drivers
21:24 < mhall119> cool
21:24 < roadmap> oh yay
21:24 < roadmap> this sounds interesting
21:24 < roadmap> I need to learn about jnode
21:24 < itnet7> cool!!!
21:24 < dhillon-v10> alright now that I have some code down: can I get some assistance for other tasks
21:25 < itnet7> did you discuss licensing?
21:25 < roadmap> Licensing? For jnode?
21:25 < roadmap> Wha..?
21:25 < itnet7> no
21:25 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> thanks for bringing that up, guys help me out here
21:25 < roadmap> Oooh
21:25 < itnet7> for his project and the code
21:25 < roadmap> Gpl/Bsd/etc
21:25 < roadmap> gotcha
21:25 < dhillon-v10> the classes I am going to write is it okay for me to use BSD license
21:26 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: what license does Jnode use?
21:26 < roadmap> Why not GPL it?
21:26 < roadmap> Get others involved
21:26 < roadmap> so if they change it they don't run off 
21:26 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> I think they use GPL
21:26 < roadmap> With BSD someone would jack it and sell it later
21:26 < roadmap> or something
21:26 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> alright I'll just use GPL its less complicated
21:27 < roadmap> v2 or v3
21:27 < roadmap> thats your decision
21:27 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: if you're going to use any of their code, you'd have to
21:27 < dhillon-v10> has anyone had a look at my repository yet
21:27 < roadmap> I like v2 but i really dont remember reading v3
21:27 < roadmap> dhillon-v10, url? I missed it.
21:27 < mhall119> dhillon-v10: not since you first posted it
21:27 < roadmap> Swamped over here with work and busyness
21:27 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> yah, I'll use GPL license that's fine 
21:27 < dhillon-v10> <mhall119> I did some updates
21:28 < itnet7> http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ubuntustory/licensing
21:28 < dhillon-v10> alright so I need some thoughts on how to go about designing the classifier: Is it possible to compile a separate driver
21:29 < dhillon-v10> <itnet7> thanks
21:30 < dhillon-v10> <roadmap> http://code.google.com/p/ubuntu-drivers/source/checkout then go to browse 
21:31 < dhillon-v10> so is anyone here want to give any last ideas on the classifier
21:31 < dhillon-v10> *does
21:34 < itnet7> you all can finish the discussion we are going to stop the irc minutes for the meeting, feel free to continue discussing ideas
21:35 < itnet7> Thanks everyone for attending tonight!
21:35  itnet7 is still here but needs to take care of some things quickly
21:35 < dhillon-v10> that's about all I really wanted to say so :)
21:35 < dhillon-v10> thanks for comming out guys
21:35 <pak33m> itnet7: you want to do an open mic or call it quits?
21:36 < itnet7> We went over by 1/2 an hour that's good, but everyone can continue to talk we just wont add anything further to the wiki
21:37 <*> Quits ->erictee [n=eric@adsl-074-229-034-112.sip.bct.bellsouth.net] ["Leaving"]
21:38 < Michelle_Qimo> sorry to abandon ship there.  I haven't eaten since 11 am.  Was hungry.
21:38  dhillon-v10 is still here if any one has any questions regarding the repo.
21:38 <*> pak33m changed the topic of #ubuntu-us-fl to: 

END MEETING

21:38 <pak33m> next meeting nov 3
</pre>
