{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by itnet7 at 00:00 ==
 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> what is o/

 <''''''> hai

 <''''''> michelle is out tonight

 <''''''> X-Man: it's a person raising their hand

 <''''''> andreserl chaynie_work cjohnston crashsystems daker dantalizing danstoner 

 <''''''> im trying to talk roadmap into coming tonight

 <''''''> But I don't think hes gonna go for it

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> himuraken jck77 Klutz n3gbz nightfrog RoAkSoAx ShawnR zoopster 

 <''''''> ChunkxZor: oh, he's still around?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> wtf?

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> nightfrog: uhm... Team meeting

 <''''''> huh?

 <''''''> oh o/

 <''''''> zoopster: meetinig

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> I'm to busy getting stuff together. I'm moving.

 <''''''> Smokin_N_Chokin: Sorry didn't see that in your away status

 <''''''> Wont be in Fl much longer :-\

 <''''''> OH

 <''''''> :-(

 <''''''> Because I hate away message and think they should be outlawed

 <''''''> :-) Smokin_N_Chokin, sorry bud!

 <''''''> itnet7, sup?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> himuraken: we are having a team meeting if you have time 

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> if not no worries

 <''''''> Im here lets roll

 <''''''> XD

 <''''''> Well I'm happy since I have never really liked Florida :-)

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS Welcome Party update -- mhall119

=== UDS Welcome Party update -- mhall119 ===
 <''''''> mhall119: go ahead if you're ready

 <''''''> okay, hopefully by now we all know that we're planning a welcoming party for the participants of uds-n

 <''''''> itnet7: any word on venue?

 <''''''> mhall119: not yet

 <''''''> I will try to give an update soon

 <''''''> okay, we should maybe start thinking of alternatives then

 <''''''> [ACTION] ITnet7 will find out about the Venue, and the team will begin looking into alternative venues, just in case.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' ITnet7 will find out about the Venue, and the team will begin looking into alternative venues, just in case.''
|}

 <''''''> just in case

 <''''''> hey all im here but will be in and out. really sorry for the missing in action-action

 <''''''> no problem pak33m 

 <''''''> nothing at the UDS hotel?

 <''''''> zoopster: that's what we're waiting to hear back on

 <''''''> ok...from Marianna? or who?

 <''''''> zoopster: amber and I were drafting an e-mail, so we can see whether or not we can get one

 <''''''> what is the wwelcoming party about?

 <''''''> andreserl: just a way for us to say "Welcome to Florida"

 <''''''> Unless you can look into it zoopster 

 <''''''> that email is going to? Claire, Marianna, who?

 <''''''> Marianna I believe

 <''''''> mhall119, ok :)

 <''''''> itnet7, yes should be Marianna

 <''''''> what would be best is you lob the request and I'll follow up with the same and enlist Jorge/Jono, etc into it

 <''''''> the current plan is, if we can get a room at the hotel, to just buy a bunch of pizzas and maybe play a movie over a projector

 <''''''> zoopster: cool I will touch base with Amber tonight

 <''''''> ok...Marianna will be doing logistics, but it's Claire's event still so I'll work them...copy me on the email (you can blind me if you want)

 <''''''> We may have to do some creative stuff like pay for the pizza outside and everyone bring in a box

 <''''''> itnet7: yeah, we'll have to work all of that out after we know we can use a room

 <''''''> ok...I can help. I will be around for some of it...depending on when

 <''''''> mhall119: that is the reason we might not be able to get a room

 <''''''> zoopster: awesome, I wasn't sure if you were going or not

 <''''''> I will be there for some of everyday

 <''''''> itnet7: if we can get a room but not bring in pizza, we can arrange some other activity

 <''''''> like popcorn and drinks or something

 <''''''> dont forget about w.u.c/FloridaTeam/UDS-N

* '''''' forgot about that

 <''''''> How many might attend this meeting?

 <''''''> There are alternatives close by as well...not many, but some - keep me in the loop I'll help where I can

 <''''''> Klutz: not sure what you mean? UDS? or the Just the Welcome Party?

 <''''''> that link is empty

 <''''''> Howmany people might attend this?

 <''''''> [LINK] http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/242/detail/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/team/242/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> so far the count is like 14 or so

 <''''''> with no advertising

 <''''''> iirc

 <''''''> right cjohnston 

 <''''''> itnet7: that's just florida team

 <''''''> Yeah, I know

 <''''''> how many usually attend UDS?

 <''''''> ya.. once we get venue and such, we can blow up the adverts

 <''''''> few hundred

 <''''''> 300

 <''''''> so, maybe we'll have about 200 or so

 <''''''> I think we'll be lucky if we get a 1/3 due to jet lag and such

 <''''''> so Sunday evening works for me...I have my boys but can drop and run early that day and be in MCO by early evening

 <''''''> 1/3 of the total

 <''''''> itnet7: that's all I had for that topic

 <''''''> okay

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS Sponsorship Deadline -- mhall119

=== UDS Sponsorship Deadline -- mhall119 ===
 <''''''> [LINK] http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/sponsorship

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/sponsorship''
|}

 <''''''> ]

 <''''''> TOMORROW!

 <''''''> so, Canonical always pays for some community members to attend UDS

 <''''''> you have to apply for it

 <''''''> deadline is, like cjohnston said, tomorrow

 <''''''> so if you need financial assitance to attend UDS, and have contributed to Ubuntu itself or the community, make sure you apply before the

 <''''''> then

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/sponsorship/''
|}

 <''''''> http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-n/sponsorship/

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Open Discussion

=== Open Discussion ===
 <''''''> Where is the current calendar with meetings and IRC meetups etc? I got busy and off track.

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings

 <''''''> Just a reminder, Launchpad lets you enter your location so they can plot members on a map of the state, if you don't have your general location in there, please add it

 <''''''> it helps new members see if there are people near them

 <''''''> thanks itnet7 

 <''''''> [LINK]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings''
|}

 <''''''> is everyone who will be at UDS signed up for it on launchpad?

 <''''''> himuraken: no problem!

 <''''''> *doublechecks*

* '''''' is signed up

 <''''''> [LINK]https://edge.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-n

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''https://edge.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-n''
|}

 <''''''> I am...

 <''''''> Did anyone find out any of the pricing of weekly condos in the area?

 <''''''> Not sure if anyone was going to check on it

 <''''''> maxo was looking into that

 <''''''> dantalizing needs to add another guest for the event on Sunday...I'm sure dantalizing jr will be hitching a ride

 <''''''> someone has to Hack for papa

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> mhall119: sweet, I will check with him

 <''''''> Now that all of the UDS stuff is up, should we start filling in local info including restaurants and points of interest?

 <''''''> itnet7: filling it in where?

 <''''''> good idea

 <''''''> how far away is down town disney from the hotel?

 <''''''> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-M/LocalParticipation well something similar to this

 <''''''> We can create the Local Participation page for when they do the Root wiki, or we can help create a root wiki

 <''''''> I guess we can start using adding them to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/UDS-N

 <''''''> mhall119: What Hotel?

 <''''''> Klutz: the hotel they're holding UDS at, Calibre or something 

 <''''''> Royal Caribe

 <''''''> that one

 <''''''> mhall119: not far

 <''''''> relatively speaking

 <''''''> they have a nice movie theatre there

 <''''''> and the candy cauldron

 <''''''> the hotel is east of i4 past the marriot world center

 <''''''> no close starbucks

 <''''''> need jimmy to commit to dj'ing on Sunday

 <''''''> =1

 <''''''> +1 even

 <''''''> where has that slacker pak33m been?

 <''''''> I'll be he claims he's been working

 <''''''> bet even

 <''''''> he poked his head in earlier

 <''''''> no other topics itnet7?

 <''''''> not reaaly

 <''''''> anyone else have anything?

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> ok, meeting adjourned

 <''''''> I would say about 5 miles to Down Town Disney if you come in 536...

 <''''''> yeah, real short drive

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 00:34 ==
=== People Present ===
* X-Man

* mhall119

* itnet7

* ChunkxZor

* andreserl

* n3gbz

* nightfrog

* zoopster

* cjohnston

* Smokin_N_Chokin

* himuraken

* pak33m

* Klutz

=== Actions Recorded ===
* ITnet7 will find out about the Venue, and the team will begin looking into alternative venues, just in case.
