{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Summary ====
This month has been pretty exciting for the Florida Team. 

* Tampa held their meet-up on March 7th.
* Florida Team attended and exhibited at the Florida Linux Show on March 9th.
* Preparations for Jaunty Release have begun!

==== Full Report ====

Tampa area held there monthly meeting, and had a few new faces show up. This meeting was held at <nowiki>[[http://www.jchristophers.com/locations-results.php?searchzip=33618|J. Christopher's]]</nowiki>. 

Florida Linux Show was a success! We had approximately 10 Members attend. We distributed tons of CD's and stickers and smoke with attendee's about their experiences and encouraged the use of Ubuntu to everyone!

On March 17th the team discussed how were going to handle Jaunty Release parties. We are planning on holding at least 5 of them all over the state. Gainesville, Jacksonville, Miami, Orlando, and Rockledge/Melbourne. Many ideas were discussed including the use of <nowiki>[[http://knowledge76.com/index.php/76er_Program|System76 for flyers and banner program]]</nowiki>.

===== Projects =====
* Participation of Document Freedom Day March 25th.
* Jaunty release parties planning and scheduling.
* Barcamp Orlando April 18, 2009, Presentation possibilities and raise awareness for Florida Team and Ubuntu.
* Preparation for Florida Linux Show 2009 in Orlando. 

===== Meetings =====
March 3, 2009 Meeting was held with a decent attendance. 

March 17, 2009 held see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Minutes/20090317Formal|minutes here]]</nowiki>.

===== Florida Team Membership =====
184 Active Members, 10 Inactives.

===== Recently Approved Members =====
*** Rick Conard (dranockcir)
*** Marikawn (jimbout527)
*** Budmaester (hheinbaugh)
*** Guerre (guerres)
*** Joyce Leonard (joyceleo26)

===== Team Owner =====
  <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7|Chris Crisafulli]]</nowiki>
