{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
<html>
<body>
Meeting started by itnet7 at 19:00
<table border=1>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-us-fl.log.20100406_1900.html#0'>19:03:14</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Vote to move from using two mailing lists to one mailing lists. -- chrisjohnston 2010-03-13 21:05:41 </th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-us-fl.log.20100406_1900.html#1'>19:04:08</a></td>
<td>ACTION</td>

<td>itnet7</td>
<td> Merge the lists and go down to just the standard Non-LP list</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-us-fl.log.20100406_1900.html#2'>19:16:54</a></td>
<td>AGREED</td>
<td>itnet7</td>
<td> Govatent and itnet7 will merge the members for Launchpad ML to the standard list and update the LP page to point only to the Standard List</td>

</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-us-fl.log.20100406_1900.html#3'>19:20:04</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Vote Deadline has passed, Lets Discuss switching the meeting day over to Thursdays (Hopefully beginning in May) -- itnet7 2010-04-04 21:54:33</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	
<td><a href='ubuntu-us-fl.log.20100406_1900.html#4'>19:27:13</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  #</th>
</tr>
<tr>
	

<td><a href='ubuntu-us-fl.log.20100406_1900.html#5'>19:27:23</a></td>
<th colspan=3>Topic:  Lucid Release Party reminder/followup -- dantrevino 2010-03-22 10:31:04 </th>
</tr>
</table>
Meeting ended at 19:44.

<br/>
<br/>
People Present:<br/>
<ol>
<li>itnet7</li>

<li>himuraken</li>

<li>sydogg</li>

<li>govatent</li>

<li>MichelleQ</li>

<li>X-Man</li>

<li>mhall119</li>

<li>crashsystems</li>

<li>cjohnston</li>

<li>habanero_joe</li>

<li>crashsystems1</li>

<li>erictee</li>

<li>ubuntu-fl`</li>

</body></html>

</pre>

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-us-fl
[19:00:18] <itnet7> Hey there Everyone!
[19:00:30] <itnet7> Can we please get a quick show of hands!
[19:00:36] <himuraken> o/
[19:00:41] <itnet7> o/
[19:00:42] <sydogg> Hey itnet7!
[19:00:49] <itnet7> Hey there sydogg !
[19:00:50] <govatent> i actually will be on and off.
[19:00:56] <itnet7> no problem govatent !
[19:01:11] <itnet7> it shouldn't be a very long meeting not a very long agenda
[19:02:20] <itnet7> crashsystems: dantalizing igorgue MichelleQ mhall119 pak33m RoAkSoAx
[19:02:38] <MichelleQ> o/
[19:02:53] <itnet7> Hey there MichelleQ !
[19:03:00] <X-Man> o/
[19:03:02] <mhall119> o/
[19:03:03] <MichelleQ> hey there
[19:03:06] <itnet7> :-)
[19:03:14] <itnet7> [TOPIC] Vote to move from using two mailing lists to one mailing lists. -- chrisjohnston 2010-03-13 21:05:41
[19:03:33] <MichelleQ> sounds like a plan to me
[19:03:43] <crashsystems> how do we vote?
[19:03:51] <himuraken> Being that I didnt know of a second mailing list I will say this is a good thing :-)
[19:04:03] <MichelleQ> my inbox would prefer it
[19:04:08] <itnet7> [ACTION] Merge the lists and go down to just the standard Non-LP list
[19:04:16] <itnet7> any Volunteers?
[19:04:20] <govatent> 0/
[19:04:22] <mhall119> why the non-lp list?
[19:04:46] <itnet7> cjohnston: do you have those links that you shared with me
[19:05:02] <cjohnston> ummm
[19:05:04] <itnet7> It was recommended a while back to no longer use LP
[19:05:20] <mhall119> is there a reason for that?
[19:05:30] <cjohnston> I might could find them.. but i dont rememebr them
[19:05:34] <itnet7> Because it is really no longer supported
[19:05:39] <itnet7> by the LP team
[19:05:40] <mhall119> oh
[19:05:49] <itnet7> That and
[19:05:51] <cjohnston> mhall119: Ubuntu does not want Ubuntu things using LP
[19:06:00] <itnet7> non LP members couldn't join just the ML
[19:06:20] <mhall119> are non-LP members technically LoCo members? I thought LP was the authoritative source for membership
[19:06:37] <itnet7> mhall119: apparently there are a lot of non-LP members
[19:06:41] <mhall119> huh
[19:06:43] <itnet7> well not ubuntu members
[19:06:44] <X-Man> Dumb question? what is LP
[19:06:49] <cjohnston> launchpad
[19:06:50] <itnet7> Launch Pad
[19:07:13] <X-Man> thanks
[19:07:26] <itnet7> A lot of people that hang out in IRC haven't really joined LP
[19:07:38] <mhall119> ok, let me rephrase my question then, why not encourange LoCo members to join Launchpad?
[19:07:56] <itnet7> there are supposedly even some Team Contacts that don't have LP accounts (Granted they aren't approved teams)
[19:08:03] <mhall119> especially with loco.ubuntu.com using LP user data
[19:08:21] <itnet7> there are bugs that have been reported covering those issues
[19:08:29] <mhall119> you can't register that you're attending an event on loco.ubuntu.com without a LaunchPad ID
[19:08:56] <mhall119> in the future we plan on adding meeting management features to loco.u.c, which would again require launchpad accounts
[19:09:31] <cjohnston> Sticking to the ML issue only.. Ubuntu does not want Ubuntu teams using LP MLs.
[19:09:35] <itnet7> I agree that anyone that considers themself involved with Ubuntu should get an LP account, and especially if they are part of a LoCo in any capacity
[19:09:39] <mhall119> cjohnston: really?
[19:09:42] <cjohnston> Yes.
[19:09:53] <mhall119> cjohnston: where did you hear that?
[19:09:58] <cjohnston> If you go to setup a ML on LP, I am told it will tell you that.
[19:10:03] <cjohnston> #launchpad
[19:10:07] <cjohnston> plus a couple other people
[19:10:18] <MichelleQ> well, I suppose the vote is a moot point, then.
[19:10:19] <mhall119> I'll have to investigate, because that puts it at odds with our loco.u.c plans
[19:10:36] <mhall119> which was going to use launchpad mailing lists
[19:10:38] <itnet7> that was what I had added as a comment to the agenda
[19:11:17] <itnet7> I can find you the links I was referring to. In my opinion only, I feel the spam control is much better on LP and I like the administation better
[19:11:27] <itnet7> but when I found that link I just mentioned
[19:11:43] <itnet7> it is clear that the LP Dev do not really want us to use it any longer
[19:11:45] <mhall119> itnet7: I'll bring it up with dholbach and the others
[19:12:06] <mhall119> can we assign an external ML to our LP team?
[19:12:09] <itnet7> mhall119: can you please read the agenda
[19:12:26] <itnet7> We did discuss this with dholbach in person, dantalizing and I did
[19:12:33] <itnet7> at UDS in Mountainview
[19:12:43] <mhall119> I meant for loco.u.c stuff, sorry
[19:12:50] <itnet7> Oh, I see what you mean
[19:13:32] <itnet7> I think the loco.u.c stuff should still require LP
[19:13:43] <cjohnston> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MailingLists#Requesting%20a%20list
[19:13:47] <cjohnston> link
[19:13:48] <mhall119> ah, we can change the "contact email address" for the LP team, can we set that to the MailMan list?
[19:14:21] <cjohnston> itnet7: is that the one you wanted?
[19:14:42] <cjohnston> Here is the convo from #launchpad http://paste.ubuntu.com/396686/
[19:14:47] <itnet7> cjohnston: that kind of hits it.
[19:15:44] <itnet7> I found a really good link that I will share later
[19:15:49] <mhall119> thanks cjohnston, itnet7
[19:15:59] <itnet7> so Govatent and I will work on merging the list
[19:16:07] <itnet7> cool govatent?
[19:16:20] <govatent> yup. teach me what to do and ill help out
[19:16:30] <govatent> i need to know how to work with list
[19:16:35] <govatent> the*
[19:16:54] <itnet7> [AGREED] Govatent and itnet7 will merge the members for Launchpad ML to the standard list and update the LP page to point only to the Standard List
[19:17:14] <mhall119> itnet7: will you set the other ML as the LP team contact address as well?
[19:17:25] <cjohnston> Should we attempt to have this complete by maybe the end of the month?
[19:18:06] <himuraken> Welcome habanero_joe
[19:18:20] <habanero_joe> hi everyone
[19:18:24] <itnet7> cjohnston: We'll see, govatent has no idea about moderation of the ML, and I have a lot going on
[19:18:35] <itnet7> It should be doable
[19:18:47] <cjohnston> ok
[19:19:00] <itnet7> dantalizing: ping
[19:19:58] <itnet7> We will skip the second agenda item for now and come back to it next in case dantalizing wants to field it
[19:20:04] <itnet7> [TOPIC] Vote Deadline has passed, Lets Discuss switching the meeting day over to Thursdays (Hopefully beginning in May) -- itnet7 2010-04-04 21:54:33
[19:20:16] <itnet7> Okay, so we put a poll up on ubuntu-fl.org
[19:20:39] <itnet7> and even though it was determined that we should switch days, I want to make sure that everyone is comfortable with it
[19:20:47] <govatent> i am cool with it
[19:20:50] <cjohnston> +1
[19:20:51] <MichelleQ> I'm good
[19:20:56] <itnet7> mhall119: ?
[19:21:10] <cjohnston> MichelleQ says hes good.. lol :-P
[19:21:14] <crashsystems1> any day works for me
[19:21:14] <himuraken> What was the result of the poll?
[19:21:15] <mhall119> it doesn't go without saying that if she's good, I'm good?
[19:21:21] <MichelleQ> he's good
[19:21:25] <mhall119> lol
[19:21:25] <himuraken> lol
[19:21:27] <govatent> good
[19:21:28] <cjohnston> himuraken: Thursday
[19:21:42] <erictee> i'm good.
[19:21:47] <itnet7> himuraken: the actual poll was takend down, not deleted, but taken down
[19:21:57] <itnet7> Thursday had 8 votes
[19:21:57] <MichelleQ> can we consider adjusting the time an hour later?
[19:22:02] <itnet7> Monday had 5 votes
[19:22:05] <cjohnston> -1
[19:22:14] <himuraken> Yeah I thought Tuesday was the clear leader. Anyways, I dont mind Thursday.
[19:22:17] <itnet7> does that mean 4 votes cjohnston ?
[19:22:23] <govatent> i kind of did not vote. um.... *hides behind his computer*
[19:22:26] <X-Man> Thursday please
[19:22:28] <itnet7> lol
[19:22:38] <cjohnston> I am -1 changing time to 2100
[19:22:59] <govatent> is the time changing as well?
[19:23:06] <cjohnston> govatent: it was just brought up
[19:23:11] <himuraken> here we go again :-)
[19:23:15] <habanero_joe> So Thursdays @ 2100?
[19:23:19] <itnet7> We don't have to change the time
[19:23:23] <cjohnston> thursday at 2000
[19:23:34] <X-Man> I'm good either way
[19:23:54] <itnet7> We can leave it that way
[19:23:56] <govatent> 2100 would be nice
[19:24:01] <cjohnston> -1 again
[19:24:04] <cjohnston> :-P
[19:24:10] <govatent> i don't mind either way
[19:24:12] <itnet7> cjohnston: we could take it another poll
[19:24:14] <itnet7> :-P
[19:24:18] <itnet7> anyways
[19:24:22] <govatent> i tend to be stuck at school most nights. like right now
[19:24:31] <mhall119> cjohnston: you don't have normal sleep patterns anyway
[19:24:33] <cjohnston> 2100 is past my bedtime
[19:24:35] <MichelleQ> sorry, opened a hornet's nest, apparently.
[19:24:36] <govatent> mhall119, lmao
[19:24:45] <itnet7> I only wanted the meeting to be a little later, because some Thursday nights I teach the Linux SIG
[19:25:00] <govatent> ah
[19:25:02] <itnet7> but either way, I can just make sure that my phone is charged!
[19:25:11] <cjohnston> I guess i can go with 2100
[19:25:14] <govatent> well later on the same day is fine
[19:25:31] <mhall119> how about Tuesdays?
[19:25:35] <itnet7> Lets leave it at the standard time for now
[19:25:41] <cjohnston> no tuesday
[19:25:43] <mhall119> :P
[19:25:46] <itnet7> lol
[19:26:10] <cjohnston> I vote Wednesfriday
[19:26:12] <MichelleQ> oh sheesh. Thursdays at 8p? Same time different day?
[19:26:12] <itnet7> and if everyone thinks it works after the first couple of meetings it can stay the standard meeting time
[19:26:12] <cjohnston> for meetings
[19:26:18] <cjohnston> MichelleQ: yes
[19:26:30] <himuraken> Thurs at 8 good.
[19:26:31] * MichelleQ goes to argue with children about bedtime
[19:26:45] <cjohnston> MichelleQ: I'll go to bed for you..
[19:27:02] <govatent> ill wait for you guys to pick something
[19:27:11] <govatent> !cookie ubuntu-us-fl
[19:27:11] * ubuntu-fl` gives ubuntu-us-fl a cookie.
[19:27:13] <itnet7> [TOPIC] #
[19:27:19] <habanero_joe> Thurs@2000 is fine
[19:27:23] <itnet7> [TOPIC] Lucid Release Party reminder/followup -- dantrevino 2010-03-22 10:31:04
[19:27:34] <itnet7> Lucid Release Parties!!!!!!
[19:27:53] <itnet7> So there have been at least 1 or 2 that I know of that are scheduled
[19:27:57] <mhall119> everyone's meeting at dantalizing's house, right?
[19:28:04] <itnet7> +1
[19:28:11] <MichelleQ> don't think we're going to be able to host one here for now
[19:28:19] <MichelleQ> as much as I want to
[19:28:21] <govatent> party at dantalizing's?
[19:28:29] <MichelleQ> I vote for dantalizing's
[19:28:32] <mhall119> govatent: unless he shows up and says otherwise ;)
[19:28:35] <cjohnston> im good with that
[19:28:37] <govatent> lol
[19:28:42] <MichelleQ> roadtrip!
[19:28:44] <cjohnston> ill go make the event on locodir
[19:28:44] <govatent> we might want to wait for him
[19:28:46] <cjohnston> hehe
[19:28:49] <cjohnston> govatent: nah
[19:28:56] <mhall119> govatent: where's the fun in that?
[19:28:59] <itnet7> I just wanted to remind everyone that Even if you get a couple of people together and go to dinner that is considered celebrating the release
[19:29:10] <itnet7> or could be considered
[19:29:17] <govatent> itnet7, i would like to do one here then if i can do something simple
[19:29:30] <cjohnston> We had an event last thursday
[19:29:33] <itnet7> govatent: you mentioned possibly being up this way around that time
[19:29:41] <mhall119> itnet7: since there are 4 Ubuntu users in my household, can anything we do be considered a LoCo event? cjohnston was wonding
[19:29:45] <mhall119> wondering even
[19:29:46] <itnet7> cjohnston: ?
[19:29:49] <govatent> i am not actually sure yet cause it seems my friend might not be in town
[19:29:51] <MichelleQ> bwahahaah
[19:29:51] <itnet7> mhall119: sure!
[19:29:53] <itnet7> :-)
[19:29:58] <govatent> so i am not 100 percent sure where ill be
[19:30:02] <itnet7> govatent: that's cool
[19:30:05] <govatent> but i could drive up for a release party
[19:30:08] <cjohnston> We met at chuckee cheese for an ubuntu party
[19:30:08] <itnet7> have you ever met erictee ?
[19:30:13] <itnet7> and RoAkSoAx ?
[19:30:18] <govatent> cjohnston, that's great for the kids
[19:30:20] <cjohnston> or an ubirthday party?
[19:30:22] <mhall119> hey, ChuckECheese release party!
[19:30:22] <govatent> i would have a blast there
[19:30:32] <itnet7> govatent: ^^ ^^
[19:30:35] <cjohnston> govatent: ill let you watch my kids next tiem
[19:30:36] <govatent> ubuntu and a mouse
[19:30:41] * MichelleQ schedules the Loco birthday party for Chuck E Cheese
[19:30:49] <govatent> lol
[19:31:00] <cjohnston> mhall119: dont forget to put that in the next months team report
[19:31:01] <cjohnston> heh
[19:31:02] <itnet7> MichelleQ: if you actually did that I would meet you all in Orlando!
[19:31:08] <mhall119> wait, CeC doesn't have wifi, fail
[19:31:16] <MichelleQ> They might
[19:31:19] <govatent> we can tether on dantalizing N1
[19:31:23] <itnet7> tethering
[19:31:23] <mhall119> +1
[19:31:26] <cjohnston> yay
[19:31:55] <govatent> so we have signed dantalizing up for hosting a party and letting us tether on his g1 :p
[19:32:02] <govatent> n1
[19:32:16] <cjohnston> hehe
[19:32:17] <govatent> wow ill shut up. continue meeting
[19:32:19] <MichelleQ> whateverletterofthealphabet1
[19:32:27] <cjohnston> lol
[19:32:30] <itnet7> So I would just like to encourage you to try and do something in Honor of the Release, and Blog about it, and Take some Pictures so we can encourage/inspire other LoCo's
[19:32:52] <itnet7> List it in the LoCo Directory under events!!
[19:32:53] <himuraken> habanero_joe, want to get together for a smaller party?
[19:33:10] <habanero_joe> yep. rp. beer. bar.
[19:33:11] <govatent> itnet7, do we have a count of active guys in esfl?
[19:33:21] <himuraken> habanero_joe, nice!
[19:33:41] <itnet7> govatent: to tell you the truth I am not sure
[19:34:00] <itnet7> you're talking about the group that was at FLS right?
[19:34:18] <govatent> anyone in general
[19:34:30] <govatent> to get an idea for how many are in my neck of the woods
[19:34:54] <mhall119> does everyone have their location added to the LP map?
[19:35:23] <MichelleQ> erm
[19:35:36] <MichelleQ> I don't know if I do or not
[19:36:21] <mhall119> https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida/+map
[19:37:11] <govatent> can i change my lp name?
[19:37:19] <cjohnston> do you have any ppa's?
[19:37:20] <govatent> i would like to be shown as my irc name
[19:37:47] <mhall119> if you don't have a PPA, I think you can change it
[19:37:57] <cjohnston> yes..
[19:38:06] <sydogg> I'm on the map. :)
[19:38:11] <itnet7> give me sec
[19:38:13] <itnet7> brb
[19:38:14] <govatent> i found it
[19:38:39] <himuraken> I am on map as well.
[19:38:51] <MichelleQ> hhm, no I'm not on there. But I suppose most everyone knows that you can find me round about where mhall119 is.
[19:39:25] <govatent> lol
[19:39:31] <govatent> you guys live so far away
[19:39:52] <govatent> how do you make it from one room of the house to the other to visit each other during the day :p
[19:40:12] <MichelleQ> very carefully, with lots of lego-stepping-onage
[19:40:16] <itnet7> MichelleQ: that was what I was thinking when you said that
[19:40:34] <MichelleQ> whowhat?
[19:40:36] <MichelleQ> I'm tired.
[19:40:45] <govatent> the floor is lava
[19:41:35] <itnet7> that if mhall119 was on the map, we would know where to find ya!
[19:41:38] <X-Man> good night everyone, I have to go.
[19:41:46] <habanero_joe> x-man: nite
[19:41:49] <itnet7> gnight X-Man thanks for attending the meeting!
[19:42:07] <MichelleQ> night, x
[19:42:08] <MichelleQ> oh, well then
[19:42:32] <itnet7> Anyone have any news they want to share?
[19:42:41] <habanero_joe> I am now on the map. lol
[19:42:46] <itnet7> Everyone knows that we were approved, right?
[19:42:51] <itnet7> Nice habanero_joe
[19:42:51] <cjohnston> yay!
[19:42:53] <habanero_joe> Awesome
[19:43:05] <sydogg> Cool!
[19:43:14] <itnet7> I mean re-approved
[19:43:19] <MichelleQ> yay
[19:43:20] <cjohnston> yay to that too
[19:43:21] <MichelleQ> :D
[19:43:27] <itnet7> Coolbeans!
[19:43:55] <itnet7> Well I guess we'll close the meeting :-)
[19:44:05] <itnet7> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
