{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by itnet7 at 00:00 ==
 <''''''> Okay everyone, tonights format is going to be slightly different, we no longer have the standard Mootbot, we are going to use Mootbot-UK which adds some great funcitionality

 <''''''> Show of hands?

 <''''''> o/

 <''''''> :O

 <''''''> Catsceo ChunkxZor cjohnston crashsystems dantalizing fixer igorgue jamalta MichelleQ pak33m RoAkSoAx ropetin Swian meeting time anyone around?

 <''''''> hey there sontek !

 <''''''> hmm?

 <''''''> oh wow...

 <''''''> meeting starts early for me now! haha

* '''''' thinks maybe this Thursday thing wasn't a great idea

 <''''''> thx for pinging me itnet7 

 <''''''> keep forgetting about thursday

 <''''''> sorry dantalizing !

 <''''''> :) I'm excited about the meeting! 

 <''''''> mono lover

 <''''''> sontek: Welcome aboard, glad to have you here!

 <''''''> ;)

* '''''' is here

 <''''''> woohoo!

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Team Minutes Role 

=== Team Minutes Role ===
 <''''''> MarkDude: about 6 hours

 <''''''> I wanted to try and see if I can get someone to help out a bit with some of the administrative stuff, pak33m used to do it

 <''''''> oh, wait.  Are we having a meeting?

 <''''''> Hello

 <''''''> but it seems as though he doesn't have enough time on his hands

 <''''''> i volunteer pak33m 

 <''''''> MichelleQ: yes

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: hey there

 <''''''> ooof

 <''''''> sorry, I'm here now

 <''''''> itnet7: with mootbot, how important is taking down meeting minutes as well?

 <''''''> No problem, Once we get the calendar strgiht we may be able to automate sending out notices for meetings again

 <''''''> We have Mootbot-UK now?

 <''''''> Minutes should be generated for us now

 <''''''> mhall119: the purpose behind switching Mootbot-UK was to help make it easier

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: they still need to be added to the wiki

 <''''''> Ya. 

 <''''''> what happened to the non-UK mootbot?

 <''''''> yea we should still post and send them

 <''''''> and what's different, the accent?

 <''''''> I banned, then kicked it

 <''''''> mhall119: Uk generated minute

 <''''''> so mootbot is moot?

 <''''''> mhall119: it outputs logs in MOIN syntax as well as the standard ways

 <''''''> And a few other things. And hopefully this cycle it will get even better!

 <''''''> among other great enhancements

 <''''''> itnet7: ah, +1

 <''''''> moin syntax -1

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: is this another of your projects?

 <''''''> [LINK]http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/Mootbot-UKHowTo

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/Meetings/Mootbot-UKHowTo''
|}

 <''''''> I choose not to comment on that question. 

 <''''''> mmm hmmm

 <''''''> moving on

 <''''''> so, I will ask pak33m if he is interested, but if not

 <''''''> I will need to find someone else

 <''''''> I'll do it chris

 <''''''> there are a couple of things that we can do some wiki tricks to make it easier

 <''''''> oh, hell, I take minutes & whatnot for two other committees, what's one more?

 <''''''> rofl

 <''''''> If MichelleQ wants it she can do it

 <''''''> Well really more or less what we need is to cover each others backs

 <''''''> sure thing

 <''''''> I was trying to keep up with them, but have only really been able to get them in like at the last minute in time for Team Reports

 <''''''> how frequently are the reports due?

 <''''''> The Team Reports are published in UWN if I'm not mistaken

 <''''''> Monthly

 <''''''> monthly

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> itnet7: Yes

 <''''''> by the 24th

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: that wasn't a question

 <''''''> you just answered faster :-)

 <''''''> monthly

 <''''''> so two meeting cycles?

 <''''''> Lol

 <''''''> I'm on a phone too

 <''''''> MichelleQ: if you're really interested, I will hash it out with you soon

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: you're a stud!

 <''''''> itnet7: that's fine

 <''''''> you know where to find me

 <''''''> MichelleQ: It won't be hard. And I can help you

 <''''''> i'll need some help with the wiki-ing

 <''''''> [ACTION] MichelleQ will take over the minutes, I will help and provide backup as needed

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' MichelleQ will take over the minutes, I will help and provide backup as needed''
|}

 <''''''> Paige is getting ready to sing at her end of the year program

 <''''''> aaw

 <''''''> we just came from Quinn's

 <''''''> MichelleQ: the Mootbot-UK will really help with that!!!

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: Awesome!!!

 <''''''> good, I'll need all the wiki-help I can get

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Team Plans for the Future, Going forth, Ideas, Food for thought!

=== Team Plans for the Future, Going forth, Ideas, Food for thought! ===
 <''''''> I had a thought.  

 <''''''> i'd like to suggest we grow

 <''''''> Then it lft

 <''''''> dantalizing: cool, what kind of things do you think we should begin concentrating on?

 <''''''> zoopster and I were talking the other day about the need for someone to organize an Orlango meetup, he has 2 more meetup.com accounts that can be used

 <''''''> mhall119: that is cool

 <''''''> wheres orlango?

 <''''''> I think more meetups would be awesome, I'm new to Florida so it'd be nice to meet everyone

 <''''''> Why use meetup.com when we have loco dir

 <''''''> next to lakerand

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: the idea is to reach people even outside of the LoCo Dir scope

 <''''''> sontek: mhall119 and I will have the birthday bash again this year in the fall.  you'd be welcome to come

 <''''''> I hate to say it but I think we need to use both

 <''''''> for maximum exposure

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> Sounds like duplicating efforts. I recomend just as the ml we vote and only use one

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: most of our meetups are more than just Ubuntu people

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: this isn't a vote this is an idea session

 <''''''> The idea is to make things easier.  Duplicating work doesn't support that

 <''''''> asking everyone to signup with Ubuntu SSO to rsvp didn't seem appropriate

 <''''''> I understand that itnet7 

 <''''''> Might be good to have them in multiple places, for instance having a facebook event people can invite people to

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: we would have it in loco-directory too

 <''''''> I also suggest we work on the website and move away from the wiki

 <''''''> It would be cool if we could use a meetup api or something to publish the data to the loco dir

 <''''''> but we might not get support from Fedora, Suse, and Gentoo users if they have to register with ubuntu.com

 <''''''> mhall119: My point exactly. More work.

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: yes, it is

 <''''''> I thought this was the ubuntu Florida loco. 

 <''''''> but meetups aren't strictly loco events

 <''''''> This is a loco meeting

 <''''''> this is, yes

 <''''''> Not a lug meeting

 <''''''> but we're also involved with LUGS

 <''''''> You're right and we are discussing how to make it grow

 <''''''> we have had plenty of good contributing members that learned about us and joined using meetup.com

 <''''''> anyways

 <''''''> sontek, we do ahve a facebook account that is underutilized

 <''''''> so, there will be new community website themes coming down the pipe soonish, including one for Wordpress

 <''''''> facebook hates its users though

 <''''''> dantalizing: funny you should say that I just added 15 pictures of the Lucid Release party we held :-)

 <''''''> dantalizing: I'd say we can encrypt all our messages, but I tried that and his facebook's character limit on posts :(

 <''''''> oh cool

 <''''''> to both of yoiu

 <''''''> [IDEA] zoopster and I were talking the other day about the need for someone to organize an Orlango meetup, he has 2 more meetup.com accounts

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' zoopster and I were talking the other day about the need for someone to organize an Orlango meetup, he has 2 more meetup.com accounts''
|}

 <''''''> also, if someone wants to do a south or north florida meetup

 <''''''> [IDEA] zoopster and mhall119 were talking the other day about the need for someone to organize an Orlango meetup, he has 2 more meetup.com accounts

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' zoopster and mhall119 were talking the other day about the need for someone to organize an Orlango meetup, he has 2 more meetup.com accounts''
|}

 <''''''> I meant

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> mhall119: did y ou see the last agenda item?

 <''''''> but now the "he" is ambiguous

 <''''''> itnet7: nope

 <''''''> sontek: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings

 <''''''> oh yay!

 <''''''> Not sure if you have seen the agenda 

 <''''''> itnet7: let zoopster know so he can setup an page for it

 <''''''> mhall119: cool

 <''''''> So I was planning to do a couple of installfests this cycle at the Libraries

 <''''''> and I plan to advertise them at the library, at the Universities, and even on a Local Radio Station

 <''''''> we can ask the Tampa meetup group if anyone would be interested in an installfest 

 <''''''> radio huh?  how'd you manage that?

 <''''''> shmolf is working on a radio ad too

 <''''''> I think that it would really help, as I am going to try and grow my "area" so to speak

 <''''''> mhall119: there is a Local Radios station that has a ministry where they allow NGO's and people to call-in and advertise things as long as they are not part of a business

 <''''''> oh nice

 <''''''> You have 45 seconds or a minute

 <''''''> awesome

 <''''''> and you can call up to 3 times a week

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> The other thing is Craigslist

 <''''''> Since the Installfest is going to happen at a public library

 <''''''> You can let other enthusiasts know

 <''''''> Craigslist might not pan out

 <''''''> but you never know until you try

 <''''''> how are the library accomodations for things like tables and power?

 <''''''> local newspapers also will let you post public notices for free .. at least here

 <''''''> Pretty good over here, the problem is getting a couple of people willing to help set up

 <''''''> and help during any troubleshooting

 <''''''> I think we can rely on the team a bit for stuff like that

 <''''''> dantalizing: are we're gonna update ubuntu-fl.org to the new community themes, I'd like to help with that

 <''''''> I'm just starting wordpress programming

 <''''''> that would be cool

 <''''''> mhall119: definitely ... reya276 had already started

 <''''''> Nice!!

 <''''''> oh cool, I haven't heard from him in a while

 <''''''> So I would like for us to try and get some solid ideas, and hopefully act on them

 <''''''> itnet7: blueprints

 <''''''> solid ideas for what?

 <''''''> Yes that is what I was thinking

 <''''''> dantalizing: is reya working on a bzr branch in lp?

 <''''''> dantalizing: like, should we concentrate on growing our areas, should we do every other month installfests, more get togethers up north, more get togethers down south

 <''''''> mhall119: in a manner of speaking

 <''''''> ambiguous

 <''''''> mhall119: the only thing relevant in there is the theme

 <''''''> that's the only part I was talking about :)

 <''''''> Should the team focus on keeping ubuntu-fl.org way up to date, blasting it with info!! and content?

 <''''''> Collectively we can do it!

 <''''''> we used to

 <''''''> sorta

 <''''''> okay, I need to ask, family.ubuntu.com has been up and running for some months now, but I'm the only one who's posted anything on it.  If there's really no interest, we should take it down

 <''''''> i say take it down

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: what's your feelings on it?

 <''''''> Catching up. One sec

 <''''''> I personally wish we had a more 'social' website ... before you puke ....

 <''''''> family.ubuntu-fl.org

 <''''''> I once had a loco website up on ning

 <''''''> which allows blog posting, pics, etc, etc

 <''''''> but nobody was interested in that either

 <''''''> well, once (if) diaspora becomes available, we can setup a seed

 <''''''> i'd still like to do somethign like elgg

 <''''''> [IDEA] dantalizing> I personally wish we had a more 'social' website

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' dantalizing> I personally wish we had a more 'social' website''
|}

 <''''''> OMG i swear, HTC's site is amazingly SLOW to download a ROM update for my company phone :(

 <''''''> I think when the new ubuntu community themes are released we should make a huge effort to move from the wiki to the website

 <''''''> dantalizing: are there any social servers we can run ourselves?

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: the idea of the original site was to use that for outside communication and use the wiki for team scheduling/work/communicating

 <''''''> mhall119: elgg

 <''''''> mhall119: What do u think of making family. A planet 

 <''''''> +1 dantalizing 

 <''''''> howdy

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: we already have a planet on ubuntu-fl.org

 <''''''> another thing to think about

 <''''''> Hello there Swian!

 <''''''> (meeting time)

 <''''''> hows it going?

 <''''''> not bad and you?

 <''''''> is we have a google apps domain with wave/chat/mail etc

 <''''''> doing ok

 <''''''> moved my wife from her iMac to Ubuntu

 <''''''> dantalizing: we do now, or are you suggesting we get one?

 <''''''> mhall119: we do now

 <''''''> nice Swian !

 <''''''> There is a push to move loco teams off the wiki. Or atleast that was my take on discussions at uds

 <''''''> oh, didn't know that

 <''''''> There is a django social application called pinax that we could use as a base for creating a social site

 <''''''> mhall119: yes

 <''''''> google.com/a/ubuntu-fl.net

 <''''''> iirc

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: I'm all for moving things off the wiki

 <''''''> we have had one for a while

 <''''''> it's even listed on planet.ubuntu.com

 <''''''> pinax is also goodish

 <''''''> oh, django, I'm sold

 <''''''> mhall119: cjohnston|cell too bad the community council isn't

 <''''''> They don't want to move loco teams off the wiki?

 <''''''> sontek: do you have any experience with pinax

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: what did you hear that made you think otherwise?

 <''''''> Jono mentioned it a number of times

 <''''''> mhall119: I've done one project with it, I have a lot of experience with some of its individual parts though 

 <''''''> I know in the loco dir session. But others as well

 <''''''> We have way too much duplication. 

 <''''''> sontek: cool, so you could help build it

 <''''''> yeah

* '''''' pays attention

 <''''''> a python framework

 <''''''> crazy

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: it was more like, "Man, I wish we could get off wiki's"

 <''''''> dantalizing: would you be willing to do it in pinax?

 <''''''> When you do something you have to post on the wiki, the website, the loco dir, Twitter identica fb

 <''''''> mhall119: definitely

 <''''''> cool, let's do it

 <''''''> Well now we need to schedule a hackfest

 <''''''> sontek: :-)

 <''''''> let meet halfway

 <''''''> panama city

 <''''''> :)

 <''''''> I have one kitchen table that's readily available

 <''''''> itnet7: Thats not how I took it. They want to make loco dir to where it can be the teams website

 <''''''> I was going to say we do it in Ft.Laud so I can do some diving down there, but Panama City has some good diving too! :P

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: not exactly the team's websites

 <''''''> sontek: where are you from

 <''''''> Pensacola

 <''''''> but something better than wiki

 <''''''> mhall119: Yes

 <''''''> -1 halfway to pensacola

 <''''''> But I don't mind driving down south, gives me a chance to dive other places around FL :P

 <''''''> That it *can* be if that is all the team wants to run

 <''''''> dont forget you promised to take me out sontek ...

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> +1 for diving

 <''''''> mhall119: i used to be certified ... :(

 <''''''> sontek: how are you going to take him out? Poison Darts? Bows and arrows?

 <''''''> lethal injection?

 <''''''> paper cuts

 <''''''> ;-)

 <''''''> ow

 <''''''> he's gonna install Vista on his laptop and watch him kill himself

 <''''''> MichelleQ++

 <''''''> that would work

 <''''''> and I thought I was mean, mhall119

 <''''''> Why don't we lead the way in getting our team off the wiki. It doesn't really provide much benifit other than that anyone can edit it

 <''''''> worse, he'll install Java on it too

 <''''''> dantalizing: Of course!

 <''''''> The wiki is slow and has a large learning curve

 <''''''> itnet7: going to introduce him to a nice Jelly called the man o' war ;P

 <''''''> the wilki learning curve is circular

 <''''''> sontek: ouch

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: there are teams that love wiki's, there are even people that prefer wiki's over websites

 <''''''> mmmm...jelly

 <''''''> just because you don't

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://bc.tech.coop/blog/060302.html''
|}

 <''''''> http://bc.tech.coop/blog/060302.html

 <''''''> doesn't mean it should change for everyone

 <''''''> Then they can continue

 <''''''> oh, didn't mean for mootbot to get that

 <''''''> wow so much for standards, eh?

 <''''''> But i'm down for driving to Ft.Laud area for a hackfest + divefest 

 <''''''> rofl mhall119 

 <''''''> But there is way too much duplication of things. There is no need for two sites

 <''''''> I'll be in the keys June 18-25th, so I could stop down there on the way

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: how much has the duplication affected you directly Team wise?

 <''''''> sontek: look out for tar and oil

 <''''''> [TOPIC] CD's Have Arrived!

=== CD's Have Arrived! ===
 <''''''> yay swag!

 <''''''> syberghost wants one

 <''''''> I don't have access to change things on the website. But I should advertise my event on the loco dir, the wiki, and the wp site

 <''''''> And if we do it in pinax we can obviously write a converter to generate a moin syntax generator so that any data created on the site can be dropped into the wiki easily

 <''''''> i think i owe him one from the last 3 releases

 <''''''> So the CD's arrived just before UDS, and If I would have know about the Volcanic ash, I would have tried to get them out to everyone

 <''''''> or atleast up to Lakeland :-)

 <''''''> mmmm mm m syberghost

 <''''''> If the team prefers a wiki then take down the website and point the URL to the wiki page

 <''''''> haven't heard that name in a while

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: its not necessarily an either or thing

 <''''''> it really might be ok to ahve both

 <''''''> Why both though

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: are you part sith lord?

 <''''''> Not sure what that is

 <''''''> mhall119: yeah!

 <''''''> omg

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: star wars joke

 <''''''> you are a starwars fan right?

 <''''''> No

 <''''''> ah... now everything is clear

 <''''''> you're an anakin skywalker fan?

 <''''''> who isn't

 <''''''> come to the dark side.  we have cookies.

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell isn't, get him Swian 

 <''''''> anyone who has seen the movies

 <''''''> Lol

 <''''''> Swian: the people of Alderan

 <''''''> I'm lost

 <''''''> they're dead

 <''''''> only sith lords believe in absolutes

 <''''''> :-P

 <''''''> that's kind of an absolute

 <''''''> yep

 <''''''> mhall119: lol

 <''''''> omg, the jedis were hypocrites

 <''''''> death has that effect

 <''''''> ROFL

 <''''''> getting back on track

* '''''' blinks

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> I realized I couldn't call myself a starwars fan when a couple of my buddies started discussing the colors of everyones light sabers and how they are supposed to change as they progress as a jedi but annakins never did or something like that

 <''''''> I just think resources could be much better used and much better directed. 

 <''''''> at that point I realized I liked the series, but wasn't a true starwars fan ;P

 <''''''> anakins changed

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: I think we need more done in loco-directory to replace the wiki

 <''''''> So, I was planning to try and get over towards Orlando/Lakeland this weekend and I would bring some CD's to distribute

 <''''''> itnet7: what track was that?:

 <''''''> itnet7: Saturday afternoon we're busy

 <''''''> dance recital

 <''''''> unless you want to come see the dance

 <''''''> MichelleQ: I am confused myself, I wouldn't ask me which track

 <''''''> okthen

 <''''''> mhall119: I think u-FL.org could be used where loco dir lacks

 <''''''> mhall119: I was thinking that might be cool, but didn't want to impose

 <''''''> beside

 <''''''> besides there is always Sunday

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: possibly, but we'll need to open it up to more people

 <''''''> so that you can have some quality family time

 <''''''> itnet7: there is NEVER sunday

 <''''''> The last time the website was updated that I can tell was February

 <''''''> There will be smoked Meats on Sunday

 <''''''> sunday was canceled, didn't you get the memo?

 <''''''> who let the windows guy back in?

 <''''''> zbrown: lol

 <''''''> he's spying!

 <''''''> sunday has been replaced with 'funday'

 <''''''> I thought it was Bunday

 <''''''> no

 <''''''> Funday

 <''''''> So what's the point of having it if we are just gonna neglect it

 <''''''> oh

 <''''''> buns are fun

 <''''''> "yes Bill, they're in their meeting.... Um hmmm... Hold on ..."

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: that is your fault as well as anyone elses

 <''''''> "they're making fun of vista and iis again"

 <''''''> I don't have access to it

 <''''''> oh, it was my vista jokes that brought him around

 <''''''> mhall119: lol

 <''''''> he must have highlights set on the channel

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: did you ever ask?

 <''''''> he really is spying

 <''''''> i belive you do cjohnston|cell 

 <''''''> So do I

 <''''''> But if we don't have to update three things it makes life easier

 <''''''> i'll check

 <''''''> hmmm

 <''''''> Last I checked I could modify my profile and that was it

 <''''''> This magical piece that this Tamiya kit is referring to does not exist

 <''''''> oh nm, there it is

 <''''''> cjohnston|cell: we've been complaining about this multiple update thing for a long long time .... 

 <''''''> quite frankly they also want us to update UWN, team reports, fridge

 <''''''> And I'm suggesting we fix that and it sounds like noone else is interested

 <''''''> exactly

 <''''''> well hopefully loco-dir can start generating content for UWN and team reports

 <''''''> well going off and doing our own thing isnt the answer

 <''''''> someone needs to come up with a real communication strategey for community teams

 <''''''> what is doing our own thing?

 <''''''> using the website instead of the wiki?

 <''''''> If this pinax stuff works out for us, we can incorporate some of that into loco.ubuntu.com, and that could probably replace most of the wiki use

 <''''''> hmmm

 <''''''> cjohnston: to stop cold turkey using a resource that a lot of people depend on because we have to update more than one place

 <''''''> course, zbrown will want to do it in Ruby

 <''''''> why are female artists from across the pond hot and the ones here aren't?

 <''''''> iron ruby

 <''''''> Unless everyone did it

 <''''''> im never said stop cold turkey

 <''''''> i said work on moving away from the wiki

 <''''''> dantalizing: if I were to do it in Ruby, then yesl, probably IronRuby

 <''''''> seeing as I work on it now

 <''''''> it will be a process, not just a redirect

 <''''''> zbrown: the ocean creates an optical illusion

 <''''''> not according to the pics last.fm is streaming to me currently

 <''''''> And I don't have access to changing things on the website.. I have profile and tools only

 <''''''> last.fm also lies

 <''''''> dantalizing said it best earlier... someone needs to come up with a real communication strategey for community teams

 <''''''> zbrown: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susan_Boyle

 <''''''> mmm no

 <''''''> If you think you have that idea cjohnston then suggest it as a brainstorm so the teams can vote on it

 <''''''> cjohnston: We can update your role to allow you to blog if it hasn't already

 <''''''> idea > work on improving the website to move away from relying on the wiki

 <''''''> or find parts of our wiki that would be better served elsewhere, and start adding them

 <''''''> most of it would

 <''''''> find a place for them

 <''''''> Team reports, obviously not

 <''''''> I'll start workin on it

 <''''''> i think team reports can be a function of loco-directory in the near future

 <''''''> take a look at tonight cjohnston we are trying to have a team meeting, you didn't add any agenda items, but you want to talk about this the entire time

 <''''''> There usually is time at the end 

 <''''''> to discuss things like this

 <''''''> open floor an all

* '''''' has an open-mic item

 <''''''> one last thing as a topic

 <''''''> iim sorry.. the Team Plans for the Future, Going forth, Ideas, Food for thought! 

 <''''''> plans for the future part kinda was what i was going on

 <''''''> but thanks for the acusation of hijacking the meeting

 <''''''> cjohnston: create a blueprint for the migration, and start listing pages that can be moved

 <''''''> cjohnston: I wasn't accusing you of anything

 <''''''> so we can work on them as we find them

 <''''''> itnet7: then what would you call it.

 <''''''> and mark them off

 <''''''> you said im hijacking the meeting

 <''''''> cjohnston: basically what I hear from you is how much extra work that you don't want to do, while I am making sure that things are up to date as well as I can

 <''''''> I didn't make all of these resources

 <''''''> guys, can this be resolved in PM?

 <''''''> I'm just suggesting things can be easier

 <''''''> but as a team we have ben utilizing them

 <''''''> sure

 <''''''> fine with  me

 <''''''> doing it in public is only likely to make it worse

 <''''''> yeah

 <''''''> agreed

 <''''''> so My last topic is an event in South Florida

* '''''' looks around for govatent

 <''''''> RoAkSoAx, is going to do an event down on the FIU campus

 <''''''> date/time?

 <''''''> MichelleQ: right now, it's TBD

 <''''''> he is going to chat with the powers that be at a meeting next week

 <''''''> and narrow down a date

 <''''''> k

 <''''''> I plan to try and help him the best I can

 <''''''> let me know if there's anything i can do from this distance

 <''''''> Sure will, Thanks!

 <''''''> So, if anyone has anything to add feel free

 <''''''> let me jump in real quick

 <''''''> the Florida LoCo has been asked to organize the UbuCon at ALF this year

 <''''''> if anybody knows that they are coming, and wants to be a part of that, let us know

 <''''''> im gonna try mhall119 

* '''''' gives itnet7 the evil eye

 <''''''> I think we're gonna drive up and camp this year, since we have a camper

 <''''''> hopefully, if all goes according to plan, the kiddies will not be in attendance.

 <''''''> mhall119: i'm going

 <''''''> mhall119: could possibly help

 <''''''> depends on the crew they're able to wrangle

 <''''''> [LINK] http://www.junauza.com/2010/05/hacks-to-make-firefox-faster-than.html

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.junauza.com/2010/05/hacks-to-make-firefox-faster-than.html''
|}

 <''''''> almost forgot to share this with everyone

 <''''''> if you haven't tried this it really does work!

 <''''''> I'm going to make a blueprint page for ubucon, so anyone interested can subscribe

 <''''''> coolbeans

 <''''''> MichelleQ: ?

 <''''''> yes?

 <''''''> mhall119: if you would subscribe me.. chrisjohnston  :-)

 <''''''> evil eye?

 <''''''> oh, i was just giving you a hard time

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> ;)

 <''''''> so, i'm gonna be in Kissimmee once a week starting mid-June.  Anyone wanna have dinner?

 <''''''> MichelleQ: for?

 <''''''> what day

 <''''''> dantalizing: how do I add a blueprint to the loco team?

 <''''''> mhall119: has to be a project

 <''''''> iirc

 <''''''> oh...

 <''''''> itnet7: sign language classes

 <''''''> cool!

 <''''''> I thought Jono was recommending teams use blueprints

 <''''''> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-florida

 <''''''> mhall119: ^^^

 <''''''> thanks dantalizing 

 <''''''> it doesnt have to be a project

 <''''''> dantalizing: that link is a project link, not a team link :-)

 <''''''> that first link is where all of the blueprints for the team will be, no?

 <''''''> MichelleQ: you want to be the main contact for the UbuCon stuff?

 <''''''> cjohnston: you're right

 <''''''> forgot you'd done that

 <''''''> https://blueprints.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida

 <''''''> I was trying ~ubuntu-us-florida

 <''''''> mhall119: that's fine

 <''''''> mhall119: ^^

 <''''''> ah!

 <''''''> dantalizing: how do I add a blueprint there?

 <''''''> I need to get with akgraner soonish

 <''''''> I'll subscribe her

 <''''''> mhall119: you cant add one?

 <''''''> if I can

* '''''' checking

 <''''''> dantalizing: not to the ~ubuntu-us-florida

 <''''''> I think cjohnston is right about it only being available to project accounts

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 01:26 ==
=== People Present ===
* itnet7

* sontek

* jamalta

* dantalizing

* mhall119

* MichelleQ

* cjohnston|cell

* ShawnR

* Swian

* zbrown

* cjohnston

=== Actions Recorded ===
* MichelleQ will take over the minutes, I will help and provide backup as needed
