{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Started logging meeting in #ubuntu-us-fl
[19:12:30] <razertek> pak33m: ty ..i just wanted to confirm with you that you got my emails ?
[19:12:48] <cjohnston> mike, can you run it?
[19:12:53] <zoopster> [Topic] Ubuntu Global Jam - Dan
[19:12:53] <dantalizing> if zoopster gets to be a chair, can i at least be a cushion
[19:13:00] <itnet7> lol
[19:13:00] <cjohnston> or zoopster
[19:13:00] <mhall119> I've got company coming over in a few
[19:13:01] <cjohnston> cool
[19:13:05] <MichelleQ> ok, I'm here.
[19:13:07] <zoopster> go danno
[19:13:09] <itnet7> thanks zoopster
[19:13:20] <mhall119> 0/
[19:13:28] * mhall119 evidently has a big head
[19:13:30] <dantalizing> Just a reminder that we're still looking for GJ help in MIA/south florida
[19:13:34] <itnet7> o/
[19:13:36] <dantalizing> and tampa
[19:13:37] <pak33m> razertek: oh i did just havent had time to respond
[19:13:40] <MichelleQ> o/
[19:13:59] <zoopster> anyone in S Florida up to helping with Global Jam?
[19:13:59] <mhall119> when is the global jam again?
[19:14:00] <razertek> pak33m: that is cool....just wanted make sure i had the right email
[19:14:07] <amouge> Im here
[19:14:07] <itnet7> dantalizing: I was thinking of getting with those guys and trying to go make a visit possibly
[19:14:15] <dantalizing> mhall119: march 27-28
[19:14:19] <amouge> has the meeting started technically?
[19:14:21] <dantalizing> er... 26-28
[19:14:25] <zoopster> amouge: yup
[19:14:31] <mhall119> ok
[19:14:33] <dantalizing> itnet7: what guys?
[19:14:36] <amouge> ah ok. will be away for just a minute.
[19:14:37] <dantalizing> mia?
[19:14:51] <govatent> o/
[19:14:55] <itnet7> like govatent, ropetin, etc
[19:15:07] <dantalizing> ay cool
[19:15:22] <zoopster> who else is in S Florida?
[19:15:43] <dantalizing> erict volunteered to help out but he is ouit of town that weekend
[19:15:49] <dantalizing> he can ehlp before then
[19:16:10] <mhall119> bbouza is in miami area too isn't he?
[19:16:21] <zoopster> [action] need volunteers for UbuntuGlobalJam for 26-28 March in S. Florida
[19:16:30] <zoopster> ok moving on
[19:16:32] <govatent> um..what is needed?
[19:16:32] <himuraken> zoopster, I am in SWFL
[19:16:39] <mhall119> govatent, warm bodies
[19:16:52] <dantalizing> we need someoen to organize
[19:17:03] <zoopster> himuraken: want to drive it on the east side?
[19:17:05] <jazz> what is global jam
[19:17:07] <dantalizing> pick a jam, a venue, make it happen
[19:17:09] <govatent> well i wanna try and help. i need help though getting pushed in the right direction
[19:17:20] <himuraken> I could drive to the east if that is what you are asking zoopster
[19:17:26] <dantalizing> govatent: no problem we can push
[19:17:28] <itnet7> andres is back
[19:17:32] <dantalizing> jazz: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:17:32] <mhall119> jazz, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:17:35] <mhall119> I win
[19:17:37] <zoopster> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam
[19:17:43] <mhall119> ha, zoopster wins
[19:17:44] <itnet7> he can give a hand and I can help organize with you govatent
[19:17:45] <razertek_> cjohnston:how do i get the user list to be on the side of irssi?
[19:18:08] <mhall119> razertek, can it wait until after the meeting?
[19:18:10] <zoopster> so himuraken can help, too
[19:18:20] <govatent> i would be more than willing to do it.
[19:18:36] <dantalizing> great!
[19:18:42] <dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/GlobalJam201003
[19:18:43] <govatent> just need some help staying on task. as we know
[19:18:48] <razertek> mhall119: sry np
[19:18:52] <zoopster> [action] govatent to organize UbuntuGlobalJam in S. Florida
[19:19:06] <zoopster> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/GlobalJam201003
[19:19:10] <MichelleQ> govatent: I'll help you out, just let me know what you need
[19:19:10] <dantalizing> when you get details please update this page and the main Global Jam events page linked from here
[19:19:20] <zoopster> govatent: please add details as requested by dantalizing
[19:19:25] <govatent> ok.
[19:19:33] <dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events
[19:19:37] <zoopster> himuraken: please work with govatent for support
[19:19:38] <dantalizing> both pages
[19:19:51] <zoopster> [link] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/Events
[19:19:52] <himuraken> govatent, lets PM after meeting?
[19:19:59] <govatent> please
[19:19:59] <dantalizing> awesome govatent himuraken
[19:20:07] <govatent> i really will need help
[19:20:15] <zoopster> ok...got that one...thanks govatent, himuraken!
[19:20:18] <zoopster> next
[19:20:24] <himuraken> It will be my first time, we can figure it out.
[19:20:29] <MichelleQ> govatent: I got your back. Even from a distance. :D
[19:20:33] <govatent> thanks :)
[19:20:35] <jazz> where exaclty in s florida for global jam? im in fort peirce, dont know what i can do but i have time on my hands
[19:20:46] <mhall119> zoopster, what do we want to do in Tampa?
[19:21:06] <razertek_> so this global jam is taking place in s florida?
[19:21:17] <zoopster> let's set something up mhall119
[19:21:21] <zoopster> not sure what
[19:21:24] <zoopster> ideas?
[19:21:51] <mhall119> how about a jam?
[19:21:52] <zoopster> itnet7, dantalizing do we have other events planned?
[19:21:56] <zoopster> or jelly?
[19:22:01] <zoopster> seedless?
[19:22:05] <mhall119> jam is better, chunks
[19:22:20] <zoopster> aye...too much information mhall119
[19:22:24] <mhall119> razertek, there are going to be many events all over the world
[19:22:36] <mhall119> we're coordinating the ones in Florida
[19:22:50] <dantalizing> zoopster: we have orlando and gainesville jams planned
[19:22:51] <zoopster> [action] mhall, zoopster to coordinate a tampa jam
[19:22:54] <itnet7> zoopster: for the jam?
[19:22:55] <razertek> mhall119: ic
[19:23:21] <itnet7> it depends, if everything works out down south and they don't need me I will try to do something up this way
[19:23:21] <zoopster> mhall119 ^^ left off the 119
[19:23:30] <mhall119> personally I'd like to do a documentation jam for edu-games
[19:23:42] <zoopster> ok
[19:23:57] <MichelleQ> I'd be willing to pitch in for a doc.jam
[19:24:02] <mhall119> it would benefit both Qimo and Edubuntu
[19:24:02] <itnet7> Not sure what area that I think we should concentrate on
[19:24:08] <amouge> I can't commit to anything yet, but after talking to my family might like to help out with something in tampa
[19:24:24] <zoopster> [idea] doc jam for Tampa around edu-games
[19:24:41] <zoopster> anything else for globaljam?
[19:24:59] <itnet7> bbiab have to drive about 5 miles
[19:25:00] <sydogg> I'm down for a Tampa Jam.
[19:25:08] <mhall119> hey sydogg
[19:25:22] <sydogg> Hey mhall119
[19:25:48] <zoopster> ok...really moving on now
[19:25:52] <himuraken> Sorry, missed a part, where is the S FL jam going down at?
[19:26:18] <dantalizing> himuraken: yall will have to work that out
[19:26:20] <zoopster> himuraken: you and govatent will decide that...somewhere along the i95 corridor
[19:26:21] <dantalizing> tbd
[19:26:26] <razertek> when about will the tampa jam be?
[19:26:36] <zoopster> 26-28 Mar razertek
[19:26:42] <himuraken> OK, just figured out that I have a perfect space in SWFL, but that would be I75 corridor
[19:26:57] <mhall119> how far south?
[19:27:05] <himuraken> fort myers
[19:27:07] <zoopster> well...maybe you can have one in SWFL himuraken and help out with govatent?
[19:27:17] <himuraken> hrmmm.
[19:27:36] <zoopster> I'd come down to Ft. Myers...not sure I can make it across the alley
[19:28:03] <himuraken> Id need help with the bug triage etc, never done, but commited to help and provide space at my office.
[19:28:03] <govatent> i could go to fort myers.
[19:28:08] <himuraken> Hrmm...
[19:28:21] <himuraken> This would be a weekend event correct?
[19:28:36] <MichelleQ> Fri-Sun
[19:28:37] <zoopster> wow...we could have all corners of FL covered
[19:28:50] <zoopster> but it can be only one day or a few hours one day or???
[19:28:54] <himuraken> Friday night till Sunday night would be fine...
[19:28:58] <crashsystems> florida has too many corners :/
[19:29:05] * amouge agrees
[19:29:10] <himuraken> lol its an odd shaped square isnt it?
[19:29:19] <MichelleQ> rhombus
[19:29:42] * dantalizing wants to hold a pizza jam, but that wouldnt be very productive
[19:29:55] <mhall119> but it sounds tasty
[19:29:56] * MichelleQ signs up for pizza jam
[19:30:02] <zoopster> pizza and jam? not.
[19:30:09] <cjohnston> dantalizing: jcastro mentioned having a jam where you drink and hang out
[19:30:10] <zoopster> maybe pizza and jelly
[19:30:11] <cjohnston> lol
[19:30:13] <govatent> cookie jam?
[19:30:19] <crashsystems> no, you put the pizza in a food processor, and it becomes jam
[19:30:22] <MichelleQ> definitely cookie jam
[19:30:25] <zoopster> now we're talkin' govatent
[19:30:34] <himuraken> Real quick.... I have a few internet connetions, conference room, projector etc, my only concern is the lack of coding skills that I dont have XD
[19:30:36] <MichelleQ> I'll rework the ubuntu cookies
[19:30:38] <zoopster> !cookie govatent
[19:30:38] * ubuntu-fl gives govatent a cookie.
[19:30:39] <dantalizing> cjohnston: we call that ubuntu hour
[19:30:40] <dantalizing> :)
[19:30:49] <mhall119> himuraken, it doesn't have to be a coding jam
[19:30:54] <himuraken> Ahhh.
[19:30:55] <cjohnston> dantalizing: were you drinking? i wasnt
[19:31:00] <MichelleQ> himuraken: I possess not a coding bone in my body
[19:31:09] <mhall119> dantalizing is always drinking
[19:31:33] <himuraken> K sweet. Well if enough people will come to FM, I am sure that I can get permission from the owner of the company.
[19:31:39] <dantalizing> +1
[19:31:47] * mhall119 should be drinking
[19:31:57] <cjohnston> +1
[19:31:58] <MichelleQ> ain't nothing stopping you
[19:33:21] <zoopster> [action] himuraken to update the globaljam event lists for a Ft. Meyers Jam
[19:33:36] <himuraken> govatent, coming to FM eh? XD
[19:33:44] <zoopster> ok...more global jam?
[19:33:56] <sydogg> Speaking of drinking, I spoke to the guys at the Press Box, and they said we can hold the Tampa meetup there if we want.
[19:34:00] * mhall119 is now drinking
[19:34:07] <MichelleQ> sydogg: yeah?
[19:34:10] <zoopster> sydogg: woop!
[19:34:12] <MichelleQ> on a regular basis?
[19:34:20] <sydogg> sure
[19:34:22] <zoopster> need a feb meetup
[19:34:29] <MichelleQ> need a free time in feb
[19:34:33] <MichelleQ> that isn't v-day
[19:34:39] <mhall119> zoopster, our Feb weekends are pretty well booked
[19:34:40] <zoopster> when is v-day?
[19:34:46] <MichelleQ> next Sunday
[19:34:48] <mhall119> valentines, get your sweety something
[19:34:59] <zoopster> oh geez...I already did.
[19:35:01] <zoopster> nevermind
[19:35:02] <MichelleQ> following week is Scale, then the boy's home build day
[19:35:03] <itnet7> back
[19:35:04] <itnet7> sorry
[19:35:14] <itnet7> reading the scrollback
[19:35:15] <zoopster> so...nothing else for global jam?
[19:35:27] <jazz> zoopster, where in S Florida?
[19:35:30] <MichelleQ> sydogg: can you get me the press box's contact info?
[19:35:51] <dantalizing> zoopster: i think we're jammed out for today
[19:36:00] <zoopster> jazz: mia or ftl and himuraken is going to do a Ft Myers event
[19:36:08] <zoopster> jam is done
[19:36:11] <zoopster> [topic] Looking for instructors to teach classes in #ubuntu-classroom
[19:36:27] <zoopster> cjohnston that is your topic
[19:36:32] <cjohnston> hey guys
[19:36:34] <cjohnston> um
[19:36:39] <himuraken> Agenda link please.
[19:36:45] <mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
[19:36:48] <cjohnston> We are looking for people to teach classes in the #ubuntu-classroom
[19:37:00] <mhall119> cjohnston, is there a schedule or something up?
[19:37:02] <MichelleQ> I don't think I have anything at all of interest, cjohnston
[19:37:16] <mhall119> you could teach baking
[19:37:23] <amouge> lol
[19:37:24] <sydogg> MichelleQ : 1-813-876-3528 is the phone and pressboxsports@aol.com
[19:37:36] <MichelleQ> sydogg: awesome, thanks
[19:37:40] <jazz> zoopster, thanks
[19:37:40] * amouge has an idea on something he would like to see a class on.
[19:37:53] <dantalizing> cjohnston: anything in particular?
[19:37:53] <amouge> a more in depth class on django :)
[19:38:16] <amouge> maybe something specific to those of us moving from php ;-)
[19:38:54] <mhall119> amouge, anything specific about Django you'd like to see covered?
[19:38:58] <MichelleQ> zoopster: can we pow-wow about the tampa feb meetup tomorrow?
[19:39:11] <zoopster> MichelleQ: yep
[19:39:16] <MichelleQ> :)
[19:39:18] <itnet7> cjohnston: maybe it would help to create a list of possible topics to pick from
[19:39:19] <dantalizing> did cjohnston disappear?
[19:39:21] <cjohnston> You can teach (almost) anything you want... And as long as there is no classes scheduled, whenever you want to
[19:39:24] <cjohnston> sorry
[19:39:31] <mhall119> drinking probably
[19:39:32] <cjohnston> itnet7: im going to work on that
[19:39:37] <cjohnston> lappy froze
[19:39:45] <mhall119> cjohnston, I can do an hour during my lunch break one day
[19:39:50] <MichelleQ> I'll host a baking session, if anyone really wants
[19:39:53] <cjohnston> can be eekends too
[19:39:55] <cjohnston> weekends
[19:39:58] <MichelleQ> just sayin'
[19:40:08] <mhall119> I'd be better of during lunch
[19:40:21] <cjohnston> okie
[19:40:23] <cjohnston> but ya..
[19:40:28] <mhall119> amouge, could you make a lunch-time session during the week?
[19:40:37] <cjohnston> if you want to teach something.. just talk to me and i can schedule
[19:40:41] <amouge> mhall119: yes I work from home
[19:40:45] <jazz> what about classes on python? or something for the newbies interested on such subjests
[19:40:53] <mhall119> cool, cjohnston I'll do a Django session then
[19:40:54] <cjohnston> [LINK] http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Classroom
[19:41:01] <himuraken> amouge, im in for learning some of that.
[19:41:09] <himuraken> sorry I mean jazz
[19:41:12] <cjohnston> jazz: the BT team is working on a python series
[19:41:28] <amouge> jazz: yea, I'd actually like to see a two part class.. not necessarily by the same person.. some of the basics on python, and basics on django in real world practice
[19:41:45] <amouge> I'd be biased toward web development specifically.
[19:41:56] <jazz> later can i have a links what BT and the times for classes
[19:42:18] <cjohnston> jazz: they will be on that page ^^
[19:42:27] <cjohnston> im in a meeting.. so im sorry for being short
[19:42:31] <itnet7> jazz: you can add your suggestions for topics that you would like covered to the topic wiki they are planning to create
[19:42:36] <itnet7> it would help to get that feedback
[19:43:06] <itnet7> everyone should be able to add topcs they would like to do and like to see
[19:43:22] <dantalizing> shoudl add ideas to brainstorm and tag them 'classroom'
[19:43:25] <dantalizing> or something
[19:43:34] <cjohnston> we are working on some feedback type stuff for the classroom
[19:43:35] <itnet7> Yeah that would be cool :-)
[19:43:47] <cjohnston> but talk to me sometime...
[19:43:57] <jazz> sorry was getting the llink book marked
[19:44:02] <mhall119> cjohnston, is there a wiki to sign up or make suggestions?
[19:44:13] <cjohnston> mhall119: sign up? to teach?
[19:44:18] <jazz> itnet7, how can i add sugestion?
[19:44:20] <mhall119> yes
[19:44:20] <cjohnston> either way, talk to me
[19:44:26] <mhall119> I am talking to you
[19:44:36] <cjohnston> there are instructions on the classroom page that give you more info
[19:44:43] <cjohnston> mhall119: when im not in two meetings at once
[19:44:45] <jazz> thanks
[19:44:54] <mhall119> cjohnston, when is that?
[19:45:13] <itnet7> jazz: we will let you know as soon as the wiki is available
[19:45:13] <cjohnston> tomorrow
[19:45:50] <zoopster> so do you want to be done cjohnston?
[19:46:00] <cjohnston> im done if noone else has anything for me
[19:46:31] <dantalizing> can you sent the wiki page to the ml?
[19:46:41] <dantalizing> cjohnston: ^^
[19:46:44] <cjohnston> remind me later
[19:46:56] <mhall119> dantalizing, which wiki page?
[19:46:58] <cjohnston> i wont rememebr otherwise
[19:47:02] <jazz> youse have my gmail then to contact me then yes?
[19:47:08] <dantalizing> well if i see you and remember, i wont need to get it in email
[19:47:15] <cjohnston> lol
[19:47:21] <cjohnston> adding to todo list
[19:47:25] <itnet7> cool
[19:47:35] <itnet7> is it open floor now?
[19:47:36] <dantalizing> ty
[19:47:38] <cjohnston> done
[19:47:41] <zoopster> [topic] open discussion
[19:47:47] <itnet7> o/
[19:47:51] <jazz> how about them saints?!
[19:47:59] <zoopster> that was a great game
[19:48:02] <MichelleQ> o/, when you're done, itnet7
[19:48:03] <mhall119> game?
[19:48:28] <jazz> superbowl .
[19:48:32] <himuraken> I would like additional information on the jam types etc. I think that I can pull off a docu and/or triage jam.
[19:48:33] <itnet7> I would like to vote to change the day of the week the meeting is on so that I can try and attend the LUG meetings and try and build a better relationship with them, I am out with them now as we speak
[19:48:39] * himuraken reading like crazy.
[19:48:43] <itnet7> can we do a poll
[19:48:47] <itnet7> on ubuntu-fl.org
[19:48:48] <itnet7> ?
[19:48:52] <MichelleQ> sure
[19:49:02] <dantalizing> itnet7: i will make it so
[19:49:14] <dorgan> itnet7: does the LUG meet every tuesday?
[19:49:22] <itnet7> Thanks dantalizing we need to try and start giving ubuntu-fl.org some love
[19:49:32] <itnet7> mhall119: done
[19:49:51] <itnet7> dorgan: yes
[19:50:03] <itnet7> they don't announce the place until practically the last minute
[19:50:07] <dorgan> hmmm, what town?
[19:50:22] <itnet7> but that is because the main place they hold the meetings isn't in business anymore
[19:50:30] <itnet7> right now we are longdoggers on beachside
[19:50:40] <itnet7> satellite beach i think
[19:51:11] <dorgan> hmm ok I think I will have to start attending at least once a month
[19:51:25] <itnet7> I was not trying to imply that there was anything wrong with ubuntu-fl... btw
[19:51:38] <itnet7> I am going to start trying to make more posts
[19:51:46] <mhall119> itnet7 is switching to gentoo
[19:51:50] <itnet7> no
[19:51:53] <mhall119> Mudsplatter convinved him
[19:51:59] <itnet7> no way mhall119
[19:52:09] <mhall119> he's also becoming anti-social
[19:52:26] <itnet7> mhall119: you're cruizin lol
[19:52:29] <itnet7> :-P
[19:52:36] <mhall119> don't mute me bro
[19:52:52] <itnet7> no, I would never
[19:52:53] <himuraken> lol
[19:52:55] <itnet7> well
[19:52:56] <govatent> troll
[19:52:57] <itnet7> maybe
[19:52:58] <itnet7> lol
[19:53:07] <himuraken> I would like additional information on the jam types etc. I think that I can pull off a docu and/or triage jam.
[19:53:09] <govatent> well i tried open solaris and that turned out great
[19:53:33] <himuraken> Anyone here that has run one have any tips etc? I am now subscribed to the ubuntu-planners mailing list.
[19:53:40] <itnet7> himuraken: RoAkSoAx can help you and govatent out
[19:54:07] <itnet7> himuraken: you live in Florida now?
[19:54:11] <dantalizing> itnet7 already went through his gentoo phase
[19:54:11] <itnet7> going to school
[19:54:13] <himuraken> Fort Myers Now yes.
[19:54:21] <itnet7> dantalizing: yeah when I was 5
[19:54:22] <itnet7> j/k
[19:54:29] <dantalizing> only with blfs
[19:54:38] <itnet7> Yeah, that is true
[19:54:49] <dantalizing> now he wants something that works and doesnt have a disfunctional community
[19:54:52] <itnet7> nothing like compiling firefox for 3 hours from source
[19:55:00] <dantalizing> i call lies
[19:55:03] <itnet7> lol true dat dantalizing
[19:55:15] <itnet7> your right it took longer than 3 hours
[19:55:23] <razertek> brb
[19:55:36] <razertek_> quit
[19:56:47] <zoopster> and is the meeting over?
[19:56:56] <jazz> i was thinking thye same thing
[19:57:09] <himuraken> govatent, you are down with coming to Fort Myers right?
[19:57:18] <himuraken> zoopster, you had mentioned something as well right?
[19:57:22] <MichelleQ> oh, er, ahcnor house build day is tentatively rescheduled for Feb 27th
[19:57:26] <govatent> i can do that i guess.
[19:57:29] <MichelleQ> anchor house
[19:57:38] <zoopster> depending on the kid situation that weekend...I can do Ft Myers
[19:57:51] <himuraken> What do people usually do for lodging?
[19:57:52] <itnet7> uh-oh... same day as the stardust opug meeting, eh?
[19:57:55] <crashsystems> I never had a Gentoo phase.
[19:57:58] <himuraken> or is it typically a one day event?
[19:58:07] <dantalizing> itnet7: are we assuming the same time for the meetings?
[19:58:08] <mhall119> one day usually
[19:58:10] <MichelleQ> itnet7: which?
[19:58:12] <govatent> i had a red hat/ fedora phase
[19:58:29] <crashsystems> fedora was my first distro, but then I switched back to XP
[19:58:38] <dantalizing> MichelleQ: opug meeting is that day
[19:58:42] <govatent> red hat was my first distro
[19:58:47] <itnet7> Uhm... not sure exactly dantalizing
[19:58:51] <MichelleQ> oh, well... We're running into scheduling issues
[19:58:59] <dantalizing> itnet7: we'll say 8
[19:59:01] <dantalizing> for now
[19:59:09] <itnet7> sounds good to me
[19:59:34] <MichelleQ> ok, we done-ish?
[19:59:34] <chrisn_> Jazz ever worked on a Ubuntu email server?
[19:59:46] <itnet7> unless you want to put that too as a choice
[19:59:47] <jazz> chrisn_, no i have not
[19:59:56] <chrisn_> :(
[20:00:01] <itnet7> like 7 or 8 but I think 8 would be best
[20:00:37] <dantalizing> i like 8
[20:00:46] <SwianX> howdy
[20:00:58] <jazz> chrisn_, im new to linux totally. i do want to learn new things and expieriences
[20:00:58] <itnet7> your talking time of the meeting right? do you think it would be better to move it even later for some families? or members with little ones?
[20:01:08] <itnet7> thinking bedtime stories etc
[20:01:18] <itnet7> SwianX: hey there
[20:01:22] <MichelleQ> 8:30 or 9 would be a terrific improvement for me, itnet7
[20:01:27] <SwianX> hi itnet7
[20:01:44] <itnet7> I would prefer 9 to be honest
[20:01:45] <dantalizing> ok lets tackle that in the next poll
[20:01:48] <itnet7> ok
[20:01:48] <dantalizing> too many options
[20:01:49] <itnet7> lol
[20:01:51] <MichelleQ> itnet7: agreed
[20:01:51] <itnet7> yeah
[20:01:58] <itnet7> lets get the day nailed down then the time
[20:02:02] <itnet7> next poll
[20:02:09] <MichelleQ> reasonable
[20:03:23] <razertek> back
[20:03:33] <itnet7> I am going to duck out thanks for everyone's patience tonight and for covering for me on the meeting :-)
[20:03:46] <itnet7> I will be on later tonight when I get home
[20:03:49] <itnet7> hopefully
[20:03:57] <razertek> itnet7: np take care
[20:04:00] <razertek> =)
[20:04:02] <MichelleQ> I've got to go make goodie bags. I'll BBIAB
[20:04:21] <SwianX> later
[20:04:27] <SwianX> watching Dexter
[20:04:38] <itnet7> SwianX: hold the phone
[20:04:46] <itnet7> old episodes right?
[20:04:51] <SwianX> yeah, netflix
[20:04:56] <itnet7> Ah!
[20:04:58] <itnet7> cool
[20:05:01] <SwianX> season 2
[20:05:08] <itnet7> you mind reader, you!!
[20:05:10] <SwianX> we finished season 1 last night
[20:05:10] <itnet7> cool
[20:05:15] <itnet7> no spoilers
[20:05:25] <itnet7> talk with you all a little later!!
[20:05:30] <SwianX> ok
[20:05:32] <SwianX> later
[20:06:04] <maddog_2009> the buttler did it
[20:06:21] <chrisn_> anyone here every Build a Ubuntu Email server that works?
[20:08:25] <govatent> bbl
[20:08:37] <cjohnston> did we #end?
[20:09:05] <razertek> bbiab
[20:09:09] <chrisn_> I think so!
[20:10:44] <zoopster> [endmeeting]
[20:11:09] <zoopster> #endmeeting
Meeting ended.
</pre>
