{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by chaynie at 23:59 ==
 <''''''> Bwahahah.

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> power hungry?

 <''''''> oh dear

 <''''''> hahaha.

 <''''''> ha.

* '''''' is scared..

 <''''''> meh.

 <''''''> that should be [TOPIC] Bwahahaha

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings/#Agenda

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings/#Agenda''
|}

 <''''''> ok, first off, everyone who is participating make an animal sound.

 <''''''> moo

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> baaaad.

 <''''''> meow

 <''''''> woof

 <''''''> bang

 <''''''> who gave chaynie command? lol

 <''''''> cjohnston: he lost a bet

 <''''''> mhall119: What goes bang, praytell?

 <''''''> I'm worried about your animals, mhall119

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Animals that go "Bang."

=== Animals that go "Bang." ===
 <''''''> A hippopatums jumping of the back of a truck

 <''''''> beached whales

 <''''''> oh dear Jesus...

 <''''''> he does not, however, go bang

 <''''''> I read that as hiphopopatomus..the internet has scarred me.

 <''''''> this is going nowhere, spectacularly, eh?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Updates from Last Week.

=== Updates from Last Week. ===
 <''''''> Ok now to business.

 <''''''> what was last week

 <''''''> last week

 <''''''> Does anyone have anything from last meeting that needs updating?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Updates from Last Meeting.

=== Updates from Last Meeting. ===
 <''''''> The first agenda item could fall under that

 <''''''> I have been checking into the venue

 <''''''> and had asked for an update prior to this meeting

 <''''''> cjohnston: OK, we'll start there.

 <''''''> unfortunately I haven't received one yet, so I will try and ask again

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS Welcome Party update

=== UDS Welcome Party update ===
 <''''''> itnet7: ok

 <''''''> and if I hear anything I will update all of you through the ML

 <''''''> mhall119 and I have babysitting for UDS squared away, so I'm ready to officially start planning the Welcoming party

 <''''''> yay

 <''''''> I have some bad news though.

 <''''''> Sorry I shared all that because it was the last item from our last meeting

 <''''''> chaynie: you better be going

 <''''''> I just got loaded down at work this week, and may not be able to make it.

 <''''''> :-p

 <''''''> Man!!

 <''''''> :p

 <''''''> itnet7: I'm going to try my damnedest though.

 <''''''> This is probably the only time in 50 years it will be held in Florida

 <''''''> [ACTION] chaynie is going to work weekends so he can make it UDS

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' chaynie is going to work weekends so he can make it UDS''
|}

 <''''''> (probably not)

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> that's the spirit!

 <''''''> Note to self: plan Chaynie kidnapping

 <''''''> can we put that as an action item?

 <''''''> I don't see why not...

 <''''''> Uhm, sure

 <''''''> I suspect I won't be able to go :(

 <''''''> crashsystems1: ?

 <''''''> [VOTE] Should MichelleQ kidnap chaynie and take him to UDS?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>''Motion:  Should MichelleQ kidnap chaynie and take him to UDS?''
|}
 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> To uds

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> I think that settles it.

 <''''''> methinks this is gonna be unanimous.

 <''''''> that was me voting privately :-p

 <''''''> [ENDVOTE]

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#55FF55>Results: 6 in favour, 0 against, 0 abstained.
|-
| <#55FF55>Overall: 6
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Carried:  Should MichelleQ kidnap chaynie and take him to UDS?
|-
| <#55FF55>Motion Denied:  Should MichelleQ kidnap chaynie and take him to UDS?
|-
| <#55FF55>Deadlock. If someone has a casting vote now is the time to use it
|}
* '''''' polishes up kidnapping skills

 <''''''> Well everyone, thanks for your support.

* '''''' needs a crossbow

 <''''''> ok, anything else regarding the welcome party?

 <''''''> Not at the moment.  Need confirmation of venue first

 <''''''> crashsystems1: I understood that just wondering why! I am sure we can cram you in a Room or on a couch somewhere

 <''''''> at some point we need to start looking at Plan-B

 <''''''> Alright.

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS Welcome Party update

=== UDS Welcome Party update ===
 <''''''> cjohnston: you have the floor.

 <''''''> Isn't that the last topic?

 <''''''> or whatever the irc equivalent is.

 <''''''> isn't that what we were just talking about?

 <''''''> ppft.

 <''''''> mhall119: I'll start working on a backup plan

 <''''''> stupid clipboard.

 <''''''> glibber FTW

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS Accomodations

=== UDS Accomodations ===
 <''''''> glipper even

 <''''''> It is a matter of money. If I don't have a job, I won't make it. If I do, I may or may not be able to get the time off

 <''''''> MichelleQ: thanks, I thought that we would have heard something by now...Will follow up tomorrow

 <''''''> ok. I'll be around all day tomorrow, itnet7

 <''''''> in any case, cjohnston still has the floor.

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N/OtherAccommodation

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N/OtherAccommodation''
|}

 <''''''> pak33m: ping

 <''''''> Assuming I'm able to go, I can probably house one person for the week.

 <''''''> Anyone interested in going to UDS who isn't sponsored, doctormo is putting together a list of people interested in staying next door to the hotel. It is a three room minimum, and if the rooms are double occ, its $180 for the week

 <''''''> Otherwise, stay at chaynie's house

 <''''''> rofl

 <''''''> I'd offer space, but we're pretty well booked already.

 <''''''> itnet7: hey im here

* '''''' isnt looking forward to driving everyday

 <''''''> The Hotel is within walking distance

 <''''''> from UDS

 <''''''> itnet7: sorry open house ran late

 <''''''> hey all

 <''''''> cjohnston: you are minutes away, I don't wanna hear it

 <''''''> pak33m: your up soon

 <''''''> we'll be commuting every day

 <''''''> 45 minutes mhall119.. its as close to you as it is me

 <''''''> itnet7: eee im sooo nervous

 <''''''> thats with no trafic

 <''''''> traffic

 <''''''> Deadline: 26th September 2010 

 <''''''> yes.. good point itnet7 

 <''''''> Questions?

 <''''''> cjohnston: Are we still going to offer shuttle services to visitors?

 <''''''> I know nothing about that?

 <''''''> I think I remember us talking about busing some people around if they weren't staying in the hotel, or wanted to see some of orlando.

 <''''''> I could be wrong though.

 <''''''> chaynie: at past UDS the were reimbursed for their cab fair, I think we should just try to bring larger vehicles and offer to drive people to evening events.

 <''''''> hi

 <''''''> I don't remember that conversation.. I'm not sure about that... 

 <''''''> hey there jtatum_w !

 <''''''> itnet7: ok that sounds familiar.

* '''''' doesnt want to end up dd every night

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> itnet7: cafe tu tu tango again?

 <''''''> that place was awesome

 <''''''> itnet7: indeed.

 <''''''> ok, anything else accommodation related before we give pak33m his 15 minutes of fame?

 <''''''> oh

 <''''''> no

 <''''''> pe

 <''''''> one minor thing

 <''''''> They have put up: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N

 <''''''> hey all i hope this fits the current topic but im believe i will be going to uds

 <''''''> and if i can contribute somewhere i will 

 <''''''> pak33m: wanna carpool? I'm pretty sure I'm on the way from your house.

 <''''''> So If you have some info that you would like to add to that to help let everyone know about really good places feel free to lend a hand in updating it

 <''''''> like accomodations, etc

 <''''''> chaynie: of course

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-N''
|}

 <''''''> itnet7: ill add myself 

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Meerkat Release Parties -- A comedy in five acts by pak33m

=== Meerkat Release Parties -- A comedy in five acts by pak33m ===
 <''''''> have at it, pak33m 

 <''''''> chaynie: man alive are you good

 <''''''> hey all

 <''''''> Allo

 <''''''> so, its that time again to plan release parties

 <''''''> hey pak

 <''''''> hey pak33m 

 <''''''> hey mhall119 

 <''''''> something's wrong with my tab key

 <''''''> go here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/MaverickReleaseParties for more info

 <''''''> A birthday party for me?

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/MaverickReleaseParties

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/MaverickReleaseParties''
|}

 <''''''> i and some others cough chaynie cjohnston will be planning a party in orlando

 <''''''> put release party events here http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/326/detail/

 <''''''> if you dot know we like to have folks plan parties for their own towns, cities and villages

 <''''''> Use LoCo Directory! mhall119 wrote it!

 <''''''> cjohnston: helped

 <''''''> and we ask that you add info about your party to https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/MaverickReleaseParties

 <''''''> blame him too

 <''''''> [LINK]http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/326/detail/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>''http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/326/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> mhall119: the global event page should list the team and the event name imo

 <''''''> cjohnston: +1, file a bug

 <''''''> so, if you live in Jacksonville 

 <''''''> Miami 

 <''''''> Orlando 

 <''''''> pak33m 

 <''''''> Pensacola 

 <''''''> Tallahassee 

 <''''''> I think people are gonna get mad at all the bugs i filed today

 <''''''> Tampa 

 <''''''> pak33m: Uh, who lives in pak33m?

 <''''''> and Melbourne

 <''''''> ew

 <''''''> chaynie: you beat me to it

 <''''''> ew is right

 <''''''> ROFL

 <''''''> chaynie: I just got a star wars visual

 <''''''> so, if youre interested in planning and attending a party check that page

 <''''''> I got an Alien visual

 <''''''> [LINK] http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093260/

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0093260/''
|}

 <''''''> last release we had a great party in melbourne

 <''''''> It was kind of cool!

 <''''''> I liked the venue

 <''''''> hopefully we can get parties in other places cough orlando this time around too

 <''''''> omg chaynie, I'd forgotten all about that movie

* '''''' hands pak33m some cough meds

 <''''''> pak33m: I'll help this time, since I'm not 3 weeks from graduating this time.

 <''''''> im talking about all of this in case there are other amongst the usual lot of us that dont know about the release partis

 <''''''> cjohnston: mmm

 <''''''> pak33m: Like me!

 <''''''> Hamaliel: +1

 <''''''> anybody know when the release will be as ive had my head buried in the sand for a while now?

 <''''''> Hamaliel: then welcome 

 <''''''> 10.10.10

 <''''''> pak33m: Thanks =D

 <''''''> itnet7: he i know but how real is that

 <''''''> as real as it gets 

 <''''''> for anybody who doesnt know we try to have a release party on the day of release.sometimes that doesnt happen and we plan for the weekend after or the like.

 <''''''> well. doublechecks

 <''''''> 42?

 <''''''> for anybody who doesnt know basicaly we get together and socialize and admire itnet7 Lupine big laptops

 <''''''> [LINK] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickReleaseSchedule

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickReleaseSchedule''
|}

 <''''''> it days say Sunday, October 10th!

 <''''''> so, i will work on the release party page more

 <''''''> they do have large laptops

 <''''''> hush now I'm blushing 

 <''''''> and mhall119 cannot lie.

 <''''''> s/it days/it does/

 <''''''> Hi All

 <''''''> it's not the size of the laptop that matters, it's the OS it runs

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> Lupine: !

 <''''''> that's what she sid

 <''''''> said

 <''''''> :-p

 <''''''> This is some godawful innuendo ;)

 <''''''> 10.10 since a1 baby!

 <''''''> innuendo? oh crap I thought we were talking about computers

 <''''''> Hamaliel: Blame it on the meeting chair.

 <''''''> seriously it would be great to see folks planning parties in heir own cities, towns and villages (jokersmild aka odomsbar)

 <''''''> mhall119: It's very likely.  My mind is a distressing place.

 <''''''> chaynie: Hah, ok!

 <''''''> anyway, watch the page for more info

 <''''''> chaynie: thats it from me

 <''''''> pak33m: Well, um, you've got 28 minutes to kill.. I'd start dancing.

 <''''''> anybody have any quesitons about the release parties?

 <''''''> chaynie: sorry i play the music

 <''''''> anybody in Tampa want to have one?

 <''''''> One more agenda item *cough*

 <''''''> Unless someone else has a question or something they'd like to discuss.

 <''''''> What is the purpose of the release party?

 <''''''> there's a lot of coughing going on in here tonight

 <''''''> pak33m got itnet7 sick too!

* '''''' gets the lysol

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Story time with itnet7 

=== Story time with itnet7 ===
 <''''''> mhall119: lakeland migt be a fine place for a release party

 <''''''> ROFL

 <''''''> i did one in PA but it was more of an i

 <''''''> October 23rd Theme Park with Milo Casagrande, Inviting others of course! 

 <''''''> "Intro to Ubuntu" party

 <''''''> cjohnston: see what happens when i finally show up

 <''''''> Milo is part of the Italian LoCo and he's gained sponsorship for this UDS

 <''''''> theme park is too vague

 <''''''> [TOPIC] October 23rd Theme Park with Milo Casagrande, Inviting others of course!

=== October 23rd Theme Park with Milo Casagrande, Inviting others of course! ===
 <''''''> does anyone know what time Maverick will be available to download, because I would like to have  a party on 10-10-10, but don't know what time to plan for

 <''''''> It was undecided exactly which one

 <''''''> itnet7: Do you have a theme park in mind?

 <''''''> X-Man: they dont announce the time

 <''''''> but he is leaning toward

 <''''''> X-Man: usually mid-day for us, but it could be anytime 

 <''''''> Universal Studios/Islands of Adventure!

 <''''''> submit ideas using [IDEA]

 <''''''> Two Park Deal!

 <''''''> [IDEA] Gatorland!

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Gatorland!''
|}

 <''''''> really?

 <''''''> LegoLand!

 <''''''> only it won't be open

 <''''''> [IDEA] Universal Studios

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Universal Studios''
|}

 <''''''> I wanted to get some feedback on who thinks they might be able to attend

 <''''''> It's the 23 of Oct?

 <''''''> itnet7: for me it depends on the venue. Price affects attendance.

 <''''''> I am planning to add it on the LoCo Directory, and it would cool if everyone could blog/dent/tweet about ti

 <''''''> itnet7: im off.. depends on if its somewhere i have tickets for

 <''''''> chaynie: I know what you're saying

 <''''''> itnet7: Time is a factor too...I generally work till 3 on Saturdays =\

 <''''''> but if it's any consolation, he wanted to go to Disney at first, and that is a small fortune

* '''''' would rather disney

 <''''''> cjohnston probably has season passes?

 <''''''> cheaper for me

 <''''''> oh

 <''''''> no

 <''''''> just free tix

 <''''''> same result

 <''''''> That is why I didn't put the venue

 <''''''> seaworld ftw

 <''''''> I know like 5 people that work at Disney

 <''''''> just not sure they can get parkhopper passes for everyone

 <''''''> did anybody say flea world!?

 <''''''> ROFL

 <''''''> theyve got a few rides there

 <''''''> hahaha, i kill me

 <''''''> bring all the quarters you can carry

 <''''''> omg, he pulls out he ALF card

 <''''''> how about roller skating

 <''''''> itnet7: tehe, i did

 <''''''> Well I thought about Old Town?

 <''''''> we can bring everyone to Cassadaga

 <''''''> or midnigt bowling

 <''''''> itnet7: not much to old town anymore, downtown disney has more

 <''''''> mini golf

 <''''''> crap....I'm here, but late

 <''''''> most importantly weve got to pick a place that had wifi

 <''''''> He said he was pretty flexible, just thought it would be a ball to hang out with everyone!

 <''''''> oh wait thats for releae parties

 <''''''> pak33m: I dunno, wifi in theme parks seems relevant ;)

 <''''''> motion

 <''''''> tweeting from the rollarcoaster

 <''''''> Well, when I find out more I will let everyone know about the date, He seems pretty sold on Islands of Adventure

 <''''''> Hamaliel: yes, we could have an installfest

 <''''''> not the date the venue

* '''''' hates headcolds

 <''''''> pak33m: Or use irc to communicate when it gets too loud on the rollercoasters...imagine the pictures that the park would get...

 <''''''> duder youre dripping on the keyboard

 <''''''> would riding on a roller coaster increase latency to the ap's?

 <''''''> itnet7: I think there's a scholarly paper in there somewhere.

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> Hamaliel: like http://xkcd.com/249/

 <''''''> :-(

 <''''''> Nice!

 <''''''> mhall119: hah, exactly!

 <''''''> itnet7: no countdown graphic on ubuntu-fl.org

 <''''''> itnet7: for maverick

 <''''''> i heard countdown graphic is broken

 <''''''> that will be fixed shortly

 <''''''> cjohnston: mines working on my site

 <''''''> hmm

 <''''''> i heard there was an issue with apache

 <''''''> dunno

 <''''''> never looked into it

 <''''''> zoopster: I will add it shortly

 <''''''> motion

 <''''''> speaking of which

 <''''''> oh

 <''''''> uh oh

 <''''''> cjohnston: you alright there?

 <''''''> Lets all start adding some content to ubuntu-fl.org PLEASE!! well please??

 <''''''> must not be broken...I've seen it in a few places

 <''''''> just got off the phone with my bro, he can get 3 ppl into disney.

 <''''''> mhall119: im ready for bed

 <''''''> cjohnston: then go to bed

 <''''''> how do we add content?

 <''''''> trying to make a motion to adjourn

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> chaynie: sweet!

 <''''''> zoopster: you should have publishing rights

 <''''''> cjohnston: I'll let you know tomorrow if you miss anything

 <''''''> just log in

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> if not dantalizing and I will fix it

 <''''''> [ACTION] Hit up your disney friends for park access options.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' Hit up your disney friends for park access options.''
|}

 <''''''> Hamaliel: ever blog any?

 <''''''> They will help greatly when going to universal!

* '''''' doesn't have disnet friends anymore

 <''''''> by the way...we're doing a cool "stunt" for maverick release...you can use maverick on ec2 for free for 55 minutes at a time

 <''''''> itnet7: I have never blogged.  Why? :)

 <''''''> cjohnston: if we can get enough people that can get free tickets and really want to go to Disney, I am sure we can switch!

 <''''''> Ok guys, anything else before we close this sucks out?

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> err sucker.

 <''''''> g'nite all

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Last call for meeting items / Open Discussion

=== Last call for meeting items / Open Discussion ===
 <''''''> Hamaliel: you are learning a lot of new cool stuff, thought it might be cool to hear some observations

 <''''''> oh, we need a volunteer for next month's chair

 <''''''> night cjohnston 

 <''''''> cjohnston: night!

 <''''''> mhall119 volunteers

 <''''''> I did it last month

 <''''''> and last meeting

 <''''''> I'll do it again, if you guys will tolerate it.

 <''''''> itnet7: I am learning a lot of cool stuff.  Hadn't even thought about blogging anything.  I dunno what I'd write, but I'd be willing to try!

* '''''' works the 5th

 <''''''> I'll do it again, but wanted to give someone else a chanc

 <''''''> chaynie: I don't know if we can take that much fun

 <''''''> mhall119: we can mail the list and ask for volunteers

 <''''''> mhall119: I have faith. ;D

 <''''''> chaynie: if you're available next meeting, go ahead and take it, and we'll see about getting someone else then

 <''''''> itnet7: Where would you like me to blog? :)

 <''''''> mhall119: Ok, I'll be the default if no one else volunteers.

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> Hamaliel: ubuntu-fl.org, if you create an account and can't add content let me know

 <''''''> Last call for items.

 <''''''> KK, i'll run and set up an account real fast.

 <''''''> zoopster: what countdown one do you like?

 <''''''> Going once.

 <''''''> Going twice.

 <''''''> Thanks chaynie for chairing this one!

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 00:49 ==
=== People Present ===
* chaynie

* itnet7

* cjohnston

* MichelleQ

* Hamaliel

* mhall119

* X-Man

* crashsystems1

* pak33m

* jtatum_w

* Lupine

* erictee

* n3gbz

* zoopster

=== Actions Recorded ===
* chaynie is going to work weekends so he can make it UDS

* Hit up your disney friends for park access options.
