{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pak33m> well im going to lead this meeting in bordy's near absense

<reya276> k

<Mike_F> has everyone here signed up for one of the sub teams ?

<pak33m> were going to cover the plan of action https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/POA that i created to get this team a foundation

<reya276> sub teams?

<pak33m> yes

<Mike_F> How about a better name then "sub teams"

<pak33m> thats what were here for

<reya276> doing so npw

<Bordy> mike really how important is the semantic issue?

<Mike_F> easy things first

<pak33m> anybody else here yet because i would like to begin

<Mike_F> go ahead

<pak33m> cool

<pak33m> firstly i have to mention and apologize because i am a really slow typing person

<pak33m> anyway

<pak33m> the purpose of this meeting is to work from the plan of action to build a foundation for the team

<pak33m> again the planof action is here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/POA

<Bordy> pak33m went through the trouble of working out some plans for us, we've been languishing a bit

<Mike_F> The Plan of Action looks cool

<pak33m> the idea of creating sub-teams should be the first step

<reya276> yes it does

<pak33m> as you may have already seen there are four teams proposed Wiki Maintenance

<pak33m> Education / New User

<pak33m> Marketing

<pak33m> Meetings

<pak33m> there could be more but thats what were here to decide

<Mike_F> I think Wiki and meetings are basicly the same thing

<pak33m> thats a good point

<Bordy> not really

<Bordy> because while some have edited the wiki, until tonight there's been no help at all with meetings

<pak33m> but the meetings really could do more than just take minutes

<reya276> yes Bordy has a point

<Bordy> the idea of the meeting group would be to have people who would help formm solid agendas, keep meetings on track, hold meetings etc

<Bordy> sorry for my slow typing, blackberry is tiny

<Mike_F> I think that stuff is Administration

<pak33m> possibly the meeting team could create the team agenda, post a poll for meetings like was done for this one as well

<martin_wilson89> Sorry I'm late everyone

<reya276> yes because sometimes it's extremely hard just to get people in here, such as my self

<pak33m> thanks for coming martin

<Bordy> exactly. But still sep from wiki maaintenance (eventually site maint after we're approved)

<martin_wilson89> About meetings / wiki teams, the wiki team will most likely expand when we become official and administer a web 
page

<martin_wilson89> lol Just like Bordy said actually

<pak33m> meetings team could take on alot and the wiki team would have their own

<Mike_F> What do people actually want to do besides run the team

<Bordy> yeah. So that's why I stand by the separation, but am open to any argument.

<martin_wilson89> I want to help out in a new users support group

<Mike_F> We need to do the stuff that goes with running the team

<Mike_F> Maybe Team Support would be a good title

<reya276> well what do you have in mind mike

<Bordy> semantics can be figured out later

<reya276> I want to be involved with Maketing and promoting ubuntu

<pak33m> well i feel that we need to at least get something established first like subteams so that we can do stuff

<Mike_F> Sign up, right now I am the only one on Marketing

<martin_wilson89> I agree, pak33m

<reya276> right but I think sub teams would be better organized according to people's skills

<Mike_F> skills or interests

<reya276> right

<pak33m> let me back us up a bit here to address how to meet to get this all going because i dont think that we could get this set 
in one go

<Mike_F> Right now we know that we need to run the team and people are interested in marketing

<Mike_F> the two sub-teams

<Mike_F> what else ?

<pak33m> i was interested in getting togerther more than once a month to ta least get the sub teams established and in the process 
we could get to know each other and each others skills

<Bordy> mike you're being counter productive

<martin_wilson89> New user / local support?

<pak33m> is this something that you guys would be into?

<Bordy> can I slowly interject something?

<Mike_F> i just talking here

<Mike_F> it' my right

<pak33m> go bordy

<martin_wilson89> Side note- pak33m i'm interested

<reya276> yes pak33m is on the right track, we need to get that established first before we can do anything else, which will add to 
Bordy's suggestion

<Bordy> the whole idea of the sub teams (at least my idea) is to give people more narrowed scopes of stuff to do, it encourages 
more participation ... So more teams is more choices is more possibility of participation

<martin_wilson89> I agree to an extent

<reya276> well each sub team will need to have a point person to communicate within the subteams

<martin_wilson89> Wild and crazy specific teams may discourage progress

<reya276> because we won't always be able to attend the meetings at the same time

<pak33m> yes we will establish team leaders as well

<martin_wilson89> I agree with team leaders

<Bordy> martin: true, but hopefully there's some oversight

<reya276> well I don't think it will discourage it will actually make it more organized

<Mike_F> let the people that are interested in the specific sub teams organize themselves

<Bordy> good point

<Mike_F> then when things start to happen everyone will know about ir

<Mike_F> it

<Bordy> but getting people to meet in the first place is a PITA

<martin_wilson89> Good point @ Mike and Chris

<martin_wilson89> I almost forgot about this meeting lol

<Mike_F> I will take the marketing team, since that is something I have to do anyway

<reya276> yes it is and is probably the hardest thing to do

<Mike_F> if someone else wants lead it go ahead

<Mike_F> bfd

<martin_wilson89> A meetings team would actually be cool, they could send out mailing list notifications of upcoming meetings etc.

<reya276> yes that is a good idea

<Bordy> and we already know martin can decode meetings into human speak:)

<Mike_F> good idea

<reya276> :-D

<martin_wilson89> Well I did half of one but then I got lazy...

<Bordy> industrious lil man

<pak33m> could we agree to at least meet up more than once a month to begin the process of creating the sub teams

<pak33m> is anybody intertesed

<Bordy> well we tried wekly and it stunk. Biweek?

<martin_wilson89> It would slow down after the teams were organized and self serving though, right?

<Mike_F> yes, i leave this channel open most of the time

<Bordy> right

<reya276> sure, we can do it. also there has to be commitment

<martin_wilson89> OK then I can agree with more than monthly meetings

<pak33m> i would be interested in biweekly

<martin_wilson89> Until stuff gets organized

<Bordy> reya: we have 51 members and only like 8 showed tonight. Kinda a hazard of teh trade

<Mike_F> or twice a month ?

<pak33m> yes in the meanwhile the sub teams can organize and get their agendas rolling

<pak33m> were going to have to annouce that were doing it and if anybody else is interested they will show and maybe they will want 
to join in a sub team

<Bordy> I mean ideally we could create a very flatly hierarchical structure. No real authority, but a tie-together you know?

<pak33m> would everybod participating here agree to biweekly

<Mike_F> How about an interests page, then sub teams could evolve from that

<martin_wilson89> I can do that pak33m

<Bordy> good call mike

<pak33m> thats a great idea mike

<martin_wilson89> An interests page sounds really good

<Bordy> but in the prelims, I think infrastructure is lacking so we may as well knock that oot

<martin_wilson89> What do you mean Bordy?

<Bordy> Basically that I need help lol

<martin_wilson89> lol

<Mike_F> I think we should fix the dates like 1st & 3rd Sunday instead of bi-weekly is less confusing

<pak33m> can everybody participating now agree to help help ...to start this up

<Bordy> mailing list is ok, but if someone else were watching it and LP they could add/remove members from the wiki, etc

<Bordy> right mike, def less confusin

<martin_wilson89> Yeah we generally meet Sundays anyway

<pak33m> would everybody agree to 1st & 3rd sundays

<Mike_F> yes

<martin_wilson89> Yes

<pak33m> anybody else

<lando> i do

<Mike_F> rey276, are you interested in marketing ?

<Bordy> hey lando!

<lando> just got in

<martin_wilson89> What's up lando

<lando> not much martin_wilson89

<reya276> sorry I had to go check up on my kid

<pak33m> ok cool then we will meet up every 1st & 3rd sunday until we get the sub teams established

<reya276> yes I'm interested in Marketing, I have the necessary skills for it

<martin_wilson89> So are we doing an interests page?

<reya276> 1st and 3rd sounds good

<Mike_F> reya276, good I guess we are the marketing sub team for now

<martin_wilson89> And if so, are we getting rid of current sub teams and starting over?

<pak33m> would anybody be intertested in keeping the biweekly meeting even after we get sorted

<reya276> but their should still be a email reminder though

<Bordy> alright- so what I was sayin was I need to at least get some infrastructure help soon... Wiki, *meetings*, LP/mailer, etc

<martin_wilson89> I can help

<martin_wilson89> I think support team will be a little slow at first

<martin_wilson89> So I can do those two for now

<Mike_F> Support functions Bordy, it's all you

<reya276> support as in tech support?

<martin_wilson89> Yeah

<reya276> or support for the team

<pak33m> lets move into creating the sub teams

<Bordy> martin: I am already pretty proud of the new user page, so unless we wanna chane it a lot it could be tabled a while

<Mike_F> support for the team

<pak33m> is everybody good to start with Wiki Maintenance

<pak33m> Education / New User

<pak33m> Marketing

<pak33m> Meetings

<Mike_F> anyone who actual wants to do that has my blessing

<martin_wilson89> Sounds good pak33m

<reya276> ok I would like to do some marketing

<pak33m> the wiki mait has bordy & me on it so far...who else

<martin_wilson89> What infrastructure team needs members the most

<martin_wilson89> Meetings or wiki

<Bordy> meetings and wiki, really

<pak33m> were starting with it...the wiki maint team where bordy needs help tyhe most

<Mike_F> reya276, go ahead and sign up we can talk later in the week

<martin_wilson89> I can do wiki

<martin_wilson89> I'll sign up now

<pak33m> cool

<pak33m> anybody else for the wiki mait

<martin_wilson89> In future sub team meetings will we lay out individual objectives for each team?

<Mike_F> Sub teams should maintain the applicable pages themselves

<Bordy> mike-f very true. This is general wiki stuff

<pak33m> yes each team will mait their page

<martin_wilson89> OK

<pak33m> and agendas will be created for each team

<martin_wilson89> Ouch

<pak33m> anybody else for the wiki mait

<Mike_F> That way it's less work for the "Team Staff"

<martin_wilson89> Ouch @ dropped connection, not for any plans

<Bordy> ugh

<pak33m> we want to think of this whole thing as a collaborated effort

<Bordy> fire teams

<pak33m> anybody else for the wiki mait

<pak33m> going once...twice

<Mike_F> gone

<pak33m> ok for the wiki mait we have bordy, me & martin

<Bordy> should be plenty for now

<pak33m> ok the education /new user team has bordy, martin & me

<pak33m> anybody else interested

<pak33m> ok, well well stick to that then

<pak33m> ok marketing we have mike & reya276

<pak33m> is that it for marketing

<Mike_F> were rolling

<pak33m> cool

<pak33m> lando are you intertesed here

<pak33m> in marketing that is

<Bordy> lando = good with pictures

<lando> sure pak33m

<pak33m> ok just checkin

<Mike_F> good we need someone good with pictures

<pak33m> so marketing wil be mike, rays276 & lando

<Bordy> we need to drag xzai away from the bottle so he can come draw for us lol

<Mike_F> cool

<pak33m> meeting i think we have martin is this right

<pak33m> meetings i menat

<Bordy> and me, if you could add me

<martin_wilson89> Uh I wouldn't be comfortable with a third team

<Bordy> can't edit the wiki on this

<martin_wilson89> I could switch from Wiki to Meetings since there are less members for Meetings

<martin_wilson89> I'm fine with either, whatever needs more help

<pak33m> i would like it as well

<Mike_F> What is meetings, just recording the minutes ?

<Mike_F> or are "events" included

<Bordy> scroll up ;)

<Bordy> I need help setting/following agendas and holding meetings

<Bordy> not to mention minutes, yeah

<Bordy> events like the expo could likely be handled by marketing, if you wanted em

<Mike_F> it's keep the wiki kind of part of that ?

<martin_wilson89> That makes more since, imo

<pak33m> meeting will have more of an agenda soon i.e. constructing and organzing meetings bot in irc and pssoible meet ups

<Mike_F> events and marketing are the same

<Bordy> sweet

<Mike_F> Like that Software Freedom Day thing

<Mike_F> could be an event

<Mike_F> which requires marketing

<martin_wilson89> I could switch from Wiki to Meetings since the Wiki will be maintained per-group to an extent

<pak33m> the foucs of meeting will mostly be minutes and organzing the actual irc and in person meet ups

<martin_wilson89> I think I'd prefer that, so I'm going to switch my membership on the Wiki sub-team pages

<Bordy> we have agenda ADD too

<pak33m> not ot get into the latter topic right now

<reya276> Software Freedom Day, when is this happening

<Mike_F> It's Sept 15, I put a link on our marketing page

<pak33m> so, for meetings we have bordy, martin & me

<reya276> ok great

<pak33m> is that right

<Bordy> dammit I keep gettin booted

<pak33m> and martin youre coming off the wiki mait for meetings

<reya276> Maketing, Mike, lando and I

<martin_wilson89> Yeah pak33m

<Mike_F> yes

<reya276> sweet

<pak33m> lets opn it up to discuss any other possble subteams that we could create but lets just brainstorm a bit

<reya276> ok, I got to go put this Kid to bed, please Mike fill me in on the conclusion of this meeting tomorrow morning, I'm in to 
work at 7am and can usually chat up untill 9am or so

<Mike_F> reya276: okay

<reya276> or just drop me an email

<reya276> c-u guys

<pak33m> reya check the minutes latez as well

<reya276> ok will do

<martin_wilson89> I was thinking administration team, but it sounds like Meetings will take care of that. The administration team 
would do things like check memberships, welcome new members and inform them of how we're organized etc.

<pak33m> ok maybe we should just stick with the teams we have now

<pak33m> erbody agree

<Bordy> I do have one thing re: interests as teams. They ned to be logical in relation to a loco, in that for example a security 
team or programming team wouldn't really fit... A loco's goal is local support and advocacy. If we were in a non english country, 
maybe translation for example

<martin_wilson89> I agree pak33m, I also agree Bordy

<pak33m> lets open it up then for a quick one

<Bordy> that took forever to type lol

<pak33m> yikes

<martin_wilson89> lol freaking blackberries

<Bordy> Sorry lol

<pak33m> anybody?

<Bordy> hmm

<pak33m> ok lets move on then

<martin_wilson89> Well like I said adminstration but if I'm correct meetings will take care of that? Maybe change the semantics to 
Meetings/Adminstration?

<pak33m> have we lost anybody ?

<Mike_F> Meetings/Administration shoulds good

<Mike_F> sounds good,

<Bordy> Your admin ropes in a few different things, incl new user support. I like it, maybe name new user to admin and I will give 
you LP and mailer access for wiki editing of roster and whatnot

<Mike_F> lazy typing

<martin_wilson89> Bordy: By new user support do you mean new members of the group? Or new local Ubuntu users

<pak33m> maybe we should table adding new teams

<Bordy> this is more adjusting current ones before getting too far in, but I agree

<Bordy> martin: either

<pak33m> ok cool lets get into establishing team leaders

<pak33m> everybody comfortable with that?

<martin_wilson89> Sure

<Mike_F> ok

<Bordy> sho nuff

<pak33m> firstly, i would like ot ask everybodys definition of a team leader for the sub teams

<martin_wilson89> Sets up agenda/place to go to for team-specific questions?

<martin_wilson89> agenda as in team-specific agenda

<Bordy> Would assume kinda like me here, no real authority but I try to guide in the direction we need to go

<Mike_F> exactly

<martin_wilson89> Yeah because hopefully teams can become self sustaining

<Bordy> I do think we need to hold monthly sorts of conclaves with just team leaders, to make sure we're on the same page

<Mike_F> I will lead the marketing team until anyone else wants to

<Bordy> smaller meets, easier to control

<pak33m> i agree with you all and would add that the team leaders should have a resoniblity to address their agendas, etc. at 
meetings

<Bordy> yeah

<martin_wilson89> Bordy: sounds cool about leader meet ups

<Bordy> alpha platoon! REeeeeport!

<Bordy> first squad... All present

<pak33m> FALL IN

<Bordy> lol

<pak33m> ready on the left

<martin_wilson89> I would like to lead the new user team if no one else is interested

<Mike_F> Let's not go overboard with this thing, let try to do a little real work too

<Bordy> you'd be good for it

<martin_wilson89> I'd be a great Wal-Mart greater :)

<martin_wilson89> *greeter

<Bordy> mike good point, but trust me this part is important, its hard for me to do all of it

<pak33m> sorry miss those good old days

<Mike_F> good Martin has that team

<Mike_F> chris should take the other two and then we are done for now

<Bordy> pak whatcha want, wikis or meets?

<pak33m> i can take meetings

<pak33m> ok so

<Bordy> k, then I default to wiki maintenance, and we're golden

<pak33m> marketing team leader is mike

<martin_wilson89> Sweet, organization

<pak33m> meetings team leader is me

<pak33m> new user team leader is martin

<pak33m> 'wiki is bordy

<pak33m> this is great

<pak33m> everybody agree here?

<martin_wilson89> I like these productive meetings, the last one was also

<Mike_F> Yes

<Bordy> if you guys could, go in yer pages tonight and flesh em out a bit. Cept mike, his is set

<pak33m> would everybody agree to end about here?

<Mike_F> yes

<martin_wilson89> Sounds good

<Bordy> sure

<Bordy> we got a lot done

<martin_wilson89> Yeah

<pak33m> ill work on getting us caught up in the plan of action for the next meeting

<Mike_F> lando, just harass me on this channel when you want to talk about marketing stuff

<pak33m> we should at least work throught the plan of action to gets better grounded

<Mike_F> what's left for tonite

<pak33m> well really we can stop becase were halfway through the plan of action

<pak33m> unless you all want to proceed

<martin_wilson89> Sounds fine with me, this was very productive

<Mike_F> i will try to hang in,

<pak33m> yes i agree

<Bordy> I'm down

<pak33m> bordy wanna go on or quit

<pak33m> oops sorry

<Bordy> will be home and on a comp soon too

<pak33m> ok lets move on then

<martin_wilson89> Awesome

<pak33m> are we agreeing to move on or quit

<Mike_F> bordy are you driving ?

<martin_wilson89> I was thinking we were agreeing to move on in the agenda in this meeting

<Bordy> may as well keep goin ;)

<Bordy> wife is driving

<pak33m> ok cool here we go...

<Bordy> mike how irresponsible do you think I am? Lol

<pak33m> then next item up for bid is a possible "Live" meet up

<Mike_F> They do call them "Crackberries"

<Bordy> tricky proposal

<Bordy> lol mike

<martin_wilson89> That would be very cool, the EOCC meetup was interesting and made the loco feel much less like a BF2 clan (jk)

<martin_wilson89> Well kidding to an extent

<pak33m> i know that it has been discussed and we could go all over the place about this but i wanted to dicuss this with ppl that 
are really interetsed in our teeam

<Mike_F> Orlando Airport ?

<Bordy> brb

<pak33m> lets start with what would the meet up entail?

<martin_wilson89> Sounds good pak33m

<Bordy> wed have to regionalize it

<pak33m> i feel that a "live" meet up would allow us to meet, get aquainted and break donw the barriers

<martin_wilson89> Would we discuss team stuff

<martin_wilson89> or focus more on socializing as a group, such as introduction, personal plans etc.

<Bordy> central fl would work, but miami and tally would get screwed

<pak33m> this would help us in further coming together as and acting as a team

<Bordy> social meets are good, minor business talk would ensue

<pak33m> well, we would have to socialize becasue that's what we do as humans

<martin_wilson89> Well yeah lol

<pak33m> im just saying that it cant hurt

<pak33m> then we could discuss team and sub-team stuff

<martin_wilson89> I'm not discouraging, I think that's the best thing a live meetup can do

<pak33m> learn from each other about what it is were doing this for -0 Ubuntu

<martin_wilson89> Because we can actually do things on IRC, but I've only met Mike and Chris in person and that was briefly

<martin_wilson89> IRC doesn't introduce people etc.

<Bordy> I met eldo at a bar if that counts

<martin_wilson89> Haha

<pak33m> oh, the -O makes it opauquely-readable...lol

<pak33m> ok bad joke

<martin_wilson89> lol

<Bordy> yarr

<pak33m> anyway

<pak33m> maybe somebody could come up with a subject & school us

<pak33m> or give a lecture

<Bordy> pak33m the meetup is something that will take a gang of planning, and will have to most likely be in tampa or otown

<martin_wilson89> Who was on the mailing list about Python education?

<martin_wilson89> That sounded really cool

<Bordy> statik

<martin_wilson89> But may not reach out to everyone

<Bordy> he's a damned genius

<pak33m> so we know what we wanna meet up to do..

<Bordy> right

<pak33m> would we all agree that the meetup would happen either in orlando or tampa

<Mike_F> What about the Software Freedom Day thing

<martin_wilson89> Sounds good pak33m

<Mike_F> that could give the meeting a theme

<Bordy> we need to explore that mike, it could be great

<Mike_F> maybe even a purpose too

<pak33m> we could table that as a meet up

<martin_wilson89> I read into that a little and it sounded really good, a lecture on that would be very interesting & useful for 
the team to do something

<Bordy> yeah

<martin_wilson89> Plus we have time, it's in September right?

<Mike_F> I will see if I can some kind of support from my business contacts in Orlando and Cocoa Beach

<Mike_F> Like the kind that is free

<Bordy> yeah. But I really wanna get one more event down, and our app roadmap fleshed out some, so we can get approved /before/ 
sept

<pak33m> anything that can get us educated in the subject of Ubuntu (with no -O this time)

<pak33m> would be worth the meet up even if its not offical

<pak33m> meet up

<pak33m> im fading here

<martin_wilson89> What do we need to do before we get approved?

<martin_wilson89> Is it possible before september?

<Bordy> yeah, motion to go to bed. Second?

<Mike_F> Second

<Bordy> yeah it is martin. Jono said one or two more events, and a thicker roadmap

<pak33m> me too...sorry its been a lon, long daddys day

<martin_wilson89> Bed sounds fine with me

<pak33m> one more thing

<Mike_F> I think we got a lot done tonight

<Bordy> yeah we did

<pak33m> oops that was meant for my wife

<Bordy> thanks for comin out folks

<pak33m> no prob

<pak33m> im audi

<Mike_F> later people

<martin_wilson89> Talk to you all later

* ** ChanServ sets mode: +o bordy_laptop

* ** bordy_laptop changes topic to "Good Meeting on Sub Teams, everybody! Thanks to all who attended, it was very productive. | 
Please sign up for your preferred team on the wiki!"

* ** ChanServ sets mode: -o bordy_laptop
