{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page will serve as a Hub for the Education/New Users team. Please feel free to edit it as you wish.

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/NewUser|New Users Page]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===
Feel free to edit this as you please, this is just a starting point. -
* Provide localized support
** Numbers on business cards?
** Possibly an install fest at some point, the administration of this would be the marketing team but we could play a central part in lectures and support for visitors to the event
* A support sign up module.  New users fill out a form to get support, members of this sub-team receive the support request and offer to provide 1 on 1 support. OhioTeam does this already.
* If I understand Chris correctly, this sub-team will also support new members of this loco??  If so:
** Provide guidance to new members of the team, explain our sub-teams etc.
** Greet new members to the team.
* Maybe focus the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/NewUser|New Users Page]]</nowiki> more to our Loco?  It's a really good page now, but it seems focused more on support in general.  New users who are looking to the Florida loco for support are most likely looking for something more personal?

=== Welcome Message ===
New members will receive the FloridaTeam/WelcomeMessage.  Please edit as seen fit.

=== Sign-up ===
Please add your name to the list below if you are interested in helping with this team!
* ChrisRohde
* MartinWilson
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/pak33m|pak33m]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ElementC|ElementC]]</nowiki>
