{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Planet Ubuntu-Florida ==

The <nowiki>[[http://www.planetplanet.org|Planet]]</nowiki> is an blog aggregation tool. <nowiki>[[http://florida.ubuntu-us.org/planet|The Planet Ubuntu Florida]]</nowiki> site is for the members of the Ubuntu Florida LoCo team to share their thoughts and ideas. 

The rules for getting added to the site are pretty easy:

# Keep the content published there rated 'PG' as we are a family friendly group.
# We want to keep the Planet Ubuntu and F/OSS centric. As long as it's not abused other topics will not be discouraged.
# We have no wish to censor anyone's views. However if there are enough valid complaints we may have to take action on them. Also, if a feed is inaccessible, flooding the site, or otherwise causing technical issues we may have to remove the feed.  
# To be considered for publication on the site you must be a member of the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-florida|Launchpad Florida Team]]</nowiki>. 
# In order to get onto the site, please email <nowiki>[[mailto:dantrevino+planet@gmail.com|Dan Trevino]]</nowiki> (Preferably from your Launchpad email contact address). Include the following information and attach your <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hackergotchi|hackergotchi]]</nowiki> if you have one:
** `http://www.yoursite.org/~yourname/blog/?flav=rss` # Your Blog **Feed**, _NOT_ your Blog Site
** name = Your Name # How you want your name presented on the Planet
** face = yname.png # Your hackergotchi icon
** facewidth = 70 # If you know, otherwise we'll adjust as needed
** faceheight = 74 # If you know, otherwise we'll adjust as needed
1. This is still a work in progress. Rules and requirements may change on feedback from the team. 
