{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pak33m> START MEETING

<pak33m> can i get a show of hands?

<Catsceo> *claps*

<dantalizing> -

<bodycoach2> bodycoach2/Danny here

<mark007> Herro

<pak33m> ill give it just a min

<pak33m> for others

<Catsceo> I have something else to discuss later too

<pak33m> Cat: cool well open that up

* elcasey checks in

<pak33m> hey mark007 & elcasey

<pak33m> anybody else?

<bodycoach2> Pak33m/Jimmy? Did you go to Portland?

<pak33m> bodycoach2: yes, what a time!
<elcasey> i need to sign back up for the mailing list and launchpad...are the links on the LoCo wiki page?

<Catsceo> yes

<elcasey> cool

<bodycoach2> Did you get to visit the Free Geek mothership?

<elcasey> newp

<pak33m> elcasey: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=387138

<elcasey> oh, nm

<pak33m> bodycoach2: yes i wanna discuss that here

<pak33m> ok, jst so everybody knows our hero bordy will be here later

<Catsceo> yes

<Catsceo> :)

<pak33m> everybody can follow along with our agenda here http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=387138 but feel 
free to add on to the conv when were done

<elcasey> there's an agenda there?

<pak33m> i would like to run through each of the topics one-by-one

<pak33m> ooops sorry i meant here https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings

<elcasey> thx

<elementc> sorry I was late. what did I miss?

<pak33m> first topic is Discuss the promotion of Ubuntu/Linux/F(L)OSS amongst specific small businesses

<Catsceo> nothing much yet

<pak33m> elementc: hiya

<elementc> thanks, Catseco. hi pakmaster

<pak33m> anybody wanna start with any ideas?

<Catsceo> yes

<bodycoach2> I've had some struggles with helping small business with Ubuntu

<elementc> My dad works at bob Steele Chevrolet. they're gonna fir their techs (porn on the servers or summat)

<elementc> I could get a job there and introduce it

<pak33m> bodycoach2: what struggles?

<bodycoach2> It's still interesting that techs wouldn't be smart enough to keep porn off work servers.

<Catsceo> When school starts around here I'm going to try to get in contact with the school board to see if I could 
get there old computers, put Ubuntu on them, and then give them to the needy

<ropetin> I put that on the agenda

<elementc> well, they were idiots. it was Wndows server 2000

<ropetin> I mean like to target a specific group (Real Estate Offices, Doctors, etc)

<bodycoach2> Catsceo.....that's what Free Geek's objective is

<Catsceo> ><

<ropetin> I have a school interested in me doing a LTSP project for them

<elementc> not doctors/dentists. htey have some specific windows-only databases

<pak33m> elemetc: you should get in there and take over!

<ropetin> Vetinary, I found a great Linux based package

<dantalizing> we had this discussion on gatorlug as well

<elementc> LTSP? maybe

<dantalizing> i moved one smal business to linux

<pak33m> i think the biggest ? is how to intro businesses to ubuntu, etc?

<dantalizing> they had some specialized windows software

<ropetin> Although it will be a charitable project on my part

<elementc> really? detils, please

<dantalizing> but i was able to run that on one of the local desktops

<elementc> mail em free cds

<bodycoach2> I've been working on getting some volunteer organizations to switch to Ubuntu

<dantalizing> and put linux on thier server

<dantalizing> so you can sometimes work aroudn the specialized apps

<bodycoach2> I think, if we can start at the volunteer org level, it will give businesses a model of operation to 
observe

<ropetin> Basically I think you have to offer someone a solution, rather than CDs or applications

<bodycoach2> Ropetin - exactly! They want assistance.

<pak33m> rop: yes im with you there but how would we do it...networking, schools?

<elementc> it's like chris dibona once said: You'll scare them off by pushing just one platform. push everything 
and things get interesting

<ropetin> Schools are good, although state ones are in MS pocket

<bodycoach2> Rop, Pak, there needs to be some sort of local support structure

<Catsceo> around here they all use Macs

<Catsceo> (Pasco)

<pak33m> bodycoach2: the volunteer level is a tremendous place to start considering the $ involved (or lack of it)

<elementc> ropetin: not really. SBBC has firfox/tunderbird on their ftp server, and about 25% are macs

<bodycoach2> Pak - exactly. Many simply don't have the funds to equipment, especially software prices

<elementc> most of the computrs in the school board building are RHEL 5

<pak33m> does anybody here do any technology consulting?

<bodycoach2> On Linuxtoday.com , there have been some good articles about Ubuntu/Linux in Law Offices

<dantalizing> pak i did in the past

<dantalizing> was looking to start up again

<elementc> pak3m: I maintain about 90 compters at a local elementary school

<ropetin> Law Offices are hard though, aren't they tied into Wordpoerfect?

<elementc> doesn't OO.o do word perfect?

<bodycoach2> OpenOffice will have to come up to Legal standards, before the local ones are accepting of Ubuntu as a 
solution

<ropetin> Well yes, but they use it for the interface apparently

<dantalizing> wordperfect used to be available on linux

<dantalizing> might be available somewhere

<bodycoach2> In Canada, many have already switched, but their stands are a bit different

<pak33m> dant: what would you say is the best approach to small businesses with ubuntu, open source, etc

<dantalizing> hit the servers first

<dantalizing> people love their desktops

<pak33m> elementc: perfect for introducing LTSP!

<dantalizing> its harder to get them to switch that

<dantalizing> servers get a foot in the door

<elementc> nah, It'd be a waste. they're all fairly powerful Pentium IVs.

<ropetin> Small places that don't use Active Directory?

<dantalizing> and make a desktop push easier later

<dantalizing> thats been my experience

<pak33m> rop: good point there

<bodycoach2> dant- I think another place is to look for new business, and work with them, instead of established 
businesses

<dantalizing> i havent seen small businesses using AD

<elementc> besides, they kinda have to use windows. some sorta educational program'

<bodycoach2> Business that have already set their operational standards are going to be VERY resistant to change

<elementc> unless a power failure brings the entire thing crashing around their pointy ears

<ropetin> I think a lot of places tht have had some kind of IT Consultant come in use AD, just because it was 
recommended

<bodycoach2> Self employeed, 1-5 person business, especially in the labor/house market are going to be more 
receptive to the costs savings with Ubuntu

<pak33m> bodycoach2: you mean networking (with ppl you know)

<dantalizing> and you can put a linux server into AD and allow single sign on...its a PITA, but it can be done

<ropetin> Email is a great place for Linux, because Exchange is sooo expensive

<bodycoach2> I'm mean- painters, plumbers, subcontractors, pool boy's, etc

<bodycoach2> lawn care

<pak33m> body: those are great ideas

<bodycoach2> 60% of businesses in USA are one person

<ropetin> dantalizing: Yeah, been there, done that, got the mental scars

<ropetin> But does a 3 man plumbing company need a

<ropetin> server?

<elementc> no, bt maybe a godd database server?

<bodycoach2> I'm not talking about a server.

<pak33m> rop: no, but they could save $ even with a pc with ubuntu

<bodycoach2> pak...exactly

<bodycoach2> established small businesses aren't too concerned with cutting costs with tech. ONE person business 
are greatly concerned with it

<ropetin> Good point

<bodycoach2> Instead of focusing on medium-small business and high tech, maybe we should focus on the sole-
proprietor types

<dantalizing> well, from my experience, those are mostly using online tools already....hosting, email, etc....so no 
chance to sell them free for something they already get free

<bodycoach2> low-tech, so to speak

<dantalizing> "those" = small, 1 - 3 person businesses

<ropetin> 3-10?

<bodycoach2> You're right Dant....nevermind. Bad idea, I guess

<elementc> hi

<bodycoach2> What was I thinking?

<elementc> sorry.

<bodycoach2> Hey Elementc

<ropetin> I would love to get those 1 man companies away from having 'joeslawnservice6@yahoo.com' as their official 
email address. Maybe some kind of Linux based shared email hosting?

<elementc> bah. sis got my vnc password. ignore random stuff

<dantalizing> i vote we continue this discussion on the mailing list

<dantalizing> and move to the next item

<elementc> aye

<pak33m> i was considering setting up a projects page for everybody to contribute their experiences and work they 
have done with small busineses, etc. to keep track of what weve done for ppl

<dantalizing> good idea

<pak33m> ill work on it and we can fil it in as we like

<pak33m> ok, next topic

<dantalizing> ropetin: there are a lot of places they can use their own domain and use other hosting

<dantalizing> my wife and I use google, for instance

<elementc> me 2

<dantalizing> google hosted

<bodycoach2> danny@coachdanny.net goest to my yahoo account

<elementc> ElementC@elementCmedia.net goes to me.

<elementc> and sadfhasddfosdafi@elementcmedia.net goes to me, too.

<bodycoach2> I need to learn to speak mail server first...lol

<elementc> matter of fact, anything @ elementCmedia.net ends up in my inbox.

<pak33m> ...one more thing on the 1st topic: i posted some links in the agenda for canonical partners in case we 
run into somebody interested in getting the support and for a session i was at ubutntu live in about becoming a 
partner with canonical...in case youre interested

<elementc> wiat... get any swag?

<pak33m> ok, next topic...

<pak33m> Discuss getting involved in events for the Ubuntu Florida team (these events may help get us approved as 
an official team)

<elementc> what kinda events

<pak33m> elementc: not much pens, pamphlets,

<pak33m> Free Geek Central Florida project - What could we contribute? The Free Geek presentation at the Ubuntu 
Live conference.

<pak33m> http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=387124

<pak33m> Software Freedom Day - At GatorLUG or anywhere else and how to get involved?

<pak33m> http://softwarefreedomday.org/

<pak33m> Barcamp Orlando - What will we contribute and who will be attending form the Ubuntu Florida team?

<pak33m> http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=515771

<pak33m> http://barcamporlando.org/

<pak33m> just a few but we can open it up to others

<dantalizing> FreeGeek first?

<Catsceo> I could bundle CDs with bikes that are givin away at my godfathers meets

<pak33m> also, the more events that we attend and contribute to the easier it will to get our team approved (which 
is one of our goals)

<pak33m> dant: sure Free Geek 1st

<Catsceo> and teh room goes silent ;)

<dantalizing> bodycoach:?

<bodycoach2> I'm here...looking at the barcamp page

<bodycoach2> I think I can make that

<dantalizing> what are we gonna do about freegeek?

<elementc> I'm out of this part. no participation until after schools

<bodycoach2> This next semester, the Capstone class at Valencia Community College is going to make it an official 
Free Geek

<pak33m> bodycoach2: you wanna intro free geek?

<bodycoach2> Okay.

<bodycoach2> Easiest thing: check out http://freegeek.org

<bodycoach2> and http://wiki.freegeek.org

<bodycoach2> We take in older and/or broken hardware, rebuild and refurbish it, then give it out to people who need 
a computer, but can't afford one

<bodycoach2> FreeGeekCentralFlorida.org will work a bit like the Chicago chapter, at first

* Catsceo will help

<bodycoach2> Till we get a centralized storage location, what I'd like to do it have a "Free Geek Field Agent" 

program

<bodycoach2> On online database of parts that we can help out each other with, if necessary

<pak33m> body: what does free geek install as an os

<bodycoach2> The FGCF website should be up by September 10th, as it will be done by the capstone class

<bodycoach2> Xubuntu on most machines, since the ones we get are usually 500 MHz - 900MHz, and Ubuntu on anything 
better

<bodycoach2> http://freegeekchicago.org uses Xubuntu exclusively, just to keep it consistent

<bodycoach2> We try to make sure machines go out with at least 256 mg, and at least a 10 gig hard drive

<pak33m> body: does freegeek provide any support for the hw it donates?

<pak33m> and sw?

<elementc> I'll brb. gotta burn me a CD of the x86 ubuntu

<bodycoach2> Yes....one year support. And, if they can't fix hardware within 15 minutes, they just trade it out for 
another machine --- For FREE. Beat that Geek Squat!

<pak33m> body: how does our team get involved?

<bodycoach2> The Portland Oregon Free Geek original site has an incredible system

<Catsceo> I would like to help get a subtem of FGCF started here in Tampa

<Catsceo> subteam*

<bodycoach2> I'd like to have a tread on the forum for people to volunteer; hardware work, support work, etc

<bodycoach2> I'd like to try to set up an online support team

<bodycoach2> The best part of this project: You get to keep the best of the equipment!

<pak33m> body: maybe we could add our involement with free geek to the propsed project page? what do you think?

<Catsceo> yo qrprat11

<bodycoach2> Yes...please

<bodycoach2> It's extremely easy to start this on a personal level, folks

<bodycoach2> 1. Tell everyone what you're doing, and what Free Geek is about

<bodycoach2> 2. Be ready for the onslaught of hardware you'll get

<bodycoach2> 3. Find people who need equipment

<pak33m> in case anybody is interested there was a presentation of free geek and bworks at ubuntu live that was 
very inspiring http://www.ubuntulive.com/cs/ubuntu/view/e_sess/14612

<dantalizing> sweet

<Catsceo> body: when school starts around here I'll get in contact with the school board to get there old PCs and 
Macs

<Catsceo> their*

<bodycoach2> Also, check out the ACCRC, the original organization: http://www.accrc.org/

<bodycoach2> They did a pretty sweet cluster computer, made out completely of donated parts

<dantalizing> if we start out as individuals, do we need to file for non-profit status? or do we fall under an 
umbrella organization?

<bodycoach2> A "Free" 27 GHz supercomputer, so to speak

<pak33m> cool weve got some projects to all et involed with

<bodycoach2> Umbrella

<bodycoach2> FGCF (freegeekcentralflorida) will have to start off that way
<pak33m> lets all agree to add your em all to the projects page

<Catsceo> agreed

<bodycoach2> We'll probably maintain a team of "Field Agents"

<Catsceo> link?

<bodycoach2> What's an "em"?

<pak33m> well, the project page is just proposed but i can have it on our wiki soon

<pak33m> em or them

<Catsceo> hmm, k

<pak33m> sorry im form sanford thats how we say it

<bodycoach2> oh....add 'em all.....

<dantalizing> regarding SFD, gatorlug is doing a SFD here in gainesville

<pak33m> body: thats it

<dantalizing> we're gonna help them out

<dantalizing> poningru has basically said they need all the help they can get

<bodycoach2> W're moving on to Software Freedom Day now?
<pak33m> lets get on to talking about Software Freedom Day http://softwarefreedomday.org/ and how we can get 

involed http://softwarefreedomday.org/helping

<elementc> I hope so. this is getting less fun

<dantalizing> i thought the "<pak33m> lets all agree to add your em all to the projects page" was a segue

<bodycoach2> I hearby give an Aussi thanks to Pia Waugh!

<pak33m> dant: yeah somethin like that

<dantalizing> anyway...i suggest y'all look for a SFD in your area

<dantalizing> and see if you can volunteer....as a representative of ubuntu-florida

<pak33m> can anybody into SFD and intro ideas for it

<dantalizing> http://softwarefreedomday.org/

<bodycoach2> http://softwarefreedomday.org/about

<poningru> sorry

<dantalizing> last year gatorlug handed out Linux in front of BooksAMillion

<pak33m> dant: whats going on with gatorllug and SFD

<poningru> here

<poningru> taking a nap

<poningru> err took a nap

<dantalizing> this year, poningru says we're doing an installfest

<pak33m> poningru: hey

<poningru> yeah last year it was basically the same

<poningru> I would like to encourage you guys to do the same though

<poningru> do something... anything

<bodycoach2> I talk up SFD mostly be emphasizing the idea of support Free Speech with it

<bodycoach2> And how Software Freedom and Free Speech go together

<Catsceo> I'll put up banners/fliers around my 'hood

<pak33m> would sfd be a place(s) for a meet up?

<poningru> pak33m: well it would be more a place to showcase free software

<pak33m> should we setup an ubuntu florida tent!

<pak33m> pon: well, at least we'd meet up by being there together

<dantalizing> http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/FL

<dantalizing> nobody listed in florida :(

<pak33m> should we add SFD to our proposed project page?

<dantalizing> yes

<bodycoach2> Aye

<pak33m> dant:we should add us to that page

<dantalizing> i'm editing now :)

<pak33m> dant: awesome!!

<poningru> dantalizing: no dude it goes USA

<poningru> then FL

<pak33m> ok, unless anybody has anymore about SFD lets move on to talk about barcamp

<dantalizing> this doesnt exist either:

<dantalizing> http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/america/USA/FL/Gainesville

<bodycoach2> Maybe, one of us can try to contact Pia about what we can do

<dantalizing> where it was last year

<dantalizing> poningru: i'll leave it to you or jli to update

<bodycoach2> Ah! We could set up something at local community colleges?

<bodycoach2> Barcamp it is

<poningru> http://softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/FL/Gainesville

<poningru> wtf

<poningru> soo weird

<pak33m> can we get a show of hands for people that plan on attending barcamp and what your plans are there?

* Catsceo shows half a hand

* dantalizing will talk about openmoko

<Catsceo> depending on my grades and how may absences I've had at school, I may go

<bodycoach2> I've decided I'll try to go, and discuss Free Geek

<pak33m> i'll be there but acting as the room wallflower

<Catsceo> ha

<poningru> unfortunately I cannot come to orlando

<poningru> too far away :(

<bodycoach2> I live about 12 minutes away

<pak33m> i work about 1 mile from the place

<dantalizing> gotta run yall

* ** dantalizing is now known as dantalizing_afk

<bodycoach2> I don't work right now (bowing head in disgrace)...looking for a part-time job

<bodycoach2> A+ Certi...2006 Objectives!

<Catsceo> are you guys SURE that a minor (me) will be able to attend? I watched the videos of past barcamps and it 
looked like scantily clad women, beer, and geeks partying

<pak33m> so, its from 1 pm - 10 pm? whos gonna go when?

<pak33m> Catsceo: not sure but we can find out

<bodycoach2> Did this place used to be "Chapters" used bookstore in College Park??

<Catsceo> I don't want to drag my mom to Orlando just to be thrown out because I wasn't drinking age :(

<pak33m> Catsceo: i think it would be all ages

<pak33m> Catsceo: at least Mom could have adrink

<Catsceo> eek!

<pak33m> anybody else presenting there, etc?
<bodycoach2> I'm going to register to present

<pak33m> would we all agree to add barcamp to the proposed project page?

<Catsceo> YES

<pak33m> ok, lets move on to the next topic

<bodycoach2> aye

<pak33m> Translate the message provided by the Ubuntu Live conference and discuss how it can help the Ubuntu 
Florida team in achieving the goals it has set forth
<Catsceo> "Translate"?

<elementc> sorry, wifi died.

<elementc> I'm outa here. post the minutes when done.

<elementc> (please)

<bodycoach2> What's the message, and what language was it originally in?

<bodycoach2> Ya Gavaroo Pa-ruski

<Catsceo> Czech maybe?

<Catsceo> :P

<pak33m> the message was how how to get teams together

<Catsceo> oooh

<pak33m> sorry im fading (long day at the beach)

<bodycoach2> Teams across USA?

<pak33m> yes

<bodycoach2> How does the European teams work?

<pak33m> the message was also about how to advocate the use of ubuntu

<bodycoach2> T-Shirts!

<pak33m> in business, technical, etc.

<bodycoach2> Sticker for cars...like the Apple logo sticker

<pak33m> no t-shirts - i wish

<pak33m> got lots of stickers

* Catsceo ants a sticker :<

<pak33m> leads into the next topic

<Catsceo> wants*....

<pak33m> Discuss the summary of the Ubuntu US Teams meeting on July 28 https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/Minutes/
July28Formal, how to apply the ideas dicsussed into the Ubuntu Florida team and the recent US Teams activity to get 
needed state LoCo teams started

<bodycoach2> My girlfriend wears an Ubuntu thong: http://www.cafepress.com/ubuntushop.14580695

<pak33m> f you go to that link there were topics discussed that we can use for our team

<pak33m> body: nice!

<Catsceo> body: oh my

<pak33m> i gotta get the baby bib

<pak33m> for the baby that is

<Catsceo> body: pix plz (j/k :P )

<pak33m> we discussed recruitment at LUGs, schools, etc

<bodycoach2> I'm going to get an Ubuntu Golf Shirt, as soon as I get a job, that is (HINT, HINT)

<Catsceo> :D

<pak33m> hey bordy

<bordy> heyo.

<Catsceo> yoyoyo bordy

<bordy> wow, 20 nicks

<bodycoach2> Man...that Bordy guy is such a putz///// OH! Hey bordy

<bordy> heyo danny :-P

<pak33m> bordy: you showed jst when things were fading

<bodycoach2> We're on the topic of Ubuntu thongs

<pak33m> at least i am

<bordy> Sorry I missed it all, got stupid company open

<bordy> over

<bordy> not open

<bordy> so many non-floridians in here throwin off our numbers! ;)

<pak33m> so, i think that we should move to the last topic which is to here it for new members - we have a few

<bodycoach2> We could give out condoms with Ubuntu disks, like Free Geek Vancouver does: http://
freegeekvancouver.org/en/v/sfu/

<pak33m> and theyre not no the non-floridians

<Catsceo> me me me me!!!

<pak33m> Catsceo: go

<bordy> hey bodycoach2 I may need your help soon

<bodycoach2> To quote John Kerry, "Help is on the way."

<Catsceo> I'm going to get incontact with the school board around here to get there old computers (I already said 
this, I know)

<bodycoach2> "Bonesmen are behind you!"

<Catsceo> and redistribute in the poor areas

<bodycoach2> Cat....let me know if you do

<bordy> catsceo: think they'll give em up? If they do, that bodes well for the rest of the states school boards

<bodycoach2> they will want data destruction assurance: http://freegeekvancouver.org/en/data_destruction

<poningru> Catsceo: there is dignity project here in g'ville that does something similar

<Catsceo> body: I will, I was hoping to do it with FGCF

<Catsceo> bordy: I hope so

<bodycoach2> Most schools put there stuff on http://publicsurplus.com

<bordy> hey catsceo just realized you arent picked up by any sub teams yet ;)

* bordy cackles

<pak33m> Catsceo: yr choice

<pak33m> Marketing

<pak33m> Wiki Maintenance

<pak33m> Education and New User Support

<pak33m> Meeting Team

<Catsceo> hmm

<bordy> coughmeetingteamcough

<bodycoach2> bordy, my irc nick needs to change

<pak33m> or new team?

<bodycoach2> in the roster wiki

<Catsceo> would a new team be in order tho?

<bordy> bodycoach2: go ahead and change it :-P
<pak33m> Catsceo: its open

<bodycoach2> Opps....I think I deleted it

<bodycoach2> all of it

<Catsceo> body: what team are you on?

<bordy> pretty much all of them

<bordy> I was doing it all myself til we added some teams

<Catsceo> body, not bordy :P

<bordy> but pak33m took over a lot of the burden for me

<pak33m> bordy: ah thanks

<bordy> I heart me some pak33m

<bodycoach2> Not sure. I was on the University of GA's mens gymnastics team in the 80's

<bodycoach2> Looks like I'm going to have to learn how to edit a wiki

<Catsceo> would a team thats goal was to basically JSUT work with FGCF and Ubuntu-florida be a good idea?

<Catsceo> just*

<pak33m> bordy: btw i proposed creating a project page for all of our projects like our events page but a place to 
add individual projects with the team goals in mind

* Catsceo can't spell for SH!T today

<bordy> pak33m: sweet, anybody besides me on the wiki team?

<bordy> or should I create that page later tonight? lol

<bodycoach2> I have to go everyone. Thanks for the meeting and cooperating with FGCF!

<bordy> adios Danny

<bodycoach2> (Girlfriend taking Ubuntu thong off now)

<pak33m> the project page was inspired by this https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PNWTeam/projects/

<bodycoach2> later

<pak33m> i meet up with dan at the ubuntu live conf who created that page

<bordy> dshufelt?

<pak33m> yep

<bordy> sweet.

* Catsceo wonders if anybody HEARD him.......

<pak33m> bordy: that guy is busy!

<bordy> Catsceo its not a bad idea

<Catsceo> very well, lets roll with it :)

<bordy> is there already an established freegeek in florida?

* bordy thinks we need a scribe, cause he doesnt wanna transcribe any more minutes

<bordy> lol

<pak33m> what?

<bordy> hey i gotta finish cooking, but I will bbiab... pak33m will you be around?

<pak33m> im gonna get some sleep long day at the beach...ok, maybe i ll be around

<Catsceo> danny said that he was a member of FGCF

<bordy> catsceo: he is prety much starting it

<bordy> bbiab

<Catsceo> ah

<pak33m> yeah there is a local free geek

* ** bordy is now known as bordy_away

<Catsceo> ok, NEW TEAM then

<pak33m> hey everybody

<pak33m> END MEETING
