{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
19:58 < jamesrfla> meeting in 2min
19:58 < Michelle_Qimo> hi all, I'm more-or-less paying attention
19:59 < mhall119> I'm more-or-less not
19:59  * jamesrfla is still in another meeting
20:00 < mhall119> which?
20:00 < jamesrfla> Ubuntu beginners team
20:01 < Michelle_Qimo> ooo, there's a beginner's team?  mhall119, should send that to Trev.
20:01 < mhall119> yeah, where is that?
20:01 < jamesrfla> #ubuntu-beginners
20:01 < dantalizing> cool
20:01 < Michelle_Qimo> ty jamesrfla
20:01 < mhall119> thanks
20:01 < jamesrfla> we used to be the Ubuntu forums Beginners team
20:02 < mhall119> I'll pass that along to trevor next time he's online
20:02 < jamesrfla> but since we are doing more than just the forum we decided to change our name
20:02 < jamesrfla> so are we going to have a meeting?
20:02 < mhall119> good for any beginning Ubuntu user right jamesrfla?
20:03 < jamesrfla> yeah we help beginners with Ubuntu
20:03 < Michelle_Qimo> awesome.  sounds right up his alley
20:03 < Michelle_Qimo> (and possibly mine, for that matter...)
20:03 < mhall119> dantalizing: are we having a meeting?
20:03 < mhall119> where's itnet7?
20:03 < dantalizing> mhall119: yup, we're supposed to be
20:03 < dantalizing> mhall119: i'm sure he's coming
20:04 < jamesrfla> I don't mind waiting a few min
20:04 < mhall119> slacking in the tennessee room again probably
20:04 < dantalizing> +1
20:04 < Michelle_Qimo> Dan, how's Smita?
20:04 < dantalizing> she's good
20:05 < dantalizing> she went swimming today
20:05 < Michelle_Qimo> good for her.  Feeling OK?
20:05 < dantalizing> yeah
20:05 < dantalizing> feeling good
20:05 -!- zzzzzZZZZzzz [n=ironman@173.13.33.65.cfl.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:05 < dantalizing> just ready to have the baby
20:05 < mhall119> how about you?
20:05 < Michelle_Qimo> good...  I'm anxiously awating news on his arrival.  be sure to let us know?
20:06 < dantalizing> Michelle_Qimo: will do
20:06 < dantalizing> mhall119: meh ... i have the easy part
20:06 < mhall119> I'm sure he'll be twittering from her bedside
20:06 < dantalizing> denting
20:06 < mhall119> dantalizing: for now you do
20:06 < dantalizing> she's telling me now she is full of energy
20:07 < jamesrfla> dantalizing: you are joined to the #ubuntu-meeting that is where we are having our meeting right now which should be finishing soon. We used to have it in the team channek
20:07 < itnet7> sorry
20:07 < itnet7> better late then never :-P
20:07 < dantalizing> depends on the situation
20:07 < jamesrfla> +1
20:08 < itnet7> So... according to the agenda
20:08 < itnet7> pak33m|work: is not here is he?
20:08 < jamesrfla> itnet7: you have the link to the meeting agenda?
20:09 < mhall119> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda
20:09 < itnet7> Thanks mhall119 you beat me to the punch :-)
20:10 < mhall119> happened to have it up already
20:10 < dantalizing> ooo... there's punch?
20:10 < itnet7> lol
20:10 < itnet7> So pak33m is actually in Colorado doing some work with his boss
20:10 < mhall119> dantalizing: there was
20:10 < itnet7> He put those items up
20:11 < mhall119> itnet7 and I already got there, so there's none left
20:11 < itnet7> but I wasn't in the Bird's of a Feather at the South East Linux Fest
20:11 < mhall119> he was online earlier today
20:11 < mhall119> nor were we
20:11 < itnet7> Oh, cool
20:11 < mhall119> :(
20:11 < itnet7> oh.. I thought maybe he filled you in
20:11 < itnet7> :-(
20:11 < mhall119> nope
20:11 < itnet7> Well we can move them to next week's agenda then
20:12 < itnet7> on to Youth Build Day!
20:12 < Michelle_Qimo> whoo hoo!
20:12 < Michelle_Qimo> mhall119, do you want this one, or me?
20:12 < itnet7> mhall119 and Michelle_Qimo you guys have the floor
20:12 < Michelle_Qimo> ok, so, youth build day...
20:12 < mhall119> all you
20:13 < Michelle_Qimo> we're targeting the 2nd or 3rd Saturday of August.
20:13 < Michelle_Qimo> still tossing around the idea for location... depends on how many east coasters want to participate
20:14 < Michelle_Qimo> but, the moral of the story is this...  we're going to have a build day, where we bring in disadvantaged youth, to mentor them through building machines - and one will go home with them.
20:14 -!- pak33m|work [n=pak33m|w@199.26.150.250] has quit [Read error: 110 (Connection timed out)]
20:14 < dantalizing> one youth will go home with them computers?
20:14 < mhall119> provided we can get enough machines
20:14 < dantalizing> or one computer will go home with them youths?
20:15 < Michelle_Qimo> dan - no, each kid will go home wiht a computer
20:15 < mhall119> dantalizing: that's the plan, we'll tether them to the computers
20:15 < itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/QBDays is the page I started for you guys
20:15 < Michelle_Qimo> we're hoping to get us more exposure to the community, and form bonds wiht the youth
20:15 < Michelle_Qimo> ooo, itnet7, thanks
20:15 < mhall119> thankt itnet7, there's a wiki page for that
20:16  * itnet7 has signed up :-)
20:16 < Michelle_Qimo> i see.  and we love ya for it.  :-)
20:16 < itnet7> This was going to possibly be held at the Library, eh?
20:16 < Michelle_Qimo> possibly
20:16  * jamesrfla has to go in 15MIn :( 
20:16 < mhall119> we can setup a meetup.org event for it too
20:17 < Michelle_Qimo> we're trying to get a feel for a where would work best for everyone
20:17 < itnet7> Nice!
20:17 < mhall119> which of course depends on who is interested in helping
20:17 < Michelle_Qimo> the TPA meetup in July should finalize plans for August.
20:17 < dantalizing> so you need us to sign up on the wiki page?
20:17 < Michelle_Qimo> or email me, either.
20:17 < mhall119> for now, until we get a meetup.org event
20:18 < mhall119> then you can RSVP on that
20:18 < itnet7> Sounds good!
20:18 < mhall119> also, if people could start rounding up some decent computers, we took most of our good ones to Tennessee
20:18 < mhall119> for teens, I'd like to have P4s
20:19 < Michelle_Qimo> yes, we're at a sudden shortage of computers.
20:19 < Michelle_Qimo> :-)  It's a good place to be!
20:19 < itnet7> I will see what I can do, sometimes at work they get rid of some good machines they shouldn't get rid of
20:20 < itnet7> like for blown caps
20:20 < itnet7> but then maddog_2009 will change them out
20:20 < itnet7> and the machine works great
20:20 < mhall119> once we know how many computers we'll have, we can figure out how many teens to bring in
20:20 < Michelle_Qimo> I will arrange pick-up times if I need to, just let me know
20:21 < itnet7> Maybe we can try and shoot for bringing some devices to the July meet-up
20:21 < mhall119> that would work
20:22 < Michelle_Qimo> that would be delightful
20:22 < itnet7> that way it gives us a chance to try and round up some hw
20:22 < itnet7> do you guys need any rack servers?
20:22 < mhall119> I see pak33m|work has left....
20:22 < jamesrfla> itnet7: free?
20:22 < itnet7> no for a million dollars
20:22 < itnet7> j/k
20:22 < itnet7> of course
20:22 < mhall119> itnet7: I could use a better web server for growingupfree.org
20:23 < itnet7> These are beasts, as Dan can atest to
20:23 < jamesrfla> itnet7: how many and what do they have?
20:23 < mhall119> ah, 3U?
20:23 < dantalizing> definitely not for home usage
20:23 < dantalizing> 2 u with loud fans
20:23 < mhall119> my server is colocated at tmragency.com
20:23 < MRCeltic> ok im here catching up on whats going on
20:23 < Michelle_Qimo> hi MRCeltic
20:24 < itnet7> It is on louder than any other IBM in the datacenter
20:24 < mhall119> they'd probably prefer I had something they could put on their racks, rather than the absurdly large tower I currently have
20:24 < itnet7> s/on/no
20:24 < itnet7> Oh, this one would work out great for you then!
20:24 < itnet7> I do have about 7 more 1u servers
20:24 < Michelle_Qimo> by absurdly large, he means weighs more than a preschooler.
20:24 < mhall119> cool, then I could use my old server as a Qimo box
20:24 < itnet7> and today I was told about a couple of more newer ones that I can score
20:25 < mhall119> sweet
20:25 < dantalizing> holy crap
20:25 < itnet7> some serious waste going on
20:25 < jamesrfla> free servers!!!!
20:25 < itnet7> jamesrfla: do you have a datacenter in your room?
20:25 < mhall119> itnet7: you should build a cloud
20:25 < itnet7> LOL
20:25 < mhall119> using VMWare, just for zoopster
20:26 < itnet7> I can barely afford the power for the server I'm running
20:26 < dantalizing> ew
20:26  * Michelle_Qimo does rain dance for clouds.
20:26 < itnet7> I was thinking of getting a sheevaplug
20:26 < itnet7> :-)
20:26 < jamesrfla> itnet7: sort of. I have about 5 desktops in my room
20:26 < itnet7> 3 watts
20:26 < jamesrfla> I want to get into data centers
20:27 -!- enjalot [n=enjalot@98.230.60.214] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:27 < mhall119> jamesrfla: you'll need a lock pick and some climbing rope...
20:27 < Michelle_Qimo> so...  that's the deal on the build day.  Any questions?
20:27 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
20:27 < mhall119> and a crossbow, don't ever forget the crossbow
20:27 < jamesrfla> only 16 so have to finish at my high school were I am getting all these tech certs. Then go to college then work in a data center
20:27 -!- enjalot [n=enjalot@98.230.60.214] has quit [Client Quit]
20:27 < itnet7> jamesrfla: +1
20:28 < itnet7> sounds like a plan
20:28 < mhall119> if anyone is interested in the build day, and can make it to the next Tampa meetup, you should attend
20:28 < jamesrfla> mhall119 more of get into working at data centers. But I would like to see a data cneter
20:28 < jamesrfla> *center
20:28 -!- enjalot [n=enjalot@98.230.60.214] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:28 < itnet7> jamesrfla: I can arrange a tour at ours, if your parents would like to take you over for a visit
20:28 < itnet7> It's in Rockledge
20:28 < mhall119> anyone can register with the meetup group here: http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux
20:28 < itnet7> so chaynie's not here?
20:29 < mhall119> I think we can send a mailing out to everyone about the next meetup day and time
20:29 < dantalizing> he said he'd be late
20:29 -!- Irssi: #ubuntu-us-fl: Total of 30 nicks [1 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 29 normal]
20:29 < dantalizing> about 30 mins
20:29 < MRCeltic> ok caught up
20:29 < dantalizing> iirc
20:29 < MRCeltic> hi Michelle_Qimo
20:29 < itnet7> we can save his till last then
20:29 < itnet7> dantalizing: GBJ?
20:29 < mhall119> with pak33m not here, there's not much left
20:29 < dantalizing> right so jono recently announced the next ubuntu global jam
20:30 < dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGlobalJam/
20:30 < jamesrfla> cool itnet7 but it is a 3 hour and 49min drive
20:30 < dantalizing> as was discussed at UDS, this is more a a combo/mix & match event
20:30 < dantalizing> rather than been *just* a bug jam or *just* a packaging jam
20:30 < dantalizing> we would do a combo or choose 1 to many jams
20:30 < itnet7> jamesrfla: pm
20:31 < dantalizing> i started a project
20:31 < dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/GlobalJam200910
20:31 < dantalizing> i would like to start talking about the kinds of things we want to do
20:32 < dantalizing> keep in mind we have FLS the 2nd weekend, then the release the 3rd or 4th weekend
20:32 < dantalizing> sorry..this would be october
20:32 < Michelle_Qimo> dantalizing: not sure what I can bring to the table, but I'm happy to help however possible
20:32 < mhall119> hence the 200910
20:32 < itnet7> gotcha
20:33 < mhall119> besided bugs and packages, what other jams are there?
20:33 < dantalizing> i'd like to gauge interest in doing a statewide single event vs the scattered local events
20:33 < dantalizing> mhall119: marketing/advocacy were suggested
20:33 < dantalizing> there is also documentation
20:33 < itnet7> that's really cool
20:33 < dantalizing> and translation
20:33 < MRCeltic> dantalizing: so are we talking orlando for the single event?
20:33 < itnet7> never thought about those other type of jams
20:34 < dantalizing> MRCeltic: we're in the idea gathering phase, so quite possibly
20:34 < Michelle_Qimo> a single event would be stellar, if we can pull it off
20:34 < MRCeltic> dantalizing: what kind of projects are you thinking about
20:34 < mhall119> if we do a single jam in Orlando, we should have it coincide with FLS, so those traveling from far away don't have to make 2 trips
20:34 < enjalot> i'm sorry I wasn't here, when is the qimu build day going to be?
20:35 < dantalizing> MRCeltic: i'm thinking bug, packaging, and advocacy/marketing
20:35 < Michelle_Qimo> enjalot: we don't have a date hammered down yet
20:35 < itnet7> Maybe I can ask Rod if we can use the venue... if it's ever decided upon
20:35 < dantalizing> MRCeltic: not necessarily all 3
20:35 -!- chaynie [n=chaynie@81.86.119.70.cfl.res.rr.com] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:35 < chaynie> woot.
20:35 < mhall119> yeah, a venue for FLS would be helpful
20:35 < enjalot> Michelle_Qimo: ah ok
20:35 < Michelle_Qimo> dantalizing: are we still doing the packaging jam in Sept.
20:35  * chaynie is here.
20:35 < dantalizing> Michelle_Qimo: yes
20:36 < Michelle_Qimo> enjalot: join the Meetup (linkey-doo above) and I'll keep you in the loop
20:36 < dantalizing> september - october will be busy
20:36 < itnet7> I think we're just going to rally around outside T.D. Waterhouse Center
20:36 < MRCeltic> well theoretical we could do all 3 just break them up into groups or teams
20:36 < mhall119> dantalizing: is there a list of things that would need documentation?
20:36 < jamesrfla> well unfortunatly I have to go. Parents need me for something.
20:36 < dantalizing> Michelle_Qimo: yes
20:36 < itnet7> Hey there chaynie
20:36 < itnet7> bye jamesrfla !
20:36 < Michelle_Qimo> bye jamesrfla
20:36 < chaynie> hey itnet7! what did I miss?
20:36 < MRCeltic> cya jamesrfla
20:36 < dantalizing> mhall119: there are, yes, i will gather info
20:36 < mhall119> enjalot: http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux
20:36 < jamesrfla> bye itnet7 and Michelle_Qimo and MRCeltic
20:36 < chaynie> other than half a meeting. ;(
20:36 < Michelle_Qimo> lol
20:37 -!- jamesrfla [n=james@unaffiliated/jamesrfla] has left #ubuntu-us-fl []
20:37 < mhall119> dantalizing: documentation is something anyone can participate in
20:37 < itnet7> chaynie: you will be up next ;-)
20:37 < enjalot> i joined :) thanks
20:37 < dantalizing> mhall119: +1
20:37 < mhall119> and probably something that doesn't get enough participation
20:37 < itnet7> mhall119: definitely
20:37 < chaynie> itnet7: okie dokie.
20:38 < dantalizing> thats all i have for now
20:38 < MRCeltic> as far as documentation are we talking howto's and such or more in depth?
20:38 < mhall119> we can license the docs under cc-sa-flr
20:38 < dantalizing> ideas can/should be added to the wiki
20:38 < Michelle_Qimo> I'm all for advocacy.
20:38 < mhall119> and she's good at it too, note the growth rate of Qimo
20:38 < dantalizing> MRCeltic: wiki and help.u.c as well as doc bugs
20:38 < itnet7> what is the flr? florida?
20:39 < mhall119> flr=florida loco rocks, anyone who distributed the docs must vocalize that to be in compliance
20:39 < dantalizing> +1
20:39 < chaynie> FLR FTW.
20:40 < itnet7> :-)
20:40 < dantalizing> new identica tag
20:40 < dantalizing> #flr
20:40 -!- igorgue [n=igorgue@c-98-203-43-234.hsd1.fl.comcast.net] has joined #ubuntu-us-fl
20:40 < itnet7> +1
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> it's true.  it does rock.
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> ;-D
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> :-D
20:40 < Michelle_Qimo> I can't type today, it seems.
20:41 < MRCeltic> Marketing... I've been giving Ubuntu CD's away as much as possible at work,  Ubuntu is the first thing i mention when someone brings in a computer loaded with Virus' and Trojans
20:41 < itnet7> Nice MRCeltic !
20:41 < dantalizing> +1
20:41 < dantalizing> i need to work on that
20:41 < dantalizing> the first thing i usually say is 'windows sucks'
20:41 < itnet7> dantalizing: if you're finished for the most part, I think chaynie might be ready :-P
20:41 < itnet7> +1 dantalizing 
20:41 < dantalizing> which is probably not productive
20:41 < dantalizing> :)
20:41 < MRCeltic> Well majority of what i do at work is Data Backup and then reload Windows on machine's.
20:42 < chaynie> *might*
20:42 < chaynie> my magic 8 ball said, "Ask again later."
</pre>
