{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Summary ====
* <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> organized our Intrepid release party.  We had several newcomers to the Orlando party, including the organizers of the Florida Linux Show
* The FloridaTeam is currently planning an installfest in Miami for January.
* The FloridaTeam has upgraded their <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fl.org/ | website]]</nowiki> CMS software and has now enabled user registration.  We will be pushing team members to make compelling Ubuntu oriented content available to the public.
* <nowiki>[[Chris_C]]</nowiki> from the FloridaTeam ran an install fest for the Brevard User Group Linux SIG
* The Florida Team held a <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> on November 18^th^ and discussed a Miami Intrepid Installfest/Release Party
* DanTrevino is in the process of cleaning up the FloridaTeam wiki
* Next meeting is scheduled for December 2 at 8 PM.

==== Full Report ====
===== Projects =====

* The FloridaTeam is currently planning an installfest in Miami for January.

* The FloridaTeam has upgraded their <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fl.org/ | website]]</nowiki> CMS software and has now enabled user registration.  We will be pushing team members to make compelling Ubuntu oriented content available to the public.

* <nowiki>[[Chris_C]]</nowiki> from the FloridaTeam ran an install fest for the Brevard User Group Linux SIG

* <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki> organized our Intrepid release party.  We had several newcomers to the Orlando party, including the organizers of the Florida Linux Show
===== Meetings =====

*** The Florida Team held a <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> on November 18^th^ and discussed the following:

 I. Miami Intrepid Installfest/Release Parties

*** TiMiDo is organizing a release Party
  
*** Committments from several others to help out
    
 I. Other Items

** DanTrevino is in the process of cleaning up the FloridaTeam wiki

 I. Next Meeting

** Next meeting is scheduled for December 2 at 8 PM.

      [0] [WWW] https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#agenda

* The next Florida Team <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meetings|Meeting]]</nowiki> will be March 30^th^ @ 8 pm EST.

===== Florida Team Membership =====

   160

===== Recently Approved Members =====

*** Khryses (mccandmatt)
*** Joshua Blount (joshuablount)

===== Team Owner =====

   DanTrevino
