{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

IRC Logs from March 03, 2009 meeting.

<pre>
<itnet7> Hey there everyone, Marine1 we are going to be starting the meeting in about two minutes
<itnet7> Please don't post off topic
<itnet7> once it starts :-)
<jamesrfla> Meeting
<itnet7> Started a Gobby document on gobby.ubuntu-fl.org 20090303 - Team Meeting
<itnet7> Hey there jamesrfla
<itnet7> how are you?
<jamesrfla> FCAT in a week
<itnet7> Wow!
<jamesrfla> can't sign the CoC still
<jamesrfla> just finished my other meeting
<itnet7> Are you going to be at FLS or the meet-up in tampa?
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: can you make the tampa meetup?
<dantalizing> how far are you?
<dantalizing> oh
* dantalizing sits back
<jamesrfla> um when is it?
<itnet7> jinx you owe me a coke dan
<itnet7> :-)
<itnet7> The Tampa meetup is on the 7th
<jamesrfla> PWND
<jamesrfla> dam
<jamesrfla> Can't make it and it isn't becuase of transportation
<itnet7> uh... ok
<jamesrfla> FCAT studdying
* jamesrfla really wants to go to one linux thing
<dantalizing> can i connect to freenode from ut2004?
<itnet7> It doesn't usually last long for the meet-up
<itnet7> I think so
<jamesrfla> itnet7: going to a class at my school in the morning Saturday
<itnet7> still practicing after your whoopin, eh?
<dantalizing> oh thats cap
<dantalizing> LOL
<itnet7> I can try and help you later jamesrfla
<itnet7> tonight if you want
<itnet7> OK... so is everyone here??? Show of hands?
* itnet7 is here
* crashsystems is not here :P
<itnet7> lol
* dantalizing is in front of his new monitor
<erictee> erictee is here
<dantalizing> hey erictee didnt see you sneak in!
<itnet7> Hey there erictee, how are you!?!?
<erictee> doing fine
<jamesrfla> hear
<dantalizing> did you see your pic splashed everywhere erictee ?
<erictee> yeah, thanks for the publicity
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> You don't mind do you ?
<jamesrfla> itnet7: are you a teacher?
* crashsystems is uploading to archive.org for the first time ever :D
<itnet7> jamesrfla, no
<itnet7> I teach a linux sig, but that's about it
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: no way he can be becaues i take him to school
<dantalizing> whenever we play ut
<jamesrfla> ?
<itnet7> Yeah...
<itnet7> i'm out of practice and playing on an LT... you on the other hand have been playing non stop since you got your new rig
<itnet7> :-)
<dantalizing> 3 times
<dantalizing> a day
<dantalizing> :)
<jamesrfla> I built my new gaming rig
<itnet7> Well you have one mean machine now... so... :-)
<jamesrfla> to bad I can't use it
<itnet7> sweet jamesrfla
<itnet7> Oh.. .fcat's?
<jamesrfla> yeap
<jamesrfla> just finished it sunday
<itnet7> Well you guys ready to go through the agenda?? Then we can talk some more
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<itnet7> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/FloridaLinuxShow-2009J
<itnet7> Dan, you want to talk about your items?
<itnet7> I can address some of it, but you have the floor :-)
<dantalizing> um
<dantalizing> well we mainly need to coordinate
<dantalizing> if we want to stay in the same hotel
<dantalizing> several are coming up to jax
<dantalizing> i'm just gonna pick a place i guess
<dantalizing> was hoping to coordinate with boredandblogging and linuxcrypt as well
<dantalizing> i figured i'd hit up pbacgrad to find a place in jax
<dantalizing> or we hit the beach pubs again
<itnet7> I liked the place we stayed last year, but my wife and daughter are coming with me and my room is being sponsored
<crashsystems> FLS is a one day event, yes?
<itnet7> Yes, Monday only
<dantalizing> yes
<dantalizing> but we're going up sunday night
<dantalizing> for shenanigans
<crashsystems> lol
<itnet7> but some people don't want to drive there in Monday Morning Traffic
<itnet7> And the shenanigans :-)
<dantalizing> mainly
<itnet7> Is Smita coming?
<jamesrfla> lol
<dantalizing> she's part of the ubuntu podcast crew... :)
<dantalizing> so she wanted to go
<jamesrfla> I-75 get your ass out of the road
<dantalizing> yes
<itnet7> Cool Beans!
<jamesrfla> dam I think I missed the last Ubuntu podcast :(
<crashsystems> I live close enough to drive to the event the day it starts, but that I think will also disqualify me from any "shenanigans"
<dantalizing> well we need more people for tables
<itnet7> So, to let you know I am going to take the list of those that signed up on the FLS Jacksonville page, and will place all of the names in willcall
<dantalizing> so if you sign up on the wiki page, that'd be good
<dantalizing> k
<itnet7> Our FLS Jacksonville Wiki Page
<dantalizing> i will communicate with the people on the page
<dantalizing> well now taht i look, its not many people
<dantalizing> itnet7: is pak33m gonna be busy all day with music?
<dantalizing> or is that a morning - lunch - end thing?
<itnet7> I think it might be a good idea to give the mailing list one more mail, including both the meet-up and FLS and tell everyone if they plan on attending, that they can put their names on that page to waive the entry fee
<dantalizing> you want me to do that?
<itnet7> pak33m doesn't have to dj the whole time, but can as much or little as he wants
<dantalizing> or are you saying you will?
<itnet7> Sure if you don't mind?
<dantalizing> k
<dantalizing> i'll do that
<itnet7> Sweet! Remember if they show up and their name is not in our list, I can't guarantee free entry
<itnet7> Unless they have made previous arrangements with Rod to volunteer
<dantalizing> we'll ignore that
<dantalizing> thats outside our scope
<dantalizing> :)
<itnet7> Oh, Word to the wise, If you like free shirts
<itnet7> be there early
<itnet7> there is a limited quantity first come first serve
* crashsystems does not like free shirts
<dantalizing> you're gonna bring CDs, right itnet7 ?
<itnet7> And I know a few of them are going to be gone before Monday Morning
<itnet7> Yes
<dantalizing> can we set up on sunday?
<itnet7> Yes, I am pretty sure we can
<dantalizing> kk
* jamesrfla adds water cooling to itnet7 cd drive
<dantalizing> can you find out if there is a timeframe that we would have access on sunday?
<dantalizing> last year it was only for a few hrs iirc
<itnet7> I will definitely find out
<dantalizing> thats all i had on fls
<itnet7> I have a couple of quick things
<jamesrfla> ﻿be back soon have to take trash out
<itnet7> Out of those that plan to show up are/is there anyone willing to help with installs if needed?
<dantalizing> i'll add a column to the wiki sign-up page
<crashsystems> sure
<itnet7> good idea!
<itnet7> Cool crashsystems
<itnet7> Thanks!, I plan on helping too
<dantalizing> i heard erictee say he was coming up too
<erictee> Is fls only in Jax ?
<dantalizing> this time
<dantalizing> in october there will be one in orlando
<dantalizing> plus atlanta linux fest in september
<dantalizing> get your cars gassed up
<erictee> I might make orlando have family there
<dantalizing> cool
<itnet7> Well that bring us to the next item on the agenda :-)
<dantalizing> maybe 2010 we can go to miami :)
<erictee> sounds good
<dantalizing> badger itnet7 about that until he commits
<itnet7> rofl
<dantalizing> jaunty release parties
<crashsystems> oo
<dantalizing> we are having 5
<dantalizing> but so far, we're 4 short
<dantalizing> :)
<itnet7> lol
<dantalizing> we *are* having 5
<dantalizing> so erictee ropetin anyone else from ft lauderdale/miami area
<dantalizing> we need help organizing down there
<itnet7> We need to try someone from Downsouth
<itnet7> to be motivated
<crashsystems> ether I'll have a release party in Lake City by myself with beer n' pizza, or I'll attend an event in Gainesville.
<dantalizing> we have Orlando covered
<dantalizing> woot crashsystems
<dantalizing> we need jax and tampa
<dantalizing> also
<dantalizing> we may be able to twist zoopster or MianoSM or [pnp]tomas arms to get something in tampa
<dantalizing> or Catsceo
<MianoSM> Lets do it!
<MianoSM> You don't need to twist my arm(s)!
<itnet7> I was thinking of possibly having one hear in Melbourne
<itnet7> here not hear lol
<itnet7> It will probably be with the SIG
<[pnp]tomas> ohhi
<dantalizing> MianoSM: can you organize?
<MianoSM> Possibly....
<itnet7> Hey there tomas!
<[pnp]tomas> way to make my window be green :p
<dantalizing> thats why were here [pnp]tomas
<MianoSM> We need a venue, for April late?
<[pnp]tomas> 2009 or 2010?
<dantalizing> or early may
<jamesrfla> back
<dantalizing> release is 23rd april
<MianoSM> 2009
<dantalizing> we dont *have* to ahve it that first weekend
<MianoSM> I'll look into a couple of places.
<[pnp]tomas> what sort've "atmosphere"?
<dantalizing> MianoSM: can you put yourself down here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties
<MianoSM> No promises though - any other requirements aside from a large room with power outlets etc?
<dantalizing> internet
<dantalizing> [pnp]tomas: we've done release parties in libraries and restaurants
<dantalizing> i can be social
<dantalizing> or install
<dantalizing> or combo
<dantalizing> anything really
* jamesrfla has power and internet but....
<[pnp]tomas> I have LAN parties scheduled for Apr 11 and May 02, if that helps or counts in any way
<crashsystems> social install with beer 'n pizza
<jamesrfla> [pnp]tomas: where at?
<dantalizing> ok .. *after* april 23
<[pnp]tomas> Largo - 6340 126th Ave
<jamesrfla> what city [pnp]tomas?
<jamesrfla> oph
<jamesrfla> largo
<[pnp]tomas> Largo / Pinellas Park / St. Petersburg / Clearwater type area
<dantalizing> ok, i will talk to people in jax
<dantalizing> because they really love me up there
<MianoSM> I'm added to the https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties page now
<dantalizing> awesome
<dantalizing> itnet7: can you add melborne to the list if/when you decide to do the bug club?
<MianoSM> I'm pretty sure the Largo Community Center would probably host it...
<dantalizing> igorgue is just in time to be the miami host
<MianoSM> don't know what the booking looks like though (it's normally available for residents...).
<jamesrfla> I need a linux party that is on a weekend and that will be fun/interesting
<itnet7> I am kicking around the idea of doing it in Rockledge and inviting some people from work to the conference rooms downstairs
<itnet7> ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^
<igorgue> dantalizing: I'm in!
<itnet7> Jaunty release
<igorgue> :D
<igorgue> host for what?
<dantalizing> igorgue: jaunty release party
<igorgue> ahh
<dantalizing> late april/may
<jamesrfla> 9.04?
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties
<igorgue> umm...
<dantalizing> yall dont make me reserve brikolodge again
<itnet7> We should try and stagger them a bit, so we can attend more than one if needed
<itnet7> LOL
<igorgue> well I don't know... see the thing is, I'm about to move out, if I move to another place then it'll be perfect!
<dantalizing> itnet7: that would be ideal
<dantalizing> igorgue: we dont want to go to your house... we just need someeone to take the lead and reserve a place & time somewhere
<dantalizing> i would be afraid to be infected by all the .net cooties ;)
<MianoSM> dantalizing: we're on the open source budget of $0.00 right?
<jamesrfla> the Florida linux show looks like it would be the most kick *** linux thing to go to
<jamesrfla> lol
<dantalizing> MianoSM: yes, but i can pitch in
<itnet7> Let's see what happens... I may be able to get some support from FLS
<itnet7> possibly
<dantalizing> well awesome we have somewhere between 2 and 4 now
<dantalizing> :)
<dantalizing> crashsystems if you wanna talk about doing something here in gainesville with gatorlug we can
<marine1> gotta run see most of you down here in Tampa this weekend.
<dantalizing> clintc might be up for it
<crashsystems> that would be cool
<dantalizing> later marine1
<dantalizing> see you
<itnet7> See you marine1
<crashsystems> is the meeting over?
<dantalizing> i got nothing
<itnet7> does anyone have anything else?
<dantalizing> i'm gonna send an email soliciting miami help
<crashsystems> this: http://crashsystems.net/2009/03/email-encryption-guide-2/
<dantalizing> and jax
<jamesrfla> GTG take shower be back soon
<dantalizing> jamesrfla:
<MianoSM> dantalizing: hey, what were attendances like for the last couple of release parties?
<itnet7> crashsystems, very Nice!
<crashsystems> thanks
<dantalizing> ubuntu podcast #20 is up now!
<jamesrfla> yes dantalizing
<itnet7> between 10 - 20
<itnet7> Miano
<MianoSM> thnx
<dantalizing> we can do better
<jamesrfla> dam can't watch it now shower brb
<dantalizing> i say 200 statewaide
<itnet7> Yeah, I think so
<n3gbz> don't think I can make FLS this year after all
<[pnp]tomas> What are you alls thoughts on "cover" charges?
<n3gbz> but will be at next LoCo meeting
<itnet7> Oh, what happened n3gbz?
<[pnp]tomas> just to pay the expense for the facility rental
<n3gbz> personal issues - life keeps happening!!!
<itnet7> tomas, We try to do it where there is little cost to attendees
<itnet7> for example
<dantalizing> [pnp]tomas: i'd rather keep it at $0
<itnet7> if you were to hold one at a coffee shop, just have everyone buy their own lunch and coffee
<[pnp]tomas> Understandable - we were just tossing around the idea of $5 entry
<itnet7> Most places are cool with that
<itnet7> I don't think 5 bucks is bad
<dantalizing> $5 is evil
<[pnp]tomas> $5 is certainly not evil, its a foot long for goodness sakes!
<dantalizing> lol
<[pnp]tomas> {*} Next Florida LoCo Team Meeting: Tuesday, December 16th at 20:00 Eastern (details)
<dantalizing> well, i would just say we should exhaust all of our $0 options first
<[pnp]tomas> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/JauntyReleaseParties#Where%20(Place)%20&%20When
<itnet7> I would prefer that you let me know what you are planning and I can try and get some sponsorships for you
<[pnp]tomas> that needs updated, but I have no idea how :p
<MianoSM> [pnp]tomas: edit button on the top left
<MianoSM> Ubuntu, Florida Team/Meetings, then Edit. ;)
<[pnp]tomas> Just brain storming itnet7, but I rent a room on the cheap, we could rent a second room and just pass the cost on to attendees
<dantalizing> hmm...looks like i used the old header
<dantalizing> :
<dantalizing> :)
<[pnp]tomas> its just a branstorm idea though
<itnet7> Yeah, it is the older header
<dantalizing> fixed
<itnet7> For better attendance, I think that we should try and keep the cost to a minimum. I might even try to work on getting t-shirts made
<itnet7> Much better
<itnet7> anyone besides crashsystems like t-shirts??
<itnet7> :-P
<crashsystems> lol
<crashsystems> I tend not to like shirts with words on them, though i've been thinking of getting an Ubuntu shirt and an EFF shirt
<dantalizing> ooo
<dantalizing> eff ftw
<crashsystems> I have several links to EFF on my email encryption guide
<itnet7> I was thinking something with the florida team logo, and Jaunty Release
<crashsystems> I might go for that, as long as it is not brown
* dantalizing was gonna order a qimo shirt for the wife, but they only have the blue color
<dantalizing> which i dont like
<itnet7> Oh...
<itnet7> stop talking about zoopster like that dan, he's a good guy
<dantalizing> morning zoopster
<dantalizing> lies
<itnet7> ROFL
<itnet7> Okay so we have some stuff to work and and some good ideas to run with
<itnet7> if no one has anything else
<itnet7> we'll close there
<MianoSM> There's a Florida Team logo?
<itnet7> :-)
<itnet7> Yeah
<dantalizing> omg
<jamesrfla> back
<itnet7> ROFL
<itnet7> ubuntu-fl.org has it on the front page
<dantalizing> http://www.ubuntu-fl.org/images/fl_logo.png
<dantalizing> its also in the team marketing wiki page
<MianoSM> ah groovy
<zoopster> morning all
<itnet7> lies
<[pnp]tomas> does the fl team have any banners or anything?
<dantalizing> new york hhas confused zoopster
<[pnp]tomas> web banners
<dantalizing> [pnp]tomas: we have some
<dantalizing> somewhere
<dantalizing> on the same marketing wiki page
<dantalizing> but they need improvement
<MianoSM> http://www.ubuntu-fl.org/images/
<MianoSM> I think there's some kind of index.*** on that page :(
<dantalizing> yes
<itnet7> I was thinking that we should also make a Florida Team GDM Splash screen
<[pnp]tomas> that /images/ dir isn't getting me very far
<MianoSM> yea, srsly
<dantalizing> ok ok
<dantalizing> i mv'd the index.html
<dantalizing> but thats all joomla image mainly
<jamesrfla> [pnp]tomas: do you really like LAN parties?
<dantalizing> and some thumbs
<[pnp]tomas> jamesrfla: I run one every month :p
<itnet7> Dude, I just checked out your picasa pics for brikoledge
<[pnp]tomas> I've been lanning since 2001 and running this one since late 2007
<MianoSM> Nice, I <3 +Indexes
<jamesrfla> cool my boss runs one about every mouth down here in Ft. Myers, FL
<jamesrfla> gaming until past 7AM
<dantalizing> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Marketing/Collateral
<dantalizing> itnet7: mine?
<itnet7> Yeah@!@
<dantalizing> they're all your pics
<dantalizing> well most
<itnet7> http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/view?uname=dantrevino&isOwner=true&tags=ubuntu-global-bugjam-february-09#5306033993671915602
<itnet7> not mine
<[pnp]tomas> running it until 7am is painful!
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> Some of them at the beginning were, but I didn't see these
<[pnp]tomas> we call it quits between midnight and 2am
<dantalizing> itnet7: i mixed yours and mine
<itnet7> ah!!
<dantalizing> now i'm off to blow stuff up
<dantalizing> later guys
<jamesrfla> [pnp]tomas: yeah I have been working from him since the end of summer and last month was the first one I could attend and game. Went to another one but he didn't his back up gamer so I could game. So this last time I was able to use it and game from 7Pm to 7AM
<jamesrfla> cool dantalizing
<dantalizing> ut2k4 anyone?
<jamesrfla> ?
<[pnp]tomas> ah 7pm, that makes sense
<itnet7> I was on the other night where were you?
<[pnp]tomas> we do ours from 11am to midnight or so
<dantalizing> lies itnet7
* itnet7 never lies
* itnet7 well
<dantalizing> lies
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> well not to my friends :-)
* jamesrfla wants to go to a linux party/meeting or something on a weekend
<itnet7> zoopster, we'll see you on saturday
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: we'll be waiting for you in tampa
<itnet7> jamesrfla go to the meet-up it doesn't last long
<jamesrfla> The FL linux show should be on a weekday
<dantalizing> tell your mother to break down and drive you over
<itnet7> zoopster has a curfew
<jamesrfla> I don't think she will let me dantalizing and itnet7
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: bring her!
<dantalizing> she need to understand what her son is doing
<jamesrfla> she knows nothing about the computer
<itnet7> Some cool Mom's do attend
<itnet7> She can eat and bring a book
<jamesrfla> saturday at what time?
<itnet7> 10 am
<itnet7> til about noon or so I believe
<zoopster> I think Catsceo banned his mom from irc
<itnet7> ROFL
<dantalizing> lol
<itnet7> She was more 1337 than himi
<zoopster> no doubt
<itnet7> just like his cat's
<jamesrfla> will still be about school and by the time I get there it will be 12:30
<jamesrfla> 2 hour drive
<jamesrfla> :(
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: not if you leave at 8
<itnet7> that one cat of his urinated on his Mac, I was like "Good Kitty"!
<jamesrfla> I might be able to make the next thing
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: we
<itnet7> Cool
<dantalizing> we'll wait for ya
<jamesrfla> dantalizing: I have a class about FCAT at 8:30
<dantalizing> ah
<jamesrfla> I don't think I can make it......
<itnet7> get the cliffnotes
<dantalizing> school firs
<dantalizing> t
<itnet7> :-P
<zoopster> itnet7: you are coming over this weekend? I can't stay too long this weekend...
<itnet7> Yeah, I was planning on it
<itnet7> No Worries
<jamesrfla> when is the next one dantalizing?
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: zoopster organizes them
<itnet7> First Saturday of the month's
<itnet7> RIght Zoops?
<dantalizing> jamesrfla: go sign up on the meetup page
<dantalizing> then you'll get notification
<dantalizing> http://www.meetup.com/Tampa-Linux
<dantalizing> iirc
<zoopster> yea....april is a tough one, though
<jamesrfla> I mean like other ones not just meet ups
<dantalizing> next would probably be the meetup
<dantalizing> then after that release parties for jaunty
<itnet7> We are trying to post stuff in the GetInvolved Wiki
<itnet7> that is upcoming
<itnet7> and Dan has been great about notifying the team of the events, You are on the Mailing list right Jamserfla?
<jamesrfla> the jaunty thing I might be able to come too
<jamesrfla> yes itnet7
<dantalizing> ah one more thing itnet7
<zoopster> we should have a big party in the middle of the state...like maybe lakeland for the release party
<dantalizing> pleia2 finally got access to ubuntu-us.org
<MianoSM> zoopster: like a big bonfire party?
<dantalizing> so team enws is syndicated on teh ubuntu-us planet
<itnet7> Wow!
<dantalizing> so we want t omake sure to add events and news to teh website
<itnet7> Awesome!
</pre>
