{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

IRC Logs from January 6, 2009 meeting: 
<pre>
<jamesrfla> MEETING!!!!
<dantalizing> jimmah
<jamesrfla> Hi emet
<emet> hey
<jamesrfla> meeting should be now
<jamesrfla> Hi Traveler
<jamesrfla> unless we are running on duffy time
<dantalizing> morning emet & Traveler
<dantalizing> pak331: ping
<dantalizing> pak331: is the master of ceremonies usually
<emet> lol
<jamesrfla> Hi CardinalFang
<CardinalFang> j0!
<jamesrfla> wow the most people I have seen in here..
<dantalizing> lies
<dantalizing> well ok
<CardinalFang> dantalizing is a bot I wrote in 50 lines of Python. it doesn't count.
<dantalizing> +1
<zoopster> ROFL
<emet> :o
<zoopster> as itnet7 would say
<jamesrfla> i do believe pak331 is having problems
<dantalizing> he ROF too much
<dantalizing> ok
<CardinalFang> See, sometimes his Markov chain hash gets wonky.
<elementc> oh hi guys
<itnet7> Thanks for speaking on my behalf :-p
<dantalizing> hey elementc
<dantalizing> long time no see
<elementc> long time no see
<itnet7> I'm round it's hard to stop
<elementc> haha
<elementc> so... what's up?
<dantalizing> so for those who arent usually around, the active team usually meets up in here to discuss advocacy, release events, install fests, general user help, or whatever
<dantalizing> and the otehr 99% is nonsense
<dantalizing> meeting agenda is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings
<emet> lol
<dantalizing> we're missing our miami contingent...
<dantalizing> which is typical
<dantalizing> ;0
<elementc> out partying
<emet> I am from Ft.Lauderdale
<jamesrfla> Ft. Myers
<dantalizing> emet is now the miami organizer
<dantalizing> :)
<emet> rofl
<emet> okay
<dantalizing> seriously, we talked about doing a face to face meetup on the 21st of feb
<dantalizing> barcamp miami is 22nd
<dantalizing> and FOWA is 23rd & 24th
<emet> I'm probably going to barcamp miami
<dantalizing> me too
<dantalizing> driving down to miami is too far for 1 night :)
<elementc> miami's out of my workplace. whens the next barcamp orlando :P
<dantalizing> we were gonna do a release party/installfest, but that kinda dies
<dantalizing> *died
<dantalizing> so maybe we can build off the f2f for the future
<emet> FAU had a pretty big installfest a few years ago :o
<dantalizing> really? cool
<dantalizing> well hopefully we can do something big for jaunty release
<emet> yeah they had speakers and stuff too
<elementc> afk; brb
<dantalizing> zbrown suggested umm
<dantalizing> crap
<dantalizing> oh
<emet> the problem is FAU seriously cut it's extracurricular budget and pretty much all the student clubs are hurting
<dantalizing> titanic brewery
<dantalizing> saturday night
<dantalizing> i know at least 2 of us will be there
<dantalizing> but if there are other, better suggestions, for location
<emet> is that Miami?
<dantalizing> yes
<dantalizing> near um i understand
<dantalizing> or is it mu?
<emet> mu?
<dantalizing> UM
<dantalizing> Miami
<emet> ah
<emet> UM is deep into Miami
<dantalizing> well thats the only suggestion we've had so far
<dantalizing> i called a couple place
<emet> you live in Miami?
<dantalizing> but they were either booked or $$$
<emet> I know zbrown goes to UM
<dantalizing> emet: no, in gainesville
<emet> damn
<emet> lol
<emet> does UF has a LUG?
<dantalizing> emet: thats the prob...i really have no idea about miami locations
<elementc> kback. civic centers or parks?
<dantalizing> i was just digging on the google
<dantalizing> emet: GatorLUG
<jamesrfla> pak33m!!!!!
<elementc> ohly smokes its been a while
<dantalizing> elementc: the suggestion i got from a couple of miami expatriots was for libraries
<dantalizing> but that would assume we're gonna do install/release activities
<dantalizing> we have nobody taking the lead on that
<pak33m> hi everybody
<dantalizing> so we're just gonna do a f2f for now
<dantalizing> morning pak33m
<elementc> libraries will typically kick you out or charge if you have more than 15 in my experience.
<jamesrfla> meeting time 17min late...
<itnet7> elementc didn't you say you were from Brevard? I held a linux sig for the space coast computer group and there were like 60 of them at the Library in Cocoa
<emet> I know someone who uses Ubuntu from Bevard
<emet> Brevard*
<itnet7> Yeah, who ? :-)
<dantalizing> ok, so barring any other suggestions, we're still Titanic Brewery on 2/22
<emet> elcasey
<dantalizing> pak33m: you wanna take over?
<dantalizing> item 2?
<dantalizing> mmmkay
<dantalizing> so Florida Linux Show is coming up in 2 months
<dantalizing> I've ordered CDs and a conference pack
<dantalizing> we need volunteers to man the booth
<dantalizing> do demos
<dantalizing> help with installs
<jamesrfla> dantalizing: when and where is it?
<itnet7> What is umm?
<MianoSM1> you sharing out time frames?
<dantalizing> 2 months!
<dantalizing> ;)
<dantalizing> sorry
<dantalizing> Florida Linux Show is coming on March 9 in Jacksonville
<MianoSM1> It's a Monday just fyi.
<dantalizing> yes, 1 day conference
<itnet7> It was last year as well
<dantalizing> Monday only
<dantalizing> however last year, we all met up Sunday night
<zoopster> I'll be there...I can help and volunteered for the event as well
<dantalizing> had dinner and drinks, and got up early in the morning to set up
<zoopster> I'll be at BarCamp MIA as well
<dantalizing> nice zoopster
<jamesrfla> can't go. Unless anybody near Ft. Myers? Then again I am not sure if mom will let me go with any strangers :(
<dantalizing> this page with info is here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects/FloridaLinuxShow-2009J
<dantalizing> last year we had a good turnout and had a good time
<dantalizing> met John "maddog" Hall
<dantalizing> and the OpenVZ guys
<dantalizing> who pak33m loves
<itnet7> we are going to modify that info page a bit right?
<zoopster> roblimo will be there as a speaker, too
<itnet7> Bah!
<dantalizing> roblimo again?
<dantalizing> blech
<dantalizing> bad experience with him last year zoopster
<itnet7> You would love what he said about ubuntu to Maddog zoop
<dantalizing> but whateva
<zoopster> bummer...he's a character
<zoopster> I haven't spoken with him since my move...maybe time for a call
<itnet7> He might have just been so excited to get close to maddog, he wasn't thinking about what he was saying
<dantalizing> maybe
<MianoSM1> What was said?
<zoopster> let me know if you need anything for it...I'll be in London next week and can try to snag some goodies if need be
<itnet7> We'll bring it up at the F2f
<MianoSM1> this weekend?
<itnet7> Incentive for people to show :-)
<dantalizing> MianoSM1: yes
<dantalizing> so itnet7 is the lead of the show
<dantalizing> if yall have questions and stuff he's the man
<dantalizing> itnet7: are we having a separate install area this year?
<dantalizing> zoopster: we can definitely give away whatever swag we get
<itnet7> If we can get enough volunteers I can arrange it
<dantalizing> zoopster: i ordered the conference pack
<dantalizing> zoopster: and cds
<dantalizing> 250
<dantalizing> dunno how many they'll send
<itnet7> shhhh dan... the more swag the better
<dantalizing> well i'll primarily be a booth babe, but can be available to help out with installs
<dantalizing> we need to bring some extra monitors and such this time if we do that
<itnet7> I was talking with Rod, and was trying to figure out a way that we can arrange the install area to invite even non-attendees to come
<zoopster> I'll try to get more next week...just added myself to the list
<itnet7> Not sure if it will work out in Jville... but definitely for Orlando
<pak331> dantalizing: are we on to fls now?
<dantalizing> pak331: yes
<dantalizing> itnet7: cook
<dantalizing> *cool
<pak331> sorry, had some networking probs
<pak331> i will help at fls.
<pak331> and will be getting stuff together from system76
<dantalizing> pak331: sign up sheet here:
<dantalizing> pak331: sign up sheet here: 01:29 < dantalizing> 250
<dantalizing> 01:29 < dantalizing> dunno how many they'll send
<dantalizing> oops
<dantalizing> project page
<jamesrfla> anybody near the Ft. myers area?
<dantalizing> pak331: yeah i was gonna ask you about the system76 thing
<dantalizing> has reya276 given you the updates?
<dantalizing> and do you know if we can get a laptop from them?
<pak331> dantalizing: i still need to form a response to carl and let him know what we need an dnot just for fls.
<pak331> dantalizing: i havent got an update from reya
<dantalizing> k
<dantalizing> we can take that offline
<dantalizing> just ping me
<pak331> i will follow upp
<dantalizing> i got nothing else on fls
<dantalizing> itnet7: ?
<pak331> not to change the subject but do we need system76 stuff for f2f
<jamesrfla> brb
<dantalizing> pak331: miami f2f?
* ** MianoSM1 is now known as MianoSM
<pak331> yepps
<itnet7> pak33m: can you get a discount on one of the gazelle models?
<dantalizing> i dont think so
<pak331> system76 is willing to give us stuff for whatever we do
<pak331> itnet7: i wish
<pak331> itnet7: they may give us a few models to play with
<dantalizing> pak331: the miami thing is just gonna be social
<pak331> dantalizing: word
<dantalizing> then barcamp
<pak331> i will get the stuff we need for fls though
<dantalizing> so prepare your presentation
<dantalizing> ok i'm done
<dantalizing> open mic
<dantalizing> anyone?
<pak331> oh my presentation can be how to use mixxx to dj
<pak331> maybe i will be the only one there without a mac
<dantalizing> lies
<dantalizing> there werent many macs at uds
<dantalizing> except for ZOOPSTER
<dantalizing> and a few otehrs
<zoopster> what? there were plenty there
<pak331> no but the last barcamo orlando was like a mac nightmare
<dantalizing> i only saw about 4
<pak331> an all white and chrome nightmare
<dantalizing> i was too starstruck by the ubuntu allstar boredandblogging
<zoopster> yea..mine is aluminum
<zoopster> then itnet7 brings out the monster with guns blazing
<itnet7> ROFL
<itnet7> you're right
<pak331> what was that plan to destroy all macs at Catsceo house
<itnet7> can't help it
<NTTP> hey - sorry for being late
<dantalizing> hey nttp
<zoopster> sorry...distracted by qik
<pak331> dantalizing: so what about the bug jam for the team
<dantalizing> streaming the irc?
<dantalizing> 24th of feb, no?
<zoopster> tried too...not enough signal in my office
<pak331> dantalizing: are we doing the bug jam as a meetup?
<dantalizing> well we'd talked about doing it as part of the miami thing
<pak331> yeah thats what i meant
<dantalizing> but the miami thing is social only
<dantalizing> unless someone can carve us out a place
<itnet7> We've been jamming bugs have you looked recently at the stats?
<itnet7> http://daniel.holba.ch/5-a-day-stats/
<itnet7> Florida Team 4 place for last month
<dantalizing> yes
<dantalizing> Lupine and itnet7 are jamming
<zoopster> rock on itnet7!
<pak331> whoa, i didnt know
<pak331> seriously rock on
<Lupine> :)
<pak331> where do you find all the time to jam all of the those bugs
<itnet7> lol, I messed up my launchpad name... unfortunately by switching mid stream
<dantalizing> and we're the #2 ubuntu folding at home team :)
<Lupine> itnet7, I got the "OK" from the wifey
<Lupine> so we are good for Tampa
<itnet7> I can't use openid to log in to the wikis
<itnet7> COOL
<Lupine> ROAD TRIP!!!!!
<pak331> i wanna go. ill provide gas money.
<itnet7> So far, Me, You, Chuck, I wonder if I should invite tweak
<itnet7> I can pick you up on the way
<dantalizing> pak331: want me to swing by and pick you up?
<zoopster> you talking this saturday's meeting?
<dantalizing> or itnet7
<itnet7> Yeah
<itnet7> Sat.
<zoopster> awesome...we'll have a bunch at this one...cool!
<pak331> what time would we be back on sat night or at all?
<zoopster> I need to verify space
<dantalizing> MianoSM promised he would come
<pak331> i got my dj gig that night
<MianoSM> I did?
<dantalizing> :)
<dantalizing> not exactly
<MianoSM> I'll most likely be there. ;)
<MianoSM> I think tomas was the one that promised. :)
<[pnp]tomas> pssh
<dantalizing> [pnp]tomas = gamer itnet7 & Lupine
<dantalizing> nttp gaming anymore?
<[pnp]tomas> ouch, don't label me as a gamer ><
<pak331> itnet7: are you gggguys staying there overnight?
<dantalizing> sorry [pnp]tomas "runs a lan party"
<elementc> hey pnp
<elementc> steam://connect/70.152.196.155:27016/
<elementc> ;P
<dantalizing> steam is not yet on linux
<dantalizing> freedom hater
<elementc> actually
<elementc> wine
<dantalizing> :)
<elementc> ;)
<MianoSM> their servers sure are though
<[pnp]tomas> dantalizing: amongst other things :p
<elementc> and their servers sure as hell are the easiest setup ever
<[pnp]tomas> I've seen steam on osx, theres an app supposedly out for it
<elementc> cx games
<elementc> actually
<elementc> wine has been avle to run it forever
<itnet7> hold on catching up
<zoopster> Lupine: the meeting is just a f2f for a few hours...we could retreat to my place if interested later though
* ** pak331 is now known as pak33m
<NTTP> I have Portal running just fine under Wine ;-)
<Lupine> sounds like a plan....it's quite a drive for us, so the more time spent over there, the more worth it, it will be
<[pnp]tomas> are you guys still running "the meeting"?
<[pnp]tomas> otherwise i'm curious what entails saturdays meeting
<itnet7> pak33m: I don't think we'll be staying, I mean I wouldn't mind hanging out
<mhall119> Hello, anyone in the central florida area?
<itnet7> what time did you need to be back in orlando?
<dantalizing> we should do the meetup and the pak33m's dj gig
<zoopster> saturday's meeting is just a meeting in tampa to get together and peace out
<pak33m> itnet7: i wanna ride with you guys if possible but i have to be back in orlando for my dj gig
<elementc> hwy mhall 119, I am
<mhall119> I'm in Lakeland
<pak33m> itnet7: if not i can drive myself
<dantalizing> mhall119: gainesville
<NTTP> Who is planning on the Jax FLS?
<itnet7> pak33m: what time is your gig?
<dantalizing> we have a former member from lakeland
<mhall119> cool, maybe I know him
<elementc> mhall119: brevard
<dantalizing> NTTP define planning
<NTTP> dantalizing: I'm not in Lakeland anymore
<pak33m> itnet7: i have to be there at 9:45
<mhall119> I'm starting a charity here in Lakeland, that's using Ubuntu
<dantalizing> NTTP itnet7 is running the show, so far me, pak33m, itnet7, and zoopster will be there
<dantalizing> i'm sure more
<NTTP> dantalizing: If anyone needs it, I part-time at a hotel in Saint Augustine, and can offer a *decent* rate.
<itnet7> cool mhall119
<dantalizing> NTTP: i meant bordy ;)
<zoopster> pak33m: I can't hang out that long...so I'm sure you can be back well before then!
<NTTP> dantalizing : Figured - haven't seen him online anywhere in a while
<mhall119> http://www.quinncoincorporated.org/ is our website
<dantalizing> nttp he still pops in now and then
<NTTP> Moved away from Polk county 7 months ago....
<pak33m> zoopster: you mean the tampa meetup?
<itnet7> Yeah that might be really cool to go to the gig after the meetup, unless pak33m is going to play flock of seagulls all night :-P
<mhall119> We get donated computers, load them up with a derivative of Xubuntu, and give them to kids with special needs
<zoopster> pak33m: yea
<dantalizing> that is awesome mhall119
<NTTP> mhall119: Awesome - I wish that you had that going when I was still over there.
<dantalizing> i see a project :)
<pak33m> itnet7: i will play all of your requests. so long as they dont suck. and no flock of seagulls tehe
<pak33m> zoopster: just checking
<itnet7> Waiting Room by Fugazi
<mhall119> Our contact information is on the website, if anybody has equipment they'd like to donate, or want to get involved with the software, please let me know
<zoopster> mhall119: I have at least one computer I'd love to donate...I'll send a note
<pak33m> itnet7: seriously i just played that tonight for myself
<mhall119> awesome, thanks!
<dantalizing> mhall119: maybe we can do some promotion of what you're doing
<pak33m> itnet7: actaully played 13 songs
<pak33m> the album
<mhall119> dantalizing: I'll take any support I can get
<dantalizing> mhall119: well we can certainly do a pc drive or some such
<pak33m> anybody who wants to come to my gig after the tampa meetup is more than welcome.
<pak33m> no cover
<dantalizing> pak33m: is tehre a cover charge?
<zoopster> itnet7: you know you play flock of seagulls every freaking day
<mhall119> I just finished putting together a LiveCD of Qimo (my distro), but unfortunately I have nowhere to host the image. If anyone want's a copy, I'll burn you one and snail-mail it
<pak33m> and i am a fine dj!
<MianoSM> you want a shell mhall119?
<pak33m> itnet7: ok ok i play space age love song at least three time a day
<mhall119> a what?
<itnet7> I can't my cube mate would leave lupine and try and jump me if I did
<MianoSM> a shell account to scp your iso to?
<NTTP> I updated my info on the team website - if anyone needs me you can find my info there or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NeoTaoistTechnoPagan
<mhall119> sure, if anyone is willing to host it and can spare the bandwidth, I'd be thrilled
<dantalizing> nttp glad to see you're coming back more often
<zoopster> mhall119: how big is it?
<mhall119> 682 megs
<dantalizing> can i put the hotel info on the page?
<dantalizing> if someone wants to contact you?
<dantalizing> or wanna keep it word of mouth?
<pak33m> itnet7: so what time is the minivan swiging into orlando on sat?
<NTTP> just make the exception for a 'former' Ubuntu-er. I've gone back to Gentoo ;-)
<dantalizing> oh thats sad
<zoopster> MianoSM: what kind of bandwidth do you have to host with?
<MianoSM> umm, I think 100/100
<itnet7> Holy crap... we actually have to have some organization this time... and a schedule :-)
<mhall119> I got the most basic GoDaddy service
<itnet7> not sure...
<dantalizing> nice MianoSM
<mhall119> I'm operating out of my own pocket, which unfortunately isn't very deep
<NTTP> must go - getting 'the look' from the wife
<pak33m> itnet7: ok let me know
<itnet7> I think we are planning on leaving rockledge around 7:00am
<zoopster> yeesh...mhall119...take up MianoSM offer
<MianoSM> I have access to a couple of data centers, but not all of my hosts are ubuntu.
<dantalizing> NTTP: see ya soon
<itnet7> bye NTTP
<dantalizing> MianoSM: do you have 2u of rack space?
<pak33m> itnet7: will you have your boots polished by then too
<mhall119> MianoSM: if you would be willing to host it that would be wonderful
<itnet7> lol
<itnet7> we are going to try to make it on time for 10
<pak33m> itnet7: do you have room for me
<itnet7> Of course!
<pak33m> itnet7: nice well i have gas money for you
<mhall119> MianoSM: our charity email is info@quinncoincorporated.org
<pak33m> wow that was like high school
<itnet7> Pak33m, no worries!
<pak33m> giving gas money that is
<mhall119> We're also going to have a vendor table at this year's Autism Walk at MOSI, on March 28th, if anyone was going to be attending that come look for us
<pak33m> talk to you all later. wife is not calling but i have to sleep
<dantalizing> MOSI?
<dantalizing> later pak33m
<zoopster> Museum of Science and Industry
<mhall119> and we've just picked 10 4th and 5th grade students from a Plant City elementary school that we're sending computers to as soon as I get them built
<zoopster> very cool place
<zoopster> mosi.org
<mhall119> if you sign up for the walk, you get free admission for the day
<zoopster> see ya pak33m
<mhall119> and they usually have free food too, hotdogs and such
<mhall119> Anybody know where I can get professionally produced CDs, on the cheap?
<dantalizing> mhall119: i've looked online before, but not really ever used any of them
<dantalizing> ok i'm out
<dantalizing> thx everyone
<mhall119> thanks dantalizing
<MianoSM> g'nite
<zoopster> see ya
<zoopster> mhall119: define cheap
<mhall119> under $200
<zoopster> for how many
<mhall119> I'd like at least 50, but there were 10,000 participants at last year's walk, so as many as I can get for my budget
<mhall119> I'd even take blank CD-Rs that have been professionally printed, and I can burn them myself
<zoopster> there are a few guys around tampa with burners that do this sort of thing...I have never used any of them and I don't have a list any more...you should be able to get 500+ for $200 if you have everything already setup (artwork and burned cd)
<mhall119> local shops or national chains?
<zoopster> local shops with duplicators...I'd start with the mom&pop printer shops
<zoopster> cd's in bulk are el cheapo anymore and the setup is a piece of cake...with the economy...I'll bet you can do good
<mhall119> I'll check around, got to get a Tampa yellow pages
<zoopster> I'll try to search around this week and will ping your info@ email if I find something
<mhall119> thanks
<zoopster> superpages.com
<mhall119> I work in St. Pete, so I'll check around there too
<zoopster> I have plenty of yellow pages if you want one...and am in tampa...we're having a f2f meeting on Saturday...http://meetup.com/Tampa-Linux if interested
<zoopster> I can bring a copy
<mhall119> Unfortunately I have to finish moving my stuff out of my old house this weekend, so I can't attent
<dantalizing> morning esarjeant
<jamesrfla> back
<jamesrfla> What did I miss?
<zoopster> mhall119: bummer...oh well, next time
<mhall119> yeah, now that I found the LoCo channel, I'll be here more often
<mhall119> what do you do at the meetups?
<jamesrfla> cool mhall119
<itnet7> first half hour is devoted to jump-ins
<itnet7> j/k
<mhall119> is there a way to save a bookmark or something to a channel in Pidgin?
<jamesrfla> you mean like a log?
<mhall119> no, so that I can easily find my way back here without having to remember the channel name
<jamesrfla> o
<jamesrfla> buddies>add chat
<mhall119> cool, thanks
<elementc> well, im out
<jamesrfla> night all cya
<itnet7> gnight all
<mhall119> good night
</pre>
