{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

05:26	dholbach	shall we move on to the Florida team for now?

05:27	bordy	hooray!

=== bordy ducks

=== johnc4510 is here to cheer on Florida Team Approval Florida Team exemplifiies the Ubuntu Spirit and advocates 

effectively!! I highly recommned their approval

=== DoctorMO [n=mowens@static-68-236-120-95.bstnma.east.verizon.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

=== nixternal chears on Florida!!! GO BORDY!

05:27	DoctorMO	heya

05:27	bordy	:)

=== peanutb also cheers for Florida

=== statik is here to support florida

05:28	pak33m	hooray for Florida and sunshine too

05:28	H264	I met pak33m... seems like a worthy state :)

05:28	bordy	H264: be fair, any state with pak33m is a worthwhile place to be

05:28	nixternal	CC: I can actually say that I am totally impressed by the rapid growth that the Florida 
team has gone through in the past months. They have taken on quite a bit and ran right through it nicely. 
Definitely a functional and outstanding LoCo team

05:28	dholbach	the wiki pages look very good

05:28	bordy	thanks nixternal

05:29	dholbach	what are the projects in the past you are most proud of? which went best?

05:29	nixternal	even though bordy switched back to Gnome from KDE, I still kind of like him and the team :p

05:29	dholbach	how long does the team exist now?

05:29	bordy	Team started March 3rd I believe. Maybe the 1st.

05:29	bordy	early march

05:29	jsgotangco	"BBS updates"

05:29	jsgotangco	:)

05:30	statik	I joined the team in early march and have been surprised to see it grow to 98 members by now

05:30	bordy	I think I personally am most proud of helping with BarCamp, I helped set it up even though I ended 
up not going, but we had a strong presence there, with at least one presentation (statik would know better), and 
definitely got the word out on Ubuntu within the Central Florida corridor

=== macogw [n=maco@unaffiliated/macogw] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:30	kjcole	nixternal: I think they're a Mickey Mouse operation and a little Goofy. ;-)  (And I don't even 
know any of them.)

05:30	nixternal	lol

05:30	mako	your upcoming events page seems to be quite out of date

05:30	MikeB	Florida is a big state, what area are you active and have meetings? how are you expanding to the 
rest of the state

05:30	bordy	Mako: the person who was doing that left, and we are trying to restructure that

05:31	pak33m	we have a just started a projects page as well

05:31	bordy	MikeB: we are most active in central florida, with tampa/orlando area... have a few outliers in 
Tallahassee and Miami, but mostly central.

05:31	statik	I see people active in jacksonville, ft lauderdale, tampa, orlando, and the space coast

05:31	statik	because the state is so distributed it is hard to have in person meetups

05:31	bordy	it is a very long state

05:31	jsgotangco	i can imagine that

=== rraphink [i=raphink@ubuntu/member/raphink] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:32	nixternal	bordy: global warming will fix that eventually :p

05:32	seisen	lol

05:33	jsgotangco	how did SFD turn out in the area

05:33	OgMaciel	hahaha

05:33	kjcole	bordy, I can sympathize.  (Back when LoCo's were entire countries, I thought the word "local" to 
be a bit odd.)

05:33	bordy	jsgotangco: our gainesville members organized something at UF, but had very poor turnout from what 
I hear

05:34	dholbach	how many people show up to your IRC meetings? how do you organise things as a team?

05:34	mako	dholbach: dude! i was SO typing that question

05:34	nixternal	ya, one thing I learned, is never attempt to measure success by turnout....Chicago has 
seen its poor turnout as well

05:34	dholbach	mako: sorry for that :)

05:34	DoctorMO	It's dificult to include people from an entire state, even smaller ones like MA. we've 
taken to holding a once every 3 month meeting in central MA just for this problem

05:35	statik	the irc channel is pretty active all week, from 10-20 users normally

05:35	bordy	dholbach: our IRC meetings usually around 25ish, pak33m runs the meetings (because he's the hammer)

05:35	mako	sounds great

05:35	bordy	meetings pull in some of the other active members who tend not to idle with us

05:35	statik	I always skip the weekly meetings, but we get a lot of people on IRC during the week asking 
questions and getting assistance

05:35	mako	well i'd love to see more attempts at the IRL projects

05:35	mako	because they are very effective and help build community

05:35	mako	even if not all in the past have been successful

05:35	mako	but i'm thrilled with the online communit you've built and am happy with a +1

05:36	mako	you should clean up the vents page.. even blank it

05:36	mako	it looks real

05:36	nixternal	groovy

05:36	jsgotangco	dude, they have a BBS!

05:36	mako	out of date :)

05:36	bordy	mako: thinking about dropping it altogether

05:36	nixternal	BBS?

05:36	nixternal	no way

05:36	bordy	oh yeah a bbs

05:36	bordy	one of our youngins made it for us

05:36	mako	bordy: that's better than keeping it out of date like that

05:36	DoctorMO	whatis BBS?

05:36	mako	bordy: it makes you look inactive

05:36	statik	mako: one of the brevard members is planning an in person meeting after the gutsy release, 
presenting to a couple of other user groups

05:36	bordy	mako: indeed. I think there are better ways of organizing it anyway

05:37	kjcole	DoctorMO: Bulletin Board System

05:37	macogw	i'm with DoctorMO....what's...oh ok

05:37	macogw	kjcole: you type too fast

05:37	nixternal	that is funny, a youngin made a BBS....

05:37	statik	it's not a real BBS, it's just a server with SSH enabled

=== nixternal reflects the BBS days now

=== macd hugs vbbs

05:37	jsgotangco	yeah i just looked at the forum pages

05:37	statik	but it's neat that he set it up despite being so young

05:38	bordy	he teaches me stuff. I'm not ashamed. lol

05:38	dholbach	how do you think your POA is coming along?

05:38	dholbach	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/POA

05:38	nixternal	ya, usually BBS's today are created by old people :p

05:38	jelkner	is there a scheduled time for the membership approval part of this meeting?

=== mdz_ [n=mdz@87.254.91.171] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:38	dholbach	what kind of activity are most people involved in?

05:38	jelkner	i fear i'll need to leave before it starts

05:38	dholbach	jelkner: this is the last agenda point before we do membership approval

=== reya276 [n=rangeles@70.158.34.66] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:38	dholbach	jelkner: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CommunityCouncilAgenda

05:39	macogw	jelkner: got a class to teach?

05:39	bordy	dholbach I think its coming along nicely, we are getting more organized, more directed, and the 
subteam leaders are really coming through for us

05:39	statik	dholbach: I'd guess most folks are doing advocacy stuff, I'm trying to learn more about packaging 
(got several in-process right now)

05:40	dholbach	statik: that's great to hear - if you have questions or can get people interested in MOTU, 
let me know

05:40	dholbach	I'm happy with +1 too, seems some healthy action and good structure in the team

05:40	bordy	dholbach: once I learn something at all I would love to learn about packaging

05:40	statik	dholbach: will do, thanks for the help in #ubuntu-motu so far.

05:40	bordy	lol

05:40	dholbach	statik: de rien :)

05:40	dholbach	bordy: rock on, let me know when you want to get started on that

05:41	dholbach	MikeB, jsgotangco: any more questions?

=== ianmcorvidae [n=ianmcorv@ip72-211-151-55.tc.ph.cox.net] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:41	MikeB	dholbach: none here

05:41	jsgotangco	i'm fine, giving my +1, please just update some of your pages (Events, etc)

05:41	bordy	yeah that events page might be sayin bye bye

05:42	dholbach	it might be worth looking into: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BuildingCommunity/TeamReporting

05:42	jsgotangco	its alright to start virtual teams for now for such a big state

05:42	mako	i turn into a pumpkin in 45 minutes, so lets get through as much as we can :)

05:42	MikeB	+1 here also

05:42	dholbach	congratulations florida!

05:42	mako	are we waiting on anyone?

=== johnc4510 w00t congrats to the Florida Team nice job!!

05:42	jsgotangco	what really needs to be nurtured is the activities that you guys take part of, even tough 
not as a big group

05:42	bordy	hooray!

05:42	pak33m	dholbach: i will be looking at the reporting page and reporting in general for Florida

05:42	dholbach	pak33m: great :)

05:43	bordy	jsgotangco: we're trying to branch, not getting too much interaction with local lugs, but we'll 
get there.

05:43	nixternal	j1mc isn't around, so you can skip him

05:43	dholbach	ok, let's move on; I think jelkner has to leave in a bit; shall we get him first?

05:43	elmo	+1

05:43	kjcole	+1

=== Spec [n=Spec@ubuntu/member/spec] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:43	dholbach	jelkner: your stage

=== Joe_CoT [n=Joe_CoT@ubuntu/member/joeterranova] has joined #ubuntu-meeting

05:44	dholbach	it's been quite a while since we met in Sydney - what happened since then? :)

05:44	elmo	(that was to the florida team, sorry - tho it may be moot)
