{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Meeting opened by mhall119 at 23:59 ==
 <''''''> okay, I'm chairing today's meeting instead of itnet7, but he's still here

 <''''''> im here

 <''''''> tonight's agenda can be found here: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Meetings#Agenda

 <''''''> if anybody wants to add something to it, go ahead and do it now

 <''''''> [TOPIC] UDS-N (11.04) Will be held in Orlando, Oct 25-29. Plan team participation.

=== UDS-N (11.04) Will be held in Orlando, Oct 25-29. Plan team participation. ===
 <''''''> yay

 <''''''> in case some of you haven't heard the news, the next Ubuntu Developer Summit will be held right here in Florida

* '''''' hopes he can go

 <''''''> crashsystems: it isn't close enough for ya? (j/k)

 <''''''> UDS is a twice-yearly gathering of Canonical employees and community developers, where the focus of the next Ubuntu version is mapped out

 <''''''> it's a great opportunity for all of to attend at minimal expense

 <''''''> Can non developers go?

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> as far as I know, attendence is free and open to anybody

 <''''''> heck, I'm planning on being there.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://uds.recreantview.org/ has some preliminary information''
|}

 <''''''> http://uds.recreantview.org/ has some preliminary information

 <''''''> That is true, but you should make sure that you register when it's available on LP please!

 <''''''> sponsorship is available to community members, but it's merit based and there's a limited number of sponsorships

 <''''''> several of our members have been to previous UDSs, like itnet7, dantalizing and cjohnston 

 <''''''> then can give you first-hand accounts for how awesome it is

 <''''''> so if you can make it, all week or just a day or too, it would certainly be worthwhile

 <''''''> you'll also be able to meet people like Mark Shuttleworth, Jono Bacon and other big names in Ubuntu

 <''''''> OMG it's practically next to where FLS was held lol

 <''''''> and me.. ;-)

 <''''''> itnet7: the facility is *really* nice

 <''''''> if anybody from the north or south of the state is planning on driving, let others know so you can carpool

 <''''''> at our next irregularly scheduled meeting, I'd like to start gathering a list of who in our team is going, and how they're getting there

* '''''' pops into existence.

 <''''''> to make sure we have as many participants as want to attend

 <''''''> hey chaynie

 <''''''> The meeting schedule is posted above the agenda for the rest of the year

 <''''''> itnet7: I'll believe it when it happens ;)

 <''''''> what did I miss?

 <''''''> wrt: the meeting.

 <''''''> if anybody has any ideas for activities or anything we can do as a team as a part of UDS, lets start thinking about them and bring them up next meeting

 <''''''> chaynie: takling about UDS

 <''''''> is there anything loco teams typically do in regards to uds?

 <''''''> we need to rock some kind of afterparty, or some such.

 <''''''> mhall119: ah, ok

 <''''''> one of us will post links to register when they're available

 <''''''> crashsystems: good question, itnet7 what's your experience onthat?

 <''''''> Attend, give ideas, and follow through when asked to do something

 <''''''> mornig sorry i'm late

 <''''''> and have a lot of fun!

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: usually on the last night of UDS there is an all-stars night, Food, Music and libations

 <''''''> itnet7: were there any local loco specific activities at past UDS's?

 <''''''> like a host activity?

 <''''''> mhall119: not really that I can recall, they held a team meeting in one of the conference rooms

 <''''''> again, as you think of ideas, put them on the agenda for next week's meeting

 <''''''> morning erictee

 <''''''> mhall119 itnet7: I think we should start that tradition. Maybe have a welcome to orlando party for uds attendees?

 <''''''> In Barcelona, they hung out a lot with everyone but there were like 5 team members for the catalan team

 <''''''> chaynie: that's what I was thinking too

 <''''''> itnet7: what do you think about hitting up jorge to have the loco be crew for this uds

 <''''''> we certainly have enough people who i'm thinking will volunteer

 <''''''> hi all

 <''''''> dantalizing: does crew get to participate in the sessions?

 <''''''> mhall119: depends on the job ... mostly though

 <''''''> dantalizing: I don't think it's a bad idea, but for most of our team it will be their first time

 <''''''> good point

 <''''''> it'd be nice if some of your Orlando guys would help out-of-town(state, country) folks find their way around town too

 <''''''> I think we can definitely come up with some cool ideas on things to do off-site, and list many good recommended places to go

* '''''' knows how to get from one side of Orlando to the other via I-4

 <''''''> I'll be happy to serve as crew, since I won't participate in the sessions anyway.  That is, assuming I can rummage up some kid-care for the chirrens.

 <''''''> so that they get good deals, and eat good food, etc.

 <''''''> mhall119: I'll be happy to do what I can. I'm planning to take that week off.

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: I think there will be quite a few sessions for you. ;-)

 <''''''> I'm sure there will be a community track again this time, so even if you're not a developer, please try and attend those as representative members of the community

* '''''' has all of Oct. and Nov. off for UDS

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> cjohnston: and nov?

 <''''''> that's some after party

 <''''''> Crew Does get a T-shirt so it's not all that bad and it's usually only one days duty

 <''''''> lol.. When I took the time off, I didn't know when it was... 

 <''''''> itnet7: do you think it would be worth having a FloridaTeam/UDS-N wiki page?

 <''''''> Sure!

 <''''''> who wants to make a wiki page?

 <''''''> I can

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Change LoCo Birthday Bash to correspond with UDS-N?

=== Change LoCo Birthday Bash to correspond with UDS-N? ===
 <''''''> so, we had been planning on holding the second annual LoCo Birthday Bash in the first week or November 

 <''''''> but now I'm wondering if we should move it up a week to coincide with UDS

 <''''''> or push it back to give us all a chance to recover from UDS

 <''''''> if we move it up, I'm thinking we do it the Sunday before UDS starts

 <''''''> as most attendees will be in town by then, and can join if they want to

 <''''''> mhall119: just my opinion but I would move it back, Too much stuff is going to be ge going on around that time... just my opinion

 <''''''> and our members who can't make UDS during the week, would still have a chance to hang out with some of them

 <''''''> mhall119: it would make an excellent uds pre-party.

 <''''''> we couldn't do it at my house again, we were at capacity last year as it was

 <''''''> but I was thinking a gathering in Orlando somewhere

 <''''''> at a park or something

 <''''''> I'd be happy to bring BBQ along

 <''''''> OMG

 <''''''> that would be cool 

 <''''''> Have they announced where in orlando uds is being held? By disney? or possibly near the airport?

 <''''''> if we could have a geeknic

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> chaynie: http://uds.recreantview.org/travel/

 <''''''> close to disney

 <''''''> itnet7: if we want to do a geeknic the sunday before, I'll start planning now

 <''''''> 535 and I drive area chaynie 

 <''''''> cjohnston: know of any good parks around there where we can reserve a pavillion?

 <''''''> not down there I dont

 <''''''> I can talk to Hope

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: I am not sure, I think it would Rock and a lot of people would be here in time as most of them will arrive on Saturday usually

 <''''''> itnet7: she wasn't disagreeing

 <''''''> main problem is gonna be food imo

 <''''''> Turkey lake park

 <''''''> is nearby

 <''''''> cjohnston: I can bring a host of meats

 <''''''> well, like 10-15 minutes away, but still

 <''''''> mhall119: I didn't mean it in a bad way

 <''''''> okay, so tentatively let's plan for a geeknic on the 24th of October, details to come, I'll add it to loco.ubuntu.com

 <''''''> I was just thinking that it might really be a good idea considering that most of them should have arrived, we would at least get a good percentage of community members to come

 <''''''> my suggestion would be that as the UDS page foms (not the Florida UDS page but the regular one) start getting an interest level from the attending community

 <''''''> itnet7: definitely

 <''''''> would be cool to bill this as us (florida loco) throwing uds attendees a party

 <''''''> imo

 <''''''> dantalizing: +1

 <''''''> [ACTION] mhall119 to add Florida Team welcome geeknic to loco.ubuntu.com

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' mhall119 to add Florida Team welcome geeknic to loco.ubuntu.com''
|}

 <''''''> Do you want to see if we can rent a hall instead? 

 <''''''> Alright, I'm gonna ask the pointed question.  How does everyone propose we go about paying for this shin dig?

 <''''''> itnet7: might get costly

 <''''''> i'm in to contribute

 <''''''> that was what I was getting at with my comment about food

 <''''''> I'm in to contribute some BBQ, or purchase hot dogs and hamburgers or something

 <''''''> My main concern is renting a location first and foremost.

 <''''''> would a $5 cover for acceptable?

 <''''''> if other people are willing to bring sides and drinks, we've got that covered, and we just need a venue

 <''''''> just throwing it out there.

 <''''''> no cover

 <''''''> do parks cost money?

 <''''''> not much of a welcome party if we charge admission

 <''''''> +1 dantalizing 

 <''''''> crashsystems: I don't believe so

 <''''''> crashsystems: reserving a spot sometimes does

 <''''''> crashsystems renting the pavillion usually does

 <''''''> If we can get a ball park Idea of cost, we can try and raise some support

 <''''''> I like that idea

 <''''''> I would chip-in

 <''''''> I'll start doing some calling this wee

 <''''''> week

 <''''''> even

 <''''''> With Orange County parks.. IIRC.. Pavillions are first come first serve, and no cost.. but dont quote me

 <''''''> cool

 <''''''> can we designate someone with a paypal account to handle reservations, and have people send them money?

 <''''''> We did Paige's first party at one, and thats how it was

 <''''''> we can send mhall119 to camp out :)

 <''''''> I'm wondering if we can get a ballroom at the hotel, on the off chance we can afford it

 <''''''> cjohnston: +1. dantalizing -1

 <''''''> We might be able to ask Canonical for one of the ballrooms On Sunday evening!

 <''''''> itnet7: I like the way you think

 <''''''> and provide Pizza, and a Geek Movie!

 <''''''> itnet7: do you think they'll have them Sunday?

 <''''''> mhall119 camping +1

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: ask!

 <''''''> will do

 <''''''> itnet7: that could be cool.. if they have them

 <''''''> itnet7: Hackers perhaps?

 <''''''> I think they might

 <''''''> gag

 <''''''> hackers

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> itnet7: whom in Canonical should we ask about that?

 <''''''> crash and burn!

 <''''''> pssh, the only true geek movie is "the net".

 <''''''> Hack The Planet!

 <''''''> mhall119: I can e-mail Maria

 <''''''> itnet7: thanks

 <''''''> somethign else to check

 <''''''> or even you can if you want to

 <''''''> not maria

 <''''''> itnet7: give her my contact info, we'll go from there

 <''''''> Marianna

 <''''''> [ACTION] itnet7 to email Maria about using a ballroom for a host party

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' itnet7 to email Maria about using a ballroom for a host party''
|}

 <''''''> too late

 <''''''> There were a couple of hotels that I was wishing it would be at because of their like for the fire department. but we arent at them

 <''''''> It's okay I know who

 <''''''> canonical may be doing all hands the week before in orlando ... 

 <''''''> need to check with zoopster/statik

 <''''''> dantalizing: really?

 <''''''> I thought they just had one of those in Prague

 <''''''> they did in belgium

 <''''''> mhall119: they have in the past 

 <''''''> forgot about that

 <''''''> oh, ok

 <''''''> they don't have it every time, so let's doublecheck

 <''''''> IIRC they do that before every UDS

 <''''''> well, if they can spare the space, everyone's invited

 <''''''> oh, nvm

 <''''''> crashsystems: they didn't in Texas is what I'm going by

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> but you never know

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> anything else on this topic before we move on?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Establish some kind of rules for selecting meeting chairs, team contacts and team admins

=== Establish some kind of rules for selecting meeting chairs, team contacts and team admins ===
 <''''''> so, our team has grown and changed quite a bit since I joined almost 2 years ago

 <''''''> lies

 <''''''> and for the most part, a lot of the responsibility of leadership and organizing has still be placed on a small number of people

 <''''''> and it's no small burden, I know

 <''''''> we need to establish some rules for distributing that responsibility among the rest of us

 <''''''> itnet7 has mentioned in the past a desire for rotating meeting chairs

 <''''''> I think we should probably cycle leadership responsibility around, to prevent burnout.

 <''''''> which is part of the reason why I'm chairing tonight's meeting

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> we also have a loco point of contact, which has been itnet7 for probably about as long as the team's been around

 <''''''> How about an annually elected chair position?

 <''''''> and multiple team admins, who have extra control over things like the launchpad group and loco.ubuntu.com details

 <''''''> chaynie: that's what we need to work out, how often to hold elections, who's eligible as a candidate, who's eligible to vote, etc

 <''''''> itnet7: dantalizing: do you guys know how this is handle in other teams, and how well those processes work?

 <''''''> different teams handle things differently ... they all do what works for them

 <''''''> chaynie: for meeting chairs I'd rather cycle more frequently than say, the contact or admins

 <''''''> mhall119: usually a contact steps down when they are ready, with that being said, I would just appreciate some help

 <''''''> some teeams have had to institute formal procedures because member complained abot one thing or another

 <''''''> other teams quietly work together

 <''''''> and ideas on how to do things more efficiently

 <''''''> the u-w team has just elected a triumvirate, who share leadership responsibilites.

 <''''''> I'd like to see set elections, if for no other reason than to give the current leaders an opportunity to decline another cycle

 <''''''> our team doesn't really need much in the way of direction, our leadership is more about maintenance I think

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: Because history has shown triumvirates to work out well. ;)

 <''''''> chaynie: hey, wasn't my idea.  just how they do it.

 <''''''> i'd strongly suggest elections over appointments.

 <''''''> I'm more interested in a point of contact for the loco-council, and admins to maintain LP and LD information

 <''''''> mhall119: well, maybe we cycle meeting chair monthly, and team admin annually or bi-annually?

 <''''''> chaynie: that's kind of what I was thinking

 <''''''> we have 4 admins, currently

 <''''''> we can set them on 4-year cycles, voting on one a year, unless one wants to step down

 <''''''> i think we should have this discussion f2f ... becuase any disagreemnet i have is gonna come off sounding self-serving

 <''''''> but i'll throw this out

 <''''''> dantalizing: a good idea

 <''''''> i'm against popularity contests, they divide the team

 <''''''> i'm pro meritocracy

 <''''''> i think we have a very informal allocation of admin right now

 <''''''> several people here are admins on the website, there are several adminns for loco dir

 <''''''> I didn't think people would be rushing out to get themselves in these positions, actually, it's a lot of work and not much prestige

 <''''''> dantalizing: conversely, reducing the pool like that also creates an "elite" and an "underclass", who have no real power.

 <''''''> i dont think we're *not* getting people involved in more leadership positions

 <''''''> got a call.. bbl

 <''''''> cjohnston: be safe

 <''''''> cjohnston: take care.

 <''''''> i'm done .. i'd prefer the core people has this out f2f ... but i'm good with whatever is decided is best

 <''''''> what if the current leader simply picked the next leader, who could either accept or not?

 <''''''> i do agree with dantalizing about doing this f2f

 <''''''> To be honest, I have discussed in the past, with mhall119 and others that I wanted to try and formalize roles, what I would have liked to see is the team begin fucntioning as a team first

 <''''''> chaynie: thats what we've done in the past

 <''''''> dantalizing: I don't want anybody deciding who is "core" and who isn't, personally

 <''''''> Then worry about contacts, administrators, etc, later

 <''''''> chaynie: because if we ever had a problem with a current leader, as has happened in other locos, we wouldn't want them picking a successor

 <''''''> mhall119: core = whoever decides to show ... no restrictions

 <''''''> but just making that announcement is self selecting

 <''''''> dantalizing: with a face to face, that may be more about means than merit

 <''''''> mhall119: not following

 <''''''> dantalizing: he's referring to some not being able attend due to finances, I believe

 <''''''> dantalizing: if we're gonna say the decision is going to be made in a face to face meeting in $city, then only people who can afford to go there when it's happening will have a say

 <''''''> possibly

 <''''''> for now, can we all at least agree on rotating the meeting chair on a monthly basis?

 <''''''> that'll give itnet7 some help

 <''''''> We could have like a mini electoral college or something.

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> mhall119: +1 meeting chair

 <''''''> chaynie: only if we can hang our chads

 <''''''> mhall119: that's really discriminatory to people named chad.

* '''''' volunteers to chair the next meeting, if needed.

 <''''''> okay, since I'm doing it today, I'm happy to do it again in 2 weeks, and we'll select the chair for September then, does anybody have an objection to that?

 <''''''> nope

 <''''''> googlefight for chair of next meeting since we have 2 volunteers

 <''''''> heh, chaynie can have it if he wants it

 <''''''> googlefight?

 <''''''> paper/rocks/scissors go!

 <''''''> the pay sucks

 <''''''> I can wait till september, if that's easier.

 <''''''> crashsystems: .com

 <''''''> Am I late?

 <''''''> :-s

 <''''''> a little LinkinX 

 <''''''> :-)

 <''''''> o_O

 <''''''> dang

 <''''''> lol

 <''''''> [AGREED] mhall119 will chair Aug. 17th meeting, chaynie to chair Sept. 7th and 21st meetings

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' mhall119 will chair Aug. 17th meeting, chaynie to chair Sept. 7th and 21st meetings''
|}

 <''''''> I just got home

 <''''''> the good news is LinkinX, you beat generic 

 <''''''> hoo well... that is always good

 <''''''> so what are the headlines?

 <''''''> any meetings?

 <''''''> dantalizing, what>

 <''''''> We are in a meeting still

 <''''''> just teasing ya generic 

 <''''''> and we'll work out more of the details on the other positions, either on IRC or the mailing list

 <''''''> no i dont get it

 <''''''> is everybody on the lists.ubuntu.com mailing list?

 <''''''> if not, you should be

 <''''''> meh

 <''''''> how do you check?

 <''''''> I am

 <''''''> im about to try crunchbang linux

 <''''''> has anyone tried it?

 <''''''> its a ubuntu derivative btw

 <''''''> X-Man: go to lists.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-us-fl or -florida, i forget ... and subscribe

 <''''''> -fl I think

 <''''''> generic: i ran crunchbang a long time back .. i really like it

 <''''''> nice

 <''''''> sound really cool

 <''''''> https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-fl

 <''''''> and the iso is done downloading

 <''''''> I think we should probably meet in person before uds to get our uds plans squared away.

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> chaynie: probably a good idea

 <''''''> chaynie: yeah, we'll probably have an in-person meeting in Orlando sometime early October

 <''''''> okay, moving on

* '''''' wishes he could go

 <''''''> wait what network is this?

 <''''''> Efnet

 <''''''> ?

 <''''''> [TOPIC] Global Jam, and other events.

=== Global Jam, and other events. ===
 <''''''> freenode.

 <''''''> LinkinX: freenode

 <''''''> ok

 <''''''> brb

 <''''''> it's Ubuntu Global Jam time again

 <''''''> ?

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FF5555>'' http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/195/detail/''
|}

 <''''''> http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/195/detail/

 <''''''> Jammin'.

 <''''''> I miss jamalta already. :(

 <''''''> it's Aug. 27th to the 29th

 <''''''> thanks mhall119 !

 <''''''> sorry

 <''''''> so start thinking about what you can do in your area

 <''''''> +1

 <''''''> mhall119: is holding a bbq jam

 <''''''> mhall119: I think we can do some sort of jam in orlando.

 <''''''> you can participate remotely ?  Correct ?

 <''''''> also, anybody who is on our launchpad team can add events for our team in loco.ubuntu.com, so please use it

 <''''''> erictee: yes

 <''''''> erictee: you can alos organize for miami ;)

 <''''''> dantalizing: that's my first week back in school, so I probably won't :(

 <''''''> I can do a bbq jam at mhall119's house, if it works for everyone.

 <''''''> :P

 <''''''> We're *all* starting school that week, so, um, no.

 <''''''> chaynie: you'll have to be here mighty early to start cooking

 <''''''> also, you'd have to wear my OMG WTF BBQ apron

 <''''''> and chef hat

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: That sounds like fun.

 <''''''> mhall119: Bring it.

 <''''''> rofl

 <''''''> chaynie: and nothing else

 <''''''> I'm taking a feminist literature class.  So...

 <''''''> dangerous

 <''''''> mhall119: And what do I get for defeating your challenge.

 <''''''> ?

 <''''''> chaynie: a lifetime of embarrasment, and ribs

 <''''''> itnet7: did you have anything you wanted to add to the topic?

 <''''''> No, thanks you hit the points I wanted to hit, except

 <''''''> if you're going to have an event, go here: http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/global/195/detail/

 <''''''> I would like others to think of some other events beside the global jam

 <''''''> log in, then click the "Add your Team's Event" link, that'll automatically have your new event linked to the global even

 <''''''> If I hosted something in Orlando, who would be interested in attending?

 <''''''> possibly, would depend on when and where

 <''''''> mhall119: Would Saturday or Sunday work better?

 <''''''> I would :-)

 <''''''> MichelleQ, they have feminist literature classes?

 <''''''> WHen do we have a bbq?

 <''''''> saturday, or before night time on Sunday

 <''''''> generic: yes.  

 <''''''> too late on Sunday, and I couldn't make it

 <''''''> is that even legal?

 <''''''> chaynie: i'd go on a weekend day

 <''''''> generic: don't play with fire

 <''''''> chaynie: i would be interested as well

 <''''''> So does this class teach people how to be a better feminist or something?

 <''''''> either sat or sunday

 <''''''> when you create an event, send an email to the mailing list to let everyone know, so we can register as coming or not

 <''''''> or is it *about* feminism

 <''''''> or something

 <''''''> yes

 <''''''> generic: *literature*

 <''''''> a lof of people close to Naples?

 <''''''> MichelleQ, yes to which?

 <''''''> chaynie: Sat would work for us, depending on kid-friendliness

 <''''''> linkinx: I'm in Lakeland, and I think there's some in Ft. Myers area

 <''''''> but I think that's it

 <''''''> generic: There are a number of classic literary works that related directly to feminism. Off the top of my head, the works of Charlotte Gilman come to mind.

 <''''''> mhall119, BBQ?

 <''''''> linkinx: possibly, maybe, in October

 <''''''> +ZAe m 

 <''''''> +

 <''''''> I am a hungry bbq cuban

 <''''''> :D

 <''''''> Thanks! mhall119 for chairing

 <''''''> crap

 <''''''> sorry, cat

 <''''''> [TOPIC] open 

=== open ===
 <''''''> if anybody has anything they'd like to discuss before I end the meeting

 <''''''> chaynie, are they good?

 <''''''> chaynie: I've enjoyed what I

 <''''''> talking to yourself?

 <''''''> I've read, but "good" is very subjective.

 <''''''> chaynie: I like you for a reason.  :-D

 <''''''> hmmmm

 <''''''> okay, if there's nothing else, I'm going to go ahead and call this meeting over

 <''''''> So its like philosophy?

 <''''''> Is there going to be a FLS this Year?

 <''''''> going once

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: *blushes*

 <''''''> X-Man: the site is active-ish

 <''''''> itnet7: dantalizing: have you heard anything definative about FLS?

 <''''''> mhall119: stick a fork in it, it's dead

 <''''''> back

 <''''''> cjohnston: quick call

 <''''''> mhall119: not really

 <''''''> i actually just sent an email about that about 2 mins ago

 <''''''> ok, I'll hammer out the orlando jam details in the coming weeks on IRC.

 <''''''> which I plan to return to active participation. Really.

 <''''''> chaynie: does that mean we'll see you around here more often?

 <''''''> mhall119: bs call

 <''''''> cjohnston: did you hose them down anyway?

 <''''''> chaynie: if there's anything I can do to help from this distance, let me know.  My days are pretty open.

 <''''''> MichelleQ1: Thanks. I'll keep your posted.

 <''''''> mhall119: we used an extinguisher

 <''''''> #endmeeting

----
== Meeting closed at 01:06 ==
=== People Present ===
* mhall119

* patx

* cjohnston

* crashsystems

* itnet7

* X-Man

* MichelleQ1

* chaynie

* dantalizing

* erictee

* LinkinX

* generic

* linkinx

* dorgan

=== Actions Recorded ===
* mhall119 to add Florida Team welcome geeknic to loco.ubuntu.com

* itnet7 to email Maria about using a ballroom for a host party
