{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Table of Contents'''<<BR>>
|}
== Release Notes for Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS Focal Fossa ==

Please see <nowiki>[[FocalFossa-ReleaseNotes]]</nowiki> for general Ubuntu release notes.

Ubuntu Studio shares some of the desktop features with Xubuntu. Please see <nowiki>[[http://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/20.04/release-notes | Xubuntu release notes]]</nowiki> for additional information.

<<BR>>
== Getting Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS ==

=== Download a Disk Image ===
* <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/20.04/release | Bootable images for standard PCs/laptops]]</nowiki>

Instructions for burning the image to a DVD or USB flash drive can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto | Burning ISO Howto]]</nowiki>.

=== Check MD5SUM for the downloaded ISO ===
It is recommended to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HowToMD5SUM | check your image file]]</nowiki> so your installation goes smoothly. Compare your MD5 checksum with the correct ones found <nowiki>[[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/20.04/release/MD5SUMS | alongside the images]]</nowiki>.

=== Upgrading to Ubuntu Studio 20.04 ===
'''NOTE: Upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS from 19.10 are enabled anywhere from a few days to a few weeks after release. Upgrades to Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS from 18.04 are enabled after the first point-release (20.04.1), which will be in August.'''

If you have enabled the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/BackportsPPA | Ubuntu Studio Backports PPA]]</nowiki>, be sure to remove it.

To remove the Backports PPA, open a terminal window and type:

<pre>
 sudo apt install ppa-purge
 sudo ppa-purge ppa:ubuntustudio-ppa/backports
</pre>

If for whatever reason this PPA removal fails, continue with the upgrade as usual.

'''To upgrade:'''

Open a terminal and type the following:
<pre>
 sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

Follow the instructions in the terminal.

<<BR>>
== Changes for this release (compared to 19.10 Eoan Ermine) ==

* The package/metapackage selection screen has been removed from the Ubiquity (live session) installer due to a bug which caused unwanted packages to be removed.

=== Audio ===

* '''<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/UbuntuStudioControls|Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki>''' has been upgraded to Version 1.12.4. Many changes have been made for the Eoan Release, and the following is a summary of some of those changes:
** Audio setup tab is split into three tabs: Jack Master Settings, Extra Devices, Pulse Bridging
** Firewire devices are no longer available under Ubuntu Studio Controls unless they work with ALSA. Consider upgrading to a modern USB or PCIe audio interface to take advantage of everything Ubuntu Studio Controls has to offer.
** PulseAudio bridges can now be named by the user
** Multiple bug fixes
** For more information about Ubuntu Studio Controls, see:
** The README
** The manpages for ubuntustudio-controls, autojack and ubuntustudio-system
* RaySession has been upgraded to version 0.8.3
* Audacity upgraded to version 2.3.3
* Hydrogen upgraded to 1.0.0-beta2
* Carla upgraded to 2.1
* Patchage has been dropped from the Ubuntu repositories due to the removal of Python2.
** We recommend Carla for those that rely on graphical patchbays such as Patchage for their workflows.
* gmidimonitor has been dropped from the Ubuntu repositories due to the removal of Python2.
** midisnoop is now included as a functional equivalent.

=== Graphics ===

* MyPaint has returned to the default installation, version 2.0.0.
* Krita upgraded to version 4.2.9
* Blender upgraded to version 2.82
* Gimp upgraded to 2.10.18
* Rawtherapee upgraded to 5.8
* Darktable upgraded to 3.0.1
* DisplayCAL has been dropped from the Ubuntu repositories due to the removal of Python2.

=== Publishing ===

* Scribus upgraded to 1.5.5
* Calibre upgraded to 4.99

=== Video ===

* OBS Studio upgraded to 25.0.3
* KDEnlive upgraded to 19.12.3
* Libreoffice Impress now included by default

<<BR>>
== Current Version Of Main Multimedia Packages ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/blender | Blender]]</nowiki> v2.82
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdenlive | KDEnlive]]</nowiki> v19.12.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/krita | Krita]]</nowiki> v4.2.9
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gimp | Gimp]]</nowiki> v2.10.18
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ardour | Ardour]]</nowiki> v5.12.0
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/scribus | Scribus]]</nowiki> v1.5.5
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/darktable | Darktable]]</nowiki> v3.0.1 
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pitivi | Pitivi]]</nowiki> v0.999
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/inkscape | Inkscape]]</nowiki> v0.92.4
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/carla | Carla]]</nowiki> v2.1
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntustudio-controls | Ubuntu Studio Controls]]</nowiki> v1.12.4
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/obs-studio | OBS Studio]]</nowiki> v25.0.3
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mypaint | MyPaint ]]</nowiki> v2.0.0

<<BR>>
== Known Problems ==

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1873244|An issue has been identified with the ristretto image viewer]]</nowiki> in which blue "scroll for more" indicators appear within the window, partially covering the image even when the entire image is visible. This is most obvious in the default Ubuntu Studio theme (Materia), but has been identified in other themes and is therefore a bug with ristretto.

* Ubuntu Studio uses the same XFCE desktop environment as the official Xubuntu release, and thus, may be affected by some of the same issues.  This is also true of the core packages of the mainline Ubuntu release.  You can see their release notes <nowiki>[[https://wiki.xubuntu.org/releases/20.04/release-notes|here]]</nowiki> (Xubuntu) and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FocalFossa/ReleaseNotes|here]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu)

* Timidity (not installed by default) has been known to cause problems with audio configurations on Ubuntu and will lock-up ALSA.

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1962055|The Ubiquity Installer]]</nowiki> currently has an issue in which, if selecting auto-resize, you may experience black text inside of black boxes for the partition allocation. One workaround is to change the Xfce theme to a different theme if you wish to auto-resize partitions, e.g. you have another operating system already installed.
 
<<BR>>
== Support ==

Ubuntu Studio 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) will be supported for 36 months (3 years) until April 2023. Users of Ubuntu Studio 19.10 and 18.04 are urged to upgrade at their earliest convenience.

<<BR>>
== Contact Us ==
Ways to contact the Ubuntu Studio Team are listed <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio | here]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryUbuntuStudio
