{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This is the home page for the Ubuntu focus-follows-mouse team.

Information for users can be found at the FocusFollowsMouse page.

Our broad aims are as follows:

* Fix bugs which affect users of focus-follows-mouse.
* Build new features in the spirit of focus-follows-mouse.
* Maintain an Ubuntu PPA against the latest release with bug fixes and new features.
* Provide resources to help people who use or might be interested in using focus-follows-mouse.

This is currently a skeleton page because the team is very new.

=== Getting Involved ===

If you want to get involved, please join the launchpad team and mailing list here:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~focus-follows-mouse|Focus Follows Mouse Team]]</nowiki>

There is also a team for actually dealing with bugs:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~focus-follows-mouse-bugs|Focus Follows Mouse Bugs Team]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~focus-follows-mouse-bugs/+subscribedbugs?field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=OPINION&field.status%3Alist=INVALID&field.status%3Alist=WONTFIX&field.status%3Alist=EXPIRED&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status%3Alist=FIXRELEASED&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE|List of bugs we are subscribed to]]</nowiki>

=== Online Meetings ===

Our IRC channel is #ubuntu-focus-follows-mouse. There are no online meetings scheduled yet.

=== Roadmap ===

* Identify and list possible bugs and features.
* Openly decide what course of action to take in each case.
* Prioritise and allocate work.

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~focus-follows-mouse|Launchpad team page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[irc:--irc.ubuntu.com-ubuntu-focus-follows-mouse|IRC channel]]</nowiki> (#ubuntu-focus-follows-mouse)

=== Current focus ===

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/883383|#883383 Drag title bar should not raise if raise-on-click is disabled]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/880672|#880672 Clicking panel should raise maximised window with raise-on-click disabled]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/674138|#674138 "Global" appmenu breaks sloppy focus]]</nowiki> (see also <nowiki>[[FocusFollowsMouseTeam-GlobalMenu|wiki page]]</nowiki>)

=== PPAs ===

Updated packages for Oneiric are available at '''ppa:focus-follows-mouse-ppa/oneiric'''.

This fixes the following bugs:

* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/881329|#881329 Alt+click should raise with raise-on-click disabled]]</nowiki> (patches: <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~jamespharaoh/ubuntu/oneiric/compiz/focus-follows-mouse/view/head:/debian/patches/fix-881329.patch|compiz]]</nowiki>)
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/883383|#883383 Drag title bar should not raise if raise-on-click is disabled]]</nowiki> (patches: <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~focus-follows-mouse/ubuntu/oneiric/compiz/fix-883383/view/head:/debian/patches/fix-883383.patch|compiz]]</nowiki>) *

It is built from the following branches:

* https://code.launchpad.net/~jamespharaoh/ubuntu/oneiric/compiz/focus-follows-mouse

And contains the following source package versions:

* compiz_0.9.6+bzr20110929-0ubuntu5ppa2~oneiric1 *

NB: I update this page when I upload the source packages. They will appear in the PPA some time after that, assuming there are no errors. The items marked with an asterisk are those which I have uploaded but might not yet be available.
