{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Dhruv Samuel is my seven month old son. FO stands for "Father Of". I have always been interested in Open Source development and always spoke about it bravely to friends and relatives and got some them interested in using it. But due to vocational time constraints and also the arrival of Dhruv has kept a little away from the Open Source world.

I have now installed ubuntu on my old HP box and im pretty happy with it. The easy with which the Ubuntu installs is what fascinated me. But the real thrill of installation comes with the difficulties you face installing.

There one thing that has bothered me quite a bit is getting the Linux to sing for me. The crooning part has bothered me since my early associations with Linux and it still is with the new installation of Ubuntu.

Difficulties apart. My dream, is to have a group of people who would help to reach out to NGO's with the advantages(cost-wise and support-wise) of having their networks/desktops on linux. This could be done as a past time initially and more ful fledge if it catches up at all. The RoadMap to such a venture would be up soon, and i hope Ubuntu would join hands with me to further my dream.
