{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Folding Jam ==

Folding Jam is 24 hours of FoldingAtHome fun! We will need as many contributors as possible to make this event successful. Our goal is to try to discover bugs and issues so we can take action towards improving the Folding@Home experience. The Jam is open to anyone whether you are currently an active folder or not, and no experience is necessary. Our main line of communication for the event will be IRC. We find the instant group chat allowed by IRC is a great tool for these kind of events. If you haven't yet, please come by the team's channel at #ubuntu-folding on Freenode. If you are unfamiliar with IRC here's <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto|a nice guide]]</nowiki> to get you started. 

== Goals ==

During Jam week, we will try to cover each install method listed on the main FoldingAtHome page, and try to cover them on as many different Linux distributions as possible. We hope that we will be joined by the maintainers of each installation method, so we can have in-depth knowledge about all the various options for folders. Other wiki pages specific to each install method is below:

* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FoldingJam/origami|Origami]]</nowiki>
* finstall (coming soon)
* fah_install (coming soon)
* Manual Install (coming soon)

== Schedule ==

Folding Jam is currently scheduled for '''<nowiki>[[http://timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?month=11&day=10&year=2009&hour=0&min=0&sec=0&p1=0|Tuesday, the 10th of November]]</nowiki>'''. If we need to add more time, we will continue the Jam on either Wednesday or Thursday. Please note that this schedule still may change if the need arises, so please check back on this wiki often - if any scheduling issues arise, we will post updated info here. If you are interested in participating in Folding Jam, please add your name to the chart below, and mark which days you'll be able to help out the Jam.

== Participants ==

=== Availability ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
|-
| '''swoody'''
|-
| '''pedro3005'''
|-
| '''tenach'''
|-
| '''golem_'''
|-
| '''PD187'''
|-
| '''jenkinbr'''
|-
| '''Daney'''
|-
| '''Zelut'''
|-
| '''djchandler'''
|-
| '''severity1'''
|}

=== Hardware ===

Please list your specific CPU info, as well as what Linux distributions that you'll be able to use during the Folding Jam. This will give us a good indication of what kind of hardware we can expect to test, so we can adjust any tests properly.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| '''CPU Specs.'''
| '''Operating System(s)'''
|-
| '''swoody'''
| '''Intel Celeron M - Single-Core'''
| '''Ubuntu, openSUSE, Fedora, Linux Mint, Debian, gNewSense (all 32 bit)'''
|-
| '''pedro3005'''
| '''Intel Dual Core 2.2GHZ'''
| '''Ubuntu Jaunty (32 bit)'''
|-
| '''tenach'''
| '''Intel Celeron D - Single-Core'''
| '''Linux Mint, Zenix, Ubuntu, all 64bit
|-
| '''golem_'''
| '''AMD Athlon 64 3500+ (2.2 GHz single core)'''
| '''Ubuntu 9.10 64bit'''
|-
| '''PD187'''
| '''AMD Athlon 64 3500+ (2.2 GHz single core)'''
| '''Ubuntu 9.04 32bit (could be 9.10 by the time), willing to do any other OS 32bit or 64bit.'''
|-
| '''severity1'''
| '''Intel Atom N270 2 Cores (1.60GHz)'''
| '''Ubuntu Netbook Remix 9.10'''
|-
| '''djchandler (1)'''
| '''AMD Phenom II X4 20 (unlocked Phenom II X3 720 BE), 2.8GHz'''
| '''Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic clean install) AMD64, AMD-V™ supported, will run Linux, BSD of choice, -smp okay'''
|-
| '''djchandler (2)'''
| '''AMD Athlon II 7750 BE, 2.7 GHZ dual core'''
| '''Windows 7 x64 RTM, Virtual machines--XP, Windows Server 2003 x86, AMD-V™ supported, will run Linux, BSD of choice, no -smp on wife's machine'''
|-
| '''djchandler (3)'''
| '''AMD Athlon64 3400+ 2.4Ghz Venice (single) core'''
| '''Mythbuntu 9.04, 32-bit'''
|}
