{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/font-design-toolkit
* '''Created''': by NicolasSpalinger
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': fontforge, open-font-design-toolkit

=== Summary ===

Making Ubuntu the ideal environment to design libre/open fonts

=== Rationale ===

The vast majority of font designers use OS X and some use Windows-specific tools. With common standards (opentype) more are thinking cross-platform and most are using some libre/open plugins along with the current proprietary stack of font design tools (FontLab and friends). Improving the available tools, integrating them and providing a rich and intuitive design environment similar to what the font design community is already accustomed to will help.

=== Use cases ===

Simon wants to add glyphs to an existing open font and would like to have all the stack needed to do proper font design easily installed. He would like a friendly and non-restricted environment where he can reuse his experience from designing fonts on other OSes. He would like as much interoperability and standard-based apps as possible so that his fonts can be developed and used cross-platform.

=== Scope ===

We will list available 

* tools 
* research papers
* tutorials
* font sources to contribute to
* font sources to branch from 

And gather useful information about the font design community

* FLOSS-friendly designers
* FLOSS-friendly websites and forums
* font design community real-life meetups (conference and workshops)

=== Design ===

Creating a meta-package to get the font design toolkit easily installed: 

see '''apt-get install open-font-design-toolkit''' (this set of design tools will be adjusted as needed)

Creating online and offline resources for open font designers.

=== Implementation ===

Integrating the following tools:

* fontforge, fontforge-doc, inkscape, gimp
* freetype-tools, libfont-ttf-perl, fonttools, gwaterfall, freetype-demos, oto, sfddiff, fontQA, ttx, robofab, superpolator
* gfontsampler, gucharmap, guci, scribus-font-preview
* a selection of useful mozilla extensions

Doing an UI review for fontforge, suggesting usability enhancements. Helping with the GTK+ port, looking at a common format with FontLab either though import/export filters or a common XML-based format like UFO. Integrating the various small scripts lying around. 

See FontforgeImprovements.

See the various tools as listed on the Open Font Library wiki: http://openfontlibrary.org/wiki/Tools

And the various utilities on http://utilities.open-fonts.org/

Integration with revision control and best practises around source tree layout is also desirable. 

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

discussion of related specs: OpenFonts FontManagement

----
CategorySpec
