{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Fontforge ==

Here's a very rough list of wishlist/feature requests for the <nowiki>[[http://fontforge.sf.net|fontforge]]</nowiki> font design suite by George Williams. 

It is a very advanced program but from the perspective of designers things could be improved.

The changelog is moving fast and well worth watching:
http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/changelog.html

This initial list comes from listening to feedback from designers giving Fontforge a quick test drive. This doesn't take into account the possible complexity of actually implementing these features. It's basically a summary of "wouldn't it be nice if fontforge had this feature?" conversations.

Feel free to add your own thoughts and refine this list:

* change grey background to white (DONE)
* improve OS X packaging (Aqua port?)
* reduce the node points
* consider implementing a python interpreter to be able to reuse Fontlab scripts (DONE)
* provide an UFO import/export filter (DONE)
* include better graphic tablet support
* allow shortcuts to be redefined
* provide an options to synchronize menus with Fontlab where possible (gimpshop-like)
* drop the not-quite respectful error messages
* be able to see point coordinates in the canvas
* GTK+ port: UNDERWAY - mostly the viewer
* better hinting tools
* better tools to tweak smart features (like Graphite description language)
* Microsoft Visual OpenType Tool (VOLT) like UI
* VOLT like accessibility and improvement for non-latin complex scripts like range Indic Scripts and others.
