{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

I've been a member of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org|Ubuntu Forums]]</nowiki> since the end of May 2007, joining there to get a few answers and have spent many hours there since helping others. I had a near miss causing all my previous contributions to the forum to be mislaid - good job Matthew was there to pick up the pieces :)

Luckily I was able to retain my hard won username.

A Few Links:

Ubuntu Forums - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=610428|Elfy]]</nowiki>
Launchpad - <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~forestpiskie|forestpiskie]]</nowiki>
IRC - hobgoblin, elfy, hobgoblin on irc.freenode.net

=== Participation ===

==== Ubuntu Forums ====

I contribute to the Ubuntu Forums whenever I can, mostly in the Absolute Beginners and General forums, although I have been known to stop by the Installation forums; as I like to get on to new versions quite quickly I also use the development forums.

I was recently asked to join the staff as a moderator on the forums - I was honoured to accept.

Participating heavily in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ForumWikiTeam|Forum Wiki Team]]</nowiki> aiming at moving threads from the forum to the community wikipages. 

=== Testimonials ===

(Previous membership testimonials)

Testimonials:

May 2011 - please visit the thread on the forum.
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1752845

CategoryHomepage
