{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Forum Wiki Team ==

== Introduction ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

The Forum Wiki Team has been set up to help with the migration of tutorials existing on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100 | Ubuntuforums]]</nowiki> to the community wiki.

We aim to help with both migration of threads and also to help those wishing to take part in the effort. The team will act as a central point for queries.

== Contacting us ==

In the first instance the best place to contact us on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat | IRC]]</nowiki>, there is a dedicated channel on irc.freenode.net at #ubuntu-wiki. 

Many of us can also be found in the #ubuntuforums channel as well.

If you wish to install a client for use, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto | XChat]]</nowiki> is a simple to use IRC client. 

Alternatively you might wish to use a browser to connect directly, this link will open a webchat instance to the correct channel - http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-wiki

== Forum to Wiki Tool ==

A script has been coded which takes a thread from the forum and converts it to moinmoin markdown for use on the wiki, substantially simplifying the initial process. 

This <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ForumWikiTeam/ImportTool | Import Tool]]</nowiki>can be found at <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubforums2ubwiki| Ubuntu Forums 2 Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki> Launchpad page.

== Threads for migration ==

Threads marked for migration can be found at the community wiki - <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DocumentationTeam/Wiki/Tasks/Forum/import |Forum Import]]</nowiki> page
