{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Forum Council July 2009 ===

 {*} To help integrate the Ubuntu Forums and Launchpad you may now log into the Ubuntu Forums with your Launchpad OpenID.

 {*} Forums otherwise remain active (and fun).

=== July Meeting ===

 {*} We unfortunately did not have a quorum ans so no action could be taken. 

 {*} We did, however, listen to some of the issues brought up by the community.
** We will discuss revising the Report Button on the forums. Thank you to everyone for the suggestions. See <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1208698|Report post icon should be changed]]</nowiki> for details.
** Thank you to DougieRichardson (and others) to help improve discouraged posts / threads that end up in T&E. T&E is probably the best location for this activity as it prevents trolling.
** The specifics of the plan are <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Forum/Spec/TestimonialTeam|here]]</nowiki>. We do not think a specific team needs to be started for this activity on the forums, although perhaps contact the BeginnersTeam to see if a Focus group can be formed.
** The staff will discuss the potential use of Launchpad to track staff members.
** The FC will make efforts to keep Team Reporting up to date.
** BodhiZazen will ask Hellow and Panickedthumb to head up the UA team with additional actions to be discussed next month.

 {*} Logs of the meeting can be found here: <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2009/07/30/%23ubuntu-meeting.txt|Meeting logs (Starting at 23:18)]]</nowiki>

Thank You ~
