{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': none yet
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Is it feasible to give Launchpad Karma for people making contributions on the Ubuntu forums?

Some issues that we need to sort out are:
* What karma category to use? Support?
* Authentication issues: will we need to authenticate forum users using the authserver to be able to do this? 

One thing we might consider is that we don't give any karma for people doing spec work on Ubuntu's wiki; instead we track that karma when these specs are registered in Launchpad. In the case of the forums it's slightly different, but maybe it'd be bether to work out a way of building a knowledge base out of the forums into Launchpad, and then assign karma for people building this knowledge base.

=== Rationale ===

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
