{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

An update from the Forums Council for May of 2012

* Archiving Forums. Threads that have no activity for >12 months, will be archived every 6 months (in sync with the release cycle)

* New Theme. TechnoViking has been hard at work creating a new theme for the Forum. It now matches the branding on most of the other Ubuntu web sites

* Wiki Teams. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/forestpiskie|elfy]]</nowiki> , has been working with the wiki team to convert tutorials from the Tips and Tutorials sub-forum to wki pages.

* General Messages. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Silver_Fox|s.fox]]</nowiki> thanked all those that added their support to her application to the Ubuntu Membership Board.

* New Staff. We put off appointing any further staff until we discussed it amongst the staff a little more. We are trying to meet the Community Council guidelines, when it comes to appointing/electing new staff members.

* Application Development Forum. mhall119, answered all of the remaining question the Forum Council had, before the new sub-forum is opened.

* New Members. We elected 3 new Forums ubuntu members, please welcome <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/primefalcon|primefalcon]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hakermania|hakermania]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/sandyd|sandyd]]</nowiki>.
