{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== An update from the Forums Council for April 2014 ==

The Forum Council gave an update on where we stand with regard to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil/TeamNomination|new process for nominating forum members for moderator positions]]</nowiki>.

With only 2 self nominations and 4 nominations put forward by the council, the overall feeling was for polling to be abandoned this time around with the 6 current nominees appointed to the moderation team. Learning points to be appraised and the process revisited for next time around. 

Full logs can be found here. http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-meeting/2014/ubuntu-meeting.2014-04-06-20.01.log.html 

Congratulations to <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=320715|mc4man]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=900617|caboose885]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1276577|deadflowr]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1627500|steeldriver]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1753126|slickymaster]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1499021|sudodus]]</nowiki> on their appointments. :)  

== Mobile Forum Theme ==
s-fox will contact Canonical IS with regard to improving the mobile theme of the forum.

== Next Forum Council Meeting ==
FC to discuss meeting times for next 6 months (continue with first Sunday of the month).

Should you wish to add items to the agenda here is the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda|link]]</nowiki>. 
