{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== January 9 2007 - Meeting Discussions ===
We had a great first meeting. Things accomplished

 1. Vorain was elected to be the FC Secretary, which will hold a 1yr term.

 2. We selected candidates that will be elected for team lead positions at he next FC meeting.

=== Team Leader Selection List ===

==== Beginners Team ====

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1763295&postcount=26/|bodhi.zazen]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1695147&postcount=3/|Lord Illidan]]</nowiki>

==== Hardware Team ====

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1703265&postcount=21/|apjone]]</nowiki>

==== Unanswered Post Team ====

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1700569&postcount=19/|jacobmp92]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1703030&postcount=20/|mssever]]</nowiki>

Forum Council meetings will be held the second Tuesday of every month at 16:00 UTC on #ubuntu-meeting on irc.freenode.net (this is subject to change)

=== General Agenda Items and Proposals ===
If you put an item on the agenda, you will have to show up. Otherwise the item may be deleted from the agenda. Please add your name to items you add.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#d9bb7a">Who
| What
|-
| Ryan Troy
| '''Welcome to the first meeting.'''<<BR>>Introduction to the FC and purpose.
|-
| Ryan Troy
| '''We need to elect a secretary to record and update the wiki/forum after each meeting.'''<<BR>>If you would like to be considered for this position please read this discussion. http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=323554
|-
| Ryan Troy
| '''Forum Team Leader Discussions.'''<<BR>>Discuss how to build/implement the forum teams etc.
|-
| Henrik Omma
| '''Dev team contact introductions.'''<<BR>> Just introducing <nowiki>[[HenrikOmma|myself]]</nowiki> as the devel team contact point for the forums. I'll be working with the <nowiki>[[ForumAmbassadors|Forum Ambassadors]]</nowiki> and I generally lurk <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=145|here]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=179|here]]</nowiki>. Our first project is <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=201|ISO image testing]]</nowiki>. (''note: I am a contact for the dev-team, a small part of the wider community. The forums should probably also establish similar links with the doc team, art team, translators, etc. and of course the CC and TB'')
|}

Discussions on this meetings topics can be found at the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=199|Ubuntuforums FC section]]</nowiki>.
