{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Describe ForumAmbassadorsDiscussion/Notes here.

=== TODO ===
* contact exisiting developers in subforums. make sure they are connected to the rest of the developers. Possible candidates for FA team ? 
* We need an improved step-wise ideas/spec process sticky.
* Henrik's idea : spec tutorial. maybe something for Ubuntu Open Week. Jono likes it.  

=== brainstorming about possible new subsections ===
* We have to find topics & areas where developers will value input.
 
* update-testing on forums -> talk with Micheal Vogt about it. Probably best to do this inside dev-link. Micheal likes it.
 
* bug triage subforum -> possibly speak to Daniel Holbach about idea 
** ubuntu_demon : IMHO first try dev-link and "how to become involved.." subsections
 
 
* dev link / developer link specific announcement subforum where developers can ask for specific testing/feedback. 
** Possible do a lightning talk to see whether developers are interested in this. Devs don't have to browse through the forums they just start a single thread requesting feedback on a particular package.
** only developers can start threads
   - moderated
** stickies in development forum VS nice clean specific development subforum
 
 
 
 
* "How to become involved in the rest of the community" specific subsection. With howto stickies like :
* Concise and simple HowTos Needed (checklist / step plan) :
***** How to create a Launchpad account.
***** Guided tour of Ubuntu Community Resorces. (Wiki, IRC, etc...)
***** How to search Launchpad.
***** How to file a good bug report. https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs
***** How to write+file a spec+what happens after. (just posting in the forum isn't acceptable. discussion thread is fine but needs a spec. link to discussion thread in spec.)
***** How to create a wiki account.
***** How to become an Ubuntero.
***** How to join bugsquad
***** How to work with the bugsquad
***** Brian Murray volunteers to help write a few howto's
****** https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray 
* Howto mentoring subsection  -> post in forum and contact mentor. see launchpad beta / mentoring pages launchpad
** ubuntu_demon : IMHO first try dev-link and "how to become involved.." subsections 
 
=== new and / or related specs ===
 
* bountypledges spec : https://blueprints.launchpad.net/launchpad/+spec/bountypledges
* new pledgebank spec : https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/dev-pledgebank
* we should revive launchpad integration spec : https://blueprints.launchpad.net/launchpad/+spec/launchpad-forum-integration
