{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

One and only recommendation : ''Ubuntu One and ubuntuforums accounts are linked based on email string addresses'', so make sure you have set the correct email in the Ubuntu One account BEFORE login into the forums.

Special case for gmail/googlemail accounts :

* Google treats accountname@googlemail and accountname@gmail as the same
* Google allows you to add periods in the account name, thus accountname@gmail, account.name@gmail, acc.ount.name@gmail, and so on, all go to the same gmail inbox
The Ubuntu One SSO process sees them as different strings, please make sure you register with the exact same string email that you have been with Google.

=== If you have no Ubuntu One account and no ubuntuforums account ===
You need to create a Ubuntu One account before you create a forums account
 1. <nowiki>[[Go to https:--login.ubuntu.com-]]</nowiki>
 2. Click “I am a new Ubuntu One user”
 3. Enter your email address
 4. Choose a name and a password
 5. This name will be displayed on the forums as your username, so make sure you are comfortable with it. Your forums username will be your Ubuntu One account name with a number appended if the username is already in use in the forums database
 6. Answer the captcha and accept Ubuntu One ToS
 7. Click “Create Account”
 8. Log into the ubuntuforums by clicking “Login with SSO”
 9. Verify this email from the link you will receive in you mailbox to be able to post on the forums

=== If you already have a ubuntuforums account but no Ubuntu One account ===

You need to create a Ubuntu One account before you login your forums account
 1. Go to <nowiki>[[https://login.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>
 2. Click I am a new Ubuntu One user
 3. Enter the same email address you used in your forums account
 4. Choose a name (it does not have to match your forums account nickname) and a password
 5. Answer the captcha and accept Ubuntu One ToS
 6. Click “Create Account”
 7. Log into the ubuntuforums by clicking “Login with SSO”
 8. Check your email address on the personal details page and proceed
Note : if the emails on the forums and Ubuntu One do not match, you will end up with a newly created forums account with a username derived from the Ubuntu One name.

=== If you already have a Ubuntu One account but no forums account ===
 1. Login to Ubuntu One
 2. Your forums username will be derived from the Ubuntu One name, so make sure you are comfortable with it displayed. Your forums username will be your Ubuntu One account name with a number appended if the username is already in use in the forums database
 3. Log into the forums by clicking “Login with SSO”
 4. Check your email address on the personal details page and proceed
 5. Verify this email from the link you will receive in your mailbox to be able to post on the forums

=== If you already have a forums account and an Ubuntu One account ===
 1. Go to <nowiki>[[https://login.ubuntu.com/]]</nowiki>
 2. Log into Ubuntu One
 3. Make sure your preferred email address is the same as your forums email address
 4. If not, change your Ubuntu One email address to match the ubuntuforums account before the first login to the forums, otherwise you’ll end up with a newly created forums account

==== Additional information ====
If you un-tick your name in your Ubuntu One Personal Data Request page, the system uses the local part of the email to create a forum username.
The Ubuntu One preferred email address can be changed after the initial login to the forum without affecting the link between the two accounts.

Only a ubuntuforums admin will be able to sort you out of a Ubuntu One and forums email mismatch. To get help, please create a thread in the ubuntuforums <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123|Resolution Centre]]</nowiki> after you have read the stickies at the top of the forums section.

Reference : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2230004|Forums post]]</nowiki>
