{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== What We Do ===

The forums represent many people's first meeting with Ubuntu and is an important resource for support and social interactions and have become one of the most important subprojects within Ubuntu.  They are the single largest GNU/Linux support forums and one of the most important venues for community support and interaction.  Started  independently by Ryan Troy in 2004, their rapid success was officially recognized when they were designated as the Official Ubuntu Forums.

The ForumCouncil has a number of rights and responsibilities, and is ultimately responsible for the smooth operation of the forums. These include:

{*} Encourage all forum members to follow the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy|Forum Code of Conduct]]</nowiki>, and abide by the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.
 
{*} Appointing or recalling administrators, super moderators, moderators and forums staff or determining criteria by which they are appointed.

{*} Resolving disputes between forums staff and moderators as per the existing dispute resolution system and forums guidelines.

{*} With advice, feedback, and help from the forums staff, maintaining and enforcing the Forums Guidelines and associated infrastructure (e.g., the resolution center).

{*} Review and approve applications for <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Membership|Ubuntu Membership]]</nowiki> via <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Forums/Membership|Contributions to the Ubuntu forums]]</nowiki>.

{*} Nominations to the Forum Council are dealt with slightly different than other councils, the details can be found on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil/TeamNomination | Team Nomination]]</nowiki> page
 
=== Who We are ===

{*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=129087|coffeecat ]]</nowiki> - '''Council Member'''

{*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=186490|howefield]]</nowiki> - '''Council Member'''

{*} <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=628170|QIII]]</nowiki> - '''Council Member'''

{*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1753126|slickymaster]]</nowiki> - '''Council Member'''

=== Contact ===
The few ways to contact the Forums Council:
* Post to the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123|Resolution Center]]</nowiki> if you have a problem on the forums.
* E-Mail: ubuntu-forums-council -at- lists.ubuntu.com. '''''(Please do not use a gmail email address to write to the Forum Council. Forum administrators reply using an @ubuntu.com email address and currently gmail is swallowing these without trace, and without even a bounce notification. This is being worked on, but there is no impending resolution.)'''''

=== Meetings ===
 
* Meetings are held monthly on channel #ubuntu-meeting on freenode.  Forums Council meetings are open to any and all who want to attend.  

* If you would like to bring a topic before the council, please add it to the agenda. (if you add an item, please show up :) )'''<nowiki>[[ForumCouncilAgenda|Forum Council Agenda]]</nowiki>'''.

* If you have an urgent matter that needs the attention of forum admins, you may post in the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=123|Resolution Center]]</nowiki> or email the Forums Council at: ubuntu-forums-council -at- lists.ubuntu.com
----
CategoryUbuntuTeams
