{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== An update from the Forums Council for April 2015 ===

==== Super Moderator group ====

* The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil/SuperModerator|Super Moderator]]</nowiki> group is working as expected. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1753126|slickymaster]]</nowiki> has been promoted Forum Admin after three months in the group, filling a vacant position in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil|Forum Council]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=628170|QIII]]</nowiki> has accepted to join the Super Moderator group to replace slickymaster.

==== s.fox has stepped down from the Forum Council ====

We would like to thank <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=611656|s-fox]]</nowiki> for several years on the Forum Council and for all the cake (please see below). All our best wishes for future endeavors !

==== Mobile Forum Theme ====

<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=611656|s-fox]]</nowiki> has worked on the forums mobile theme to make it look like the regular desktop browser theme. Additional work needs to be done to create new icons, but that will be labor intensive.

==== Ubuntu membership via forums contributions ====

The community was solicited by a thread in the restricted (Ubuntu members only) area on the forums, in the open <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2271571|Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat]]</nowiki> forum and a <nowiki>[[https://ubuntuforumsorg.wordpress.com/2015/03/29/ubuntu-membership/|blog post]]</nowiki>.

==== Phone and Tablet Support ====

Support area for <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=460 |Phone and Tablet]]</nowiki> added to Specialised Support area. 

=== Next Forum Council Meeting ===

As no point were raised by forums members in a very long while, it was decided to reduce the FC meeting timing from one every months to one every four  months. There is an admin restricted forum where all the FC discussions take place. Reports will be filled to keep the community informed about decisions. Having a monthly meeting to only point out in the #ubuntu-meeting IRC channel what we have already been discussing among us with no one else commenting for over a year seems a bit pointless.

Should you wish to add items to the agenda here is the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda|link]]</nowiki>. 
