{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== An update from the Forums Council for April 2016 ===

==== New Ubuntu Members via forums contributions ====

These last few days the Forums Council has approved the following forums members for Ubuntu Membership. We are very happy to welcome :

* wgarcia : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=242060|Forum profile]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WalterGarciaFontes|Wiki Page]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~walter-garcia|LP Page]]</nowiki>

* Duck``Hook : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1256508|Forum profile]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DuckHook|Wiki Page]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~duckhook|LP Page]]</nowiki>

* mastablasta : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=964486|Forum profile]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/gregor-g|Wiki Page]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~gregor-g|LP Page]]</nowiki>

* runrickus : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=27449|Forum profile]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/runrickus|Wiki Page]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~8-rick|LP Page]]</nowiki>

* Pending jeremy31 : <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1924242|Forum profile]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/jeremy31|Wiki Page]]</nowiki> ; <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~wa113y3s|LP Page]]</nowiki>

Congratulations to all the new Ubuntu Members !

==== New Forums Moderators ====

A healthy team is able to renew itself and integrate new members. The following Ubuntu Forums users have accepted to be part of the Staff team, now consisting of 21 Moderators, 3 Super-Moderators and 5 Admins. In addition, 4 forums users have Moderator status in a specific sub-forum (UWN, Catalan and Argentina Lo``Co teams forums we host). You can find a complete list of the forums leaders <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showgroups.php|here]]</nowiki>.

The new Forums Moderators are :

* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1256508|DuckHook]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1924242|jeremy31]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1839|kc1di]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1044547|MAFoElffen]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=895543|nerdtron]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=565288|oldrocker99]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=449866|vasa1]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=242060|wgarcia]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=27449|runrickus]]</nowiki>

Welcome to all of them !

==== Next Staff Meeting ====

We have re-scheduled our next Staff meeting to allow the new Moderators to adjust to all the shiny new buttons, procedures and habits. Next meeting will be held on May 22nd in the restricted IRC Staff channel. Meetings times rotate so that all Moderators are able to attend several times a year as we are scattered all over the time zones. To note, there is a restricted Staff area on the Ubuntu Forums where discussions about moderation take place 24/7. Communication is vital to our team so that everyone is on the same page when we take actions.

Should you wish to add items to the Forums Council agenda here is the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncilAgenda|link]]</nowiki>. 
