{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

==== UbuntuForums Administrator Requirements ====

Being an admin is a much larger commitment than being a moderator. This guide provides an '''overview''' of what is expected, but is not an exhaustive list.

===== Time Commitment =====

No figure is suggested but an admin ought to be putting in more hours than a moderator. Apart from any longer logged in sessions, an admin needs to login for at least a few minutes most days in order to keep up with and contribute to what is going on in the moderation team forum areas, review recent reports and deal with outstanding issues in the SCC stickies. Admins are encouraged to visit selected forums in the general forum every time they login in order to be current with what is happening there.

===== Leadership =====

Above all, a forum admin is a leader, setting the tone of the forums, developing strategy and policy, being aware of what is going on in the wider Ubuntu community, and mentoring and supervising moderator team.

===== Communication =====

* Communication is all-important. Admins should offer their opinion in all correspondence threads in the Forum Council Mailing List which have been started by another admin, and contribute to others where appropriate. Similarly, admin input is needed in all discussion threads in private moderation team forum areas where these are to do with managing the forum. 

* Communication beyond the forum and within the wider Ubuntu community is just as important and all admins should be prepared to do their share of liaising with sysadmins, the Community Council and other areas of the Ubuntu community where appropriate via email, irc or any other effective means of communication.

* The Forum Council makes use of IRC channels, mailing list and private forum area for discussion, it is important that all avenues of discussion are followed.

* It is imperative that forum administrators make their views known, even if only a simple +1. 

===== Routine Tasks =====

Routine tasks are important but fourth on this list for a good reason. Although they can only be performed by admins, there is far more to being an effective admin than simply dealing with these tasks. They include:

* Monthly Report
* Contact Us Form via mailing list response.
* Forum council mailing list supervision
* Responding to Resolution Centre Threads.
* Adding Ubuntu Members

===== Moderator Duties =====

Admins still need to do their share of moderator duties

'''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ForumCouncil/Moderator|UbuntuForums Moderator Requirements]]</nowiki>'''

===== Technical Support =====

* It is good for the forum community if admins are actively and visibly involved in technical support.

===== Have Fun! =====

It's not a job, you won't get paid ... 

So if you are not enjoying your administrator duties, then something is wrong. Talk to the other council members. Join in the banter in SCC or #ubuntuforums-mods or take a break.
