{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

Hi Ubuntu Community, I am amongst the first lovers and users of Ubuntu-Linux in Pakistan. I am promoting the Ubuntu-Pakistan LoCo Team that now has over 715+ members since last April 2005. 

== My interest in Ubuntu ==

My dream is to make available all the regional languages of Pakistan available in Ubuntu-Linux so that we can spread the Ubuntu spirit throughout our developing nation promoting ICT and connecting every village and city in the country. Not only that, Ubuntu-Linux helps us as an alternative Operating System that can remove Software Piracy from our region promoting respect for all!

Todate, I have voluntarily been part of team based initiatives that have trained and certified over 5000 Ubuntu-Linux users in Pakistan. We continue to promote Ubuntu now through Ubuntu-Linux User Groups that are being created in various Universities. Our next target is to release a localized version of Ubuntu-Linux in Urdu, Sindhi, Pujabi, Pushto and Balochi including over another 70 regional languages in the future.

== More ==
I have been working and promoting ICT Software Freedom for Everyone fueling the Free and Open Source Softawre Movement in Asia. My career IT related career spans over 10 years. I also teach Free and Open Source and write Software Advocacy related articles in local and international publications. 

== Contact ==

* I am <code>fouadbajwa</code> at irc.freenode.net
* Email me if you like: bajwa {at} ubuntu {dot} org 
* My <nowiki>[[http://www.gnupg.org|GPG]]</nowiki> key is: 9DC61D29.
===bajwa {at} ubuntu {dot} org is not working please see if it can be activated (by Muhammad Shuja)

Its great to be part of the growing team!

== Ubuntu-pk ==
URL: http://www.ubuntu-pk.org
----
CategoryHomepage
