{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Installer bug-fixing:
** Fixed partman-base/partman-auto/ubiquity #347916 (warns user about the fact that the installation medium is mounted). Had to break the string freeze, so mailed ubuntu-translators@. Later adjusted to cope with Dell's factory install requirements, #354573.
** Fixed ubiquity/oem-config #336745 (no spacing between "Select your time zone" and the map). Also made the timezone map bigger on bigger screens.
** Fixed ubiquity #353941 (ubiquity dies when flash-kernel-installer tries to call "in-target flash-kernel").
** Fixed ubiquity #353273/#354534 (Ubiquity crashes when trying to preseed grub2 instead of grub).
** Fixed livecd-rootfs part of #327821 (residual config in myspell-en-us after fresh install).
** Fixed ubiquity #301430 (ipv6 /etc/hosts missing localhost hostname).
** Fixed ubiquity/base-installer #290947 (update-initramfs fails to generate initrd because of unexpected syntax error).
** Fixed initramfs-tools #347685 (breaks with labels containing slashes; trivial backport from Debian).
** Fixed ubiquity #287626 ("Who are you?" step uses italics instead of small print).
** Fixed partman-ext3 #354851 (no ext4 option in manual partitioning; regression, my fault).
** Fixed a few miscellaneous casper bugs, including #346941.
** Fixed ubiquity #354515 (kubuntu install partman crashes with error code 141).
** Worked on ubiquity/libgksu #357101 (GUI does not exit on reboot after install on armel).

* Investigated report of installer mistranslations. Seems to be disturbingly widespread; set up http://people.ubuntu.com/~cjwatson/d-i-translations/ and mailed ubuntu-translators@ about it.

* Sponsorship:
** os-prober #353639/#354334 (uploaded).
** shadow #349504.
** grub #347790 (uploaded after discussion).
** nagios3 #355800 (back to contributor).
** moin #350287 (uploaded).

* gfxboot-theme-ubuntu translation update, including fixing #354364 (strings for Studio, MID, and UNR are untranslatable). Also some installer translation updates.

* Rewrote a Ruby script in ttf-cjk-compact in Python at Steve Langasek's request, to reduce the build-dependency set and avoid a bunch of main inclusion reports.

* Tested and uploaded kvpm #335972 (add ext4 support).

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week.  On vacation until Monday, April 6th.
* Catching up on email and changes to the installer after being on holiday for a week.
* Discussion with Agostino Russo on integrating colinux into Wubi.
* Followed up on ubuntu-doc thread (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2009-April/012588.html)on creating usb-creator documentation.
* Finally got the partition bars in ubiquity drawing a more convincing slider.
* Various bits for Agostino. Followed up on the certificate issue, some one liners he requested, made a debugging build for LP: #346521.
* Worked on getting ubiquity to not show the migration-assistant page when there are no items to import.  This is going to require reworking the logic of the m-a d-i component in Karmic as it should only ask to import from a partition if it's going to import users from that partition, and only import a user if it can import items for that user.  Still, I have a fix that should suffice for Jaunty, I'm just testing it to make sure there are no regressions.
* Looked into the ubiquity KDE frontend no longer showing the partition bars for options other than "use entire disk".  I haven't managed a proper fix yet.
* Added back the missing UTC+5.5 timezone image to the time zone page.
* Started looking into why the format warning on the partitioning page is not properly showing the warning for Colin.

==== James Westby ====

==== Lars Wirzenius ====
* Covers Mar 19 - Apr 7 

===== Done these weeks =====

* Reviewed a bunch of update-manager bugs, starting with the old ones. Several got closed. This is slow work, but it seems to be good to do it. Just after the jaunty release would be a good time to go through all the remaining update-manager bugs. Virtualisation is invaluable for testing many of these old bugs.

* Filed #345906 to get the "invalid" bug state in Launchpad renamed. Matthew Paul Thomas had the excellent suggestion of "declined".
   
* Decided to postpone implementation of the "copyrightformat library", since Debian is starting active discussion about the format and it isn't starting well.
   
* Installed new hard disks on my VM-running desktop machine. Broke fan power plug. Fixed that. Linux kernel doesn't recognize the disks. Debugged that, found place in kernel where it is a problem. Reported upstream and Launchpad (existing bugs in both cases).  Put old disk back into use, only to find out it's giving I/O errors occasionally. I hate hardware, but that's OK, hardware hates me, too.
   
* Fixed a bunch of problems in computer-janitor, and prepared an upload that Michael Vogt kindly sponsored. One of the bugs caused packages getting removed that weren't being shown in the list.
   
* Upgraded laptop to jaunty. The upgrade itself went smoothly, but metacity and gnome-display-properties are annoying me now.

* Reviewed #277924, found location in sysklogd where the problem is, and discussed with the kernel team, with the result that their consensus is that it's a cosmetic problem. Not worth fixing at this stage in the release.

===== Remaining from past weeks =====

* Fix bugs: 288731. (Decided that this isn't worth fixing right now. Leaving it for karmic.)

===== Plans for the coming week =====

* React to bugs.

==== Luke Yelavich ====
===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging
* Checked upstream alsa code and Jaunty's kernel for code needed for a particular hardware variant of an EeePC, without success, seems like code needs to be written.
* Uploaded some more pulseaudio fixes, thanks to Daniel Chen.
* Screwed up PulseAudio's version number by accidentally uploading a 0.9.15 PPA package to Ubuntu, panicking, and deciding to use an epoch rather than fiddling with the version number in other preferable ways. Damn I feel like a doof.
* Uploaded PulseAudio 0.9.15~test7 to my PPA for further user testing.
* Submitted a few patches to alsa upstream to refactor and add some functionality to alsa-info.sh. I'll likely take time to clean that script up to make it use POSIX shell, and have a consistant coding style.

==== Accessibility =====
* Further spec work for UDS karmic.
* Filed a bug against libgksu relating to not passing some environment variables through to the sudo environment when the GTK dialog is shown to request the password entry. Need to investigate further.
* Ran through a live CD install using accessibility in only-ubiquity mode, and found everything worked as expected, except for some buttons with no shortcut keys, something which I'll try to address in karmic.

===== dmraid =====
* Dmraid bug triaging.

===== Misc =====
* Tested out Network Manager's mobile broadband functionality to find that it works very well with my phone, and my mobile provider. I needed to only plug my phone in, and the NM mobile wizard did the rest. There are some a11y related issues with the wizard however, which need investigation, same with the bluetooth device setup wizard.

==== Matthias Klose ====
* Python2.6/3.0 updates
* Fixing issues in python packaging tools and python-virtualenv. try to use dist-packages only in installations with prefix /usr or /usr/local, else use the old name site-packages. this is not perfect for all things, so sometimes a dist-packages directory will pop up outside /usr and /usr/local.
* finally fix newlib build failure on powerpc
* fix other build failures
* More progress on OpenJDK testing
* Vacation: Apr 06 - Apr 07

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== compiz =====
* Trying to reproduce compiz focus bug (with maniac) 
* Work on compiz z-order fix with focus_on_map=FALSE (#333284)
* fix another focus-on-map issue (#353195)

===== python =====
* debug failure for some python package to provide 2.6 symlinks (#353251) - turns out rtinstall scripts are not run
* Debug python-central upgrade failure (#354228) and disable upgrades for ~12h until this bug gets fixed (debugging/fixing/testing took a long time)

===== upgrades =====
* upgrade testing
* Work on python focused kvm upgrade test environment (with a special install_all_python.py script)
* Merge i18n updates for update-manager from rosetta    
* Fix unneeded conffile prompt for apport during upgrade (#348301)
* Work on better recovery for pre-configure failures in update-manager (#328655)
* SRU fixes for install-doc (hardy, intrepid) (#349725) - without some upgrades error out
* Fix bad header line problem in update-manager
* Add version blacklistinst to update-manger to ensure people do not upgrade to the known broken python  
* Fix update-manager bug in the calculation of the update-origin and changelog display 
* Cleanup in update-manager StartUpgrade quirks handling    
* add generic patch handling mechasnism for update-manger and add install-docs as first patch target to ensure the upgrade has a fixed install-docs

===== apt =====
* Debug apt http download hang (some race in the acquire code? - no luck)
* Work on apt gpgv key expire problem (#356012) [long, delicate  problem, delicate code]

===== misc =====
* bugs triage
* Debug auto-launch problem that seb128 reported (launched a bunch of times when updates were still pending)  
* Fix gdebi dependency handling for virtual packages (#353088) 
* Debug crash in update-manager-text (#352679) - fix crash in newt
* Look at kompozer crash at startup
* Inspect mlocate/findutils run without ionice (#332790) and upload fix that removes old left-over cron-daily script
* some SoC work
* some fixes in rapt to make it work on all versions from dapper to jaunty (with adconrad), moved to lp:~rapt-hackers/rapt/trunk
* Look into "findutils"/"locate" conffile not removed and causing high io load (#332790) 
* Debug/fix crash in apturl with "refresh=yes" tag

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor computer-janitor upload 
* Review/upload workaround plugin merge for compiz-fusion-plugins-main (#333284)  
* Test install daily to check for fixed synaptic search bug for fresh  installs (looks alreight, yeah!)

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====
* Was off on Monday

===== Release management =====
* weekly release meeting
* component-mismatches and NBS clean-up

===== Sponsorship =====
* sponsor upload of automake (bug #356612)

===== Packages =====
* follow up on gnome-user-docs to get registration with yelp working again
* fix qt/phonon circular build-dep, so that the packages build again on hppa
* fix qt to build on ia64
* drop suitesparse recommends: on doc packages not in main
* get texlive-bin building with g++-4.3 on arm
* upload hotkey-setup to get rid of all the obsolete ThinkPad handling
* build octave3.0 against current suitesparse for NBS cleanup
* upload glib2.0 to clear fam out of component-mismatches
* pm-utils: try to work around broken kernel caching of ESSID list after suspend/resume
