{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant

=== Apologies ===
* SteveLangasek 

=== Agenda ===
* Status Updates on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic|Karmic]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 9.10 Deliverables
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Daily_Builds
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Distributed_Development
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Copyright_Licensing_for_Packages
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Archive_Reorganization_Phase_1
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#LTS_Release-Debian_Freeze_Coordination
** Boot
** console messages
** enabling usplash by default
** RC Bugs that folks want to highlight or need help on
* AOB

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* Robbie to prioritize RT ticket (#35783), with the important part being screenshots.u.c
* Lars to "dust off the API design he did long ago", and write up a prototype and a sample cli app for querying from the new Debian copyright format
** http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep0/

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Foundations developer interview.

* Installer bug fixes:
** Finally fixed apt-setup #172879 (Unable to skip network access
    during installation).
** console-setup #416949 (Arabic layout broken in karmic). Some other
    keyboard layout updates.
** Restored ntfs-3g syncio patch in the hope that it'll fix Wubi.
** partman-iscsi #435290 (does not prompt for iSCSI install).
** grub-installer #427048 (install the bootloader to each disk in a
    RAID1 array providing /boot).
** Backported the linux-swap fs name reorganisation I got applied
    upstream ages ago to fix parted #399428.
** Fixed grub-installer #444583 (breaks on disks with dmraid metadata
    but only one disk).
** Fixed partman-partitioning/ubiquity #421407 (wrong auto-resize
    default).
** Fixed partman-partitioning #441242 (Ubiquity generates bad fstab
    with NTFS partitions).

* Other bug fixes:
** klibc #416636 (fstype detects ext4 w/o journal as ext2), including
    fighting to get klibc to build.
** Backported fix for debconf #387112 (unused 'use I18N::Langinfo'
    causes upgrade failure).
** Wrote a vmbuilder patch to install grub inside the chroot rather
    than relying on tools in the host, and thus stop breaking when the
    host is using grub2 (#410886). Along the way, backported the
    upstream patch I did ages ago for parted #399428 (parted can't
    create swap partitions in vm images), and adjusted gnu-fdisk,
    gparted, and partitionmanager to cope with this.
** Fixed ntfs-3g #395079 (ntfs-3g mount errors in KDE). Along the way,
    made hal stop crashing all the time (#440797).
** Fixed bash-completion #419509 (no tab completion on path that
    contains a space).

* Sponsorship:
** casper #385305.
** grub2 #440879.

* Fixed build failures: grub, netpbm-free, gettext (merge), kexec-tools, elilo

==== Evan Dandrea ====
===== usb-creator =====
* Tested, fixed, and merged Cody's changes to process all syslinux configuration files, not just a whitelist.
* Lots of bug triage.  Merged a patch from John Gruber.
* Released two new versions.

===== ubiquity =====
* Lots of bug triage.
* Fixed returning to partitioning not working on a partman crash in the KDE frontend.
* Sorted out the reiserfsprogs issue once and for all by having ubiquity explicitly depend on it.
* Added support to ubiquity and installation-report to copy the .disk/info file to the target system.
* Debugged 438155 for Roman, only to find that it was actually a console-setup bug that cjwatson fixed.

===== misc =====
* Released a new slideshow.
* Started working with the Ubuntu One team to get a slide for their project in the slideshow.

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====

** Not much activity as hold on new branches still in place.
** Discussions with LP developers about build-from-branch.

===== Daily Builds =====

** Working on a single command to build a bunch of recipes,
    to make cron easier.

===== Distro Tasks =====

** Squished a nasty D-Bus bug with activation. Thanks to Chris and Scott for their help.
** Helped debug the /tmp clearing issue.
** Archive admin tasks.
** Sponsoring.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/totem/+bug/421318
 (totem Python crash on exit). Helped get a patch from upstream.
* Upgraded laptop to karmic. Total failure. Installed karmic from scratch. Too many essential tools (e.g., epiphany, evolution, gnome-terminal). Re-installed jaunty.
* Computer Janitor i18n bug fixing.
* Heard that Michael will be taking over CJ in lucid. Expressed my sympathies.
* Bug triage (CJ, update-manager, general).

==== Matthias Klose ====
* around 20 uploads to fix build failures
* look at build failures which looked suspicious to wrong-code generation, filed bug reports for affected packages and the toolchain.
* twisted bug fixes for plugin registrations
* openjdk-6 update to accept all certificates provided by ca-certificates
* OOo upload to work around problems on armel, "some" test builds
* python2.6.3 update
* starting to work on GCC PR 40521

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-center =====
* add basic analysing functionality of the db to identify duplicates  in the desktop data (utils/stats.py)
* detect duplicated entries and append a (pkgname) in this case (can happen for generic app names like Terminal or System Monitor)
* add auto-switching back from the progress view (#431907)  
* look into 404 handling of thumbs/images with JS/xmlhttp, not a workable solution as the webkit security gets in our way
* aptdaemon bug triage
* aptdaemon: improving the transaction tester script,
* debugging a race when two transaction connectto the debconf socket 
* add patch for #432607 that hopefully avoids the race with aptdaemon and its debconf frontend 
* aptdaemon: new upload with fix for debconf race (#432607)
* aptdaemon: debug/fix lock bug when the release upgrader is running
* Aptdaemon: package new bzr snapshot  (lots of fixes, thanks to Sebastian Heinlein)
* ensure the UI is kept alive while the auth dialog is up
* work on 404 handling and ubuntu branding for not-found images (lp:~mvo/software-center/ubuntu-404)
* Software-center: status call  
* fix duplicated data entries from thunar 
* general cleanup of the app-install-data duplicates found by the stats.py script (feels like cleaning the stables of Augean)
* Aptdaemon: add locking fix, add _syslog_handler crash fix, upload new version
* lots of triage/bugfixing in software-center
* debug/fix locale.setdefaultlocale bug (#444316)
* Debug/fix issues with popcon data for meta-packages that results in poor search results for certain strings like flash

===== update-manager =====
* work on langauage-suppport-translations transition (#439296)
* add support for hardy->karmic upgrades (for kubuntu, also useful for early testing of th lts->lts upgrades) 
* add workaround for -x permission problem on kde
* Auto-upgrade tester: add lts-kubuntu profile (for riddell)  
* commit stepped upgrade functionatlity for the OEM team to 
   lp:~mvo/update-manager/hardy-oem  

===== beta =====
* App-install-data-ubuntu update for beta  
* finally uploaded the app-install-data-ubuntu update, extraction took ages  this time, sorry for that. the next cycle should switch to a extract tool based on launchpadlib
* Upgrade testing (ubuntu-desktop, server, manual and automatic), putting results into the isotracker 
* Review/upload new command-not-found data

===== misc =====
* Travel planning/booking to UDS lucid  
* Look into soyuz bug with a openoffice.org upload that caused a double newline in the Sources.gz (#436182)  
* fix locking in the extrace_changelog script on rookery
* python-apt: work on improved locking  
* fix kpackagekit crash (#438279)   
* Merge gnome-codec-installer (in bzr), not uploaded yet
* loking into /tmp clean issue #444252 on upgrade

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor compiz upload with a bunch of fixes

==== Scott James Remnant ====
* Returned from Linux Plumber's Conference, lost Monday due to
   travelling and jet lag, lost Tuesday due to ADSL downtime (took this
   as a swap day in the end)

* Interviewed candidate for Foundations Team role

* Debugged and fixed issue with partitioned MD devices
* Created /dev/VG/LV symlink from udev for LVM2 devices

* Improved method to have Upstart reconnect to D-Bus so that it doesn't
   cause Upstart to forget all event state, and now happens as part of
   the dbus job's post-start
* Improved the initramfs PID transition to recover from common errors
   such as the PID not existing
* Set the console of the rc scripts to /dev/null again

* Further fixes to initramfs framebuffer console loading
* Fixed gdm to stop when entering single user mode

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* beta release
* manually seed libgd2-xpm in the desktop to resolve an edubuntu conflict
* FFe processing
* publishing fixes for zsync files on releases.ubuntu.com
* fixes to UEC test plan links

===== Packages =====
* fix brightness notification on recent thinkpads in hal. (Bug:372874)
* debhelper: fixes to make dh_installinit snippets for upstart both robust and policy-compliant
* fix boot-time nfs mounting for upstart (Bug:431248), and clean up a few bugs that fell out from this (Bug:364861, Bug:441055, Bug:441855).
* fix mutt regression in handling of text/html mime type
* software-center build fix (.PHONY vs. debhelper 7)
* acpi-support: prune some more redundant code
* hdparm, pm-utils: support for respecting /etc/hdparm.conf when setting apm options on power events (Bug:238555)

===== Sponsorship =====
* pm-utils (Bug:437796)
* acpi-support
* laptop-mode-tools (Bug:384875), because Tormod is awesome

===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties
