{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* BarryWarsaw - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* LoïcMinier
* MatthiasKlose
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek

=== Apologies ===

* MichaelVogt

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21445|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

** [ACTION] cjwatson to spec out requirements for a better bug report script based on launchpadlib
** [ACTION] barry to implement script

=== Chair for next meeting ===

* cjwatson

=== Lightning Round ===

==== Gary Lasker ====

I've been working on OEM tasks from last Thu through yesterday.  Now back to
my Software Center todo list, bug fixing and triage, etc.  (done)

==== Scott James Remnant ====

I rewrote the Plymouth VT handling code, then I rewrote the Plymouth X
transition/handover code, then I rewrote bits of various plugins to make them
work, then I fixed the binary to remove various race conditions, NOW FETCH ME
WIL WHEATON!

==== Evan Dandrea ====

mostly ubiquity UI changes after a meeting the other day with the design team
(sorry release team), looking into an apt-setup bug whereby if you have a USB
disk that exposes a fake CD device, apt-setup fails.  (done)

==== Steve Langasek ====

continuing work on casper plymouth support; FFes, we have them; working on the
supportable-binaries spec (done)

==== Loic Minier ====

Was on travel to London; doing a lot of interviews and working on random ARM
bugs.  (done)

==== Matthias Klose ====

vacation last week; now working on llvm updates, preparing icedtea6-1.8
release, python updates to new subminor releases. (done)

==== James Westby ====

fixing bugs in bzr-builddeb, still need to get that synced from unstable,
chasing failures, and working with LP developers on the build from branch
feature. More of the same to come.  (done)

==== Colin Watson ====

done: parted 2.2; grub 1.98; failed to finish console-setup/plymouth
interaction fixes but had a good go at it and should be able to finish in
time; blocked: nothing;

todo: partman-base fixes for advanced format drives (doing the hardware setup
today); dpkg performance/correctness backports, nearly ready to go; running
around like headless chicken fixing bugs for beta 1

==== Barry Warsaw ====

Several branches merged for SC ratings and reviews.  Still to decide whether
we're going to make it.  Good discussion on canonical-tech about the url
structure for r&r server.  Computer Janitor dbus refactoring mostly done,
waiting for review.  Would love to get minor ui exception to clean the gui of
unused elements.  Starting implementation work for PEP 3147 today. (done)

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

None

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

Several branches merged for SC ratings and reviews.  Still to decide whether
we're going to make it.  Good discussion on canonical-tech about the url
structure for r&r server.  Computer Janitor dbus refactoring mostly done,
waiting for review.  Would love to get minor ui exception to clean the gui of
unused elements.  Starting implementation work for PEP 3147 today. (done)

==== Colin Watson ====

* Merged: parted, openssh

* Sponsorship:
** hostname #523588 (needs more work, bounced).

* foundations-lucid-gfxboot-update:
** Implemented gfxboot theme changes, as discussed with design team
    last week.  Spec now complete.

* Sped up grub-probe filesystem queries by a factor of 10 (#425650).

* Tried to fix console-setup's Plymouth interaction.  Not quite there
   yet. :-(

* Miscellaneous kickseed fixes (#419392, #526422).

* Fix apt-setup CD stanza generation (#527641).

* Various minor installer bug fixes.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* UI fixes to ubiquity.
** Prevent the timezone map from making the installer window massive
by only requesting half its width and height, rather than using a
complex and dodgy test to set it to a reasonably large size, given the
dimensions of the desktop.
** Only enable the scrolled view on the user setup page if the
desktop is particularly small (< 600px height)
** Make the partitioner bars left aligned and thinner.
** Stop the language selector from resizing every time a new item is selected.
** Progress bar handling for the partitioning page is now handled by
the page itself.  It mostly hides it for the automatic page (showing
just a spinning cursor) and uses a GtkSpinner on the main window for
the advanced partitioning page.  Fixed the ellipsizing of progress
messages on the advanced partitioning page.
** The automatic partitioning page is now shown immediately, rather
than when its contents are ready.
** The language page's contents is not shown until it's had its text
substituted and translated.
** Fixed the alignment of elements on the console-setup page.
* Moved the new live CD greeter concept into ubiquity.  We now skip
the isolinux menu unless a key is pressed (thanks to Colin) and into
ubiquity, which gives the option to either exit to the live CD session
or continue with the install.  Moved the alpha warning into this page.
 Filed a feature freeze exception for all of this.
* Spent a lot of time tracking down bug #532502, which was causing
the slideshow not to display.  This turned out to be a security
feature that Google added to Webkit and enabled by default.  Fixed by
disabling it for the slideshow.

==== Gary Lasker ====

===== Software Center =====
** Finished back/forward navigation in "Get Software" section feature
    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#get-software-navigation
** Refactored PPAs/channel view code, it's cleaner and much easier
    to use
** Added support for Canonical Partners channel
** Fixed 12 or so bugs, emphasis on fixes needed before UI freeze
** Bug triage
** Weekly Software Center call with mpt and mvo

===== General =====
** OEM tasks Thursday, Friday
** Engineering rotation allocation this week
** 60% platform, 40% OEM

==== James Westby ====

===== Distributed Development =====

** Much the same as last week.
** Fixing bugs and merging branches for bzr-builddeb.
** Chasing import failures.
** Talking with LP developers about build-from-recipe.

===== Other =====

** Archive admin duty.
** Sponsoring.

==== Loïc Minier ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====

==== Scott James Remnant ====

* Six years at Canonical!

* Further discussion about usb-modeswitch on Ubuntu lists and upstream
* Multi-touch discussion

* Plymouth.
** Started to send patches upstream as I work through the issues.
** Rewrote the entire VT code of plymouth
** Rewrote the deactivate/X transition code

* Debugged issue with OEM where mountall wasn't getting the filesystem
   event out of the D-Bus socket before exiting

* Some back/forth with Marc Tardif about generating bootcharts in the
   Hardware Certification lab

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Release management =====
* Finalize the transition from motu-release to ubuntu-release
* FFe processing

===== Packages =====
* Upload ubuntu-dev-tools, so requestsync sends FFe requests to the right
place now
* Fixes to bzr-email, bzr-builddeb

===== Misc =====
* chaired foundations meeting
* archive admin duties
