{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt

=== Lightning round order ===

{{{#!python
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'surbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
}}}

=== Apologies ===

* ScottJamesRemnant - holiday
* SurbhiPalande - holiday

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27561|alpha-3 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===
* EvanDandrea

=== Meeting Log ===
<nowiki>[[attachment:meeting-log.html]]</nowiki>

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

===== f-m-python-versions =====

* import debian's python 2.7 package
* fix sysconfig/python2.7-minimal bug & submitted debian bug report
* updated udd docs
* moved py27 stack to ~pythoneers
* dealing with numpy/pygtk ppa ftbfs

===== f-m-robust-python-packaging =====

* ported doko's versioned .so files patch to py3k
* repaired test failures
* added distutils support
* testing
* discussed w/POX
* will take upstream to python-dev

===== miscellaneous =====

* discovered and reported initramfs-tools-bin mav amd64 package fail
* rt issue re: pipermail
* ppu rights granted for c-j, flufl.* and a few others
* need to upload new versions

==== Colin Watson ====

* Reviewed and applied Phillip Susi's patch to fix a dmraid regression in lucid installations (Bug:568050).

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-m-spring-cleaning:
** Removed gnupg-curl and libldap (and extensive dependencies) from the base system.

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-m-btrfs-support:
** Uploaded Joey's partman-btrfs to Debian, synced to Ubuntu, and fixed a simple bug in it.  Installer support should work now.
** Landed basic grub-probe btrfs / support in Ubuntu (Surbhi is working on /boot support).
** Applied btrfs discovery patch to Debian parted (cleaning up a few other bugs along the way), and landed that in Ubuntu.

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-m-uefi-support:
** Stopped adding umask=007,gid=46 to fstab for EFI System Partitions.
** Extended EFI version of grub-install to be able to install into a UEFI-specification-compliant location.
** Handled GRUB EFI upgrades.
** Arranged to mount method=efi filesystems on /boot/efi.
** Created EFI System Partitions automatically on */efi subarchitectures.

* Technical Board meeting (chaired).

* Merged: initramfs-tools (giant), grub2 (and consequential fixups in lupin)

* Sponsorship:
** btrfs-tools Bug:591412.
** apache2-mpm-itk/hardy Bug:595978.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Meeting with Michael to discuss the state of the install design specification and brainstorm for the unfinished parts.
* Mail to Amanda to discuss the restricted extras option.
* Started working on the progress widget.  Leveraged VteTerminal and in-memory GTK styles to match Michael's mock-ups.
* Ran through a ubiquity install in debug mode to verify where we are writing to the debconf database (SET and INPUT).

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
* on vacation last week
