{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* ScottJamesRemnant
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby - chair
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* SteveLangasek

=== Apologies ===

* ColinWatson - on holiday
* RobbieWilliamson - paternity leave
* BarryWarsaw - vacation
* LoïcMinier - caction

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Platform sprint
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21444|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* Reminder for release meeting, if due this week
* Select chair for next meeting
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* None

=== Lightning Round ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

==== Colin Watson ====

Short week (holidays).

* foundations-lucid-kickstart-iscsi-support:
** Finished and tested iSCSI authentication support.
** Implemented basic Kickstart support.
** Done!

* Merged: hostname

* Imported grub2 into bzr and started on a merge.

* Sponsorship:
** nbd #399707.

* TB meeting.

* foundations-lucid-ubiquity-partitioner-optimisation:
** Experimented with some profiling tools and settled on a good-enough
    method which isn't going to fall apart halfway through the cycle.
** Baseline profiling: 74.7 seconds.
** Optimise debconf_select inner loop.
** Cache output of partition_tree_choices for each disk.
** Gather basic information from parted_server a disk at a time rather
    than a partition at a time.
** All the above takes us down to 46.8 seconds.
** Worked on rechecking whether cdebconf provides any performance
    benefit. Unfortunately (as expected) I ran into several places where
    ubiquity's cdebconf support has bitrotted, so I had to fix those
    instead. The next set of builds should get further ...

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* keyboard detection code.  Done, just need to sort out proper kernel keycode to X keycode mapping.
** work on applying and saving (debconf) the result.
** ubiquity UI integration work.
** ubiquity build system integration.
* keyboard spec.
* d-i kernel update.
* reviewing new installer design specification.
* sorted travel for the sprint.

==== Gary Lasker ====

===== Engineering rotation time allocations =====
* Platform 50%
* OEM 30%
* (Holiday 20%)
===== Software Center =====
* Uploaded a fix for LP: #437868 (File -> Install will install the wrong app).  mvo reviewed and merged into trunk.
** In progress - Code to reselect the correct app in the app list panel after an install/remove has completed.
* Reviewed mpt's spec for apturl integration.
* Phone calls with mvo and mpt.
===== Misc =====
* Holiday Thursday
* Attended mterry's awesome dh7 session (OEM).

==== James Westby ====

* Spent lots of time on debugging why the importer puts so much load on codehosting. Tried a few things, but the problem isn't gone yet.
* Fixed some more import failures caused by importer bugs.
* More discussion with the bzr team on what to focus on.
* Call with Martin Pool about that, and further reaching topics.
* Sent around lots of information on current status and plans for the benefit of those that have not been involved at every stage.
* Worked to increase the number of "top 100" packages that have vcs-imports as the bzr team will focus on that.
* Sorted travel for the sprint.
* Some (little) work on archive-admin and sponsorship.

==== Loïc Minier ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

* ARM toolchain work (thumb2 fixes, link by default with --hash-style=both, testing).
* Prepare packages of GCC 4.5 for a test rebuild
* OpenJDK 6 update
* Update OpenJDK 7 packages, prepare fixes for IcedTea

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== apt =====
* updating/merging for the ubuntu branch
* merging from the donkult branch
* Upload new apt to lucid
* Apt: implement history log file (lp:~mvo/apt/history)
* Apt: merge from the debian branch (up to 0.7.25)

===== update-manager =====
* work on restart-required-dialog spec
* Work on auto-upgrader-tester setup
* debug failure rpeorted by aquarius
* fix bug in mirror usage detection
* add slideshow integration

===== software-center =====
* Review/merge lp:~glatzor/software-center/glatzor (many thanks)
* Upload new aptdaemon/software-center
* work on sub-categories parser
* upload aptdaemon karmic backport (ppa:software-store-developers/ppa)
* review/merge lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/menu-install-remove-fix
* Upload new app-install-data-ubuntu with a bunch of sub-categories added
* work on sub-categories for "packages"
* work on integration for subcategories with the search
* profile work on the appview
* add DontDisplay tag
* couchdb research
* work on search improvments and better handling of "-" (with upstream, but not much improved)
* debug/fix race in pending-view
* debug/fix counting of the available software
* append pathbar search elements for searches
* ratings and reviews conf call

===== sponsoring =====
* cmake, cheese

===== misc =====
* Call with djsiegel about upgrade experience
* travel preparing Portland
* Maintainance-status: mail julian with some test script data
* Maintainance-status: apt-ftparchive integration

==== Scott James Remnant ====

* Plymouth:
** Fixed up packaging to install the headers we need for writing clients using the library, and to add the path to the pkg-config CFLAGS
** Some debugging on startup crash occasionally seen; this looks like it's probably caused by the DRM backend not cleaning up properly, so fallback to framebuffer or console isn't working properly

* initramfs boot performance:
** Only setup keymap, console and font in the initramfs if we're going to load a framebuffer (ie. have a splash screen), or if we panic out to a shell - this takes about half a second off the boot
** Replaced the shell pre-requisite sorting code with tsort, this sped up update-initramfs noticeably and gave a slight boost to the boot too
** Generate an ORDER file at initramfs creation time, which runs each script in the right order.  Source this file during boot instead of performing pre-requisite calculation each time.
** Generate modules.dep and modules.alias at initramfs creation time, rather than running depmod on each boot.
** Replace the wait for filesystem and swap device loops with a C binary that uses libudev to wait for the right device, and then outputs the filesystem type
** Avoids all calls to udevadm settle in the initramfs, which is a big win for boot speed
** Avoids repeated calls to blkid and/or fstype, using the answer already in the udevdb

* mountall:
** Ported to use usplash for all outpu
** Fixed to read /proc/cmdline in the binary rather than using shell which fools Upstart's fork following, and doesn't work if /proc isn't mounted yet
** Fixed to ensure that fork() isn't called before becoming a daemon

* Misc:
** fixed network-interface and network-interface-security jobs
** added mkdir /var/run/network to networking job
** removed the boot-time dkms component, and added update-initramfs like logic to its postinst

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Packages =====
* cryptsetup regressions fixed in lucid, SRU prepared (bug #449380,
* esound fix for library transition
* merge a52dec
* acpi-support: support undock events (LP: #18864), get rid of
laptop-mode-tools overriding (LP: #244838, #490186)
* net-snmp: clean up debconf prompting

===== Specs =====
* work on machine-readable copyright file spec

===== Sponsorship =====
* libdvdnav (bug #466389)

===== Misc =====
* archive admin duties
