{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Present ===

* Colin Watson
* Alexander Sack
* Bryce Harrington
* Chris Cheney
* Evan Dandrea
* James Westby
* Lars Wirzenius
* Luke Yelavich
* Matthias Klose
* Oliver Grawert
* Steve Langasek

Arne is on holiday

== Agenda ==

* State-of-the-onion on Alpha 1
* Review of Outstanding Actions
* Minutes Location and Distribution
* alsa-lib Testing

=== Actions ===

New Actions:
** ACTION:  cjwatson (or delegate) to updating the release schedule once alpha 1 has been released
** ACTION:  bryce to set up an area on the public wiki for posting meeting minutes, and begin posting them to ubuntu-devel@ instead of distro-team@ going forward.
** ACTION:  bryce to review/move some past minutes as appropriate

Carried Over:
** ACTION: asac to make an informational spec out of intel connection manager session notes.
** ACTION: calc to provide updated OOo priority reports to Sun
** ACTION: calc to draft notes for ooo-langpack spec
** ACTION: cjwatson to review Ago's wubi spec and decide assignment
** ACTION: doko to investigate if MoM's host machines has the disk space to do Testing and/or Experimental merges
** ACTION: TheMuso to write the boot-performance spec
** ACTION: Everyone not occupied with 8.04.1, spec writing, or urgent matters should focus on getting merge queue down; esp. keep eye on main sponsorship queue
** ACTION: asac, TheMuso, doko, ogra to list travel details for Distro sprint at DistroTeam / Sprints / Intrepid

=== State-of-the-onion on Alpha 1 ===

There's still a large number of merges to do, and lot of the delay is due to necessary work on 8.04.1. However, the desktop is installable and the installer is looking like it will work.  There are some initial CD images up at least for the Alternate CD which may sort of work.  Desktop CD is probably a ways off yet, but despite that it would be worthwhile to have an alpha in the next week or so, assuming Steve and the QA folks have enough bandwidth to take advantage of it for (at least minimal) testing.

Alpha 2 is currently scheduled for the same day as 8.04.1, which is probably suboptimal, so we decided to move it a week later, to give us a bit better gap between alpha-1 and alpha-2

 ACTION:  Someone (cjwatson or his delegate) to updating the release schedule once alpha 1 has been released

=== Review of Outstanding Actions ===

** asac to make an informational spec out of intel connection manager session notes.
*** Still needs to be pushed back; it's on asac's todo list but not as high priority.

** [DONE] asac + slangasek to discuss inclusion of ffox 3.0 final in the final 8.04.1 CD's
*** <asac> done. 3.0 is out. yes
*** Everyone cheers for seeing this in -updates on release day \o/

** [DONE] calc to make an informational spec for the ooo release schedule session notes
*** <calc> done
*** Also need something in the form of a calendar

** calc to provide updated OOo priority reports to Sun
*** <calc> some updates have happened since last week, but still have lots to do on that front
*** Will keep this as an open action until an email is sent to the OOo people, then treat as ongoing afterwards

** calc to draft notes for ooo-langpack spec
*** Notes seem to be lost.  calc will try to recreate from memory and post a draft for cjwatson and doko to fill in

** cjwatson to review Ago's wubi spec and decide assignment
*** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiIntrepid
*** needs a good bit of work as a lot of that is still a pre-session dump

** doko to investigate if MoM's host machines has the disk space to do Testing and/or Experimental merges
*** <doko> not yet done

** TheMuso to write the boot-performance spec
*** the notes are on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-Intrepid/Report/Platform
*** it's a little vague, and might need a chat with Keybuk to flesh out
*** TheMuso will take a stab at it

** Everyone not occupied with 8.04.1, spec writing, or urgent matters should focus on getting merge queue down; esp. keep eye on main sponsorship queue
*** The goal is at DebianImportFreeze (Thursday next week) that each package should have been merged at least once.  (see https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Debian/ImportFreeze).  The DebianImportFreeze date won't be affected by the alpha-1 schedule change.
*** For main, we have 211 outstanding merges, compared with 174 at the equivalent point in time during Hardy.  So not an emergency, but we're definitely behind where we need to be.
*** Core developers can help especially by keeping an eye on the main sponsorship queues

** Alexander, Luke, Matthias, Oliver to make travel arrangements for Distro sprint and list at DistroTeam / Sprints / Intrepid
*** please update wiki.c.c/DistroTeam/Sprints/Intrepid when you're done
*** So far listed: Bryce, Chris, Colin, Evan, James, Lars, Steve L.
*** TheMuso needs help getting from airport to hotel early Sunday morning

=== Location of Minutes ===

There was a discussion on the mailing lists that more info needs to be made publically visible.  Our meetings are held on a public channel now, so our meeting minutes should be public too.  Some past minutes could be moved if there's no obvious partner discussions or whatever

** ACTION: bryce to set up an area on the public wiki for posting meeting minutes, and begin posting them to ubuntu-devel@ instead of distro-team@ going forward.
** ACTION: bryce to review/move some past minutes as appropriate

[For the first action I've set up https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PlatformTeam and pulled over the minutes from this month's meetings. -- bryce]

=== alsa-lib Testing ===

If you use alsa apps on hardy regularly, please test with the alsa-lib in proposed.  We're pondering using alsa-lib 1.0.16 for 8.04.1, but it needs lots of broad regression testing...  This is the biggest undecided thing for .1
