{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Kernel ===
 
* 2.6.32
 
=== GCC ===
 
==== Blockers ====
* Debian has not switched to 4.4 due to a "licensing blip"
** Ubuntu decided Free Software Foundation didn't possibly mean to apply GPL to generated code.
** debian-legal has not replied about this problem.
==== Actions ====
* slangasek (vorlon) to send email (to debian-devel) on why Ubuntu decided 
* doko to send email to debian-release and gcc

=== Python ===
==== Blockers ====
* python 2.6 by default in Debian is currently blocked because from a language point of view, installing two different modules in two different directories changes the behavior of imports (relative imports)
** packages which use plugin systems don't expect plugins to be found in multiple locations
** this is a python-support vs. python-central issue, with each tool installing to a different location
** no tool other than python-support can install to the directory used by python-support

==== Actions ====
* Wait a few weeks.  There may be OOB talk that fixes it.
* Technical board(s) should try to solve this problem.  If they can't, vorlon and sabdfl will attack the problem.  It is, though, a very technical problem, which a general board might not be qualified to decide.

=== Java ===
 
* build 16.1.6.1 in Debian 
** in Karmic
* Lucid has the next level

* openjdk is unmaintained in Debian (unless doko uploads it)
** team-maintained by a team of one - help wanted
 
==== Blockers ====
** rejected in Debian due to issue with copyright file 
** not insurmountable, just needs a bit of effort to comply with the current copyright file rules
   
=== Perl ===
* ubuntu has 5.10.0 and debian has 5.10.1
* requires a merge, but shouldn't be an issue
 
=== X ===
* ubuntu has xorg 7.5, and debian does as well
* ubuntu has xserver 1.7.5, and debian does as well
* ubuntu has mesa 7.7-4, and debian does as well (in unstable)
* ubuntu shares the same upstream version as debian on nearly all libx* packages
* ubuntu shares the same upstream version as debian on nearly all x11proto- packages
* ubuntu shares the same upstream version as debian on nearly all video driver packages
* ubuntu shares the same upstream version as debian on nearly all input driver packages
* For a thorough comparison of Debian and Ubuntu version comparisons on a version-by-version viewpoint, see: http://www2.bryceharrington.org:8080/X/PkgList/versions_current.html
 
=== OpenOffice ===
 
=== Additional Items ===
* Boost.  One is uploaded now, but don't want to switch now if Debian will switch again.
 
 
