{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== No Meeting This Week ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====

* Some more minor assistance with boot problems: fixed run-time expat libraries to install to /lib.

* More attempts to get Wubi working, integrating a grub.d script and adjusting grub2 to ignore the usual Linux handling for loop-mounted   filesystems, and explicitly calling update-grub on lupin-support installation.

* Installer:
** Fixed dh-di #430724 (manual partitioning is not shown in ubiquity).
** Ported ubiquity's init scripts to Upstart.
** Fixed ubiquity #431048 (crash on OEM end-user setup).

* Merged: dpkg (#427854)

* Sponsorship:
** fsl #402174 (universe)
** xscreensaver #129769.
** rsyslog #430220 (not quite yet).
** cdrkit #430190 (not quite yet).
** quilt #428657.
** edubuntu-addon-meta #404608.

* Resurrected ia64 (fairly simple dbus link order fix plus some buildd babysitting).

* Eucalyptus:
** Fixed #425933 (Eucalyptus, avahi-publish component discovery, and eucalyptus configuration not functional if front-end machine has more than one interface).

* Blitzed TB actions from last meeting.

* GRUB:
** Investigated blinking cursor on boot. Not a GRUB issue.
** Fixed grub2 #431179 (GRUB_DEFAULT="label" is ignored).
** Stop throwing away errors from os-prober, to help see what's wrong with Wubi.
** Fixed grub-installer #433259 (/etc/grub.d/ contains both 30-otheros and 30_os-prober).

==== Evan Dandrea ====
===== slideshow =====
* Finally got reflections using javascript and css in the slideshow working for the Firefox icon, solving the derivative works problem.
* Released a new version of the slideshow.

===== ubiquity =====
* Released two new versions of ubiquity.
* Fixed a few bugs in ubiquity:
** Suppress Pango warning about not being able to open /root/.pangorc.
** Use the page name instead of the new step name when considering both partitioning pages.
** Fix broken conditional statement that prevented process_autopartitioning and info_loop from being called.
** Disable the forward button for the usersetup page when coming from both the automatic and manual partitioning pages, rather than just the latter.
** Open a browser window when links are clicked on in the slideshow (LP: #432145).

===== usb-creator =====
* Got my patch to devkit-disks upstream.  davidz fixed the other and released a new devkit-disks, meaning that we could finally re-enable the format button.
* Fixed a few bugs in usb-creator:
** Add PolicyKit support (LP: #273483).
** Move logging back to the home directory, now that usb-creator is run as a regular user (LP: #431266).
** Use GIO instead of gnomevfs.  Only lookup GNOME device names and icons as needed.
** Remove the device in the DeviceKit-disks backend when it's removed from the system.
** Only set the non-size columns to expand to fill available space in the GTK+ frontend.  Set a minimum width of 75px for all columns.
** ifdef out some Linux-specific code that was breaking the Windows binary.
** Add the missing retry dialog to the GTK+ frontend.
** Fix a deadlock when the failed dialog runs.
** Always return something from get_gnome_drive.
** Explicitly depend on mtools, just in case someone removes it and expects usb-creator to still work.
** Re-enable the format button now that Devicekit-disks 007 has been released.

===== misc =====
* Linux Plumbers Conference in Portland, OR.

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====

** Reviewed more work from Muharem. THanks.
** Worked on some failures to import.

===== Daily Builds =====

** Triaged some bugs filed by Neil. Thanks.

===== Kerneloops =====

** Nothing.
** No bugs have been filed. It doesn't seem like there is anything left to do here, just keeping an eye on it.

===== Other =====

** Archive admin day.
** Sponsoring from Bazaar merge proposals.
** Debugging some karmic bugs that are getting in my way.
** Looked at the gnome-system-tools changes to make it less hostile to ecryptfs. Saved by Kees, thanks.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

* Looked briefly at Haiku, the BeOS re-implementation as free software. The live CD boots very quickly even under kvm (mere seconds), but the installed system does not boot at all.
 
* Verified that Computer Janitor actually removes old kernels (yup, it does).
 
* Computer Janitor UI de-threading does not seem to have fixed mysterious random crashes, but also there are no new crashes. Still detesting the difficulty of writing threaded code.
 
* Upgraded to current karmic. Things broke. Fixed some, worked around some, upgraded again. Works now.
 
* Worked on getting debdelta working on hardy + hardy-security.

==== Matthias Klose ====
* Work on OOo bug fixes
** Two test builds on karmic, one test build on jaunty after backporting to jaunty (started the week before).
** Rebuild tests of affected library with jaunty/karmic toolchains, bisecting toolchains, bisecting object files of the affected library.
** Identify problem (either OOo or ARM binutils), and work around it for now.
** Fix some other ARM bugs
** Make sure that OOo works with OpenJDK on ARM.
** Upload package.
** Upstream bug reports
* ARM soft float abi fixes, discovered while working on OOo, fixed known packages (OOo, OpenJDK, libffi, gcj-*). Upstream bug fixes.
* Fixed OpenJDK buildability on powerpc and sparc (xulrunner build failures caused by redefinition of the `inline' word in an installed header of wireless-tools.
* Fixed dpkg, uninstallability of emacs22 used as a b-d.
* Fixed mountall micompilation on powerpc, applied suggested fix in gcc-4.4.
* Work on package removal bugs
* Some buildd maintenance, bug triage.
* OpenJDK sound fix.
* sun-java removal discussion
* binutils update

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-store =====
* bug triage
* MIR report for software-store / aptdaemon
* Fix software-store crash in on_iter_children()
* review/merge the run-uninstalled branch
* review/merge the disable-install-button 
* review/merge software-store branch from rugby
* add i18n to the desktop file parser  
* fix corrupted entires from duplicated names (e.g. Terminal)
* screenshort fetching fixes, database cleanup 
* create experimental pathbar-integration branch (lp:~mvo/software-store/pathbar-integration)
* move common code into the softwarestore.db.database 
* Aptdaemon - fix bug in medium required
* Aptdaemon - work on config file promp feature
* Aptdaemon: debug/fix hang in InstallPackage
* discuss posibility to get debconf support into packagekit this hopefully opens up a new possibility for karmic+1
* fix i18n bugs (gtkbuilder/gettext interaction)
* bug triage, fixing, dive into unicode sorting
* Mail about screenshots.ubuntu.com
* auto update version information 
* set user agent in the screenshot fetcher
* fix crash in cancel handling
* implement dbus interface in the update-software-store code to ensure that the store does not crash if a database update happens in the background (#430603)
* implement #426252 (status bar updates string update on searching)  
* fixing bugs (#432645, #433520, #432704)         
* fix bug in on_iter_nth_child
* debug debconf failure in aptdaemon (multiple-connection issue, no luck so far)
* Debug/fix software-store failure with empty comment lines (#432995) 
* fix conffile prompting
* fixes in media change requests  
* debug/fix gst import failure    
* aptdaemon - commit a bunch of fixes to trunk 
* add basic license information to the page
* fix default focus (#433828)  
* implement basic arrow key moving in the categories view and get the missing up,down key handling from Stuart (thanks!)

===== alpha6 =====
* Command-not-found data update for alpha6 
* Apt-ddtp update work

===== misc =====
* a bit of network/hardware trouble
* Help OEM with update-manager and mini9 and push to lp:~mvo/update-manager/hardy-oem 
* Discuss old DynamicMirrorDessison spec again   
* Look into python-apt merge with debian, send comments to juliank
* Port apturl to not use add/remove anymore and use software-properties-gtk 
* Work on compiz update (assert failure when core is loaded twice) 
* Upload new compiz  
* Look into more efficient way to publish changlogs (discuss with bigjools, loo kinto launchpadlib) lp:~mvo/+junk/lp-archive-crawler
* Upload new synaptic with better differenciate between official supported and not supported

===== sponsoring =====
* Merge compiz-fusion-plugins-main change (#402633)
* Review/merge language-selector changes by arne (and upload)  
* "review"/upload xserver-xorg-video-ati upload for tormod   
==== Mike Terry ====
* Rsyslog: Fixed syslog user deletion that was causing some problems when purging old sysklogd
* Fixed a couple ftbfs: 432470 & 404272
* Ubiquity: Fixed Polish (and possibly others) lacking a default timezone
* Researched sensible-browser vs xdg-open fallback behavior for 204858

==== Scott James Remnant ====
* LinuxCon and Linux Plumbers

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* alpha6 released

===== Packages =====
* Fix cryptsetup to use usplash again as intended, and fix initramfs-tools to properly invoke the needed scripts. Bug #433773.
* Fix dbus to not set rpath unnecessarily. Bug #432718.

===== Sponsorship =====
* rsyslog, sysklogd (bug #401056)

===== Misc =====
* sprinting with kernel team at LinuxCon
* working with Scott on boot boogz
* reading, on the bus at 7:30 in the morning on the way to LPC to arrive in time for the 8am foundations team meeting, an email informing me that there is no 8am foundations team meeting
