{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-fix-iscsi-root
* '''Created''': 2009-12-02
* '''Contributors''': ColinWatson
* '''Packages affected''': `open-iscsi`, `partman-iscsi`, `netbase`

=== Summary ===

Fix remaining issues that make it difficult to install and boot from an iSCSI root device.

=== Release Note ===

Installing with the root filesystem on iSCSI now really works (after some partial attempts in previous releases) and is properly tested.

=== Rationale ===

We added the iSCSI-root capability in previous releases, but apparently it still breaks for some people.

=== Design ===

Chase down issues that cause `iscsi.initramfs` not to be written (Bug:447377).

Change `/etc/init.d/networking` to avoid stopping networking if the root filesystem is on iSCSI. (If the shutdown parts of this script are converted to Upstart, apply analogous changes there if still necessary.)

Make sure to bring up the interface configured in `netcfg` in the initramfs (Bug:473036).

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

(We particularly need a test plan for this, due to historical problems; the Launchpad whiteboard for this specification includes a work item to develop one in conjunction with the QA team.)

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

----
CategorySpec
