{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* MichaelVogt - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* LoïcMinier
* MatthiasKlose
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek

=== Apologies ===

On Holiday: Scott James Remnant, James Westby 

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21445|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Spot check of A3 specs with low completion rate:
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-center-repository-based-index
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-oem-dvd-iso
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-index-based-downloads-client
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-gfxboot-update
** UbuntuSpec:mobile-lucid-une-2d-launcher
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-boot-experience
** UbuntuSpec:dx-lucid-xsplash
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-reliable-device-id-in-grub
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-fix-iscsi-root
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* Reminder for release meeting, if due this week
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

None

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

I was on leave, so it was a short week for me.  I worked on a rewrite of PEP
999 which is now ready for an official submission upstream.  I also worked on
some bugs in computer-janitor (503727) and read up on dbus and policykit.

==== Colin Watson ====

* foundations-lucid-reliable-device-id-in-grub:
** Continued work on removing reliance on device.map, including trying
    to avoid use of (hd0) in both grub-installer and ubiquity.  (I got
    sidetracked into improving the way ubiquity handles raising
    privilege, and that's now much cleaner.)  Spent a fair bit of time
    beating DM-RAID handling into shape.

* Platform/IS review meeting.

* Sponsorship:
** apt-show-versions (intrepid) #292872 (no action required, closed).
** bash-completion #482753 (unconvinced, commented).

* Added launchpad-integration support to vim (#453103).

* foundations-lucid-fix-iscsi-root:
** Work on partman-iscsi correctness, prompted by an affected user
    showing up on IRC.  Fortuitously let me deal with most of #473036,
    which is a Lucid work item; there's just one part of that left,
    namely working out what to do with persistent network interface
    naming in the initramfs.

* openssh bug-fix backports (#497781, #505301).

* Fixed a partman-uboot/ubiquity integration bug (#462798).

* Fixed rescue mode to work with DM-RAID.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== Gary Lasker ====
===== Software Center =====
* Finished up performance and user experience improvements for app reselect.  Selected app now    tracked per category/subcategory.  Branch reviewed by   mvo and merged.
* In progress - key navigation feature, up one level on
   backspace (LP: #509783)
===== General =====
* US Holiday Monday
* Time allocation this week
** Platform team 40%, OEM team 40%, Holiday 20%
* OEM engineering meeting

==== James Westby ====

On vacation

==== Loïc Minier ====

===== ARM =====

* Worked a while on fixing qemu-kvm armel build failures
* Worked on rebasing/fixing/completing misc qemu patches including
   linux-user uname emulation and various configure fixes

===== Misc =====

* Looked into misc vm-builder issues, notably why it depends on devscripts (calls rmadison for xen kernel name)
* Expenses
* Chaired Foundations meeting and helped with Release meeting
* Replaced netcat-traditional with netcat-openbsd in seeds to avoid getting two netcats with the virt-host task
* Fixed some logcheck issues I was hitting on two hosts and sent patches to Debian; bug triage
* Reviewed pbuilder --profile patches from contributor
* Refreshed grub2 support patch originally by cjwatson for vmbuilder; now segfauts in grub2
* Fixed a bunch of old and annoying bugs in vmbuilder; tested lucid vmbuilder and fixed a broken patch
* Poked small things in unattended-upgrades
* MIRs: kasumi (spent quite some time providing autofoo fixes and guidance), python-keyring, edbus, efreet, libvdpau,

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-center =====
* review/merge the matts-pathbar-integration branch from nzmm (great stuff)
* review/merge branch(es) from Gary (many thanks!)
* investigate non fixed_height mode slowness and how to hide/work-around the slowness in s-c
* research gtk treeview issues and submit upstream gnome #607447 (with patch & demo) - no feedback yet
* use new apt.utils from python-apt and remove internal copy
* review/merge code that uses gtk.Entry intead of sexy.Entry (#506811)
* add support for Supported tag

===== support-timeframe-information =====
* fixes after review from bigjools (many thanks)
* review result of the server side merge, do client side work
* add arch support
* add update--manager-support-status binary
* move most of the support status code into pyhton-apt

===== local-repository-support spec =====
* work on proxy part in lp:~mvo/+junk/squid-deb-proxy
* add wiki page SquidDebProxy
* add example config to our squid package
* mail debmarshal, mirrorkit people (for the other parts of the spec)

===== misc =====
* Work on boot-recovery spec and upload new busybox and sysvutils (#505887)
* fix mp3 codec install on frsh install and forward upstream (#510033)
* Debug/fix computer-janitor build bug  (plus #503727)
* language-selector: review updates by arne
* language-selector: Review/style-fixes for language-selector changes and push to (lp:~mvo/langauge-selector/language-selector-lucid) and add tests
* Apt: debug cdrom failure (auto-mount issue)
* debug upgrade issues with fagan

===== sponsoring =====
* Merge/review gnome-terminal

==== Scott James Remnant ====

On vacation

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* preparations for Ubuntu 8.04.4

===== Sponsorship =====
* klibc (bug #175324)

===== Packages =====
* further cryptsetup fixes: fix a bashism and avoid double-prompting for
the same disk if cryptdisks-enable starts while cryptdisks-udev is still
running
* plymouth: bugs 506717, 496782, 509579, 496765
* fix netcat priorities, so livefs builds work again
