{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* You - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

<pre>
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'surbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
</pre>

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27561|alpha-3 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

* Short week due to USA holiday
* f-m-robust-python-packaging
** versioned .so files patch
** email discussion upstream
** need to write PEP
* f-m-python-versions
** scripting py2.7 archive PPA in ~pythoneers
* misc
** python-distribute upstream patch testing
** installing maverick on macbookpro
** attended uefi presentation

==== Colin Watson ====

* Backported dpkg sync performance improvement (Bug:570805) to lucid-proposed.

* Picked up a few stray casper bugs, and uploaded USB update-initramfs shim fix (Bug:591207) to lucid-proposed.

* Switched to vga=788 in the installer, which is lots faster in kvm.

* GRUB 2:
** Switched /boot/grub/device.map to by-id device names.
** Added --debug-image= option to grub-install to save on some manual work when debugging.
** More documentation work.
** Merged persistent device names in install_devices back to Debian, fixing a cluster of RC bugs, and fixing several bugs in our prior implementation in the process.
** Caught up with some grub2 SRUs: German translation bug (Bug:580178), incorrect postinst install_devices logic (Bug:580408), and avoiding offering dangerous partition choices for grub-install (Bug:576724).

* open-iscsi build fix (Bug:600953).

* Assisted with Maverick Alpha 2 release.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Short week; vacation on Monday.
* Hacked together a wireless network configuration page using the NetworkManager dbus API.  The installer will eventually support ConnMan as well.
* Uploaded a new ubiquity and Wubi.
* Replied to press questions on the installer redesign.
* Created a 10.04 netbook USB disk for Cezzaine.
* Mail to several people on coordinating efforts around custom widgets and libraries.
* Created a GreyableBin container that uses client side windows to create a greyed-out effect.

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== misc =====
* App-install-data review/update, upload for alpha2
* App-install-data-commercial: review/merge update for brian
* Command-not-found data update
* Flashplugin-nonfree: upload new version that fixes upgrade failure
* Gdebi: port to python-apt 0.8
* Grub: recover from "unaligned pointer" bootup failure in maverick
* Langauge-selector: fix aptdaemon dialogs returning too early
* Langauge-selector: fix crash on startup in dbus backend
* Language-selector: help arne with deprecation warnings
* Review/merge arnes language-selector branch
* Synaptic: merge lp:~jibel/synaptic/bug.597874
* Upload new app-install-data-partner
* Upload new python-lazr.restfulclient that fixes #599332

===== software-center =====
* Apt-xapian-index: work on whats-new plugin
* Aptdaemon: debug/fix crash with STAT_FAILED/STAT_ERROR, upload new version (thanks to seb)
* Aptdaemon: prepare new version with download-vendor-keys support
* S-c-agent: debuan/fix odd realtive/absolute import schema validation bug
* S-c-agent: improve docs, port to python-lazr.restfulclient 0.9.18+
* Software-center-agent: add "categories" to the Application/IApplication (lp:~mvo/software-center-agent/categories-support
* agent: fixes from merge-review
* buy-something: add code to update DB from software-center-agent
* fix bug in carousel view, upload new version
* push plugin branch
* review  lp:~mmcg069/software-center/appdetailsview-gtk
* review/merge  lp:~mmcg069/software-center/catview-conform-w-spec
* start work on the client that calls the stub API
* update python-lazr.restful to latest upstream for s-c-agent
* work on broken cache handling (#430200) and dirty-dpkg-journal  1
* work on new-app persistance (lp:~mvo/software-center/whats-new

===== apt =====
* discussion about rollback, work with david on review
* work with #debian-apt on rollback solution
* Python-apt: add "dpkg_journal_dirty" property to detect another
 failure conditi on in the apt cache  31 min
* Python-apt: add test for debfile.py based on gdebi test deb package
* Python-apt: fix incorrect conflicts for provides
* Review/merge  lp:~kiwinote/python-apt/merge-gdebi-changes
* Review/merged  lp:~kiwinote/gdebi/use-python-apt

===== update-manager =====
* Update-manager: merge lp:~and471/update-manager/fix-bug-386196
* Update-manager: port progress classes to python-apt 0.8
* Update-manager: review upgrade tester results and move milestone for #535132
* Update-manager: upload new SRU to lucid-proposed
* Update-notifier: add hook dir for oneconf when cache changes
* Update-manager: upload new SRU to lucid-proposed
* Update-notifier: add hook dir for oneconf when cache changes
* Update-notifier: review https://code.edge.launchpad.net/~didrocks/update-notifier/async-scripts/
* Update-notifier: send example for update-notifier events to keybuk for refactor update notifier spec

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Surbhi Palande ====

** fixed some bugs in btrfs support for grub2. Submitted the patch on grub-devel@gnu.org. Waiting to see whether it can be passed as GPL3.
** worked on bug 598946 - of applying a patch for btrfs support to gparted. Submitted a proposed merge request for the same. Need to rework on this - got comments from cjwatson.
** started work on mdadm delta
