{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:packageselection-foundations-n-valid-hostname-configuration
* '''Created''': 2010-11-19
* '''Contributors''': ClintByrum, ColinWatson, MathieuTrudelLapierre, MarioLimonciello, ScottKitterman
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

We do not do a very good job of making sure that systems have a valid hostname.  Review the ways that the hostname gets set during install and on boot for desktop and server and for DHCP and static assignment, and have clear documentation on how this is supposed to work so we can identify all the current deficiencies and get them fixed.

See <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2010-October/031785.html|this ubuntu-devel thread]]</nowiki> for more detail.

=== Release Note ===

Various bugs in hostname selection have been fixed.

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

<pre>
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/8980

Code duplication netcfg/ubiquity

Since intrepid netcfg should actually put the domain in the right place if it's included in the hostname input

Process for getting hostname:
* from dhcp by default if exists
* from entry 
** if there is a domain part, it is stripped out and put in the right place
/etc/hosts gets:
127.0.0.1 localhost (unconditionally)
    if domain:
      IP hostname.domain hostname
    else:
      IP hostname
  else:
    if domain:
127.0.1.1 hostname.domain hostname
    else:
127.0.1.1 hostname

No "_" in hostnames.
 
Postfix Exit Code 75 Examples:
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bugs?field.searchtext=exit+status+75&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status:list=INVALID&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=
08:19 < SpamapS> example bad hostname: ubuntvqclts.hsd1.ct.comcast.net. from 
                 https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bug/606898
08:19 < udsbotu> Launchpad bug 606898 in postfix (Ubuntu) "package postfix 2.7.0-1 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess 
                 installed post-installation script returned error exit status 75" [Medium,Invalid]
08:19 < SpamapS> example bad hostname: ubuntvqclts.hsd1.ct.comcast.net. from 
                 https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bug/606898
08:19 < udsbotu> Launchpad bug 606898 in postfix (Ubuntu) "package postfix 2.7.0-1 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess 
                 installed post-installation script returned error exit status 75" [Medium,Invalid]
</pre>

----
CategorySpec
