{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt

=== Lightning round order ===

<pre>
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'csurbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
</pre>

=== Apologies ===

* BarryWarsaw
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27563|beta bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===
* ???

=== IRC log ===
<nowiki>[[attachment:#ubuntu-meeting.html]]</nowiki>

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

==== Colin Watson ====

==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Surbhi Palande ====
* worked on #601877 and 601874. The fix to both of them is the same really. Have uploaded a ppa and asked the user to see if the fix works for them.

* looked around for bugs in e2fsprogs.

* configuring qemu environment for testing.

* worked on btrfs-tools bug #601877 and #601874 - asked the user to test the fix and verified by eye balling the code, if the result that the user was getting was expected behavior. (also asked on #btrfs) Sent a merge request for the same.  Sent the patch upstream.

* worked on #505719 - turned out that resize2fs works as expected. But the documentation needed to be reworded. Did that and sent a merge request for the same. 

* mdadm - fixed a bug encountered while testing

* looked around for e2fsprogs bugs for working and btrfstools bugs

* worked on an e2fsprogs bug: 603966. Installed lucid in qemu with encrypted disk and tried to reproduce the bug. Went through the mountall code and e2fsprogs debugging. Waiting on new input from the bug reporter.

* worked on e2fsprogs bug: 567353. Waiting for the bug reporters input. 

* worked on cifs bug 276472. Set up cifs, created a fix, checked if the patch fixes the bug. Sent the patch upstream.

* analyzed btrfs code for taking snapshots. Identified that btrfs already has code for finding out what files have changed since a given snapshot id. Also there is code for deleting a snapshot. Notified mvo about the same.

* also wanted to understand why we choose to have ext2 by default on /boot when a disk is encrypted.

* looking at mdadm code

* worked on mountall bug 460246 to invoke fsck -t btrfs without any switches

* worked on mdadm bug 617725. Have a solution, that needs further testing.

* Holiday from 24th Aug to 27th Aug
