{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* MikeTerry
* MuharemHrnjadovic
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

* 8.04.3 LTS '''07/09'''
* Karmic
** Status and Roadmap 
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic
* Doko's topics
** handling of component mismatches: Currently no action is taken for build failures due to component mismatches (selfish examples: jinja2, llvm).
** handling of the new queue (selfish example: python3.1)
** handling of MIR's (selfish example: llvm).
* Sponsorship queue
* Good news
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Finished removing the old timezone map from ubiquity, and replaced gdm-signal with a D-Bus call, thereby making ubiquity's GTK frontend architecture-independent.
* Merged: choose-mirror, user-setup, refit, kbd, cdrom-detect, apt-setup, parted, partman-base, partman-partitioning, partman-ext3, scim-bridge, libdebian-installer
* Sponsorship:
** fakeroot #389591.
** bash-completion #370611 (nothing to do in Karmic, declined Jaunty SRU).
** ecj #347393.
* Feature work:
** foundations-karmic-server-installer-improvements:
** Wrote online help text code for cdebconf. Debian seems to like it, so I should get that committed towards the end of this week.
** archive-reorganisation:
** Worked on constructing initial package sets.
** foundations-karmic-grub2:
** Fixed grub-installer #393432 (LILO rather than GRUB 2 still used for /boot on LVM).
* Dropped ant's JDK recommendation to a suggests, at the server team's behest (#389470).
* Fixed gnu-efi build failure.
* Fixed memtest86+ to install properly in chroots (e.g. live CDs). Dealt with #384627 (20_memtest86+ uses deprecated update-grub_lib in Karmic) while I was there.
* Synced: twisted-lore, twisted-names, twisted-runner
* Updated tasksel to karmic, including recent UNR task changes.
* Figured out why d-i was completely broken (busybox printf's exit code was wrong), and fixed it.
* IS/platform review meeting.
* Fixed w3m #283975, #353900 (formatting problems with w3mman, affecting manpages.ubuntu.com).
* Fixed horrendous grub bug #185878 (GRUB installation fails if installing to certain non-ext* filesystems).
* Technical Board meeting.
==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week.  On vacation Thursday through Monday.
* Merged partman-efi.
* Reviewed usb-creator 0.2.0 for upload.  The KDE frontend is ready, but I'm keen to get the DeviceKit-disks backend done before we upload.
* Started a conversation with Andrew Sayers on him helping with Migration Assistant and incorporating his idea to install applications that serve as replacements for applications installed on other operating systems (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InstallProgramsFromMigrationAssistant).
* Started working on a unit test framework using twisted's trial and worked towards creating a fake DeviceKit-disks to test the respective usb-creator backend.
* Discussed a proposal from a community member to create a GRUB recovery option on the live CD.
* Finished another draft of the Migration Assistant DBus API (http://wiki.ubuntu.com/MigrationAssistant/Karmic/DBusService). Comments/suggestions welcome.
==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====
* Reached 10,000 source package branches on LP.
* Fixed the issue that was causing the most failures. Need to retry all of those failures and finish the import of main.
* Call with Martin Pool about the best way to start a discussion on parallel imports. Need to write up a wiki page with our requirements.
===== Daily Builds =====
* Belatedly finished drafting the spec.
===== Kerneloops =====
* Mailed the kernel team asking whether they would like OOPS reports as bugs. Mail is waiting in their moderation queue.
===== Distro tasks =====
* Only managed to sponsor one item this week.
==== Lars Wirzenius ====
* Back from vacation.
* Processing of e-mails, and stuff.
* Tested flegita, compared with gscan2pdf. Neither is good. Told Ken van Dine I'm OK with flegita replacing xsane as default.
* Planning of implementation of specs.
* Started prototyping Compter Janitor new UI.
==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== AppCenter =====
* Debugging aptdaemon hang in gio code  
* Fix gio hang n aptdaemon client    
* Work on apt-daemon packaging (lp:~aptdaemon-hackers/aptdaemon/ubuntu-karmic) 
* Add aptdaemon backend to g-a-i(lp:~mvo/gnome-app-install/aptdaemon) 
* Port add/remove to Gtkbuilder  
===== update-manager =====
* Work on the auto-upgrade-tester
* Work on main-all profile
* Analyze held-back on release-upgrade from gnome-bluetooth<>bluez-gnome and discuss with asac
* Work on the EC2 upgrade tester (with andreash) and fix issues in trunk, a bit of code cleanup too
* Port update-manager to gtkbuilder 
* Merge official-ec2 support branch from andreash into update-manager (many thanks!)
* Add warning when running on battery to update-manager (#377697)  
===== apt =====
* review/merge patches from lp:~donkult (quite a few!)
===== kernel-crashdumps =====
* Look into grub2 and crashdumps 
* Add crashdump= support to grub2 
* Upload new grub2 with crashkernel feature
* Forward patch to grub-devel
* Update linux-meta diff for grub2 support (kernel crashdump)
* Kernel-crashdump spec work
* Work on prototype apport-retrace for kernel crashdumps
===== command-not-found =====
* Re-generate command-not-found database                     
* Work on command-not-found, fix bash crash (#127399)
* Implement spelling suggestions to command-not-found 
* Analyze why alpha-2 command-not-found data was wrong, add scripts to ensure operations are more smooth 
===== misc =====
* Debug apt ddtp problem with dpm
* move data from rookery to new people.u.c
* Synaptic i18n updates
* App-install-data-ubuntu fixes (lxde description, nvidia-glx-180)  
* Add information around spec foundations-karmic-upgrade-support-in-landscape 
* Target features to milestones
* release meeting
* Review/merge/upload lp:~seb128/update-notifier/gtkbuilder  
* Update-notifier: add gconf key to hide reboot required messages
* Merged libgksu from debian (for the gtkbuilder fixes) 
===== sponsoring/merging =====
* Sponsor gawk via a sync request                                
* Sponsoring python-geoip
* Sponsoring tuxtype (via review/sync request)
* Merge rsync and forward changes upstream 
* Look at acpica-unix merge and request sync  
* Merge djvulibre, elinks, planner, rpm
==== Mike Terry ====
===== Ubiquity =====
* The oem-config merge continues apace.  I'm now testing code, rather than porting.
===== Rsyslog =====
* Sent mail to devel list about change
* Rebased on 4.2.0 which made the import freeze
===== Power cleanup =====
* Finalized details of who calls pm-powersave with upstream
* Tweaked bzr branch as a result
* Steve pushed this in, so we no longer have ac.d and battery.d directories!  Yay
==== Muharem Hrnjadovic ====

==== Scott James Remnant ====
* Booked Dublin tickets
* Installed SSD into Dell D620 received from Pete for SSD testing
* Meetings with Desktop Experience Team about Boot Experience
* Updated udev to 143, and then GIT head, more changes were required and Martin finished them off for me
* Working on Upstart 0.6.0, fixing initctl and telinit
* TB Mono Position statement draft
* Developer Application Board announcement draft
==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* release meeting
* Ubuntu 8.04.3 work
===== Specs =====
* follow up on multiarch spec with Debian
* follow up on Debian LTS coordination
===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties
** fix syncbugbot to work with current launchpad (python-launchpadbugs)
* epic battle with Spanish rail
