{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Present ===

* Alexander Sack
* Arne Gotje
* Bryce Harrington
* Chris Cheney
* Evan Dandrea
* Lars Wirzenius
* Luke Yelavich
* Matthias Klose
* Oliver Grawert
* Steve Langasek

Colin Watson was not present due to a family emergency.  Our best wishes are with him.

== Agenda ==

There were no agenda items presented, so no meeting was officially held, however a few things were discussed:

* Meeting Times / Location
* Finding More Platform Contributors / Java
* Travel Bags

== Meeting Times ==

It seems our new time (22:00) conflicts with the Server Team Meeting on #ubuntu-platform.  Perhaps it should be arranged for an hour earlier, or on a different channel.

== Finding More Platform Contributors ==

asac pointed out, that there's certainly enough platform work to embrace new contributors, so how to get them?

The subsequent discussion mostly revolved around Java / openjdk, and that corporate Java development practices aren't likely to generate usable patches for us.

== Travel Bags ==

liw asked for recommendations for good sized travel bags (a problem I too have yet to solve satisfactorally).  ogra suggested the little bags given out at the SF all hands, but these seem unavailable now.

== Action Items ==

* Everybody to have specifications finalized by June 5th, according to the Intrepid release schedule.

* Find a time/channel that does not conflict with other team meetings.
