{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* MikeTerry
* MuharemHrnjadovic
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Status Updates on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic|Karmic]]</nowiki>
** Alpha 6 Deliverables
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#AppCenter_1.0|Ubuntu Software Store]]</nowiki>
*** '''UI Freeze tomorrow'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Power_Management_Infrastructure_Cleanup|Power Management Infrastructure Cleanup]]</nowiki>
*** I think we've done all we can on this one
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Computer_Janitor_UI_Improvements|Computer Janitor UI Improvements]]</nowiki>
*** '''UI Freeze tomorrow'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic#Ubiquity_Slideshow|Ubiquity Slideshow]]</nowiki>
*** Thinking this is '''done'''
** Alpha 6 ''Foundationy'' Bugs
** Bug:353534: dapper->hardy->intrepid upgrade path leaves user with unmaintained kernel
** Bug:386789: 'grub2' does not carry over correct 'timeout' time from 'grub'
** Bug:422101: initramfs-tools package seems to fail postinstall on armel
** Bug:407428: worker signal mask inherited by children
* Sponsorship queue
* Good news
* AOB

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* GRUB 2:
** Some work on the rather out-of-date manual.
** Updated and improved Vladimir Serbinenko's savedefault patch (uploaded to Ubuntu, will be integrated upstream after 1.97).
** Fixed grub2 #423412 (core.img with mdraid & lvm too big to embed).
** Disabled extraneous boot messages.
** Helped to track down wubi #423381 (syntax error with grub2).
** Fixed memtest86+ #424506 (memtest grub entry does not run on 32-bit).
** Fixed partman-partitioning/partman-auto #417724 (create BIOS Boot Partition on GPT). Added corresponding ubiquity support.
** Merged 1.97~beta2 from Debian.
** Started work on adding multiple input terminal support (i.e. wait for a keypress to arrive on either serial console or keyboard, then use that terminal).
** Started work on long command line support.

* Eucalyptus:
** Fixed eucalyptus #423424 (Generated node preseed file has commented out answers).
** Implemented euca_conf --discover-nodes (lp:~cjwatson/eucalyptus/discover-nodes).

* Installer:
** Committed a variant of Evan's patch for partman-partitioning #34974 ("Too large size" message a little terse) to Debian.

* Sponsorship:
** sgt-puzzles #417682 (universe).

* Fixed wicd #366119 (use pm-utils when suspending/hibernating).

* Improved os-prober to use a private mount namespace and to use blkid output rather than trying all filesystems in turn.

* Fixed busybox #268306 ("more" useless, scrolls by without stopping).

* Fixed busybox #424731 (du is missing from initrd).

* Fixed casper #406188 (sed: invalid option -- '1').

* Merged several contributed casper patches (#424464, #424742, #425159).

* Synced: os-prober

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week, vacation on September 4th.
* Started looking into fixing 315644 for OEMs.
* Investigated 408292, which now looks like a GNOME issue.  Will follow up with the desktop team.
* Filed an RT for access to cranberry in support of LP 419194 (install failure survey) and started looking into django for the supporting code.
* Lots of fixes to usb-creator.  Added back partition table block devices in the UI.  Fixed ISO image support in the devicekit backend. Brought back code to write syslinux to the MBR that was lost in the merge of the devicekit branch.
* Worked on PolicyKit support for usb-creator.  I think I'm going to keep this in a separate branch and merge after 9.10, to allow adequate testing.
* Merged and further tested Michael Terry's ubiquity plugins branch.
* Ubiquity bug triage and fixing.

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====

** Merge some more fixes from Muharem. Thanks.
** Fixed some failures to import.

===== Daily builds =====

** Some discussion on the mailing list.
** Tried to start a discussion about taking part of the version number from the tree, but no input yet.

===== Kerneloops =====

** Nothing this week.

===== Distro Tasks =====

** Archive admin duties
** Sponsoring.
** A bunch of fixes for issues, some cleaning up after myself.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====
* Gave a UDW session Getting Things Done.
* Bug fixing of Computer Janitor, just in time for the UI freeze.
* Filed and debugged a bit on #426159 (user can't log in via gdm, since compiz crashes X; this happens too fast for me to realize that it's an X crash).

==== Matthias Klose ====
* binutils update to the 2.20 release branch
* gcc-4.4 updates, finally fixing ARM issues PR40133 and PR40134.
* eglibc merge update
* openjdk-6 update to the IcedTea6 1.6 release, llvm update.
* python2.6 and python3.1 updates, python-setuptools bug fix for two issues building extensions, python-profiler update
* hopefully final uploads and sync request for 26 splitted zope3 packages
* OOo patch to work around build failure with GCC-4.3 (building icu with -Os).
* Tried to get gnat (Ada) working for ARM; bootstrap compiler is now available. Suspended for karmic, because the current approach is based on sjlj exception model instead of zcx.
* bug triage on toolchain and python packages 

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-store =====
* Work on the app-center webkit branch
* fix alignment
* fix problem with i18n  
* port the appdetailsview fully to webkit
* Make the wkwidget class more flexible/readable when it comes to the substitution of vars in the html data 
* App-center: merge software-store webkit branch, fix setup.py 
* More layout fixes in app-center   
* Add menu shortcuts to the software-store app   
* fix installed overlay icon
* App-center work (merge rugby branch, fix spinning animation) 
* Fix crash in sofware-store search           
* work: workaround missing xpm renderr in webkit 
* fix loading of custom icons in the appdetailsview
* scale default icon size
* add dbus controller to software-store
* use ellipsize_midle
* cleanup appview widget (proper signal support), 
* update update-software-store to support genericname and pkg.summary as fallbacks 
* work on implementing the appdetails view (as speced ~last week) and running into issues with the TreeView that seem to require a custom cell renderer 
* work on custom-cell renderer  for arrow button
* add custom cell renderer for overlay icon 
* add stub help to software-store 
* Review/merge software-store changes from rugby471   
* add GtkbuilderWidget, add InstalledPane composited widget 
* add "view-changed" signal to ViewSwitcher class   
* port software store to multi-view UI (the spec was unclear about this before and it required quite a few code changes)
* add availablepane and and installedpane
* merge changes into trunk/ 
* make supported-only, all toggle items in the menu work with multi-view
* make menu item search work with multiview

===== update-manager =====
* Merge update-manager POTFILE.in fix (#420209)
* Fix duplicated id in u-m (#422665)  
* Fix crash when lsmod is not installed 
* New updat-emanager upload     
* Debug hang in update-manager, apply (possible) fix   
* Debug/fix loop in update-manager on package failure (text frontend) 
* Debugging hang in the release-upgrader on failure with the gtk frontend (took a while until it got found)
* Make the python-apt code more robust about incorrect results from waitChild() 
* Fix hang in update-manager (nasty bug that took ages to find) and python-apt 
* Fix hang in the KDE release upgrade, upload new version  
* Update-manager: look at perl upgrade problem (#387112)   

===== compiz =====
* Update compiz, plugins-main, plugins-extra from current git to PPA
* Merge compiz, plugins-main sponsoring request (#414170) and upload to PPA 

===== misc =====
* Debug upgrade problem with asac (turns out to be #423127 - bug in paprefs) 
* Work on apturl bug (#422825)  
* Debug command-not-found failure (#420161) - turns out to be new behaviour in bash  
* Fix ftbfs in xapian-core (#422493)   
* Upload apturl with workaround for #422825     
* Review/commit language-selector change from arne (with comments)  
* Update app-install-data for alpha5   
* Add bzr.desktop metapkg to app-install-data
* Fix incorrect battery-stats desktop file   
* Upload new python-apt                                           
* Upload new gdebi                                                
* Fix segfault in synaptic, merge fixes from the synaptic--main branch, upload new version  
* Debug/fix crash in g-a-i when using a specific activation style  
* Uploaded zlib with fix for #402178) 
* Build list of differences between app-store spec <-> implementation for relelase meeting
* Synaptic i18n work (sv translation mail)   
* remove duplicated entries from the app-install-data 
* Look at build failure caused by zlib (in vips), create proposed patch, ask for review by cjwatson and redo it properly (many thanks)
* Forward zlib patch to upstream    

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor tomboy   
* Review/sponsor aptitude man-page fix   

==== Mike Terry ====
===== MIR =====
* Did my first MIR!  A baby one for dh-di (#425615).

===== Rsyslog =====
* Am still stymied by Kees's rsyslog hang bug.

===== Ubiquity =====
* Plugin branch got merged thanks to Evan's championing.
==== Muharem Hrnjadovic ====

==== Scott James Remnant ====
===== sysvinit =====

* Merged against Debian, a lot of our changes got merged in so the diff is increasingly smaller (yay)

* Disabled insserv migration since that doesn't actually work with Ubuntu right now (a few problems block it), and the Debian package is far too picky and debconf-happy (debconf notice if you so much as have removed-but-not-purged packages on your system).

   insserv dep is still there, you just need to do:

     USEINSSERV=y dpkg-reconfigure sysv-rc

   to attempt the migration

* Uploaded to _my_ PPA

===== Boot Performance =====

* Still working through bugs in mountall; have tested arbitrarily complex combinations of filesystems and now they all work.

* Various minor tweaks to dh_installinit: Upstart's "start", "stop" and "restart" don't behave quite like init scripts when it comes to exit codes; "start" considers it an error if the job is already running while "stop" and "restart" consider it an error if the job is not running.

* Minor tweaks to startup jobs to actually include "on startup", so restarting udev doesn't re-run udevtrigger and restarting rsyslog
   doesn't overwrite /var/log/dmesg

* Adjusted sreadahead to start on startup, rather than on sysvinit compat startup

* Stripped most of the boot-related initscripts from that package (based off the merged version)

* Deferred rcS until after the Upstart native boot is complete

* initramfs-tools modified to allow hooks and scripts to be optional based on a variable set in initramfs.conf or conf.d/*

* Made framebuffer/kernelextras optional on USPLASH=y

* Made usplash itself optional on USPLASH=y

* Uploaded Upstart job for gdm to staging PPA
==== Steve Langasek ====
