{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

** Improved Visualisation (more dynamic)?
** User Sessions (see bug Bug:776392)
*** Enable them
*** Add ability to distinguish user jobs from system jobs in "initctl list" output
      (requires new D-Bus method).
*** Add ability to specify supplementary group to run job as?
** new stanzas
*** mkdir
*** chown
*** chgrp
*** setuid and setgid / user and group
      (see https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/upstart-devel/2011-June/001591.html)
** Add cgroup support
    (and add new cgroup stanza)
** create a new event when /dev/console writeable
** Logging of job output
** ring buffer / klog patch to log *all* upstart events (from "startup"!)
** globbing of events:
    {{{
      start on foo*
    }}}
** inotify bridge
    (Good progress has already been made on this).
** Introduce clone(2) for namespace magic
** Proper state-passing for re-exec
** Enable Upstart in initramfs
** Interactive boot
    (Good progress has already been made on this)
** Abstract well-known Jobs
    Ideally, all abstract jobs would be "well-known" to avoid any distros hard-coding job conditions on 
    particular display managers for example.
** Event aliases
    Same logic as for "Abstract well-known Jobs".
** Full job file audit (.conf *and* SysV jobs!)
** proc connector (to avoid ptrace issues)
** Understand problems tracing PIDS for Java apps.
** Testing
*** Improved system testing framework
*** Ensure all possible transitions between runlevels are fully tested.
** Finish the Upstart Cookbook (and get it translated)
** Killing
** Ability to specify alternate signals to kill a job
** Ability to send arbitrary signals to jobs?
     {{{
     initctl kill -USR1 myjob
     }}}
** Complete transition to Upstart-only shutdown and decouple Upstart jobs from SystemV (`/etc/init.d/sendsigs`)
    (See Bug:750113).
** Scotts temporal events.
** Upstart still needs to provide deeper and easier control of services and status on the server to convince and seduce users used to 'classic' environment. Suggestions are: central services app (ncurses), remove things like rcconf, stickiness of status of services, easy way to control what will run or not on a server as services
** Since Natty, upstart has now .override files to control services (see Natty release notes : http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/natty/alpha3#Override%20Files, we need now either a ncurse base interface or a 'chkconfig' type command to make service control easier than the method indicated in the release notes
