{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


==== Colin Watson ====
* GRUB:
** Finally nailed #430141 (Vista is not showing up in grub2); turned
    out to be a ubiquity bug.
** Show the boot menu if the previous boot (into Ubuntu) failed.
** Don't emit memtest86+ menu items if /boot is on a loop-mounted
    device, e.g. Wubi (#435153).

* Installer:
** Fixed base-installer #413135 again (Installer needs way to install
    PAE kernel on i386 9.10 DVD).
** Turned usplash on for the live CD (#434980).
** Stop oem-config running all the time with new Upstart jobs
    (#432180).
** Fix a messy file-copy-blacklisting bug that broke boot loader OS
    detection in ubiquity in some very strange ways (#436613).
** Reorganise clock handling, in a further attempt to fix the class of
    wrong-filesystem-timestamp bugs exemplified by #431786.
** Fixed shell provision on live CD VTs (#434769).
** Fixed tasksel regression #438546 (task list includes blank names).
** Merged: partman-partitioning, base-installer (#435376)

* Eucalyptus:
** tasksel update for new UEC task.
** Lots of fixes to installer integration (better error handling,
    user-setup/encrypt-home carry-over, euca_conf --discover-nodes
    fixes, IPv6 problems with euca_find_cluster (#436200)).
** Tweaks to euca_conf operation to make initial installation
    experience smoother.
** Boot sequence adjustments.

* Converted usplash to Upstart (#434361). Not entirely without
   incident, with a follow-up ubiquity bug, but on the whole this seems
   to have worked out rather well. Took nearly a full day of frequent
   reboots to figure it out though ...

* Got Wubi working at long last (#435153), although perhaps only for
   me; Dave Morley is still having trouble.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week.  Plumbers from the 23rd through the 25th.  Swap day on
Monday to make up for United travel madness on Sunday.
* Sponsored an upload of ubiquity-slideshow-ubuntu for Dylan.
* Lots of bug triage (this week and last, forgot to mention it in my
previous report).
* CD testing.

===== ubiquity =====
* Released two new versions of ubiquity.
* Fixed a minor bug: Add missing definition of self.controller for
the noninteractive page in the language plugin.

===== usb-creator =====
* Released a new version.
* Fixed two small bugs:
** Modify adtext.cfg as well when adding options to the syslinux
configuration (LP: #317059).
** The persistence value is no longer passed around as a string.
Fix a check that assumed it was.  This was causing the persistence
option to always be written (LP: #436207).

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====

** Fixed some more import failures.
** Asked to stop importing new branches by IS until they get
    more disk space on codehosting. They estimate around 7
    days until this is done.
** Pinged the LP team about the release process around DD.

===== Daily Builds =====

** Nothing this week.

===== Distro tasks =====

** Archive admin duty.
** Sponsoring from Bazaar branches.
** ISO testing.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Terry ====

* Attended Linux plumbers
* Canonical OEM team work

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== software-store^Wcenter =====
* lots of bug triage (both s-c and aptdaemon)
* review/merge changes by rugby471
* fixing xapian query
* fix update-software-store with invalid locales
* look at matts-pathbar-integration branch
* fix untrusted package handling (#435313)
* border size fixes 
* fix various crashes
* fix drag-n-drop handling
* fix alignments 
* fix more padding issues (as requested by mpt)
* merge fixes from lool 
* renamed to software-center
* fix gconf crash 
* review/merge help-fixes branch
* Aptdaemon: debug/fix(?) crash in remove_from_connection (LP:
## 422585) 
* debug/fix empty progress window when the daemon exited in 
   between (#437685) 
* Aptdaemon: add "allow-unauthenticated" feature and push to
   lp:~mvo/aptdaemon/allow-unauthenticated 
* Aptdaemon: bigger default gtk progress dialog, make it resizable  
* Aptdaemon: avoid possible race with apt-get (#437709)
* Aptdaemon: prepare/uplaod new version (with ~6 fixes)
* Aptdaemon: debug/fix translation problem (#438077)     

===== gdebi =====
* bugtriage/fixing #428978
* build with split=True (debian asked about this)
* upload new version 

===== apt/python-apt =====
* merge i18n fixes  
* Merge/review apt changes from donkult
* work on the karmic branch (lp:~ubuntu-core-dev/apt/karmic)
* cherry picking fixes from debian-sid and the mvo branch
* merge CAPS fix
* better error reporting for invalid ar headers
* test-build/upgrade with 0.7.23.1ubuntu1 from jaunty -> karmic
   (no issues)
* merge apt with debian/sid version and upload to karmic 
   (ABI break) - sorry for the lateness of this merge 
* also upload all rdepends with proper versionized dependencies 
   (~30 packages)
* debug failure in immediate configure calculation (#548858)

===== beta =====
* some upgrade testing (but not as much as I would have liked too,
   too much to do
* updated
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GnomeAppInstallDesktopDatabaseUpdate to 
   reflect current status 
* run app-install-data extraction  (took much longer than expected
   and did not finish in time to be included in the beta iso) so the
   data on the CD is slightly outdated

===== update-manager =====
* bug triage
* fixing (i18n issues, ui issues)
* adding quirks for kbluetooth 
* debug problem with utf8 chars in gtkbuilder and 
   report gnome upstream (gnome #596205)
* Debug/fix two crashes in update-manager    
* fix hang in auto-upgrade-tester, better error reporting on 
   failure
* debug server upgrade failure (syslogd/rsyslog releated)
* fix ubuntu-minimal remove in server upgrade by adding a implicit
   keepInstalled rule for all baseMetaPackages (ubuntu-minimal,
   ubuntu-standard) 
* create patch against lp:~mvo/update-manager/hardy-oem for the OEM
   team that implements stepped upgrades (multiple download/install
   runs for systems with small disks)

===== misc =====
* Wiki MOTU feedback for amaranth  
* Work on lp-archive-crawler to speed up changelog (and later more)
   data generation - will have to wait for lucid, but proof of conecpt
   looks very promising (lp:~mvo/+junk/lp-archive-crawler)
* fix goldendict install error and upload new versoin
* Travel planing UDS
* Vte update
* Debug/fix gdebi failure with vte (gnome bug #587894) and upload new
   vte (ping vte upstream about this failure because I provided
   test-case + patch, it got merged now)
* weekly software-center phonecall with mpt
* phonecall with robbie

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor compiz upload

==== Scott Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* alpha6 released

===== Packages =====
* Fix cryptsetup to use usplash again as intended, and fix
initramfs-tools
   to properly invoke the needed scripts. Bug #433773.
* Fix dbus to not set rpath unnecessarily. Bug #432718.

===== Sponsorship =====
* rsyslog, sysklogd (bug #401056)

===== Misc =====
* sprinting with kernel team at LinuxCon
* working with Scott on boot boogz
