{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* MatthiasKlose - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

<pre>
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'surbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
</pre>

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27560|alpha-2 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

===== foundations-m-python-versions =====

* worked on py27stack ppa, will eventually move this to ~pythoneers
* consulted w/doko & mailing lists; built py2.7 from debian experimental; fixing bugs
* refactored python-defaults rules/control
* built python-defaults to make 2.7 supported (but not default, for now)

===== foundations-m-python-continuous-integration =====

* unittest2 testing, bug reporting, and upstream communication
* stdeb testing, bug reporting, and upstream communication
* looked at python-mkdebian (probably not going to work)

==== Colin Watson ====

* Spent the majority of the week at the Linaro infrastructure sprint (just advising, really).  I polished up xdeb (formerly chromiumos-build) a fair bit in the process of preparing to demonstrate it, including improving its startup time by a factor of 20 or so.

* GRUB 2:
** Fixed savedefault.
** Improved interactive completion of 'set'.
** Fixed noise from grub-install if the kernel doesn't have device-mapper support.
** More work on the info manual, and improved man page generation.

* foundations-m-uefi-support:
** Added i386/efi and amd64/efi subarchitectures.
** Switched partman to use GPT by default on the new subarchitectures.
** Went back to using fat16 for the EFI System Partition on EFI implementations other than Intel Macs, not fat32, which has an inconvenient minimum size of 256MB.
** Spent a couple of days working on fixing EFI GOP (new graphics protocol in UEFI) support so that console output is visible in my EFI emulator.  Unfortunately it turned out that this duplicated effort already in the 'efigfx' branch upstream :-(, so I spent the end of the week cleaning that up for merging to trunk.

* installation-guide preseeding fix for lucid (#591199).

* debian-installer build fixes.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Vacation all week.
==== Matthias Klose ====

* Linaro infrastructure sprint (well, the infrastructure guys did complain it was too much toolchain work).
* Merge of CS gcc-4.4 branch for Linaro.
* Review Debian/Ubuntu GCC patches for integration in Linaro.
* Look at using the CS gcc-4.4 branch on i386 and amd64 for maverick.

==== Michael Vogt ====
* apt: resurrect ValidUntil patch, merging debian/ubuntu branches, hopefully the future is a simple sync, improve mirror method
* add "edit-patch apply" feature (with bobbo)
* Python-apt: fix datetime calulcation, add tests, upload new version 
* sponsoring some xorg packages
* software-center: merge a bunch of branches, work on buy-something and billing confirmation, work on LP integration and discovering private PPAs, improve apt history parser
* update-manager: work on python-apt 0.8 api transition, make reboot required a inline dialog

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Surbhi Palande ====
* Working on btrfs integration in grub-2.
* spent time in debugging the disk geometry that grub uses and making mkfs put the btrfs superblock in accordance with this geometry for a file system image created using dd.
* debugged a few bugs in the btrfs code integrated in grub2. Got the following working with grub-fstest: ls, ls -lh, crc, hex, cp
* created an account on gitorious and uploaded the grub-btrfs code there. Have also created an account on savannah.org. Need to make a bzr branch out of this
* Sent an email to Alex Du to enquire about the btrfs.h licensing in syslinux
