{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* LarsWirzenius
* MichaelVogt
* MikeTerry
* MuharemHrnjadovic
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===
* JamesWestby - Attending the <nowiki>[[http://opensourcebridge.org/|Open Source Bridge conference]]</nowiki>
* MatthiasKlose - on Canonical OEM Team rotational assignment

=== Agenda ===

* DMRaid update from mterry
* Karmic
** Status and Roadmap (*complete*, but NOT final)
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic
** foundations-karmic-i586-support NEEDS an assignee
** Need to Milestone Features
** Ex: https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/karmic-alpha-3
** Platform Team Sprint Update
* 8.04.3 LTS Update
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-8.04.3
* Sponsorship queue
* Good news
* AOB
** <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/BootPerformance/DebianUbuntuSprint|Debian-Ubuntu Boot Performance Sprint]]</nowiki> next week

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* liw to enter the storm of dmraid and talk to TheMuso
* robbiew to add http://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-karmic-usb-creator-for-windows to Karmic Roadmap
* Keybuk to draft KMS on the Console spec....based on mysterious irc discussion

=== Activity reports ===
==== Colin Watson ====
* Sponsorship:
** libwibble #385317 (bounced).
** mutt #384499.
** ntfs-3g #349569 (semi-bounced).
** libunique #383718.
** mdbtools #383917.
** partman-ext2r0 #384796 (sync, universe).
** parrot #219276 (universe, I'm the Debian sponsor too).
** qcomicbook #384808 (sync, universe).
** viking #384380 (sync, universe).
** mpi-defaults #383665 (universe).
** netcfg (merge from Muharem).
** silo-installer (merge from Muharem).
** rootskel (merge from Muharem).
** rootskel-gtk (merge from Muharem).
** dpkg #332068 (rejected for sponsorship, Debian bug already filed and
    it's better there anyway since it involves translatable strings).
** console-tools #49031 (universe).
* Fixed oem-config #163518 (.desktop files say OnlyShowIn=GNOME, should be NotShowIn=KDE;) - on the sponsorship list although only due to a different task on the same bug.
* Finished introducing variable-width menu columns to gfxboot-theme-ubuntu, allowing me to fix #311699.
* Fixed gfxboot-theme-ubuntu #40144 (Norwegian languages sorted weirdly).
* Drafted specs: foundations-karmic-rsyslogd, foundations-karmic-grub2
* Reviewed/approved specs: foundations-karmic-usb-creator-for-windows, rsync-based-deb-downloads, foundations-karmic-better-debian-import, foundations-karmic-swapfile
* IS/platform review meeting.
* Fixed casper #386010 (unionfs-fuse killed too early on live CD shutdown).
* Hoovered up most of a casper patch series to fix snapshot resyncing, and commented on the rest (#384059, #384061, #384066, #384068, #384076).
* Fixed grub-installer #385995 (sometimes tries to edit menu.lst even with GRUB 2).
* Merged: anna, base-installer, cdrom-checker, clock-setup, debian-installer-utils, finish-install, grub-installer, installation-report, lilo-installer, lowmem, main-menu, net-retriever, network-console, partman-auto, partman-auto-crypto, partman-auto-lvm, partman-basicfilesystems, partman-crypto, partman-ext3, partman-lvm, partman-partitioning, partman-target, preseed, tzsetup, yaboot-installer
* Synced: cdebconf, mountmedia, partconf, partman-jfs, partman-md, partman-reiserfs, partman-xfs
* Honour casper's live_media_path configuration in ubiquity.
* Added cdimage/livecd-rootfs support for variable casper initramfs compression methods, in preparation for a kernel version that will support LZMA initramfs decompression across the board.
* Proposed patch for util-linux #383697 (mount.preinst uses lsb-release while unconfigured).
* TB meeting (chaired).

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Ubiquity bug triage.
* Helped rgreening get the KDE frontend merged into usb-creator.
* Helped cr3 with ubiquity automation questions.
* Specification writing.  All specs approved, awaiting for responses from others, or awaiting approval, with the exception of encrypted swap.
* Started work on a UDS writeup for Larry Poon.
* More work on migration-assistant base code.

==== James Westby ====

==== Lars Wirzenius ====
* In preparation of making a video to allow comparison between gscan2pdf and flegita, tested Istanbul and recordmydesktop. The latter actually works.
* Participated and monitored machine-readable debian/copyright discussions in Debian.
* Wrote my important specs.
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/rsync-based-deb-downloads
  (approved)
** https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/computer-janitor-karmic-ui-improvements
* Verified that python-fstab is covered by the decision to not require contributor agreements that was done for Computer Janitor.
* Upgraded main desktop to karmic. Broke gnome-display-properties and USB auto-mounting, so far.
* Started travel arrangements for Debconf and karmic sprint.
* Filed a sync request for speedcrunch.

==== Matthias Klose ====
* Travel to Lexington (Mon)
* Work on an OEM project
** Installations 
** start working on bug reports
** look at apport backport for jaunty based projects.
* Various talks with OEM people about procedures/processes,  while learning 
* Some simple toolchain updates

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-properties =====
* add copy-n-paste for pub-key adding
* drag-n-drop for pub-key adding
* bugfixes

===== packaging tools =====
* Add transition code to update-manager for broadcom users
* Unattended-upgrade maintainace/merges  
* Add search progress and UI updates to synaptic (#24188) and upload new version
* Add ionice support to apt

===== AppCenter =====
* design call with mpt
* add prototype support for keyword search for gnome-app-install
* make g-a-i start faster
* make desktop data reading and cache opening threaded

===== misc =====
* spec work
* Smoke testing the desktop CD for alpha-2 
* merge/test/upload apt
* Add code to python-apt to create required dirs on the fly if run with "apt.Cache(rootdir=foo")" 
* Review gconf patch for seb128
* Write debian-version compare script (lp:~mvo/+junk/compare-to-debian)
* Review language-selector diff (from lool) 
* Write some simple profiling code for the apt install run (for the pre-unpack spec)

===== sponsoring/merges =====
* Review/sposnor imagemagick, popcon
* Merge/upload newlib, bzip2
* Review/merge/sponsor app-install-data-partner for jaunty  
* Review/merge/sponsor app-install-data-commercial intrepid upload 
* Review/merge patch from robert for compiz 

==== Mike Terry ====
===== Merges =====
* Merge freevo (385645)
* Merge galan (385662)
* Merge hdparm (311451)
* Merge libxml2 (386390)
* Merge xkeyboard-config (386445)
* Merge hunspell (387366)
* Sync gnome-backgrounds (385666)

===== GConf Error =====
* Fixed a gconf error when logging in (383461) that arose because we referenced a gconf source location, but didn't make sure that it existed

===== Power Management =====
* Continued working on removing ac.d and battery.d (385949)
* Still need to get some feedback from upstream devicekit folks.  Looks like pm-powersave isn't being called by devicekit-power and they aren't planning to.
* May need to call pm-powersave another way (maybe call it if anything but kde4 is running)
* Started looking at keypress events we can drop

===== rsyslog =====
* Started working on replacing sysklogd with rsyslog
* An initial version of the upgrade path is working (copy syslog.conf over).  Need to make this use ucf
* Worked on derooting it.  Started work on a -U flag to drop privileges, but apparently upstream v4 has similar support built-in as a config flag.  mbiebl says v4 likely to hit in Karmic timeframe
* The above privilege-dropping doesn't help with klog, which needs root access.  Implemented a simple config value to look at a different path and running a privileged dd instance that copies it over (as we do for sysklogd) to that path

==== Muharem Hrnjadovic ====
===== Administravia =====
** AllHands feed-back
** performance review preparation/call with Julian E.
** UDS survey

===== Package merges =====
** fbreader_0.10.7dfsg-2ubuntu1
** ibus_1.1.0.20090531
** solr_1.2.0+ds2-5ubuntu1
** xom_1.2.1-1
** netcfg_1.49
** findutils_4.4.2-1ubuntu1
** rootskel_1.78
** rootskel-gtk-1.16
** lp:~ubuntu-core-dev/pkgsel/ubuntu
** silo-installer (1.16)
** perl - 5.10.0-23ubuntu1
** popularity-contest
** zsh_4.3.10-2ubuntu1
** python-crypto_2.0.1+dfsg1-4
** smartmontools_5.38-3ubuntu1

 ==== Sync requests ====
** requestsync libsepol karmic
** requestsync newt karmic
** requestsync newt pyopenssl
** requestsync ifplugd karmic

===== Launchpad =====
** finished testing LP API for package sets

==== Scott James Remnant ====
* Holiday on Friday
* Finally finished the Upstart D-Bus work, took even longer than I thought it might in the end.
* Updated Upstart's Contributing Code guide
* Fixed some D-Bus bugs in the process.
* Finished up my patch to notify setsid() over the proc connector, sent to lkml along with the 2.6.31 firehose
* Chatted with other folks about what to talk about at Plumbers this year, submitted Upstart 1.0 talk and possibly doing a shared talk with Kyle@Fedora about living in Arjan's shadow
* Put our C bootchart code into bzr for Michael Meeks@Novell
* More nagging Ted Tso about libuuid
* More VFS union-mount testing

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* alpha-2 released
* release meeting
* continuing the 8.04.3 round-up

===== Sponsorship =====
* aptitude (bug #139661)
* perl merge
* audacious merge

===== Specs =====
* foundations-karmic-power-management drafted

===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties
* NBS cleanups
