{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* ColinWatson - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* LoïcMinier
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek

=== Lightning round order ===

<pre>
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'james_w',
    'lool',
    'mvo',
    'slangasek',
    'tremolux',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
</pre>

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21446|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

* computer janitor dbus refactoring; ready for review
* python-argparse MIR and 1.1 update
* ratings and reviews server for software center
* update-manager bug 537250
* review of doko's pycompile patch for 2.7 and 3.2
* pep 3147 work - first simple support for __pycache__ working! (lp:~barry/python/pep3147)
* prep for python 2.6.5 final (due out on friday)

==== Colin Watson ====

* Sponsorship:
** vim #509900.
** hostname #523588.
** emacs23 #444094.

* Migrated to parted 2.2, in both Debian experimental and Lucid.  (Awaiting Debian release team approval before putting it into Debian unstable; looks like it could take a while.)  Based on this, arranged for partman to use optimal alignment constraints when creating new partitions or maximising an extended partition (#530071).

* Fixed grub-installer partition offset handling for GRUB Legacy.

* Tried a hardy->lucid upgrade, and fixed a couple of bugs that showed up, including a messy libc6/findutils/dpkg dependency loop which I avoided in findutils.

* Upgraded to grub2 1.98.

* Fixed klibc (#534281) and libtommath (#534293) build failures.

* dpkg performance/reliability/security backports (#442114, #512096, #532445).  (The fsync change turned out to regress performance; discussing upstream.)

* Various ubiquity bug-fixes (#531864, #535630, some small unfiled ones).

* Ported console-setup to udev/upstart (#524439).  This included extending loadkeys to try to find a non-raw-mode console by itself.

* Updated installation-guide for Lucid (#501572, #415469, #496554).

* Fixed an infinite loop in blkid (#528073).

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Fixed a bug in usb-creator that surfaced with the move to parted2.1.
* Brought back the resize progress dialog in ubiquity that went away when we hid all progress dialogs on the automatic partitioning page.
* Made the strings for the keyboard query widget translatable.
* Fixed the focus grab on the next button on ubiquity startup.
* Hunted down bug 534473 (apt-setup selecting the wrong CD mountpoint), thanks to sabdfl lending me his usb disk.
* Looked into a bug for bigjools that turned out to be 528667.
* Michael Forrest is working on a simplified version of usb-creator for Mac, but separate from the usb-creator codebase.  Helped him with that a bit.
* Created a new LabelledEntry subclass of GtkEntry to provide hints on the user setup page.  Freeze exception request filed as bug 537986.
* Working with Michael, Ken, and Otto to get the time zone map updated and fixed around India.
* Imported translations from gnome-panel to let us strip the seconds from the time zone map time.  Freeze exception request filed as bug 538156.
* Created a password strength meter for the user setup page.  Freeze exception request filed as bug 537995.
* Fixed the bug whereby we weren't setting the language for the live environment when exiting ubiquity.
* Fixed some small bugs in ubiquity (thanks pycheck).
* Worked on moving the partition bars on the automatic partitioning page to sit directly under the option they reflect.  Still a work in progress.

==== Gary Lasker ====

* Was pulled in for OEM tasks for much of the week:
** Time allocation:  80% OEM, 20% platform
* Software Center
** Bug work, triage, fixes
** Cleaned up some fixme's in partner channel code
** Weekly call with mvo and mpt

==== James Westby ====

===== Distributed Development =====

* Quiet on the bugfixing front, there seem to be few problems that people are hitting currently.
* Got the latest code in to lucid (thanks Jelmer).
* Have a couple of branches to merge.

===== Other =====

* A chunk of sponsoring.
* Launchpad hacking to fix a few important issues for us.
* Spoke with Jos about opportunities on the server.
* Archive admin duty.

==== Loïc Minier ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

* two new lucid test installations
* llvm, clang, llvm-gcc-4.2 updates from the 2.7 branch
* again, some toolchain updates, too many test builds
* openjdk update to the icedtea6 trunk; will become the 1.8 release; volunteered as 1.8 release manager.
* python bug triage
* python bug fixes and updates in preparation for the coming subminor release 2.6.5 and 3.1.2.

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== software-center =====
* work on ec2 rnr instance (setup, debug failures)
* upload reviews branch into software-center PPA and make it work against reviews ec2 instance
* add gnome-app-install transitional package
* work on review-stats branch (lp:~mvo/rnr-server/reviews-stats)
* Prepare ratings&reviews call
* upload new version with new theme and notifiy ubuntu-docs
* cherry-pick progress bar improvements from michaelforrest (thanks!)

===== update-manager =====
* debug/fix #415026  (fold do-release-upgrade --check and check-release-upgrade into the same program)
* work on "do-release-upgrade"
* test upgrade on real HW
* document "nomodeset" kernel cmdline workaround in ubuntu wiki
* analyize failure
* Debug/report i830 based graphics failure #534375
* move XF86Config-4 away on upgrade (really really outdated)
* merge fixes from Wesley Schwengl (thanks)
* import updated translations from rosetta
* Debug/fix(?) update-manager/apport issue #369951

===== apt =====
* Apt: add "oldlibs" to Apt::Never-Mark-AutoRemove
* review/sponsor SRU for python-apt (#531876) with persia
* Python-apt: debug/fix FTBFS
* look at download problem with > 4GB (#510543)
* debug timeout failure (#517797)
* Python-apt: review/merge latest debian-sid changes and upload to PPA
* Python-apt: test new merge (in ppa:mvo/python-apt)
* Apt: debug/fix #502641 (apt-get source version selection)
* fixe three letter language codes
* fix sudo/http_proxy interaction (#432631, #391409)

===== beta-1 =====
* run app-install-data/command-not-found updates

===== misc =====
* comment on Mirrors RT #9459
* Apturl: port from gtkhtml2 to webkit (part of lucid-depulication)
* Kvm: ran into #531823 and test fix
* Gdebi: new 0.6.0 version ready for lucid (fixes only)

===== review/sponsoring =====
* Ubumirror: review/sponsor upload
* Review/sponsor/upload app-install-data-partner package
* Review/merge update-manager dpm, barry branches
* Review/merge update-manager LTR fix
* Review/sponsor computer-janitor UI fix (#536908)

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Release management =====
* FFe processing
* Preparations for beta-1

===== Packages =====
* sync pinyin-database to get pinyin packages installable on DVD again
* mass-rebuilds for NBS: libhdf5-openmpi-1.8.4, libhdf5-serial-1.8.4
* transfig: FTBFS fix
* x11-apps: fix conffile prompt on upgrade from hardy (Bug:518045)
* handhold plymouth for soname change
* plymouth bug triage in preparation for beta
* fix casper to work with plymouth (Bug:506418; Bug:500198)
* tweak ruby-pkg-tools so it's suitable for MIR

===== Misc =====
* archive admin duties
* look into the Kashmir map question
