{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* EvanDandrea - chair

=== Apologies ===

* Scott - at LF Collab Summit
* Steve

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21447|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====
* PEP 3147; hopefully merged into py3k trunk by Friday.
* bug 519541 investigation (abiword freezes)
==== Colin Watson ====
* GRUB:
* Fix broken space handling in GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR (#557606).
* Improve handling of missing device.map to avoid bogus root= settings
   (#549980).
* Fix workaround for BIOSes that pass bogus DL values (#555500).

* Partitioning:
* Don't offer side-by-side installation on armel (#550963).
* Remove limits on loop labels, which broke LVM/RAID on large disks
   (#543838).
* Tweaked parted_server's limits on free space fragments it doesn't
   bother to show.

* Other installer work:
* Fix up init script output handling on server installations a bit
   better (#548954).
* Cosmetic KDE oem-config string fixes (#540929).
* Fix translation of inactive labels on language changes (#552673).

* Initial Foundations team planning for 10.10.

* Minor assistance with beta-2 preparation, mostly fielding ISO testing
  bugs where I could.

* Worked with Scott and others to develop a plan for smooth boot splash
  in Maverick (foundations-maverick-grub2-boot-framebuffer).

* Merged: parted (including library package name change to smooth
  upgrades, #535368)

* Synced: germinate
==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== Gary Lasker ====
===== Gary Lasker =====
* Continued software-center bug fixes and triage
* 8 fixes this week including two related to channel
   updating mentioned last report
* Continued testing, looking for edge cases, regressions, etc.
* OEM, Foundations weekly team meetings
* Engineering rotation allocation this week
* 90% platform, 10% OEM
* On holiday next week
==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====

** Continuing to push launchpad changes. Not a lot of coding this week,
    but going through the time-consuming process of landing changes.
** Merged various patches and prepared a (hopefully final) upload of
    bzr-builddeb for lucid.

===== Other =====

** Much sponsoring.
** Some lucid bug fixing.
** Archive admin duty.
** Helped debug the gwibber CPU usage issue.
==== LoÃ¯c Minier ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== beta2 =====
* updated for beta-2
* app-install data update
* apt ddtp update

===== update-manager =====
* improve exception logging in the auto-upgrade testerimprove exception logging in the auto-upgrade tester
* look over the upgrade logs
* report odd bind9 behavior (#556332)
* report failure on 8.04->10.04 and attach fix (#556343)
* review/merge branch  lp:~barry/update-manager/132311-bootspace
* add est_kernel_size.py helper, merge into lucid branch
* review/refactor quirks
* refresh translations, manually unfuzzy strings for 10.04 LTS
* update quirks for hardy->lucid upgrade
* support i18n in release notes uri
* add extra protection against removal of video drivers (#556629)
* debug upgrade failure #551782
* improve logging
* save system state prior to the upgrade (#551646)
* raise i18n issue (#559018) with the pt translators
* test new version on hardy, lucid for a new upload
* Analyize upgrade failure (broken metacity/compiz-gnoem)

===== apt =====
* fix unicode/utf8 textwrap issues in ddtp upload (#552542)
* Apt-ddtp update, fix some utf8 issues (#445331)
* add check against invalid utf-8 and upload new ddpt translations
* debug/fix crash in apt-get source #556056

===== support-timeframe =====
* talk about my two branches
* target #558429 to be sure it lands in time
* clarify status on SeedManagement wiki page
* push lp:~mvo/launchpad/support-timeframe-kubuntu (+merge request)

===== software-center =====
* fix missing cache changes monitoring (LP: #432555)
* work with zyga to figure out some slowness issues
* review/merge lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/lp556995
* review/merge lp:~mmcg069/software-center/pathbar-atk
* profiling and making the UI nicer on long operations
* Work on software-center responsivness
* add experimental spinner when changing pages

===== misc =====
* fix #556297
* merge branch lp:~kelemeng/gdebi/bug-554731
* cherry pick i18n fix for gdebi #554731
* Friendly-recovery: merge i18n fixes (#430926)
* Friendly-revoery: try to debug failure to run at all (#543580), not much success
* Debug/send ticket to fix #523714 (changelogs.ubuntu.com needs newer dpkg)
* Gdebi: fix issue with missing --auto-deconfigure
* Upload new compiz with fix for #428769
* GSoC: look at some proposals
* debugging thread deadlock without success
==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* write a script to batch-load AMIs onto the ISO tracker; submitting 12
webforms by hand for the 12 different AMIs each time there's a respin is
tedious
* Lucid Beta 2

===== Sponsorship =====
* xscreensaver (Bug:129769)
* aptitude (Bug:515525)

===== Packages =====
* fix wrong kernel load address in dove netboot image (Bug:541399)
* goffice: fix the upgrade path for libgoffice-0.8-8
* fglrx-installer: upgrade fix, i386 build fix
* kubuntu-logo plymouth theme: fix text placement to match ubuntu-logo
* mythbuntu-default-settings, lubuntu-artwork, ubuntustudio-look,
xubuntu-artwork: add deps on plymouth-label
* move plymouth deps around so metapackages don't pull in themes that
flavors don't want
* paw: fix for FTBFS
* plymouth: fix for initramfs-less systems; and fix initramfs hook script
for the case when only the text theme is installed (Bug:554566)
