{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-center-subcategories
* '''Created''': MichaelVogt
* '''Packages affected''': software-center

=== Summary ===

The software-center should have sub-categories to make big categories like games more manageable. 

=== Release Note ===

Software-center supports more fine grained categorization now.

=== Rationale ===

Some categories like games are rather big and usually the user has a specific game type in mind. 

=== User stories ===

Joe is looking for a card game. He looks into software-center, navigates to games and is happy that he finds card games here.

=== Design ===

The subcategories will be a part of the xml file for the applications.menu (if we decide to use the same applications.menu file as the gnome panel at some point it will become a extra file). They will simply be encoded as <Menu> elements with a matching <Directory> element. We need to ensure that we export the "Name" section in the .directory file to the po file so that it is translatable. The parser in software-center needs to be extended to support the sub-categories and the UI code in software-center needs to be able to deal with this new level as well. Some categories will have sub-categories, some will not.

The UI team will provide details on the look and feel (wireframes) and the categories/sub-categories.

=== Implementation ===

See work items in the spec.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

Go to "Games" section and watch the various sub-sections. 

----
CategorySpec
