{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== No Meeting This Week ==

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Uploaded initial Eucalyptus installer support. Ongoing bug-fixes as testing became feasible.

* Further discussion with GRUB2 upstream about keystatus interface design. Uploaded first plausible version to Ubuntu.

* Uploaded preseedable LVM-on-RAID support. Working on wedging support for it into kickseed.

* Merged: grub2 (twice)

* Fixed mouseemu #419947 (mouseemu prevents use of multi-button mice).

* Fixed hw-detect #251830 (don't install mouseemu on Intel Mac desktops).

* Merged Dell Driver Injection Disk support (#341526).

* Backported fix for console-setup #390292 (undefined kernel key code warnings) to Karmic.

* Arranged for grub-installer to pass user kernel parameters through to grub2.

* Miscellaneous installer updates for Alpha 5, especially translations.

* Sponsorship:
** rsyslog #407862.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week.  Vacation on Monday and Tuesday.
* Fixed some small bugs in the slideshow code.  The slideshow is now fully functional and working on resolutions greater than or equal to 800x600, its intended target.
* Spoke with the design team about getting their input on the slides.
* Guided Roman on how he could best build on the work of the ubiquity-slideshow team to create a KDE slideshow package.
* Followed up on the plugins merge.  I was set to merge it in, but decided to hold off to give Mario and Colin more time to look it over. I spoke with Steve about it briefly and filed bug #419989 for the FFe.
* Filed bug 419796 on devicekit-disks, which is preventing usb-creator from having a working format button.
* Backported some debian-installer changes for bug 234185.
* Fixes to usb-creator.

==== James Westby ====
===== Distro tasks =====
** bzr 1.18 and associated packages uploaded to karmic.
** Talked with dobey about oauth packages.
** Many reviews/sponsoring/uploads for people who wanted things in before FF.

===== Distributed Development =====
** Followed up on a few Launchpad things that are waiting.
** Spoke to jml about branch permissions.
** Landed some fixes from Muharem.

===== Daily Builds =====
** bzr-builder uploaded to karmic.

===== Kerneloops =====
** kerneloops-daemon seeded.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====
* Work on getting apt to use zsync for updating Packages files. Waiting for feedback from Michael Vogt on my patch.

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-store (was app-center) =====
* Update software-store copyright to gpl-3  
* trying to follow the change in the software-store spec
* create webkit branch
* use webkit for rending of the application details page
* Add "add_repository" functionatliy to aptdaemon 
* make the categories view emit proper signals so that the app class can react
* much improved search entry
* Fix crash in aptdaemon (#403467) 
* open cache in the background and keep gtk alive
* add basic keyboard navigation
* discuss private PPA integration (APIs missing)
* add "enable-channel" functionality in software-store
* Fix crash in software-store postrm 
* Work on the progress animation icon (with rugby471)
* add launchpad integration into software-store 
* Debug/fix problem when the aptdaemon stops because of inactivty (we need to reconnect our signals) 
* Add jcastro to the project and activate his daily builds ppa
* Show rdepends count in softtware-store for installed apps
* Review/merge changes from  lp:~rugby471/software-store/software-store-andrew 
* add "CellRendererAnimatedImage" for the progress view
* rework the webkit branch to have a "WebkitWidget" base class that supports running python code from the html/JS and running JS from
   python
* Update aptdaemon branch to include "wait-for-dpkg-lock" feature
* add substituation support based on string.Template()
* Work on the webkit branch, merge changes from rugby471, support  basic thumb fetching (from screenshots.debian.net)
* make the category view a webkit widget to be able to display it the way the spec says
* kill right click menu in webview, enable simple keyboard navigation in the category view
* update pending view on initial startup

===== update-manager =====
* Merge the update-manager change from seb back into bzr
* Work on base-installer integraton    

===== compiz =====
* Upload new compiz-bcop (bugfix) to archive
* Upload more compiz fixes to the compiz PPA  
* Tighten compiz dependencies, upload a bunch of new packages to the compiz ppa

===== apt/synaptic =====
* Debug/fix synaptic crash 
* debug/fix segfault in apt
* Add patch for apt ALLCAPS problem to the apt mvo branch   

===== misc =====
* Phonecall with doko about python-robustness   
* Fix duplicated IDs in gdebi and upload new version (#422096) 
* Bug triage/fixing gdebi (two crashes)         
* Add lzma as a valid member to python-debian (so that it no longer crashes)  
* make gdebi more robust against crashes from python-debian
* Add "--auto-close" option to gdebi to have better auto-test capabilities 
* Phonecall with robbiew

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsoring gtk-vnc, vinagre, notification-daemon, gnome-control-center 
* Review/merge/upload software-properties string fix #420672
* Review/merge/upload apturl kde frontend

==== Mike Terry ====
===== Ubiquity =====
* Continued to work on my plugins branch (merge with trunk, bugfix). There is an FFE for it, but will be pushed after Alpha 5 to minimize any risk.
* Did a bunch of bug cleanup (closed out bugs that are fixed by my timezone work or no longer apply)
* Investigated better mangling of user's real name into a POSIX username.  Seems like we need a feature patch from upstream PyICU svn
before we can properly fix this.

===== Rsyslog =====
* Fixed an annoying bug with permissions on output log files.  If rsyslog received a HUP (as it does when rotating logs), it might not have been able to write to a root-owned syslog anymore.

==== Muharem Hrnjadovic ====
===== Distributed development =====

** More tests and fixes for "merge-package" bzr command, see:
    - lp:~al-maisan/bzr-builddeb/locked-repo-updates
    - lp:~al-maisan/bzr-builddeb/missing-tests

===== Archive administration =====

====== Syncs ======

** libio-compress-perl
** f libio-compress-perl
** f python-numpy
** libtorrent-rasterbar
** taglib
** xboard

====== Component mismatches ======

Checked out a number of potential mismatches. It turned out neither of these were to be demoted to universe:

** language-support-translations-*, in the process of being replaced by language-selector
** ibus-qt/ibus-qt4 needed by Kubuntu
** nvclock/smartdimmer needed by hal

==== Scott James Remnant ====
===== Boot Performance =====

* Merged current debhelper with Steve and Joey's pass of a dh_installinit with Upstart support.  Extended it to provide maintainer scripts that use proper Upstart commands, and do support optional replacement of init scripts of the same name

* Hostname patched to support fallback default ("localhost") if the file doesn't exist or is empty, and no hostname is set.  This eliminates all the need for work in the initscript/Upstart job.

* Bulk of rcS and gdm-critical Upstart jobs packaged from max

* Rewrote the upstart-event helper binary into an upstart-udev-bridge daemon that's somewhat more efficient since we don't need to fork/exec all the time

* Added that to the Upstart source tree for the Ubuntu package

* Began adding the "mountall" code, which needs some work to support  the more complex configurations but works for the simple cases.

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* NEW processing for FeatureFreeze
* UDW session on FFes
* Alpha5 prep

===== Specs =====
* foundations-karmic-multiarch-support: knocked a number of items off the dpkg todo list; evaluated the current upstream status and took the decision to defer this until karmic+1

===== Sponsorship =====
* pam (bug #285574)
* boost1.37 (bug #371617)
* net6 (bug #422149)

===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties
