{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* MichaelVogt
* MikeTerry
* MuharemHrnjadovic
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===
* MatthiasKlose - OEM sprint

=== Agenda ===

* Karmic
** i486/i586 [Keybuk]
** Status Updates on Alpha 3 Deliverables
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic
* Sponsorship queue
* Objectives
* Good news
** Hardy and Jaunty are LSB 4.0 compliant :)
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Removed nasty kernel version hardcoding from armel CD build scripts(the replacement code is nearly as nasty, but at least shouldn't require frequent changes).
* Ran into udevd crash (#396957) and spent some time helping to track it down.
* Reviewed/approved specs:
** foundations-karmic-multiarch-support
* Sponsorship:
** libnice #392225.
** python-pylibacl #391574.
** scim-bridge #305452.
** gparted #398099.
** xscreensaver #398007.
* Merged: dpkg, grub-installer, partman-auto
* Archive admin half-day: cleared syncs (plus some minor tool fixes), did a bunch of not-built-from-source removals, adjusted some kernel component overrides, cleared priority-mismatches, cleared binary NEW
* Feature work:
** foundations-karmic-server-installer-improvements:
** Finished and committed LVM configuration rearrangement.
** Merged mdcfg into partman-md, partly because we've needed to do
     that for ages anyway and partly because it'll make the RAID
     configuration rearrangement much easier. Patch sent upstream for
     review.
** Started work on RAID configuration rearrangement.
* Adjusted finish-install for upstart 0.6.
* Built i486/i586 live CDs out of live filesystems delivered by Adam.
* Updated my parted swap naming patch; accepted upstream.
* Reviewed relevant mail thread and added Muharem to the archive administration team. Filed RT ticket for shell access.
* Caught up on technical-board mail actions.
* Fixed hdparm #396837 (crash when HDIO_DRIVE_CMD(identify) fails).
* Fixed partman-auto #287571 (create_primary_partitions sometimes attempts to create last partition larger than free space).
* TB meeting.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Investigated using wubi's tools/pywine to unit test the windows frontend and backend for usb-creator.
* Reviewed the oem-config and ubiquity merge a number of times,sharing input and patches with mterry.
* Dug at 397366, but have not found a suitable solution yet.
* Merged UNR changes to Wubi for NCommander.
* Undid the merging of bin/usb-creator-{gtk,kde}, cleaning up the code a bit along the way.
* Released a new Wubi and umenu for 8.04.3.
* Sorted out some final travel details for Debcamp.
* Debugged a bug in partman that turned out to be the fault of my desktop running 9.04 rather than karmic.
* Worked on the slideshow specification.  Mostly finished the ubiquity code.  Had a discussion with mpt about some aspects of the
design.  Tried to start a conversation with Gerry, but he's on holiday until later this month.
* Followed up with a community member (on ubuntu-installer@) who wanted an option to not wipe a partition on install in ubiquity.

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====
** Importers down for 4 days due to LP API breaking. Back up now.
** Cleaned up and improved the documentation somewhat.
** Investigated some of the failures.

===== Daily Builds =====
** No progress this week.

===== Kerneloops =====
** Worked on the kerneloops changes.
** Hit a snag that apport may not submit from the same machine that the problem happened on, so need to be a bit more intrusive in to kerneloops than first thought.

===== Distro Tasks =====
** Reviewed some packages on REVU.
** "Half-day" archive admin duties on Monday.

===== Other =====
** Chasing up confirmation for DebConf/sprint flights (again).

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== AppCenter =====
* Code cleanup in gnome-app-install (AppCenter spec)
* experiment with a apt-xapian-index plugin for the app-install-data-ubuntu data, not happy yet
* Performance analysis in g-a-i startup

===== software-properties =====
* Bug triage/fixing in software-properties
* Ensure daily apt cron job is executable when software-properties changes it (#390319) 
* Port gnome-control-center to the new ubuntu-system-service 
* Software-properties: ensure only valid lines can be added with add-apt-repository 

===== synaptic =====
* Integrate apt-xapian-index --update into synaptic 
* Debug problem with a-x-i and synaptic (constantly rebuilding), send patch to enrico
* Merge synaptic from debian, upload new version to ubuntu 

===== unattended-upgrades =====
* Add pm-utils hibernate hook to ensure that unattended-upgrades is finished before going into final sleep
* Merge unattended upgrades from the mvo branch, upload to karmic

===== update-manager/update-notifier =====
* Show number of available updates in update-manager 
* Work on update-notifier to ensure that logrotated logs are considered for the auto-launch code 
* Upgrade testing 
* Test update-manager landscape upgrade support and set spec to beta-available
* Fix main-all auto-upgrade tester profile 
* Port update-notifier to use GAppInfo instead of g_spawn (#46258)
* Fix crash in update-manager refresh_updates_count()
* upload new  version 

===== kernel-crashdump =====
* update wiki because crash behaviour on sysreq-c changed in 2.6.31
* work on the apport-retracer
* Push apport changes for the kernel crashdump stuff to lp:~mvo/apport/kernel-crashdump 
* add crash_signature support plus test
* Discuss apport behaviour for local retracing (#392074)

===== apt =====
* Work on more dynamic apt cdrom method(lp:~mvo/apt/libudev-dlopen)
* Debug failure in main-all auto-upgrade test, turns out that for really huge install lists there is a (hard to trigger) bug in libapt
* Add check to apt.cron.daily to ensure that timestamps in the future get killed

===== misc ======
* app-install-data-ubuntu update (review new desktop files etc) 
* Add new script "add-apt-repository" to python-software-properties(ApturlPolicy spec)
* Debug/workaround problem in gksu with the latest libgtk (with seb)
* Make "include-links" the default in python-central and push to lp:~mvo/+junk/python-central
* improve spelling suggestions in command-not-found
* Port ubuntu-system-serivce to polkit-1 

===== sponsoring =====
* computer-janitor, gnome-app-install
* calctool (new ver), brasero (new ver), update-manager (bugfix)

==== Mike Terry ====
===== Ubiquity =====
* Finally pushed the oem-config merge to trunk!  Thanks to Colin and Evan for spotting and fixing some final issues.
* Created a branch for translated timezones and filed a merge request. It's very fancy, but there needs to be a bit of discussion about how to sort the unicode lists.
* Started looking at writing some unit tests

===== Rsyslog =====
* MIR for rsyslog was approved
* MIR for librelp was not, as there was a possible out-of-bounds error
in librelp that needs to be fixed.  I emailed the librelp folks about
it.

==== Muharem Hrnjadovic ====
My Launchpad past caught up with me :P in the last week I was mostly sorting out package set and archive permission issues that would stand in the way of the archive reorganisation:
* done: Fix hard-coded archive references in package set based archive permissions (https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/397490)
* in progress: Expose package set related archive permissions on the Launchpad API; the 3 branches that implement this are currently being reviewed. (https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/soyuz/+bug/397494)
* in progress: Package sets should be associated with a distro series; this has been analysed for impact and a database patch was prepared but it's highly unlikely these changes are going to land this week. (https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/bugs/399186)

==== Scott James Remnant ====
* i486/i586 performance comparisons; the result was that the big performance gain we saw comes from gcc 4.4.  There is little changed between -march=i486 and -march=i586 when we *also* force -mtune=generic as we do (generic is in fact tuning for P4-era   processors).  In fact, the only thing enabled by -march=i586 -mtune=generic over -march=i486 -mtune=generic is the cmpxchg8b instruction, which libc would use if it wasn't explicitly #ifdef'd out. It may be prudent to do the switch anyway in case there are other optimisations later down the line.

===== Upstart =====
* Upstart 0.6.0 was finally released!  This is a new stable version based off the D-Busified 0.5 branch I'd been working on for the past couple of years in between management duties.

* After the release, was still having issues with the "expect fork" and "expect daemon" code [which still uses ptrace()], debugged and applied a patch that seems to fix it well enough until we move to the netlink code.

* Created a "release" bzr branch of Upstart; this contains common history with both upstart trunk and libnih trunk, merged together in the correct layout - and then has the tarball unpacked over the top.

* Created an Ubuntu packaging branch from that; I can "bzr pull" to update to the latest release, and I can "bzr merge -c" to cherry-pick from trunk!  :-) 

* Some issues with building Upstart on ARM, the test suite triggers a compiler bug and either hangs, runs out of memory or hits an Internal compiler error.  I love my test suite.

===== udev =====
* Updated to 145

* Did some gardening of the bugs list, since I hadn't been focussing on it for a while

===== util-linux =====
* Got the branches all back in sync between Lamont and I
* Added a commit for Colin's recent upload
* Updated the Debian and Ubuntu trees to 2.15.1, uploaded to Ubuntu
* Ported our hwclock udev rules to Debian and made the start rule of the init script conditional on udev not running (agreed during Debian Boot sprint).

===== Kernel =====
* The Upstart test suite strikes again!  This time it identified a regression in inotify since it was entirely rewritten upstream to be based on fsnotify

* Discussed the bug with upstream maintainer, it's being caused by merging duplicate events for a directory based on only the mask - and not checking the filename (ie. multiple CREATE, CHANGE or DELETE events for different files in the same directory are merged into one for the first file)

* Patches supplied to the kernel team since they just missed rc3

===== Misc =====
* A fair amount of discussion over the gdm vs. getty bug, where both end up sharing the same vt.  This is fundamentally caused by getty VTs being hardcoded while X is free to chose the first it thinks is free. I'm still in favour of moving getty to be not hardcoded, so our configuration would be "start N gettys" and they'd get the lowest N numbered VTs after X

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* Ubuntu 8.04.3
** finalizations of several pending SRUs
** push fix for open-iscsi bug #236640
** candidate images available with final kernel
** image rerolls for wubi, umenu fixes
** discussions with desktop team regarding bug #207072
** identify and implement fix for bug #207072
* phone call to discuss the escalation process for Support SRU bugs

===== Packages =====
* clean up acpi-support dependencies

===== Specs =====
* continued work with Debian on multiarch spec

===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties
* Preparing DebConf talks
* work with Dustin on pam_motd
