{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* You - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

{{{#!python
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'surbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
}}}

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27560|alpha-2 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

===== foundations-m-continuous-integration =====

* started looking at quickly python
* filed bug 585617, submitted patch, worked w/didirocks for approval
* email exchanges

===== foundations-m-python-versions =====

* started; built 2.7 ppa
* uploaded python 2.7 from debian
* updated python-defaults to use 2.7
* tested on maverick vm; lots more packages to convert ;)
* more emails on debian-python

===== computer janitor =====

* 2.0.1 tweak for maverick
* filed and fixed bug 586088, forcing 2.0.3
* sponsor upload from mvo fixed problem
* udd packaging refactoring test, found bug 587058
* bug triage

===== misc =====

* sprint travel, us holiday, maverick vm, various server issues
* dkim draft discussion w/scottk

==== Colin Watson ====
* Merged: choose-mirror (tedious), rootskel, debian-installer (tedious), partman-auto-crypto, partman-ext3, ttf-cjk-compact, partman-partitioning, partman-target, bsdmainutils, openssh, lowmem, partman-auto, partman-auto-lvm, partman-crypto
* Synced: partman-lvm, partman-md
* Upgraded mklibs' symbol handling to cope with new binutils/eglibc.
* A good deal of SRU processing and archive administration.
* Spent the latter part of the week upgrading Debian's grub2 packaging to a current snapshot and doing a bug trawl.  It's got into a sufficiently bad state to be attracting attention on debian-devel, and nobody else is really in a position to deal with it.  Most of the bugs are relevant to Ubuntu as well anyway, and we were going to need a newer snapshot as a base for development work in Maverick.
* Fixed several undefined-behaviour buglets in GRUB, noticed while watching interminable compile runs.
* Fixed grub-probe to work with symbolic links under /dev/mapper as well as with real block devices.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Discussions with Debian over including usb-creator (http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=582884)
* Reviewing usb-creator branches from Dmitrijs.
* Meeting with Mark and Michael to discuss the status of the installer redesign specification.
* Specification drafting.  All that's left is the work items for the installer redesign spec (blocked on the spec being finished) and getting others to fill in foundations-m-upgrade-and-install-testing.
* Work on foundations-m-upgrade-and-install-testing.
** Hudson research.
** Wrote code to remaster an ISO with the built-from-tree ubiquity, sikuli dependencies, and Hudson slave machinery.
** Wrote a plugin to Hudson to put a slave offline as part of the build step, so we can safely physically reboot slaves and let jobs queue up until they've finished booting.
** Added support for shared locks to the locks-and-latches Hudson plugin.  This will let us create both "build ubiquity" and "test ubiquity" jobs that take a lock, but slaves of the "test ubiquity" job can still execute at the same time.
* Uploaded a patch to bash-completion and ultimately reverted it when it was found to have some unintended side-effects that I don't believe we can work around (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/maverick-changes/2010-June/001077.html).
* Made a 10.04 USB image for the shop.
==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== language-selector =====
* two day face-to-face mini sprint with Arne
* split functionatlity into dbus-backend/frontend
* add aptdaemon support
* Export writeSystemLang, writeSystemLanguage, GetMissingLanguages via dbus
* add stub verify_no_unexpected_changes() to the cache (for arne)
* create lp:~mvo/language-selector/sync-languagelist-from-localechooser branch to sync languagelist file between l-s and d-i
* fix bug #584438 (for real now hopefully)
* fix cache mark bug
* simplify the ifs in _mark_additional_writing_aids() and _mark_additional_translation_packages
* cleanup

===== software-center =====
* Discussion about new apps implementation
* Foundations-m-post-release-apps-implementation
* review lp:~hellium/software-center/installed-date (pending on   contributor agreement)
* Merge/upload new aptdaemon
* add get_subscribed_archives_async() function to GLaunchpad
* push new launchpad backend module lp:~mvo/software-center/launchpad-login
* review/merge  lp:~mmcg069/software-center/catview2
* review/merge lp:~mmcg069/software-center/catview2 branch and refactor a bit to keep old webkit functinatlity (optional)
* work on buy-stuff (lp:~mvo/software-center/launchpad-login)

===== update-manager =====
* add support for lucid->maverick upgrades
* make pockets configurable
* fix url_downloadable in proxy environment
* work on moving u-m backend to aptdaemon and debug hang

===== apt =====
* merged from the experimental branch/donkult branch

===== misc =====
* Debug/fix crash in maintenance-check.py
  (lp:~mvo/launchpad/support-timeframe-fix-for-404)
* Deja-dup: ran into #486662 and push fix
* Edit-patch: fix to work with full path (#569053)
* Merge gdebi patch

===== sposnoring =====
* Review/sponsor computer-janitor (for barry)
* Review/sponsor updated sessioninstaller (thanks to Sebastian Heinlein)
==== Scott James Remnant ====

* UK Holiday Weekend

* Have been mostly (still) listening to myself teddy-bearing at UDS, turning them into notes, and trying to formulate a roadmap for Upstart

==== Surbhi Palande ====
