{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* LarsWirzenius
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===

* LukeYelavich - on vacation
* JamesWestby - at November Nexus

=== Agenda ===

* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=1326|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====

* Merged: clock-setup, kbd, console-setup, lilo-installer, busybox(including fix for #293586, though that will need to be backported to intrepid), anna, finish-install, netcfg, silo-installer, yaboot-installer, grub-installer, palo-installer, parted, base-files, partman-newworld, partman-crypto, partman-ext3, partman-jfs, partman-xfs, partman-reiserfs, iso-scan (phew)

* Some debian-installer bug review, including cleaning up very old daily-installer-* directories from the archive (#40186).

* Followed up to upstart/util-linux #273189 with a more detailed description of work to be done (noticed during finish-install merge).

* Investigated casper #70566 at some length by way of sponsorship processing; I have a cleaned-up version of the proposed patch in my casper working tree now, but this is likely to need more complex fixes in usplash in order to display non-ASCII characters properly,including perhaps switching to unifont.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Prepared for and presented a usb-creator UbuntuOpenWeek talk (https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MeetingLogs/openweekintrepid/UsbCreator).
* Added a warning about what operating systems will be removed when selecting the "use entire disk" option in ubiquity. Still needs to be added to the advanced page.
* Wrote up instructions on using the Ubuntu USB disks. Still in progress as I need to verify that they do not work on Intel Macs (firmware issue) other than my aging 2006 iMac.  If anyone has an Intel Mac, I would greatly appreciate your assistance in this. 
* Modified ubiquity to notify the user of what operating systems will be deleted if they choose to use the entire disk.  I still need to provide proper i18n support for this.
* Dropped the timezone setting code from casper as it's unnecessary and resets the time on every reboot in persistent mode.  Looking into why update-initramfs is disabled on the Live CD, especially in persistent mode, with the hope of fixing LP: #292159.
* Made numerous fixes to usb-creator in preparation for an SRU for Intrepid and a backport for Hardy.  Merged with Mario's branch and added i18n support.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

* Fixes for system-cleaner's many bugs in intrepid, to prepare an SRU. (The upload has now been done, kindly sponsored by Michael Vogt.)

==== Matthias Klose ====

* Nov 04 - Nov 07: OOo ESC meeting / OOoCon, planning report 
* Nov 11: email catch up, catchup on bug reports, openjdk 6b13 build,
   gcc-snapshot update

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== update-manager =====
* updated for jaunty and uploaded
* Better error reporting on upgrade calculation failures 
* SRU for evms removal (LP: #292179), needs to be added
   for hardy->lts+1 too
* Do not add "relatime" if "noatime" is already given 
* add release update notifications on the server via
   update-motd

===== update-notifier =====
* make apt-check a python module, refactoring the code
   to make it cleaner, remove unneeded output, add 
   --human-readable
* Modify update-notifier-kde to work with the latest update-notifier
   apt-check changes so that it can drop its own copy and just
   can use the one in update-notifier-common
   (lp:~mvo/update-notifier-kde/mvo) 
* merge update-motd support from kirkland with some modifications
* upload version that will show the amount of upgradable packages
   in the motd 
* create a branch for a own dist-upgrade notification icon
   (lp:~ubuntu-core-dev/update-notifier/dist-upgrade-notifier)
* Remove debian/rules arch-build from update-notifier and use
   the bzr-buildpackage hooks

===== apturl =====
* Work on apturl and add some basic (client side) 
   string substitution 
* Work on apturl and (known) channel adding support for 
   known repositories (from app-install-data-commercial)
* Refactoring apturl for better UI speperation and cleaner
   code - a qt frontend should be straightforward now
* asked for security review of my changes (thanks kees!)
* improved whitelisting and stronger checks
* upload new apturl

===== apt =====
* Apt code review/merge from jackyf
* Trying to debug a cache open problem (race between
   synaptic/packagekit?) 
* Work on python-apt fix for ports.ubuntu.com

===== compiz =====
* merge the jauty branch
* remove a bunch of old patches
* upload to jaunty

===== merges =====
* lots of merges, sync requests

===== sponsoring =====
* gnome-terminal, metacity, dput, software-properties, command-not-found

===== misc =====
* bug triage
* mail
* Setup jaunty devel environement 
* boot beatuficaion call and research into it
   (kernel modesetting, plymouth, ...)
* draft uds agenda items
* sru for app-install-data-commercial 
* research how to block shutdown during upgrades, would be 
   relatively straightforward if gdm would use hal for the shutdown,
   need to discuss this with seb

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Release management =====
* working on getting the archive ready for jaunty
* post-release email roundup
* change around the mythbuntu image builds from alternates to liveCDs, per Mario
* SRU reviews

===== Packages =====
* cleanup of PAM bugs

===== Archive Administration =====
* partner archive cleanup 

===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties
