{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''No Meeting Due to 9.04 Release on April 23, 2009.'''

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Fixed user-setup #361627 (should not remove ecryptfs-utils when in use).
* Slight update to wpasupplicant #44194 work, to log to syslog when running as a D-Bus service as well.
* Fixed ubuntu-cdimage #33438 (provide SHA1SUMS as well as MD5SUMS on cdimage).
* Fixed ubuntu-cdimage #122229 (add pointers on cdimage.u.c to releases.u.c).
* Lots of other 9.04 release preparation, of which I didn't keep very detailed logs.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== James Westby ====
* Daily builds
  - Pushed my work on bzr-builder to launchpad, and setup ~dailydebs-team to host some PPAs and recipes to test it. There is a bzr-builder PPA there, and the bzr nightly PPA is now done with this tool.
  - There are some interesting questions still to solve, for instance the packaging of gnome-do is neither mergeable nor nestable in to the upstream code without some machinations.
  - A little bit of work still needs to be done to run everything from cron without some scripting on behalf of the user.

* Distributed Development
  - Investigated the state of source package branches on launchpad.
  - Discussed with Colin how to handle the existing branches during the migration.
  - Started the work to handle collisions between uploads and commits in the importer.

* Jaunty
  - ISO testing for the RC.
  - Archive admin and sponsorship of some last minute fixes for universe.
  - Cracked the "consolekit prevents switching VTs the first time" bug (#271962) thanks to some hints from Colin.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Luke Yelavich ====
===== accessibility =====
* Discussion with upstream and the community about my proposed linux speech changes.
* Accessibility bug triaging.

===== Audio =====
* Last minute pulseaudio bug fixes thanks to Dan Chen.
* Packaging and uploading of pulseaudio 0.9.15 final, pavucontrol 0.9.8, paprefs 0.9.8, and libcanberra 0.12 to my PPA(1).
* Audio bug triaging
* Was pointed to a bug regarding the prevention of pulseaudio from starting for accessibility profiles after install from the live CD, and encrypted home. Seems ecryptfs seems to not like files with nothing in them, need to test myself to see if I can reproduce.

===== dmraid =====
* Dmraid bug triaging
* Last minute dmraid bug fix to fix some sector calculation errors.
* Worked through a bug with a user relating to upgrading from intrepid, and the use of dmraid arrays with LVM. need to do further testing to attempto to reproduce.

===== misc =====
* RC and final release image testing for UbuntuStudio.

==== Matthias Klose ====
** Now that GCC-4.4.0 was released before karmic opens, update and prepare 4.4 packages for upload
** Prepare binutils & glibc
** Final python-2.6.2 packages
** Fixes for python-twisted-core update.
** Fix cup build failure.

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== upgrades =====
* lots of upgrade testing
* Silence pyqt4 logging spam from u-m main.log
* Deal more cleanly with pre-configure errors (#356781) 
* Upgrade tests (with ~3500 python packages installed)
* Kubuntu install to test (#348704)
* Reproduced missing qt.so on kubuntu upgrade, fix it via workaround (#348704)
* Fix crash in u-m when patch is not installed (#361194)  
* Debug upgrade problem with nvidia driver (#351394) 
* Fix some u-m bugs (#357755 and xorg.conf rewrite and push to lp:~mvo/update-manager/post-jaunty
* Work on python upgrade problem (#357884) - phonecall with doko about it
* Fix free space check crash in u-m (#362066) 
* Command-not-found update / app-install-data update   
* Workaround gwenview hold-back (#360222) 
* Debug/fix nvidia-common #363500 that causes update-manager to exit on "update-manager --dist-upgrade"
* Cleanup in the StartInstall quirks code (LP: #363132), lp:~mvo/update-manger/post-jaunty
* ensure brasero is not held-back #364136
* workaround for hal restart problem that makes NM kill its network
* Debug no-longer supported problem with u-m  #364583
* Fix guidance-power-manager upgrade problem (#364620) 
* upload new update-manager to jaunty-proposed and ddd SRU test-cases for it

===== apt =====
* Work on apt problem with gpgv (#356012)
* work on apt gpgv test-suit
* Push apt-gpgv test-suite to lp:~mvo/+junk/apt-gpgv-tests
* Apt merges (fix for apt.cron.daily, merge the gpg handling) 

===== compiz =====
* Conf call about i965 problem - decision to blacklist i965 in 
   compiz
* Prepare/test/upload compiz with i965 blacklisted

=== misc ===
* bug triage
* Review/merge patch for coreutils/apt problem (#354793)
* Fix md5 use in python-support (#340757) and upload new python-support
* Work on packagekit cache corruption problem (#257639), prepare SRU and upload to jaunty-proposed
* Add check for indicator-applet to "add-inidicator-applet.py", put gnome-panel into bzr (#349237
* port automatic mime-search patch and put into nautilus bzr (#362307)
* Build python2.4-apt package for jaunty (#354812) and push to my PPA
* Work on synaptic quick-search improvements and improve the xapian-index rebuild logic and push fix to PPA (and later to 
   jaunty-proposed)

===== sponsoring =====
* Review gksu patch 

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====
