{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* LukeYelavich
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

* UDS Karmic
* Reminder for performance reviews
* AOB/Good News

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Synced: mlocate, klibc, partman-newworld, ocaml
* Merged: rootskel, partman-auto, base-installer, netcfg, localechooser, console-setup
* Fixed partman-auto-lvm to make partman-auto-lvm/guided_size preseedable.
* Fixed gfxboot-theme-ubuntu #360087 (bootloader.pot not present in the binary package).
* Initial, very basic, Ubuntu branding work for GTK d-i.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week, bank holiday on Monday, May 4th
* Lots and lots of work on usb-creator in ~evand/usb-creator/future.
** Further refactoring, drag and drop support, disk image support, unit tests, proper mounted partition management, properly handling errors from external commands, etc.
** Merging changes from Bruno Dilly's OEM team branch.
* Merged liw's progress time estimator into usb-creator trunk. Perhaps this is something we can use in ubiquity as well.
* Had discussions in #ubuntu-devel over how we call dd in usb-creator to create the casper persistence file.  It was agreed that we move back to the Intrepid behavior and I made the necessary changes in trunk.
* Work on migration-assistant Windows registry Python bindings.  By the end of next week I hope to have those and the Mac OSX binary plist code finished.
* Drafting UDS Karmic specifications.

==== James Westby ====

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Luke Yelavich ====
===== Accessibility =====
* Further writing of documentation relating to the speech work that I will likely be doing in the karmic cycle
* Discussions with upstrea about the future plans of accessibility for GNOME 3.0, particularly relating to speech
* Updated gnome-orca to 2.27.1, accerciser to 1.7.1, mousetweaks to 2.27.1, gok to 2.27.1, and merged at-spi with Debian changes 2.26.1 for karmic.
* Merged espeak with latest changes from Debian in karmic.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging
* Updated and merged the alsa stack, alsa-driver, alsa-lib, alsa-plugins, alsa-utils, and alsa-tools to 1.0.19 for karmic.
* Updated and merged pulseaudio to 0.9.15 for karmic. Still need to update paprefs and pavucontrol.

===== dmraid =====
* Updated dmraid to latest Debian revision for karmic.

===== Misc =====
* UbuntuStudio disk image testing for jaunty
* Further planning for UDS karmic

==== Matthias Klose ====
* glibc merge with Debian unstable
* openjdk-6 update for karmic
* integrating build of different VM's from the openjdk packaging into IcedTea.
* openjdk/llvm/shark integration in the ubuntu packages, llvm update
* update symbols files for the various GCC runtime libraries, file bug reports, fix regressions, rinse, repeat.
* on lpia, build GCC-4.4 with code opt defaulting to atom. Note, it did default to i386 until Apr 30.
* bank holiday May 01

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== travel =====
* travel to Cologne for a one-to-one meeting with Muharem
* worked on a bunch of merges together and I sponsored them

===== update-notifier =====
* Add autolaunch minimal interval for u-n (#369198)  
* Fix some update-notifier debug logging issues
* Upload new update-notifier to karmic 

===== update-manager =====
* Debug/reproduce kubuntu-kde4-desktop upgrade problem (#368459) and fix in u-m 
* Make update-manager always display version strings in the changelog details even if no changelog can be downloaded
* Fix comment bug in u-m (#300504)         
* Work on auto-install-tester  
* Debug strange upgrade problem (#370062) and add workaround code, its still unclear what has caused the error but the error condition should be detected and handled now (long)
* enable "update-manager -d" for jaunty->karmic upgrades (and test with kvm)

===== SRU =====
* Debug/fix apturl refresh problem (thanks to dobey) and SRU  (#356781)
* SRU for compizconfig-backend-gconf (#352656)   

===== compiz =====
* Work on compiz karmic packages
  - cleanup
  - add coreabiversion patches from debian
  - merge interessting bits from the the debian packages
* Integrate the compiz-core-abiversion-$ver into the plugin packages

===== merges =====
* dash, curl, newt (forward patch to debian), file, findutils, slang2, strace, popcon(sync)

===== misc =====
* Debug/fix g-a-i search bug (#354563)   
* Update python-apt distros for karmic
* Change apt_check.py to only count security from $(lsb_release -c -s)-security updates (thanks to seb128) 
* update popcon.ubuntu.com to deal with karmic and armel

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* SRU processing for jaunty
* a couple of d-i merges in preparation for alpha1

===== Packages =====
* merge libxcb, python-support, gnome-sharp2, libgsf, pm-utils, ptlib,pygments, rss-glx, texlive-bin, ttf-sazanami, libpam-ldap, libitext-java,libxml-twig-perl, vim
* syncify glib2.0, gmime2.2, ndesk-dbus, ndesk-dbus-glib, coreutils again
* push more patches up to Debian so I don't have to merge these again next time!
* coreutils upload to fix sort segfaulting in kernel-wedge
* try to fix a user's backlight handling via hal (bug #360795)

===== Sponsorship =====
* acpi-support (bug #366119), happily trimming the package down even
* farther
* follow up on bug #139661 (aptitude)
* mono (bug #344750)

===== Misc =====
* Performance review season
* Monday archive duties
