{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Introduction ===

This page is specifically for the gathering of proposed features for the Oneiric (11.10) development cycle. Prior to UDS, we will organize the proposed Foundations track sessions, based on a subset of the proposed features below, and will post on a separate UDS planning wiki page: <nowiki>[[UDSBudapest]]</nowiki>. The format of that page is simply a long list of sessions that can be ordered, adjusted, etc. 

=== UDS Discussion/Feature CANDIDATES ===

* Package management
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-debdelta|debdelta support]]</nowiki>
** http://wiki.debian.org/SummerOfCode2011#DebDelta_APT_Native_Integration
** infrastructure support: lead time?
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-update-manager-btrfs|update-manager btrfs integration improvements]]</nowiki> (auto-import latest apt-btrfs-snapshot on update-manager build, calculate additional diskspace, and <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/590182/|Booting upgrade snapshots]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-apt-mirror-method|mirror method by default]]</nowiki>: "deb mirror://mirrors.ubuntu.com/mirrors.txt natty main restricted"
** we need to be sure we only return good mirrors; see Bug:745700
** support ports architectures (requires passing release and architecture through the API)
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-update-manager-release-announcements|update-manager release announcements html-i18n server side work]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[SoftwareUpdates#Ideas|Improving updates]]</nowiki> (as suggested by mpt)
** We already have separate sessions for debdelta support and mirror method by default, and a Debian GSoC project for apt/dpkg transaction ordering which should feed into future ability to run downloads and installations in parallel.  This seems as though it might be enough for one cycle?
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-enable-unattended-upgrades|Make it easy to enable unattended-upgrades via e.g. a additional button in update-manager.]]</nowiki>  When that is pressed it should turn on unattended-upgrades in the "minimal-chunks" mode so that on e.g. shutdown the delay is as minimal as possible without breaking anything.
** apt-get --download-only for daily jobs?
* Installation
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-wubi|wubi migration]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519354|already prototyped]]</nowiki>, and see the author's <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-with-wubi.blogspot.com/|blog]]</nowiki>)
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-automated-ubiquity-testing|automated testing, and polish]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-ubiquity-advanced-partitioner|ubiquity advanced partitioner redesign]]</nowiki>
** preseeding language, timezone, keyboard, user details from existing Windows, Mac, or Ubuntu installation.
** Consider switch to USB form factor
** UbuntuSpec:other-foundations-n-cd-boot
* Python
** <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-dhpython-transition|Transition plan for dh_python{2,3}]]</nowiki>
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-python-versions
* <nowiki>[[UpStart|upstart]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-ipv6-healthcheck|Tested IPv6 support]]</nowiki> (Ubuntu should ideally work identically with only IPv4, only IPv6 and dual-stack setups. Including cases where one of v4 or v6 is broken (not connected to the internet) and work with all the possible  router advertisement/dhcpv4/dhcpv6 setups).
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-more-halsectomy|remove HAL from the archive]]</nowiki>
 
=== Natty specs deferred ===

* UbuntuSpec:appdevs-foundations-n-user-contributed-metadata-for-software-center
* UbuntuSpec:packageselection-foundations-n-python-continuous-integration
* UbuntuSpec:packageselection-foundations-n-update-notifier-refactor
* UbuntuSpec:packageselection-foundations-n-squashfs-lzma-redux
* UbuntuSpec:other-foundations-n-disconnected-upgrade

=== Support FROM Foundations ===

As usual, Foundations will be providing Ubuntu support for the other teams. A high-level listing of projects where we likely will be involved is given in this section.

==== Desktop ====

* TBD

==== Design ====

* TBD

==== Server ====

==== Kernel ====

* TBD

==== OEMs/Canonical Corporate Partners ====

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-ubiquity-lvm-luks|LVM + LUKS encryption for Ubiquity]]</nowiki>
** Enterprise customers are requesting the capability, or an option to have hooks/hidden options to enable this feature without resorting to the alternate installer or adding custom scripts to hack the functionality. Given the current work in Ubiquity to make the installation as simple as possible for the end user, the full disk encryption method (LVM + LUKS) could be hidden from the end-user or in advanced partitioning options.
* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-corporate-mirs|Main inclusion requests]]</nowiki>:
** SSSD updated to latest stable version and in main
** Move current release of opensc into main (currently 0.12)
** Enterprise customers (PSE currently supporting) are using opensc to work with smart cards. Review in progress to determine use by French and US Gov (HSPD-12). Requires work with GDM integration
** Move tpm-tools and dependencies into main, requires additional fix/qa
** Enterprise customers (PSE currently supporting) are using tpm devices in Enterprise notebooks/desktops
** Apt-mirror, apt-proxy and apt-cacher-ng in main
** Those packages are essential in setting up local repository, proxies and customer specific repos in the Enterprise. Customers use them extensively, and they should be in main. Currently they are all in universe.

=== Support FOR Foundations ===

Collect here items which we would like to see be done by other teams

==== Kernel ====

* HFS+ journal support would allow us to do Wubi for Mac OSX, as well as resize OSX partitions during install (for dual boot setups)

==== Desktop ====

* TBD

==== Server ====

* Infrastructure to allow system/scenario testing for:
** Upstart
** Runlevel assertions and state checking. Examples:
*** No networking in single-user mode
*** Ensure display manager running when cold-booting to runlevel 2.
*** Ensure display manager running when changing runlevel from 1 to 2.
** common "server scenarios":
** LAMP
** LDAP+krb

==== Ubuntu on ARM ====

* TBD

==== Launchpad ====

* Server-side support for debdelta

==== QA ====

* Regular system/scenario test runs for Upstart and common "server scenarios"
* A central location where all our tests report to (http://platform.ubuntu.com ?).  I think such a public facing collection of our existing test systems would encourage us to build even more.  See <nowiki>[[https://portal.admin.canonical.com/40560|RT 40560]]</nowiki> as one possible solution.
* <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/591257/|actually measuring]]</nowiki> [ <nowiki>[[http://fossplanet.com/f10/brainstorming-uds-n-performance-57547/#post206739|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://fossplanet.com/f10/brainstorming-uds-n-performance-57547/index2.html#post208903|2]]</nowiki> ]

=== Topics requiring no discussion (Just do it / already done) ===
* drop 2.6 and make 2.7 the default during the toolchain setup (and before the first autosync run)
* switch our default/Main boost version to 1.46
* Consider utilizing `/run` (requires blueprint; Scott James Remnant volunteered/requested to implement)
* Offer read-only recovery mode (`friendlyrecovery`, `mountall` and `Upstart`)
   (See bug Bug:575469).
* port software-center to pygi/python3:
** UbuntuSpec:foundations-o-software-center-py3
** UbuntuSpec:desktop-o-software-center-gtk3

=== Too small for a session (consolidate, or move to bugs?) ===

* detection of invalid swap UUID in /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume
* Extend the scope of functionality for more kickstart keywords to be parsed
** - rootpw --iscrypted : option should be recognized and translated, or ignored with silent error
** ''This should already be supported.  If it isn't working, we need a bug report with logs.'' --ColinWatson
** - sed escaping for late-command / %post commands in kickstart is not escaped properly (Bug:715746)
** - firewall command is not recognized (Bug:776701)

=== Move to some other team ===

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuSpec:installation-success-measurement|measuring download-installation success]]</nowiki> (which team?  only a small proportion of this is really related to Foundations)
* Spread Ubuntu (with the web team, initial discussions in the Natty cycle, talk to ev for details)
* Ubuntu for In-Vehicle Infotainment
** Is there any community interest around creating a seed and/or derivative of Ubuntu for in-vehicle infotainment systems (not Foundations; which team?)
* Open``Grok
** resolve Java issues and package it
** create "code.ubuntu.com" to allow all files in all pockets in all repos in all releases to be searched!
** proposed for server track
