{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foo
* '''Created''':
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

Ubuntu Server customers for this feature have large (+200) installations, where
IT has set processes and policies around software updates that employees must 
follow. These customers have no *easy* way to setup an internal package 
repository to deploy updates and customized packages to users. We would like to 
allow them to pick and choose which fixes are deployed internally, and have the 
ability to define staging and production policy-based groups.

=== Release Note ===

This section should include a paragraph describing the end-user impact of this change.  It is meant to be included in the release notes of the first release in which it is implemented.  (Not all of these will actually be included in the release notes, at the release manager's discretion; but writing them is a useful exercise.)

It is mandatory.

=== Rationale ===

This should cover the _why_: why is this change being proposed, what justifies it, where we see this justified.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

==== Requirements (one customer) ====
* pipeline model
* get packages from public ubuntu repository
* three repos for updated software:
** dev (untested update from repo)
** pre-production (testing with selected users)
** production (stable)

* snapshot of the ubuntu mirror
* stable/testing/unstable

* new system with reprepo (got some limitations)
* Ability to inject your own packages
** split the problem into miror with stagging area
    and internal repository
* integrate with e.g. debmirror (whitelist/blacklist)
* e.g. internal version of cups, that requires blacklisting
   of the ubuntu cups package
* whitelist useful additions from e.g. hardy-backports that is
   not generally available
* ability to show only a subset of the archive to the internal users

=== ideas ===
* use apache/squid and use ACLs for the filtering and use a seperate repository
   to inject internal packages

=== problems ===
* make sure the dependencies are always consistent

=== use cases ===
* stagging area (stable/testing/unstable) for e.g. hardy, hardy-security
** two approaches 
*** "snapshot of the entire archive at a certain date" 
*** "individual packages"
* show only a subset of the packages

=== actions ===
* we need a official way to deal with the above scenario
* a CLI is sufficient because the target user is a admin
* a web UI is cool

=== how to get the updates ===
* landscape
* homegrown
* cron job - nightly "apt-get dist-upgrade" with --force options for dpkg
** problematic error handling (e.g. when TERM is not set)
* update check in ifup.d 
* -> we need a common system that is based on a auto-update mechanism

----
CategorySpec
