{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''No meeting held this week.'''

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Ubuntu 9.04 release!
* Started working through NewReleaseCycleProcess, with Scott.
* Merged: base-files, devscripts, lintian, ubuntu-policy, libdebian-installer, choose-mirror
* Synced: debian-policy (ironically, turned out to fail to build due to  a missing build-dependency; working on this with my upstream hat)

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Started working on usb-creator specifications for UDS Karmic.
* Started looking into a ctypes win32 backend to usb-creator.
* Fixed some low hanging fruit in the form of a few low priority ubiquity bugs.
* Spoke with bdilly about his usb-creator patch. Was told he'd put it in a public branch so I could merge it.  Will follow up later in the week.
* Packaged parti-all and uploaded to my PPA.

==== James Westby ====

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Luke Yelavich ====

==== Matthias Klose ====
* karmic toolchain opening
* gcc-4.4 was released, so open karmic with it
* gcj updates for hppa
* contribute openjdk local changes to IcedTea
* upstream python2.7 and python3.1 configuration changes
* armel image testing for jaunty
* upstream small binutils/GCC-4.4 local changes
* initiate jaunty test rebuild with karmic toolchain.

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== jaunty release =====
* Add SRU test-cases to the jaunty-proposed update-manager upload  
* Add SRU instructions for packagekit error (#257639) and upload new version to jaunty-proposed  
* Update meta-release for jaunty final and activate it
* Sru for synaptic (#365151) for the apt-xapian-index update
* Add release notes for unneede guidance-power-manager 
* Update-manager SRU (to fix/workaround upgrade problem we discovered late)
* Compiz-fusion-plugins-unsupported sru (#349201)  

===== upgrades =====
* lots of update-manager/post-release bug triage
* Create update-manager/jaunty branch and start karmic development in update-manager/main 
* Debug apt-cacher releated sources.list rewrite problem with pmautilus 
* Debug python upgrade problem with pymol 
* Debug upgrade calculation failure with libkipi0/libkipi6 (#365840) 
* Fix pmm to actually compile/install (#365995)
* Fix softflowd install failure (#365928)  
* Fix crash in update-manager with partial upgrades (#366048)   
* Refactor quirks hanlding code (in post-jaunty branch) 
* Debug/fix incorrect free space calculation in u-m (#365623)  
* Fix file overwrite error in opencity (#365619)    
* When rewriting sources.list in update-manager, remove cdrom entries with no lists files 
* Work on better sources.list rewrite for apt-cache/apt-p2p uris (#367002)
* Update-manager karmic upload
* Debug/fix langauge-selector quote problem (#241904)

===== apt =====
* Work on apt hash problme with turkish locales (#80248)
* Fix g++-4.4 build failures in apt   
* Look into better segfault/coredump handling for jaunty in apt-term.log 
* Add dmesg log to apt apport pkg failures (to get info about segfaults too) 
* Look into auto tagging for dpkg file overwrite problems (#368435) (need support from dpkg)

===== misc =====
* Debug indicator-applet problem (#349237) 
* Debug/fix notification-daemon crash (#131227)
* Debug/diagnose the synaptic problem (#365129) with conffile detection
* Debug/fix problem that apturl sometimes skipps adding sections (if it knowns about the package already) 
* Fix apturl to support proper url synatax  
* Work with asac on workaround for #363798  
* Organize 1-to-1 meeting with Muharem  

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor brasero (#361224)           
* Review/sponsor gnome-terminal upload       
* Review/sponsor gnome-terminal karmic upload   

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* managed a release, with the help of a very persistent and dedicated team \o/
* sleep a bit (i.e., took Release Friday off)
* help with opening the archive for karmic

==== Packages ====
* sync coreutils (dropping Ubuntu diff)
* merge ntp

==== Misc ====
* post-release email catch-up, trying to sweep up all non-release-critical threads that were deferred
