{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* You - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

<pre>
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'csurbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
</pre>

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27462|ubuntu-10.10 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

* short week due to holidays/illness
* bug 627654 investigation
* landed pep 3149 upstream
* gtimelog update and packaging

==== Colin Watson ====

===== 2010-08-23 - 2010-08-27 =====

* Backported fix for bogus warning messages from dpkg upstream (#619135).
* GRUB 2:
** Reverted to gfxpayload=text (#605614, #608429, #612626).
* CD boot menu changes requested by Kubuntu team (#608746).
* foundations-m-uefi-support:
** New grub-rescue-efi-amd64 package (possibly temporary).
** Ported cdrkit patch from Fedora to add -efi-boot option.
** Added GRUB EFI configuration to debian-installer and debian-cd on amd64, making those images multi-catalog.
* Added busybox cross-compiling support (#623392).
* Reviewed Upstart patches from server team.
* A few bits and pieces from foundations-m-spring-cleaning.
* Merged: grub2, debian-installer-utils

===== 2010-08-31 - 2010-09-03 =====

* Archive cleanup work for beta (openoffice.org-voikko installability, sash functionality on amd64, and lots of archive-side work).
* Fixed Wubi, which was trying to run conditionals using GRUB's rescue parser rather than its normal parser (#600578, #617715).
* Fixed oem-config KDE frontend crash (#627549).
* Worked around apt-cdrom madness on writable USB sticks (#627672).
* Did a good chunk of the release management work for beta, in consultation with Kate and Robbie.
* foundations-m-uefi-support:
** Stopped grub-installer asking for a boot device on UEFI.
** Fixed partitioning code to mount the first method=efi partition on /boot/efi.
** Still trying to get my test machine to boot a 64-bit kernel, but no luck as yet.  Will wait for serial console hardware instead.
* Suppressed verbose debugging messages in webkit (cherry-pick from Debian).
* Merged: grub-installer, partman-efi, usb-discover (#627004)

==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== apt =====
* debug ssl timeout failure with donkult 
* fix missing apport report writing (thanks to mdz)
* forward aptitude patch for FTBFS to upstream
* merge fixes from debian-sid, upload new verison

===== software-center =====
* lots of branch review/merges
* aptdaemon: merge/upload new bzr snapshot
* branch merges, fixes in "what's new", "featured" display
* fix crash in local checkouts
* implement the "find it at" part of the spec
* workon/test buy-something
* work on the addons branch, add tests, debug logic 
 
===== software-properties =====
* review/merge and471 gtkbuildre branch
* review/merge gtkbuilder-and-gui-polish branc

===== update-manager =====
* debug/fix crash in doPostUpgrade (#618597)
* fix label wraping for label_downsize
* remove the extra "demoted" dialog, move into main confirm dialog
* use treeview for the details (in gtk)  
* fix #624894 and upload to maverick
* work lucid->lucid-updates upgrade profile

===== misc =====
* App-install-data update
* Command-not-found data update  
* Gdebi: merge debian branch/upload
* Policykit: add session-auto-restart support for the agent 
* Travel preparing 
* Update-notifier: merge xdg patches from Sebastian Geige 
* Work with kamstrup on s-c & unity integration 

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Surbhi Palande ====

* Investigated kernel boot up code, initramfs, udev and mdadm - to figure out the Raid Bringup

* Finding out what the requirements are to make the initramfs event based for bringing up RAID. (In the coming weeks, shall look at how this could possibly be done)

* Worked on bug 628400. Shall send a sponsorship request soon.
