{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* ColinWatson - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* LoïcMinier
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek

=== Apologies ===

* MatthiasKlose - on leave

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks, especially feature freeze status
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
** mvo to add Bug:506709 to sprint agenda
* Possible feature freeze problems
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21445|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* Reminder for release meeting, if due this week
* AOB

=== Lightning Round ===

==== Steve Langasek ====

* fighting with plymouth, everyone can reproduce the bugs except me
* help wanted... :)

==== Michael Vogt ====

* software-center missing feature, ratings&reviews
* upgrade tester (added stepmaker profiles for gui upgrade, that is pure love)
* tie up loose ends from the sprint
* fighting jetlag

==== Loïc Minier ====

Lots of work on linux/versatile; worked on a bunch of ARM/qemu issues as well; some minor work on pycentral/pysupport tools.

==== James Westby ====

working on the bzr importer and putting features in to bzr-builddeb before next week. Not blocked on anything.

==== Gary Lasker ====

I've been working on presentation of individual software sources in Software Center.  Some finish work still to do there.

Next up is back/forward navigation in the top level "Get Software" section.

Hopefully other work items as time allows before feature freeze.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

trying to untangle a debconf bug in casper, looking into a kde oem-config bug, looking into a bug in ubiquity/console-setup whereby it's not selecting the right keyboard map, and polishing up and testing my ubiquity conversion to plugins branch in preparation for merging.

==== Barry Warsaw ====

Sprinting. Computer Janitor refactoring; dbus service and cli completed.  Will be working on updating the gtk ui next. Research on Launchpad Answers application for use by ratings-and-reviews.  Submitted preliminary branch for review.  That was approved so will land that today.  Began work on next Launchpad branch in support of ratings-and-reviews in Software Center.  Will have pre-imp discussion with Curtis on that today and should have branch ready for review by EOW.  Updated PEP 3147 for supporting multiple installed Python versions.  Pycon 2010 prep.

==== Colin Watson ====

* done: finished grub device-id work, at last; network initramfs issues for iscsi-root; other bits and pieces
* blocked: live CD greeter from DX for foundations-lucid-gfxboot-update, but I talked with bratsche at the sprint so this is at least moving
* todo: big dpkg merge once bzr-builddeb can handle .tar.bz2; debconf-dbus, still under discussion on packagekit list

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

* mvo to add Bug:506709 to sprint agenda
** milestoned, so won't get lost; will talk to slangasek and/or Keybuk out of band

=== Possible feature freeze problems ===

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-raid-in-ubiquity-for-desktop-install - medium priority, running out of time, may need to defer
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-btrfs-support - low priority, expecting to defer
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-jockey-support-in-ubiquity - medium priority, expecting to defer
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-center-repository-based-index - may not make it, in which case we'll need a client-side workaround, or external PPAs won't get to benefit from icons
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-distributed-development - various useful bzr features won't land in the next week, but perhaps not for lucid anyway

=== Chair for next meeting ===

* ScottJamesRemnant

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

* Sprinting.
* Computer Janitor refactoring; dbus service and cli completed.  Will be working on updating the gtk ui next.
* Research on Launchpad Answers application for use by ratings-and-reviews.  Submitted preliminary branch for review.  That was approved so will land that today.
* Began work on next Launchpad branch in support of ratings-and-reviews in Software Center.  Will have pre-imp discussion with Curtis on that today and should have branch ready for review by EOW.
* Updated PEP 3147 for supporting multiple installed Python versions.
* Pycon 2010 prep.

==== Colin Watson ====
Lucid sprint.

* foundations-lucid-reliable-device-id-in-grub:
** More DM-RAID probing fixes.
** Finished and landed.  One or two problems so far, but nothing too major.

* foundations-lucid-fix-iscsi-root:
** Fixed initramfs network problems.
** Discussed test plan with Ara (QA).
** One nasty bug remains, that will probably need another installer dialog or something along the lines of nobootloader to fix.

* foundations-lucid-gfxboot-update:
** Discussed greeter requirements with Cody (DX).

* foundations-lucid-dynamic-cdrom-handling:
** Handle new details of media-change requests in apt-setup.
** Stop adding /cdrom to /etc/fstab, finishing this thanks to Michael's work.  Whee!

* casper/debconf optimisations, with Jamie (mobile).  Shaved about a third off the boot-to-X time, which is particularly noticeable on armel.

* Various seed discussions, mainly with server team.

* Miscellaneous bug-fixes:
** Fix list-devices regression from dmraid probing work (#514595).
** Stop checking ext2 filesystems using libparted (#517349).
** Intel AES-NI support in OpenSSL (#485518).

* Merged: dpkg-cross

* DMB meeting (chaired).

==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== Gary Lasker ====

* Platform Sprint in Portland
* Work on presentation of individual software sources in Software Center
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#channels
* Some bug fixes in Software Center
* Bug triage session with mvo
* Lots of misc sprint activities
* Next: Back/Forward navigation in the top-level "Get Software" section
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SoftwareCenter#get-software-navigation

==== James Westby ====

===== Distributed Development =====

* Spent the sprint talking with lots of people about this, both getting feedback and discussing ways to help them achieve what they want. Lots of good ideas came out of it and I am working on some of them now.
* Fixed conflicts in the importer to be more useful:
** It now doesn't crash after every conflict it detects, meaning that a conflict doesn't stop development.
** It's a little more robust against false-positives too.
** It now files merge proposals for conflicts, meaning that we get the diff inline which makes it more obvious, and will also integrate better with our workflow in future.

* I fixed some issues that made it difficult to go from a branch of upstream to using merge-upstream on it. With a bit of coaching Scott and Didier did this and liked the result. I put some code in to make it easier for the next people to do it.

* Discussions with Rob about looms and how much work would be involved in switching to them.
** Realised that having the .dsc tell you the revision id that the package was built from will make it easier to transition, so I will work on that.

==== Loïc Minier ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Release management =====
* release of Ubuntu 8.04.4
* fix livecd-rootfs to let edubuntu build from universe

===== Packages =====
* cryptsetup: fix the package to actually trigger inclusion of plymouth in initramfs; and fix bug #468228.
* move libpng to /lib since plymouth relies on it
* plymouth: try to fix plymouth so we can start it post-initramfs again
* analyze samba migration to upstart - file bug on upstart because the job condition semantics are insufficient
* syncs: cln, m17n-lib
* merges: gnome-sharp2, cloop
* merge new upstream version of pam (bug #513955), and fix bug #356766
* work on plymouth/gdm integration

===== Sponsorship =====
* acpid (bug #508073)

===== Specs =====
* foundations-lucid-upstart-server-review:
** update ifenslave-2.6 examples to not recommend configurations that won't work on Ubuntu
** draft release note regarding bonding/bridging handling in karmic
** upload ifupdown and bridge-utils to support bringing up bridge interfaces via udev+upstart.

===== Misc =====
* archive admin duties x2
* work with server team on eucalyptus upstart issues
* many other sprint things
