{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* ScottJamesRemnant
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* MichaelVogt
* SteveLangasek - chair
* ColinWatson
* BarryWarsaw
 
 
=== Apologies ===
 
* MatthiasKlose - vacation
* Lo√ØcMinier - meeting conflict

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21446|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* Reminder for release meeting, if due this week
* AOB

=== Lightning Round ===

==== Scott James Remnant ====

Battling with the kernel VT layer, Plymouth has swapped sides at least twice but I think it's on our side now and we're winning.
It's truly amazing the number of invalid states you can put the kernel in

==== Gary Lasker ====

Back/forward navigation history feature for Software Center is landed, woo!
Refactored PPAs/channel view code, it's cleaner and much easier to use.
Added partner channel support in channel views.
Fixed lots of bugs this week, emphasis on bugfixes needed before UI freeze.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

fixing language page when in oem-config mode, moving intro page contents into the language page (and making translatable), fixing a bug in usb-creator thats breaking bootloader installation, hunting down a bug in the slideshow/webkit (hitting a security check in the latest webkit), removing the partition page progress dialogs per discussion in 336751, adding a progress message for wiping swap in the installer when using encrypted home
blocked on legal for the restricted-extras page.

==== Michael Vogt ====

worked on software-center (plus django rnr-server), update-manager and upgrade testing, some a3 data updates (like command-not-found, app-install-data)
 
==== James Westby ====

Tackling bzr-builddeb and import failures, and working with LP on building from branches directly. Going to be working on getting all my code in Ubuntu ready for release.

==== Steve Langasek ====

following through on the team merge for ubuntu-release and motu-release this week
opportunistically converting the Debian Samba team to be bzr fans
working on getting casper to talk to plymouth

==== Colin Watson ====

done: landed rest of foundations-lucid-gfxboot-update; landed parted 2.1; playing with 3.0 (quilt) source format, mostly liking it; made grub-probe filesystem queries about 10 times faster
blocked: nothing
todo: take advantage of parted 2.1 to set up proper partition alignment; get back to beating on the kernel for console-setup/upstart

==== Barry Warsaw ====

Returned from Pycon on Friday.  Worked on Ratings and Reviews server; soon to have another branch for merging.  Completed second and third drafts of PEP 3147 (PYC Repository Directories); probably ready for BDFL pronouncement and implementation.  Released Python 2.6.5rc1.  Not blocked.

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

None.

=== Feature freeze exceptions ===

Notes from previous weeks:
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-raid-in-ubiquity-for-desktop-install - medium priority, running out of time, may need to defer
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-btrfs-support - low priority, expecting to defer
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-jockey-support-in-ubiquity - medium priority, expecting to defer
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-center-repository-based-index - may not make it, in which case we'll need a client-side workaround, or external PPAs won't get to benefit from icons
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-distributed-development - various useful bzr features won't land in the next week, but perhaps not for lucid anyway
* <james_w> I'll probably realise that were are in dire need of a new bzr-builddeb feature in about 24 hours :-)
* <ev> I might need some for things design want, but nothing specific yet
* <Keybuk> I may end up with a couple of small ones for extra tenths of second
* <tremolux> one small feature, back/forward navigation: UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-software-center-ui-improvements
* <ev> I may have one, for adding functionality to the installer to download and install ubuntu-restricted-extras (including running the decss script), as mentioned in the lightning round
* <james_w> I probably have minor one for bzr-builddeb for something that is probably a feature, even though it fixes a bug :-)

This week:
* <mvo> I will add one for the new python-apt and for ratings&reviews
* <cjwatson> both of my freeze exceptions from last week are done
* <cjwatson> I actually want to upgrade to parted 2.2, but I think that's essentially a bug-fix release - the only "new feature" in NEWS is more appropriately classified as a bug fix IMO :-)
* <cjwatson> (sane default alignment instead of NULL when disk topology info is incomplete)

=== Chair for next meeting ===

* Barry Warsaw

=== Activity reports ===

==== Scott James Remnant ====

* In bed with Flu monday/tuesday :-(
* Fixed the rsyslog 100% CPU issue; due to the design of rsyslogd it wasn't possible to have it refuse to drop permissions, instead I had to make it disable the klog plugin if a zero-byte read() returned -EPERM
* Patched Upstart to mount /proc and /sys itself on boot, solving all the annoying issues where things like mountall and ureadahead need it
* usb-modeswitch discussion
* Helping OEM team out with issues related to Plymouth
* Been working on Plymouth's VT issues, and trying to understand the complex interplay between the X server and Plymouth (which both use KD_GRAPHICS and VT_PROCESS).  I understand now, and it's a SMOP (which I'm going to have to do)

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Short week; travel on Monday and Tuesday morning from Pycon.
* Fixed LP: #527932, #524827, #526581, and some more ubiquity bugs.
* More work on new installer design automatic partitioner widgets.
* Moved the slideshow translation code to po4a as html2po is no longer provided in Debian.
* Changed the packaging of the slideshow so that each installer slideshow package provides ubiquity-slideshow and also conflicts and replaces on it, allowing only one installer slideshow package installed at once.  Moved all slideshow files to /usr/share/ubiquity-slideshow and updated ubiquity to reflect this. This allows derivatives to create their own slideshows without us having to hard code their paths in ubiquity.
* Updated slideshow translations, pruned a suspicious URL (LP: #528465), released a new slideshow package, and updated all interested parties on the aforementioned changes.

==== Colin Watson ====

* Another fix for gfxboot handling of Hebrew (#212491).
* foundations-lucid-gfxboot-update:
** Merged Cody's language selector for ubiquity-greeter-gtk, and dealt with integration.
* Switched to automatic LP git import of packages-arch-specific.
* Did most of the migration to parted 2.1.  One or two pieces remain.
* Fixed up grub2 integration in memtest86+ (#435153).
* Fixed desktop icon handling in example-content (#458250).
* Tackled most of #526422 ("Grub installer asks too many questions to the user", actually a messy image assembly problem).
* Tried to stop update-notifier from popping up during the live session.  I think I mostly managed it, although Dave Morley still reports some problems.
* Fixed corrupted text display in d-i (#526391).
* Various other bits of installer bug firefighting for alpha-3, e.g. migration-assistant ordering (#524993), a regression from the plugin migration (#524169), a crash on non-resizable partitions (#527057), and some KDE frontend fixes (#527457, #527468).
* TB meeting.
* Merged: debhelper

==== James Westby ====

===== Distributed Development =====

* More debugging of failures from the importer. Lots more packages that people care about are now imported.
* Fixed a couple of bugs in bzr-builddeb.
* Wrote some specs for LP developers to review concerning bzr-builder recipes that will allow them to implement something good based on them in LP. Positive feedback on my first drafts from them.

===== Other =====

* Archive admin duty
* Sponsoring

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== software-center =====
* review/merge lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/lp496058 (many thanks!)
* debug/fix aptdaemon backend interaction
* fix update progress reporting (#514861)
* setup doc translation infrastrcutre based on po4a (#439353)
* work on a11y (#526384)
* ubuntu-sso research
* add a bunch of rnr-server tests
* use SlugFields more in rnr-server
* add test for moderation feature
* work on package verification in reviews django app
* add report_abuse code and write tests for it
* work on moderation code in the rnr-server
* discuss with nzmm clever ways to overcome the treeview slowness
* fix crash in AnimatedImage
* work on lp:~mvo/s-c/fastapp
* atk.Component stub implementation
* report-inappropriate client feature
* make report-abuse work (client + server)

===== update-manager =====
* automatically create diff on conffile prompt
* fail the test if conffile prompts are found
* Work on auto-upgrader tester setup on pommerac
* fix crash when /home is not present
* fixes: #463506, #518856, fix in component-inconsitency detection

===== alpha-3 =====
* Run app-install-data/command-not-found data extraction
* Command-not-found data update/upload
* App-install-data update
* Karmic->lucid manual testing - ask if that can moved to QA
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UpgradeTestingProcess, result
   http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/result/3635/46

===== misc =====
* Synaptic merges (from jibell)
* fix backgrounding problem (#486222)

===== sponsoring =====
* Review ubumirror changes

==== Barry Warsaw ====

This week, after returning from Pycon, I worked on the ratings and reviews Django server for Software Center.  I also worked on PEP 3147 (PYC Repository Directories) which is almost ready for BDFL pronouncement, followed by implementation work.  I also released Python 2.6.5rc1, with a final release slated for March 15.

==== Matthias Klose ====

* PyCon sprints, will followup later
* llvm/clang updates, will follow up with upstream updates until the 2.7 release after getting a freeze exception.
* eglibc, gdb, oprofile, newlib merges
* GCC update for ARM.

==== Gary Lasker ====

* Concentrated on bug fixes/bug triage for software-center this week
** Fixed alpha-3 targeted bugs LP: #496058 and LP: #523420
** Fixed ten or so other bugs, a couple with many duplicates
* OEM tasks
* OEM, Foundations team weekly meetings
* Next week:  Finish up back/forward navigation feature, continue bug work

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Release management =====
* alpha 3
** metapackage, d-i uploads

===== Specs =====
* finish UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-laptop-mode-tools-integration

===== Packages =====
* nfs-utils: start on new 'mounting' signal instead of obsolete 'mount' signal;
but this seems to have gone wrong and may need reverted
* slang2: drop a non-main build-dep
* samba: transition to upstart to finally fix Bug:523868
* liblog-log4perl-perl: drop unneeded build-deps from universe, so this can be MIRed easily
* ifupdown: SRU to close out Bug:497299
* initramfs-tools: fix hibernate support (Bug:499940)

===== Misc =====
* archive admin duties
