{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* LukeYelavich
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Jaunty (Alpha 3 release '''tomorrow - Jan 15''')
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/Foundations/9.04|Feature Status]]</nowiki> (internal link)
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=2211|Alpha 3 bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/ogasawara/jaunty-buglist.html| Jaunty Buglist]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+bugs|LP Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* 8.04.2 LTS Release '''(Jan 22)'''
** Summary of changes for the 8.04.2 LTS update
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=1425|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/WritingObjectives|Objectives Guidance]]</nowiki> (internal link)
* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/features/ec2|Amazon EC2 usage]]</nowiki>
* Good News
* AOB

=== Actions from this meeting ===
* Robbie to add information about "pet bugs" to internal /QA/BugFixing/TeamBugLists wiki. - '''Done'''
* Colin to deliver 8.04.2 manifest by the end of the week.

=== Activity reports ===
==== Colin Watson ====
* Updated tasksel for Steve Kowalik's mobile changes.

* Merged: dpkg, vim (fixing #296324).

* Analysis of linux/ubiquity/update-manager #314004; fixed ubiquity side.

* Added ext4 support to the installer:
** partman-ext3 extensions to support ext4, committed upstream.
** parted work to permit the above (sent upstream as http://parted.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/trac.cgi/ticket/188).
** Minor adjustments to iso-scan, os-prober, partconf, partman-auto,partman-partitioning, and rescue, all committed upstream.
** Backported upstream patch to klibc (#309762).
** Added mkfs.ext4 symlink to e2fsprogs-udeb (Debian #511207).

* Fixed apt-setup #314462 (-backports lines in sources.list don't honour "free software only" option).

* Fixed mobile seeds to stop crashing germinate.

* apt-setup bug fixes (#256098, #294365).

* Ported pcmciautils to udev 136.

* Fixed support for my 3G modem (though some problems to resolve before
   it can be merged):
** https://lists.one-eyed-alien.net/pipermail/usb-storage/2009-January/004499.html
** http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/hal/2009-January/012783.html

* Adjusted and ran Celso's script to import old package removal data into Launchpad (#159585).

* Fixed debootstrap --second-stage failure reported by Michael Casadevall.

* Started watching archive-reorganisation UDS videos (not finished yet).

* Didn't really get round to the sponsorship queue this week.  :-( ichthux-meta #289741 was all I managed.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Followed up with Artwork team about slideshow work.
* Added encrypted home directory support to ubiquity.
* Fixed the remaining bug preventing the manual partitioner from working in ubiquity since the new partman landed.
* Tried my hand at upgrading ia32-libs after I ran into 273693 upon upgrading to Jaunty.  Still trying to get this right, but appear to be on the cusp.
* Set up a Windows 7 beta environment for testing Wubi and in the future usb-creator and migration-assistant development.
* Tried merging and updating the seeds in slangasek's absence, but there were no changes to the seeds that needed an upload.
* Tried to work out the correct options for dpkg/apt to get gnome-app-install to look at a different root directory, so that we can embed g-a-i in usb-creator for adding and removing packages from the squashfs.  Sent an email to mvo, but poking around the code in parallel.
* Hacking together a python WrapLabel class based off the one from libview to hopefully work around a long standing GTK bug.
* Started looking into copying out the kernel and initramfs when running from a USB disk.

==== James Westby ====
* Distributed Development
** Trying to prioritise and plan work for this cycle, no spec yet, but that will be my task this week.

* Ubuntu
** Bug fixing, sponsoring, build fixing, bug triage etc., getting back in to the swing of things again.
** Figuring out how to find bugs that should go on the team bug list for Jaunty.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====
~+Done this week:+~
* Back from vacation. Processed e-mail backlog.
* Finished inventing my PDR objectives for this cycle.
* Finished https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/Specs/JauntyCruftRemover(I hope).
* Looked at bleachbit, found by Michael Vogt, which does somethings Cruft Remover should eventually do, too.
* Attempted to make a jaunty virtual machine for me to play in, without complete success: upgrading works, after removing openoffice.org-voikko, see #316754, but X does not work. (Had some networking problems too, since the MAC changed, and udev's persistence management named the new one eth1.)
* I'm basing the jaunty VM on an intrepid VM, and creating it using virt-clone. Wrote http://liw.fi/rename-host/ to help me remember what to change when renaming a host.
* Reported #316775 (virt-clone should update <graphics port='xxx'/>).
* Helped a new developer on IRC to debug a build problem with their new package.

~+Plans for the coming week:+~
* Prepare a new system-cleanear package for upload, with a new (final!) name: Computer Janitor, unless someone comes up with something better. Also, write the three new plugins, and start the integration with update-manager sources.
* Ask system-cleaner to be installed by default in jaunty, so we can shake out any bugs as early as possible.
* Make piuparts work on Ubuntu out of the box again, at least when run on intrepid (and jaunty, if I can get a working jaunty VM).

==== Luke Yelavich ====
* Accessibility
** Started preparing a new upstream release of espeak for upload after alpha 3 releases.
* Audio
** Audio bug triaging.
** Checked Fedora's PortAudio v19 package for a patch to make it play nice with pulseaudio. Included this patch in our portaudio 19 package, and uploaded.
** Uploaded new revision of PulseAudio with many fixes from git, thanks to Daniel Chen for his help.
** Prepared pulseaudio 0.9.14 for upload right after alpha 3 releases.
* dmraid 
** Attempted to update the dmraid kernel module, but found that it froze the virtual machine I used for testing when attempting to load it. Will leave the dmraid kernel module as the forward ported version for now, as it seems to work ok.
** Thought that dmraid latest upstream was broken due to it not recognising metadata from the BIOS on a motherboard I have, but after updating the dmraid package with new fixes from Debian,everything worked as it should.
** Updated dmraid package with new revisions from debian.
* Misc 
** Replied to Michael Casadevall's core-dev application.
** Installed jaunty, hoping to use it day to day for easier testing.
 
==== Matthias Klose ====
* toolchain updates
** update binutils to the 2.19 branch
** merge glibc with Debian
** gc[cj]-4.[23] updates for jaunty and intrepid
** backport GCC fixes for wrong-code issues to the 4.3 branch.
* IcedTea build fixes
* OpenJDK updates for jaunty, prepare updates for intrepid and hardy
* acpica-unix, opie, ggz-server updates (ARM build failures), arm status.
* write MIR's for packages not building in main due to component mismatches
* release manager duties for alpha-3 on Friday.
* python packaging updates (for upload after alpha-3).
* not too much bug triage.

==== Michael Vogt ====
* update-manager 
** make the upgrade experience for EOL releases better (for releases that moved from archive.u.c to old-releases.u.c) by auto transition from old-releases.u.c to archive.u.c (or a mirror) if needed (this is auto detected)
** work on a the aufs branch
** help ahasenbeg with seting up the auto upgrade tester on his box
** Work on lilo removal on intrepid->jaunty upgrades in u-m (#314004)
** Upload new update-manager that includes the update-manager-text interface 
** Debug upgrade issue to alpha-3 with liw (#316754)
** work on the auto upgrade tester for alpha-3
** kvm in jaunty (both -79 and -82 from the PPA) freeze under jaunty after some time. this makes testing difficult
** moved the test to my laptop that runs intrepid for now (not ideal)
** need to evaluate xen/ec2 port
* i18n 
** gdebi i18n fixes
** synaptic i18n updates/fixes
** apt i18n fixes (from sianis)
** unattended-upgrades i18n merges
** learned that rosetta does not keep pot files up2date automatically
** update-manager i18n review/update (POTFILES.in)
* jaunty-codec-install spec 
** port the bbc totem plugin to the new codec install mechanism
** discuss performance issues with slomo/tim
** add checks for successfull package installation
** some cleanups
** fix the performance issues in the totem plugin and upload
** switch Details view from GtkLabel to a subclass of GtkTextView
** upload/sync gnome-codec-install into jaunty
* alpha-3 
** app-install-data review/update
** command-not-found-data review/update
* python-apt 
** Merge python-apt fix for candidateInstalledSize/aptsources code
** update the mirror list (from LP)
** review/merge big patch from debian (jak) that adds a whole lot of documentation (yeah!)
* misc 
** mail 
** bug triage
** Merge software-properties fix from pochu
** Work on apturl, bug triage, patch review/applying, upload
** Popcon server maintainace
** fix/forward to upstream trivial bugfix in live-magic
** reproduce/forward libcompizconfig bug with the desktop integration and alt handling  
** play a bit with xkit
* specs 
** finish to put my specs into Review state
** review JauntyCruftRemover and sent feedback
* sponsoring 
** review/sponsor totem/totem-pl-parser update
** Review/sponsoring scim
** review/sponsor vte
** review/sponsor metacity (but dholbach was one minute quicker)

==== Scott James Remnant ====
* udev 
** Updated watershed to install itself into the initramfs
** After uploading udev 136, I set about making sure all packages that ship udev rules install to /lib/udev/rules.d and include Breaks on udev to force an upgrade.
** Uploads to: alsa-toosl, alsa-utils, avarice, barry-util, bitpim, bluez, boinc, brltty, comedilib, cpad-kernel, edac-utils, etoken-pro-support, foo2zjs, fuse-utils, garmin-forerunner-tools,gpsd, hal, hama-slide-mouse-control, hdapsd, hdparm, hplip,ifplugd, ifupdown, kino, kqemu-source, kvm, libchipcard-tools, libdjconsole-data, libdlm3, libfprint0, libgphoto2-2, libgpib-bin, libibverbs1, libmtp8, libnjb5, libsane, libsane-extras, libticales2-1, libvpb0, libxenomai1, linux-wlan-ng, lirc, lomoco, madfuload, mga-vid-common, midisupport-firmware, mouseemu, mt-st, multipath-tools, mythtv-backend, nut, nut-hal-drivers, openct, rt73-common, selinux-basics, speechd-up, spectools, trousers, tucnak2, usbmount, util-linux, vzctl, x52pro, xen-utils-3.3, zaptel
** Rebuilt uswsusp to shed libvolumeid0 dependency
** Fixed issues with lvm2, mdadm and dmsetup
** Packaged udev-extras
** Fixed udev package to remove additional conffiles left over from previous versions
** Updated saned to drop the scanner group completely.
* Misc 
** Trying to get RPM to build

==== Steve Langasek ====
* Release management 
** 8.04.2 preparations
** SRU processing for 8.04.2
** fix up oversized alternate CDs by dropping more langpacks  :( 
** phone call w/ QA to discuss remaining SRUs
** Jaunty alpha-3 preparations
** chase down OOo bloat
** rebuild reverse-deps for libgnome-desktop-2-11 transition (NBS cleanup)
** start rebuild of libmagick10 reverse-deps, saving 2.1MB on the CDs
* Packages 
** follow through on pam-config-framework (LP: #275169)
** merge the latest pam from Debian (fixes LP: #256238)
** sponsor apport/pm-utils changes that let apport report on suspend/resume failures
* Misc 
** Monday archive duties
