{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:foundations-p-python-versions
* '''Created''': BarryWarsaw
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''':

=== Summary ===

'''This project has been fast-forwarded into Precise so the page is a bit out of date.  It will be updated after UDS-P.'''

Python 2.7 is the last in the Python 2 series.  It will be released during the
Maverick cycle.  Python 3 is the future.  We need to plan out our roadmap for
future Python support in Ubuntu.  Questions to answer:

* Should both 2.6 and 2.7 be available in M?
* Should 2.7 be the default Python for M?
* When should we target Python 3 as the default Python?
* What is the minimum that needs to be done to switch to Python 3?
* Do we have an automated test system to experiment with alternative Python versions?
* What major packages do we require and how far along are they in migrating to 3?
* What can we do to push things forward?
* How does this align with Debian strategy?

=== Release Note ===

Python < 2.6 support was dropped in Lucid.  How did that go?  Do users want more stability (arguing to keep 2.6 as default) or do they want the long-term latest Python 2 version (arguing to switch to 2.7)?

Python 3.1 is available in main.  3.2 will not be available during M cycle.  Switching to Python 3 will have a major impact on users, and the software they use, develop, and support.  Not all dependent packages will be ported to Python 3.  Can we leverage and/or backport <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3147/|PEP 3147]]</nowiki> to support multiple versions of Python at the same time?

* <nowiki>[[http://arstechnica.com/open-source/reviews/2010/04/python-support-in-gnome-gets-a-boost-from-hackfest.ars|Python 3 in Gnome]]</nowiki>

=== Rationale ===

Switching to Python 3 is inevitable, unless we commit to supporting Python 2 ourselves forever.

=== User stories ===

=== Assumptions ===

=== Design ===

You can have subsections that better describe specific parts of the issue.

=== Implementation ===

This section should describe a plan of action (the "how") to implement the changes discussed. Could include subsections like:

==== UI Changes ====

Should cover changes required to the UI, or specific UI that is required to implement this

==== Code Changes ====

Code changes should include an overview of what needs to change, and in some cases even the specific details.

==== Migration ====

Include:
* data migration, if any
* redirects from old URLs to new ones, if any
* how users will be pointed to the new way of doing things, if necessary.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

It's important that we are able to test new features, and demonstrate them to users.  Use this section to describe a short plan that anybody can follow that demonstrates the feature is working.  This can then be used during testing, and to show off after release. Please add an entry to http://testcases.qa.ubuntu.com/Coverage/NewFeatures for tracking test coverage.

This need not be added or completed until the specification is nearing beta.

=== Unresolved issues ===

This should highlight any issues that should be addressed in further specifications, and not problems with the specification itself; since any specification with problems cannot be approved.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

Use this section to take notes during the BoF; if you keep it in the approved spec, use it for summarising what was discussed and note any options that were rejected.

----
CategorySpec
