{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Present ===

* MichaelVogt - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

{{{#!python
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'surbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
}}}

=== Apologies ===

* keybuk, ev - vacation

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27560|alpha-2 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== barry ====

===== foundations-m-python-versions =====

* virtual machine hacking (vmbuilder, kvm, libvirt)
* bug 589227 (2.6.32-22.35 breaks kvm)
* building out the py27 ppa stack (ppa:barry/py27stack)

===== foundations-m-continuous-integration =====

* email discussions
* package tests

==== mvo ====
* alpha1: app-install-data update, command-not-found update
* gnome-codec-install: add aptdaemon backend
* a bunch of debian merges
* software-center: SRU for 2.0.5
* update-manager: fix threading hang, switch to aptdaemon backend, SRU, use inline progress

==== cjwatson ====

* Removed dtmenu.cfg from default d-i menu.cfg; it isn't used in Ubuntu and it confuses gfxboot-theme-ubuntu (#588221).

* Finished upgrading Debian grub2 to a current snapshot.

* foundations-m-btrfs-support:
** Landed the grub2 btrfs-probe branch upstream.

* Fixed support-escalated cdrom-detect #586036 (d-i prompts for CD-ROM drivers when preseeding from USB drive).

* foundations-m-spring-cleaning:
** Removed tasksel and aptitude from the base system.

* GRUB 2:
** Substantial documentation work.  The info manual is still incomplete in parts but is much more useful now; in particular, I documented all the options available for use in /etc/default/grub.
** Fixed serious breakage with incorrect partmap module names generated by grub-mkconfig.
** Minor bug fixes.
