{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PlatformTeam.

=== Present ===

*** BryceHarrington
*** ChrisCheney
*** ColinWatson
*** JamesWestby
*** LarsWirzenius
*** LukeYelavich
*** MatthiasKlose
*** OliverGrawert
*** SteveLangasek

=== Apologies ===

*** AlexanderSack
*** ArneGoetje
*** EvanDandrea

=== Agenda ===

* Specs for Intrepid Revisited
* Activity Reports

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

None

=== Specs for Intrepid Revisited ===

* Bryce: xorg-input-hotplug - Will be flipped on within the next week.  On schedule to be implemented by FF.  Bryce has tablets to test with (ogra does as well).  Calibration may be an issue - requires input device properties which may not land for intrepid.
* Bryce: hardy-console - Discussed implementation details of keyboard config fdi stuff with cjwatson.  Should be doable by FF.
* Bryce: x-testing-infrastructure - Partly done.  Nothing to upload to Ubuntu so probably not FF critical, but hope to have a first cut uploaded either by FF or within a couple weeks after.
* Bryce: xorg-ctrl-alt-backspace - Implementation plan identified with Debian.  Low priority, and not on the official schedule; will either be ready for FF or postponed for Intrepid+1.
* Bryce: xorg apport - Not an official spec, but discussed with mdz + pitti to identify implementation plan.  Should be doable by FF.

* Calc:  OOo 3.0's schedule is slipping; might be questionable if it should be pushed to intrepid.

* James_W:  font-selector - Discussed with Arne, looked at adapting fontconfig but probably not achievable for this release.
* James_W:  archive in bzr - 76 failures total.  Waiting on some LP 3.0 timeframe stuff, and on James mastering some pyrex stuff.  Medium priority.

* Ogra:  compcache - One last bit to get to.  Aiming for getting it done by alpha 4.

=== Activity reports ===
