{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* LoïcMinier - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round 
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21445|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* Reminder for release meeting, if due this week
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

None

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

I was off last Wednesday so it was a short week for me.

I worked on packaging a Python library not currently in Ubuntu from scratch, and got it successfully built in my PPA.  I update the Python distribute package from Debian, got that successfully built in my PPA, and submitted a merge proposal for updating Lucid.  I did both using the UDD method, sent an email of the experience to the mailing list and updated the wiki pages.

I spent some time reading up on the dh_python thread in debian-python, made some responses, and worked on my own fat byte-compilation file PEP.

I also did some planning for Pycon.

==== Colin Watson ====

* Finished grub2 merge.

* Fixed d-i build failures following switch to eglibc 2.11.

* Fixed partman-base #507059 (infinite loop; regression from performance work).

* ubiquity fixes for frozen choices (another regression from performance work).

* Reviewed and merged Kees' openssh patch to add DebianBanner configuration option (Debian #562048).

* foundations-lucid-reliable-device-id-in-grub:
** Resurrected some old work on removing grub-installer's reliance on device.map, using grub-probe etc.

** Resurrected old work on storing grub-pc/install_devices as persistent by-id device names.  Sent to Debian for feedback; rewarded by being given commit access, so apparently I get to decide for myself.  I'd like to see how it works with dmraid before committing.

* TB meeting (chaired).

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Added support to ubiquity for generating AppArmor's cache to speed up the first boot.
* Released a new ubiquity-slideshow, which now has a Kubuntu variant, thanks to Roman and Dylan.  Added the Kubuntu slideshow to the seeds.
* Fixed use of printf in casper that was preventing GDM from starting properly.
* Added xkb-data-i18n to the pkgbinarymangler striptranslations blacklist on the advice of pitti.
* Arranged Pycon attendance.
* Briefly chatted with David Bensimon about him taking on a bug contact role for usb-creator, and helping in testing Wubi.  Had some further chats with him on particular usb-creator issues.
* Fixed a small bug in ubiquity's new network configuration copying code that was breaking automated installs.
* Tested and committed a patch from Colin for handling plymouth in ubiquity's display manager.
* Brought the KDE frontend's slideshow handling into line with the GTK frontend.
* Worked on merging Debian's console-setup translation code into Ubuntu console-setup and ubiquity.  Done and waiting for a merge review.
* CD testing.  Ran into bug 506996.
* Ran into a number of odd resets shortly after initial boot, and then X failing to start up properly.  Martin pointed me at the fix, but it ate up a good chunk of the morning.
* Added some initial review to the ubiquity design document.
* Built and uploaded a new Wubi as we haven't had any on the Lucid CDs yet.
* Finished the "remove oem-config on successful completion" work item.
* Fire-fighting bug 506585 (deleting a partition in ubiquity doesn't work) with Colin.
* Call with Colin and OEM services to discuss foundations-lucid-oem-dvd-iso.

==== Gary Lasker ====

===== Software Center =====
* Finished code to maintain app selection for all
   cases when the list view is refreshed.  Some misc
   small fixes.  Branch reviewed by mvo and merged.
* Working on additional performance and user experience
   improvements for app reselect.
* Some bug work and triage.
* Weekly call with mvo and mpt.
===== General =====
* Time allocation: Platform 70%, OEM 30%.
* OEM engineering meeting.
* Foundations team meeting.

==== James Westby ====

==== Loïc Minier ====

===== Misc =====

* Discussed/spec-ed pbuilder profile support with Osamu Aoki on the pbuilder list
* Sent patch to fix mk-build-deps -i with aptitude
* After a system hang while upgrading libc6, my laptop wouldn't boot; as a result I went to check debsums for all installed packages and noticed that one was broken and a bunch were missing; fixed all packages installed on my system to have correct debsums: dput, debian-archive-keyring, bzip2, bogofilter (was actually fixed in Debian; did some other fixes in Ubuntu too which were also done in Debian), mawk, liblockfile, lockfile-progs, update-inetd (was actually fixed but blocked on a main promotion of a build-dep), gnome-pilot
* MIRs: poked psycopg2 MIR issue with respect to running the testsuite, green flag on edje, ctdb, took a look at libplist + usbmuxd + libiphone
* Triaged some pbuilder, flumotion, bzip2 bugs
* Researched fixing MAIL= handling in sudo (LP #507934)
* MIRs: ctdb, looked into psycopg2 testsuite issue, green-flagged edje, looked at libplist + usbmuxd + libiphone
* Some bug triaging on flumotion, pbuilder, bzip2
* Researched how to fix handling of MAIL= in sudo (LP #507934)
* Reviewed + uploaded indicator-me
* Fix install-info trigger transition warning in readline5
* Solid work on pkg-create-dbgsym to avoid some warnings during all builds using it, and to run the testsuite during build (much more work than I anticipated -- had to patch pkgbinarymangler too)

===== ARM =====

* Worked quite a bit on fixing + sanity checking the new uboot image generation script for imx51 which ogra provided me with
* Reviewed proposed rootstock changes from Robert Nelson
* Fixed ffmpeg build with lucid toolchain and greatly improved features detection: now the VFP flavour will only be built if the toolchain doesn't enable VFP by default, same for NEON

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== software-center =====
* work on ratings&reviews (lp:~mvo/software-center/reviews)
* added login/submit support with launchpadlib/gtk and add utils/submit_review.py that can log into launchpad without the need for a browser and proper threading etc (took a bit)
* talk to Debian about review db sharing
* work on fix for #486474, update SRU insruction, upload to karmic-proposed
* debug/fix crash in delete_event handler
* fix crash in threading code, upload new version, properly fix removal warning (needs latest python-apt)
* debug/fix software-center app-reselect scrolling bug
* review/merge lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/app-reselect
* code cleanup (use Application object all the time)
* fix race condition in JS injection in wkwidget
* hide reviews when no package is available
* discuss sub-category design (likely to change)

===== update-manager =====
* bug triage/fixing, prepare new version

===== apt and friends =====
* debian branch review
* python-apt: fix low-level DepTypes API, add some missing contants, add DepTypeEnum
* Synaptic: fix ftbfs with gcc-4.5
* Unattended-upgrades: updated for lucid, add Automatic-Removal flag
* Unattended-upgrades: bugfixing, add conffile_prompt tests
* Unattended-upgrades: backport fixes to hardy, upload to ppa:~mvo/unattended-upgrades

===== boot-recovery =====
* add /bin/static-shell to busybox-static
* add static-sh support to sulogin (sysvutils)
* push seed changes to lp:~mvo/ubuntu-seeds/platform.lucid
* booting with init=/bin/static-sh for super emergency works (not uploaded yet because of alpha-2)

===== misc =====
* Command-not-found: data update/review, bug triage/fixing
* Apt-ddtp: updated, upload to lucid (alpha-2)
* Friendly-recovery fix xfix option
* talk with TeTeT about upgrade system design
* Ubuntu-weatherreport: updated branch for new auto-upgrade tester location and submit patch
* debi: review/merge code from DktrKranz
* Python: debug failure with pycentral and python-pyatspi (#507842), fix pycentral, upload

==== Scott James Remnant ====

On Leave last week.

==== Steve Langasek ====

=== Release management ===
* alpha 2
* preparations for Ubuntu 8.04.4

=== Specs ===
* UbuntuSpec:mobile-lucid-arm-alternate-images: Add ARM alternate images to ISO trackers
* UbuntuSpec:foundations-lucid-cryptsetup: follow through on cryptsetup SRU

=== Packages ===
* mountall: fix an unlikely race condition (bug #506902)
* follow through on plymouth/cryptsetup integration, fixing the problem that was causing plymouth to never display any text (bug #496765)

=== Sponsorship ===
* mountall (bug #503212, bug #505748, bug #505530)
