{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* EvanDandrea - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

surbhi, barry, mvo, ev, doko, Keybuk, cjwatson

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27560|alpha-2 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

===== foundations-m-python-packaging =====

* wrote versioned .so patch for py3k w/test fixes and distutils support and testing
* submitted upstream, which generated a "heated" debate ;)
* todo: catch up on thread and continue discussion

===== foundations-m-python-versions =====

* python 2.7 archive rebuilding and testing
* ppa uploads going slow, really need a script to work out rdepends and automate
* worked on sbuild environment

===== foundations-m-continuous-integration =====

* flufl.quickly to generate best-of-breed package templates w/debian integration

===== misc =====

* uploaded flufl.enum and flufl.i18n to DPMT for uploading to debian
* awaiting feedback

==== Colin Watson ====

I spent most of this week on an OEM customer project.  This is just what I managed to fit into the cracks.

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-m-uefi-support:
** Fixed a couple of bugs found by Manoj Iyer at the UEFI Plugfest: hide errors from grub-install if efivars is built-in, and source /usr/lib/grub/grub-mkconfig_lib in EFI grub-install.

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-m-package-culling:
** Generated list of stale merges and posted to ubuntu-devel (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2010-June/030936.html).
** Merged installation-guide.

* UbuntuSpec:foundations-m-btrfs-support:
** Tested and sponsored Chow Loong Jin's fix for ureadahead Bug:570014.

* Synced: btrfs-tools

* Updated Ubuntu versions displayed in Plymouth splash (Bug:588633) and Ubiquity slideshow (Bug:588677).

* Developer Membership Board meeting.

==== Evan Dandrea ====

* Imported the geonames database and wrote a small web application to host queries using cherrypy and sphinxsearch.  Filed RT #39986 for space on a server for it.
* Wrote some new widgets using cairo for the implementation of the 'Preparing to install Ubuntu' screen and for the partitioning page (resize widget).
* Implemented the basic greying out of a window functionality to be used on the keyboard page.
* Moving all custom GTK widgets into a single module, adding Glade support along the way.
* Verified the 10.10 USB disk for the shop.
* Started implementing the new timezone, prepare, user-setup, and keyboard designs.

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== software-center =====
* lp:~gary-lasker/software-center/lp57849-for-lucid
* add json-tag-section-parser and tests 
* add key download into aptdaemon via gio lp:~mvo/aptdaemon/download-vendor-keys
* add tests for xapian querying the s-c  
* add upgraded information to the history
* merged lp:~mmcg069/software-center/catview-conform-w-spec (sweet stuff)
* review/merge a11y fixes, catview updates, button updates
* work on lazr-restfulclient support
* work on meta-data parser
* work on new-apps spec

===== misc =====
* apt-ddtp update
* partner archive to PPA discussion 
* lp:~kiwinote/python-apt/merge-gdebi-changes 
* work with pitti on compressed indexes feature 
* review/merge lp:~pitti/python-apt/record-access-performance

===== update-manager =====
* debug/fix crash in non-interactive upgrade (LP: #574837)
* fix crash in --no-focus-on-map   
* add direct lucid -> maverick upgrade support via do-release-upgrade -d
* confirm/fix/test upgrade failure for flashplugin-nonfreee 
* debug/fix hang in the auto-upgrade testing for lucid->maverick

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Surbhi Palande ====
