{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

=== Apologies ===
No Meeting Due to UDS/FOSSCamp travel

=== Agenda ===

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Finally nailed down console-setup #130444, an old and twisty bug with many duplicates. Prepared gutsy/hardy/intrepid SRUs for it; gutsy was rejected but put that in my PPA instead.

* initramfs-tools upload with debugging assistance for the above, also hoovering up #285970. Fixes armel installability too since the copy from intrepid-updates ran into a Soyuz bug.

* oem-config-on-server call.

* Taught myself about chdist in response to a discussion in the Foundations team meeting.

* Rescued kernel overrides for security update after learning that security-in-Soyuz doesn't dump new binaries into the NEW queue as
   usual, but instead just hopes that their overrides are correct.

* ARM porting assistance:
** No-change rebuilds: gtkhtml3.14
** Stop using deprecated GTK macros in libhildon so that libhildonhelp can build (#300007).
** hildon-thumbnail build fix (#300215).

* Extended architecture-mismatches to report on Architecture: all packages missing from certain architectures (due to Soyuz #299448).

* Helped out the kernel team with some archive understanding. Sponsored linux-ports-meta upload.

* Merged: user-setup

* ubuntu-meta refresh upload.

==== James Westby ====

* Distributed Development
  - Announced package-import.ubuntu.com. Small bits of feedback,and a bit of discussion on vcs-pkg.
  - Reduced the list of failures to ~150 from ~500.
  - Worked on bzr-builddeb, merging patches, fixing a couple of bugs and starting to refactor the code to make the changes we need to
    make this cycle easier.
  - Started to think about making upload to multiple PPAs easier. Shouldn't be hard, but the UI will need some consideration.

* Ubuntu
  - Fixed some bugs and FTBFS, worked a bit on the mono 2.0 transition, and did some sponsoring.
  - Started the Ubuntu Developer News.

* Other
  - Preparation for FOSSCamp/UDS.

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

* Preparation for FOSSCamp, UDS.
* Vacation.

==== Luke Yelavich ====

* Accessibility
* Updated more GNOME accessibility stack packages, atk1.0, at-spi, accerciser, gok, gnome-orca, mousetweaks.

* Audio
* Audio bug triaging.
* Managed to fix a few bugs for jaunty that crept in due to missing files from merges.
* Added some patches to pulseaudio from upstream git.
* Was pointed to an issue regarding openal, alsa, and the pulse alsa plugin. More investigation needed.
* Sponsored an upload of libcanberra to fix an upgrade issue where libcanberra-gnome and gnome-session-canberra shared files.
* Did some investigation into stuttering audio with openoffice and presentations in intrepid. Seems like its not an audio infrastructure issue, and it also seems openoffice is not respecting sound preference settings, even though it uses gstreamer.
* Updated pulseaudio in my PPA.
* Investigated Fedora's pulseaudio package, and am still considering whether all the patches are necessary for us so early in the cycle.
* Merged pavucontrol and paprefs.
* Requested a sync for alsa-tools.

* Misc
* Sponsored various uploads in main.
* Spent time going through uds specs, and subscribing to the ones I am interested in.

==== Steve Langasek ====
* Release management
* work on uninstallables/overrides
* SRU processing

* Merges
* mlt, a very painful TIL merge

* Sponsorship
* bzrtools (bug #302469)
* boost (bug #263209)
* aide (bug #112242)
* follow up on linux-atm (#269683), suggest a Debian NMU un-subscribe sponsors from bug #207150
* rus-ispell (bug #280157, no upload required)
* dhcp3 (bug #258192, no upload required)
* lm-sensors-3 (bug #299205)
* powernowd (bug #223812, 229027)

* Misc
* Monday archive duties
