{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* ColinWatson - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* EvanDandrea
* GaryLasker
* JamesWestby
* LoïcMinier
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SteveLangasek

=== Lightning round order ===

{{{#!python
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'james_w',
    'lool',
    'mvo',
    'slangasek',
    'tremolux',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
}}}

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=21447|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

==== Colin Watson ====

* Partitioner:
** Fixed up GPT->MBR syncing in parted for Intel Macs (#538536).
** Fixed broken use of cylinder alignment in parted_server (#539456).

* Ubiquity:
** Fixed KDE privilege-raising code (#526456, #538142).
** Minor UI fixes (#527704, #531864).
** Fixed up noninteractive frontend (#539342).
** Plymouth interaction fixes.
** Avoided use of apt/libudev when we already have /cdrom bind-mounted (#539170).

* Other installer work:
** Filter out cloud tasks from ordinary server installations (#540167).
** Fixed kernel installation on ubuntustudio/amd64 (#541625).
** Unbreak console-setup-udeb postinst (#540835).
** console-setup performance improvements.
** Don't warn about data loss from partitioning when we know there won't be any (#151266).
** Attacked wubildr installation problem a bit more (#477104).

* Worked with Scott to nail down Plymouth/Upstart console handling bug that caused pressing Enter on live CD boot to kill X (#540256).

* Revert dpkg fsync during unpack for now due to serious performance regression (#537241).

* Cope with partitions over 9 in initramfs (#539577).

* Kubuntu Netbook localisation (#540335).

==== Evan Dandrea ====

===== ubiquity =====
* Worked a bit on a test harness for ubiquity.
* Align labels to the top on the language page in ubiquity (LP: #532876).
* Fixed a race around the quit dialog in ubiquity (r3927 for the full details).
* Properly set the text for the release notes label after the user runs the 'update this installer' option.
* Fixed the grub comboboxes in ubiquity (LP: #539204).
* In the KDE frontend in ubiquity, call reboot with root privileges and try rebooting via dbus only if a KDE dbus session exists (LP: #540856).
* Moved ubiquity's apport hook into the apport source.
* Give feedback when the user selects one of the ubiquity greeter options and disable the other.
* Landed my inactive labels for the user setup page branch on ubiquity trunk.

===== slideshow =====
* Implemented the rest of the need changes to ubiquity for the slideshow, now that Dylan has implemented Michael's mockup.  Freeze exception filed as bug 538411.
* Fixed the Firefox icon in ubiquity-slideshow and merged the updated Kubuntu slideshow branch.

===== usb-creator =====
* Fixed a race in usb-creator that was preventing partitions from being shown sometimes.
* Looked into 269786 (suppressing nautilus windows in usb-creator) some more.  The options are seemingly limited to either mounting partitions in hidden directories or telling nautilus via gconf to not automount *anything*.
* Rework partition mounting so that it doesn't fail if the partition was mounted between dbus calls.
* Don't write usb-creator-helper's log to /root (LP: #461064).
* Somewhat fix progress reporting.
* Provide a format confirmation dialog (LP: #443330).
* Error out of formatting if we're unable to unmount all of the partitions (LP: #507420).
* Provide feedback via a spinning cursor and disabled format button while formatting (LP: #457737).
* Unmount the partition at the end of install using usb-creator-helper rather than umount as a regular user to work around a udisks bug.
* Handle device property changes (synthesizing a remove and add).
* Pulse the progress bar while flushing changes to disk and installing the bootloader.
* And lots more small changes.

===== Wubi =====
* Small fixes to get it working in lucid.

==== Gary Lasker ====

* Continued software-center bug fixes and triage.
** Lots of triage, targeting and prioritizing bugs for Beta 2.  Emphasis on stability and performance.
** Fixed four bugs in current release 1.1.18.
** In-progress LP: #535055, channel/PPA reload issue.
* OEM and Foundations weekly team meetings
* Recruitment:  IRC/email with candidate for open OEM/desktop
   developer positions
* Engineering rotation allocation this week
** 80% platform, 20% OEM

==== James Westby ====

==== Loïc Minier ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== update-manager =====
* debug/fix #530632 hardy->lucid initramfs-update upgrade bug in module-init-tools
* review auto-upgrader logs and report bugs/target existing bugs
* debug/fix conffile prompt hang in noninteractive upgrade mode (#538206)
* fix gtk-qt-engine removal (#532968)
* add workaround for openoffice.org #516727
* add better pre-depends cycle detection to cleanly revert in this case
* improve "keep-install-section" rule to fix main-all/main-all-lts auto upgrade test failures
* fix indicator applet add bug (#539969)
* fix kernel selection from base-installer to avoid duplicates (#540114)
* dpkg: look at missing error on --status-fd on trigger failure
* Debug/patch missing dpkg error reporting for deferred triggers (#540252), send patch upstream for comments
* Debug main-all upgrade failure, fix libunique #493608
* show progress when searching for obsolete packages in cleanup stage
* fix crash in non-interactive upgrader
* debug/fix blacklist removal issue (#540823)
* improve stepmaker profile by using devilspie to ensure fixed window positions (yeah!) and commit updated script to bzr

===== command-not-found =====
* updated command-not-found scan.data
* cherry pick fix for #507760

===== beta-1 =====
* Apt-ddtp update for beta-1
* updated and uploaded into rosetta for import, fix bug in upload
   script

===== archive-crawler =====
* debug/fix bug in icon extraction (and add test to tests/)

===== apt/python-apt =====
* fix incorrect addition of "cs" in needFullLocales and upload new version
* debug memleak in TagFileParser
* review apt debian/sid changes

===== software-center =====
* review/merge lp:~barry/rnr-server/review-stats
* update reviews branch for changes in rnr-server, fix some bugs
* debug/fix maintenance status for non-apps (#538172)
* Aptdaemon: review/merge fix for socket race (#455861)
* Aptdaemon: fix is_dpkg_journal_clean() code
* ratings&reviews deployment calls
* debug aptdaemon debconf race (#455861)
* Gtk: work on speedup for software-center in the treeview/treelist #514879

===== computer-janitor =====
* Work on dbus computer-janitor branch with barry and review his branch (good stuff!)
* review dbus branch
* push "find_async" improvements on lp:~mvo/computer-janitor/dbus

===== misc =====
* Ubuntu-system-service: debug/fix apply-systemwide bug (#530430)
* Update-notifier/landscape: review/comment reboot-required file (#538253) additional info
* Discuss system-wide apply on gnome-control-center with upstream
* Update-notifier: add hplip firmware loading support (with pitti, tkamppeter)
* Unattended-upgrades: add support for plymouth via --text ... if a upgrade is running on shutdown (#506709)
* Compiz: look at rounding issue (#532224) with light theme
* Arm: trying to reproduce hang, but fails in qemu-system-arm
* various M planning phonecalls

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Steve Langasek ====

===== Release management =====
* Lucid beta 1 released, in SUDDEN DEATH OVERTIME
* plymouth testing
* bug triaging

===== Packages =====
* finish NBS mass-rebuilds for libhdf5-serial-1.8.4
* NBS rebuilds for libgdal1-1.6.0, libgssdp-1.0-2, libgupnp-1.0-3
* fix yate FTBFS (more NBS cleanup)
* fix whois, libspe2 FTBFS

===== Sponsorship =====
* plasma-widget-message-indicator (Bug:539700)
