{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Installer bug-fixing:
** partman-base/grub-installer #348411 (offers to install to source media in ubiquity if source media is SD (/dev/mmcblk0) card).
** partman-target #347817 (don't place LABEL= in /etc/fstab by default, even if the filesystem has one).
** ubiquity/oem-config #347900 (auto-login in OEM mode fails).
** pkgsel #348393 (installing in a language other than English will not install appropriate language packs if they aren't on the CD).
** ubiquity #348660 (ubiquity unsets ubiquity/install_bootloader=false at some point during installation).
** user-setup #321345 (user-setup-apply breaks if home directory already exists and encrypted-home selected).
** ubuntu-cdimage #288320 (Networkless Ubuntu MID install hangs at "Scanning archive...").
** apt #290234 (no progress information while downloading packages).
** Backported an upstream patch for a busybox bug that broke big-endian machines.
** parted #222126 (partition table is cleared during install on Intel Macs).
** ubiquity #349173 (weak-password dialog should be Yes/No).
** ubiquity #349835 (preseeding grub2 causes ubiquity installation to fail).
** ubiquity #349937 (hw-detect crash).
** ubiquity #342354 (grub device validation doesn't handle dmraid).
** ubiquity #351547 (wrong ordering of autopartitioning choices).
** partman-partitioning #333356 (error resizing partition immediately after changing its filesystem).
** casper #351982 (preseeding from url breaks the nfs mount when booting live cd from nfsroot).

* Assistance with ARM beta publishing.

* Helped out Cody Somerville and Steve Magoun with partman customisation and installer preseeding.

* Release notes:
** #316872 (grub requires reinstallation on in-place filesystem upgrade to ext4).
** #314004 (lilo may need to be removed manually on upgrades from 8.10).
** #346589 (poorly labelled buttons in ubiquity).
** #347916 (warns user about the fact that the installation medium is mounted).
** #336203 (incorrect partition sizes in graphical disk previews).
** Targeted all bugs from 8.10 release notes to Jaunty.

* Sponsorship:
** Merged the rest of Michael's iMX51 patches from #345534.
** libpcap #351591 (took a while since I had to run into, diagnose, file, and fix python-launchpad-bugs #352543).
** dhcp3 #74164.
** asio #277840.
** yum #347000 (universe).

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* On Holiday

==== James Westby ====

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Luke Yelavich ====
===== Accessibility =====
* Improved the accessibility setup code in the casper accessibility scripts, making sure Orca exists before creating directories on the installed and live filesystems, as well as making sure PulseAudio exists on the installed/live filesystem before disabling it.
* Added code to copy any changed settings for Orca over to the installed system when the user uses ubiquity to install Ubuntu. This is not done for onboard, since I don't know where it puts its files. Someone who uses onboard will have to let me know.
* Adjusted pulseaudio and casper so that pulseaudio disabling for accessibility reasons is done per user, and not system wide.
* Fix Orca's .desktop file to not display its icon in the applications menus.

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging
* Upload some changes for alsa-driver, alsa-lib, and pulseaudio, thanks to Daniel Chen. Also uploaded the pulseaudio side of the accessibility special case disable code.
* Started preparing a patch to disable the hda beep configuration in the kernel.

===== dmraid =====
* Thanks to the debian dmraid maintainer, got a few critical dmraid fixes fixed in Debian, and got them over to Ubuntu. THings appear to be ok for release, but will do an install test later this week to be sure.

===== Misc =====
* Travel arrangements for Allhands/UDS.
* UbuntuStudio DVD image testing.
* Some more time spent writing accessibility related specs for UDS, as well as working on specs for work that will likely have to be done upstream, to allow the UDS specs to be considered.

==== Matthias Klose ====
* Attended PyCon
* On Holiday

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== upgrades =====
* Debug nvidia-common upgrade failure (turned out be   https://launchpad.net/bugs/347648)
* Upgrade test (real HW w. fglrx) with fglrx -> ati transiton (and fixed issues along the way)
* Debug python upgrade failure with #348322 (qmtest) and add fix
* Fix python-mechanize upgrade failure (#347939)
* Work on python-central error reporting (#347939)
* Work on fix for zope3 upgrade/install issue (#347939) 
* review upgrade logs
* upgrade testing before beta (w. cdrom, without cdrom, network, in kvm and on real HW)
* Fix file-overwrite problem (#346903) in libcanberra   
* Debug/fix ubuntustudio-audio python import problem during upgrade via new ubuntustudio-controls (LP: #346101)
* Remove old crash files on upgrade (as requested by pitti) 
* Debug/fix python upgrade issue with pitivi (#349441)  
* Debug doc-base failure #349725 
* Try to reproduce python-qt4-dbus upgrade issue (#348704) [no luck]
* Work with liw on obsolete package behavior improvements        
* Review upgrade issue with kubuntu and dontzap (#349886)        
* Debug/work-around python upgrade issue (#352317) where rtupdate scripts fail  
* Debug/fix penguintv python upgrade issue (#352369) 
* Fix python-freevo upgrade problem (#352148)    
* Work on python-aubio upgrade problem
* Make python-tau installable/upgradable again #344302 
* work on kvm test environment that upgrades with most of the python packages installed to catch more upgrade problems

===== update-notifier =====
* Debug problem with hooks (with robert_ancell) and fix in bzr (#348883)

===== software-properties =====
* fix crash in software-properties md5 calculation (#348883)
* Fix crash in software-properties when no mirrors are available (LP: #332205)
* Make software_property is_seperator more robust (LP: #335637)

===== apt =====
* Merge apt-ftparchive fix into the ubuntu branch and upload
* Review/fix apt.cron.daily bogus messages (#223502) 
* Merge apt.cron.daily fixes (#223502/debian #459344)  
* new upload
* fix python-apt mirror list generation and upload new version

===== misc =====
* f-spot: only set PhotoDirectory if it actually exists in f-spot (fixes error dialog if "Fotos" folder is misisng) and upload new version
* help with https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades
* Work on fusa applet i18n (#348866)  
* Debug/fix moblin-media crash (#348531)
* Debug/fix python-hildon empty package and upload fix 
* Release notes update (for fglrx transition issue) 
* had a intern this week, gave him some install/upgrade testing jobs
* Revert last python2.6 upload that breaks pygtk (#349467)      
* Report n-m #351487 from user feedback  
* Report ubiquity issue with window on the disk (#351547)
* Debug/fix apt-xapian-index problem with synaptic (#288797) 
* Report virt-manager notify-osd interaction problem (#351675) 

===== hardware =====
* mainboard in my test system broke, diagnosed the problem and ordered a new one

===== gdebi =====
* Work with sianis on gdebi fixes 
* Work on gio gdebi (gio, progress bar, cancelable) and push to lp:~mvo/gdebi/gio (string break, FF break unfortunately, otherwise looks pretty solid)
* Mege gdebi auto-close patch from Nyitrai Istv√°n  

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor brasero double free fix
* Merge brasro menu-move patch (#344431)

==== Scott James Remnant ====
===== Upstart =====

* Lots of work on the underlying D-Bus object code and message marshalling/demarshalling - will be very happy once this is in the  can, and then I can move on to the thrills of the main loop  ;) 

===== blkid =====

* Follow ups to testing feedback

===== Summit =====

* Make schedule always public

* Include Plenary room(s) on schedule

* Required participant errors are now warnings; the session will turn orange and the people who are unavailable will be crossed out - but you can still drop it in place

* Made meeting name optional and added description field (for allhands)

* More meeting types (for allhands)

* Added "presentation" meeting type for UDS in-session talks

* Fixed sponsorship spreadsheet now that multiple people can score, include Country field for clan

* Investigated missing attendees, iz LP bug

* Set up allhands schedule

* Added somehands to allhands.canonical.com

===== Misc =====

* Upgraded desktop to jaunty beta

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* beta freeze
** freeze exception processing
* weekly release meeting
* chasing CD sizes
* beta preparations
* component mismatch handling (reduced by 50%)

===== Sponsorship =====
* sponsor xchat upload to address excess notification verbosity
* sponsor nspluginwrapper (bug #321814)
* sponsor fixes for uninstallable jmagick, kmediafactory

===== Packages =====
* ntp: fix for kernel warning on every load (bug #328376)
* pam: fix a brown paper bag bug in ulimit handling (bug #314222)
* nvclock: merge from Debian to support for backlight handling on newer nvidia chips (bugs #95444, #326365, #331750)
* universe uploads to help clear out NBS
* split gnome-user-guide by language to make more CD space
* drop libehcache from libloader Recommends, to truncate the java dep chain
* acpi-support: clean up /etc/modprobe.d (bug #340873)

===== Misc =====
* Monday archive duties x2
