{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* JamesWestby
* LarsWirzenius
* LukeYelavich
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* SteveLangasek 

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===

* Jaunty Alpha 1
* UDS - http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-jaunty/
** Blueprints & Specs for Roadmap Topics - http://blueprints.launchpad.net/sprints/uds-jaunty
** Team Topics - http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/UDS/December2008
* Bugs
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+bugs?field.milestone%3Alist=2209|Milestoned bugs]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/jaunty/+bugs|Targeted bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~dholbach/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* Reminder for release meeting, if due this week
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

* Robbie to update the Jaunty UDS planning <nowiki>[[..-..-UDS-December2008|wiki]]</nowiki> with blueprints for sessions

=== Activity reports ===

==== Colin Watson ====
* Fixed gfxboot-theme-ubuntu #294840.

* Helped Kyle Nitzsche (OEM) out with taking over Classmate PC work.

* Merged: memtest86+, partman-auto, partman-auto-lvm,partman-auto-crypto, network-console, installation-report,localechooser, and most of debian-installer

* Made powermanagement-interface build on armel, and cleared out some old bugs in it (#45680, #149678, #182651).

* Typo fix in language-selector.

* Bits of man-db and dpkg bug triage.

* Fix gamin build failure (noticed by Matthias on armel).

* Fix palo build failure.

* Various armel-related buildability and installability fixes; also some related archive administration work.

* Worked to get the GTK debian-installer frontend buildable in Ubuntu (including vte packaging merge).

* Wrote archive script to check for override mismatches between architectures; output at
   http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/architecture-mismatches.txt
   (may well be empty when you read this, but it does work ...).

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Short week, off on Friday, November 14th.
* oem-config work 
* partman-target merge.
* Specification work: JauntyUbiquityUsability, usb-creator (still in progress)

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====

* Machine moved to the DMZ so that it can be exposed to the public to serve branches. No loggerhead/playground set up
    yet.
* Move meant that the firewall is currently preventing the importers from working, so a backlog is building up. RT ticket filed requesting the needed holes to be punched in the firewall or alternative solution proposed.
* Discovered that my user account on the machine had a wacky locale set. Changed to a sane one and reduced the failure count by ~1000 (exact number not available at present due to previous point, somewhere around 500 failures remain, ~4%)
* Basic documentation written for how to use the branches, need to incorporate Colin's feedback, and detail what is different for working with the temporary branches.
* Spoke to Celso last week about getting the needed APIs, apparently shouldn't be too hard, but isn't top of his priority list. Current situation works, but isn't ideal. I can work on a solution that will improve most cases.
* Spoke to Kubuntu team about bzr for packaging. 
* Also spoke to Celso about building packages directly from bzr. This is hard to do if we want to retain signed source packages, but not impossible. 

===== Ubuntu =====

* Sponsoring feast. >50 items sponsored in the last few days. 
* UDS specs

==== Lars Wirzenius ====

* Thinking about wonderful things Cruft Remover could do in jaunty. No coding or wiki activity yet.
* Started preparing my Ubuntu Contributing Developer application.
* Looked at the lockfile-progs merge, and prodded the previous uploader about it (looked like an easy one).
* Verified that the buildd-built system-cleaner SRU binaries fix the bugs the SRU is supposed to fix.

==== Luke Yelavich ====

===== Audio =====
* Audio bug triaging.
* Ongoing consideration and examination on how the alsa kernel modules could be maintained outside the kernel in their own package, for the several kernels Ubuntu has.
* Merged alsa-driver, alsa-lib, alsa-plugins, alsa-utils, and pulseaudio. Jaunty will have 0.9,13 at a minimum, and hopefully one or two releases newer than that will be available before feature freeze.

===== Dmraid =====
* Spent some time checking that the dmraid package in Debian has all the bits I put into the ubuntu package, and fakesynced it into intrepid, due to the newer upstream version in alioth svn not being in debian experimental yet.
* Resume packaging work for the pieces needed for dmraid event monitoring.

===== Misc =====
* Cleared the debian-installer component merges that my name was next to, as well as the universe merges that I care about.
* Updated some newly released gnome 2.25 accessibility packages.

==== Matthias Klose ====
* armel bootstrap
* toolchain updates
* bug triage

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== SRU =====
* update compoiz-fusion-plugins-unsupported 
* SRU for the package description translations to jaunty-proposed

===== sponsoring =====
* Review/sponsor system-cleaner

===== apt =====
* fix apt pty problem with background processes (debian #463030) 
* Work on updating ddtp debian import script (debian does no longer publish the Translations tarball on ddtp.debian.net) 

===== synaptic =====
* add (basic) support for screenshots.debian.net by adding a button fetch thumbs/full screenshots
* hack a bit on screenshotMaker.py - a script that can create screenshots automatically and unattended in xvfb

===== popularity-conetest =====
* create backup of the data (we have a lot of it)
* write code so that it can give the most popular packages that are not part of a meta-package (in g-a-i    utils/analyzePopconData.py)

===== merges =====
* Merge cron, unzip, vorbisgain, upx-ucl, tracker, smartmontools, moin, libxslt, lockfile-progs, libgsf, lapack, aptitude, gpm,
   popularity-contest, apmd, alacarte, python-gdata, xsane (and submit changes to debian when appropriate) 

===== update-manager =====
* look into libvirt and if the auto-upgrade-tester can be ported to it easily
* setup auto-upgrade-tester for intrepid-jauny 
* Fix --ssh-key to install a ssh server in ubuntu-vm-builder and push to lp
* fix sources.list inconsistencies on upgrade as discussed on ubuntu-devel 
* enable interpid->jaunty upgrades in the meta-release-development file (and test-upgrade to it)

===== misc =====
* research the various backup tools and look at the various solutions  

==== Steve Langasek ====
====== Release management ======
* finish getting the archive ready for jaunty
** jaunty opening merges: emacs-goodies-el
* preparations for alpha-1

===== Packages =====
* further cleanup of PAM bugs
* pick up assigned (== t-i-l) merges for jaunty: choose-mirror,cracklib2, djvulibre, mime-tools, wireless-tools, libpam-ldap

===== Misc =====
* aid with indoctrination of new kernel team members @ Portland sprint
* Lexington November Nexus
* Monday archive duties
