{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* You - chair
* BarryWarsaw
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MatthiasKlose
* MichaelVogt
* ScottJamesRemnant
* SurbhiPalande

=== Lightning round order ===

<pre>
from random import shuffle
team = [
    'Keybuk',
    'barry',
    'cjwatson',
    'doko',
    'ev',
    'mvo',
    'csurbhi',
    ]
order = team[:]
shuffle(order)
print ', '.join(order)
</pre>

=== Apologies ===

=== Agenda ===
* Lightning Round
** 2-4 sentences on current work/roadblocks
* Outstanding actions from last meeting
* Outstanding feature freeze exceptions
* Farming out tasks that aren't being handled
** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+bugs?field.milestone:list=27561|alpha-3 bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://qa.ubuntu.com/reports/sponsoring/|Sponsorship queue]]</nowiki>
* Any business from activity reports
* Good news
* AOB
* Next week's chair

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Chair for next meeting ===
* ev

=== Activity reports ===

==== Barry Warsaw ====

* f-m-python-versions
** much work on py27 stack
** dealing with ppa limitations and api
** pythoneers/py27stack2
** waiting for (sloooowwww) results of last sync submission
** todo: review ftbfs logs and write no-change version bump mass upload script
* f-m-robust-python-packaging
** python bug 9193
** versioned .so files patch (poor man's abi)
** python-dev discussions
** todo: finish pep 3149 and submit
* misc
** bug 602132 (valgrind ftbfs on mav)
** reviewed lean research paper
** built out new mav installation on mbp
** python modules submitted for debian ITP

==== Colin Watson ====

* GRUB 2:
** Merged Debian work from the tail-end of last week, with some additional fixes for bugs reported over the weekend.
** Fixed regression when installing to a partition.
** Yet more documentation work.
** Worked on foundations-m-grub2-boot-framebuffer, fixing an ordering bug that broke GRUB_BACKGROUND handling, working with Andy to figure out how to avoid screen-clears, and spending a lot of time testing.  At Matthew Garrett's suggestion, I wrote a simple linearfb kernel module, awaiting his review.
** Fixed an obscure directory corruption bug when reading from reiserfs.
** Fix grub-installer to resolve symlinks in default boot device (Bug:602758).

* Support building debian-installer with new apt mirror: method.

* Some 10.04.1 preparation.

* Fixed cyrus-sasl2 (Bug:600180) and ppp (Bug:600947) build failures.

* Stop sshd on shutdown, since Upstart won't do it for us now that it's a native job (Bug:603363).

* Reviewed gparted patches from Surbhi.

* Merged: initramfs-tools (twice), busybox, suitesparse (fixing build failure, Bug:601008), manpages-de, loadlin

==== Evan Dandrea ====

==== Matthias Klose ====

==== Michael Vogt ====

===== misc =====
* App-install-data: fix glade meta-data bug 
* Apt-cacher-ng: debug failure with u-m and meta-release fetching
* Apt-cacher-ng: review/sponsor fix for #601883 (for apw)

===== apt =====
* fix ftbfs 
* make term.log logfile unbuffered
* review changes in debian-experimental-ma branch 

===== software-center =====
* aptdaemon: debug crash when user presses CANCEL in aptdaemon progress dialog 
* aptdaemon: debug/fix enable_component call return type mismatch
* aptdaemon: update 03_auth_me_less to ask for less password prompts
* aptdaemon: fix test failures
* workon/merge lp:~mvo/software-center/appdetails-in-db
* merged appdetailsview-gtk and pathbar-tweaks branches 
* diagnose failure in install-from-channel code
* make buy-app workflow work  
* port buy-something to new trunk code

===== python-apt =====
* bugfixes, better test coverage
* py3 fixes in tests/debfile code

===== update-manager =====
* Review/merge lp:~mdz/update-manager/small-fixes-20100707
* call set_fraction() less often
* fixes in python-apt 0.8 port
* fixes in the non-interactive upgrader and with python-apt 0.8 from lucid (that is a bit buggy :/) 
* good performance measurment/improvements #595845

===== sponsoring =====
* hostname, libaio, whois, memtest86+, subversion, compizconfig

==== Scott James Remnant ====

==== Surbhi Palande ====
