{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

For minutes of previous meetings, please see FoundationsTeam.

=== Present ===

* RobbieWilliamson - chair
* ColinWatson
* EvanDandrea
* MichaelVogt
* MikeTerry
* MuharemHrnjadovic
* ScottJamesRemnant

=== Apologies ===
* LarsWirzenius - On Holiday
* MatthiasKlose - on Canonical OEM Team rotational assignment
* SteveLangasek - Travelling back from <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/BootPerformance/DebianUbuntuSprint|Debian/Ubuntu Boot Performance Sprint]]</nowiki>

=== Agenda ===

* Karmic
** DebianImportFreeze is '''tomorrow''' - merge, merge, merge!!! :)
** glibc
** Status and Roadmap 
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/ReleaseStatus/Karmic
** Reminder to Milestone Features
** Platform Team Sprint - http://wiki.canonical.com/UbuntuPlatform/Sprints/Karmic 
* 8.04.3 LTS Update
** https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+milestone/ubuntu-8.04.3
* Sponsorship queue
* Good news
** Great progress made at the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FoundationsTeam/BootPerformance/DebianUbuntuSprint|Debian-Ubuntu Boot Performance Sprint]]</nowiki>
* AOB

=== Outstanding actions from last meeting ===
* liw to enter the storm of dmraid and talk to TheMuso
* Keybuk to draft KMS on the Console spec....based on mysterious irc discussion

=== Actions from this meeting ===

=== Activity reports ===
==== Colin Watson ====
* Fixed ubiquity #361627 (should not remove ecryptfs-utils when in use).
* Merged: grub2, busybox, ubuntu-policy, gnu-efi, openldap
* Drafted specs: foundations-karmic-golden-iso-image, foundations-karmic-cloud-setup-in-server-installer,foundations-karmic-server-installer-improvements
* Reviewed/approved specs: foundations-karmic-install-updates-when-installing, foundations-karmic-update-on-shutdown, foundations-karmic-power-management
* Fixed user-setup #388822 (username cannot have underscore during install).
* Sponsorship:
** iso-scan (merge from Muharem).
* Proposed a parted patch to clean up its current messy names for swap partition types.
* Sent a few busybox patches upstream (and then argued about them).
* Sent a proposal for installer online help text to debian-boot.
* LWN interview regarding GRUB 2.
* Adjusted base-installer for new PAE kernel package naming.
* Dynamically linked busybox in the initramfs, saving a megabyte. Some other shrinkage in initramfs-tools and dmraid.
* Worked on removing the old timezone map from ubiquity.

==== Evan Dandrea ====
* Helped Marc Tardiff with a few emails on his experiences with=ubiquity automation.  Verified that NTP preseeding was working, but filed bug 388343 after some discussion with Colin.
* Uploaded casper 1.132ubuntu0.3 to fix persistence support in 8.04.3.
* Tested Wubi r136 as a candidate to replace the version we have on the website for 9.04.  Filed a RT to have IS sign the binary.
* Had a discussion with Dylan McCall across the ubuntu-installer and ubiquity-slideshow mailing lists about the best approach for a slide format, then incorporating their existing work into the specification. Poked around the webkitgtk code.
* Helped debug some installation issues in #ubuntu-installer for waters and mattn_
* Finished drafting the encrypted swap specification.  Prodded Agostino and Roman to finish their respective specs.  All specifications are now approved.
* Email discussion with Michael Terry on what specifications and other work he can pick up for 9.10.
* Sorted travel for Debcamp and the sprint.
* Email discussion with Belinda about notifying interested parties about changes to oem-config.
* Did a bit of sponsorship work (LP: #380940, #384648, #349844)
* Looked into unit testing devkit-disks code via netlink messages, but after some discussion with Scott found it's much easier and better practice to create a fake devkit-disks.
* Looked into an issue of ubiquity ending up on the installed system, as reported on ubuntu-devel.
* Wrote an article for the Partner Newsletter, per Larry's request.
* Email discussion with Tim on the likelihood of colinux ever making it into the Ubuntu kernel.  As this was a definite no, sent an email to ubuntu-devel announcing that we will not be pursuing it for Wubi.
* Followed up with the Xandros user looking to install Ubuntu via USB on ubuntu-devel, per Robbie's request.
* Started a conversation with Andrew Sayers on his https://wiki.ubuntu.com/InstallProgramsFromMigrationAssistant specification. Andrew expressed interest on helping with the m-a rewrite, so I'm going to touch base with him when I return from vacation.
* Pushed Wubi r137 to Karmic.
* Hacked on the devkit backend / better backend split code for usb-creator.
* Reviewed rgreening's usb-creator backend work.  Looks about ready, but I'll have to make the necessary changes to the GTK frontend and pull in the devkit backend when I return from vacation, as we're long overdue for a new release.

==== James Westby ====
===== Distributed Development =====
** Started importing lots of main, but slowed due to the the volume of mail generated. Launchpad developers promptly fixed this, thanks.  I've started the import again.
** There are what appear to be similar problems causing the import of quite a few packages to fail. Investigation of this not yet done.

===== Daily Builds =====
* Spec not completed, sorry. It will be done this week.

===== Kerneloops =====
** Spec drafted and approved. Much help from Martin Pitt on how to implement the needed pieces in apport, thanks.

===== Distro tasks =====
** Some new packages so that we can have the new launchpadlib. Just one new package left to do I think.
** Less sponsoring than I would have liked due to being away.

===== Other =====
** 4 days conference leave for Open Source Bridge
** Preparation and travel arrangements for DebConf.
==== Lars Wirzenius ====

==== Matthias Klose ====
* Update and test GCC to build with SSP
* python2.6/python3.1 updates
* Update eglibc-2.9/-2.10 in PPA
* simple eclipse update, first steps to a roadmap to update eclipse in Ubuntu.
* build dash using profile based optimization
* binutils updates needed for ARM
* llvm update, needed for OpenJDK
* prepare gdb trunk (vfp support on ARM)

==== Michael Vogt ====
===== Specs =====
* Set apt-pre-unpack spec to review 
* KarmicInternalRepositoryManagment in review    

===== update-manager =====
* Add code to the non-interactive upgrader to read the dpkg progress logs (pre-unpack spec)
* Add code to libapt to output when dpkg is about to be forked on the status-fd (pre-unpack spec)
* PAE kernel transition discussion
* misc bugfixes
* add auto-upgrade tester as its own package 
* ship kubuntu and main-all in default profiles for the auto-upgrade tester (plus lts-server and lts-ubuntu)
* fix problem with left-over kvm instances
* fixes in the auto-upgrade-tester cli interface
* upload new version with auto-upgrade-tester package

===== kernel-crashdump =====
* learn about it (including how to trigger it, use "crash" etc)
* fix grub to pass better crashfile= parameter (#389449)
* fixes in kexec-tools
* update crash and makecrashfile to new upstream versions (and fix libdw-dev along the way)
* switch crash output to ELF by default, this got me a meaningful backtrace with "crash" and the linux-image-debug kernel
* make it work by default once the  "linux-crashdump" pacakge is installed 

===== AppCenter =====
* AppCenter design discussion 
* Update app-install-data with the keyword data from mpt 
* discussion about dbus apt backend with glatzor
* add debconf support to aptdaemon based around passthrough frontend and a debconf socket (lp:~mvo/aptdaemon/debconf)

===== misc =====
* Merge the confflictschecker changes by sbeattie to macaroni and make it run again (yeah!)
* Fix ubuntu-vm-builder problem (vol_id -> blkid) 
* Synaptic: merge i18n fix
* Fix bugAddress in software-properties  
* Debug/fix apt scoring problem with recommends (in the problem resolver) 

===== sponsoring =====
* smartmontools, metacity, gnome-games

==== Mike Terry ====
===== Merges =====
* Re-merged hdparm
* Updated duplicity

===== Rsyslog =====
* Finished de-rooting it
* Polished upgrade/migration code
* Filed MIRs
* Waiting on review

===== Ubiquity/oem-config merge =====
* Spent a while on merging the oem-config codebase with ubiquity's
* Kept history and format by using bzr-merge-into plugin
* Now there are very few oem-config-specific files, there are just bits of code that behave differently when run as oem-config.
* Have something that builds, have not tested yet.  Will upload as a bzr branch soon.

==== Muharem Hrnjadovic ====
===== Administrivia =====
*** Took care of Platform sprint travel arrangements

===== Merges and syncs =====
*** iso-scan_1.28ubuntu1
*** dput 0.9.4ubuntu1
*** lcms_1.18.dfsg-1
*** netbase_4.35ubuntu1
*** gawk_3.1.6.dfsg-3ubuntu1
*** ifplugd_0.28-15ubuntu1
*** rabbitmq-server 1.6.0-1
*** texmaker_1.9.1-1ubuntu1
*** crash_4.0-8.9-1

===== Distributed development =====
*** I felt I needed a bit more background so went back and read all the specs on the subject
*** started using bzr-builddeb in order to understand the underlying ideas better.
*** analysis and study of the bzr-rebase plugin source code.

==== Scott James Remnant ====
===== Upstart =====
* Upstream license reverted back to GPLv2 (from GPLv3)
* Much bug fixing, with several new releases: 0.3.10 and 0.3.11 of the stable branch (uploaded to Ubuntu) and 0.5.2 and 0.5.3 of the development branch

===== Kernel =====
* More fiddling with trying to get the populate_rootfs() call to be async, not having much luck yet - the first thing that the initcalls do is resync - may have to move the function a bit later on
* Union mount testing

===== Udev =====
* Updated bzr tree to 143, including necessary rules and control changes caused by the inclusion of the udev-extras code (not yet   uploaded)

===== Other =====
* Debian/Ubuntu Boot sprint

==== Steve Langasek ====
===== Release management =====
* release meeting: FeatureDefinitionFreeze
* Ubuntu 8.04.3 work

===== Specs =====
* following up on Debian LTS coordination

===== Misc =====
* boot performance sprint in London
