{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Based on lucubrating the theories of stone crushing, we adopt the American and European advanced technology and design this type of jaw crushers which meet customer’s requirements very well. Compared with other jaw crushers, this type of jaw crushers own advanced structure, relative lighter weight, easier installation, reliable performance, more convenient operation, higher capacity and crushing ratio and so on. 
Jaw crushers supply the best way to crush hard stone. Dividing the style structural design simplify the installation specially in down hole operation. The speed technology fully yields strong power to improve the higher crushing ratio and capacity. Shock mitigation system protects the operating machines.

 Brand: VIPEAK  
Certificate: ISO9001 , CE , IQNET , GOST 
Advantage: 
1、provide reasonable product selection and design

2、scientific workshop manufacturing arrangements

3、strict production process,on time delivery 
 

Jaw crushers adopt the modular construction and no-welding designs remove stress concentration and improve the service life. When there is difficult to transport or install the whole machine in the site, this type of jaw crushers can be divided and then install that reduces the freight and installation cost.
After long-term operation, the parts of jaw crusher are easier to be checked and changed than the welding or casting contracture that reduces the maintenance and operation cost.
The front plate, movable jaw plate, back plate, bearing base and other parts adopt high quality cast steel. Heavy eccentric shaft adopts high alloy steels which process smithing, fault detection, impact extrusion and other special techniques. Four aligning roller bearing and high performance dustproof sealing resist the impulse load and severe atmosphere.
The adjusting system of jaw crusher adopts shim block structure, staff gauge and special gear system to simplify the adjustment of discharge opening.

Web:http://www.crushingmill.com
http://www.grinderpro.com
http://www.vipeakgroup.com 
http://www.crushermobile.com
http://www.vipeak.com/en
http://www.crushertrade.com
http://www.vipeakgrinder.com
http://www.vipeakcrusher.com
