{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Age:'''
| 25
|-
| '''Location:'''
| Sherbrooke, Québec
|-
| '''Occupation:'''
| M.Sc Computer Science student.  Studying P2P network simulation in home automation context.  I'll be soon over with that.
|}

I'm a starting developer in Debian and Ubuntu.  I've started getting involved in the Debian project nearly 1 year ago and I've managed to grab the maintenance of the official Erlang packages.  I've since made a few more package from scratch, and patched a few other one.  I'm happy with triaging and fixing bug right now but I won't hide that my goal is to eventually become a MOTU, or, at least, a very active maintainer.

=== Packages I maintain ===

* Erlang (erlang-base, erlang-base-hipe, erlang-nox, erlang-x11, erlang-manpages, erlang-doc-html)

I plan to become involved with Dapper backporting team once Dapper is released, and I will probably add some more packages to that list, through REVU or Debian.

=== Bugs I'm hunting ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/arts/+bug/34983|34983]]</nowiki> - Arts freezes when using esound has a backend.

=== Patched bugs ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/libx11/+bug/34037|34037]]</nowiki> - Hacked the rules files
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/lprng/+bug/34409|34409]]</nowiki> - lprng not starting, suggested patch to the init script
* 38678 and <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=316708|Debian's 316708]]</nowiki> - Small patch to the version handling code to remove the epoch number.
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/yudit/+bug/36661|36661]]</nowiki> - The package was missing a build dependency
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/magic-haskell/+bug/38783|38783]]</nowiki> - Trivial patch to the source files.

=== Other bugs ===

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/37246|37246]]</nowiki> - Helped the user solve his problem locally.  It turned out to be a support issue and not a bug.

=== Bugs that killed me ===

None yet.
