{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| frank-villasenor
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| See Launchpad
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| (Not sure I have one yet)
|-
| '''IRC''':
| frank, frank01, frank001
|-
| '''Email''':
| See Launchpad
|}

=== About Me ===
I'm a professional software engineer and (concurrently) Software Engineering graduate student. I attend DePaul's Master of Science in Software Engineering program. I've been a professional software developer for the last 7 or 8 years and prior to joining the professional ranks, I've dabbled in software development and have had an entrepreneurial spirit since I was about 14.  

I've used Linux off and on for the last 10 years. About 3 years ago, I switch to using Ubuntu full time and have been very impressed with it. I hope to contribute to the Linux community in order to move open source forward.

=== Team Memberships ===

** Ubuntu Beginners Team

=== Future Plans & Projects ===
I simply want to on board in to the world of Ubuntu and become an effective contributor. At this time, I am unsure of where I could concentrate my effort. I hope to help where help is needed. 

==== Current Project & Goals ====
** Goal: On-board in to a single project and become a effective, productive and dependable team member.

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===
** Mainly just using Ubuntu since version 8.04, therefore "testing" it. :-) 

==== Support ====
None at this time.

==== Forum Guides: ====
None at this time. 

==== Wiki ====
None at this time. 

== Testimonials ==

----
CategoryHomepage
