{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am 33 years old and live in Düsseldorf, Germany. I am working as a Java Developer @ IBM.

My main IT skills are Java, C, HTML and (S)CSS. I also have some basic knowledge in Unix/Linux and shell scripting.
I mainly develop front-ends in Java FX, SWT, Swing, Java Web technologies with JSP, JSF and primefaces but also made some back-end work with Java EE beans.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| frederik-f
|-
| GTalk
| frederik.feichtmeier@gmail.com
|-
| Email
| frederik.feichtmeier@gmail.com
|-
| Website
| -
|}

=== Contributions ===

I contributed a lot of SCSS code for the Yaru gtk and gnome shell themes. I also contributed icons for the Yaru icon theme. Additionally I did a lot of organization and communication to keep the Yaru project rolling.

An overview of my contributions to yaru can be seen here: https://github.com/ubuntu/yaru/graphs/contributors
And here: https://github.com/ubuntu/gnome-shell-communitheme/graphs/contributors
At first I mostly did the shell theming. Later on I found my way into the GTK theming and Icon contributions.

We also discussed a lot on this thread on the community hub: https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/call-for-participation-an-ubuntu-default-theme-lead-by-the-community/1545
And here: https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/desktop/theme-refresh

Here are some bug's where I used the "assign to" feature of github before I fixed them: https://github.com/ubuntu/yaru/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+assignee%3AFeichtmeier
https://github.com/ubuntu/gnome-shell-communitheme/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+assignee%3AFeichtmeier

But there are many issues/bugs I fixed where I did not use that feature.
Lately I contributed without issues by just opening PRs on github.

=== Future Goals ===

My goal is to preserve the visual Ubuntu Design among the Ubuntu Desktop with it's own identity.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

Frederik has been a pillar in the Yaru project. He really helped keeping things moving in the right direction and tirelessly contributed to both on the community side (community.ubuntu.com discussions) and bug triaging, while still finding some time to work on fixing some of thus bugs. Without him, the default ubuntu theme wouldn't be what it is. I'm strongly in favor of him becoming an ubuntu member.

Didier Roche / didrocks - 04 March 2019
