{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Using FreeMind In Breezy (5.10) ===
This is a chronical for installing Free''''''Mind in Breezy. If you just want the quick make-it-work-now version skip to the <nowiki>[[#fromZip|Installing from Zip section]]</nowiki>. There is also a <nowiki>[[#troubleshoot|Troubleshooting]]</nowiki> section at the end.

See separate section at the end for Dapper

Someone was gracious enough to fill in the gaps so that <nowiki>[[#useDeb|Just Use the Deb]]</nowiki> should work now. This is, now, probably the quickest and easiest way to get Free''''''Mind running.

==== What is FreeMind ====
From the <nowiki>[[http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page|FreeMind homepage]]</nowiki>:<<BR>>
"''Free''''''Mind is a premier free mind-mapping software written in Java. The recent development has hopefully turned it into high productivity tool.''"

==== History ====
Free''''''Mind is not currently included in the apt repositories for Ubuntu. This isn't of much concern since the Free''''''Mind <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/freemind|download]]</nowiki> page provides a debian package and a zip version of the project; well at least it wasn't a concern in Hoary (5.04). Using Free''''''Mind with Breezy, is a bit of a different story beginning with the fact that it just didn't work anymore after upgrading from Hoary.

==== Installing from Zip ====
This is the step-by-step for the method that I found most useful in installing and setting up Free''''''Mind. It uses the zip download as opposed to the debian, details of why the debian was not used are in the section <nowiki>[[#useDeb|Just Use the Deb]]</nowiki>.

===== One =====
To the <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/freemind|downloads]]</nowiki> page, grab the zip file and save it in your home directory.

===== Two =====
Create the directory `/usr/share/freemind/` and unzip the files there. <pre>
sudo mkdir /usr/share/freemind
sudo unzip freemind-<tabkey> -d /usr/share/freemind/
sudo chmod 755 /usr/share/freemind/freemind.sh
</pre>
(`freemind-<tabkey>` should be the downloaded zip file.)

===== Three =====
Create link `/usr/bin/freemind -> /usr/share/freemind/freemind.sh` to the start script. <pre>
sudo ln -s /usr/share/freemind/freemind.sh /usr/bin/freemind
</pre>

===== Four =====
Add a menu option for the command `/usr/bin/freemind`.

===== Five =====
Update the start script so Free''''''Mind uses Sun Java. There's probably a more elegant way to make this change, and ''find'' the Sun Java path, but this works and I've already spent too much time resolving and documenting this.

<pre>
sudo vi /usr/share/freemind/freemind.sh
</pre>

Locate the method `findjava()` and add the line `JAVACMD=/usr/lib/j2re1.5-sun/bin/java` as shown below. The path could differ slightly if using a different version of Java.<pre>
                elif [ -x /usr/bin/java ]
                then
                        _debug "Using /usr/bin/java to find java virtual machine."
                        JAVACMD=/usr/bin/java
                fi
        fi

        JAVACMD=/usr/lib/j2re1.5-sun/bin/java

##### if we were successful, we return 0 else we complain and return 1
        if [ -n "${JAVACMD}" ] && [ -x "${JAVACMD}" ]
        then
                _debug "Using '$JAVACMD' as java virtual machine..."
</pre>

That's it for installation. Run Free''''''Mind, have fun! :))

==== Just Use the Deb ====
There's no need to read this section if you did the above and are just happy it's working. Typically 'Just Use the Deb' would be most peoples' thought, seeing the deb file available. Here's what I learned while attempting the deb install. The install successfully puts the required files in `/usr/share/freemind/` and creates a linked file from `/usr/bin/freemind` -> `/usr/share/freemind/freemind.sh`.  All good and well, the trouble is that the debian package specifies dependencies that are not met in Breezy.

Running

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i 'freemind_0.8.0-1_all.deb' ;echo RESULT=$?
</pre>

resulted in three unmet dependencies being displayed. Switching to the wonderful tool Synaptic, it also complained about the dependencies, as expected. However unlike normal, it didn't seem entirely positive how to resolve them. Manually searching, I found and installed two of the three packages. The third dependency `libforms-java`, I wasn't able to find.

Moral of the story, currently it seems that the Free''''''Mind debian from <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/|SourceForge]]</nowiki> is unhappy under breezy. As a result, i removed the debian freemind package.

'''Fix for libforms-java''' If you download and install the libforms-java.deb first using dpkg -i, then download the missing dependencies via synaptic, then (and then only) dpkg -i the freemind deb as described, all seems to work pretty much "out of the box". 

<pre>
sudo dpkg -r freemind ;echo RESULT=$?
</pre>

==== Troubleshooting ====
===== assertion failed: (data_fid != 0) =====
The following error, seems to be the result of running Free''''''Mind with the wrong Java runtime (ie non-Sun runtime). This is resolved in Installing from Zip - <nowiki>[[#zipFive|Step Five]]</nowiki>. Note: you'll see this error when running from the terminal, using a menu launcher I wasn't shown any error, Free''''''Mind just seemed to not start. Be sure that you give the correct path for the version of Java you are running; it could differ from the one above.

Someone else can fill in the detail of why, but my guess is by default Breezy is using the open java implementation instead of Suns Java, and Freemind is particular about its Java. To fix this we point Freemind directly to Sun Java.

The full error is <pre>
* ERROR **: file ../../../src/libjava/jni/gtk-peer/gnu_java_awt_peer_gtk_GtkImage.c: line 572 (createRawData): assertion failed: (data_fid != 0)
aborting...
/usr/share/freemind/freemind.sh: line 142: 11987 Aborted                 "${JAVACMD}" -Dfreemind.base.dir="${freedir}" -cp "${CLASSPATH}" freemind.main.FreeMind "$@"
</pre>

===== bash: /usr/bin/freemind: Permission denied =====
See Installing from Zip - <nowiki>[[#zipTwo|Step Two]]</nowiki> and verify that you chmod'ed freemind.sh correctly. It should show permissions `-rwxr-xr-x` if in a terminal you type <pre>
ls -l /usr/share/freemind
</pre>

==== Installing on Dapper Drake ====
The easiest way to install FreeMind on Dapper is to grab the .deb files from the freemind.sourceforge.net (listed under Debian Linux).  I used the file freemind_0.8.0-1_all.deb, and you'll also need to get libforms-java_1.0.5-2_all.deb.  Simply download thefiles to your desktop, double-click on them (start with the libforms file) and follow the instructions.  Finally you need to use Synaptic package manager to install libgcj7-awt - for some reason this doesn't get automatically installed.

As with earlier versions of Ubuntu, it's very important to use Sun's Java.  See the Restricted Formats wiki page for instructions on obtaining this.
