{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Free Ekanayaka, apply for upload rights for packages landscape-client and smart.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Free Ekanayaka
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~free.ekanayaka
|}

== Who I am ==

Despite my non-italian-sounding name (my father's from Sri Lanka), I grew up and live in Italy, Bologna, and yes, "Free" is my *real* name :)

I've been working for Canonical Ltd since March 2009 , as a Landscape Software Engineer, and before that I was working as developer at 64 Studio Ltd, focusing on custom distribution for audio and music products, based on Debian and Ubuntu. I'm a Debian Developer since 2004.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I used to develop a Debian-based distribution called 64 Studio, targeted to audio and multimedia applications (similar to Ubuntu Studio), contributing many new audio packages and patches to Debian and indirectly to Ubuntu. At some point we decided to base 64 Studio on Ubuntu rather than Debian, because it was providing a better and overall simpler user experience. I also developed an Ubuntu-based enterprise system and deployed it at a couple of companies, which are still happily running it.

=== My involvement ===

I'm upstream developer of the Landscape client, and contributor of Smart, which I'm also the Debian maintainer of. I keep maintaining a number of audio and multimedia packages in Debian, which eventually find their way in Ubuntu. I usually prefer to fix things as close as possible to the upstream (when it makes sense), so being Debian upstream of Ubuntu I tend to also work directly with it.

So to provide a quick overview of my work for Debian, here is the list of packages I'm involved in:

http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=freee@debian.org

and I'm one of the lead developers of the Debian Multimedia team:

http://wiki.debian.org/DebianMultimedia

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

I've worked on all the latest landscape-client and smart package uploads, and even succeeded in preparing an SRU for them.

=== Areas of work ===

I'm member of the Landscape team, and have a very good knowledge of the landscape-client code-base. As I'm the one with the broader packaging experience in the team, I've been also in charge of maintaining the packages for the landscape-client and smart, which I helped to improve as well.

=== Things I could do better ===

I wish I could devote some more time in mentoring and sponsoring people wanting to contribute and package applications for Debian and Ubuntu.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

Keep on working on new features for the Landscape client and smart, making them an ever better tool for managing Ubuntu systems, and eventually support configuration management as well.

And of course help out with Free Software's total world domination :)

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

The lack of a very integrated and killer configuration management system. As state above, I'd like to play a role in this.

== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''
== Nicolas Valcarcel ==
I work closely with Free on Debian as we co-maintain the augeas package, therefor i can assure he has the technical skills needed and he knows debian packaging perfectly, but i haven't work with him on ubuntu, so i can't assure his knowledge of the ubuntu specific processes. I'm sure Free is a trustable and desirable member of the ubuntu development team, therefor i will be happy to see his addition to the team.

== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
