{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Installation (Gutsy Gibbon 7.10 & Hardy Heron 8.04) ==

=== Hardy repository ===
In Hardy (8.04) freemind is included in the repository. Install it like any other ubuntu application. Though, as of this writing, the ubuntu repository has version 0.7.1 and the eric.lavar.de repository has version 0.8.1.

=== Guided installation ===

See the <nowiki>[[http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/FreeMind_on_Linux#Ubuntu_.26_Kubuntu|Freemind wiki's Ubuntu section]]</nowiki>.

=== Terminal commands ===

==== Release ====
<pre>
grep "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ unstable/" /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null || echo "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ unstable/" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null
grep "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ ubuntu/" /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null || echo "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ ubuntu/" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install sun-java5-jre freemind
</pre>

==== Beta ====
<pre>
grep "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ experimental/" /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null || echo "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ experimental/" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null
grep "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ ubuntu/" /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null || echo "deb http://eric.lavar.de/comp/linux/debian/ ubuntu/" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list >> /dev/null
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install freemind
</pre>
You also need to force eric lavar's libjibx-java to 1.0. Otherwise it will give an error saying the pattern file format has changed. You can do this by adding the following 3 lines to /etc/apt/preferences:
<pre>
Package: libjibx-java
Pin: version 1.0.*
Pin-Priority: 1001
</pre>

=== Note ===
The installation will warn that the freemind package can't be authenticated. In order to remove the harmless warning (and ensure authentication of the package) we need the gpg key for the repository. There is also <nowiki>[[http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Talk:FreeMind_on_Linux#Repositories_keys_.3F|a discussion for this on the freemind wiki]]</nowiki>.

== Installation (Dapper Drake 6.06) ==

The easiest way to install FreeMind on Dapper is to grab the .deb files from the freemind.sourceforge.net (listed under Debian Linux). I used the file freemind_0.8.0-1_all.deb, and you'll also need to get libforms-java_1.0.5-2_all.deb. Simply download thefiles to your desktop, double-click on them (start with the libforms file) and follow the instructions. Finally you need to use Synaptic package manager to install libgcj7-awt - for some reason this doesn't get automatically installed.

As with earlier versions of Ubuntu, it's very important to use Sun's Java. See the RestrictedFormats wiki page for instructions on obtaining this. 
