{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

An Ubuntu presence at the National Educational Computing Conference shall take place with the Ubuntu presence hosted by Yorktown High School (Arlington, VA), Technology Rescue, and Manheim Township School District (Lancaster, PA), the Linux E-mail Garden/Open Source Lab features students and educators engaged in an open source environment. Mini-workshops will be given hourly on free, open source software and its uses in the curriculum. Stop by, check your e-mail, and learn about GNU/Linux and other free software including GIMP, Open Office, MSQL, Firefox, and more.

The Chairman of the [DC Team] LoCo proposes that this [DC Team] LoCo wiki-space will be used for is coordination of Ubuntu presence at the NECC convention in Philadelphia at the end of June.  I have had a chance to gather some intelligence (I should be prostituting myself to the false gods of network security by writting aplogia for Federal Agencies that have made very poor operating systems and office software choices, but why should I care about getting paid :^), and these folksactually make the Ubuntu folks look ORGANIZED.

What this wiki-space will be used for is the coordination of the Ubuntu presence at the NECC.

So what Jeff means is that the [DC Team] LoCo will be using the current wiki space as a place to post logistic and staging informatio.  In fact this note will be there as a direction point.  I expect to eventually link these in an HTML format on the wiki when I get over the wolverine like interface for posting (obviously designed by people who read man pages) :^).

NECC convention in Philadelphia at the end of June.  I have had a chance Interesting things to know for now include:

** NECC is happening extremely close to the Phillidalphia train station
** Anyone under 16 years old will not be admitted
** There is no show management company, the NECC does it out of University of Washington
** The show takes place June 28th and 29th, Tuesday and Wednesday, 9am - ­5 pm; and 30 June, Thursday, 9 am - 2:30 pm
