{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* April 2nd - <nowiki>[[http://www.premier-samedi.org/|Premier Samedi du Libre]]</nowiki> in Paris<<BR>> This is a multi-distribution small install fest where around 60 people come to get help configuring and installing their Linux system.

* April 2nd - Install Party in Quimper

* April 3rd - Ubuntu Global Jam in Paris

* April 4th - Ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* April 5th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organisation meeting

* April 4th - Ubuntu-fr-infra meeting

* April 10th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organisation meeting

* April 10th - Install Party in Saint-Ouen

* April 11th - Ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* April 16th - Permanence associative in Dijon

* April 16th and 17th - Week-end du libre in Angers where we helped for an install fest and some talks about Ubuntu.

* April 16th and 17th - Salon Angevin du Multimédia in Angers where we hold a both

* April 18th - Ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* April 19th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organisation meeting

* April 21th - Jeudi de la bidouille in Lyon

* April 24th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organisation meeting

* April 25th - Ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* April 28th - Release Party in Lyon and Paris

* April - We finaly switched our websites to our new servers. We are now ready to optimize them and add more tools like Sympa and Help. We started to test seeks for the internal searches on all our domain.
