{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* June 1st : <nowiki>[[http://www.agu3l.org/|meeting]]</nowiki> about Linux and freedom in Meythet.

* June from 1st to 3rd : <nowiki>[[http://artischaud.org/?page_id=413|Festival Tant Libre !]]</nowiki> in Meyzieu, where we had a booth.

* June 2nd : <nowiki>[[http://premier-samedi.org/infos/juin-2012/|premier samedi du libre]]</nowiki> (PSL) in Paris. This is a multi-distribution small install fest where around 60 people come to get help configuring and installing their Linux system. 

* June 2nd : <nowiki>[[http://www.mjc-chevalblanc.fr/index.php5?page=linux|meeting]]</nowiki> of Linux club in Wintzenheim.

* June 6th : Ubuntu Hour in Paris, in a bar where we drank beers and took a good moment.

* June 7th : Ubuntu Hour in Paris, in an other bar.

* June 9th : meeting in Cognac, about Ubuntu and other free softwares.

* June 10th : Ubuntu Party 12.04 in Paris (debriefing).

* June 15th : initiation to Linux with Ubuntu in Quimperlé.

* June from 19th to 21th : <nowiki>[[http://www.solutionslinux.fr/|Solutions Linux]]</nowiki> in Paris.

* June 23th : Install Party in Aix-en-Provence.

* June 27th : <nowiki>[[http://www.intertice.fr/interTICE-Logiciels-Libres|interTICE 2012 – Logiciels libres]]</nowiki>, where we had a booth. It's an event for teachers, with the participation of Richard Stallman this year.

* June 28th : <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/evenements/2012_06_28_reunion_association_log|IRC meeting]]</nowiki> of the Ubuntu-fr LoCo.
