{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* July 2nd - <nowiki>[[http://www.premier-samedi.org/|Premier Samedi du Libre]]</nowiki> in Paris<<BR>> This is a multi-distribution small install fest where around 60 people come to get help configuring and installing their Linux system.

* July 6th - Ubuntu Hour in Paris<<BR>>Organized to welcome our canadian friends desrt and mimico, we were around 15 people.

* July 9th to 14th - <nowiki>[[http://2011.rmll.info/spip.php?lang=en|RMLL]]</nowiki> in Strasbourg <<BR>>2011 Libre Software Meeting is a free (as a beer and as a speech) and non commercial conference with talks, workshops and round tables about Free Software and its uses. The LSM goal is to provide a place for exchange between Free Software developers, users and stakeholders. Ubuntu-fr was there on a booth and hold also a permanent install fest. This year the event introduced the free beer, a beer with an free recipe.

* July 14th to 17th -  <nowiki>[[http://www.vieillescharrues.asso.fr/|Festival des Vieilles Charrues]]</nowiki> in Carhaix<<BR>> The Vieilles Charrues invited us for the third time to hold a webcafe on Ubuntu for the festival-goers. We didn't put any restriction, neither on which website were accessible, neither on Ubuntu, as we wanted people to discover it. This year our multi-site was ready, and the 12 desktop sessions ran on only 2 computers with the help of <nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/Xephyr|Xephyr]]</nowiki>.
* July 23th - Ubuntu Hour in Paris<<BR>> organized at the last minute we go to a japanese restaurant to eat sushis.

* July 25th - Ubuntu Hour in Paris<<BR>>We join with our Mozilla friends to share a drink, it was also the last time with desrt and mimico who have to go back to canada.
