{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* May 3rd - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organization meeting

* May 7th - <nowiki>[[http://www.premier-samedi.org/|Premier Samedi du Libre]]</nowiki> in Paris<<BR>> This is a multi-distribution small install fest where around 60 people come to get help configuring and installing their Linux system.

* May 8th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organization meeting

* May 10th, 11th, 12th - Solution Linux in Paris, It's a professional event were we are going and hold a both. It's a great opportunity to talk about the community and to share our ressources with others.

* May 14th - Natty Party chez Giroll in Bordeaux, great install party, workshops, talks, demonstrations, accessibility and a webradio covering the event.

* May 14th - Install Party 11.04 in Saint-Seurin sur L'Isle

* May 17th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organization meeting

* May 18th - Install Party in Arras

* May 21st - Journée Corrézienne du Libre in Tulle, workshops, conferences, demonstrations and installations.

* May 21th - Découverte des logiciels libres et d’Ubuntu in Aubazines

* May 21th - Install Party in Romorantin Lanthenay organised by Lolix

* May 22th - Ubuntu Party 11.04 in Paris - Organization meeting, the last before the event

* May 27th, 28yh, 29th - Ubuntu Party in Paris, the biggest public event on Ubuntu, with 135 volunteers, 6 month of organization, 22 hours of conferences, 14 hours of courses, 10 hours of workshops, 3 days of installation, 3 days of continuous demonstrations, 3 days of games, 3 days of amazing experience for everyone.

* May - We started to test Sympa to hold our mailing lists (<nowiki>[[http://listes.ubuntu-fr.org/]]</nowiki>), we also are using seeks for the search on our forum. To improve the documentation speed, we are experimenting the cache service Varnish for anonymous readers, it's really efficient.
