{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

'''The French and french speaking community.'''

=== Information ===

==== Association ====

Ubuntu-fr is a French non profit association (loi 1901) giving a well defined juridic status allowing to conduct our various actions to promote Ubuntu and free software.

Association board is composed of :
* Islem Abd-El Rahman (snip)
* Rudy André (cm-t)
* Olivier Fraysse (Olive), vice president
* Matthieu Joossen (amgie), treasurer
* Thomas Joossen (Karum), president
* Frédéric Mandé (quesh)
* Anfissa Yevtihidis (Androsème), secretary

==== French website ====

The association manage the various websites '''<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org|ubuntu-fr.org]]</nowiki>''' trying to gather all Frecnh-speaking resources about '''Ubuntu''', '''Kubuntu''', '''Xubuntu''', '''Edubuntu''', '''UNE''', '''Server''' and the other Ubuntu variants available in repositories. We manage:
* a <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org|portal]]</nowiki> containing basic information that we renew slightly sometimes,
* a very complete and open to everyone <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org|french documentation]]</nowiki>, willing to be as simple as possible and comprehensive.
* a very active <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org|forum]]</nowiki> where anyone can come and ask any questions,
* a <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntu-fr.org|planet]]</nowiki> grouping French blogs about Ubuntu,
* irc channels #ubuntu-fr to help users and #ubuntu-fr-offtopic to discuss various topics, that anyone can join using his favorite irc client on irc.freenode.net or using <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fr.org/webchat|the web chat page]]</nowiki>.
* a complete francophone mailing list <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-fr|ubuntu-fr@lists.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki> where users can also find help,and also <nowiki>[[http://listes.ubuntu-fr.org/|other mailing lists]]</nowiki> for our needs.

Theses various resources are available thanks to numerous volunteers, who manage them with great care. Please comply to the few <nowiki>[[http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/codedeconduite|codes of conduct]]</nowiki> (translated from the official Code of conduct).

You can contact administration teams by writing to <nowiki>[[mailto:ca@ubuntu-fr.org|ca at ubuntu-fr.org]]</nowiki>.

==== Activities ====

Follow the French and francophone events on <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org]]</nowiki>.

<nowiki>[[FrenchTeam-TeamReports|List of our activities on this wiki]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
