{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

* July 3rd : <nowiki>[[http://www.premier-samedi.org/|Premier Samedi du Libre]]</nowiki> in Paris<<BR>> This is a multi-distribution small install fest where around 60 people use to come for help on configuring and installing Linux.

* July 5th : weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* July 6th to 11th : <nowiki>[[http://2010.rmll.info/spip.php?lang=en|RMLL]]</nowiki> in Bordeaux <<BR>>2010 Libre Software Meeting is a free (as a beer and as a speech) and non commercial conference with talks, workshops and round tables about Free Software and its uses. The LSM goal is to provide a place for exchange between Free Software developers, users and stakeholders. Ubuntu-fr was there on a booth and hold also a permanent install fest. We had a live feed via a webcam also on the install room.

* July 12th : weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* July 15th to 18th : <nowiki>[[http://www.vieillescharrues.asso.fr/|Festival des Vieilles Charrues]]</nowiki> in Carhaix<<BR>> The Vieilles Charrues invited us for the second time to hold a webcafe on Ubuntu for the festival-goers. We didn't put any restriction, neither on which website were accessible, neither on Ubuntu, as we wanted people to discover it. The only tweaks were password and history saving disabled and a custom homepage. We also had a live feed via a webcam. <nowiki>[[http://blog.yoboy.fr/post/2010/07/Ubuntu-fr-at-Les-Vieilles-Charrues|story]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?id=407788|photos]]</nowiki>

* July 20th : <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrenchTeam/ApprovalApplication|French Team re-approval]]</nowiki><<BR>> We attended to the LoCoCouncil meeting to apply for our team re-approval, to keep our Official Team status. It was a good opportunity to make a check point of all our activities.

* July 25th : The Parisien Free software user group use to have a outdoor party the last weekend of each summer month, which we attented. 

* July 26th : weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting
