{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

* Saturday 5th - <nowiki>[[http://www.parinux.org/content/install-party-ubuntu-vincennes-et-premier-samedi|Install Party]]</nowiki> in Vincennes, Paris suburbs.<<BR>> Around 10 people have got some help on installing Ubuntu.

* Saturday 5th - <nowiki>[[http://www.premier-samedi.org/|Premier Samedi du Libre]]</nowiki> in Paris<<BR>> This is a multi-distribution small install fest where around 60 people come to get help configuring and installing their Linux system.

* Saturday 5th and Sundnay 6th - FOSDEM <<BR>> Some Ubuntu-fr teammates gave a hand at the Ubuntu booth in Brussels Fosdem. Thanks to <nowiki>[[http://launchpad.net/~janc|JanC]]</nowiki> for his invitation. More details on <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Fosdem/2011|Fosdem/2011]]</nowiki>

* Monday 7th - weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* Wednesday 9th - Launch of our new design for the french documentation.

* Wednesday 9th - <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-dijon.org/2011/01/25/soiree-du-libre-comme-sur-un-nuage-avec-ubuntu-one/|Soirée Ubuntu One]]</nowiki> a conference about UbuntuOne in Dijon. <<BR>>Drinking and eating event with discussion about UbuntuOne solution.

* Saturday 12th - <nowiki>[[http://www.paulla.asso.fr/index.php/Latest/ubuntu-party-a-la-cyber-base-de-pau-le-12-fevrier.html|Install Party]]</nowiki> in Pau

* Monday 14th - weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* Wednesday 16th - <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org/2011-02-16-pause-ubuntu-a-paris/|Ubuntu Hour]]</nowiki> in Paris

* Thursday 17th - <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-lyon.org/?page=News&news=255|Jeudi de la bidouille]]</nowiki> in Lyon <<BR>> Jeudi de la bidouille is a hacking session. Other distribution hacktivist are welcome to share experience and knowledge.

* Saturday 19th - <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-dijon.org/2011/01/13/permanence-associative-3/|Associative meeting]]</nowiki> in Dijon <<BR>> Regular event to inform about Ubuntu, in Dijon.

* Sunday 20th - Workshop for the organisation of Ubuntu Party in Paris, we wrote and send a letter to invite groups of college students.

* Monday 21st - weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting

* Monday 21st - IRC meeting and workshop to rewrite the content of our event site <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-party.org/]]</nowiki>

* Saturday 26th - <nowiki>[[http://www.aldil.org/events/install-party-de-logiciels-libres-MPT201102|Install Party]]</nowiki> in Lyon <<BR>> Install party.

* Monday 28th - weekly ubuntu-fr-webteam meeting
