{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE''': This page is part of the Ubuntu Specification process.  Please check the status and details in Launchpad before editing.  If the spec is Approved then you should contact the Assignee, or another knowledgeable person, before making changes.

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/products/fridge/+spec/rosetta-available

=== Summary ===

Make it possible for the community to spontaneously translate the Fridge into other languages through Rosetta.

=== Rationale ===

Fridge is a community portal, and the community is global. English might be the most popular language, but is not the only one, for sure.

=== Use cases ===

José is not Joe, and thus does not speak English. Help poor José.

=== Scope ===

All FridgeContent.

=== Design ===

Create localised fridge pages that will pull PO files from Rosetta automatically (hopefully it's doable on a daily basis).

=== Implementation ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

* How can the Fridge export POT files?
* Will translators be fast enough to keep up with the Fridge?
* How will the translations be published?
* How can the translated PO files be converted back to whatever format is used for publishing the translations?

----
CategorySpec
