{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


We have several methods for people to submit stories to be published.

==== Method: Submit via email to ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com ====

'''Description:''' This method is the same as with the old Fridge. It has the advantage of allowing all people involved with the News Team to see it, which increases the chances of it getting posted to the Fridge quickly. The potential downside to this method is that all messages sent to this mailing list are available in a public archive (https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-news-team/). This means that the submitters message, name, and email address are made public, and you can't submit stories anonymously.

==== Method: Submit in #ubuntu-news on irc.libera.chat ====

'''Description:''' Most members of the News Team idle in #ubuntu-news on irc.libera.chat. If you request a story get published on the Fridge in this channel, it is very likely that an Editor will get it posted. Some disadvantages of this method are that not all Editors are in the channel 24/7, so they might miss the request. It is also hard to submit more than just a link to an article to be reposted via this method. However, this method does allow users to submit articles relatively anonymously (their IP address is public and the request is logged on irclogs.ubuntu.com, but there is no real name or email address made public).

==== Method: Email editor.ubuntu.news@ubuntu.com ====

'''Description:''' If none of the above methods work for you, you can email editor.ubuntu.news@gmail.com as a last resort. Several Fridge Editors have access to this account, and check it for new submissions. The benefit to this method is that it allows people to submit stories via email without having their email displayed in a public archive (like with ubuntu-news-team@lists.ubuntu.com). The downside to this method is that only a few editors have access to this account.
