{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== KubuntuIbook ==

Notes on installing Kubuntu on a iBook G4.

=== My iBook ===
12" G4 1.2Ghz  768MB RAM

=== Suspend to RAM ===
Works.

* DRI works too.

=== F11 and F12 mousebutton functions ===
Works

=== Fn-buttons ===
Works out of the box with the 'pbbuttonsd' package.

=== How to type special characters like @{[]} without alt-gr ===
Go to: 
Control Center -> Regional & Accessibility -> 
Keyboard Layout -> Xkb Options (tab) -> [X] Enable xkb options -> 
Third level choosers -> [X] Press left Win-key to choose 3rd level.

=== WLAN ===
The Airport Extreme internal wlan card works with the bcm43xx driver.
You need firmware.
Install the package: 'bcm43xx-fwcutter' (it's in universe)
And run: 
{{{
$ sudo /usr/share/bcm43xx-fwcutter/install_bcm43xx_firmware.sh }}}

=== External monitor ===
Works. 
I use MergeFB and xrandr to be able to use 1024x768 (laptop lcd) left of 1280x1024 (external lcd) with DRI.
With xrandr I can connect/disconnect the external monitor whenever I want, and a simple 'xrandr -s' command (or double-click a icon on the desktop as I do) changes the Meta-Mode from 1024+1280 to 1024 in clone mode (external lcd becomes a clone of the internal). Everything without restarting X or logging out.

=== TODO ===
More info here.
