{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== FrodeDoeving ==

=== ABOUT ME ===

* Linux user since 1999, Debian user since 2001, Kubuntu user since 01.2005.
* Joined (k)ubuntu to support a good distribution, and a great community.
* Ubuntu member since 25.05.2005

=== WHY HELP UBUNTU? ===
* It's my favorite distribution and I'd like to participate making it even better.
* I like to share my knowledge and experience with others.
* I like to help people get comfortable using linux, and (k)ubuntu, to do their daily computing tasks.

=== ME AND UBUNTU ===
* Availability: part time. (evenings and weekends).
* Special interests: KDE (Kubuntu), packaging and testing. Small QT/KDE programming tasks.

=== WIKIS ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuUpgrade|KubuntuUpgrade]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/FrodeDoeving/Work|Work]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/FrodeDoeving/Tips|Tips]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/FrodeDoeving/iBook|iBook]]</nowiki>

=== SUPPORT/CONTACT: ===
You can find me:
* as fdoving (was uniq) at freenode in #kubuntu, #kubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-devel, #ubuntu-motu, #ubuntu-no ++
* as fdoving at oftc in #kubuntu and #ubuntu
* as fdoving at ubuntuforums.org - http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?userid=11024
* as fdoving at forum.ubuntu.no - http://forum.ubuntu.no/index.php?action=profile;u=4
* as fdoving at kubuntuforums.net
* as fdoving at linux1.no/forum/
* as frode at launchpad.net - http://launchpad.net/people/frode

----
CategoryHomepage
