{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== MY WORK: ==

=== INFO ===
* Launchpad page: http://launchpad.net/people/frode
* New home of my ubuntu files: http://ubuntu.lnix.net/ .
* My old ubuntu related files can be found at: http://frode.kde.no/ubuntu/ .

=== TODO ===
* -

=== PENDING ===
* IRC and forum support.
* Bughunting.
 
=== DONE ===
* BUG: Request schedutils 1.5.0 sync from Debian unstable as it's much cleaner than ours. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/schedutils/+bug/72540|#72540]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Patch schedutils 1.5.0 to build on feisty/ppc.
* FIX: Patch kopete to fix icq connection problem: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kopete/+bug/69583|#69583]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kopete/+bug/69494|#69494]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Patch apt. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/69148|#69148]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Patch kdebase, fix a spellingmistake in kdebase. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/67610|#67610]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Spelling mistake in kdeedu (kvoctrain) debian/control. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bug/59059|#59059]]</nowiki>
* DOC: Make <nowiki>[[https://wiki.kubuntu.org/KubuntuUpgrade|KubuntuUpgrade]]</nowiki> and test the process.
* PKG: mailscanner 4.55.10-3 for dapper. <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.lnix.net/archive/dapper/mailscanner_4.55.10-3ubuntu0_all.deb|Get it!]]</nowiki>
* UVF exception ipodslave 0.7.2 -> 0.7.3 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/ipodslave/+bug/42635|#42635]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Patch for kdeedu to move some html docs from application packages to kdeedu-html-doc.
* FIX: Patch for knoda to close <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/31447|#31447]]</nowiki>
* FIX: A patch for kdebase to close <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/39599|#39599]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Patch for kubuntu-default-settings to make ctrl+f open 'find file..' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/32350|#32350]]</nowiki>
* FIX: Made a patch for kdeedu to close <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdeedu/+bug/30732|#30732]]</nowiki>
* PKG: Rosegarden4 1.2.3 with DSSI support. Please test. http://ubuntu.lnix.net/dapper/
* PKG: dssi for dapper: http://ubuntu.lnix.net/dapper/
* PKG: kio-apt for dapper. Asked for UVF Exception. https://launchpad.net/malone/35921
* GFX: give kio-apt a nicer kubuntified look.
* PKG: ipodslave updated. http://ubuntu.lnix.net/
* PKG: kio-apt for breezy.
* PKG: ipodslave cleanups. uploaded to <nowiki>[[http://siretart.tauware.de/revu|REVU]]</nowiki>
* BLD: build KDE 3.4.1 and koffice 1.4 for amd64.
* FIX: ggz-kde-clients gcc4 fix.
* BLD: buildt koffice 1.4 for powerpc. packages available at http://kubuntu.org
* PKG: fix kbandwidth package.
* FIX: ggz-kde-games gcc4 fix.
* PKG: kio-locate - uploaded to breezy.
* BLD: kde 3.4.1 - building kde 3.4.1 for ppc. they are now available in the http://kubuntu.org/hoary-kde341 repository.
* PKG: konversation - 0.17 merged with debian. 
* BFX: knetworkconf-knemo conflict bugfix - https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=11206
* PKG: ipodslave
* PKG: gamin - Got reports about gam_server using 95% CPU, packaged gamin verison 0.1.0 for ubuntu for testing.
* BLD: kdenetwork - I compiled Jonathan Riddell's new kdenetwork packages for AMD64.
* PKG: aterm - re-packaged for ubuntu to fix a cut & paste problem: https://launchpad.ubuntu.com/malone/bugs/451
* PKG: yzis (includes kyzis) - test packages for my self.
* PKG: kbandwidth - test package.
* PKG: update rosegarden4 - package done.
        00:14 < Riddell> uniq: rosegarden4_1.0-1ubuntu1_source.changes ACCEPTED
