{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a resident  of the northeastern United States  and have been using Ubuntu /Linux  since 2010. I joined the Ubuntu  Wisconsin Lo Co Team in  April 2012 and have now applied for membership the New York Lo Co Team.The majority of my work experience is in commercial electronics manufacturing, producing and testing various assemblies.I also have many hobbies and some include biking , computers, playing guitar, and recording original music.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| frogshair@irc
|-
| Launchpad
| https://launchpad.net/~detaill
|-
| Ubuntu User
| #31515
|}

=== Contributions ===

My Ubuntu journey began after I read a review of Ubuntu 9.10 and installed via wubi and then quickly moved to a dual boot system. One day while visiting Ubuntu Forums I decided to leave the community cafe and start assisting users in support sub-forums which has become an almost daily practice that I wish to continue as time resources  allow.In 2013 or so I became a Ubuntu Member an later a forum moderator. 

Along the way, there has been involvement in testing and some bug reporting of most Ubuntu releases since 9.10. My contributions have been sustained and always well intended. I really enjoy assisting new Ubuntu users as they customize and learn about their desktops. The goal is provide answers and information about the Ubuntu operating system in general. To write that I have learned through helping others is an understatement! My ever increasing   knowledge of Linux and sense of community are extremely rewarding.            

=== Future Goals ===

Future goals include  increasing my knowledge of Ubuntu /Linux with the help of Ubuntu community members, documentation, and experience.It is my goal to improve my ability to help others within to forum community and beyond. I will continue to learn about the many new desktop environments available to Ubuntu users and assist whenever possible. I will continue to spread Ubuntu awareness when opportunities are presented. 

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here. 
