{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Fumihito YOSHIDA

* LP: https://launchpad.net/~hito
* Email: <<hito(_a_t_)kugutsu(d.o.t)org>>>>
* IRC: hito_jp

=== About ===
I am member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~japaneseteam |Ubuntu Japanese LoCo]]</nowiki> Team, Im work on mirror server maintenance(include Japanese official country mirror), translation, documentation, offline event planning.

=== Current Activities ===
==== Mirror servers administration ====
Im administrator of some Japanese mirror servers.
* Archive mirrors 
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp/ | ubuntutym.u-toyama.ac.jp]]</nowiki> (This is "jp.archive.ubuntu.com"; Japanese official country mirror)
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp | ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp]]</nowiki> 
* CDImages mirrors
** <nowiki>[[http://ubuntutym2.u-toyama.ac.jp | ubuntutym2.u-toyama.ac.jp]]</nowiki>(CD/DVD)

==== Authorship ====
I wrote some ubuntu related articles in Japanese local magazines;

* <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp | gihyo.jp]]</nowiki>(web magazine/portal by local publishing outfit "'''Gi'''jutsu-'''Hyo'''uron-Sya".)
** "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/serial/01/ubuntu-recipe | Ubuntu Weekly Recipes]]</nowiki>" : Tips for Ubuntu Desktop
** "<nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/admin/clip/01/ubuntu-topics/ | Ubuntu Weekly Topics]]</nowiki>" : News of Ubuntu related things
* "Software Design" (it is local magazine for software developpers)
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2009/200901 | Jan 2009]]</nowiki> : "Guidance of Storages"; Chapter 2 "Software RAID on Linux"
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200812 | Dec 2008]]</nowiki> : "Learning Unix Technologies -- What is init daemons"
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200811 | Nov 2008]]</nowiki> : "Early review of Ubuntu 8.10"
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200807 | Jul 2008]]</nowiki> : "andLinux -- Linux that Working on Windows; Use Ubuntu on your Windows system!"
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2008/200806 | Jun 2008]]</nowiki> : "Fonts knowledgebase for PC Unix" ; Chapter1 "Details of Font elements" ; Chapter2 "Inside font handlings on PC-Unix Environment"
** <nowiki>[[http://gihyo.jp/magazine/SD/archive/2007/200710 | Oct 2007]]</nowiki> : "Go on with Ubuntu!" ; Chapter 2 "Installing Ubuntu, install into HDD, and make your customized CD/USB pendrives" ; Chapter 5 "Troubleshooting Ubuntu"

and so on....

==== Relationship/Seminar ====
Local Forum:
* Moderation of <nowiki>[[http://forum.ubuntulinux.jp/ |  Japanese team Forum]]</nowiki>, answering Japanese Ubuntu users.

Event/Seminars:
* "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/ | Open Source Conference(OSC)]]</nowiki>"
** OSC2007 Tokyo/Fall : Seminar : "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2007-fall/modules/eguide/event.php?eid=45 |Entering Launchpad -- Guidance for Ubuntu contributing]]</nowiki>"
** OSC2008 Tokyo/Spring : Seminar : "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-spring/modules/eguide/event.php?eid=49 |Ubuntu on EeePC]]</nowiki>"  
** OSC2008 Kansai : Seminar : "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2008-kansai/modules/eguide/event.php?eid=22 |Ubuntu 45 minutes cooking]]</nowiki>"
** OSC 2009 Sendai : Seminar : "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2009-sendai/modules/eguide/event.php?eid=5 |Using Ubuntu]]</nowiki>"
** OSC 2009 Tokyo/Spring : Seminar : "<nowiki>[[http://www.ospn.jp/osc2009-spring/modules/eguide/event.php?eid=7 |Ubuntu offline mini meeting]]</nowiki>"

* <nowiki>[[http://www.jus.or.jp/ jus]]</nowiki> (Japan Unix Society)
** May 2008; Seminar "<nowiki>[[http://www.jus.or.jp/benkyokai/08-05.html |Desktop Unix Environment with Ubuntu -- Unix Desktop are no longer difficult]]</nowiki>"

* "Ubuntu Offline Meeting Tokyo"
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntulinux.jp/Offline200901Report/En | Ubuntu Offline Meeting Tokyo 9.01]]</nowiki>w
*** Planning & stagehanding & presantation.
** Ubuntu Offline Meeting Tokyo 9.04
*** Work in progress... (Planning & stagehandlng)

=== Plans and ideas ===

1) Better experience for Japanese people.

Im member of Ubuntu Japanse LoCo, and we(Japanese Loco) releases "Ubuntu Japanese Remix". It is including some our original packages and configurations. I had/would support release engineering and steering technical issues in past/now/future.

And, I am root of jp.archive.ubuntu.com and some mirror servers. Ill maintain their server as high-reliability. 

2) TOMOYO Linux support.

I suggest a new MAC(Mandetory Access Control; It is often called "Secure OS") feature that named "<nowiki>[[http://tomoyo.sourceforge.jp/en/2.2.x/ | TOMOYO Linux]]</nowiki>". This is another aproach of path-based Secure OS like AppArmor. And yet, TOMOYO is not only Secure OS. This aproach as "VFS Profiler" that can loggin *all* VFS based accessing. It helpful for general debugging, bottleneck analysis.

We can use mainline-kernel 2.6.30 or 31(TOMOYO is accepted in Linux-next now!).

3) Packaging legacy coding related software.

Some obsoleted charset still live in Japan by traditional(legacy) reason, for example, EUC-JP, CP932, ISO-2022-JP, and these variants. They have a lot of assets (host's LANG env variables, text documents, TeX documents, filenames and so on. And, Japanese formal e-mail are not UTF-8, UTF-8 are likely taboo. We have to use ISO-2022-JP by mythical rule of conduct).

I'll packaging some codings relates software, current problem will be looking up.

* cocot ; COde COnverter on Tty (still in my PPA)

=== My Background ===

Computing are my business and my hobby. My mainline of business are computer fablic engineer. This provides cluster(grid) computing, HPC, secure computing and so on.

I use Windows, *BSD, Open Solaris, and Ubuntu.

My hope: *All people* embrace ubuntu as a "yet another good operating system". I know that Windows are not only alternatives (Windows are very good leaf, and we have amazing large rod that called FOSS).

We can provide alternatives.

...

=== Endorsements for Ubuntu Membership ===

I've seen Yoshida-san's extensive work with the LoCo team, the coordination of the Ubuntu Japanese Remix, and the Japan mirror servers.  Yoshida-san is active in user support, both directly, and  in assisting with translation and coordination of issues reported by Japanese users in the Ubuntu bug tracker.  Yoshida-san's presentations typically command significant audiences, many of whom are being exposed to Ubuntu for the first time: they are well delivered, interesting, and often demonstrate features only recently introduced to Ubuntu.  I fully support his application for Ubuntu Membership -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:persia]]</nowiki> 
----
CategoryHomepage
