{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== What is Launchpad? ==

<nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net|Launchpad]]</nowiki>, developed by <nowiki>[[https://www.canonical.com/|Canonical]]</nowiki>, is a system used to keep track of many aspects of open-source development. Launchpad's features include code hosting, bug tracking, translation, feature blueprints and a community-based answer tracker.

== What is the purpose of Launchpad with regards to Ubuntu? ==

Launchpad is for Ubuntu users to provide debugging logs to developers, so developers may root cause, and fix bugs and enhance features in software provided by Ubuntu.

Launchpad is also used for managing Ubuntu projects.

== FAQs ==

* Looking for information on developing Launchpad itself? -> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Looking for Ubuntu technical support or have a question about Ubuntu? -> <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/support]]</nowiki>
* Want to report a bug in Ubuntu? -> <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs]]</nowiki>
* Want to report spam on Launchpad? Need to transfer team ownership? Ask a question at: <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Want to merge your multiple Launchpad accounts? Request this from: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/+requestmerge]]</nowiki>
