{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Motivation ==

Creating zope3 applications is no easy task.  This document comes out of a desire to help
build a zope3 user community in support of School''''''Tool and the Can''''''Do competency tracking
application which is being built on top of School''''''Tool.

The goal here is to keep things as simple as possible.  Zope3 is extremely complex, and the
learning curve is steep to say the least.  I'm assuming that the aspiring zope3 developer
here will be using Ubuntu Dapper (or Edgy), and running their zope instance from their home
directly on the port specified in their '''zope.conf''' file.

== Installation ==

For the following commands, you will need sudo privileges:
  0. make sure you have the following packages installed (<code>sudo apt-get install subversion make gcc python-dev libc6-dev</code>):
*** subversion
*** make
*** gcc
*** python-dev
*** libc6-dev
## <code>cd /usr/local/src</code>
## <code>sudo svn co svn://svn.zope.org/repos/main/Zope3/trunk Zope3</code>
## <code>cd Zope3</code>
## <code>sudo make</code>
## <code>sudo python test.py -v</code>  (to run all the tests. note use <code>sudo python test.py -vpf1</code> if a test fails and you want to know which one.)
## <code>sudo ln -s /usr/local/src/Zope3/bin/mkzopeinstance /usr/local/bin/mkzopeinstance</code>

Developers don't need sudo privileges for the following:
## <code>cd ~</code> (to get to your home directory)
## <code>mkzopeinstance</code>
## For <code>Directory:</code> we will be using <code>zope3</code> in the user's home directory (<code>/home/<username>/zope3</code>).
## Choose a username for the initial administrator account (for example <code>zopeuser</code>).
## Select a password manager from among:  Plain Text, MD5, and SHA1. (Text is least secure, SHA1 is most secure).
## Enter your password twice.

You should now have a <code>zope3</code> directory inside your home directory containing an
instance of zope3.

== Starting zope ==

As the developer from your home directory, there are two easy ways to start your zope3 instance:
## <code>./zope3/bin/runzope</code>
## <code>./zope3/bin/zopectl start</code>

For testing new code use <code>runzope</code>. Messages and debugging information will
applear in the console, and you will be able to see when zope fails to start.
Keep in mind that when using <code>runzope</code> the application server will stop when
you close the terminal from which it is run or interrupt it by typing <code>Ctrl-C</code>, so to keep the server running
use <code>zopectl start</code>. When running with <code>zopectl start</code>, you can stop it
with <code>zopectl stop</code> and check the status with <code>zopectl status</code>.

If there will be other zope instances running on your machine, the default port, 8080, may already
be in use.  To change the port on which your instance runs, do the following:
## edit <code>./zope3/etc/zope.conf</code>
## change the section:{{{
  <server>
    type HTTP
    address 8080
  </server>}}} to use the desired port.

Users should now be able to run your zope instance.  To administer your instance, login with the username
you chose earlier (e.g. <code>zopeuser</code>).

== Setting PYTHONPATH ==

In order to be able to import and run your zope code from the command line, add the following
to the bottom of your <code>.bashrc</code> file: {{{
PYTHONPATH=/usr/local/src/Zope3/src:$HOME/zope3/lib/python

export PYTHONPATH}}}

== External Documentation ==

# http://www.treefernwebservices.co.nz/hello.html
# http://zissue.berlios.de/z3/hello.swf
# http://www.benjiyork.com/quick_start/
# http://zissue.berlios.de/z3/Zope3In30Minutes.html
# http://worldcookery.com/files/jeffshell-todo
# http://python.taupro.com/Zope3Notes/HowToContentComponent
# http://www.ibiblio.org/obp/pyBiblio/zope3

----
