{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Description ==

<nowiki>[[lighttpd]]</nowiki> is a secure, fast, compliant, and very flexible web-server that has been optimized for high-performance environments. It has a very low memory footprint compared to other webservers and takes care of cpu-load. Its advanced feature-set (FastCGI, CGI, Auth, Output-Compression, URL-Rewriting and many more) make lighttpd the perfect webserver-software for every server that suffers load problems.

For more info go to http://www.lighttpd.net/

== 1.4 Releases ==

The 1.4 series is the latest series available in the repositories. This will guide you through installing Lighttpd and PHP5 on Karmic (9.10) or Lucid (10.04).

=== Lighttpd ===

To install lighttpd, simply run in a terminal:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install lighttpd
</pre>
This will automatically install Lighttpd, start it, and set it to run at boot.

You can access your web server by going to "http://localhost" in any web browser on the local machine, or "http://serverip" (where serverip is the IP address of the computer running lighttpd) from any other computer on the network.

The root of the web server is at "/var/www/html" and the configuration file is "/etc/lighttpd/lighttpd.conf".

=== Enabling User Directories ===

With user directories enabled, each user can have their own web directory in their home folder.

To enable user directories, run in a terminal:
<pre>
sudo lighttpd-enable-mod userdir
</pre>
Then reload the configuation:
<pre>
sudo service lighttpd reload
</pre>
Now users can place files in a "public_html" folder in their home directory to have them hosted on the web server.

For example, the user "joe" would put his files in "/home/joe/public_html" and access them at "http://serverip/~joe".

=== PHP ===

Install "php5-cgi":
<pre>
sudo apt-get install php5-cgi
</pre>

Enable the fastcgi module included with lighttpd:
<pre>
sudo lighttpd-enable-mod fastcgi fastcgi-php
</pre>

Reload the configuration with:
<pre>
sudo service lighttpd reload
</pre>
Create the file "/var/www/info.php" and put in it:
<pre>
<?php phpinfo(); ?>
</pre>
Browse to "http://serverip/info.php", and if you get a nice page showing all the PHP settings, it worked!

== 1.5 Releases ==

This will guide you through the steps needed to deploy a ready for production LLMP (where second "L" comes from Lighttpd) server.

=== Getting 1.5 (L+L) ===

lighttpd 1.5 milestone is currently in intensive development and there are no official builds available directly from the standard repositories. To get it available on you server you should add <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~stbuehler | Stefan Bühler]]</nowiki>'s <nowiki>[[PPA]]</nowiki> archives.  --note I would advise against this, as it has not been updated since Jan 2009.

Edit `/etc/apt/sources.list` with your favorite editor, and append to it the following line:
<pre>
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/stbuehler/ppa/ubuntu intrepid main
</pre>

{i} Don't worry if your system version is hardy, the repository won't upgrade the full system, only the required packages!!!

Now add Stefan's key from the Ubuntu keyserver:
<pre>
sudo apt-key adv --recv-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com 0xEA5C35785A43ED73
</pre>

Once you finished, use your favorite package manager and update and install lighttpd1.5:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install lighttpd1.5 lighttpd1.5-mod-magnet
</pre>

(!) The last package will be used for mod_rewrite rules.

This should be enough to get lighttpd on your machine.

=== Vhosts ===

=== MYSQL + PHP (LL+MP) ===
