{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



LightScribe support for Linux.

== Introduction ==

La''''''Cie has released the first software that allows burning labels on LightScribe media using LightScribe drives under Linux.

== Prerequisites ==

* LightScribe capable CD-R or DVD-R burner.
* LightScribe media.

== Installing ==

1. Visit the !LightScribe download page for Linux: http://www.pawtec.com/lightscribe/#linuxutils  (note: the official !LightScribe website is down. Pawtec mirrors its packages)

2. Download the <nowiki>[[http://www.pawtec.com/lightscribe_files/Linux/LSS/lightscribe-1.18.27.10-linux-2.6-intel.deb|LightScribe System Software package "deb package"]]</nowiki> software.

3. Download the <nowiki>[[http://www.pawtec.com/lightscribe_files/Linux/LSL/lightscribeApplications-1.18.15.1-linux-2.6-intel.deb|LightScribe Simple Application "deb package"]]</nowiki> software.

4. Download the <nowiki>[[http://davideddu.org/download/4l_1.0-1_i386.deb|LaCie 4L Labeler utility "deb package"]]</nowiki> software. 

4. Double-click the lightscribe-1.18.27.10-linux-2.6-intel.deb file and follow the prompts to install it.

5. Double-click the lightscribeApplications-1.18.15.1-linux-2.6-intel.deb file and follow the prompts to install it.

6. Double-click the 4l_1.0-1_i386.deb file and follow the prompts to install it.

If, while trying to run the Simple Labeler application, you receive a message that states, "error while loading shared libraries: liblightscribe.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory," manually run ldconfig like this:
<pre>
sudo ldconfig</pre>

== Running the Applications ==

For creating simple text labels, with a variety of stock border decorations, use the SimpleLabler application: 
<pre>
/opt/lightscribeApplications/SimpleLabeler/SimpleLabeler</pre>

For printing full-CD custom labels that you've created (typically use .png format), use the LaCie 4L application. Either look for "!LaCie 4L !LightScribe Labeler" in the dash, or run:
<pre>
4L-gui</pre>

On my system, running Ubuntu 9.10, with a MadDog LightScribe drive, it takes about 14 minutes to print a full CD at normal contrast, and 27 minutes at high contrast.

== Warnings ==

These packages install programs as setuid root, which means that they run with full system privileges and could be a security risk.

== Enable Enhanced Contrast ==

Activating the higher contrast print mode will let you print higher quality labels, at the cost of a bit longer burn time.

1. Run the Enhanced Contrast Utility for Linux
<pre>
sudo /usr/lib/lightscribe/elcu.sh</pre>
2. Enter '''1''' to turn on ''Enhanced Contrast'', or '''2''' to disable it.

This tip is documented on the <nowiki>[[http://www.lightscribe.com/downloadSection/pse/|LightScribe Pre-Release Software Evaluation]]</nowiki> page.

== Troubleshooting ==

It has been reported that when installing to 64 bit environments as described above you may get the following error:

<code>error while loading shared libraries: liblightscribe.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory</code>

The fix for this problem is to copy both liblightscribe.so and liblightscribe.so.1 files from from /usr/lib to /usr/lib32

== Links ==

* <nowiki>[[http://davideddu.org/blog/posts/burn-lightscribe-labels-on-ubuntu/|Burn !LightScribe labels in latest versions of Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lacie.com/products/product.htm?pid=10803|LaCie LightScribe Labeler for Linux product page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lacie.com/download/manual/LightScribeLabelerLinux_en.pdf|LaCie LightScribe Labeler for Linux User Manual]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lacie.com/technologies/technology.htm?id=10024|LaCie LightScribe Direct Disc Labeling Technology page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.lightscribe.com/|Official LightScribe site]]</nowiki> (offline)

----
