{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

These instructions should allow you to run LimeWire under Ubuntu and Kubuntu.

''Please note that I did this installation using kubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn; however, it should work under ubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn as well if you follow these instructions.''

'''FrostWire is an alternative to LimeWire.'''

== Java Installation ==

Make sure you have "multiverse" repository enabled in your /etc/apt/sources.list by clicking on System -> Administration -> Software Sources. The checkbox "Software restricted by copyright or legal issues (multiverse)" has to be enabled.

If you install the package with GDebi or KPackage the Java Runtime Environment will automatically be installed as a dependency of the LimeWire Debian package. Otherwise install it typing:

 sudo apt-get install sun-java5-jre

or

 sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre

== LimeWire Installation ==

Step 1. Click on the LimeWire Debian package from <nowiki>[[http://www.limewire.com]]</nowiki>. Your browser will open the the GDebi installer that will take care of the installation of the package and its dependencies.

At this point, you should be able to run limewire from the menu under Internet.

== LimeWire and Beryl ==

At the current time that I am writing this article, Java applications that use AWT and Swing are not displaying properly under Beryl; however there is an easy fix. 

''Go to <nowiki>[[http://wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Java]]</nowiki> for more information.''

Step 1:
Open up a Terminal

Step 2:

ubuntu:
<pre>
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/limewire
</pre>

kubuntu:
<pre>
kdesu kate /usr/bin/limewire
</pre>

Step3:

Change the script:

<pre>
cd /usr/lib/LimeWire
/bin/bash runLime.sh
</pre>

to

<pre>
cd /usr/lib/LimeWire
AWT_TOOLKIT=MToolkit /bin/bash runLime.sh
</pre>

Step 4:
Save and close /usr/bin/limewire

Once you start limewire, make sure you go to tools->options->system tray and change it to shut down immediately since system tray doesn't work with this fix.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

== Credits ==

zab at http://www.gnutellaforums.com/showthread.php?t=39850 for the installation instructions

jaideep_jdof at http://www.linuxmint.com/forum/viewtopic.php?p=12857 for the easy java fix

Other discussions about this issue can be found at http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=316398 

If there are any problems with these instructions, file a bug report at https://www.limewire.org/jira/secure/CreateIssue!default.jspa in project "LimeWire Installer".

Good Luck.
