{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Customising Ubuntu for Australian Conditions ==

Brought to you by the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam|Australian Ubuntu Local Community Team]]</nowiki>.

Please contribute to the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTranslationTeam|Australian localisation effort]]</nowiki> to ensure that Ubuntu remains an excellent choice for Australians.

=== Local Apt Mirrors ===

You can change your configuration so that you're downloading software from <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AustralianTeam/LocalAptMirrors|a local mirror]]</nowiki>. Downloading from a local mirror 
is good for the Internet and, depending on peering arrangements and your ISP, may be "free" and not count 
against your download quota.

=== Console ===

Ubuntu should take care of this for you automatically if you've used the ''Language Support'' GUI tool to set the correct default language.

The file ''/etc/default/locale'' should contain only the following (remove or comment out anything else):

<pre>
 LANG="en_AU.UTF-8"
LANGUAGE="en_AU:en" }}}

=== Evolution ===

==== Spell Checking ====

Evolution uses aspell dictionaries.  At the time of writing there is no aspell-en-au variant.

To set Evolution to do English (British) language spell checking:

* Select the '''Edit -> Preferences''' menu item.
* Click on '''Composer Preferences'''.
* Select the '''Spell Checking''' tab.
* Check '''English (British)'''.

=== OpenOffice.org ===

==== Australian Dictionaries ====

<nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu|Enable the universe repository]]</nowiki> and install the '''myspell-en-au''' package (Ubuntu 6.06 LTS onwards).

==== Australian Thesaurus ====

<nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu|Enable the universe repository]]</nowiki> and install the '''openoffice.org-thesaurus-en-au''' package (Ubuntu 6.06 LTS onwards).

==== Language Settings ====

If you selected Australia as your location at install time then Open``Office.org should already be defaulted to English(Australia).  If not change it via '''Tools -> Options''' then '''Language Settings -> Languages''' and change the '''Default languages for documents -> Western''' setting.

=== Thunderbird ===

==== Spell Checking ====

<nowiki>[[Repositories-Ubuntu|Enable the universe repository]]</nowiki> and install the '''myspell-en-au''' package (Ubuntu 6.06 LTS onwards).

Then set Thunderbird to use this dictionary:

* Select the '''Edit -> Preferences''' menu item.
* Click on '''Composition'''.
* Select the '''Spelling''' tab.
* Select '''English/Australia''' as the language.

=== Network Time Synchronisation ===

==== The command-line way ====

First you should read about <nowiki>[[NTPTimeSynchronisation|NTP Time Synchronisation in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>, install the appropriate packages, then modify your <code>/etc/default/ntpdate</code> and <code>/etc/ntp.conf</code> files to point to the <nowiki>[[http://www.pool.ntp.org/zone/au|Australian NTP server pool]]</nowiki>.  For example:

{{{
/etc/default/ntpdate

NTPSERVERS="0.au.pool.ntp.org 1.au.pool.ntp.org 2.au.pool.ntp.org"
NTPOPTIONS="-u"
</pre>

By default, <code>/etc/default/ntpdate</code> contains <code>NTPSERVERS="ntp.ubuntu.com"</code> - here we change it to query the Australian NTP server pool.

<pre>
/etc/ntp.conf

server 0.au.pool.ntp.org
server 1.au.pool.ntp.org
server 2.au.pool.ntp.org
</pre>

Then you can run <code>sudo invoke-rc.d ntpdate start</code> and <code>sudo invoke-rc.d ntp-server start</code>.

For more information, also see the <nowiki>[[http://www.pool.ntp.org/|NTP Pool web site]]</nowiki> and the project's <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NTP_pool|wikipedia entry]]</nowiki>.

==== The GNOME way ====
Right-click your clock in the GNOME menu bar and select "Adjust Date & Time". (Or from the menu bar you can go System -> Administration -> Time and Date.) 

Put a tick in the "Periodically synchronise clock with Internet servers". If you do not have the appropriate packages installed, you will be prompted to install them now. 

After these packages are installed, click the "Select Servers" button. By default the servers "ntp.ubuntu.com" and "127.127.1.0" are checked. You can uncheck these if you wish (there is no harm in doing so). 

In the text box to the left of the "Add" button, enter <code>0.au.pool.ntp.org</code> and click "Add". Repeat for <code>1.au.pool.ntp.org</code> and <code>2.au.pool.ntp.org</code>. They will not appear in the list while you click "Add", you will need to scroll down to see them. Give each of them a tick and then press "Close". 

Untick "Periodically synchronise clock with Internet servers", then click the "Synchronise Now" button. Tick "Periodically synchronise clock with Internet servers" again, then click "OK".

----
