{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Seting up Virtual Hosts on <nowiki>[[ApacheMySQLPHP|Apache]]</nowiki> with subdomains of localhost allows you to access your local files as if you had different subdomains, eg site1.localhost/ and site2.localhost/

This is particularly useful if you're working on and testing several different websites on your system, and each one requires top-level folders for things such as ServerSideIncludes files and stylesheets.

=== Hosts ===
In the Network Configuration Applet, go to the 'Hosts' tab and edit the entry for 127.0.0.1:

* IP address: 127.0.0.1 
* Aliases: add 'site2.localhost'

Alternatively, you can edit /etc/hosts directly, adding a line such as:

<pre>
127.0.0.1	site2.localhost
</pre>

To get the Network Configuration Applet gui and the host tab under Ubuntu 8.10 you must install the GNOME Network Administration Tool. After installation click System>Administration>Network and access the hosts tab.

=== Apache ===
Assuming you're using apache2, the cleanest thing to do is create a new configuration file in /etc/apache2/sites-available, and then enable the new site with the command <code>a2ensite</code> (which is similar to create a SymbolicLink to the site in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled).

This leaves the default configuration untouched. To revert, simply use the command <code>a2dissite</code> (or delete the symbolic link in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled).

<pre>
gksudo gedit /etc/apache2/sites-available/myconfig
</pre>

The text in your new file should be something like this...

<pre>
<VirtualHost *>
	DocumentRoot /home/username/mysite/
	ServerName site2.localhost

	<Directory /home/username/mysite/>
		Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews +Includes
		AllowOverride None
		Order allow,deny
		allow from all
	</Directory>
</VirtualHost></pre>

Then do:
<pre>
sudo a2ensite myconfig
</pre>

Finally, restart Apache to apply changes:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
</pre>

----

If the subdomains do not work, try doing this:
* Edit /etc/apache2/httpd.conf and add this line
<pre>
NameVirtualHost *
</pre>
* Restart Apache to apply changes:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
</pre>
