{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[UbuntuLTSP]]</nowiki>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="background:#ffffcc;border:1;">This page is specific to Ubuntu versions 10.04, 9.10?
|}
''If you find this information applicable to additional versions/releases, '''''please''''' edit this page and modify this header to reflect that. Please also include any necessary modifications for this information to apply to the additional versions.''
----

This page is simply an addendum to anyone who has joined their LTSP server to a Windows Active Directory Domain and is trying to get Local Apps to work. By default, the domain separator in likewise-open5 is a \.  However, this is a special character in Unix and causes problems in the Local Apps configuration scripts.  In order to circumvent this issue, one may change the domain separator from \ to a -.  This change should allow Local Apps to work, as well as making logging into the server easier (e.g. domain-user instead of user@domain.edu/com/org).

Procudeure:
If you are using a version of likewise-open previous to 5.4 then you simply change the /etc/likewise-open/lsassd.conf file.  Change the line that reads

{<pre>
domain-separator = \
</pre>}
to

{<pre>
domain-separator = -
</pre>}

After making this change run <code>/etc/init.d/lsassd restart</code> and you are ready to go!
----

If you are using likewise-open 5.4 (or later) then you must use the likewise-open registry.  To change the domain separator, run this command at a terminal:

<pre>
lwregshell set_value '[HKEY_THIS_MACHINE\Services\lsass\Parameters\Providers\ActiveDirectory]' DomainSeparator "-"
</pre>

Then run <code>/etc/init.d/lsassd restart</code> and you are ready to go!

----
CategoryLtsp
