{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
This guide describes how to obtain full functionality of the <nowiki>[[http://www.logitech.com/index.cfm/428/170|Logitech MX 610]]</nowiki>.
Here, all commands are in fixed-font, <code>like this</code>.

== Ubuntu 10.4 ==
You don't need any special setting for the basic functionalities of the mouse (all the buttons should be working just out of the box.)
If you upgraded from a previous version of Ubuntu and you have problems with this mouse you should:
1. Unistall Hal if you have it;
2. Make sure that you don't have any udev rule doing anything with your mouse.
With Ubuntu 10.4 you can basically ignore everything written below if you're not interested in getting the led working.

== General Mouse ==
Don't even touch the "ConfiguredMouse" default in <code>/etc/X11/xorg.conf</code> - just add a new input device:

<pre>
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"MX610"
	Driver		"evdev"
	Option		"Name"	"Logitech USB Receiver"		# see 'cat /proc/bus/input/devices'
	Option		"Phys"	"*/input0"			# this is the mouse part
	Option		"WHEELRelativeAxisButtons" "4 5"	# vertical wheel
	Option		"HWHEELRelativeAxisButtons" "7 6"	# horizontal wheel
EndSection</pre>

Then add it to the devices list:

<pre>
Section "ServerLayout"
	[...]
	Inputdevice	"MX610" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection</pre>

=== Using Hal fdi policy ===

Adding both vertical and horizontal scrolling using hal. No need for xorg.conf editing.

'''NB! This is for MX620! Users of MX610 should properly substitute mx620 with mx610'''

Add file: <code>/etc/hal/fdi/policy/mx620.fdi</code>
Add content:
<pre>
<match key="info.product" string="MX620 Laser Cordless Mouse">
 <merge key="input.x11_options.YAxisMapping" type="string">4 5</merge>
 <merge key="input.x11_options.XAxisMapping" type="string">6 7</merge>
</match>
</pre>

<code>info.product</code> can be optained using the <code>lshal</code> command.

== Side buttons ==
Install <code>xbindkeys</code> and <code>xautomation</code> from <code>universe</code>. Then create <code>~/.xbindkeysrc</code> with
<pre>
"xte 'keydown Alt_L' 'key Left' 'keyup Alt_L' &"
   b:8

"xte 'keydown Alt_L' 'key Right' 'keyup Alt_L' &"
   b:9
</pre>

After starting <code>xbindkeys</code> you can go back and forth with the side-buttons.
Then add <code>xbindkeys</code> to <code>~/.profile</code>.

== Volume Keys ==
No additional software is required to use the volume keys. All you need to do is use "Keyboard Shortcuts." The same can be said for the E-Mail button. By default, they just work in Ubuntu.

Getting the IM button to function is a little bit more interesting...

== Notification LEDs and their respective buttons ==

To get the lights to work for a user, the device must be writable to him/her. To do so, you will need to modify permissions. To do this:

Create the file <code>/etc/udev/rules.d/40-permissions.rules</code> and add
<pre>

KERNEL=="hiddev*",                      MODE="0666"</pre>

You will need to restart udev: <code>/etc/init.d/udev restart</code>. This could cause things to go quirky, so you may want to consider restarting the whole computer altogether.

And since there will be some compiling, make sure the packages <code>autoconf automake build-essential checkinstall</code> are installed.
If they aren't, just <code>sudo apt-get install autoconf automake build-essential checkinstall</code>.

=== E-Mail ===
Bill Hard, a KDE developer, has been working on the notification LEDs since 3/7/2006. We will use his work.

# To start, download mx610hack-0.3.tar.gz <nowiki>[[http://www.kdedevelopers.org/node/2029|here]]</nowiki>.
# Extract the archive.
# Replace the <code>depcomp</code> link with the file from <nowiki>[[http://www.fastcgi.com/devkit/depcomp|here]]</nowiki>.
# Open a console and change the working directory to where you extracted the archive using the <code>cd</code> command.
# Compile using the usual <code>./configure</code>, <code>make</code>, <code>sudo checkinstall</code> procedure - dont forget to specify the version or it will fail.

To gain an understanding of how to issue commands, issue the command <code>mx610hack --help</code>.

To make use of the light, you can either write a script to execute once you have new mail or install the "mail-notification" package by issuing the command <code>sudo apt-get install mail-notification</code>.
Then configure "mail-notification" to your liking and enable the LED on incoming mail with the command <code>mx610hack -p /dev/usb/hiddev0</code> and disable it when all mail is read with <code>mx610hack -o /dev/usb/hiddev0</code>.

Perhaps someone will write a plugins for Evolution so it just opens the unread mails successively and then toggles it instead of opening Evolution over and over.

=== IM (for Pidgin users) ===

It is possible to get Pigin to cooperate with this mouse:

# Download the plugin source <nowiki>[[http://koti.mbnet.fi/simom/pidgin/mx610-notification/|here]]</nowiki>.
# Extract the package.
# Open a console and change the working directory to where you extracted the archive.
# Install the pidgin-dev package: <code>sudo apt-get install pidgin-dev</code>.
# Make sure the directory <code>~/.purple/plugins</code> exists - that's where the plugin is installed.
# Compile and install: <code>make</code> then <code>make install</code>.
# Restart Pidgin (if running) and enable the plugin via Tools -> Plugins
# Change <code>/dev/hiddev0</code> to <code>/dev/usb/hiddev0</code>

Now not only a new message makes the LED glow, but the button opens the latest message until all are read - then it toggles the buddy list... neat, isn't it?

== Acknowledgments ==

* <nowiki>[[http://www.kdedevelopers.org/blog/102|Bill Hard]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://koti.mbnet.fi/simom/pidgin/mx610-notification/|Gaim MX-610 Notification Plugin]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332256|Ubuntu Forums thread about the MX-610 mouse]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHardware
