{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Logwatch ===
Logwatch is a tool that will monitor your server's logs and email the administrator a digest on a daily basis.

==== Installation ====
===== Prerequisites =====
* Ensure email is working. Instructions for doing so may be found in <nowiki>[[MailServer]]</nowiki>.

* Turn on universe repository. Instructions for doing so may be found in <nowiki>[[Repositories]]</nowiki>.

===== Instructions =====
Update your package list with:
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get update
</pre>
Install Logwatch with:
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install logwatch
</pre>

===== Notes =====
Create a directory the Logwatch package in the repositories currently does not create, but is required for proper operation:

<pre>
$ sudo mkdir /var/cache/logwatch
</pre>

Configuration shouldn't be edited in the install directory (/usr/share/logwatch). Copy logwatch.conf to /etc/logwatch before editing:

<pre>
$ sudo cp /usr/share/logwatch/default.conf/logwatch.conf /etc/logwatch/conf/
</pre>

Edit logwatch.conf to put in the e-mail where you want the report sent:
<pre>
MailTo = me@example.com
</pre>

Detail level of the logwatch report can be Low, Med or High. Default level is Low. To change that, edit the newly copied logwatch.conf:
<pre>
Detail = High
</pre>

For Ubuntu systems with apache server:

<pre>
sudo cp /usr/share/logwatch/default.conf/logfiles/http.conf /etc/logwatch/conf/logfiles/
</pre>

Then add *combined.log files to the list

===== See Also =====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.stellarcore.net/logwatch/tabs/docs/HOWTO-Customize-LogWatch.html|Logwatch customization Howto]]</nowiki>
