{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Parent: <nowiki>[[Games]]</nowiki>

== What is the Loki-Installer? ==

The Loki-Installer comes from the company Loki! They have ported many games to Linux and have written installers for them. Nowadays many games from <nowiki>[[http://liflg.org/|liflg.org]]</nowiki> get distributed with the Loki-Iinstaller. 

== Get the Loki-Installer ==
The Loki-Installer is normally a part of the installer of a game. You can get the Loki-Updater and Loki-Uninstaller, from <nowiki>[[http://liflg.org/|liflg.org]]</nowiki>.

Direct links:

http://liflg-tracker.death-row.org/torrents/loki_update-full-1.0.13-x86.run.torrent

http://liflg-tracker.death-row.org/torrents/loki_uninstall-full-1.0.3-x86.run.torrent

Those are torrents, so you'll have to use a program like Ktorrent or Azureus.

=== Install Loki-Updater ===
<pre>
sudo sh loki_update-full-1.0.13-x86.run
</pre>

=== Install Loki-Uninstaller ===
<pre>
sudo sh loki_uninstall-full-1.0.3-x86.run
</pre>

With the Loki-Updater you can easily update the games. With the Uninstaller you can easily uninstall the games. 

== How to install a game with Loki-Installer ==

In general it's a shellscript and you install it with the following command: 
<pre>
./game-version.run
</pre>

If you get "trap" error message, try it with: 
<pre>
/bin/bash game-version.run
</pre>

If you want to install games from CD, with mulitple CD's, it's better to copy the installer to the harddisk and start it fromt there.

If a games doesn't find the CD you can specify it with the following command:
<pre>
export SETUP_CDROM=/path/to/cdrom/ 
</pre>

If a game closes or hangs with a segmentation fault or Stack dump, it maybe caused by a binary-incompatible libc6 version.  This can be circumvented by running the game in a chroot environment with an earlier version of libc6.  See the WoodyInChroot page for more information about how to run binary-only applications in an older operating system environment.

Credits: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Spiele/Loki_Installer|ubuntuusers.de]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryGames
