{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

'''FAQ - Workarounds'''

'''Introduction'''

Some of the annoying little bugs (paper cuts) in Lubuntu are on the list of things to be sorted out. Many have been addressed in later releases of Lubuntu and backported to earlier versions, but some paper-cuts persist. As most of these involve the use of the command line, if you are new to it, please do have a read of <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/LXTerminal | LXterminal]]</nowiki>. When you see
<pre>
some instructions
</pre>
That means you need to type them into <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/LXTerminal | LXterminal]]</nowiki>.

-----
=== Guides ===

If you cannot find your issue listed here, please also check <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides | Guides]]</nowiki> for additional information.

-----

=== Lubuntu Software Center not working ===
`[Ed.: refers to non-released version of Lubuntu]`
This shows itself as when you select Lubuntu Software Center from the menu, nothing happens. To confirm that the problem you are having is the known problem, please carry out the following.

<pre>
lubuntu-software-center
</pre>

If you get a lot of errors regarding python then please carry out the following

<pre>
rm -r ~/.config/lsc
</pre>

That will force Lubuntu Software Center to rebuild next time you start it from the menu (it may take a little while to rebuild).
-----
=== Problems with Abiword ===

This is a known <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1019621 | bug]]</nowiki>. There is a workaround available from <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12093593&postcount=20 | here]]</nowiki>.

-------

=== LXPanel disappeared and after lauching lxpanel again, it looks ugly. ===
<pre>
lxpanel --profile Lubuntu
</pre>

Note: The command above is case sensitive!

------

=== When clicking in Chromium "Show in Folder" it spawns a new tab that shows only directory listing ===
<pre>
gksudo leafpad /usr/bin/xdg-open
</pre>
replace following lines in the end

<pre>
    generic)
    open_generic "$url"
    ;;
</pre>
with lines:
<pre>
    generic)
    open_lxde "$url"
    ;;
</pre>

------

=== After upgrade my keyboard layout changed ===
<pre>
gksudo leafpad /etc/default/keyboard
</pre>

replace
<pre>
XKBMODEL="a4techKB21"
XKBLAYOUT="us,af"
XKBVARIANT=""
XKBOPTIONS=""
</pre>

to

<pre>
XKBMODEL="a4techKB21"
XKBLAYOUT="fi"
XKBVARIANT=""
XKBOPTIONS="terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp"
</pre>

replace fi with your desired language, de,uk,it, you name it.

and then reboot your computer, as restarting udev service doesn't change it.
<pre>
sudo reboot
</pre>

------

=== Screen resolution is wrong, no matter what I do ===

Moved to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Monitor_or_Screens]]</nowiki>

------

=== Intel eeprom100 gives in dmesg: e100 0000:02:08.0: (unregistered net_device) EEPROM corrupted ===

<pre>
sudo bash -c ‘echo “options e100 eeprom_bad_csum_allow=1″ >> /etc/modprobe.d/options’
</pre>

------
=== Lubuntu will not install in less than 5.3 / 4.3 GB of disk space ===

Please use the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO | Alternate iso]]</nowiki>.

------

=== Video Tearing ===
Moved to <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Video]]</nowiki>

------

=== Vim has unreadable colors in LXTerminal ===
Moved to [[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/LXTerminal/Customising]

-----
=== Can't Change to Screen Resolution I need For My Monitor or Laptop Screen ===
Moved to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Monitor_or_Screens]]</nowiki>

-----
=== Entire disk with encryption doesn't prompt for disk password ===

If you install LVM entire disk encryption, you may encounter the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/966403|bug]]</nowiki> where you are not prompted for your password on bootup.  Without this password, the system cannot decrypt your drive, and will not continue booting.  This is only a problem for certian graphics cards. 

Workarounds for this bug:

1) When you land at the blank screen (it is waiting for your LVM encryption password) just type your password. Alternatively, hit one of the up/down arrow keys to get to the GUI and enter your password (you will need to hit backspace twice to remove the two characters that were put in by the one arrow key press)

2) Edit your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file. In the menu entry for the kernel you wish to boot, add the text "plymouth:force-drm" (without the quotes) to the end of the line that starts with "linux /boot/vmzlinux-3.2.....". If you do this workaround, you will need to re-apply this fix anytime the kernel package is updated or grub is otherwise modified as the file is completely re-written each time.

3) Use the un-modified kernel. Read: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds to manually download a mainline kernel and install on your system.

-----
=== Taskbar or LxPanel Background is the wrong color ===
If you don't set the opacity of <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/LXPanel |LxPanel]]</nowiki>, in the appearance tab (under <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/LXPanel | LxPanel]]</nowiki> Settings)
It doesn't look right.  On the color chooser, you can set the color to non-transparent.

-----
=== My machine doesn't remember brightness settings ===

Moved to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Monitor_or_Screens]]</nowiki>
