{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

== Set Color Depth ==

Maybe you would like to set <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_depth |"bit depth"]]</nowiki> to 16-bit or 24-bit or 32-bit.<<BR>>
Unless you are running proprietary drivers, the instructions for doing this are difficult and should not be undertaken unless you are experienced editing your xorg.conf file on ubuntu.

-----

== Text is Blurry on my CRT ==

Go to "Customize Look and Feel", turn off Subpixel Geometry on the Fonts tab.

-----

== Can't Change to Screen Resolution I need For My Monitor or Laptop Screen ==

=== Monitor Settings ===

Does "Monitor Settings" in the Preferences sub-menu not list the resolution you need?

Make a note of the video chipset you have, for example "ATI Mobility Radeon™ HD 5430 Graphics" and head to the <nowiki>[[ http:--ubuntuforums.org |Ubuntu forum ]]</nowiki> for help.  Also mention your version of Lubuntu.

Alternatively, you can use the xrandr (in the terminal) directly.  More info <nowiki>[[ https:--wiki.ubuntu.com-X-Config-Resolution |here. ]]</nowiki>

-----

=== Screen resolution is wrong, no matter what I do ===

==== Quick fix that often works ====

Maybe it will help if you edit the file '''/etc/default/grub''', (remove '''#''')
<pre>
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
</pre>
from
<pre>
</pre>
to
<pre>
GRUB_TERMINAL=console
</pre>
and make it active by running
<pre>
sudo update-grub
</pre>
and reboot the computer. 

----

==== Sometimes it takes real tweaking to solve the problem ====

This needs some real tweaking, mostly from console (tty aka teletype).
First we need to get to the console and it is done by pressing following keys:
<pre>
ctrl+alt+f1
</pre>

Login with your credentials.
After login, we need to stop  LightDM (or LXDM, GDM, or KDM) with the command

<pre>
sudo service lightdm stop
</pre>

Now we can access X Window System for making an Xorg configuration file with the command

<pre>
sudo Xorg -configure
</pre>

Then we have to move the new configuration file to a correct place.

<pre>
sudo mv xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

After this we need to edit '''xorg.conf''' a little, actually we need to add our desired resolution. We need to find a section "Screen" and make sure you have Modes  "Reso x Lution" there like you can see from bottom.

<pre>
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>

<pre>
Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Screen0"
        Device     "Card0"
        Monitor    "Monitor0"
        DefaultDepth 24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport  0 0
                Depth     24
                Modes     "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
</pre>

Now you have edited xorg.conf, you can save it and then you need to start LightDM with command

<pre>
sudo service lightdm start
</pre>

And you should have a correct resolution when you press

<pre>
ctrl+alt+f7
</pre>

To return back to X Window System.

-----

== My machine doesn't remember brightness settings ==

There is a known issue with 11.10 when it comes to brightness. Your machine doesn't remember your brightness settings and everytime you reboot, it back to the maximum value.

There is a simple workaround for this - '''please see <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/3841/desktop-doesnt-remember-brightness-settings-after-a-reboot | the main reference]]</nowiki>'''.

From Terminal
<pre>
gksudo leafpad /etc/rc.local
</pre>

comment out the 
<pre>
exit 0 
</pre>
by adding # in the begining. Then add this line after that:
<pre>
echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
</pre>

replace '''0''' with the required brightness value ( ranges from 0 to 10 )

The file will look like this:
<pre>

echo 0 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
</pre>

Save the file and exit.

Reboot your machine to make sure it works.
