{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

=== Get Colorful Mouse Cursor ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.reddit.com/r/Lubuntu/comments/1mihq5/how_to_change_mouse_cursors/|Instructions here]]</nowiki>
=== Change Mouse cursor for all apps ===
PCManFM and LxPanel don't use the cursor theme, you will have to change the cursor manually.<<BR>>
Edit /usr/share/icons/default/index.theme to list the correct cursor theme.<<BR>>
You will need to change the default cursor.  More instructions  <nowiki>[[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/LXDE#Cursors | here.]]</nowiki><<BR>>
=== Touchpad settings ===
Edit `~/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart` with the respective values to achieve the desired result on the following.

Please note there are ''many'' more options. Looking at the man pages for <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/synaptics|synaptics]]</nowiki> (the driver options), <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/synclient|synclient]]</nowiki> (interfaces with the driver), & <nowiki>[[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/syndaemon|syndaemon]]</nowiki> (handles relationship between keyboard and touchpad) should reveal the breadth of them. 

You can view current settings with
<pre>
synclient -l
</pre>

More common requests include:
==== Enable horizontal two finger scrolling ====
<pre>
synclient HorizTwoFingerScroll=1
</pre>
==== Disable tap to click ====
<pre>
synclient MaxTapTime=0
</pre>
==== Disable coasting (scrolling after release) ====
<pre>
synclient CoastingSpeed=0
</pre>
==== Disable touchpad while typing ====
<pre>
syndaemon -d -t
</pre>
Optionally add `-k` to allow for modifer keys so that you can do CTRL-click, for example.
-----       
=== Adjust Double-click speed in 12.04 ===

1. Double-clicking in window titles
 Start with the LXDE menu, go to Preferences.  Open Openbox Configuration Manager. Find 'Mouse' on the window panel, click it.  Should see 'Double Click Time' it at the bottom.  No need to log out.
2. Double-clicking in PCManFM and on the desktop:  
 If you have difficulty in double-clicking to open files in PCManFM or files on your destop, you may want to increase the time you are allowed for two clicks to be registered as a "double click" and not as two separate single clicks. To do so, you will need to edit a file called <code>.gtkrc-2.0</code>  in your home directory.  If you don't see this file, make sure you have enabled viewing of hidden files and folders (or use <code>ls -a</code> in your terminal window instead of plain <code>ls</code>). If you still don't see this file, you will need to create the file.  Then, open the file and add a line with the new time in ms
<pre>
gtk-double-click-time=400
</pre> 

The lower the number, the faster you need to double-click. You have to log out and log back in to see the changes.
Source: <nowiki>[[http://forum.lxde.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=501 | How to adjust the double click's speed in PCManFM?]]</nowiki>
----- 

=== Disable how using the scrollwheel on the switches to the next Desktop ===
Before restarting openbox with this command: openbox --reconfigure <<BR>>
Edit ~/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml and remove these lines:
<pre>
      <mousebind button="Up" action="Click">
        <action name="GoToDesktop">
          <to>previous</to>
        </action>
      </mousebind>
      <mousebind button="Down" action="Click">
        <action name="GoToDesktop">
          <to>next</to>
        </action>
      </mousebind>
</pre>
-----
=== My Touchpad Changes Desktop, How Do I stop it? ===
=== The scroll button on your mouse keeps changing the Desktop Workspace even when you're scrolling through a folder or file. ===

<pre>
cd ~/.config/openbox
cp lubuntu-rc.xml lubuntu-rc.xml.bak
</pre>
(this makes a backup file so that when you think you've messed it up you could revert it back.)

<pre>
leafpad lubuntu-rc.xml
</pre>

and delete the lines which says;
<pre>
<mousebind button="UP" action="click">
 <action name="DesktopPrevious" />
<mousebind button="Down" action="click">
 <action name="DesktopNext" />
</pre>

en 14.04 forigu la linioj, (borra las líneas)
<pre>
<mousebind button="Up" action="Click">
 <action name="GoToDesktop">
  <to>previous</to>
 </action>
</mousebind>
<mousebind button="Down" action="Click">
 <action name="GoToDesktop">
  <to>next</to>
 </action>
</mousebind>
</pre>

Log out and Log in back again to see the changes!

if you've messed it up and want to revert it back;
<pre>
cp lubuntu-rc.xml.bak lubuntu-rc.xml
</pre>
------
