{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Here I describe how I installed '''Lubuntu-12.04''' on my '''Lenovo E600A''' laptop.<<BR>>
Hope that will be helpful to someone.

== My Lenovo laptop ==
Model: Lenovo E600A<<BR>>
CPU: Intel Centrio (PentiumM 1.6GHz)<<BR>>
Memory: 768MB<<BR>>
GPU: nVIDIA Geforce FX go 5200<<BR>>
HD: 38GB, C:--NTFS 10GB, D:--FAT32 10GB, FreeSpace: 17GB<<BR>>
OS: WindowsXP SP4 on C:<<BR>>
DVD-ROM: Yes, bootable<<BR>>
USB: Yes, but not bootable<<BR>>

I wanted to install Ubuntu 14.04 co-hosting with my WindowsXP at first.<<BR>>
After failed with the bootable-DVD of Ubuntu 14.04, I know that my CPU '''does not support PAE'''.
== Which release fit my machine? ==
From <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall|here]]</nowiki> I know the best one for my Lenovo-E600A is Lubuntu 12.04.<<BR>>
After recording 2 DVD-ROMs of Ubuntu14.04 and Ubuntu12.04-nonPAE and failed both, I decided to install from HardDisk.<<BR>>
Then I get __lubuntu-12.04-desktop-i386.iso__ <nowiki>[[http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/releases/precise/release/|here]]</nowiki>.
== Tools for install from Hard Disk ==
The installation will begin from the existing OS WindowsXP.<<BR>>
Only the ''' grub4dos''', I found the grub4dos-0.4.4.<<BR>>
Of course, the package tool, such as '''7zip'''.
== Preparation for Installation from Hard Disk ==
* Start my E600A into Windows XP.
* Put the ISO file to the root of "d:" (FAT32 disk)
* Extract directory __casper__ from the ISO file to the root of "d:"
* Copy file __grldr__ to the root of "C:" (the boot disk of Windows XP)
* Creat a file named __menu.lst__ with following content:
  title Install Lubuntu<<BR>>
  root (hd0,1)<<BR>>
  kernel /casper/vmlinuz boot=casper iso-scan/filename=/lubuntu-12.04-desktop-i386.iso ro<<BR>>
  initrd /casper/initrd.lz<<BR>>
* Edit the windowsXP's __boot.ini__ file at root of "C:" to add the following line:
  C:\grldr="GRUB DOS"<<BR>>

== Installation procedure ==
* Restart my laptop E600A
* At the startup menu, choose "GRUB DOS"
* At GRUB menu, choose "Install Lubuntu"
* Then you will see the GUI with "try Lubuntu" and "Install Lubuntu"
* Select "try Lubuntu", you will get into the live Lubuntu desktop.
* Press "Ctrl+Alt+T" to open a terminal
* In the terminal, run "ls -l /isodevices", you can find it's your "C:" disk.
* In the terminal, run "sudo umount -l /isodevice"
* Double click the "Install Lubuntu" icon on the desktop (It's the only icon).
* Then follow the normal installation steps <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/InstallingLubuntu|InstallingLubuntu]]</nowiki>
* Select "Install Lubuntu along with WindowsXP"
== Important notes ==
# My WindowsXP's "C:" is NTFS format. It will not work if I put ISO file on "C:".
# My "D:" is FAT32 format maybe that is the key fact for me to do it successfully.
# Don't forget to umount the /isodevice, or the installation will be pending at partitioning.
# After installation, If you find the Lubuntu's GRUB multi-boot menu font size is too big or too small <<BR>>
 You can try: <<BR>>
 Edit "GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480" in file __/etc/default/grub__ with your real LCD size.<<BR>>
  sudo vi /etc/default/grub <<BR>>
 Then update it: sudo update-grub
