{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{{{#!wiki warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
}}}

== Language Support ==
=== Languages ===
 1. Open the Lubuntu menu and go to ''Preferences > Language Support''. You will be asked to completely install language support, do so. (You need your administration password for this — typically this is the password you created when you installed Lubuntu). This only ever needs doing once.
 2. Click on the ‘Install / Remove Languages’ button to pull up the list of available languages
 3. Click on the box to right of the language(s) you want to add to put a tick in the box (you can add more than one language pack if you wish, see note).
 4. Click on the ‘Apply Changes’ button. (You can then 'Click and Drag' the languages into your desired order).
 5. Click on the ‘Apply System-Wide’ button.

'''More translators wanted''', if you’d like to help please <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/GettingInvolved#Joining+the+Team+&+Participating | join the team]]</nowiki>.

=== Date and currency formats ===

 1. Click on the Text tag and select the layout you want.
 2. Click on the ‘Apply System-Wide’ button

=== Keyboard layouts ===

If you want more than one language available on the keyboard, here is what to do:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1455877
