{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

== Welcome ==

The objective of the Lubuntu project is to create a variant of <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.com | Ubuntu]]</nowiki> that is lighter, less resource hungry and more energy-efficient by using lightweight applications and <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE]]</nowiki>, The Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment, as its default <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUI | GUI]]</nowiki>.

Lubuntu is targeted at PC and laptop users running on low-spec hardware that, in most cases, just don't have enough resources for all the bells and whistles of the "full-featured" mainstream distributions. Members of the team take care of LXDE and other packages that are part of Lubuntu. Lubuntu received official recognition as a formal member of the Ubuntu family, commencing with Lubuntu 11.10.  Even though Lubuntu is a lightweight distribution, it does not mean you will not be able to run all applications that other distributions are currently offering. It does mean that it is prepared and developed for low-specification computers. Nonetheless, you can run any application available in the official repositories, as long as your hardware can bear with it.

Please join us and contribute to an exciting international Free and Open Source Software project. We look forward to working together with you. 

== System Requirements ==

We have done many tests and we've found out that Lubuntu can be installed on a Pentium II or Celeron system with 128 MB of RAM, but such a system would not perform well enough for daily use. 

With 256MB - 384MB of RAM, the performance will be better and the system will be more usable.

With 512MB of RAM, you don't need to worry much.

The default "Desktop" installer requires 384-800 MB of RAM (depending on selected options.)  If you have problems, please use the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Alternate_ISO|alternative installer]]</nowiki>.

== Get Lubuntu ==

To download Lubuntu and see the various options available head over to <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu | Get Lubuntu]]</nowiki>. This section discusses both the standard installs and those required for computers with low memory (RAM), old chipsets (i586) and low disk-space (netbooks). Please read the <nowiki>[[https://lubuntu.me/bionic-released/ | release notes]]</nowiki> before you install. 

=== Upgrading from last release ===

When upgrading, it is recommened that you back up your own data. 

The update manager GUI will offer you the next release of lubuntu (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/990091 | it shows as Ubuntu, but updates Lubuntu]]</nowiki>); Alternatively, launch <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationHelp/LXTerminal | LXTerminal]]</nowiki> and enter

<pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>

== Lubuntu vs Ubuntu ==
Both Lubuntu and Ubuntu share Two Major Important Things:

* Same Core System
* Same Repositories

Lubuntu and Ubuntu belong to the same family and talking about each as totally different two systems is not correct since they have some things in common. Thus, we use the same <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/ | Forum Area]]</nowiki> and share many Wiki Pages.

The differences between Lubuntu and Ubuntu are:

* Different <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desktop_environment | DE]]</nowiki> - Lubuntu uses <nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/ | LXDE]]</nowiki> while Ubuntu uses <nowiki>[[http://unity.ubuntu.com/ | Unity]]</nowiki> as the default DE.
* Different Default Applications
 
Other than that, they are the same.
The DE is what makes Lubuntu a lightweight OS, and of course the selected applications too because we make sure to use the lightest applications. However, you are still free to use any application available in Ubuntu’s repositories, as long as your computer can run it.

Lubuntu is recognized as a member the Ubuntu family by the developers of Ubuntu.

As of 14.04, long term support (LTS) versions are available - you can check the predicted calendar <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu/LTS| here]]</nowiki>.

== Lubuntu vs Windows 7 ==

For those of you who are feeling that your computer is not working anymore with Windows 7 because, say, it is getting slower, here is a chart comparing Lubuntu’s starting applications and the most used softwares in Windows 7:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#0066FF" rowstyle="color:#FFFFFF;text-align:center;font-weight:bold">Lubuntu Application
| Function
| Windows Software
| Included in SP1
|-
| Xpad
| Stickies
| Microsoft !OneNote
| Yes
|-
| Evince
| PDF Viewer
| Adobe Reader
| Yes
|-
| Gnumeric
| Spreadsheet
| Excel
| Yes
|-
| Abiword
| Docs
| Word
| Yes
|-
| Simple-scan
| Scanner
| 
| 
|-
| Gnome-disk-utility
| Partition Editor
| Disk Manager
| Yes
|-
| Light-locker
| Screensaver
| Scrnsave.exe
| Yes
|-
| Guvcview
| Webcam Utility
| Driver-related
| Yes
|-
| Gucharmap
| Character Map
| 
| 
|-
| Scrot
| Screenshot
| 
| Available, but it is not a program
|-
| Hardinfo
| System info
| 
| Featured
|-
| Mtpaint
| Image Editing
| Paint
| Yes
|-
| Xfburn
| Cd Burning
| No
| Not featured
|-
| Pcmanfm
| File Manager
| Explorer.exe
| 
|-
| Gcalculator
| Calculator
| Calc
| 
|-
| Audacious
| Audio Player
| Windows Media Player
| Yes
|-
| Gnome-mplayer
| Video Player
| Windows Media Player
| Yes
|-
| Transmission
| Torrent
| No
| No
|-
| Pidgin
| Instant Messaging
| Microsoft Lync
| No
|-
| Sylpheed
| Email Client
| Outlook
| Yes
|-
| Mozilla Firefox
| Browser
| Internet Explorer
| Yes
|-
| Leafpad
| Editor
| Notepad/WordPad
| Yes
|-
| File-roller
| Zip files manager
| 
| Not featured
|-
| Lxterminal
| Terminal
| cmd.exe
| Yes
|-
| Gpicview
| Image Viewer
| Windows Media Center
| Yes
|}

These are the minimum hardware requirements in order to run Windows 7:
* 1 GHz processor or faster, 32 or 64 bit;
* 1 GB of RAM for the 32 bits version, or at least 2 for the 64 bit version;
* 16 GB of hard drive (32 bit) or 20 GB (64 bit);
* Graphics card that supports DirectX 9 with WDDM 1.0 controler or superior

For comparison, here are the minimum supported requirements of Lubuntu:
* 266 MHz processor;
* 128 MB;
* 3 GB hard drive;
* no fancy graphics

A more usable system would have:
* 512 MHz processor or faster, 32 or 64 bit;
* 512 MB of RAM;
* 6 GB hard drive;
* no fancy graphics

== Contribute to Lubuntu ==

Do you want to help make Lubuntu even more awesome? Learn more using the links below. We need contributions in the following areas:

* <nowiki>[[https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/ |Reporting bugs]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Translations |Translations]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/lubuntu-dev/ | Code & patches]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Artwork |Artwork]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/DocumentationTeam|Documentation]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Marketing |Marketing & Press]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing | Testing]]</nowiki>

More detail are available on the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/GettingInvolved | Getting Involved]]</nowiki> page.

== Lubuntu Links ==

* <nowiki>[[https://lubuntu.me/blog/ | The Lubuntu Blog]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://lubuntu.me | Lubuntu Website]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lubuntu-desktop | Lubuntu on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/WikiMap | Lubuntu Wiki map]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LubuntuLinks | Lubuntu OneStopPage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-AdvancedMethods| Lubuntu Advanced Methods]]</nowiki>

== LXDE Links ==

* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.lxde.org/en/Main_Page | LXDE Website]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~lxde | LXDE on Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[LXDE | LXDE on Ubuntu Wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Specs-UbuntuLxdeDesktop | Ubuntu LXDE Desktop]]</nowiki>

----
----

