{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


 
== Install issues ==

If you cannot find your issue listed here, please also check <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Testing/PPC%26Mac64 | PPC & AMD64+MAC]]</nowiki> area for additional information.

-----

=== No desktop with nVidia video chips ===

This is a problem not only with the LiveCD, rendering an install virtually impossible, but on a freshly installed system as well. There is a known <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nouveau/+bug/1061790|bug]]</nowiki> for this. The workaround is to create a configuration file for X as documented <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#How_do_I_configure_an_xorg.conf_file.3F|here]]</nowiki>, though this will only really help on an installed system. 

   
   {X} '''NOTE:''' nVidia, Radeon, and ATI chips all display different behaviors. This workaround only applies to nVidia chips. If you are not sure what you have, you can boot into the system (even an old LiveCD will work) and issue the following command to see what video chip you have:
<pre>
lspci | grep -i vga
</pre>
If you do not see "NVIDIA," then don't expect this to solve your problem.
   

Here's the workaround:
1. Use the alternate ISO to install, not the desktop.
2. After the install, boot like normal. You should get to a black screen with some text on it. It appears frozen.
3. Open a virtual terminal using the keystroke Ctrl-Alt-F1. You can use any F-key from 1-6. Note that on Apples this is more adequately described as Fn-Ctrl-Option-F1 since Fn-Option is Alt.
4. Login with the credentials you created during the install.
5. When at the command prompt enter the following commands: 
<pre>
sudo Xorg -configure
sudo mv xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
</pre>
 and enter your password at the prompt.
6. Edit the file so that it looks like <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com/1284325/plain/|this]]</nowiki> and save it.
7. Reboot with:
<pre>
sudo shutdown -r now
</pre>
as an alternate to steps 5 and 6, if you have Internet access, you can use the following command: sudo wget http://paste.ubuntu.com/1284325/plain/ -O /etc/X11/xorg.conf, which, of course, requires your password. 
-----

=== No desktop with Radeon video chips on LiveCD ===

Radeon will not boot to the desktop without a boot command on the LiveCD. You will need this for booting the installation media but once the system is installed, it is unnecessary. That means if you use the alternate installer, netboot, or something other than the desktop ISO, this is not needed.

   {X} '''NOTE:''' nVidia, Radeon, and ATI chips all display different behaviors. This workaround only applies to Radeon chips. If you are not sure what you have, you can boot into the system (even an old LiveCD will work) and issue the following command to see what video chip you have:
<pre>
lspci | grep -i vga
</pre>
If you do not see "Radeon," then don't expect this to solve your problem.

  At the `boot:` prompt type:
<pre>
live video=radeonfb:1024x768-32@60 
</pre>
where 1024x768 is your xy resolution, 32 is the bpp and 60 is the refresh rate in Hertz. In general, these default settings should suffice for most people.
-----
=== No Sound After Installation ===

Two files need to be modified. Open a terminal session and launch your preferred editor:
  
1. From /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.local.conf remove the following lines:
<pre>
 blacklist snd-aoa-codec-tas
 blacklist snd-aoa-fabric-layout
 blacklist snd-aoa-i2sbus
 blacklist snd-aoa-soundbus
 blacklist snd-aoa
</pre>
2. Then add the following line to /etc/modules
<pre>
 snd-aoa-i2sbus
</pre>
After a reboot sound will work and alsamixer will run.
