{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



This document provides instructions and notes on upgrading to Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (code name "Lucid Lynx"), the most recent long-term release of Ubuntu, released on the 29th of April 2010.

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 10.04 LTS ("Lucid Lynx") from Ubuntu 9.10 ("Karmic Koala") or from Ubuntu 8.04 LTS ("Hardy Heron"). This page contains instructions for both. (see UpgradeNotes)
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004|release notes]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 8.04 LTS or 9.10, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 LTS ==

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===
You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.

# Start System/Administration/Update Manager.
# Click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and press '''Check''' again after that is complete.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Network Upgrade for Kubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 10.04 LTS are supported from Kubuntu 9.10 (but not Kubuntu 8.04).

<nowiki>[[LucidUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 9.10 to 10.04]]</nowiki>

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Servers (Recommended) ===

1. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
# edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=normal</code>
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>
2. Follow the on-screen instructions.

== Upgrade from 8.04 LTS to 10.04 LTS ==

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===
You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.

# Start System/Administration/Software Sources
# On the '''Updates''' tab, set '''Show new distribution releases:''' to '''Long term support releases only''', then press '''Close'''.
# Press Alt-F2 and type <code>update-manager</code>
# Click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and press '''Check''' again after that is complete.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Network Upgrade for Kubuntu Desktops ===

Because Kubuntu 8.04 was not an LTS release and has passed its end of life, direct upgrades to Kubuntu 10.04 LTS from Kubuntu 8.04 are not supported.  Please follow the directions for <nowiki>[[KarmicUpgrades-Kubuntu-8.04|upgrading Kubuntu 8.04 to 9.10]]</nowiki> first, then follow the directions above for upgrades from Kubuntu 9.10.

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Servers (Recommended) ===

1. Ensure you're up to date with latest release: <pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>
<pre>
sudo apt-get upgrade
</pre>
2. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
3. edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=lts</code>
Note: The minumum contents of 
<code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> should be
<pre>
[DEFAULT]
Prompt=lts
</pre>
1. Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
sudo do-release-upgrade
</pre>
# Follow the on-screen instructions.
# At the end of the upgrade process you will be required to restart the server in order to boot into the new kernel.  If you do not have access to the console of the system you are upgrading, you may need to edit <code>/boot/grub/menu.lst</code> and change the default boot kernel to the newly installed 10.04 kernel.  '''If this step is not performed your server may attempt to boot into the 8.04 LTS kernel and will hang.'''

== Upgrading Using the Alternate CD/DVD ==

Use this method if the system being upgraded is not connected to the Internet.

# Download the '''alternate''' installation CD from http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/
# <nowiki>[[BurningIsoHowto#InUbuntu|Burn the ISO to a CD]]</nowiki> and insert it into the CD-ROM drive of the computer to be upgraded.
** If the ISO file is on the computer to be upgraded, you could avoid wasting a CD by <nowiki>[[ManageDiscImages#MountISOFiles|mounting the ISO as a drive]]</nowiki> with a command like: <pre>
sudo mount -o loop ~/Desktop/ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso /media/cdrom0
</pre>
# A dialog will be displayed offering you the opportunity to upgrade using that CD.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

If the upgrade dialog is not displayed for any reason, you may also run the following command using `Alt+F2`: <pre>
gksu "sh /cdrom/cdromupgrade"
</pre>

Or in Kubuntu run the following command using `Alt+F2`: <pre>
kdesudo "sh /cdrom/cdromupgrade"
</pre>

== Upgrading from a Torrent ==
If you're familiar with <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent_(protocol)|torrents]]</nowiki> and have an ISP that doesn't limit them, you can download the upgrade much more quickly.  You'll also be sharing your bandwidth with other Ubuntu users and helping to reduce the load on the servers, which is especially beneficial on release days when the server overload causes problems.

Just visit http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/, and download the appropriate torrent file for the '''alternate''' installation CD, found in the list towards the bottom of the page.  (It will have a filename like ''ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent''.)  Load it into your BitTorrent client, and after it is done downloading the ISO, follow the <nowiki>[[#AlternateUpgrade|alternate CD upgrade instructions]]</nowiki>.

<nowiki>[[http://ptcbus.blogspot.com/2008/04/upgrading-from-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html|Detailed instructions in a blog post]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4784633#post4784633|in a forum thread]]</nowiki>.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004|release notes]]</nowiki>.

In some cases, the installer is trying to use the network despite following the instructions above; please see: <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager-core/+question/109413|can't get lucid installer to upgrade offline, without going over the net]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
