{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



<nowiki>[[http://lxde.org/|LXDE]]</nowiki>, or Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment, is a fast-performing and energy-efficient lightweight desktop environment that can replace the default GNOME desktop environment. However, unlike other desktop environments which often are tightly integrated, LXDE strives to be modular. Therefor each component can be used independently with few dependencies.

LXDE was the standard desktop environment in <nowiki>[[Lubuntu]]</nowiki>, an Ubuntu derivative which received official endorsement in 2011, up to and including Lubuntu 18.04 LTS (Lubuntu switched to LXQt starting Lubuntu 18.10). Please see the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Documentation | Lubuntu documentation]]</nowiki> for support regarding LXDE in Ubuntu.

== Installing LXDE ==

When doing a standard Lubuntu setup LXDE comes automatically as part of the package, so no special installation is needed. 

If you are using another distro and want to add LXDE as an extra option, you need to install it. 

 1. You can install LXDE by using either:
  a. Graphical method - Use the <nowiki>[[SynapticHowto | Synaptic Package Manager]]</nowiki> to install the ''lxde'' package.
  a. Graphical method - Use <nowiki>[[SoftwareCenterFAQ | Ubuntu Software Center]]</nowiki> and search for ''lxde desktop'', beware that the search result is a meta package. You may want to uncheck undesired packages before installing.
  a. Command line - Open a terminal and type:
   {{{
   sudo apt-get install lxde
   }}}

 1. Press '''System → Quit...''' and then press '''Log Out''' to log out of Ubuntu.

 1. At the log-in screen which appears, press '''Options → Select Session...'''

 1. Choose the '''LXDE''' option and press '''Change Session'''.

Enter your username and password as normal, LXDE should then start.

----
CategoryInstallation CategorySystem
