{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

== Editing menu entries ==
Unfortunately Lubuntu does not provide a graphical way of editing the menu, so this has to be done "by hand". The process is very easy however, and all you need to do is to create a <code>.desktop</code> file. These files are normally placed in:
<pre>
/usr/share/applications
</pre>
User specific entries are placed in:
<pre>
~/.local/share/applications 
</pre>

Here is an example called <code>matlab.desktop</code>:
<pre>
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Type=Application
Name=Matlab
GenericName=Matlab R2010b
Comment=The Language of Technical Computing
Exec=matlab -desktop
Icon=/usr/local/MATLAB/R2010b/matlab_icon.png
Terminal=false
StartupNotify=false
Categories=Development
</pre>

* '''[Desktop Entry]''' - Indicates that this file is a <code>.desktop</code> file.
* '''Encoding=UTF-8''' - UTF-8 encoding is used.
* '''Type=Application''' - Desktop file is starting an application.
* '''Name=Matlab''' - Displayed name in the menu.
* '''GenericName=Matlab R2010b''' - Description of the entry.
* '''Comment=The Language of Technical Computing''' - Comment will be displayed when hovering above entry.
* '''Exec=matlab -desktop''' - Path of binary (with flag) that will executed.
* '''Icon=/usr/local/MATLAB/R2010b/matlab_icon.png''' - Path to icon to be used.
* '''Terminal=false''' - The program will not run in a terminal.
* '''StartupNotify=false''' - Startup notification is turned off.
* '''Categories=Development''' - Specifies the categories in which the entry will be placed in the menu. Several categories are specified with a semicolon between them, e.g. <code>Development;Education</code> , a list of standard categories can be seen <nowiki>[[http://standards.freedesktop.org/menu-spec/menu-spec-1.0.html#category-registry | here]]</nowiki>.

'''''Note:''''' ''You may have to log out or restart LXPanel for changes to take effect.''
