{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{{{#!wiki warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
}}}

== Boot ==
There's some information about booting Lubuntu at <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-InstallingLubuntu]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[WindowsDualBoot]]</nowiki> has info about dual-booting.
=== Revert power/logout button back to LXpanel ===

Open terminal and run command:
<pre>
leafpad ~/.config/lxpanel/Lubuntu/panels/panel
</pre>

Then add following lines to the bottom of the file
<pre>
Plugin {
    type = launchbar
    Config {
        Button {
            id=lubuntu-logout.desktop
        }
    }
}
</pre>
Then save the file and logout and log back in. As killing LXpanel and running in terminal lxpanel -p Lubuntu just doesnt fix it well enough as relogin.
-----

=== Shutdown Button is missing from LXPanel, how can I add it? ===

From LXTerminal, please run this command:

<pre>
gksudo leafpad /usr/share/applications/lubuntu-logout.desktop
</pre>

Now, copy the below content, paste it into '''lubuntu-logout.desktop''' file, Save and Exit:

<pre>
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Shutdown
Comment=Shutdown or Reboot
Icon=system-shutdown-panel
Exec=lubuntu-logout
Type=Application
Categories=Settings;
</pre>

After that, please right click on LXPanel > Add/Remove Panel Items > Add > Application Launch Bar > Add > double click on Application Launch Bar > Preferences > select Shutdown from the list and on the right and then click "Add" > Close > Close

{{http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=2428&pictureid=8235}}

-----
=== I want to bind the power-button to change computer state, how do I do it? ===

In LXTerminal:

<pre>
leafpad ~/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml
</pre>

Locate the <keyboard> section and add following lines.

<pre>
<keybind key="XF86PowerOff">
     <action name="Execute">
       <command>lubuntu-logout</command>
     </action>
</keybind>
</pre>

Now the power-button should call the shutdown menu, where you can choose the next state your computer should go to.

To find the name for the <keybind key="<name>"> line of special keys like XF86PowerOff do:
<pre>
xev | grep "keycode"
</pre>
Which grabs the line with the name from xev. Just press the key you want to assign to find the name.

-----

== Install ==
After downloading the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Alternate_ISO]]</nowiki> the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-GetLubuntu | desktop ISO (default)]]</nowiki>, or even the <nowiki>[[Lubuntu-MinimalInstall | Minimal ISO]]</nowiki>, proceed to the install instructions.

=== How to install Lubuntu on 4GB USB Drive ===

Please see <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872303|this thread]]</nowiki> on Ubuntu Forum.

== Login ==

=== Change background of login screen ===

==== For LXDM (before 12.04) ====

Using LXTerminal:
<pre>
gksudo leafpad /etc/lxdm/default.conf
</pre>
and change the value of `bg` to the ''full path'' of your desired wallpaper, such as:
<pre>
bg=/usr/share/lubuntu/wallpapers/new.png
</pre>
Logout and you should see it.

==== For LightDM (from 12.04 and on) ====

Using LXTerminal:
<pre>
gksudo leafpad /etc/xdg/lubuntu/lightdm/lightdm-gtk-greeter.conf
</pre>
and change the value of `background` to the ''full path'' of your desired wallpaper, such as:
<pre>
background=/usr/share/lubuntu/wallpapers/1204-happy-new-year.png
</pre>

-----

=== Changing the LightDM Background ===
Edit /etc/lightdm/lightdm-gtk-greeter.conf
Thanks <nowiki>[[http://www.lubuntutips.com/2012/07/lubuntu-login-screen-changing-lightdm.html |LubuntuTips]]</nowiki>

=== Changing LightDM Settings ===
You can change: 
* Default Session
* Default Greeter
* Allow Guest
* Hide Users and Other options

In LXTerminal, run:
<pre>
/usr/lib/lightdm/lightdm-set-defaults -h
</pre>

Please note that to make any changes, you need to run as `sudo` as it actually edits the `/etc/lxdm/default.conf` file mentioned below. The main advantage is all the possible changes are well-documented.

 == For 16.04 and Later == 

Run lightdm-gtk-greeter-settings and then enter your password for a superuser as this changes systemwide. You then get a  menu to change the background user images and font settings. 

=== How to enable automatic logon ===

==== For releases 11.10 and before it (LXDM) ====

In LXTerminal, run:

<pre>
gksudo leafpad /etc/lxdm/default.conf
</pre>

and replace lines: 

<pre>
[base]
</pre>

to

<pre>
[base]
autologin=<YOUR USER>
</pre>

==== For release 12.04 and on (LightDM) ====

You will need to create an /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf with these contents: (do this as root) 

<pre>
[SeatDefaults]
autologin-user=<YOUR USER>
autologin-user-timeout=0
user-session=Lubuntu
greeter-session=lightdm-gtk-greeter
</pre>

==== Stop autologin For release 12.04 and on (LightDM) ====
You will need to edit the /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf with these contents: (do this as root)

Remove or comment out the following lines
<pre>
autologin-user=<YOUR USER>
autologin-user-timeout=0
</pre>

------

=== How I can autostart a program when logging into Desktop ===
Offical documentation <nowiki>[[http://wiki.lxde.org/en/LXSession#Automatically_start_some_applications_on_login | here.]]</nowiki><<BR>>
If you would like to use the GUI to move the shortcut to autostart, see <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/a/81385/21503  | this answer.]]</nowiki><<BR>>

Alternatively, first you need to copy a .desktop -file to your .config folder's autostart folder.
<pre>
cp /usr/share/applications/urxvtd.desktop ~/.config/autostart/
</pre>
After copying we need to activate the starting from menu:
Menu -> Preferences -> Desktop Session Settings

Please note that the directory may need to be created first:
<pre>
mkdir ~/.config/autostart
</pre>

==== for a PCManFM window ====

<pre>
leafpad ~/.config/autostart/pcmanfm.desktop
</pre>

and change

<pre>
Exec=pcmanfm %U
</pre>

to

<pre>
Exec=pcmanfm
</pre>
Alternatively, Just create a file with these lines:
<pre>
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Exec=/somepath/myapplication
</pre>
==== Alternative method ====
Make the directories "lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart" in "~/.config/"

<pre>
mkdir -p ~/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/
touch ~/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart
</pre>

Then edit the file with the name of the applications you want to start, one per line. Example:

<pre>
pcmanfm
sylpheed
chromium-browser
</pre>

==== Autostart method for all users ====
add the program to /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart
=== Autostart before Login ===
create a script in /etc/init.d/ <<BR>>
instructions <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/a/115938/21503|here.]]</nowiki>
------

=== I want to bind a key to lock my screen, how do I do it? ===

In LXTerminal:
<pre>
leafpad ~/.config/openbox/lubuntu-rc.xml
</pre>

Locate the <keyboard> section and add following lines.

<pre>
<keybind key="W-l">
      <action name="Execute">
        <startupnotify>
          <enabled>true</enabled>
          <name>Xscreensaver Lock</name>
        </startupnotify>
        <command>xscreensaver-command -lock</command>
      </action>
</keybind>
</pre>

And now Windows (Super-Key) + L  should lock the screen.

To add '''Lock Screen icon''' to the Menu and/or LXPanel, please see this <nowiki>[[http://forum.lxde.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=31300|link]]</nowiki>  

------
=== Setting environment variables upon login ===

While <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#How_I_can_autostart_a_program_when_logging_in_to_DesktoRun from the menu lightdm-gtk-greeter-settings 
p|autostarting programs]]</nowiki> has been well documented, it is not entirely clear how to set environment variables upon login. A common one would be adding to your `$PATH`.

Relevant files are:
* `/etc/environment`
* `~/.xsessionrc`
* `~/.bashrc`

To understand the differences between these:
* `/etc/environment`<<BR>>This runs before anyone logs in. It is a good place to set a system-wide environment variable, for example if you have a non-standard folder that must be available in `$PATH` to everyone who logs in.
* `~/.xsessionrc`<<BR>>This runs as soon as you log in. It is a good place to set an environment variable that must be available not only to consoles (see next point) but also to GUI programs.
* `~/.bashrc`<<BR>>This runs each time you start a new console, and lasts only as long as that console is open. A console is a terminal, which you can open from the menu with LXTerminal or, for more advanced use, by pressing Alt-F1 etc. to open a non-GUI console.

If you want to add `~/bin` to your path, `~/.bashrc` will do this automatically - but only in a console. If your GUI programs need to access it, you need to set it in `~/.xsessionrc` (which does not exist by default, so you would need to create it).

To edit a file, use Leafpad from the menu. However, `/etc/environment` belongs to root so for that you need to press Alt-F2 and enter `gksudo leafpad`.

The command to add something to the path is as follows.
* To add (say) `/foo` to the path:<<BR>><code>PATH="${PATH}:/foo"</code>
* To add `~/bin` to the path (note the use of `${HOME}` instead of `~`):<<BR>><code>PATH="${PATH}:${HOME}/bin"</code>

Note that interactive non-login shells and non-interactive shells use entirely different files, but that's a more advanced Bash topic.

------
=== Lubuntu Netbook not launching (11.10 and previous) ===

There is a reported bug, lxdm cannot handle a 'space' between the two words.
<pre>
sudo cp /usr/share/xsessions/Lubuntu-Netbook.desktop /usr/share/xsessions/Lubuntu-Netbook2.desktop
gksudo leafpad /usr/share/xsessions/Lubuntu-Netbook2.desktop
</pre>
Remove tRun from the menu lightdm-gtk-greeter-settings 
he space in Name: (Lubuntu Netbook to make it !LubuntuNetbook).
Reboot, and start !LubuntuNetbook session instead of Lubuntu Netbook

It should work until we have a real fix.

UNTESTED:
You could also try putting it in quotes, like <code>"Lubuntu Netbook"</code>.

Please report on the  if this solution works.

{{{#!wiki comment 
2015-04-08 The following part seems outdated.
------
=== Windows partition does not show up in GRUB ===

Note: This issue existed in 10.10 but should no longer occur in Lubuntu 11.04 and later releases.

<pre>
sudo apt-get install os-prober
sudo os-prober
sudo update-grub
</pre>
/* Comment from 2015-04-08 ends here */

------
== Additional Links ==
Our users found these pages helpful.
## <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair| Boot Repair]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134| GRUB Customizer]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/| Boot Info Script]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/| UNetbootin]]</nowiki>
## <nowiki>[[http://www.plop.at/en/bootmanager.html| Plop Boot Manager]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_boot_record| Master Boot Record (MBR)]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_partitioning| Disk Partitioning]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM| MD5SUM]]</nowiki> 
## <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes| MD5 Hashes]]</nowiki> 
