{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.

Please note the last Alternate ISO created was in 2018-April (ie. original 18.04 LTS media), with none created after that. The Lubuntu team no longer support 18.04 as the 3 years of it's support life ended 30-April-2021.  LXDE is no longer supported by Lubuntu, and Lubuntu switched to using calamares as the installer with the 18.10 release.
</pre>

== Download the Alternate ISO to get the Alternate Installer ==
<nowiki>[[Lubuntu-Alternate_ISO | Download ]]</nowiki>
The graphical installation system (<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Ubiquity|Ubiquity]]</nowiki>) requires more RAM than Lubuntu needs to run. This page is a how-to for using the alternate installer, which is suitable for installing old and new versions of Lubuntu.  Yes, there is a <nowiki>[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xi-VPj4jzrg | YouTube video.]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall| Mini ISO installation instructions]]</nowiki> are useful for users who want a completely bare installation.

Please be aware:  The last Alternate ISO was released with Lubuntu 18.04 LTS. It was not produced for 18.04.1, or later re-spins of 18.04, nor later releases of Lubuntu. If you use it, you'll have a lot of upgrades to download and install (using bandwidth and taking time). 

== Install ==

Do you need instructions for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto|Burning an ISO?]]</nowiki> or making USB stick bootable with <nowiki>[[UNetbootin]]</nowiki>?
* Booting the CD? Remember to "Check Disc for defects" just in case. 

Use the following keys for the installer: Tab, Enter, Arrow Keys, and Space Bar to select.  If you need to "Go Back" press Escape.

Instructions:
1. If When the CD boots please select your language for the installation process.  (Arrow Keys, then Enter). If it doesn't boot, check that your computer is set to boot from CD/USB.
2. At the installation screen select "Install Lubuntu"
3. Select your language & then your country/territory (locale).
4. Select your keyboard layout by selecting "No"
4. Alternatively, it can detect your keyboard layout. (You will be asked to press some keys.)
5. Wait.
6. It will then ask you to specify a computer name to identify your computer on the local network.
7. It asks for your name, mostly if you decide to setup email.
8. It asks for username, password.  This is your login to Lubuntu.  If you lose this information, I can't help you.
9. It asks to encrypt your home directory.  You can secure your private information this way.
7. The installer will then try to set up the clock and ask you to confirm that what it has detected as your timezone is correct.
8. This leads you to the Partitioning screen - Most users will simply want 'Guided - use entire disk'. Changes are not made until you confirm them.
  Basically you have these options:
* Manual- Create as many Ext4 partitions as you like, make sure you have / mounted, and a swap file partition set as swap.
* Guided - use entire disk, erasing everything on your PC
* Guided - resize partition, if you have free space.  Shrink a partition and create new partitions in the recovered space.  You did back up?
## More at the <nowiki>[[DualBoot]]</nowiki> how-to.
9. Wait.  (Installing base system) 

10. The http proxy information is then asked for, if you do not use a proxy (most home users do NOT use a proxy) then it is ok to leave this blank.
11. Wait (installing software) 
12. After this is complete it will move on to the Grub installation. It will ask you a question on where to install it, for everyone using the 'Use entire disk' in the partitioning editor earlier you can just take the recommended option of 'Install the GRUB boot loader to the master boot record?' and hit enter.
13. Finally you have reached the 'Finish the installation' section where it will confirm your system clock is UTC (again most users can just say yes unless you are sure it isn't) and it will then ask you to remove the CD/USB so the next time you boot up from the disk.

