{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<pre> warning
{X} This wiki should be considered '''unmaintained''' and '''deprecated''', though some information may still be relevant. Please instead refer to <nowiki>[[ https:--lubuntu.me | Lubuntu.me ]]</nowiki>.
</pre>

=== How to install Skype ===

Menu > System Tools > Synaptic Package Manager

From '''Settings''' Menu, choose '''Repositories''' then select the second tab '''Other Software'''

Then select '''Canonical Partners''', Close then '''Reload'''.

After that, type '''Skype''' in the search box, right click, Mark for installation then Apply.
After installation, Skype will be available under Internet Menu.  

-----
------
=== Install Virtualbox Guest Additions onto a Lubuntu Virtual Machine ===
First step: Install required software
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install make gcc
</pre>

Next, use Virtualbox to download the Guest Additions, then select "Install Guest Additions" from the Virtualbox menu.

If the VBOXADDITIONS cd does not pop up in File Manager, Use File Manager to open the contents of the VBOXADDITIONS cd, then open a terminal there, by going to File Manager's menu and selecting 'Open Current Folder in Terminal'

<pre>
sudo sh VBoxLinux*
</pre>

reboot and enjoy!
-----
=== Remote Desktop/ VNC on Lubuntu ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/RemoteDesktop |Read the other wiki]]</nowiki>
=== Delete List of "Recently Used" ===
Lubuntu tracks which douments you have recently opened.  You can see the list in the file dialog.  Here's how to delete the list:  (Apps will still remember the list until you restart them)
<pre>
rm ~/.local/share/recently-used.xbel
</pre>

-----
=== Need to install Adobe Flash Player or MP3 codecs ===
Install the package: lubuntu-restricted-extras 

Or in case you want to avoid unwanted packages from lubuntu-restricted-extras, install only flash with:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install adobe-flashplugin
</pre>

and only mp3 codec by installing the synaptic package called '''libavcodec-extra-53'''

------
=== Conky ===
Conky requires a special config file for systems without compositing (Lubuntu by default)
<<BR>>try a config here: http://fauzimh.wordpress.com/2012/02/22/lubuntu-little-tweaks-1/

See also - this is the easiest Conky that you can install: <nowiki>[[http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/07/conky-2-nice-conky-desklet-for-your.html |  Conky Desklet]]</nowiki>
