{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== FerriniMatias ==

'''English:'''
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
My name is Matias Ferrini, I'm from La Plata - Buenos Aires - Argentina<<BR>>
I'm user of ubuntu since 2004, began with hoary.<<BR>> 
My contribution to the community always was from: 

********* The http://www.Ubuntu-es.org Page 
********* Channel IRC #ubuntu-is at irc.freenode.net 
********* From my blog <nowiki>[[http://redavalon.blogspot.com|Isla Avalon]]</nowiki> 

That's not much, but each sand grain helps...<<BR>>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'm a member too:

'''Lanchpad:'''

********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-es-freenode|ubuntu-es]]</nowiki>
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-school-support|Edubuntu School Support]]</nowiki>  
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-art|Ubuntu Artwork Team]]</nowiki>
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-marketing|Ubuntu Marketing Team]]</nowiki>
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~uluga|Ubuntu Linux User Group Argentina]]</nowiki>

'''Beryl:'''

I'm still translate Beryl to Spanish argentinian (es_AR)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I'm thinking to teach '''Ubuntu/linux''' to childrens of 9 years old, I believe that it is good idea to begin with them on early age. It's still it is a project, but with time I will carry out it

In all that a can help to '''Ubuntu's community''', please contact to me...

I'm still working in this wiki, thanks
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

'''Spanish:'''
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mí nombre es Matias Ferrini, soy de La Plata - Buenos Aires - Argentina.<<BR>>
Soy usuario de ubuntu desde el 2004, comencé con hoary.<<BR>>
Mí aporte a la comunidad siempre fué desde:
                            
********* La Página http://www.Ubuntu-es.org
********* El Canal IRC #ubuntu-es en irc.freenode.net
********* Desde mi blog <nowiki>[[http://redavalon.blogspot.com|Isla Avalon]]</nowiki>

Se que no es mucho, pero cada grano de arena ayuda....<<BR>>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
También soy miembro de:

'''Lanchpad:'''

********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-es-freenode|ubuntu-es]]</nowiki>
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~edubuntu-school-support|Edubuntu School Support]]</nowiki>  
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-art|Ubuntu Artwork Team]]</nowiki>
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-marketing|Ubuntu Marketing Team]]</nowiki>
********* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~uluga|Ubuntu Linux User Group Argentina]]</nowiki>

'''Beryl:'''

Estoy traduciendo Beryl a español-argentina (es_AR)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Por otra parte estoy buscando enseñar '''Ubuntu/linux''' en mi pais a niños de 9 años en adelante, creo que sería muy buena idea empezar a enseñarles desde pequeños. Aún es un proyecto, pero creo que con el tiempo lo llevaré a cabo.

En todo lo que pueda ayudar a la '''comunidad Ubuntu''', por favor contactenme...
 
Todavía estoy trabajando en este wiki, gracias
