{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Hobby-wise I am fascinated with Open Source software.  I first installed NetBSD on a Mac SE/30 in 1994.  Since then, I moved around various flavors of Linux and finally settled on Ubuntu as my main distro with a secondary emphasis on FreeBSD.  I still play around with Linux from Scratch and previously used Gentoo.  

I also am intersted in Apache, Asterisk, MythTV, SSH, VNC, MySQL, and Postfix, all of which I run.  I'm a bit rusty programming -wise, but have experience in C, Basic, Perl, and PHP.  

My main goal here is to link up with the DC Ubuntu user group.  One of my sons attends Congressional Schools of Virginia.  They are interested in exploring whether Linux could be part of their middle school curriculum.  My hope is to link them up with people at Yorktown High School, which has played a large role in developing Edubuntu, and see if there is any synergy between Congressional's exploratory interest and Yorktown's demonstrated ability.  A secondary goal is to reinvigorate my rusty programming skills by participating in the Ubuntu mentoring program.  After messing around with a number of distros, I truly believe that Ubuntu has hit on a very solid development cycle, which is key to success.

Sports-wise, I practice judo at Sport Judo (sportjudo.net) and Brazilian Jiujitsu.  I also swim and ski.

Work-wise, I am a lawyer.  I previously worked at the SEC Division of Enforcement and am once again in the process of changing jobs.  I'd be interested in helping the Open Source movement from a legal angle as well.  (I have experience hunting down and prosecuting spammers.)   
