{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/obm]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures.
# ''Rationale:''
** Completes the calendaring server specification.
0. ''Security:''
** No current <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=obm|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No current <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=obm|Secunia]]</nowiki> history. See also <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/search/?search=open+business+management|Secunia vuln database query for open business management]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/advisories/product/13933/|Secunia vulnerability report for OBM 2.x]]</nowiki>
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons running.
** Due to the nature of the software it handles incoming and outgoing network traffic.
** It does not directly (not through a library) process binary (video, audio, etc) or structured (PDF, etc) data.
** Tentative source code review performed but it needs to be 
checked from a security perspective.
0. ''Quality assurance:''
** The situations that it does not work out of the box is that if apache is not seet up properly or the debconf questions were not answered correctly.
** The package asks debconf questions higher than 'MEDIUM'.
** No debian upstream.
** <nowiki>[[http://obm.org/doku.php?id=start|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[https://www.obm.org/bugzilla|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** No special hardware is required.
** No test suite is available.
0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses cdbs with a patching system.
** No packaging oddities.
0. ''Dependencies:''
** libconfig-infiles-perl
** libio-zlib-perl
** dbconfig-common
** php5-cli
** php5
** libapache2-mod-php5
** php5-mysql
** php5-gd
** All are in main except for libconfig-infiles-perl and libio-zlib-perl.
 
=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/259776]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
