{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About Me ===
My name is Oscar Gómez. I'm a lawyer at <nowiki>[[http://www.udea.edu.co|Universidad de Antioquia]]</nowiki>. Am currently living in Medellín, Colombia. I've been a Linux User since 1998, I don't really have an approach to linux as an engineer, i'm more like a power user.

'''Some sites/contact info'''
* email: odanielgp@gmail.com
* Launchpad account: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~odanielgp|Launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Proffesional profile : <nowiki>[[http://www.linkedin.com/pub/oscar-daniel-g%C3%B3mez-padilla/38/344/398|linkedIN]]</nowiki>
* Personal blog: <nowiki>[[http://odanielgp.tumblr.com|odanielgp]]</nowiki>
* Microblogin: <nowiki>[[http://twitter.com/odanielgp|twitter - @odanielgp]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

1. Software Freedom Day 2010, Conference: Conferencia “La validez contractual del la licencia GPL en Colombia”
2. Jornadas de Software Libre 2010 - Pereira 2012, Conferencia “La validez jurídica del la licencia GPL”

=== Community ===

* Miembro de la Comunidad de Usuarios de Software Libre en Colombia: <nowiki>[[http://el-directorio.org/Colibri|Colibri]]</nowiki>
* Miembro Fundador de Ciudad Red: <nowiki>[[http://ciudadred.org|CiudadRed]]</nowiki>
* Colaborador en RedpaTodos: <nowiki>[[http://redpatodos.co|RedpaTodos]]</nowiki>

=== Writings ===
* La validez jurídica de la licencia GPL versión 3 en el marco normativo de los derechos de autor en Colombia: <nowiki>[[https://sites.google.com/site/odanielgp/Home/ValidezJuridicaGPL3Colombia.pdf|Enlace PDF]]</nowiki>

=== Objectives Ubuntu ===

1. Spread the free software to communities, friends, universities etc.
2. Participate in events for the spread and creation of new communities in the world of the free software/Ubuntu.
3. Give more visibility to the Colombian LoCo team within the local communities of the free software.
4. Organize, with all that is in my reach, the communities where I participate.

=== Plans and vision for Ubuntu ===

1. Help in all the Teams, reporting bugs, translating, solving questions...
2. Participation and collaboration with all new users.
3. Join to the comunity of ubuntu my friends and all my partners. 

CategoryHomepage

CategoryColombianTeam
