{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Daniel Watkins, apply for MOTU.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Daniel Watkins
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~daniel-thewatkins
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Odd_Bloke/MOTU
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to be more involved in the day-to-day development of Ubuntu (transitions, merges etc.)
** The changes required to fix a package for a transition are often fairly small, so sponsorship can easily cause twice as much effort for each fix
* I want to become a core dev

=== Who I Am ===

I have been using GNU/Linux systems since the early 00s; my initial experience was with Red Hat and Fedora, before becoming a Debian user circa 2006.  Since then, I have run Debian or Ubuntu on pretty much all of my systems, professionally or personally.

On graduating from the University of Warwick in 2010, I worked for a Debian-focussed free software consultancy named credativ.  In this role, I was involved in maintaining a number of Debian servers for clients, as well as developing and packaging solutions for a variety of problems. After that, I moved to London where I developed Django web applications with several startups, honing my Python skills.

In September 2014, I joined Canonical’s Certified Public Cloud team, where I work to make Ubuntu the best it can be in the cloud. In practical terms, this consists of debugging issues, writing tooling for testing and publication, and packaging changes needed for the various clouds in to Ubuntu.

The CPC team was merged in to the Ubuntu Foundations team in FIXME, bringing me closer to the day-to-day development of the distro.

=== My Ubuntu Story ===

==== My involvement ====

==== Examples of my work/Things I'm proud of ====

* Merged irssi 0.8.17-1 from Debian for vivid
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1423499
* Provided a security fix for requests, handling a CVE:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1432555

==== Areas of Work ====

==== Things I Could Do Better ====

=== Plans for the Future ===

==== General ====

==== What I like least in Ubuntu ====

* The cloud image build process is fairly opaque to people not directly involved in it; this makes community contribution (or even sensible bug reporting) difficult
** To improve this, I can continue to migrate cloud image build tooling in to packaged, maintainable formats (where possible)

=== Comments ===

=== Endorsements ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
