{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Read <nowiki>[[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/node/282|the fridge entry announcing this page]]</nowiki> for details and perspective.

These recipes are already confirmed to be included in the book:

* Ubuntu won't start!
* While booting, the Ubuntu logo appears corrupted or just looks odd
* When I start my computer, there is no graphical interface, just a load of text
* I tried to use a Word/Powerpoint documents and the fonts are all wrong
* I want to install an application that is not in Synaptic
* I downloaded an Autopackage but don't know how to run it
* How do I compile an application?
* I can't see the hidden dot files and folders in the file manager
* I deleted something in the file manager by accident – how do I get it back?
* The desktop has hung – what do I do?
* My screen resolution is wrong
* How can I automatically log in without having to enter my login details?
* I tried to upgrade my system but I get an error
* I am running out of diskspace – how do I free up some space?
* I deleted something in the file manager but I don't see the extra disk space
* Another version of Ubuntu is out, how do I upgrade to it?
* When I click the window close icon and my program doesn't go away
* The upgrade notification bubble keeps appearing and I want it to stop
* I went to a website in Firefox and the Macromedia Flash plug-in is missing
* Java is not installed on my system
* I have heard Desktop search is cool, how do I install it?
* My email doesn't work in Evolution
* I downloaded a particular media file, and it won't play
* My DVD won't play
* DVD playback is jittery and jumpy
* When I start some applications, it says I don't have access to /dev/dsp
* My microphone doesn't work
* How do I turn my Ubuntu computer into a MythTV box?
* I can't access my LAN
* My wireless card is not working
* I plug in my USB stick and nothing happens
* I copied some files to/from my USB stick but when I access it later, the files are not there
* My CDROM/DVD is not working
* My CDROM/DVD drive won't eject
* I bought a device and it doesn't work in Ubuntu
* My computer says it is out of memory
* How can I copy photos from my mobile phone to my Ubuntu computer with Bluetooth?
* I can read my USB storage device but can't write to it
* How do I format a disk?
* The keys on my keyboard spit out wrong letters/symbols
* My mouse scroll wheel does not work
* My remote control doesn't work
* How do I find out which hardware works in Ubuntu before I purchase it?
* How can I copy a file from one computer to another?
* My computer is running quite slowly, how can I find out what is going on?
* How can I find out the different options for commands?
* How do I get my root account back?
* How do I add users?
* It was suggested I file a bug report, but I don't know how
* I am getting pain in my fingers when I type, how can I prevent this?
 
=== Contributed recipe titles ===
* How to input in CJK languages 
* How do I install applications ? Synaptic can't find it!
* How to test an iso file ?
* I am running Ubuntu on an older computer and I would like a faster desktop (icewm or xfce)
* Ubuntu takes up too much disk space on my old computer (icewm)
* Ubuntu has not detected my old sound card.
* Nautilus is painfully slow. How can I make it run faster?
* I have reinstalled Windows and now Ubuntu won't start again!
* I've forgotten my password, what can I do?
* My Screen is Blank..
* How do I Backup my settings.

Add the titles of your contributes recipes here.
