{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Your System ===

* Ubuntu Won't Start!
* The Ubuntu Logo Appears Corrupted or Just Looks Odd While Booting
* When I Start My Computer I Get Text Instead of a Graphical Interface
* I Tried to Use a Word or PowerPoint Document, and the Fonts Are All Wrong
* How Do I Install a Package?
* I Want to Install an Application That Is Not In Synaptic
* Nautilus Is Painfully Slow-How Can I Make It Run Faster?
* Add TrueType Fonts to Your Desktop Quickly
* How Can I Test That an ISO File Works?
* I Downloaded an Autopackage But I Don't Know How to Run It
* How Do I Compile an Application?
* I Can't See the Hidden Dot Files and Folders in the File Manager
* How Do I Restore Something I Deleted in the File Manager?
* The Desktop Has Hung-What Do I Do?
* My Screen Resolution Is Wrong
* How Can I Automatically Login Without Having to Enter My Login Details?
* I Tried to Upgrade My System, but I Get an Error
* I Am Running Out of Disk Space-How Do I Free Up Some Space?
* I Deleted Something in the File Manager, but I Don't See the Extra Disk Space
* Another Version of Ubuntu is Out-How Do I Upgrade to It?
* How can I add other Desktop Enviroments?
=== Applications ===

* When I Click the Close Window Icon My Program Doesn't Go Away
* The Upgrade Notification Bubble Keeps Appearing, and I Want It to Stop
* Extending Nautilus with Scripts
* I Went to a Web Site in Firefox, and the Macromedia Flash Plug-in is Missing
* Java is Not Installed on My System
* I Have Heard Desktop Search is Cool-How Do I Install It?
* My E-mail Doesn't Work in Evolution 
* Installing ClamAV for my Ubuntu

=== Multimedia ===

* I Downloaded a Particular Media File, and It Won't Play
* My DVD Won't Play
* DVD Playback is Jittery and Jumpy
* When I Start Some Applications Ubuntu Says I Don't Have Access to /dev/dsp
* My Microphone Doesn't Work
* How Do I Change the Visual Theme?
* How Do I Find and Install New Desktop Themes and Backgrounds?
* How Do I Turn My Ubuntu Computer Into a MythTV Box?

=== Networking ===

* I Can't Access My LAN
* Nameserver Problems
* How Do I Use ssh (Secure SHell) for Transferring Files Across a  Network?
* How Do I Use a Graphical Application Remotely with ssh (Secure SHell)?
* My Wireless Card is Not Working
* I Need to Use WPA or I Use WPA-PSK on My Wireless Access Point

=== Hardware ===

* Ubuntu Has Not Detected My Old Sound Card.
* My Cardbus Adapter is Not Being Recognized
* I Plug In My USB Stick and Nothing Happens
* I Copied Some Files to/from My USB Stick, but When I Access It Later the Files Are Not There
* My CD-ROM/DVD Is Not Working
* My CD-ROM/DVD Drive Won't Eject
* I Bought a Device, but It Doesn't Work In Ubuntu
* My Computer Says It Is Out of Memory
* How Can I Copy Photos from My Mobile Phone to My Ubuntu Computer with Bluetooth?
* I Can Read My USB Storage Device, but I can't Write to It
* Filesystem Fun
* How Do I Format a Disk?
* The Keys On My Keyboard Spit Out the Wrong Letters/Symbols
* My Serial Mouse Is Not Working
* My Mouse Scroll Wheel Does Not Work
* My Remote Control Doesn't Work
* How Do I Find Out Which Hardware Works In Ubuntu Before I Purchase It?

=== System Administration ===

* How Do I Schedule Things to Happen?
* How Can I Copy a File from One Computer to Another?
* I Know an Application Is Available In Ubuntu but Synaptic Can't Find It
* I Am Running Ubuntu on an Older Computer, and I Would Like a Faster Desktop
* I Have Reinstalled Windows, and Now Ubuntu Won't Start!
* How Do I Fix My Disk After a Power Failure?
* Ubuntu Takes Up Too Much Disk Space on My Old Computer
* My Computer Is Running Quite Slowly--How Can I Find Out What is Going On?
* How Can I Find Out the Different Options for Commands?
* How Do I Get My Root Account Back?
* I Forgot My System Password-What Can I Do?
* How Do I Access My Windows Partitions?
* Ubuntu Is Slow On My AMD K7 Computer
* How Do I Add Users?

=== Other ===

* Running Another OS In Ubuntu
* It Was Suggested I File a Bug Report, but I Don't Know How
* How Can I Monitor the Weather?
* How Do I Make Ubuntu Bread?
* How Can I Prevent the Pain I am Getting My Fingers When I Type?
