{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The following instructions demonstrate how to manually download packages and their dependencies for an offline machine (using another machine connected to the internet). 

* For an apt-get like automatic solution adopt http://wiki.debian.org/AptMedium

=== Generating a package install list ===

On the machine that you wish to install a package (or set of packages) or perform an upgrade on, complete the following steps.

==== With Synaptic ====
Within synaptic check the desired packages to be installed or select Edit > Mark all upgrades to perform an upgrade  and select File > Generate package download script. Save the file as '''/tmp/apt-get-list'''

If the machine you are going to use to download packages runs '''Microsoft Windows, go to <nowiki>[[#genurllst|step 2]]</nowiki>'''.

If the other machine you are downloading packages on is unix or linux with wget installed (this includes ubuntu and other major distributions of linux), save the file onto a portable device such as a USB thumb drive, floppy, CD-ROM, Network Share, etc and run it on the other machine as shown below; when finished go to '''<nowiki>[[#install|step 4]]</nowiki>'''.

<pre>
mkdir -p ~/deb_files && cd ~/deb_files && sh /path/to/download-script
</pre>

==== With apt-get ====
If you do not have synaptic installed, you can use apt-get.

<pre>
sudo apt-get update

apt-get install --print-uris package_name_1 package_name_2 package_name_etc | tee /tmp/apt-get-list

apt-get upgrade --print-uris package_name | tee /tmp/apt-get-list
</pre>

=== Generating a URI list ===

In the previous step, we saved the package list as '''/tmp/apt-get-list''', if you saved it differently, substitute the right path and filename here.

<pre>
perl -nle 'print $1 if /\W?(ftp|http.*?)\W?(?:\s|\z)/' < /tmp/apt-get-list > uri_list
</pre>

Now you can copy this file '''uri_list''' to the other machine using a memory stick, network, floppy, etc.

=== Downloading packages on another machine ===
We use '''<nowiki>[[http://www.gnu.org/software/wget/|wget]]</nowiki>''' here to download files here, your operating system and setup might not have wget in which case you could use something like '''<nowiki>[[http://curl.haxx.se/|curl]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://lynx.isc.org/|lynx]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://search.cpan.org/dist/libwww-perl/bin/lwp-download|lwp-download]]</nowiki>''', etc.

==== Downloading packages on a unix-like machine with wget ====

Most popular unix-like operating systems provide wget, these include linux, unix, cygwin, etc.
If you don't have wget installed, install it before running this command. Please consult your Operating System manual, Systems Administrator or Support Channel if you require assistance.

<pre>
mkdir -p ~/deb_files && cd ~/deb_files
while read uri; do wget "$uri"; done < /path/to/uri_list
</pre>

==== Downloading packages on Microsoft Windows with wget ====
If you don't have wget installed, you can get a binary executable here <nowiki>[[http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/wget.htm|gnuwin32]]</nowiki>

Open up a command prompt by navigating to Start -> Run then typing cmd.exe and clicking Ok.
Note the path to the uri_list file, you must get it right for the following commands to work. You can '''drag''' the '''uri_list''' file in Windows Explorer into your Command Prompt window to get the complete and correct path.
<pre>
REM substitute the right path and filenames here
mkdir deb_files && cd deb_files
for /f %g in (\path\to\uri_list) do (wget %g)
</pre>
Now copy the '''deb_files folder''' back to your machine, but be sure to verify that the files have actually been downloaded first.

=== Installing the packages ===
After you have copied the '''deb_files folder''' back to your machine, you can install them this way
<pre>
cd /path/to/deb_files/ && sudo dpkg -i *.deb
</pre>
