{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==
'''Name:''' Ofir Klinger

'''Location:''' Tel Aviv, Israel

'''Launchpad Profile:''' https://launchpad.net/~klinger-ofir

== Contributions ==

=== Summary ===

* Design of the theme to the new Kubuntu website which is to be launched (hopefully) before 10.04 release date.
* Co-ordinate with Canonical the upload of the theme and the upgrade of the website to Drupal 6
* Work with Ubuntu's webmaster on the download page
* Translation to Hebrew

=== Details ===

* Kubuntu website design for Lucid Lynx: With the help of Ryan, Nixternal, Matthew Nuzum and others, I built the site from scratch. My work included doing artwork, HTML, CSS, JS and PHP. Also, I decided on the layout of whole website and also for each page.
* Co-ordinate with Canonical the upload of the theme and the upgrade of the website to Drupal 6. As the theme is meant to be launched before 10.04 launch date, I took care of the theme approval and site upgrade in advance to the release date. (site upgrade and theme installation is still in the works as to this date ).
* Work with Ubuntu's webmaster on the download page. Matthew and I are working on the download page for Kubuntu (under Get Kubuntu -> Download). The work on the download page is more than just design, it involves integration between several technologies and methods.
* Translation to Hebrew - as part of the Hebrew translator team, I work on translating Kubuntu to Hebrew. I also report bugs which are Hebrew and/or RTL related in Kubuntu.

== Future Plans ==

My experience tells me that websites needs a lot of attention and maintenance, and so I will continue to help improve Kubuntu's website. I am also willing to assist in any other design work/project and whenever it is needed.
As a translator I will continue contributing in that area, through launchpad and KDE.

== Thanks ==

I really appreciate and thank to Kubuntu Dev's, and specially to Ryan, Riddell, and nixternal, for all of their help. I also want to thank Matthew Nuzum for his help.
