{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Olivier Gayot, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Olivier Gayot
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ogayot
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ogayot/CoreDevApplication
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.

== Who I am ==

My name is Olivier. I am an open source software developer currently living in Strasbourg, France.

Besides spending time with computers, I enjoy a wide variety of sports including (but not limited to!) cycling, rock climbing, badminton, table tennis, kayaking and handball. I also love playing chess, both online and over the board.

In November 2021, I joined Canonical as a member of the Foundations team. During work, I spend the majority of my time working on Subiquity (which originally started as the installer for Ubuntu Server but now also serves as the back-end for the Ubuntu Desktop installer) and its related components.

== My Ubuntu story ==

In late 2008, I did my first installation of Ubuntu 8.04 as a dual-boot on my family's Intel Pentium 4. This marked my first encounter with Linux.
Shortly after, I heard about Ubuntu being ported to the original <nowiki>[[PS3Compatibility|PlayStation 3]]</nowiki> and started experimenting with Ubuntu 8.10 on my video game console.

In 2010, I acquired a netbook Eee PC and picked <nowiki>[[UNE|Ubuntu Netbook Edition]]</nowiki> 10.04 as my distribution of choice, upgrading it periodically until I eventually replaced that netbook.

Over the next years, I explored various Linux distributions (including Debian and Arch Linux) on different machines.

In 2020, I joined a company that primarily used Windows. This led me to experiment with WSL, which brought me back to the Linux distribution that started it all for me!

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* My <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/commits?author=ogayot|contributions to Subiquity]]</nowiki>
* Wrote the <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/subiquity/commits?author=ogayot|NVMe/TCP POC on Ubuntu]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=olivier.gayot%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|> 75 uploads sponsored]]</nowiki>
* This specific <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virt-manager/1:4.1.0-3ubuntu0.1|SRU of virt-manager]]</nowiki> ; which involved an <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-argcomplete/3.1.4-1ubuntu0.1|SRU of python-argcomplete]]</nowiki> and back-porting other fixes to make the package build again.
* The successive uploads of khmer (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/khmer/3.0.0~a3+dfsg-5ubuntu1|3.0.0~a3+dfsg-5ubuntu1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/khmer/3.0.0~a3+dfsg-5ubuntu3|3.0.0~a3+dfsg-5ubuntu3]]</nowiki>) that started as what looked like a simple fix but kept on giving, eventually ending with me porting khmer's test-suite to python 3.12.
* I've done a few merges, some with and some without git-ubuntu
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sysvinit/3.01-1ubuntu1|sysvinit 3.01-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/1.14.6-1ubuntu1|dbus 1.14.6-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/keyutils/1.6.1-3ubuntu1|keyutils 1.6.1-3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sysvinit/3.04-1ubuntu1|sysvinit 3.04-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/1.14.8-2ubuntu1|dbus 1.14.8-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/os-prober/1.81ubuntu1|os-prober 1.81ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sysvinit/3.05-7ubuntu1|sysvinit 3.05-7ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/1.14.10-1ubuntu1|dbus 1.14.10-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-testtools/2.5.0-3ubuntu1|python-testtools 2.5.0-3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sysvinit/3.06-2ubuntu1|sysvinit 3.06-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/1.14.10-3ubuntu1|dbus 1.14.10-3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lomiri-download-manager/0.1.2-2ubuntu1|lomiri-download-manager 0.1.2-2ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sysvinit/3.06-4ubuntu1|sysvinit 3.06-4ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/opencolorio/2.1.2+dfsg1-3ubuntu1|opencolorio 2.1.2+dfsg1-3ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sysvinit/3.07-1ubuntu1|sysvinit 3.07-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debian-goodies/0.88.1ubuntu1|debian-goodies 0.88.1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|-
| 
| 
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kitty/0.26.5-5ubuntu1|kitty 0.26.5-5ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
|}

* Some SRUs (including SRU validation)
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unattended-upgrades/2.3ubuntu0.3|unattended-upgrades 2.3ubuntu0.3]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unattended-upgrades/1.1ubuntu1.18.04.15|unattended-upgrades 1.1ubuntu1.18.04.15]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-notifier/3.192.30.11|update-notifier 3.192.30.11]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-aiohttp/3.6.2-1ubuntu1|python-aiohttp 3.6.2-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-drivers-common/1:0.9.6.2~0.22.04.4|ubuntu-drivers-common 1:0.9.6.2~0.22.04.4]]</nowiki>
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/virt-manager/1:4.1.0-3ubuntu0.1|virt-manager 1:4.1.0-3ubuntu0.1]]</nowiki>
|-
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-argcomplete/3.1.4-1ubuntu0.1|python-argcomplete 3.1.4-1ubuntu0.1]]</nowiki>
| 
| 
|}
* Three MIRs of Perl libraries as well:
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libio-interactive-perl/+bug/1951067|libio-interactive-perl (LP: #1951067)]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libset-intspan-perl/+bug/1956444|libset-intspan-perl (LP: #1956444)]]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libregexp-wildcards-perl/+bug/1980968|libregexp-wildcards-perl (LP: #1980968)]]</nowiki>

=== Areas of work ===
''Let us know what you worked on, with which development teams / developers with whom you cooperated and how it worked out.''

=== Things I could do better ===

* Being more involved in discussions in #ubuntu-devel (and other communication channels in general)
* Learning more about image building
* Taking more +1 maintenance shifts

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

* Subiquity receives a large volume of bug reports today (especially since its integration with the desktop installer). Many of the bug reports are semi-automated and are not immediately actionable. To make it more manageable, I am trying to filter out the reports using bug automation based on launchpadlib.

* In the same vein, I am trying to reduce the number of bug reports by categorizing the exceptions and only suggesting to open a bug report if it seems sensible.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

* The lack of codesearch makes it awkward to check whether our delta is still actually used.
* Autopkg tests are an important component of Ubuntu and I wish we could have a bidirectional integration with launchpad.
* The documentation is difficult to find (especially when you are a new contributor). Fortunately, this is going in the right direction with https://ubuntu.com/community/contribute and the new packaging guide \o/

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
