{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Ubuntu Hour ===
The Columbus ReLoCo held a very successful Ubuntu Hour on Wednesday, December 2, 2009.

Participants include:
* Brian Freytag (ReLoCo lead)
* Sean Welton
* Jacob Peddicord
* Rick Ucker
* Ting Zhou

Thank you all for attending our second Ubuntu Hour!

Next Columbus Ubuntu Hour will be held from 6-7pm on Wednesday, December 16, 2009 at the South Campus Gateway Panera Bread.

=== ReLoCo News ===
* The Columbus ReLoCo is calling all members in the Columbus/Central Ohio area.  To get more information, or to join the group to stay in the loop, please e-mail Brian "MaskedDriver" Freytag at brifreytag at gmail dot com or join our Google Group at http://groups.google.com/group/ohio-ubuntu-columbus-reloco.  The Google Group serves at a host for collaboration, discussion, and to keep the ReLoCo informed of events going on in the area!

* Cleveland ReLoCo is looking for more active members. I know there are some of you out on the west side, and I would love to get a new meeting spot. Anyone who would like to get in touch, please respond to the mailing list!

=== New Members ===
We'd like to welcome the newest addition to our IRC family:
* meatballhat
