{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

	
''''' /!\ /!\ This page is not currently press-worthy.   Please do not use this material when representing the Ohio Team.  /!\ /!\ '''''
	
== New Open Source support community for Ohio ==

'''''date go here''''' - Since its launch in October 2004, Ubuntu, part of the Debian family, has become one of the most highly regarded Linux distributions, with millions distributed and in use around the world. Ubuntu will always be free, and will not have restrictive licenses associated with it. With these goals in mind at all times, Ubuntu aims at being the most widely used of all Linux systems, and is the centre of a global open source software ecosystem. 

The popularity of Ubuntu has continued to grow. Many local communications have formed around the world for users to meet and discuss the system and offer support and attempt to further the reach of the free operating system. Now one such local organization (LoCo) teams have formed in the state of Ohio. The Ubuntu Ohio LoCo team will join organizations from California, Kentucky, Utah, New Jersey , Illinois as well as groups from around the world in countries such as Ireland, Sweden, Japan and Italy.

These teams offer free installation CD's to be obtained at some local libraries, bookstores, coffeeshops or computer stores. The team also conducts installation parties throughout the state to assist users with installation of the newest version of Ubuntu. Other aspects of these groups are furthering the cause of Ubuntu byboth on line and face to face support for new and existing users of the operating system and educating the public about open source through the use of online forums where users can post questions to be answered by other users who have solved the same issues.   

The Ubuntu Ohio team can be found on-line at http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org. Those interested in learning more about Ubuntu and how they can become a member of the team can sign-up there.

=== About Canonical Ltd. ===

Canonical Ltd. is committed to the development, distribution and promotion of open source software products, and to providing tools and support to the open source community. With a global organization headquartered in Europe, Canonical has employees throughout Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Australia. 
Canonical, the commercial sponsor of Ubuntu, is a global organization headquartered in Europe committed to the development, distribution and support of open source software products and communities. World-class 24x7 commercial support for Ubuntu is available through Canonical's global support team and partners. Since its launch in October 2004 Ubuntu has become one of the most highly regarded Linux distributions, with millions of users around the world. Ubuntu will always be free to download, free to use and free to distribute to others. With these goals in mind, Ubuntu aims to be the most widely used Linux system, and is the center of a global open source software ecosystem. Download Ubuntu from www.ubuntu.com/download. To learn about commercial support for Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu, please see www.canonical.com/support. For more information visit www.canonical.com or www.ubuntu.com.

----
For more information about the Ohio Ubuntu LoCo Team, please contact<<BR>>
Daniel Buch<<BR>>
Team Member, Ubuntu Ohio LoCo<<BR>>
330.671.6937<<BR>>
daniel.buch@gmail.com<<BR>>

----
For more information about Ubuntu in general, please contact<<BR>> 
Public Relations<<BR>>
Canonical Ltd.<<BR>>
1 Circular Road<<BR>>
Douglas<<BR>>
Isle of Man<<BR>>
IM1 1AF<<BR>>
info@canonical.com<<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://www.canonical.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com]]</nowiki><<BR>>
