{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE:''' This page is outdated, but remains for archival reasons.

=== Ohio LoCo Marketing Team ===

'''About:''' Needs as many team members as possible! Will include assignments such as <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320182|these]]</nowiki>. This is a position of glory and high recognition! We have recently merged with the CD Team, so update your links!

'''Leader:''' Daniel (<nowiki>[[Delvien]]</nowiki>)

See <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~oh-marketing|other members]]</nowiki> of the Marketing Team.

=== Proposed Work ===

Sponsorship and advertising for ubucon. (Contact System76, zareason, Canonical, etc)

==== CD Distribution ====
(Put on hold for now)

<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~oh-cd|Formerly the CD Team]]</nowiki>

This team will be devoted to obtaining CD's (burning, publishing, and requesting). This team will also be responsible for finding and placing CD's in physical locations in the state. Also, mapping these locations and publishing them (CD's available at Barnes and Noble in Pickerington, Frappr, etc.)

<nowiki>[[OhioTeam-CDdistribution|Library Distribution]]</nowiki>

Here are <nowiki>[[OhioTeam-CDdistribution-Workbench|some supplementary materials]]</nowiki> intended for inclusion with Ubuntu CDs packaged in 7 1/2" x 5 1/4" x 1/2" cases, specifically when "donating" to libraries.   

==== Lightscribe Project ====

''Started by:'' Anthony S. Hall

''Goals:'' To publish professional looking CD's containing Ubuntu, and other Free Software for other operating systems, to be used in distribution in Ohio and for use by other Ohio Sub-Teams (for example, New User and Linux Education Teams).

''Progress:'' Beginning equipment purchased (one Lightscribe drive, one printer, 200 slim jewel cases, 25 lightscribe DVD's.

''Plans/Next Stage:'' Order 50 pack spindle of Lightscribe CD's, design Lightscribe art and CD Inserts using Official Ubuntu Artwork, design Lightscribe art and CD Inserts for Free Software, including but not limited to, Mozilla Firefox/Thunderbird and OpenOffice.org.
