{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Resource Snapshots ===

==== Introduction To Ubuntu ====
''Downloads:'' <nowiki>[[http://bb.1asphost.com/BrokenBracelet/images/Introduction%20To%20Ubuntu.odp|Presentation]]</nowiki>

<nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/|Licensed under Creative Commons 3.0 Attribution-ShareAlike]]</nowiki>

This document was created as a presentation, to introduce Ubuntu (the OS), as well as the community behind it, and it's philosophy to an audience. Each slide with text contains notes (viewable by clicking Notes in OpenOffice.org Presentation that give hints about giving the presentation. These notes are meant for the speaker, and are NOT intended to be viewable or known by the audience.

So far the presentation is rather short, and there is more content that will be added (such as Ubuntu in schools and businesses, and a more in depth view of the community behind Ubuntu).

__ Tips __:
 A. Remember, never read each slide word by word. This leads to a very boring and predictable speech.
 A. Be prepared to go more in-depth of each topic presented on the slide. Become familiar with all the content discussed, so if anyone needs to ask a question in the end they are more able to do so.

''Appends:'' None

==== Installing Ubuntu ====

If you need help with installing Ubuntu, you can follow the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/|Desktop or Installation Guide]]</nowiki> that pertains to your Ubuntu distribution.

==== Extra Repositories ====

Repositories are discussed in the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/kubuntu/desktopguide/C/extra-repositories.html|Desktop Guide.]]</nowiki>  In addition, you can generate a custom sources.list  <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-nl.org/source-o-matic/|here.]]</nowiki>

A.  Make a backup of your current sources.list file by typing  the following at a command prompt, without the quotes:<<BR>>
"sudo mv /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.backup"

B.  Using your favorite text editor, save your newly generated custom sources.list to "etc/apt/sources.list".

C.  From the command line type: "sudo aptitude update"

then:  "sudo aptitude upgrade"

then: "sudo aptitude dist-upgrade"

and finally:  "sudo aptitude autoclean"

Now you can download and install packages using your Desktop Environment's package installation utilities, or via the command line.

==== Mozilla Thunderbird ====

Due to a reformat of a partition without backing up data, this resource has been accidentally deleted. Work will start again very soon! -Anthony
