{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Discussion Points ===
* OhioTeam news via UWN
** Making news available in all mediums
* New User Team objectives
** Bolster existing support efforts
** Possible inclusions for LiveCDs

=== Log ===
{{{
20:01:14 <meatballhat>        so what's the happs, everyone? 
20:01:36 <theidiotthatisme>      Howdy meatballhat
20:01:42 <theidiotthatisme>      Was wondering where everyone was at :-P
20:01:45 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: why hallo  :)
20:01:48 <bonbonthejon>  hello
20:02:03 <meatballhat>   methinks Vorian is workin' or watchin' the kiddies
20:02:15 <jacobmp92>     probably
20:02:34 <jacobmp92>     we don't have too much to do though, but theidiotthatisme had a topic
20:02:43 <meatballhat>   tonight's "informal" so does anybody want to rant about this whole Dell survey thing?
20:02:57 <jacobmp92>     dell survey or dell ideastorm?
20:03:00 <theidiotthatisme>      meatballhat: Nope, already done that enough on OSnews and watched others blog about it
20:03:04 <meatballhat>   heehee
20:03:10 <meatballhat>   jacobmp92: both
20:03:11 <meatballhat>   :)
20:03:14 <jacobmp92>     heh
20:03:18 <jacobmp92>     they did a crappy job
20:03:36 <jacobmp92>     no offense to anyone affiliated with dell :)
20:03:45 <theidiotthatisme>      Besides the fact that Ubuntu is one of the only that is both community and commercially supported for the same distro >.>
20:03:51 <Brady_M>       No.
20:03:56 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: shoot!    let's talk 'bout your topic :)
20:04:19 <Brady_M>       nod true
20:04:23 <theidiotthatisme>      jacobmp92: The survey didn't seem like it was a very serious attempt. Look at the HP Website surveys, even those are more in-depth and collective
20:04:33 <jacobmp92>     yeah
20:04:39 <theidiotthatisme>      meatballhat: I wanted to ask you about LoCo news on UWN
20:04:51 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: yes!  please ask!
20:05:34 <theidiotthatisme>      meatballhat: Would it be good sense to ask one of our team members to be responsible in updating any news relating to Ohio LoCo in UWN when we have news?
20:06:02 <theidiotthatisme>      For example, the starting of or completion of (implentation) any major projects, or the creation of a new sub-team?
20:06:18 <theidiotthatisme>      Or us planning to attend OLF
20:06:24 <bonbonthejon>  dumb question, bit what is UWN
20:06:29 <theidiotthatisme>      Ubuntu Weekly News
20:06:46 <meatballhat>   it's worth having a weekly reminder about, sure - I personally think it would be very good for our Team if at least *one* member would be willing to regularly assist with the UWN as a whole (myself includud)
20:07:24 <meatballhat>   the UWN keeps getting dropped because its editors keep getting pulled into other projects
20:07:53 <meatballhat>   it's rather silly to call the thing "weekly"
20:07:56 <meatballhat>   :P
20:08:15 <meatballhat>   more like the Ubuntu Occasional News
20:08:24 <jacobmp92>     lol
20:08:47 <theidiotthatisme>      lol
20:08:56 <theidiotthatisme>      meatballhat: How long was it before 31 come out?
20:08:58 <theidiotthatisme>      *came out?
20:09:02 *       cpradio (n=cpradio@cpe-71-79-249-98.woh.res.rr.com) has joined #ubuntu-ohio
20:09:19 <meatballhat>   eep ... it's an awful long time between some releases, that's for sure
20:09:38 <meatballhat>   the fact that there aren't ubuntu users crying out for the thing to be "released"...
20:09:51 <theidiotthatisme>      Is there anybody here (who's not majorly involved with another project or two) who would like to help contribute to UWN? :-)
20:09:56 <meatballhat>   tells one that it possibly isn't all that relevant
20:10:49 <meatballhat>   let's ask this:  does anyone else get their Slashdot News in a daily email, or do y'all just go to the website?
20:11:07 <Brady_M>       I read daily
20:11:13 <theidiotthatisme>      I dont read slashdot O:-)
20:11:22 <jacobmp92>     digg :)
20:11:33 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: or Digg or whatever  :P   :)
20:11:34 <Brady_M>       Linux Journal
20:11:34 <theidiotthatisme>      I dont read Digg either
20:11:34 <theidiotthatisme>      lol
20:11:35 <meatballhat>   heehee
20:11:53 <theidiotthatisme>      OSnews, Ubuntu Planet, and LXer
20:12:09 <jacobmp92>     hehe
20:12:12 <theidiotthatisme>      O:-)
20:12:22 <meatballhat>   my point is that *I* like email and IRC ... others like the Forum... still others only ever visit the Planet
20:12:33 <meatballhat>   there are a *lot* of outlets
20:12:47 <bonbonthejon>  Planet and Slashdot I get thru RSS
20:13:03 <meatballhat>   and somehow there are enough users that overlap for the news to spread
20:13:14 <Brady_M>       nod, that's true
20:13:16 <jacobmp92>     :-P
20:13:23 <meatballhat>   ...but nobody wants to write the news down on the Ubuntu wiki  :P
20:13:42 <meatballhat>   ...or everyone feels like it isn't their place to do so
20:13:43 <jacobmp92>     meatballhat: most people don't consider wikis "news places"
20:14:02 <jacobmp92>     but that is something that cant be changed.. or can it?
20:14:10 <jacobmp92>     ubuntuweeklynews.org....?
20:14:13 <meatballhat>   jacobmp92: that's right ... which is why much of the Marketing Team has taken to drafting it in Gobby insead
20:14:17 <meatballhat>   *instead
20:14:41 <meatballhat>   jacobmp92: this has been discussed in the Marketing Team list ... about making it a standalone site
20:14:51 <theidiotthatisme>      Gobby?
20:14:53 <Brady_M>       Are you wanting to just post points of interest of ubuntu related news articles?
20:14:53 <jacobmp92>     ic
20:15:02 <meatballhat>   the thinking is that The Fridge and the Planet are already filling these niches
20:15:12 <jacobmp92>     runm n
20:15:12 <Brady_M>       yes.
20:15:19 <jacobmp92>     sorry, cat on keyboard :)
20:15:20 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: it's stickier than that, even ...
20:15:43 <meatballhat>   the UWN is roughly half-full with dev-specific factoids
20:15:51 <theidiotthatisme>      meatballhat: The Fridge was never very impressive to me lol I love the Planet though.
20:16:04 <meatballhat>   most of the people who use Ubuntu are *not* developers :)
20:16:10 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: I agree
20:16:13 <theidiotthatisme>      Like me :-D
20:16:19 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: Yep your right
20:16:23 <meatballhat>   the Fridge seems to live up to its namesake
20:16:38 <meatballhat>   "yaaay... I got a B+ on my math test"
20:16:46 <jacobmp92>     lol
20:16:49 <Brady_M>       lol
20:16:53 <meatballhat>   better put it on them there Fridge
20:16:57 *       bonbonthejon gives meatballhat a sticker
20:17:06 <meatballhat>   I'm speeeecial  :P
20:17:09 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: Gold star
20:17:21 <theidiotthatisme>      lol
20:17:29 <meatballhat>   what do Ubuntu users want in terms of "news" ??
20:17:39 <meatballhat>   Self Validation
20:17:43 <jacobmp92>     idk.. thats the problem :-/
20:17:46 <meatballhat>   we want propaganda and success stories
20:17:50 <meatballhat>   :D
20:17:56 <theidiotthatisme>      Fox News!
20:17:58 <theidiotthatisme>      :-D
20:18:01 *       jgedeon slides meatballhat a tollhouse cookie for a job well done...?....  LOL
20:18:04 <theidiotthatisme>      Sorry O:-)
20:18:04 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: soooo true
20:18:24 <meatballhat>   jgedeon: WOW .... I didn't know there were gonna be cookies !!??
20:18:41 <meatballhat>   this meeting gets better by the second
20:18:43 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: Uhm, lesse... What cool programs that can be downloaded. Things that can circumvent a related program on the windows side. many might not know of it.
20:18:44 <jacobmp92>     cookies?!
20:18:51 <theidiotthatisme>      Should we send a notice on the forums and mailing list about UWN?
20:18:58 <jacobmp92>     sure
20:19:17 <meatballhat>   anybody else seen the Debian Package of the Day site?
20:19:27 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: that'd be a start  :)
20:19:30 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: nope. link
20:19:33 <theidiotthatisme>      And maybe we should expand UWN (although biweekly or montly would be easier to handle. Weekly provides a tight deadline for real worlders lol)
20:19:33 <jacobmp92>     meatballhat: yeah, it actually looks interesting coming from debian :-D
20:20:11 <meatballhat>   http://debaday.debian.net/
20:21:05 <Brady_M>       I got somthing for tonight
20:21:12 <Brady_M>       on https://launchpad.net/~oh-new
20:21:13 <meatballhat>   it's a cool idea, for sure ... but the Marketing Team is ever-wary of adding Yet Another site to the list
20:21:42 <meatballhat>   anybody besides Vorian on the Forum Staff??
20:21:53 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: cool icon :)
20:21:59 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: thx
20:22:23 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: didn't we elect you the Team Leader?
20:22:50 <theidiotthatisme>      Yep, but it looks like the ownership hasn't been switched yet
20:23:02 <Brady_M>       Yea, but been hesitent to start making changes on this. I was thinking of bouncing off ideas off people tonight on it before I start making changes
20:23:07 <theidiotthatisme>      Technical detail, we'll have to ask Vorian about it when we find him
20:24:10 <Brady_M>       I was going to ask tonight, you all agree the New user team should have a focus of thinking a new user is NEw NEW, and not a poweruser correct?
20:24:37 <jacobmp92>     Brady_M: yep
20:24:39 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: that's *my* thinking for what it's worth :)
20:24:40 <Brady_M>       that's my thinking of what the New user team should work on.
20:24:51 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: What all did you have in mind?
20:25:49 <Brady_M>       I wanted to cover all the basis on making FAQ's or refering to existing FAQ's that are gui friendly, and are detailed to the T that could help someone very green to the Distro
20:26:18 <Brady_M>       The training wheels
20:26:26 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: what about putting together HowTo's and such on the Forum and Wiki?
20:26:27 <Brady_M>       get them confratable using it.
20:26:40 <meatballhat>   these are already pretty well-established methods
20:26:43 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: I have an idea!
20:26:46 <Brady_M>       once they feel confratable, they would likley venture out to do more advanced things
20:27:04 <Brady_M>       theidiotthatisme: shoot
20:27:25 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: right.
20:27:51 <meatballhat>   we should definitely invest in bolstering existing efforts whenever possible
20:28:31 <meatballhat>   making a whole new (you name it) should be avoided like it be the death
20:28:31 <theidiotthatisme>      Booklet content ;)
20:28:42 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: woooohooo!!
20:28:49 <meatballhat>   that's what I'm talking about !!!
20:29:04 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme == The Collaboratron
20:29:10 <theidiotthatisme>      Joint venture ;) Would be a great first project for the New User Team, and both the marketing and education team can help
20:29:18 <Brady_M>       We are Uborg. Yes
20:29:54 <theidiotthatisme>      meatballhat and I have discussed pulling content from the Desktop User Guide available online, and adding information on the Windows Programs side of the CD, along with information on getting more help
20:30:13 <theidiotthatisme>      Could be done in under a week, and give a boost to the New User and Marketing Team (could finally get the Library deal going)
20:30:54 <theidiotthatisme>      I'll continue to work on education resources so we can tell the libraries we'd be interested in holding workshops at the libraries to help further adoption of Ubuntu into the catalog
20:30:55 <meatballhat>   there's already plenty of material here:   doc.ubuntu.com  and here:  www.gnome.org
20:31:06 <Brady_M>       OK. So do we have an outlet of top common issues (besides Beryl and broadcom, and that seems to being addressed on dev side)
20:31:20 <meatballhat>   and here:  www.theopencd.org
20:31:55 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: much shorter than that, even
20:32:02 <Brady_M>       OK. another thing, the booklet a linux/Windows comparitive guide?
20:32:05 <meatballhat>   how to boot from CD... and...
20:32:15 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: How aobut: LiveCD, Installation, Software Management (add/remove software, repositories), installing codecs/media, etc.
20:32:16 <meatballhat>   how to install FOSS in Windows
20:32:22 <theidiotthatisme>      *about
20:33:01 <theidiotthatisme>      yes, and how to install FOSS in Windows using the Ubuntu CD ;)
20:33:16 <meatballhat>   this first time out should be niiiice and simple ... we're talking 4 pages with 2 sides
20:33:17 <Brady_M>       lot of ideas here. can we tacle a top 10 or 20 common questions a new user asks?
20:33:25 <Brady_M>       er tackle
20:33:26 <theidiotthatisme>      The content is mostly written, and it'd be simple to pull and compile and *integrate* the information
20:33:44 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: The two most common: Media Codecs, and .Exe's
20:33:50 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: that's good to know (the top 10 or 20) but it's waaay too much information for this little booklet
20:34:33 <Brady_M>       theidiotthatisme: OK, so the codecs are what. mp3, divix, flash, java, any I'm missing here?
20:34:34 <jgedeon>       How big of an html file would it end up being if you just did it in html and put it on the disk?
20:34:39 <meatballhat>   the System Documentation that's included on the LiveCD is far greater than anything we can throw into a booklet
20:34:43 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: I'd stick with the two most common, along with the Ubuntu-specific (LiveCD, Install, Software, etc.), and installing FOSS with the Ubuntu CD
20:34:46 <theidiotthatisme>      How is that? :-)
20:35:07 <meatballhat>   jgedeon: that, too ... we don't want to make a custom distro  :(
20:35:11 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: Codecs: mp3/wma/wmv/mpg/divx/flash/java
20:35:21 <meatballhat>   it should md5sum as an Official CD
20:35:39 <jgedeon>       Your already talking making a custom distro with the logo on the splash screen and all hat.
20:35:55 <meatballhat>   jgedeon: we don't want to do any such thing
20:36:00 <jgedeon>       *that
20:36:06 <Brady_M>       So can we create a walk through using the gui Add/remove or all from symantec.. wait.. we'd have to add the repositories wouldn't we/
20:36:11 <meatballhat>   that's *one* team member who wants to make a custom splash
20:36:24 <jgedeon>       Ok..  Guess I've missed a couple of things  in the last couple of weeks.
20:36:31 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: Discuss repositories, what they are, and also do add/remove software
20:36:51 <bonbonthejon>  maybe submit a custom splash screen to the repository, so people can install if they want
20:36:57 <theidiotthatisme>      jgedeon: There will be available a customized Ohio cd, as per the thread
20:37:29 <theidiotthatisme>      jgedeon: But for the booklet, currently, we're looking to distribute sooner with Official CD's in DVD cases until then (and later, with the customized CD's)
20:37:31 <jgedeon>       Ok that must have been what I was thinking.
20:37:36 <meatballhat>   custom Ohio CD's are just fine for those who want them, but that is NOT what we are going to hand over to libraries
20:37:39 <Brady_M>       Ok, who's here DM, .. who here on the new user.
20:37:49 <theidiotthatisme>      What's DM?
20:38:00 <theidiotthatisme>      And I'm on the NU Team
20:38:04 <Brady_M>       DM is one of the new guys on the New user tam DM|
20:38:07 <Brady_M>       sorry
20:38:11 <meatballhat>   me too ;-)
20:38:23 <jgedeon>       me three
20:38:30 <theidiotthatisme>      And the education team, and the communication team, and the marketing team...
20:38:32 <theidiotthatisme>      *sigh*
20:38:33 <theidiotthatisme>      lol
20:38:51 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: they looked lonely (at first) ...  :(
20:39:00 <jgedeon>       theidiotthatisme: don't worry I think we will be talking very soon.  LOL
20:39:02 <Brady_M>       So we can talk about maybe putting a post in the forum. let's then find oh first top 5 common issues and break the work apart and work with the Ed team on it?
20:39:39 <Brady_M>       Thn those 5 think can fit in 4 pages?
20:39:44 <jgedeon>       Right now the biggest thing I hear from my New Users is the problem with myspace messenger or something liek that.
20:39:54 <jgedeon>       *like
20:40:14 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: Maybe, we can add them under a "troubleshooting" or FAQ part of the booklet *if* it hasn't been covered earlier in the booklet
20:40:15 <Brady_M>       oh myspace messenger. hmm. I wonder if someone's made a gaim plug in for that yet. I know xfire is supported now
20:40:40 <Brady_M>       theidiotthatisme: right right.
20:40:46 <jgedeon>       Brady_M: I know there was some work going on with it but still issues since a couple of weeks ago.
20:42:45 <Brady_M>       Ok. What do you ed team have already online. I could pick and see that may been alreadyn coverd? (not sure , excuse my newbieness... I'm tryin' :)
20:43:34 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: The only document online right now is a presentation on an introduction to Ubuntu (hasn't been expanded as of yet) and a link to the Desktop User Guide
20:43:58 <Brady_M>       theidiotthatisme: Covers the user interface features etc.
20:44:01 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: Definitely check out the Desktop User Guide for grabbing information, and also if you have a copy of the Official Ubuntu Book, it's CC-Licensed
20:44:24 <Brady_M>       theidiotthatisme: anyone have the pdf on that book?
20:44:31 <Brady_M>       online?
20:45:06 <theidiotthatisme>      I only own the paperback copy :-(
20:45:30 <Brady_M>       If it's CC then it must be online to look through. I could check google library
20:45:48 <Brady_M>       err google books
20:45:54 <theidiotthatisme>      yeah
20:46:06 <meatballhat>   skippy and Seekker have copies :)
20:46:09 <theidiotthatisme>      btw the Ubuntu Book will be updated for Fiesty :-D
20:46:13 <meatballhat>   in pdf, that is
20:46:51 <Brady_M>       Anyone tested the migration tools features yet in Fiesty?
20:48:21 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: not I  :D
20:49:04 <Brady_M>       I think that would be a goodie for a newbie, if they are attempting to migrate over.
20:49:37 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: We will have to update the booklet after Fiesty's release
20:50:11 <theidiotthatisme>      We should go ahead and push for getting the booklet done as soon as possible to offer the CD's to the Library mailing lists though
20:50:21 <meatballhat>   ...and (assuming we've completed "booklet 1.0") we'll have to get to work on preparing for the next LTS release
20:50:36 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: I'll second that
20:50:45 <meatballhat>   let's knock this project out  ;-)
20:51:31 <Brady_M>       OK. how can we break up work then. I willing to start on the codecs walktrough.
20:51:46 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: do you have the wiki pages already?  the ones on which we're collecting content?
20:52:33 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: the codecs walkthrough would be best deferred to a later time - we need to get the booklet content completed as soon as possible
20:53:21 <meatballhat>   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/CDdistribution  <-- here, and the linkies at the bottom
20:53:24 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: I been learning about using wiki's all this week. all I've done is update https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/NewUser
20:53:37 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: that's great!  :D
20:55:10 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: alright. booklet is there?
20:55:29 <meatballhat>   look at the link entitled "workbench"
20:55:50 <Brady_M>       ok
20:56:01 <meatballhat>   :D
20:56:34 <Brady_M>       You need artwork for the sleeve?
20:56:35 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: I made a li'l change to the NU Team wiki page  :)
20:56:57 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: k
20:57:07 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: please be sure to make your name linky  :)
20:57:29 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: alright, thanks.
20:57:53 <meatballhat>   very awesome ... so we *did* accomplish something here, right?  ;-)
20:58:28 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: Yes. focus. :)
20:59:39 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: OK. So you need a designed cover for these CD?
21:00:02 <Brady_M>       or written inside content
21:00:03 <meatballhat>   wheeee!   I'm outta here for tonight :)   good meetin' all.  Let's get this CD distribution thingy knocked out  :)  ... Brady_M if you'd care to take a whack at it, sure, but it's pretty much handled  :)
21:00:13 <meatballhat>   writing is more important now
21:00:18 *       dwyii (n=dianabuc@unaffiliated/dwyii) has joined #ubuntu-ohio
21:00:27 <meatballhat>   dwyii: seeeester!
21:00:33 <dwyii> Yeeeah, I was asleep... :(
21:00:38 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: alright
21:00:42 <dwyii> On top of that, a really bad thunderstorm just passed over.
21:01:19 <meatballhat>   dwyii: I was just leaving, but hello!
21:01:24 <theidiotthatisme>      Brady_M: We can start by grabbing most of the content from here: https://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/index.html
21:01:41 <dwyii> What's the hap? :P
21:02:02 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: there's the magic page :)
21:02:10 <jacobmp92>     dwyii: that's not all of the storm
21:02:12 <meatballhat>   yo!  anybody here know Wine??
21:02:26 <meatballhat>   !wine | dwyii
21:02:27 <ubot3> dwyii: wine is a compatibility layer for running Windows programs on GNU/Linux. See https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wine for more information.
21:02:30 <jacobmp92>     meatballhat: person, drink, or app?
21:02:37 <meatballhat>   heehee
21:02:45 *       DM| (n=dm@cpe-65-31-7-98.insight.res.rr.com) has joined #ubuntu-ohio
21:02:47 <bonbonthejon>  yum, I wish I had some wine
21:02:49 <meatballhat>   appsons
21:02:54 <DM|>   hey all
21:03:02 <Brady_M>       DM|: hey DM
21:03:11 <dwyii> Hey brudder, how would I get around to REstarting Furc...? 'Cause I closed it. :B
21:03:26 *       DM| is listening to "GOMEZ- HOW WE OPERATE"
21:03:27 <meatballhat>   dwyii: that's a goooood question :)
21:03:38 <meatballhat>   anybody here know their way around Wine?
21:03:39 <meatballhat>   :D
21:03:43 *       Brady_M reading Ubuntu workbench info
21:03:53 <dwyii> I might not have time to work it out tonight...which is fine with me.
21:03:54 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: I do
21:03:58 <jacobmp92>     meatballhat: somewhat
21:04:15 <Brady_M>       meatballhat: what you want to do?
21:04:16 <meatballhat>   Brady_M | dwyii ,   dwyii | Brady_M
21:04:19 <meatballhat>   :)
21:04:27 <Brady_M>       ah!
21:04:31 <meatballhat>   she needs to configure a launcher
21:04:47 <Brady_M>       OK
21:04:48 *       dwyii also has barely any idea what she's doing. :D
21:04:52 <dwyii> Today I learned pwd and ls.
21:05:20 <Brady_M>       dwyii: great1 so you gotten as far as installing it, i assume?
21:05:22 <meatballhat>   the app is in ~/.wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/.....   you get the idea  :P
21:05:38 <meatballhat>   Brady_M: success with that, yup :)
21:05:53 <dwyii> It's installed, and I got it running, although if I open up windows off the main one, I have to force quit them in order for them to close.
21:06:36 <Brady_M>       dwyii: what is the application that you are attempting to use?
21:06:38 <meatballhat>   ...so it's being a bit buggy ...
21:06:39 <dwyii> Furcadia.
21:06:54 <DM|>   hmm
21:07:08 <meatballhat>   http://www.furcadia.com/download/
21:07:20 <dwyii> I mostly use it to get moneys... :P
21:07:38 <meatballhat>   dwyii: my li'l sister is a racketeer
21:07:39 <theidiotthatisme>      Oh question
21:07:42 <theidiotthatisme>      About the booklet content
21:07:51 <Brady_M>       dwyii: OK. Let me check on wine DB
21:07:58 <meatballhat>   theidiotthatisme: yup!
21:08:05 <theidiotthatisme>      Before we bother to get started: Are we doing Dapper or Edgy for the first version?
21:08:19 <meatballhat>   Dapper
21:08:24 <meatballhat>   only LTS get booklets
21:08:25 <dwyii> meatballhat: What's a racketeer?
21:08:35 <theidiotthatisme>      I wanted to make sure :-)
21:08:45 <meatballhat>   all others will just be distributed as they come from ShipIt
21:08:46 <meatballhat>   :)}}}
