{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== When & Where ===
The Ubuntu Ohio Team meetings are on IRC: channel #ubuntu-us-oh on irc.freenode.net. Meeting dates will be announced on the mailing list.
As always the Ubuntu Ohio meetings are open to the public. We welcome any and all visitors.

=== Previous Meetings ===
* '''2015'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/Jan2015|Janaury 2015]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu Global Jam Planning
* '''2014'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/Dec2014|December 2014]]</nowiki> - Planning for 2015
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/MeetingAgendaJune2014|June 2014]]</nowiki> - OLF planning
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/MeetingAgendaMarch2014|March 2014]]</nowiki> - OLF planning
* '''2013'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/MeetingAgenda2013-11-20|November 2013]]</nowiki> - Planning for 14.10
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/MeetingAgenda2013-11| April 2013]]</nowiki> - Planning for the future
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/IRC20130128|January 2013]]</nowiki> - The Joy of !BeagleBoard
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/IRC20130123|January 2013]]</nowiki> - Team Planning
* '''2012'''
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/IRC20121213|December 2012]]</nowiki> - Team Planning
** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/IRC20121101|November 2012]]</nowiki> - Team Planning
* '''2011'''
** N/A - can't find the records!
* '''2010'''
** N/A - can't find the records!
* '''2009'''
** <nowiki>[[2009September13]]</nowiki> - OLF info & meetup, UbuntuGlobalJam
** <nowiki>[[2009August12]]</nowiki> - Final OLF 2009 stuff, Pearson book offer, & NEO group.
** Apologies: we had semi-monthly meetings during this period, but they were not recorded here.
** <nowiki>[[2009January7]]</nowiki> - Regroup! BugJam, JauntyJackalope release party, meetings
* '''2008'''
** <nowiki>[[2008August6]]</nowiki> - Ohio Linux Fest 2008
** <nowiki>[[2008July16]]</nowiki> - Ohio Linux Fest 2008
** <nowiki>[[2008July9]]</nowiki> - Ohio Linux Fest 2008, Bug jam, 
** <nowiki>[[2008April2]]</nowiki> - Ubucon, Hardy release parties
** <nowiki>[[2008March12]]</nowiki> - Ubucon, Hardy release parties
** <nowiki>[[2008Feb20]]</nowiki> - Ubucon
** <nowiki>[[2008Feb6]]</nowiki> - Ubucon, Hardy release party
** <nowiki>[[2008Jan21]]</nowiki> - Ubucon, Website
** <nowiki>[[2008Jan2]]</nowiki> - Council members announced and volunteered to lead sub-teams.
* '''2007'''
** <nowiki>[[2007Dec12]]</nowiki> - Informational meeting.  Reorganization plans discussed.  Polling on will be on Launchpad starting 12:00 a.m. on December 13 and last for four days.
** <nowiki>[[2007September5]]</nowiki> - Ohio Linux Fest!
** <nowiki>[[2007May2]]</nowiki> - Dell and OLF, Subteams and communication, Website
** <nowiki>[[2007April25]]</nowiki> - Website and server, Subteams
** <nowiki>[[2007April18]]</nowiki> - Feisty party, CDs for libraries, VOIP support
** <nowiki>[[2007April11]]</nowiki> - Consolidation of team web presence, website makeover
** <nowiki>[[2007April4]]</nowiki> - Feisty Party, CD distribution, OLF planning
** <nowiki>[[2007March28]]</nowiki> - Feisty Party, CD materials
** <nowiki>[[2007March21]]</nowiki> - Mostly meet and greet
** <nowiki>[[2007March14]]</nowiki> - New User Team goals, LiveCD materials
** <nowiki>[[2007March7]]</nowiki> - Feisty Release Party, Ohio Linux Fest, Status of subteams
** <nowiki>[[2007Feb28]]</nowiki> - Not a whole lot :)
** <nowiki>[[2007Feb21]]</nowiki> - Pending approval by Community Council
** <nowiki>[[2007Feb14]]</nowiki> - Introductions, Team approval, Ubuntu in libraries 
** <nowiki>[[2007Feb7]]</nowiki> - Official Meeting, State of the Team, Activities
** <nowiki>[[2007Jan31]]</nowiki> - CD distribution, Video guides, FOSS in small business
** <nowiki>[[2007Jan24]]</nowiki> - CD Team, Brochures and artwork
** <nowiki>[[2007Jan17]]</nowiki> - Press release, F2F organization, CD distribution
** <nowiki>[[2007Jan10]]</nowiki> - Delayed approval application, Sub-teams, NU support
** <nowiki>[[2007Jan3]]</nowiki> - Team logo, Wiki revisions, Sub-teams
* '''2006'''
** <nowiki>[[2006Dec27]]</nowiki> - CD distribution, Ubuntu expo, Sub-teams
** <nowiki>[[2006Dec20]]</nowiki> - Team approval, Install fest, DIY marketing
** <nowiki>[[2006Dec6]]</nowiki> - Introductions, Team website hosting, LaunchPad project

===== All Subpages =====
