{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Ohio Linux Fest 2008 ===

Date: Saturday, October 11, 2008

Place: Greater Columbus Convention Center, in downtown Columbus, Ohio.

For more information, visit <nowiki>[[http://www.ohiolinux.org|www.ohiolinux.org]]</nowiki>.

=== General Ideas ===
==== What Should We Show / Include? ====

Have an idea? Add it!

* Ubuntu Ohio LoCo banner
* Computers with Ubuntu (Kubuntu and Xubuntu too!)
* Information on pre-installed Ubuntu computer vendors
* CDs, of course

=== What You're Bringing ===

Have something you'd like to bring? Add it!

* Hackett and Bankwell Linux Comic books <nowiki>[[http://www.hackettandbankwell.com/|(http://www.hackettandbankwell.com/)]]</nowiki> stickers, flyers with tear-off tags (Derath/Jordan)(Note: Can we get H&B/Intarcorp publicized?)
* Personal Laptop with dvd burner, with isos of as many *buntus as I can get (Derath/Jordan)
* 1 Power strip (Derath/Jordan)
* Laptop and webcam with "<nowiki>[[http://fr.youtube.com/watch?v=N5ODz3MNd6s|true 3d desktop]]</nowiki>" set up. Also a camera. (KevinLange)
* Laptop running vmware w/ Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu and Debian. DSLR camera. (steved)

=== Partners / Potentials ===

Ohio LoCo is not an exclusive part of the Ubuntu community, and it goes a long way to help forge relationships and partners with other entities in the Ubuntu community. For OLF, there has been some activity to help bring together partners to give the greatest showing possible at OLF, for both Ubuntu and the wonderful community around it (including the businesses, start ups, and hopefuls).

==== Pre-installed Vendors ====
  
* System76 said they would provide demo products, 'Powered by Ubuntu' stickers, flyers, maybe a banner. (in contact with tnseditor).
* Zareason (contacted, no reply)

==== Software Vendors ====

'''Linux Game Publishing''' <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxgamepublishing.com|www.linuxgamepublishing.com]]</nowiki> - contacted by Anthony (theidiotthatisme)

=== Volunteers ===

We need volunteers to man the Ubuntu booth at OLF. If you would like to volunteer, please add your name here, and at a later date we will organize times/shifts, and transportation.

* Anthony S. Hall (theidiotthatisme)
* Steve Dickinson (steved/dsdickinson)
* JacobPeddicord (jacob/jacobmp92)
* Jordan M. (Derath)

=== Potential Volunteers ===

* John F. (tnseditor)

=== Fundraising ===

Goal: $75 (for a booth at OLF)
* *Goal met!  Thanks David Clark Jr. and Anonymous!
