{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

To start the second quarter of calendar year 2013, the Ohio team is pleased to report that during April:

** The High Council was put into mothballs as of April 7th after the resignations of Michael Gilbert and Cheri Francis.  The High Council will be restored at a time when community activity reaches appropriate levels.
** Stephen Michael Kellat assumed the role of Point of Contact and became ''de facto'' Leader as of April 7th.  Kellat continues as presenter of the team's podcast ''<nowiki>[[http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org/burningcircle|Burning Circle]]</nowiki>'' by dint of being the Head Writer of <nowiki>[[http://erielookingproductions.info|Erie Looking Productions]]</nowiki>.
** A <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-us-ohio/+poll/active--2013-04-12|poll on Membership Awareness]]</nowiki> was launched on April 13th to make contact with the over four hundred registered members of the team to see if they are still out there and know that they are still out there.  There were five member deactivations over the course of the poll.  Twenty nine people indicated that they were aware of their team membership, three indicated that they had not been aware prior to the poll that they were members of the team, and one indicated being unsure what the team was.
** Initial contact was made with Ohio Linux Fest to ask if the team could present an UbuCon and have a table.  Ohio Linux Fest organizers noted that they needed to check space availability relative to presenting an UbuCon and that there may be possibilities for having a table.
** A conference call release party was <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/ubuntu-us-ohio/2384-raring-ringtail-conference-call-release-party/|scheduled for the day of the release of Raring Ringtail]]</nowiki>.  Notwithstanding there being RSVPs, nobody showed up for the call and the call was aborted.  Assessment will be undertaken so as to avoid future aborted calls. 
