{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== CD distribution ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right;padding:0;margin:1em;border:none;background-color:#f1f1ed;">
|}

''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-us-ohio-f2f/+spec/ohio-cd-materials

* Created: 22 Jan 2007

* Packages affected: None (''Community related'').

* Owner: Ohio LoCo Marketing Team

* Drafter: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~meatballhat|Dan Buch]]</nowiki>

=== Summary ===

During the formation period of the <nowiki>[[OhioTeam|Ohio LoCo Team]]</nowiki> much attention was given to the difficulty ShipIt has had in keeping up with the demand for Ubuntu CDs.  The LoCo Team agreed that supplementing ShipIt on a statewide level would be beneficial; planning for coordinated distribution with "pickup locations" listed on the LoCo Team website began.

In addition to providing another source for standard, ShipIt-style CDs, it was thought that coordination with Ohio's libraries to provide CDs for checkout would increase awareness and access.  To better equip the average library patron, supplementary materials in the form of a booklet should be included with each ''donated'' CD.

=== Rationale ===

The current official Ubuntu CD wallets contain too little information to be used effectively by absolute novices and will most certainly be replaced by sturdier library packaging.  The goal of this feature is to produce a booklet that will be packaged with an Ubuntu CD in a DVD-style case (7 1/2" x 5 1/4" x 1/2") which will then be "donated" to Ohio libraries.

=== Use cases ===

* Martha is a working mother with three children all under the age of twelve.  The family computer is getting overridden by viruses and malware, and she's tired of buying anti-virus software.  She checks at her local library for any information that might help solve her problem and a librarian tells Martha about some new software they received.  Martha checks out an Ubuntu CD, reads the literature, and decides to try to boot the LiveCD.  After looking around the Ubuntu environment, Martha decides to submit an inquiry on the LoCo Team website listed in the literature to find out more about the possibility of installation.  The LoCo Team responds, helps her with backing up her family pictures and some word processing documents, and in an hour Martha is up and running with Ubuntu. 
 
* John-Boy is a budding computer lover in his early teens.  His dad just bought a new computer because the old machine could not handle MS Windows Vista.  John-Boy becomes the proud owner of the old machine and immediately starts looking online for free software.  His dialup connection proves to be too slow for most of what he wants to download, so John-Boy looks at his local library, happens upon the Ubuntu CD, and within days the old machine is up and running Ubuntu with a host of free applications.  John-Boy's father looks on in envy... 

=== Scope ===

This specification is suitable for any and all LoCo Teams, as it may be duplicated wherever a library or other publicly-accessible location is available.

=== Implementation ===

==== Establish partnerships with libraries ====
* '''''Bottom-up:''''' Walk in the door and talk to ''any'' librarian.  Explain the basic concepts, furnish an introductory letter, offer to make a quick presentation.
* '''''Top-down:''''' Gain support of organizations that service libraries such as <nowiki>[[http://ohionet.org|OHIONET]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://oplin.org|OPLIN]]</nowiki>.

==== Design and produce materials ====
* Repackaging, including the cover insert and booklet: <nowiki>[[OhioTeam-CDdistribution-Workbench|Workbench]]</nowiki>
* Introductory Letter for delivery with repackaged CDs: <nowiki>[[OhioTeam-CDdistribution-EmailRelease|Email Release]]</nowiki>
* Email invitation to be issued on OHIONET and OPLIN mailing lists.
* Press Release to be posted on ohio.ubuntu-us.org, ref'd on mailing list invite.

==== What we will offer ====
* Regular delivery of latest and LTS-release Official Ubuntu CDs within one month of availability, depending on ShipIt. 
* Delivery upon request of non-repackaged Kubuntu, Edubuntu, and Xubuntu CDs. 
* Free volunteer support by email, phone, and even in person (whenever possible.)  
* Free presentations/seminars on Free and Open Source Software to interested parties. ''(separate Spec?)''
* Distribution of course curricula on Free and Open Source Software. ''(separate Spec?)''

=== Related Links ===
* <nowiki>[[OhioTeam-CDdistribution-EmailRelease|Email Release]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[OhioTeam-CDdistribution-Workbench|Workbench]]</nowiki>
* '''Worldcat''' ID number available <nowiki>[[http://www.worldcat.org/oclc/70789906&referer=brief_results|here]]</nowiki>.
 