{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


<nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> Friday is an informal event for the Ohio LoCo. If you've ever heard of a HugDay or UbuntuBugDay, then you probably know what this is. For the uninitiated:

  "The HugDay is a special day where the Ubuntu Community comes together with a shared goal of triaging a specific package or set of packages. Working together allows us to share knowledge and give some much needed assistance to the Ubuntu Developers."

Replace ''Ubuntu Community'' with ''Ubuntu Ohio LoCo'' (though others are welcome as well!) and you have '''5-a-day Friday'''.

Why 5-a-day Friday? Because this is a great way to bump up your (and the OhioTeam's) <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> statistics! Take a look at the following page:
 http://daniel.holba.ch/5-a-day-stats/

If you triage a large number of bugs, then our team score goes up as well as your own personal score. If you do really well, you may be featured on the <nowiki>[[http://hall-of-fame.ubuntu.com/|Ubuntu Hall of Fame]]</nowiki>!

=== Getting Started ===
First, you'll want to see <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> if you're just starting out. That page describes most of the possible bug situations and how to deal with them. Remember, you don't have to actually fix a bug (though that would be cool) but you can do things as simple as assigning bugs to packages, confirming them, adding more information, forwarding them upstream, etc.

Also check out the links at the top of this page for information on BugSquad.

Next up, you'll want to install the 5-a-day application. See <nowiki>[[5-A-Day-Reporting]]</nowiki> for details. You ''will'' need a valid SSH key registered in Launchpad for this to work; information on how to do this is on that page.

Now for the important part: add your reports to the OhioTeam's statistics.
<pre>
5-a-day --add-team ubuntu-us-ohio
</pre>
This will make sure that any bugs you tag also get tagged for our team and that statistics are sent properly.

'''That's it''' for setup. To tag a bug (or multiple bugs) just run:
<pre>
5-a-day --add BUG1 BUG2 BUG3 [...]
</pre>

For example, if I updated bug 12345 and 98765, I would run:
<pre>
5-a-day --add 12345 98765
</pre>

Each time you update a bug, be sure to tag it so that your statistics will update.

=== Reference Links ===
These links have proven to be handy:
* <nowiki>[[HelpingWithBugs]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[Bugs-HowToTriage]]</nowiki> - basic introductions to bug triage
* <nowiki>[[GlobalBugJam]]</nowiki> - special reports listed halfway down the page
* <nowiki>[[5-A-Day]]</nowiki> - handy bug links for certain cases
