{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Welcome New User To Ubuntu! ==

There are plenty of places you, as a user, can find help, from adding your printer to installing new applications.

The first place you can look is the help file on your copy of Ubuntu.

* From the menu at the top of the screen, click on '''System > Help and Support'''.
* In the search field, type in a word in reference what you are
 looking for, such as printing, email, or install programs.
* Click on a topic in the window with information that you need.
 
=== Looking For Help Online ===
The Ubuntu LoCo Ohio team is committed in helping you find answers!
* <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki> is a question-and-answer site for Ubuntu users and developers. It is the most efficient and user-friendly venue to ask an Ubuntu-related question. Your question may already be answered!
* There is an online manual available at https://help.ubuntu.com/
* You can visit http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=191 and post your questions.

==== Immediate Ohio Community Support ====

If you want instant chat support, join the Ubuntu Ohio channel on Freenode. You can join <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-oh|Freenode web chat]]</nowiki> or follow the instructions below. You must already have Ubuntu installed.

 1. Click on '''Applications > Internet > Pidgin Internet Messenger ''' or ''' Empathy IM Client '''depending on your Ubuntu version. 
 2. The first time that it is opened, you will be asked to add an account.
 3. Click on the Add button, then in the Protocol menu select IRC.  We are located on the freenode IRC network.
 4. Type in your desired screen name for the chat session. You may leave everything else as it is.
 5. Click on save. If you see a check box that says "Enabled" above it, make sure that it is checked.
 6. You will be connected to the Ubuntu chat servers, from which you can have two options:
** You can join the generic Ubuntu channel, where hundreds of people are available willing to help you.
** To do this, type '''/join #ubuntu''' once you are connected.
** You may also join the Ohio channel if you want more localized support.
** For the Ohio chat channel, type '''/join #ubuntu-us-oh''' once connected.
 7. Ask away!
