{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Ohio LoCo Education Team ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''If You Are New To Education Team OR Would Like To Learn More:''' Please read the open letter that describes the ideas and practice of the Education Team. Hope it helps! <nowiki>[[http://ohio-edu.ubuntu-us.org/OpenLetter.odt|View Open Letter]]</nowiki>
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| ''Notice:'' It's been a little slow so far getting it off the ground, but I believe it's time to really start kicking things off. Please attend the upcoming meeting on 10/28 so the team can discuss goals, options, plans, and really start things off!
|}

'''About:''' The Education Team is dedicated to increasing user skills in Free Software. This includes but is not limited to, Ubuntu Linux and cross-platform Free Software (Firefox, Thunderbird, etc.), and OpenOffice.org.

'''Leader:''' Michael (<nowiki>[[Seisen]]</nowiki>)

'''IRC Channel:''' #ubuntu-ohio-edu

'''Next Meeting!''' October 28th 5pm EST in IRC
<nowiki>[[OhioTeam/EducationTeam/Meetings|Meeting Schedule and Logs]]</nowiki>

Education Team <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ohio-edu|Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Goals ===
* To create presentations on the topic of Linux, Ubuntu, and Free Software
* To educate and train users on Free software, including but not limited to Ubuntu Linux. 
* To draft proposals for team members to start local workshops. 
* To create and share resources such as lesson plans, class ideas, and software CD's. 
* To offer a service to the community for free to advance their skills using free software.

If you have any ideas that might fall under helping users with free software, please share them!

=== Workshops ===

==== Workshop Ideas ====

  {*} Computer Basics: Know What You're Buying! (Introduction to basic computer hardware).

  {*} Discovering the Internet: Explore The Internet With Firefox 2.0 (Cover how to make the best use of the Internet using features present in Firefox)

  {*} Communicating Over The Internet: Instant Messaging, Email, Forums, and more!

  {*} Managing Music with Amarok / Listen / Rhythmbox / Whatever you choose

  {*} Basic Web Design with HTML and NVU (or any other HTML editor)

  {*} Basic Programming with Gambas / Realbasic / Whatever you choose

  {*} Make Cents: With OpenOffice.org Calc

==== Workshop Resources In Progress ====

(See <nowiki>[[OhioTeam/EducationTeam/ResourceSnapshots|Resource Snapshots]]</nowiki>)

  {*} None right now

==== Completed Resources ====

None Yet

==== Linked Resources ====

'''OpenOffice.org'''

The latest User Guides for the various OpenOffice.org components can be located <nowiki>[[http://oooauthors.org/en/authors/userguide2|here.]]</nowiki>

There are also teaching tutorials at the <nowiki>[[http://www.tutorialsforopenoffice.org/|OpenOffice.org]]</nowiki> site.

==== Current Workshops ====

'''Niles Workshop'''

* ''Location:'' Niles, OH (Trumbull County)
* ''Stage:'' Planning
* ''Estimated Start Time:'' TBA
* ''Target Audience:'' Niles, Warren, Howland, Weathersfield, Girard, and any interested people.

=== Moodle ===

==== Moodle Course Ideas ====

  {*} Advanced Web Design: CSS, DHTML, and Scripting

  {*} So You Wanna Be A Programmer? Learning C/C++

  {*} Setting Up Your Own Server

==== Moodle Resources / Courses In Progress ====

None Yet

==== Moodle Completed Resources / Courses ====

None Yet.

=== Want To Contribute? ===

It is no secret that the Ubuntu Community is buzzing with talent and knowledge. The Education Team hopes to take that talent and knowledge, and share it with everyone in Ohio (and anywhere else someone may be interested!) If you'd like to contribute, there are many ways that would greatly help the Education Team.

==== Joining The Education Team ====

One of the best ways to help out and get involved is to join the Education Team. Joining the Education Team will allow you to know who all your team members are, what their plans are, and more accurately and efficiently brainstorm, plan, and implement ideas. To join the education team, head over to the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ohio-edu|Education Team Launchpad Page]]</nowiki> and click Join The Team. Dont forget to also join the Ohio LoCo mailing list to keep in good contact with other LoCo and Education Team members.

==== Contributing to Resources ====

Resources are the backbone of the Education Team. They facilitate the teaching of Ubuntu and other Free Software by providing potential mentors with the materials they need for workshops or presentations. If you have any ideas for resources that may be beneficial, feel free to add them under Resource Ideas above. Also, if you would like to create a resource that has been suggested, put it under Resources In Progress with your name next to it in Parenthesis (that way, if another would also like to contribute to that resource, they can reach you and help you create the best possible resource).

==== Starting A Workshop ====

All the resources in the world dont do much good if they are not put to use. Right now, the Education Team is currently working on opening up a workshop in Niles, once there are enough resources for providing a solid start on workshops. If you are interested in also setting up a workshop for your area, please add the information under Current Workshops above, and send a notice through the mailing list for Ubuntu Ohio so that others know you are setting one up so they may be able to help or answer any questions.
