{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

The New User Team has meetings every other week. If you are subscribed to the mailing list, you can get automatic notifications of these.

Calendar meetings at this time can be viewed at: http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=8ngiuj1ps42faaecr8s31iiadk%40group.calendar.google.com

We currently have meetings using Teamspeak, which is availible in the Ubuntu 7.04 repositories. To install, from the terminal, type in '''sudo apt-get install teamspeak-client'''

=== To Log In ===

* Click on Applications > Internet > Teamspeak
* Connection > Connect > '''right''' click on servers > add server
* Label it Ohio Ubuntu Teamspeak > Server address is : ''' gatewayawbwific.pointclark.net ''' > Choose a Nickname
* ''' If you were not assigned a registered name, leave the option to log in anonymous your first time '''
* Once you log in and you see any user with the tag of CA or SA by their name, request to have your nick registered.
* When you attempt to log in at another time, change your settings that you are registered, and type in your name and your selected password you created.

=== Previous Meetings ===
==== Audio ====
June 3rd 2007 - http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org/files/meetingjune3rd2007.ogg

June 17th 2007 - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b0FDr_9Vop0

October 7th 2007 - http://www.adminremote.com/numeetings/numeetingoct7th.ogg
