{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''NOTE:''' This page is sorely out-of-date. See the <nowiki>[[OhioTeam-Events|Events page]]</nowiki> for more recent events.

=== US Ohio LoCo Team ===

Our LoCo Team was founded in November of 2006 and continues to acquire many new members since its inception. The OhioTeam focuses on distributing, advertising, and demonstrating Ubuntu in the state of Ohio. Throughout the expansion of our many projects, we intend to focus on local schools, businesses, and home users themselves. Most new members respond with a mix of surprise and relief that an Ohio-wide team has already been established, indicating that the time is right for an Approved Ohio LoCo.

Our primary focus is to address Bug #1: "Microsoft has a majority market share."  We have great confidence that the required dedication and skill is collectively present in our team, and we feel that an official approval will bolster our efforts in fixing this bug.

=== Key Details ===

* '''Date:''' September 17^th^, 2009
* '''Team Contact:''' <nowiki>[[JacobPeddicord]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership:''' 287 as of September 17^th^, 2009
* '''Mailing List:''' ubuntu-us-ohio on <nowiki>[[http://lists.launchpad.net/ubuntu-us-ohio|lists.launchpad.net]]</nowiki>
* '''IRC:''' #ubuntu-us-oh on irc.freenode.net
* '''Forums:''' <nowiki>[[http://ohio.ubuntuforums.org/]]</nowiki>
* '''Website:''' <nowiki>[[http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org/]]</nowiki>

=== Roadmap ===

* '''Sub-Teams:''' Establish sub-teams dedicated to specific OhioTeam tasks, including the website, wiki pages, marketing materials, CD/DVD distribution, intra-team communication, and new user support and education.
* '''Collaboration with Partners:''' Make contact with all Ubuntu Partners located in Ohio and propose the possibility of mutually beneficial partnerships, sponsorships, and cross-promotions.
* '''Collaboration with LUGs:''' Contact Ohio LUGs and other computer user groups to coordinate joint events with a strong emphasis on adoption of Ubuntu as the desktop computing environment of choice.
* '''Civic Advocacy:''' Contact local governments, school boards, universities, and public libraries to foster adoption of Ubuntu as a safer and less costly alternative to the dominant desktop and server operating systems.  This would include proposing partnerships with said organizations to help distribute Ubuntu CDs and DVDs. 
* '''Environmental Responsibility:''' Form alliances with FreeGeek franchises and computer recycling businesses in Ohio to foster adoption of Ubuntu by underprivileged or frugal computer users.

=== Experience ===

* '''<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/USTeams/|USTeams Project]]</nowiki>:''' Partnered with the UtahTeam to found the USTeams LoCo resources project.
* '''LoCo Team Mentor:''' Helped set up team resources and provide guidance and information to the KentuckyTeam, the ArizonaTeam, and the <nowiki>[[GeorgiaUSTeam|GeorgiaTeam]]</nowiki>.
* '''Communication Channels:''' We have created and are actively making use of all major lines of communication, including a mailing list, an OhioTeam subforum, an IRC channel, and a wiki.
* '''Team Website:''' We've created a dedicated website within ubuntu-us.org domain (<nowiki>[[http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org|website]]</nowiki>). The <nowiki>[[..-WebTeam|WebTeam]]</nowiki> is responsible for updating and maintaing IRC logs, meeting times, and the to-do list. Anthony Hall also runs an <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuohio.blogspot.com/|Ubuntu blog]]</nowiki>.
* '''Feisty Install Fest'''
** Forum: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320430/]]</nowiki>
* '''Feisty Release Party'''
** Forum: <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=328245/]]</nowiki>
* '''Gutsy Release Party'''
** Forum: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=568332]]</nowiki>
* '''Educational Workshops'''
** Local workshops are being created for FOSS, Ubuntu, OpenOffice, and Thunderbird.
** Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/EducationTeam
** Forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=331102&highlight=workshop
** IRC: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/2007Jan10
* '''New User Support'''
** We have several volunteers willing to do F2F support, as well as plans for free support via telephone, Skype, VOIP, etc.
** Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/NewUserTeam
** Forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=340888
** IRC: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/2007Jan10
* '''Promotion of F2F Support'''
** We have drafted a press release that advertises our support program to be distributed throughout the state.
** Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/MarketingTeam/PressRelease
** Forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320182&highlight=marketing
** IRC: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/2007Jan17
* '''CD Distribution Project'''
** We've drafted materials to accompany CDs, possible Lightscribe enhancements, as well as planned library distribution.
** Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/MarketingTeam
** Forum: http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=338577
** IRC: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/Meetings/2007Jan17
* '''Ubuntu LiveCD Guide'''
** We have created an extensive guide to an Ubuntu LiveCD for new users.
** Wiki: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OhioTeam/UbuntuCDExplanation
* '''Wiki Renovation'''
** Our team wiki was described as "VERY neat" by SABDFL!
* '''Ubuntu Members'''
** StephenStalcup
** DanBuch
** Seisen
