{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


It's been set: the date for our 9.04 release party will be '''May 9''' at '''Panera Bread in Easton''' (just north of Columbus). It will officially start at '''5pm''' and ends when everyone leaves -- or when Panera kicks us out at 10. Even if you can't stay for long, if you're in the area be sure to drop by.  If you cannot attend, we will try to broadcast the event at http://www.ustream.tv/channel/ubuntu-ohio.

'''Map''' & driving directions:
http://tinyurl.com/ohioparty

Take this chance to meet other Ubuntu users, network, and have a good time. There may be some opportunities to get involved with Ubuntu development and bug triage.

Why so late? Because we'll have CDs. If you just can't wait for ShipIt to make a delivery, we will have them available (for free, of course). The LoCo stack usually includes a bunch of Ubuntu i386 and amd64 editions, as well as some Kubuntu and Server discs.

If you want, bring a laptop, though don't feel obligated. Bring money for food at Panera if you desire ($5 covers most items on the menu). And of course, feel free to bring friends!

If you are far away from Columbus, consider carpooling with others in your area. If you need a ride but don't know if anyone else is attending, post a message to the Ohio mailing list with your location to see if anyone else will be going. Heck, feel free to come even if you aren't from Ohio, but happen to be going through the area.
