{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== OKlaLoCo Newsletter Issue#2 ==

1.1 BEYOND THE DESKTOP<<BR>>
1.2 OKLAHOMA LOCO NEWS<<BR>>
1.3 COMMUNITY NEWS<<BR>>
1.4 PODCASTS AND NEWSLETTERS<<BR>>
1.5 I LEAVE YOU WITH, LINKS<<BR>>
------------------------------------------------------------------

=== 1.1 BEYOND THE DESKTOP ===
Sharing and cooperation is at the heart of the open source movement. In the Free Software world, we collaborate freely on a volunteer basis to build software for everyone's benefit. We improve on the work of others, which we have been given freely, and then share our improvements on the same basis. I dug up this bit of the Ubuntu Code of Conduct because I feel it helps illustrate that free open source software is about more than the jobs it allows us to do. It is also caring about what kind  of society we want, or even allowed to have. What does society need? It needs information that is truly available to all its citizens—for example, programs that people can read, fix, adapt, and improve, not just operate. Society also needs freedom. When a program has an owner, the users lose freedom to control part of their own lives. And above all society needs to encourage the spirit of voluntary cooperation in its citizens. Free software is a matter of freedom, not price.

Maybe I am just a hopeless romantic but I find this aspect of the open source community very inspirational. Just realizing the opportunity that lays before us to make a difference. I believe this difference could help shape our society for the better in many ways.
-duanedesign

If you have anything you would like to add to the newsletter whether it is a one off piece of news or a recurring article email me at (duanedesign at gmail dot com).
----------------------------------------------------------------

== 1.2 OKLAHOMA LOCO NEWS == 

Become a 76er - http://system76.com/article_info.php?articles_id=26
 

System 76 is stepping up and helping LoCo's advocate Linux. I think this would be a good idea for us to look into. 76er's have access to custom printed flyers and 'Powered by Ubuntu' stickers.

Oklahoma Loco OKC Meet Up and okcCoCo Ubuntu Day
Ubuntu Day was a blast. Well worth the trip me and wisd0m made from Tulsa. In case you missed it there are some videos of the talks given on the okccoco website.
http://okccoco.com/?page_id=223
 

* Kernel hacks and optimization - Tyler Earman - Stuph Labs
* “e17 - The Enlightment Desktop Environment
 
” by Charlie Southerland – Stuph Labs
I have been hearing a lot of good things about e17.
* “How-to create a customized live environment in Ubuntu”- Michael Beam - Stuph Labs 

OK Loco Tulsa Meet Up
The Tulsa Meetups are a fun and informal way to share Ubuntu and Linux with friends. Don't miss out. We are meeting every other Wednesday 7:30 at the Coffee House on Cherry Street http://tiny.cc/jAAT8
 
. We are announcing them on Twitter, the mailing list, and usually on IRC.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

== 1.3 COMMUNITY NEWS == 

Masters of the Universe - Packaging Training Sessions
Regularly scheduled Packaging Training sessions are being planned. These weekly one-hour sessions in #ubuntu-classroom on Freenode will consist of short demonstrations and offer plenty of time to ask all kind of questions. The goal is to have a session every Thursday.
Upcoming Sessions

*** 

      11th June, 12:00 UTC
       
      : ttx, Java library packaging

*** 

      18th June, 18:00 UTC, TBD

*** 

      25th June, 00:00 UTC
       
      : nhandler, Testing your packages using pbuilder

How to request a session

If there is an area of Ubuntu packaging that you would like to know more about then you can request a session here so that it will be covered in MOTU/School
 
. Any topic can be requested, but note that if it is just a quick question the Q+A events may be more appropriate. MOTU School is designed to cover larger topics in more depth

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/School/Requests
 

Once a presenter is found for your session then it will be scheduled for a session in #ubuntu-classroom, keep your eyes open for the announcement of this.

Packaging Resources<<BR>>

*** MOTU/GettingStarted  
      - Take the first steps in becoming a Master Of The Universe!
*** MOTU/Videos
      - Links to MOTU video tutorials and interviews
*** PackagingGuide/Recipes 
      - Some small recipes explaining basic MOTU tools.
*** PackagingGuide/HandsOn
      - Some hands on packaging tutorials.
*** The Ubuntu Packaging Guide
      - The complete guide to packaging for Ubuntu.

Ubuntu Brainstorm Top 5<<BR>>

*** Let people know that Ubuntu is sold pre-installed - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/20119/
       
*** Use the new ubuntu notifications to alert when hardware is detected - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/20125/
       

*** Ubuntu startup is disjointed - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/20141/
       

*** Left-handed interface, especially for hand-helds - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/20140/
       

*** Make Gimp faster - http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/20124/
       

       

Advocating Linux<<BR>>

Share your personal experiences (good and bad) with Linux. Everyone knows that software has bugs and limitations and if we only have glowing comments about Linux, we aren't being honest. I love to tell people about having to reboot four times (three scheduled) in three years.

*** If someone has a problem that Linux may be able to solve, offer to provide pointers to appropriate information (Web pages, magazine articles, books, consultants, ...). If you haven't actually used the proposed solution, say so.

*** If you are available for making presentations about Linux, register with the Linux Speakers Bureau
       
      .

*** Offer to help someone start using Linux. Follow up to make sure that they are able to use their system effectively.

*** Some people still believe that Linux and similar systems operate only in text-mode. Make sure that they are aware of the availability of graphical applications, such as the Gimp
       
      .

*** Try to respond to one ``newbie'' posting each week. Seek out the tough questions, you may be the only one to respond and you may learn something in the process. However, if you aren't confident that you can respond with the correct answer, find someone that can.

*** Seek out small software development firms and offer to make a presentation about Linux.

*** If the opportunity arises, make a presentation to your employer's Information Technology group.

*** Participate in community events such as NetDay
       
While your first priority must be to contribute to the success of the event, use the opportunity to let others know what Linux can do for them.

*** Always consider the viewpoints of the person to whom you are ``selling'' Linux. Support, reliability, interoperability and cost are all factors that a decision-maker must consider. Of the above, cost is often the least important portion of the equation.

*** Availability of support is often mentioned as a concern when considering the adoption of Linux. Companies such as Caldera, Cygnus Solutions, Red Hat, and S.u.S.E. offer support for some or all components of a typical Linux distribution. In addition, the Linux Consultants HOWTO provides a listing of companies providing commercial Linux related support. Of course, some of the best support is found in the comp.os.linux and linux newsgroup hierarchies.

*** Point out that the production of open-source software takes place in an environment of open collaboration between system architects, programmers, writers, alpha/beta testers and end users which often results in well documented, robust products such as Apache, GNU Emacs, Perland the Linux kernel
       
      .

*** Stand up and be counted! Register with the Linux Counter
       
      . Also the Ubuntu Counter http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net/
       

*** Report successful efforts of promoting Linux to Linux International
       
      ( li@li.org) and similar organizations.

*** Find a new home for Linux CD-ROMs and books that you no longer need. Give them to someone interested in Linux, a public library or a school computer club. A book and its CD-ROM would be most appropriate for a library. However, please be sure that making the CD-ROM publicly available does not violate a licensing agreement or copyright. Also, inform the library staff that the material on the CD-ROM is freely distributable. Follow up to make sure it is available on the shelves.

*** When purchasing books about software distributed with Linux, give preference to books written by the author of the software. The royalties that authors receive from book sales may be the only monetary compensation received for their efforts. <-- Need to fix or change the Powered by Linux text -->

*** Encourage Linux-based sites to submit their entry for the Powered by Linux page and suggest that banners promoting Linux, Apache, GNU, Perl... be displayed on their site.

*** Participate! If you have benefited from open-source software, please consider assisting the free software community by:

*** submitting detailed bug reports
*** writing documentation
*** creating artwork
*** supplying management skills
*** suggesting enhancements
*** providing technical support
*** contributing software
*** donating equipment
*** furnishing financial support.

Some of the ways you can get involved with Ubuntu: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ContributeToUbuntu
 

http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate
 

The Linux Documentation Project provides a list of Linux and Linux-related projects.

NOTE: Be on the look out for projects we can do together as a group.

---------------------------------------------------------------

== 1.4 PODCASTS AND NEWSLETTERS == 

Linux Outlaws - is a podcast about Linux and free and open source software. We are normal users like yourself rather than part of the in-crowd of community leaders and hardcore kernel.  Hackers. http://www.linuxoutlaws.com/
 
 

Bored and Blogging - Ubuntu Podcast #29: We discuss Linux.com, Ubuntu One, don’t use SHA-1, Dell promoting Ubuntu on Mini 10, Phoronix compares Ubuntu 9.04 vs Mac OS X 10.5.6, and how to join LoCo teams.
http://ubuntupodcast.net/2009/05/21/ubuntu-podcast-episode-29/
 
 

Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter - Issue 145 for the week June 1 - 7, 2009. In this issue we cover Ubuntu Hall of Fame: Adi Roiban, Ubuntu Stats, Ubuntazo In Venezuela, Ubuntu Forums Tutorial of the Week, In the Press & Blogosphere, Upcoming Meetings & Events, Updates & Security, and much, much more! 
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuWeeklyNewsletter/Issue145
 
----------------------------------------------------------------

== 1.5 I LEAVE YOU WITH, LINKS == <<BR>>

This is the Ubuntu Packaging blog. A group of Ubuntu Developers will write here regularly about Packaging Training sessions that are about to happen and about how you get involved in Ubuntu development.
http://ubuntupackaging.wordpress.com/
 

Install firefox 3.5 “Shiretoko” (which is what 3.1 became) or the more cutting edge trunk firefox 3.6 “Minefield”
. I use 3.5 at  home and 3.6 at work. They are both very stable.
This link will show you how to install from the fta PPA. These are tested and you are less likely to find yourself with a broken browser using this PPA.
http://webupd8.blogspot.com/2009/03/install-firefox-31-beta-3pre-in-ubuntu.html
 

The following link will show you how to install the nightly builds. This is the absolute newest of the new. If you do go this route I would recommend you keep your original firefox install as a back up. I use this PPA and it has been a long time since I have had a daily update break my browser. The 3.5 receives less severe updates, so its updates are more stable.
http://www.ubuntu-inside.me/2009/05/daily-firefox-35-36-repository-for.html
 

SpreadUbuntu - http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/<<BR>>
Is a material repository and resource for local initiatives and LoCo Teams. This site has all kinds of cool Ubuntu stuff, including posters, brochures, stickers, t-shirts, and more. They need volunteers to help with the site. This is a great project. If you are interested there is information on the page about how to get started helping out.

Who is Richard Stallman - http://www.ubuntumagazine.net/?p=2100<<BR>>
A nicely done article about Richard Stallman.

Freedom Bits - Its time for the community to take charge of its brand. Free Software vs. Open Source. http://blogs.fsfe.org/greve/?p=347
 
 
------------------------------------------------------------
This newsletter is maintained by the Ubuntu OKlahoma Local Community. Any story ideas or suggestions should be emailed to duanedesign(at)gmail(dot)com
