{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="width:50%;" style="width: 40px; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topleft: 15px ;-moz-border-radius-bottomleft: 15px; background-color: #dbba75;text-align: left;">
| <style="width: 90%; border: none; -moz-border-radius-topright: 15px;-moz-border-radius-bottomright: 15px; text-align: left; font-size: 1.8em; background-color: #dbba75;" >'''Welcome!'''
|}

This is the Oklahoma State Lo``Co Wiki. This is the site for the Ubunteros of Oklahoma! The Oklahoma Lo``Co is an Ubuntu focused Linux Users Group. Participating in a LoCo team is an exciting, challenging and rewarding experience. When you become active with your LoCo team you have the potential to really help develop Ubuntu and advocate its use in your community. <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DigitalFreedom|Digital Freedom]]</nowiki>, and subsequently GNU/Linux, <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FreeSoftware|Free Software]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FreeFormats|Free Formats]]</nowiki>, has a lot to gain from Local Communities. We encourage everyone to participate, and help spread Ubuntu in the state of Oklahoma.

If you have even the slightest interest in joining, or just helping out, please contact us.
Please feel free to join the <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-ok|Team Mailing list]]</nowiki>, or look around the <nowiki>[[http://oklahoma.ubuntuforums.org|forums]]</nowiki>. There is also usually someone hanging out in the IRC, our channel is #ubuntu-us-ok on irc.freenode.net:8001. We also have regular <nowiki>[[OklahomaTeam-Meeting|meetings]]</nowiki> in the IRC room as well.

=== Goals ===

1. Educate
** Teach the public about Ubuntu, Open Source, and Free Software
1. Promote
** Advocate Ubuntu to groups like schools, libraries, families, businesses, etc.
1. Supply
** Provide supplies and information for getting Ubuntu
1. Support
** Offer local support for getting and using Ubuntu
1. Contribute
** Help produce official documentation, work on bug reports, and develop and package software.

=== Oklahoma LUG's ===
<nowiki>[[http://www.okclugnuts.org|OKC Lugnuts]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://LinuxSig.org|Oklahoma Linux SIG]]</nowiki><<BR>>
<nowiki>[[http://TulsaLug.org|Tulsa LUG]]</nowiki><<BR>>

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
