{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
|}

Meetings are scheduled on an as needed basis. Team meetings are organized for members to discuss plans, ideas, goals, projects, funding, concerns, etc. regarding the Ubuntu community

=== When & Where ===

The Oklahoma Team Meetings are open to the public. We welcome any and all visitors.
Meetings take place in #ubuntu-us-ok on <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|FreeNode]]</nowiki>.

=== Agenda ===

Feel free to add anything you think needs to be discussed, or any ideas you might have for the group.

Here are a few items that are currently being discussed.<<BR>>
{*} Gaining Approved Status <<BR>>
<<BR>>
{*} Member Information Added to Wiki <<BR>>
<<BR>>
{*} We need to get new members into the group. Right now we only have a couple of people who are what I would consider active. This makes it hard to get any projects accomplished. We need to come up with a flyer/poster to interest Ubuntu users in Oklahoma to join our Loco. <<BR>>
<<BR>>
{*} We need to come up with locations where out Loco promotional flyers/posters will be most effective. Everyone who participates picks two or three locations around there home to hang up the flyers.<<BR>>
<<BR>>
{*} Other Suggestions and Ideas
<<BR>>

=== Logs ===

----
CategoryLoCoTeams
