{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
19:36 < duanedesign> !Todo
19:36 < okloco> duanedesign: Todos for duanedesign: #2: make an outline showing tasks to be completed..., #3: make a flyer/poster to advertise our loco., #4: determine where the flyers/poster should go, #5: Wiki-move old meeting agenda items to project..., and #6: Wiki- update meeting agenda
19:37 < duanedesign> !Todo 3
19:37 < okloco> duanedesign: Active todo for duanedesign: make a flyer/poster to advertise our loco. (Added at 08:59 PM, January 27, 2009)
19:40 < duanedesign> I am proposing a project to get new members into the group. Right now we only have a couple of people who are what I would consider active. This makes it hard to get any projects accomplished. We need to come up with a flyer/poster to interest Ubuntu users in Oklahoma to join our Loco.
19:42 < duanedesign> !Todo 4
19:42 < okloco> duanedesign: Active todo for duanedesign: determine where the flyers/poster should go (Added at 08:59 PM, January 27, 2009)
19:47 < duanedesign> We need to come up with locations where these flyers/posters will be most effective. Everyone who participates picks two or three locations around there home to hang up the flyers.
19:58 < duanedesign> If anyone wants to help with this please let me know.

</pre>
