{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
START MEETING
Oct 14 15:03:09 <Palintheus>	well, shall we begin?
Oct 14 15:03:17 <kim_>	Switched a friend to Kubuntu last week. He seems to like it.
Oct 14 15:03:39 <Mazur_>	oh, have i stumbled into a meeting i was unaware about?
Oct 14 15:03:44 <Noah0504>	haha
Oct 14 15:03:49 <Mazur_>	cause i didn't check my email today?
Oct 14 15:03:50 <Noah0504>	Mazur_, What are the odds?
Oct 14 15:03:56 <Noah0504>	:)
Oct 14 15:03:56 <kim_>	stuff happens. LOL
Oct 14 15:04:03 <Mazur_>	punch and pie?
Oct 14 15:05:12 <Palintheus>	I think it would be best to at least start with Name, Location, and if you want a blurb about yourself.....any objections?
Oct 14 15:05:25 <Noah0504>	That's fine.
Oct 14 15:05:39 <Palintheus>	I guess I'll start
Oct 14 15:06:18 <Palintheus>	My name is Trey, I live in Norman, and have been using Ubuntu for about a year and a half, just now getting past just using it
Oct 14 15:06:34 <Noah0504>	I go next!
Oct 14 15:07:38 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Palintheus
Oct 14 15:07:38 *	Palintheus has changed the topic to: Team Meeting: Current Topic: Introductions
Oct 14 15:07:38 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from Palintheus
Oct 14 15:07:46 <Noah0504>	I'm Noah.  I'm your friendly Lawton neighbor...  I've been using Ubuntu since Hoary, but I've been using exclusively since Dapper.  The fan is dead on my main notebook, so I'm doing some shopping (Suggestions welcome).
Oct 14 15:08:16 <jamesstansell>	I'm James Stansell, Broken Arrow (Tulsa Area), severely time-challenged these days
Oct 14 15:08:21 *	billie0w (n=billie0w@70.168.233.132) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:08:36 <billie0w>	hello
Oct 14 15:09:20 <kim_>	I'm Kim, I live in Ardmore and still dual booting with Feisty and xp.
Oct 14 15:09:21 <Palintheus>	billie0w: hello, we are currently introducing ourselves, Name, Location, and if you want a blurb about yourself
Oct 14 15:09:24 <billie0w>	awful quiet for a "meeting"
Oct 14 15:10:16 <Palintheus>	Mazur_ levarnu billie0w, who's next
Oct 14 15:10:18 <billie0w>	Billie Walsh, South Logan County about halfway between Edmond and Guthrie
Oct 14 15:10:25 <Mazur_>	I answer to Mazur, I'm a student in Norman. I have been using Feisty for about 72 hours and I love the hell out of it. Everything about Linux is still new and exciting to me.
Oct 14 15:11:21 <levarnu>	James, in Edmond. Been living on linux for ages...Ubuntu since Dapper.
Oct 14 15:11:47 <Palintheus>	ok, good
Oct 14 15:11:51 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Palintheus
Oct 14 15:11:51 *	Palintheus has changed the topic to: Saturday Sale OKC/Tulsa
Oct 14 15:11:52 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from Palintheus
Oct 14 15:12:04 <Noah0504>	Isn't someone else from Lawton?
Oct 14 15:12:51 <Mazur_>	I'm not!
Oct 14 15:12:56 <Mazur_>	what is saturday sale?>
Oct 14 15:13:08 <Palintheus>	OK, several times the Saturday Sales have been mentioned, and romey(not present) has said we could get a free booth, all we need is for him to get it set up and then people to volunteer some time on a saturday
Oct 14 15:13:26 <Palintheus>	http://www.saturdaysale.com/
Oct 14 15:13:36 <Mazur_>	what is it?
Oct 14 15:14:20 <Palintheus>	from the site: SaturdaySale is a monthly computer sale with a target audience of wholesalers and consumers alike. 
Oct 14 15:14:50 <Noah0504>	I see, I see...
Oct 14 15:14:52 <Mazur_>	oh, i've heard of that
Oct 14 15:15:33 <Palintheus>	mainly what I think we should do now is get some volunteers that would be willing to show off their computers and wouldn't mind people using it to see what it is, and be willing to explain Ubuntu and convince them to take a CD and try it
Oct 14 15:16:15 <Mazur_>	this happens every saturday?
Oct 14 15:16:23 <Palintheus>	jamesstansell: is there one in Tulsa, I wasn't sure
Oct 14 15:16:45 <jamesstansell>	yes, I believe there still is, but I'm not sure of the details
Oct 14 15:16:47 <Palintheus>	Mazur_: 4th saturday of every moneth
Oct 14 15:16:51 <Palintheus>	*month
Oct 14 15:16:54 <kim_>	I've got a couple of machines that I could bring.
Oct 14 15:17:09 <kim_>	and some CD's
Oct 14 15:18:07 <Palintheus>	I think it would be a good idea, if someone has a 5+ yr old machine and a newer one to show the scale-ability of Ubuntu, and unfortunately we would have to burn CDs because it is like pulling teeth to get them from Canonical
Oct 14 15:18:28 *	Revantine (n=40d902d0@216.revantine.com) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:18:34 <Revantine>	Sorry I'm late
Oct 14 15:18:45 <Palintheus>	jamesstansell: I know your time pressed, but you think you may be able to make one every now and then if we could get a free booth/
Oct 14 15:18:50 <Palintheus>	Revantine: np
Oct 14 15:19:17 *	Revantine (n=40d902d0@216.revantine.com) has left #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:19:18 <jamesstansell>	I'm told there's one next weekend in tulsa
Oct 14 15:19:35 *	Revantine (i=revantin@208.revantine.com) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:19:53 >jamesstansell<	I see your in #tulsalug , you want to see if we could coordinate with them?
Oct 14 15:20:11 <Revantine>	no menus anymore in xchat?
Oct 14 15:20:15 *	Revantine scratches his head
Oct 14 15:20:19 <jamesstansell>	I wish I could make it to them, but chances are very slim for me these days
Oct 14 15:20:32 <Palintheus>	Revantine: currently we are discussing getting booths set up for the Saturday Sale
Oct 14 15:21:35 <Palintheus>	I think our best bet in Tulsa would be to coordinate with the LUG up there since we do not have much presence up there and James is time pressed
Oct 14 15:22:03 <Palintheus>	I also think there is a user group in the OKC area we could work with, that could be our best bet since we are still trying to get established
Oct 14 15:22:20 <Revantine>	There is a LUG in the PC Users Group
Oct 14 15:22:34 <Revantine>	There is also a Unix group I believe (if it still exists)
Oct 14 15:23:01 <billie0w>	I was looking at the linux lug page yesterday and they seem to still be active
Oct 14 15:23:14 <jamesstansell>	this is the link for the tulsa show: http://www.computershowok.com/
Oct 14 15:23:16 <billie0w>	can't say the same for the OKPCUG
Oct 14 15:23:35 <Palintheus>	We have tried to email Linux SIG, in OKC several times with no response
Oct 14 15:23:43 <billie0w>	That's the OkC Linux lug
Oct 14 15:23:57 <Revantine>	billie, has the PC UG dwindled? I only visited the L SIG once
Oct 14 15:24:25 <billie0w>	their website is now an advertised search page
Oct 14 15:24:37 <Revantine>	ouch
Oct 14 15:25:31 <Palintheus>	Ive got a laptop I would be willing to bring and kim_ you said you had a machine....anyone else. We can't do much more until we get romey to set up the free booth he was offered
Oct 14 15:26:18 <kim_>	Yes, it's a PIII @ about 500MHZ is that old enough
Oct 14 15:26:28 <Palintheus>	I think so
Oct 14 15:26:39 <Revantine>	What quantity of CDs can we get from shipit?
Oct 14 15:26:48 <kim_>	None of my stuff is less that 4 yrs old
Oct 14 15:26:52 <Palintheus>	I recently tried for 25 and was denied
Oct 14 15:26:59 <billie0w>	I've got a laptop but it looks like I would need power or a new battery
Oct 14 15:27:08 <kim_>	Last I got was 10 but it took weeks
Oct 14 15:27:10 <Mazur_>	and a donation jar for linux believers who pass by who want to help the cause
Oct 14 15:27:29 <jamesstansell>	I don't think we can count on more than individual orders from shipit, especially not before we're officially recognized
Oct 14 15:27:31 <Palintheus>	The biggest issue with getting CD's is that our LoCo is not and approved status
Oct 14 15:28:39 <Palintheus>	once we are approved I think we can get several hundred, as well as some t-shirts, and some other things
Oct 14 15:28:42 <Noah0504>	Yeah, it's hard.  And we really need to make sure we put the CDs to use.  Not just order them and have them sit.
Oct 14 15:28:44 <billie0w>	OkC LUG is http://linuxsig.org/
Oct 14 15:28:45 <kim_>	I'll look tonight and see what I have here. Can always burn more
Oct 14 15:29:12 <Mazur_>	why would we order feisty cd's?
Oct 14 15:29:14 <Palintheus>	Revantine: do you remember who said they could get some CD's cheap at panera bread?
Oct 14 15:29:20 <Mazur_>	isn't gusty about to come out?
Oct 14 15:29:23 <billie0w>	and it looks like their last activity was the Saturday Sale on 7/23
Oct 14 15:29:24 <Palintheus>	Mazur_: they are taking orders for Gutsy right now
Oct 14 15:29:33 <Mazur_>	gotcha. i'm a noob.
Oct 14 15:29:41 <Palintheus>	but it takes 6-8 weeks
Oct 14 15:29:43 <Revantine>	Palintheus, Mike harrall
Oct 14 15:30:35 <Palintheus>	Revantine: do you talk to him regularly?
Oct 14 15:30:49 <Palintheus>	or any?
Oct 14 15:30:53 <Revantine>	Palintheus, he chagned departments and I haven't talked to him since early in Sept
Oct 14 15:30:58 <Palintheus>	ah
Oct 14 15:31:11 <Revantine>	He works from home when he isn't traveling. He may still be in training
Oct 14 15:31:20 <Palintheus>	gotcha
Oct 14 15:32:07 <Revantine>	His new position was something like 80-90% travel
Oct 14 15:32:35 <Noah0504>	That's crazy traveling...
Oct 14 15:32:55 <Palintheus>	Well, the way it looks is that we wouldn't be able to get a booth organized until next month, and then we start getting in the holidays
Oct 14 15:33:34 <kim_>	Are you talking Nov 24th?
Oct 14 15:33:56 <Palintheus>	I don't travel around the holidays, and would more than likely be able to make the Nov one, anyone else?
Oct 14 15:34:37 <Noah0504>	I might be able to make it up there.  I can't say for sure though.
Oct 14 15:34:52 <kim_>	I'm in. More time to prepare and plan also.
Oct 14 15:35:40 <Palintheus>	OK well I will email romey and see if he can set it up, and I think 2 is the minimum that should run one, but its a good start
Oct 14 15:36:28 <Palintheus>	I think I can rummage about 30-50 CDs, maybe more
Oct 14 15:36:29 <kim_>	?
Oct 14 15:36:31 *	factor (n=factor@ip68-12-46-197.ok.ok.cox.net) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:36:50 <Revantine>	Welcome factor
Oct 14 15:37:09 <factor>	lo
Oct 14 15:37:27 <jamesstansell>	factor is from the tulsa lug
Oct 14 15:38:00 <jamesstansell>	(he's working on the new website)
Oct 14 15:38:04 <kim_>	Welcome Factor
Oct 14 15:38:33 <billie0w>	you said something about "not being recognized"
Oct 14 15:38:43 <billie0w>	what does it take to get recognized?
Oct 14 15:38:53 <Palintheus>	OK so are we good on the Saturday Sale? Kim and I have volunteered and a maybe from Noah, I will email romey to get it set up
Oct 14 15:39:01 <Palintheus>	billie0w: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
Oct 14 15:39:51 <Noah0504>	Yeah, it just depends if something comes up.  I'll know for sure as the date becomes closer.
Oct 14 15:39:59 <Palintheus>	sure thing
Oct 14 15:40:15 <kim_>	Sounds good.
Oct 14 15:40:57 <Palintheus>	ok
Oct 14 15:41:10 *	peanutb (n=paulb@ubuntu/member/peanutb) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:41:26 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Palintheus
Oct 14 15:41:26 *	Palintheus has changed the topic to: TEAM MEETING: Current Topic: Installfest
Oct 14 15:41:26 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from Palintheus
Oct 14 15:42:03 <levarnu>	I think I can get 100 printed...15bucks gets 100 printable disks...have a duplicator at the office
Oct 14 15:42:43 <kim_>	That would be much better than a blank faced CD
Oct 14 15:42:59 <Palintheus>	OK, I think we should try to work on getting a regular place to have installfests, this would help spread ubuntu, and could get us a good relationship with a University, etc. 
Oct 14 15:43:09 *	peanutb remembers burning 100 cds by hand
Oct 14 15:43:09 <jamesstansell>	I think my office also has a duplicator - I'll have to ask if there's a policy about using it for "side" projects
Oct 14 15:43:40 <Palintheus>	oh, speaking of money, I have the case badges, still have to get those out
Oct 14 15:43:56 <factor>	Badges.
Oct 14 15:43:57 *	peanutb wants one
Oct 14 15:44:04 <factor>	wed ont need no stinkin badges..
Oct 14 15:44:07 <factor>	:D
Oct 14 15:44:17 <kim_>	I've got 2 or 3 left.
Oct 14 15:44:43 <Palintheus>	for those that didn't know, we got 150 of these
Oct 14 15:44:44 <Palintheus>	https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MassachusettsTeam/Projects/AluminiumCaseBadges
Oct 14 15:45:01 <kim_>	We talking different badges?
Oct 14 15:45:04 *	KD5MWB (n=doug@dpc6744115095.direcpc.com) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:45:51 <Revantine>	a ham?
Oct 14 15:45:55 <Revantine>	kb5zwc
Oct 14 15:46:04 <KD5MWB>	yap sure am
Oct 14 15:46:26 <billie0w>	tornado watch just to our west issued
Oct 14 15:46:38 <billie0w>	me to - KA5LSU
Oct 14 15:47:08 <KD5MWB>	yap here it on the 147.045 repeter stome chasers.
Oct 14 15:47:16 <Palintheus>	anyone have any thoughts on the Installfest idea or should we move on and try to plan that at a later time?
Oct 14 15:47:49 <kim_>	Different badges for sure! I'm interested in a couple at least. Send details and I'll send funds.
Oct 14 15:48:35 <Palintheus>	kim_: no need on the funds, will email you about getting you some
Oct 14 15:49:23 <factor>	KD5MWB: Direcpc you using sat.
Oct 14 15:49:35 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Palintheus
Oct 14 15:49:35 *	Palintheus has changed the topic to: TEAM MEETING: Current Topic: Gaining Approved Status    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OklahomaTeam/Meeting
Oct 14 15:49:35 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from Palintheus
Oct 14 15:49:39 <kim_>	Cool! Seems that we need to get the booth first and then iron out the details
Oct 14 15:49:39 <jamesstansell>	on the installfest - I think setting up a consistent location sounds like a good idea
Oct 14 15:50:05 <Noah0504>	So, I guess I'm now under a tornado watch...
Oct 14 15:50:06 <Noah0504>	haha
Oct 14 15:50:18 <KD5MWB>	yap   all can get out in the county.
Oct 14 15:51:05 <kim_>	That "could" be hard to do. (Installfest location) since we are so spread out.
Oct 14 15:51:18 <Palintheus>	right
Oct 14 15:51:33 <kim_>	Regional locations?
Oct 14 15:51:39 <jamesstansell>	:) locations, hopefully, eventually
Oct 14 15:51:50 <billie0w>	how about at a Saturday Sale
Oct 14 15:52:02 <billie0w>	it looks like the LUG has done that
Oct 14 15:53:08 <Palintheus>	do people bring their machines to sat. sales? also it would tie them up for a while at our booth, while not bad for us, they may get impatient
Oct 14 15:53:53 <kim_>	On a different note, I have extensive web design skills and would be happy to help with any thing needed in those areas.
Oct 14 15:54:05 *	mazur (n=mazur@ip68-97-16-86.ok.ok.cox.net) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 15:54:16 <Palintheus>	that would be great, our site (ubuntuoklahoma.org) is in need of help
Oct 14 15:54:32 <Palintheus>	romey started it, but has been overcome with class and has no time
Oct 14 15:54:36 *	Mazur_ has quit ("ChatZilla 0.9.78.1 [Firefox 2.0.0.7/2007091417]")
Oct 14 15:54:46 <kim_>	Let me know.
Oct 14 15:55:25 <kim_>	portfolio can be sent
Oct 14 15:55:30 <Palintheus>	I really like this LoCo's site, and the theme is on the ubuntu wiki somewhere http://laubuntu.axxium.us/
Oct 14 15:56:45 <factor>	I have been working on mine trying to get all the module solid. tulsa linux users group.  http://www.userspace.org
Oct 14 15:57:13 <Palintheus>	OK, well it looks like setting up 2 events spreads us a little to thin, we can focus on the booth for now and shelf the installfest for later, we could always do installs at the sat sale, if we make ourselves regulars there people could come back with machine in hand for a drop off install
Oct 14 15:57:36 <factor>	I am doing the tulsa computer show
Oct 14 15:57:40 <factor>	next sat.
Oct 14 15:58:16 <Palintheus>	factor: we would love to have you in the Ubuntu-OK group, we don't have much presence in the Tulsa area yet
Oct 14 15:58:30 <kim_>	Interesting green penguins.
Oct 14 15:58:46 <jamesstansell>	factor - do you know if you'll have any ubuntu CD's on Sat?
Oct 14 15:58:53 <factor>	I have been a debian users for years which is what ubunto is based off of , we supoprt all the distros though
Oct 14 15:59:08 <factor>	I will have my computer with the isos
Oct 14 15:59:17 <factor>	yes ubuntu will be on the line up
Oct 14 15:59:44 *	CosmicPizza (n=tom@ASte-Genev-Bois-151-1-3-103.w82-121.abo.wanadoo.fr) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 16:01:29 <kim_>	Nature and the wife call me away. Looking forward to going forward with these ideas.
Oct 14 16:01:46 *	kim_ has quit (Remote closed the connection)
Oct 14 16:02:34 <Palintheus>	OK well, I think one thing we should really focus on is getting approved, it really doesn't take much and would help us get CD's and support from Canonical
Oct 14 16:02:56 <jamesstansell>	I also have to leave - great to have so many at once all together
Oct 14 16:03:00 <Palintheus>	I think one team was able to get a nice vinyl banner from them once they were approved
Oct 14 16:03:29 <factor>	see ya js
Oct 14 16:03:31 *	jamesstansell has quit ("Ex-Chat")
Oct 14 16:04:27 <Palintheus>	To get approved, we just have to show regular activity on either the ML, forums, or IRC channel, get some events under our belt and have several active members
Oct 14 16:05:08 <Palintheus>	here is the link if you missed it https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved
Oct 14 16:05:26 <CosmicPizza>	Hi there
Oct 14 16:05:34 <Palintheus>	hello CosmicPizza 
Oct 14 16:06:26 <Palintheus>	any input on getting approved?
Oct 14 16:06:38 *	KD5MWB has quit ("Leaving")
Oct 14 16:07:09 *	KD5MWB (n=doug@dpc6744115095.direcpc.com) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 16:09:24 <Palintheus>	ok, well I think the only other thing I had was getting some more of the members to add their info to the table on the Wiki, this will help getting approved, it shows we have active members, and if everyone would put their IRC/IM nick it would make contact easier
Oct 14 16:10:10 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Palintheus
Oct 14 16:10:10 *	Palintheus has changed the topic to: TEAM MEETING: Current Topic: Member Information Added to Wiki    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OklahomaTeam/Meeting
Oct 14 16:10:10 *	ChanServ removes channel operator status from Palintheus
Oct 14 16:12:54 <Revantine>	Palintheus, is the topic link the member info page?
Oct 14 16:13:25 <Palintheus>	its to the Meeting Agenda, the member info is at the bottom of the main page wiki.ubuntu.com/OklahomaTeam
Oct 14 16:15:47 *	kim_ (n=kim@69.92.1.62) has joined #ubuntu-oklahoma
Oct 14 16:16:52 <Palintheus>	Also something kind of related, it would help organize these events if a few people would volunteer to help with specific items, they are listed on the sub pages
Oct 14 16:19:57 <Palintheus>	well understandably the interest is shifting, I think it would be good to call this meeting done and have another in 2 wks(10/28), any objections?
Oct 14 16:20:45 <kim_>	I missed some things while gone but have the gist of what we need to do.
Oct 14 16:21:19 <Palintheus>	I will post the log of the meeting to the wiki, so those of you that missed some can read back on the log
Oct 14 16:21:36 <kim_>	excellent
</pre>
