{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== Objectives ===

This team focuses on the organization of team activities and events for the OklahomaTeam. These activities include meetings and current projects

If you have any questions, contact a team member.

=== ToDo List ===

{*} Organize an installfest<<BR>>
{*} Organize a booth at at <nowiki>[[http://saturdaysale.com|Saturday Sale]]</nowiki><<BR>>
{*} Create an informative packet any member can use to give a talk about Linux/Ubuntu<<BR>>
{*} Increase the number of members participating in Bug Triage.<<BR>>

=== Possibilities List ===

{*} Do a fundraiser asking people to give 5 or 10 dollars and use the money to buy an OLPC computer. Give that computer to an underprivelaged youth in Oklahoma. Use the legitimacy created by the publicity of the project to solicite more substantial donations and increase our goal incrementally. For instance one laptop the first time, then two, then three,ect. <<BR>>

Feel free to add any ideas.

=== Members ===

If you would like to be a part of the Events Team, simply add your name below.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="text:center">Name
| Position
| IRC Handle
|-
| Duane Hinnen
| research possible activities
| duanedesign
|-
| Steve Roemen
| Saturday sale organizer
| romey
|}
----
CatagorySubTeam
