{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''working draft for Ubuntu doc training branch''
== Introduction ==
This wiki page is intended to get you started with the Ubuntu Doc students DocBook training program. You will learn to use Bazaar, the CVS system used by the doc team, and you will learn how to edit, validate documents, prepare and submit patches, as well as recieve some insight into technical reviewing and the docbook structure itself.
== Install Bazaar ==
* In order to get started with the training program you need to install Bazaar: <code> sudo apt-get install bzr</code>. 
** A brief getting started guide for Bazaar is located <nowiki>[[http://doc.bazaar-vcs.org/latest/en/mini-tutorial/index.html | here]]</nowiki>, and is helpful for getting configured.
=== Download the training branch ===
* Open a terminal and download the Training branch for document students: <code>bzr branch lp:~charles.davis/ubuntu-doc/documentor-training</code>
This will create a folder in your home directory named documentor-training. If you would rather have this branch stored elsewhere on your computer cd to your preferred target directory before running the command.
== Start the exercises ==
Navigate to your documentor-training directory and open the file index.xml in Yelp. You can accomplish this using nautilus or by the command line. Keep Yelp open and follow the directions in your help browser.
