{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Do not consider myself as old just was an available moniker. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| https://launchpad.net/~oldfred
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| 2048R/D2D5731B
|-
| '''Ubuntu Forums''':
| http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=852711
|-
| '''Email''':
| fpalmer19@comcast.net
|}

=== About Me ===

Started with computers in a math class learning Assembler & Fortran with IBM 3094 or Illiac II, in the last year before they had a CS Department. First PC was a GBC System 12 (Northstar) S-100 dual floppy.

Started with Linux in late 1990's with Redhat 5 & 7. Never really used either as work was Windows and really did not have time to tinker. 

Retired in June, 2006 & installed Ubuntu in December 2006 when I built a new computer. Had planned on leaving Window XP and converted to Firefox, Thunderbird & OpenOffice in Windows, so my wife and I would not have a huge learning curve converting operating systems. Installed Ubuntu and loved it, my wife still had some issues so we dual booted. Promised to be 100% Ubuntu for quite a while, only 95% so far.

Enjoy golf, running & being a snowbird. (Or one who does not stay in Chicago when it snows.)

=== Team Memberships ===

{*} ubuntuforums.org Staff - Joined on 2011-09-10

=== Contributions to the Ubuntu Community ===

Joined Ubuntu Forums June 9th, 2009 and have been active in trying to help users get started. Primarily working on boot issues in Installation & Upgrades, General Help or Absolute Beginner Talk. Learned a lot about booting and grub/grub2 from many other users & hope some have learned from me.
Enjoy solving issues with dual/multiboot with multiple copies of Ubuntu or other systems. Resolved many grub & grub2 issues for users and hope to be able to continue helping others and now keeping forums as a place to go to for solutions.
