{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== About Me ==

Hello, and thanks for visiting!

My name's Ann Knight, I am married and have two adult children. I live in Cheyenne, WY, the "Magic City of the Plains" in the wild west of the US. My husband is retired from the US Navy; together we enjoy spending time with our four, count 'em, four pets; two cats and two dogs (numbers subject to change!) I also enjoy indoor gardening--never met a houseplant I didn't like--and collecting vintage and antique sewing machines. When I'm not occupied with those things, you might find me at my computer, or fiddling with older electronics such as Sansui stereo receivers, turntables, and the like.

The moniker 'oldos2er' is meant to represent 'Old OS/2'er,' as I was an aficionado of that venerated operating system. I gave up on Microsoft OSes after using Win 3.1 and decided it just wasn't living up to the hype, and I'm glad I did. Unfortunately using OS/2 wasn't viable anymore on a 21st century PC, so I turned to Linux, specifically Ubuntu, and I am very glad I did, not just for the fun of computing, but because of the great community at ubuntuforums.org as well. For about the past three years I've been running Kubuntu, and I really like it, not that I dislike Gnome 2 or 3, but I find KDE "fits" me well. I have briefly run other Linux distros, namely Vector Linux, but always return to (K)Ubuntu. I still check out other distros via LiveCD from time to time.

In March 2013 I installed OpenSuse 12.3 (KDE version, naturally) on an external hard drive, and I'm enjoying using it and learning the mysteries of "zypper" and "Yast." Kubuntu is still my go-to OS though.

== Launchpad ID ==

oldos2er, since Apr 20 2008.

== GPG Key ==

2048R/99719D70

== IRC ==

oldos2er, on irc.freenode.net

== Email ==

lagnappe@gmail.com

== Contributions to the Ubuntu community ==

Currently my contributions are limited to support posts at ubuntuforums.org, where I've been a member for six years now. I try to answer newbies' questions as best I can, but I have learned far more myself than I feel I have contributed up until now. Maybe in the future that balance will begin to tip--but there is so much to learn! Also I have made a tiny contribution answering questions on irc.freenode.net, #ubuntu.

== The Future ==

I plan to remain with (K)Ubuntu into the foreseeable future, learning more, and sharing what I learn.
