{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



* Email:  * WWW: <nowiki>[[http://www.paukstadt.de|Personal Homepage]]</nowiki> (German)

=== About me ===
I live near Stuttgart in Germany and work as an <nowiki>[[http://www.millenux.com/|IT Consultant]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
I have a degree in <nowiki>[[http://www.mi.uni-heidelberg.de/|Medical Informatics]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>
I am <nowiki>[[http://hochzeit.paukstadt.de|married]]</nowiki> since 2005.

I started using Linux in 1995 using "SuSE April 1995". After that I used Unifix and switched to RedHat then. Today I use Fedora and Ubuntu on several Workstations at home and at work.

I did the first distribution port for 64 Bit Linux on zSeries based on RedHat 7.x in 2001 for SAP Application Server Pilot. This distribution was named ThinkBlue/64 and we stopped supporting it when SLES 8 on zSeries was certified by SAP.

I did several projects and studies on Desktop Linux, server consolidation on zSeries or mainframe migration.

=== zUbuntu ===

My main project is <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/zubuntu/|zUbuntu]]</nowiki>, the zSeries port of Ubuntu Server Edition.

Since Debian only has a 31 bit port (s390) with a few 64 bit packages (-s390x) we decided to have zUbuntu based on 64 Bit (s390x) and add some compat libraries for 31 bit (-s390).

----
CategoryHomepage
