{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Launchpad Profile:'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~omar-elmohandes90|omar-elmohandes90]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''GPG Key'''
| A310EF3C
|-
| '''IRC''':
| omar-elmohandes on network irc.freenode.net
|-
| '''Email''':
| omar.elmohandes90@gmail.com
|-
| '''Linux User'''
| <nowiki>[[http://counter.li.org|#529139]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Ubuntu User'''
| {{http://ubuntucounter.geekosophical.net/img/ubuntu-user2.php?user=33024}}
|}

=== About Me ===
My name is Omar. I am studying Computer Science "Faculty of Computers and Information - Cairo University" . 
I am in love with Algorithms and Data Structures , and I am a contestant in some online judges like <nowiki>[[http://www.topcoder.com/tc?module=MemberProfile&cr=22842388 | Topcoder]]</nowiki>. I adore open source communities like Ubuntu.My favorite language is C++ and finally I am a GEEK of coding!.

  
=== My Master ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/starcraft.man|starcraftman]]</nowiki> is my master. I'll try to do my best to follow his path. I really liked his progress and his skills, so I'll always work hardly to be like him someday (or maybe better :D). 

=== Team Memberships ===
{*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~speechcontrolteam | Speech Control Team]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>
{*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~speechcontrol-devel | SpeechControl Developers]]</nowiki>. <<BR>>
{*} <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~speechcontrol-devel | ProCogX]]</nowiki> : Game Engine developed by <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Daniel0108 | Daniel0108]]</nowiki>.<<BR>>

=== My Goals From The Short To The Long Term ===

** Become a member in Ubuntu-development focus group.
** Earn the Ubuntu Membership.
** Make Ubuntu the first OS in my college.

=== My Favorite Quote(s) ===

*** '''" Don't Give The Same Input And Expect A Different Output "''' .

=== IRC Channels ===

I can be found in these channels:<<BR>>
** #ubuntu-beginners-team<<BR>>
** #speechcontrol<<BR>>

=== Testimonials ===
Nothing yet. =)
