{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad entry''': https://features.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/share-this-network-connection
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===
Allow users to share an internet connection by simply clicking a check box.  

=== Rationale ===
Currently setting up Internet Connection Sharing can be quite troublesome for the average/normal user. All necessary software to enable this is already developed and deployed, thus implementation seems/is simple and would be a really great feature for future Ubuntu releases.

=== Use cases ===

* Phil and Winifred are both sitting on the sofa with their laptops.  Phil has a wireless connection to the internet but Winifred only has an ethernet port and doesn't have a cable long enough to reach the router.  They use a hub or a crossover cable to connect their 100BaseT ports together.  Phil opens up the Network Manager and clicks "Share this connection" for his WiFi port.  Winifred can now surf happily.
* John is living overseas and have just a cheap DSL modem without DHCP and without a hub. His desktop computer has two ethernet ports and friends from his native place sometimes go visit him with a Windows Laptop. He has a network cable to plug the laptop onto the desktop. He enables "Share this connection" and his friend can surf happily.

=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

For those with access to Apple machines running OSX:  Go to System Preferences. Click on Sharing.  Select the Internet tab and notice the one click sharing capability.  Pretty nice.  Windows also has this same "one click connection sharing", but it's a bit harder to find. We can do the same for Ubuntu.

Functionally, this would set up IP masquerading on the outside port and start a DHCP server on the inside network ports, if necessary.

=== Implementation ===

Maybe integrate Firestarter (http://www.fs-security.com/) with the Network Manager.  It could also be done with a fairly simple iptables script.

=== Code ===

=== Data preservation and migration ===

=== Unresolved issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

----
CategorySpec
