{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== General Information ==

<nowiki>[[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/646|"Oneiric Ocelot"]]</nowiki> is the code name for Ubuntu 11.10, released on 13 October 2011.  See the <nowiki>[[OneiricReleaseSchedule|Oneiric release schedule]]</nowiki>.

See also <nowiki>[[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-o/|the Ubuntu Developer Summit for Oneiric]]</nowiki>, which took place from May 9th to 13th in Budapest, Hungary.

If you want to see what the developers have cooking for Oneiric, feel free to take a look through the <nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric|Oneiric Ocelot blueprint page]]</nowiki> or the <nowiki>[[TechnicalOverview|Oneiric Ocelot Technical Overview]]</nowiki>.

For more information on the final Ubuntu 11.10 release:
** <nowiki>[[ReleaseNotes|Oneiric Release Notes]]</nowiki>
** instructions for <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OneiricUpgrades|upgrading to Oneiric]]</nowiki>
** Ubuntu 11.10 release announcement <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2011-October/000153.html|October 13, 2011]]</nowiki>

== Bugs in Oneiric ==

It should come as no surprise that the releases of Oneiric Ocelot will contain bugs. Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help fix bugs and improve future releases. Please report bugs per the instructions on ReportingBugs.

If you want to help out with bugs, the <nowiki>[[BugSquad|Ubuntu Bug Squad]]</nowiki> is always looking for help.

== More Information ==

The next release after Oneiric is codenamed <nowiki>[[PrecisePangolin|"Precise Pangolin"]]</nowiki>; the <nowiki>[[Releases]]</nowiki> page contains a list of all Ubuntu releases.

You can find out more about Ubuntu on the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu website]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu wiki]]</nowiki>.

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, please take a look at the Ubuntu <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate|Get Involved]]</nowiki> page.

To have future Ubuntu development announcements emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-devel-announce|ubuntu-devel-announce]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

To have future Ubuntu package updates emailed to you, please go to the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/oneiric-changes|oneiric-changes]]</nowiki> page and subscribe with your email address.

More Kubuntu information can also be found at <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Oneiric|Kubuntuguide]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryMarketing
