{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==
* '''Add your feedback like this w/o the bold, and then add @``SIG@ at the end of your line - trust us, it doesn't show up in the preview, only when you save your comment.'''
* '''Any serious issue should be still <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug|submitted as a bug]]</nowiki>!'''

== Feedback ==
* Add your comments here! -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:claydoh]]</nowiki>  * I like that I can connect to my wireless router at 150k now with 11.10, but I don't think KMail2 is ready to be shipped in Kubuntu yet. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:launchpad-mfraz]]</nowiki>  * Rekonq is a joke , bad gmail experience , no video talks , and so on. Installing firefox by default would be better. Dolphin has bad settings for desktop, dragonplayer is another joke, vlc by default would be perfect. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nowardev]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>
** Rekonq's gmail experience is only odd due to their nonstandard checkbox size - file a bug. Video is important - file a bug.
   Firefox requires a bunch of stuff that would make the install spill over the CD size limit by a ton.
   Bad settings? explain - also file a bug.
   "Joke" is not helpful. Perhaps you should suggest features to the dragon devs.
   VLC isn't a bad idea, however you'll get the same thing with the vlc backend and dragon player. 
   Good food for thought though. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lunarcloud]]</nowiki> 