{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

"There is nothing like a dream to create the future." - Victor Hugo

The Ubuntu team is pleased to announce Ubuntu 11.10, code-named
"Oneiric Ocelot". 11.10 continues Ubuntu's proud tradition of
integrating the latest and greatest open source technologies 
into a high-quality, easy-to-use Linux distribution.

For PC users, Ubuntu 11.10 supports laptops, desktops and netbooks 
with a unified look and feel based on an updated version of the 
desktop shell called "Unity", which introduces specialized "Lenses".
Finding and installing software using the Ubuntu Software Centre is 
now easier thanks to improvements in speed, search functionality 
enhancements, and usability improvements. Aside from updates 
on the performance side, it's also more aesthetically appealing.

Ubuntu Server 11.10 has made it much easier to provision, deploy, 
host, manage, and orchestrate enterprise data centre infrastructure
services with the introduction of "Orchestra".  The Juju technical
preview allows service developers to describe the deployment and 
scaling requirements of their applications, in order to simplify 
and enhance the dialogue between developers and operations teams.
For those working on the ARM architecture, a technical preview is 
also provided for the ARM server.

Read more about the new features of Ubuntu 11.10 in the following 
press releases:

   http://www.canonical.com/content/transforming-home-pc-ubuntu-1110 <<BR>>
   http://www.canonical.com/content/client-cloud-ubuntu-1110-sets-pace-business-it <<BR>>
<<BR>>

Standard maintenance updates will be provided for Ubuntu 11.10 for 
18 months, through April 2013.

Thanks to the efforts of the global translation community, Ubuntu 
is now available in 38 languages.  For a list of available languages 
and detailed translation statistics for these and other languages, see:

   http://people.canonical.com/~dpm/stats/ubuntu-11.10-translation-stats.html <<BR>>

Ubuntu 11.10 is the base for the newest 11.10 iterations of Kubuntu,
Xubuntu, Edubuntu, Mythbuntu, Ubuntu Studio, and our newest addition
to this release cycle, Lubuntu!

Kubuntu:       http://kubuntu.org/news/11.10-release  <<BR>>
Xubuntu:       http://xubuntu.org/news/11.10-release  <<BR>>
Edubuntu       http://edubuntu.org/news/11.10-release <<BR>>
Mythbuntu:     http://mythbuntu.org/11.10/release <<BR>>
Ubuntu Studio: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuStudio/11.10release_notes <<BR>>
Lubuntu:       https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Announcement/11.10 <<BR>>

Ubuntu 11.10 is also now available on two new ARM community-supported ports. 
AC100 (Toshiba Tegra 2 Netbook): https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/TEGRA/AC100 <<BR>>
MX5 (Freescale i.MX53 QuickStart): https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/MX5 <<BR>>

'''To get Ubuntu 11.10'''

In order to download Ubuntu 11.10, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download <<BR>>

Users of Ubuntu 11.04 will be offered an automatic upgrade to 11.10
via Update Manager. For further information about upgrading, see:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/upgrade <<BR>>

As always, upgrades to the latest version of Ubuntu are entirely free of
charge.

We recommend that all users read the release notes, which document
caveats, workarounds for known issues, as well as more in-depth notes 
on the release itself. They are available at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes <<BR>>

Find out what's new in this release with a graphical overview:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new
  http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/features

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but
aren't sure, you can try asking in any of the following places:

## ubuntu on irc.freenode.net <<BR>>
  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users <<BR>>
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/  <<BR>>
  http://askubuntu.com/ <<BR>>

'''Help Shape Ubuntu'''

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list 
of ways you can participate at:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

'''About Ubuntu'''

Ubuntu is a full-featured Linux distribution for desktops, laptops,
netbooks and servers, with a fast and easy installation and regular
releases.  A tightly-integrated selection of excellent applications
is included, and an incredible variety of add-on software is just a
few clicks away.

Professional services including support are available from Canonical
and hundreds of other companies around the world.  For more information
about support, visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/support

'''More Information'''

You can learn more about Ubuntu and about this release on our website listed below:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce/

Kate Stewart,
on behalf of the Ubuntu Release Team
 
