{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Basic description of what Thunderbird would act like with an assistant helping with Enigmail.  Remember the initial defaults for ''SOMOSIS'' are theoretically (Class: Security; Level: Beginner); this means only messages including the Security class are displayed, and all of them from Beginner up.

=== Introduction to Enigmail ===

 1. User clicks "Write" and the composer dialog appears.

 1. Message is sent:  (Msgid: 1; Class: Security,Feature; Level: User; Tip: "Privacy:  Encrypt your e-mail"; Buttons: "Yes","No") "You can encrypt and sign your e-mail to keep your messages private and prove that they came from you.  Setting this up takes about 5 minutes.  Would you like to learn about this now?"

 1. Shape is drawn:  (Msgid: 1; Response: 256; Color: Global; Shape: Box) Overtop of the Enigmail menu.  (clicking is like clicking on the assistant; just displays the message, nothing interesting).

==== Yes ====

 1.#4 User clicks yes.

 1. Message is killed: (1).

 1. Message is sent: (Msgid: 2; Class: Security,Feature,Immediate; Level: User; Tip: NULL; Buttons: NULL) "Utilizing Enigmail and OpenPGP standards, Thunderbird is able to encrypt e-mail to users of Outlook with PGP plug-in and other Thunderbird users with Enigmail.  Thunderbird can also safely sign all e-mail to all recipients, mathematically proving that you sent the message and not somebody pretending to be you.

 To start, you must generate or import a PGP key.  To do this, open the OpenPGP Key Managment dialog.  You can do this by clicking on the Enigmail menu and selecting OpenPGP Key Managment."

 1.#7 Shape is drawn:  (Msgid: 2; Response: 256; Color: Global; Shape: Box) Overtop of the Enigmail menu.  (clicking is like clicking on the Enigmail menu).

 1. User follows directions, OpenPGP Key Managment dialog opens.

 1. Message is killed: (2).

 1. Message is sent: (Msgid: 3; Class: Security,Feature,Immediate; Level: User; Tip: NULL; Buttons: "Generate","Import") "If you have previously uploaded a key to a key server, you may import it now; otherwise, you may generate a PGP key now.  If this is your first time using PGP encryption, you should generate a key."

...FIXME:  Generate/Import...

==== No ====
 1.#4 User clicks no.

 1. Message is killed: (1).

At this point, the message will not be displayed again.
