{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Notice - Google services ==
This Notice tells you about the information being processed when you use Google services on Ubuntu. For information about the processing of personal data please see our <nowiki>[[https://www.ubuntu.com/legal/data-privacy|privacy policy]]</nowiki>.

=== What information is being processed? ===
Canonical does not collect personal data from you when you use the Google services. We will use your Google account information (as set out below) only to integrate with your address book and to configure the mail client and calendar. This information is not stored by Canonical nor any third party on its behalf.

We process your information in order to provide the Google services to you on Ubuntu. We do not process your information for any other purpose.

When you add a Google account, Ubuntu Online Accounts receives your email address and an access token which allows us to authenticate with Google.

* '''Mail'''. Ubuntu Online Accounts receives your IMAP settings stored with your GMail account. Individual email clients (for example, <nowiki>[[https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution/PrivacyPolicy|Evolution]]</nowiki>) then can use this to retrieve and modify your messages, labels and folders from Google.

* '''Calendar'''. Ubuntu downloads a list of your calendars and the events stored in those calendars. This can be used by email clients to display and modify those events.

* '''Contacts'''. Ubuntu downloads your contact groups and any contacts stored in those groups. This can be used by email clients to display and modify your contacts.

=== Changes to this Notice ===

This Notice will be reviewed from time to time. If we decide to change this Notice we will post the changes here. However, if we intend to make material changes to the way we use your information we will notify you before doing do. 

=== Contact us ===

We are Canonical Group Limited. Our address is 5th Floor Blue Fin Building, 110 Southwark Street, London, SE1 0SU. You can contact us by post at the above address or by email to <nowiki>[[mailto:legal@canonical.com|legal@canonical.com]]</nowiki> for the attention of “Legal”.

Alternatively you can use the relevant contact us form.
