{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Trusted helper: application access ===

Manual testing is currently the only way to test the application access scenario. 

==== Requirements ====

In order to test the Online Accounts trusted helper one will need to install this test application:
<nowiki>[[attachment:it.mardy.account-tester_0.5_all.click]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[https://github.com/mardy/accounts-tester|source]]</nowiki>). This can be installed like this:
  pkcon install-local --allow-untrusted it.mardy.account-tester_0.5_all.click

Also, make sure that the `signon-apparmor-extension` package is installed.

==== The test ====

Open Online Accounts from the System Settings and create an account of type "Account Tester". Then start the click application. It should list the newly created account, with a red frame around it. The red frame means that the account is not enabled for this application, and that consequently the application should not be able to authenticate with it. Tap on the account to test the authentication: on the "Result" field an error code should appear.

Then, tap on "Request access". You can either grant access to this existing account, or create a new one. Depending on what you choose, when the operation is completed either the existing account should become green, or a new green account should appear. On the phone, note that you might need to swipe from the right border of the phone, in order to refresh the view.

Verify that when you tap on a green account, the "Result" field should show the account password.
