{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== cron-daily scripts run strangely ===
It appears as if a script added to /etc/cron-daily doesn't always make the script automatically run. Anecdotal evidence indicates that in some cases cron needs to be reloaded. Initially the problem was detected on a gutsy-server where a backup script had not run for around six weeks.

This is the sample code we're using:
<pre>
date >> /var/log/date.log
</pre>

=== gutsy-server ===
==== owh report ====
This server was where the original problem occurred. The cron script didn't run for around six weeks, that is, cron.daily ran, but the backup script did not.
# On instruction from #ubuntu-server, installed postfix to at least receive output from cron
# ran sudo invoke.rc cron reload

Cron jobs ran just fine - including the backup.
# Added date script cron job without reloading cron
# Cron job ran just fine.

==== Jeeves_ report ====
From <nowiki>[[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2008/03/14/%23ubuntu-server.txt|IRC]]</nowiki>: (Jeeves_ report extracted from within the log)
<pre>
(15:43:31) owh: Is that a bug or a *feature*?
(15:43:43) Jeeves_: owh: That would be a bug
(15:44:08) Jeeves_: However, I've never seen it before, except for this week
(15:44:14) owh: I'm not even sure how it could even happen.
(15:44:28) owh: I mean run-parts runs every time cron runs.
(15:44:33) Jeeves_: Me neither
(15:45:03) owh: You know, come to think of it, I wonder if in the deeper past I've seen something similar.
(15:53:19) owh: Jeeves_: Do you remember the circumstances in which you had to reload cron?
(15:54:08) Jeeves_: owh: Yes, we copied files in /etc/cron.d/
(15:55:26) owh: Jeeves_: Which version of OS?
(15:56:10) Jeeves_: gutsy
</pre>

=== hardy-server ===
alpha-6 clean install
# Added date script cron job without reloading cron
# Cron job did not run.
# grep daily /var/log/* <pre>
-- no relevant results --
</pre>

=== gutsy-workstation ===
This workstation has been installed from edgy and has been upgraded to feisty then gutsy.
# Installed cron daily job
# No output at expected time - 6:25am
# Output at 7:35am
# grep daily /var/log/* returned <pre>
/var/log/syslog:Mar 15 07:38:20 localhost anacron[16254]: Job `cron.daily' terminated
/var/log/syslog.0:Mar 15 06:25:01 localhost /USR/SBIN/CRON[15300]: (root) CMD (test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily ))
/var/log/syslog.0:Mar 15 07:30:03 localhost anacron[16254]: Will run job `cron.daily' in 5 min.
/var/log/syslog.0:Mar 15 07:35:03 localhost anacron[16254]: Job `cron.daily' started
/var/log/syslog.0:Mar 15 07:35:03 localhost anacron[16306]: Updated timestamp for job `cron.daily' to 2008-03-15
</pre>
 1. This indicates some interaction between anacron and cron
