{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:ooo-splitbuild
* '''Created''': 2009-01-08 by ChrisCheney
* '''Contributors''': ChrisCheney
* '''Packages affected''': openoffice.org, openoffice.org-l10n

=== Summary ===

Use the openoffice.org split build instead of the current monolithic build.

=== Release Note ===

This should have no noticeable user visible effect.

=== Rationale ===

We should switch to the split build to allow individual parts of openoffice.org to be rebuilt more easily for development and also for updating only parts of the program.

=== Use Cases ===

A patch is needed for just a small part of openoffice.org such as writer. This patch could be added without having to rebuild all of openoffice.org.

=== Assumptions ===

The main assumption is that the necessary code changes will be finished in time for Jaunty+1. It may be that the changes don't land in upstream until OOo 3.2.0 which depending on its release schedule could end up being in Jaunty+2.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code Changes ====

This is really a packaging only change so the changes will be related to changes in packaging such as the rules file and files moving into new packages and the requisite conflicts/replaces.

==== Migration ====

This will require examining all files from previous packaging and see where they migrate to with the split build and creating proper conflicts/replaces.

=== Unresolved issues ===

One of the elements still needed to make this work cleanly is to have languages split out into their own module so that they are not spread across all 15 or so source packages in the split build. We are having a meeting with Sun Feb 9-11 about split build issues. I will be packaging the split build in the not clean manner probably as en-us only in the ppa shortly after the 3.1.0 release.

----
CategorySpec
