{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:open-university-ubuntu
* '''Created''': 09-Nov-08
* '''Contributors''': <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu.com/ddrichardson|Dougie Richardson]]</nowiki>
* '''Packages affected''': ouubuntu

=== Summary ===

The Open University does not support Linux. Ubuntu is a popular Linux distribution with the OU and has a large user base, it makes sense to provide support from our community.

=== Release Note ===

All required course software available in a format that can be run under Ubuntu.

=== Rationale ===

This change is proposed because:
* The OU does not support Linux
* A large number of Ubuntu users are Open University Students
* It is affected by Ubuntu Bug #1 - Windows dominance of the software market.

=== Use Cases ===

David is an Ubuntu user who has began a course with the Open University. He has received his course software and has found that he is unable to run it under Ubuntu. He has to now purchase a copy of Windows XP.

Sara has been an Open University student for the last two years but is finding the cost of being a student is increasing. She has heard of a free operating system called Ubuntu and would like to switch from Windows but must have all her current OU software running.

=== Assumptions ===

This specification assumes support from the Open University, which has been requested.

=== Design ===

The design is split into four parts.

==== Packaging ====

Wherever possible, OU software should be available as Ubuntu packages. The team will be responsible for creating, maintaining and supporting these packages.

==== Fork ====

A specialised Ubuntu version should be considered as the projects primary goal.

==== Documentation ====

Documentation applicable to OU Ubuntu users should be maintained and provided by the team.

==== Advocacy and marketing ====

The team should promote the project to other students wherever possible.

=== Implementation ===

This can be implemented by:

==== UI Changes ====

Altering the current interface to simplify daily student tasks and be abstracting the OS wherever possible. The UI should provide a method of providing only that course software that is required.

==== Code Changes ====

Software available as source code can be repackaged.

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===

To be updated after first team meeting.

----
CategorySpec
