{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


ONMS is the combination of the very best open-source network management tools pre-installed on Ubuntu Linux. 
Project on SourceForge.net : https://sourceforge.net/projects/onms/

== Features ==

Summary:  Nediva will discover your network devices and use them to gather all kinds of useful information about your network.  This information can then be viewed through a beautiful web-interface.

* Automated Network Discovery
** Automatically discover network devices and learn how they connect to each other (network topology)*
* Device Management
** Quickly telnet to a switch with just a few clicks
** Make bulk configuration changes to many devices at once
** Archive device configurations and report configuration changes
* Monitoring
** Performance
**** Graph interface usage
**** CPU utilization of network devices
** Availibility
**** Poll network devices
**** Send email or SMS alerts when a device goes down
** Errors
**** Receive and display SNMP Traps from devices
**** Display interface error rates
** Logging
**** Receive and display Syslog messages from devices
* Reporting
** Location of users on the network (DNS-->IP-->MAC-->Switch-->Port)
** Network devices
*** Device name, type, model number, serial number
*** Software version running on the device
** IP addresses
*** See which IP addresses are being used, and which ones are available

Note: NeDi works best with Cisco network devices.  It does support other vendors, but this is currently limited to a small selection of devices.  In the future, NeDi will support the most common network devices from multiple vendors.  You can help NeDi support your equipment by working with the developers.  

== Documentation ==
* Start some documents on this wiki, then convert to PDF when done
* What documentation is needed?
** Perhaps a Nedi user manual can be created, then made available on the main Nedi page

=== How To Make the Nedi Appliance ===

* Create a virtual machine
** Ubuntu 5.10
** Use NAT (simplest to use)
** Disk space = 20.0 GB, leave the checkboxes blank  (What should this amount be?)
** 256 MB memory  (What should this amount be?)

* Install Ubuntu Linux (5.10)
** Default install

* Remove unneeded software packages
** GIMP
** OpenOffice
** Evolution
   
* Install NeDi
** Follow Ubuntu install procedure
** Make sure to use SSL 
***** <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OpenSSL#head-ef90d99537150adb4809a3b7f0e554910ddf84cd|Setting up SSL on Apache2]]</nowiki>
***** Redirect HTTP traffic to HTTPS site
****** sudo apt-get libapache2-mod-rewrite
****** RewriteEngine On
****** RewriteCond %{HTTPS} off
****** RewriteRule (.*) https://%{HTTP_HOST}%{REQUEST_URI}
** Setup syslog.pl and trap.pl, configure to start on bootup.
**** syslog.pl is very simple! As root (since port < 1024), start with -v to check whether you receive messages and If ok, stop it and start it with -D to daemonize.
**** trap.pl is called by snmptrapd. This needs to be specified in /etc/snmp/snmptrapd.conf like this:
          traphandle default /usr/bin/perl /opt/nedi/trap.pl
** Install a TFTP server

=== Network Discovery Suite (Nedi) User Manual ===

* Start manual here, include many screenshots.

== Tasks ==
=== Done ===
* Determine how we will communicate
*** This wiki
*** MSN Messenger in a group chat room
**** Good times to talk are 16:00 - 24:00 CET (which is 8:00 - 16:00 MST)
*** FTP site for file storage
* Determine who is going to be on the team
*** Do you know anyone else who would greatly assist in the creation of this appliance?
***** Remo Rickli
***** Owen Brotherwood
***** Tristan Rhodes
* Choose the distribution it will run on
     Dapper (Ubuntu) will be nice because it is new, has a server install, ;)  (Owen: most secure)
     UPDATE: Dapper will not be ready by the deadline, so it looks like we better use 5.10 (Breezy).
* Choose an official name for the appliance
*** Network Discovery Appliance (This is the most descriptive, also similar to NeDi.)
*** OATMAN - One Appliance To Manage A/All/Any Networks (Tristan is withdrawing this proposed name)
* Should a graphical desktop be installed, or will this be a headless server? (Owen: headless with ssh www-server and X)
*** UPDATE: Tristan wants to use the default Ubuntu install, minus some apps.  This allows non-Linux people to admin the box.
***** More points are given to smaller appliances
***** If there is no GUI desktop, how will users change the IP settings, install security updates, restart the box, restart services, etc.
***** Perhaps we should install Webmin? (Owen: yes most secure all root logged, no root needed with webmin)
***** Can security updates be automated with cron?  Answer: Yes! AutomaticSecurityUpdates  (Owen: is this production secure)
****** UPDATE: Not necessary now that users have the GUI
* Get SSL working with NeDI using a self-signed certificate (See here: <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OpenSSL#head-ef90d99537150adb4809a3b7f0e554910ddf84cd|OpenSSL]]</nowiki> )
* Owen addition for consideration
*** Use Nedi as much as possible as a good base to put Open Source software around, either directly or because Nedi DB can be used to generate configuration files
*** Give Nedi a home so that it has a working distro that people can try Nedi from without reading to much up about "How To" and more on now to use Nedi correctly, securly and productivly  
* REMEMBER: Development is progressing slowly, so we should only include the basics so that we can complete in time. Focus on Nedi
* What other applications should we include in this appliance?
*** Netflow collector and analyzer (nfdump/nfsen) ???
*** Syslog (syslog-ng, php-syslog-ng) (Nedi ?)
*** TFTP (tftpd, webmin tftp module) 
*** RADIUS server (FreeRADIUS and Nedi or dialupadmin GUI)
*** TACACS+  (http://www.networkforums.net/index.php, http://www.shrubbery.net/tac_plus/ or "apt-get install tac_plus")
*** SSH server
*** TRAP receiver (Nedi?)
*** RRD based graph tools.. Cacti (Nedi intergration?)
* Having saved so much time for Network Guys with this project, then they should have time to do audit and control
*** IOS/PIX Benchmarks and RAT for Unix

== Blogs ==
=== Owen's Blog ===

Contactable
** MSM but not at work
** Nedi email: I get the post at work and home
** VoIP

** Reading http://archiv.tu-chemnitz.de/pub/2005/0045/data/
** Making a new Realtime-multicast.php because of work needs http://s11.invisionfree.com/Nedi/index.php?showtopic=245&st=0&#entry1053598
** Trying to find time to do so much. http://www.bbc.co.uk/drwho

=== Tristan's Blog ===

Given the rate of progress so far, we might need to reduce the scope of the project.  Basically, just show off NeDi. ;)

Steps to get the tools installed...

{{{
apt-get install build-essential
apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)
apt-get install cpp-3.4 gcc-3.4
export CC=gcc-3.4
sudo ./vmware-install.pl}}}

=== Remo's Blog ===

== Links ==
=== Distro specific ===
=== Applications ===
