{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/openoffice-spellchecking
* '''Created''': 2005-11-07 by MatthiasKlose
* '''Contributors''': 
* '''Packages affected''': openoffice.org*

=== Summary ===

Update/Package the hyphenation/spellchecking/thesaurus packages for OpenOffice.org 2.0

=== Rationale ===

Not all packages are updated for 2.0. Hyphenation patterns are not packaged at all.

=== Design ===

Dictionaries and thesaurus packages are packaged as single packages. The hypenation files are so small (< 5k) that packaging them each in a single binary package clutters the archives too much.

Where the license allows merging the dictionary and the hypenation patterns, package them together in the myspell-<language code> package. Create two catchall packages oo-hypenation and oo-hyphenation-non-free for all other hyphenation patterns.

The feature to download dictionaries from the OOo web site should be used as a fallback only.

=== Implementation ===

See above.

* All the hypenation code/data provided by upstream needs to be scanned for copyright issues. One known problem is hyphenation code derived from LateX (GPL), which is relicensed with no notice/reason. This should go into multiverse.
* dictionaries-common supports installing the hyphenation patterns as well. The same implementation as for dictionary installation can be used.
* Currently, 1.1.x compatible packages which cannot be upgraded for 2.0 have to be removed -- parallel installation of thesaurus packages for 1.1.x and 2.0 is not supported.
----
CategorySpec
