{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


=== The Ubuntu Cloud Archive ===

Canonical’s <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu-cloud.archive.canonical.com | Ubuntu Cloud Archive (UCA)]]</nowiki> gives users the ability to install backported !OpenStack versions on Ubuntu LTS releases.

The <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases | Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://releases.openstack.org/ | OpenStack]]</nowiki> projects publish new releases every six months at approximately the same time. Each Ubuntu release therefore includes a new !OpenStack version by default. It is this !OpenStack version that is backported to the latest LTS via the UCA. The <nowiki>[[https://ubuntu.com/about/release-cycle#openstack-release-cycle | Ubuntu OpenStack release cycle]]</nowiki> graphic represents this scheme visually over time.

=== SRU process ===

The <nowiki>[[OpenStack-StableReleaseUpdates | SRU process for OpenStack and the UCA]]</nowiki> is used during the development of a new UCA release and when backporting any updated dependencies and bug/security fixes to an existing UCA release.

For example, in terms of a new UCA release, Ubuntu Lunar ships with !OpenStack 2023.1 Antelope by default. In this timeframe, the latest LTS is Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy). Antelope packages (binary and source) are therefore backported to Jammy via the Antelope UCA release. In order for this to happen, individual Lunar packages are backported according to this staged process:

'''lunar -> antelope-staging -> antelope-proposed -> antelope-updates'''

When backporting fixes to an existing UCA release the original Ubuntu release must also get the update:

'''lunar-proposed -> antelope-staging -> antelope-proposed'''

When Lunar reaches end-of-life, Antelope package updates will be uploaded directly to the Antelope UCA.

This process can be monitored live with the <nowiki>[[https://openstack-ci-reports.ubuntu.com/reports/cloud-archive/index.html | Ubuntu Cloud Archive Tracker]]</nowiki>. It includes package versions for each of the above stages and for all UCA releases. The first column in the tracker is '''Ubuntu''' and represents the first stage in the above two scenarios.

=== Using the UCA ===

The release schedule of !OpenStack and Ubuntu are generally synchronised: a new !OpenStack release becomes available in the UCA every six months and coincides with each release of Ubuntu. As !OpenStack releases are added to the UCA and as releases fall out of support this section will be updated.

A UCA !OpenStack release is enabled on a host with the `add-apt-repository` command (it is recommended to run `sudo apt update` both before and after).

==== Ubuntu 24.04 LTS ====

On 24.04, !OpenStack Dalmatian (non-SLURP) is supported for 9 months, !OpenStack Epoxy for 36 months.

===== 2025.1 Epoxy =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:epoxy
</pre>

===== 2024.2 Dalmatian =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:dalmatian
</pre>

==== Ubuntu 22.04 LTS ====

On 22.04, !OpenStack Zed is supported for 18 months, !OpenStack Antelope for 36 months, and !OpenStack Bobcat (non-SLURP) is supported for 9 months. 24.04's default !OpenStack version (Caracal) is supported in the UCA for 36 months (i.e. until the end of the Ubuntu 22.04 LTS lifecycle).

===== 2024.1 Caracal =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:caracal
</pre>

===== 2023.2 Bobcat =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:bobcat
</pre>

===== 2023.1 Antelope =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:antelope
</pre>

===== Zed =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:zed
</pre>

==== Ubuntu 20.04 LTS ====

On 20.04, !OpenStack Victoria and !OpenStack Xena are supported for 18 months each, and !OpenStack Wallaby for 36 months. 22.04's default !OpenStack version (Yoga) is supported in the UCA for 36 months (i.e. until the end of the Ubuntu 20.04 LTS lifecycle).

===== Yoga =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:yoga
</pre>

===== Xena =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:xena
</pre>

===== Wallaby =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:wallaby
</pre>

==== Ubuntu 18.04 LTS ====

On 18.04, !OpenStack Rocky and !OpenStack Train are supported for 18 months each, and !OpenStack Stein for 36 months. !OpenStack Ussuri, 20.04's default !OpenStack version, is supported in the UCA for 36 months (i.e. until the end of the Ubuntu 18.04 LTS lifecycle).

===== Ussuri =====

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository cloud-archive:ussuri
</pre>

=== Ceph and the UCA ===

The below table shows the relationship between UCA release, Ceph release, Ubuntu LTS release, and Ubuntu default archive ("distro").

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Ceph release'''
| '''Default archive'''
| '''UCA release'''
| '''Ubuntu LTS release'''
|-
| Squid
| yes
| -
| Noble
|-
| Squid
| -
| jammy-caracal
| Jammy
|-
| Reef
| -
| jammy-bobcat
| Jammy
|-
| Quincy
| yes
| -
| Jammy
|-
| Quincy
| -
| focal-yoga
| Focal
|-
| Pacific
| -
| focal-xena
| Focal
|-
| Pacific
| -
| focal-wallaby
| Focal
|-
| Octopus
| yes
| -
| Focal
|-
| Octopus
| -
| bionic-ussuri
| Bionic
|-
| Nautilus
| -
| bionic-train
| Bionic
|-
| Mimic
| -
| bionic-stein
| Bionic
|-
| Mimic
| -
| bionic-rocky
| Bionic
|-
| Luminous
| yes
| -
| Bionic
|-
| Luminous
| -
| xenial-queens
| Xenial
|-
| Jewel
| yes
| -
| Xenial
|-
| Jewel
| -
| trusty-mitaka
| Trusty
|-
| Firefly
| yes
| -
| Trusty
|}

=== Reporting a bug ===

To report bugs against packages from the UCA, please use the `ubuntu-bug` tool.

For example:

<pre>
ubuntu-bug nova-compute
</pre>

This will ensure that bugs are raised against the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/cloud-archive | cloud-archive]]</nowiki> project on Launchpad.
