{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu OpenStack Installer ==

=== Installation Guides ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/cloud/install-ubuntu-openstack|Landscape OpenStack Autopilot Guide]]</nowiki>: Deploy '''Canonical OpenStack'''.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/clouddocs/installer/en/single-install.html|Single Installer Guide]]</nowiki>: Deploy a full OpenStack environment within a single LXC container with nested virtual machines.
* <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/clouddocs/installer/en/multi-install.html|Multi Installer Guide]]</nowiki>: Use MAAS and a combination of bare metal and virtual machines to deploy an OpenStack cloud.

=== Usage ===

* <nowiki>[[using-juju|Using Juju in OpenStack Guide]]</nowiki> - Learn how to orchestrate services with Juju and within an OpenStack cloud.

=== Getting Help ===

* Check out the <nowiki>[[debugging|Debugging]]</nowiki> page for further troubleshooting tips.
* IRC: server: '''irc.freenode.net''', channel: '''#ubuntu-server'''
* Email: <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-openstack-installer|Mailing list]]</nowiki>
* Issue Tracker: <nowiki>[[https://github.com/Ubuntu-Solutions-Engineering/openstack-installer|Openstack-installer on Github]]</nowiki>

Any support for administering, running, maintaining the OpenStack cloud is outside of the scope of this project. However, additional support for those questions are handled at:

* <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/openstack|Askubuntu/OpenStack]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://askubuntu.com/questions/tagged/landscape+openstack-autopilot|Askubuntu/Landscape OpenStack Autopilot]]</nowiki>

=== Testing Deployments ===

* <nowiki>[[testing|Deployment Test Guide]]</nowiki> - Interested in helping us test the deployment of private clouds with the installer? We'd love that!

=== Developer Details ===

* <nowiki>[[developer-setup|Developer Guide]]</nowiki> - Interested in contributing to the code? Start here first.
