{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Ubuntu-specific changes for Openstack Essex ==

Below is a list of Openstack Essex packages shipping with Ubuntu 12.04 with a quick summary of Ubuntu specific changes for each.

=== Nova ===

==== Patches ====

Currently, Nova's debian/patches contains the following:

* nova-manage_flagfile_location.patch: Updates Nova to also look in the distro-specific location for nova.conf
* path-to-the-xenhost.conf-fixup.patch: Updates xenserver plugin to look for xenhost.conf in the distro-specific path (/usr/etc/xenhost.conf -> /etc/xcp/)
* fix-ubuntu-tests.patch, kombu_tests_timeout.patch, fix-docs-build-without-network.patch: Minor changes to doc build confs and two tests that allow them to succeed on the network-isolated and permissions-constrainted package build systems.
* As of 04/12/2011, we're also carrying 6 patches that have been cherry-picked back from the stable/essex branch since it was opened.  This will be dropped with the first stable/essex update is issued and SRU'd:
*** * upstream/0001-fix-bug-where-nova-ignores-glance-host-in-imageref.patch
*** * upstream/0002-Stop-libvirt-test-from-deleting-instances-dir.patch
*** * upstream/0003-Allow-unprivileged-RADOS-users-to-access-rbd-volumes.patch
*** * upstream/0004-Fixed-bug-962840-added-a-test-case.patch
*** * upstream/0005-Populate-image-properties-with-project_id-again.patch
*** * upstream/0006-Use-project_id-in-ec2.cloud._format_image.patch

==== Default configuration ====

The default nova.conf shipped with all Nova components relies heavily on Nova's own defaults.  We set a number of platform-specific paths (logdir, state_path, etc). Other default settings of note:

* --iscsi_helper=tgtadm: Allows nova-volume to use the TGT iSCSI target which is currently the officially supported target implementation on Ubuntu (Nova defaults to ietd) 
* --connection_type=libvirt: We currently support the libvirt compute driver.  This flag is required for nova-compute and also needs to be set during database migration from diablo to essex (or passed manually to 'nova-manage db sync')
* --libvirt_use_virtio_for_bridges: Configures instances to use the virtio network driver for added performance.     * --root_helper=sudo nova-rootwrap: Instructs Nova to filter all shell commands that require root access through a wrapper that authorizes commands based on the process that is calling them.
* --ec2_private_dns_show_ip: Displays private IP addresses instead of hostnames by default in output of ec2-describe-instances.

==== User-facing changes ====

* Instances are configured with virtio network drivers by default
* ec2-describe-instance displays private IP address instead of private hostname by default.

=== Keystone ===

==== Patches ====

Currently, Keystone's debian/patches contains the following:

* fix-ubuntu-tests.patch: Disables a number of tests that require acecss to external git repositorys and/or target irrelevant branches of keystoneclient.
* sql_connection.patch: Configures all Keystone's backend drivers to use the respective SQL backends.

==== Default configuration ====

Minimal.  Setting default log file paths and setting all Keystone backends to store in a local sqlite database are the only two Ubuntu-specific changes.

==== User-facing changes ====

None

=== Glance ===

=== Swift ===

=== Horizon ===
