{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/openoffice-gnome
* '''Created''':  by JaneWeideman
* '''Contributors''': JaneWeideman, MatthiasKlose
* '''Packages affected''': openoffice.org-*, openoffice.org2-*
* '''Depends''': OpenOfficeGnome, OpenOffice64, OpenOfficeL10n, OpenOfficeHelp

=== Introduction ===

Informal spec, consisting of

* OpenOfficeGnome
* OpenOffice64
* OpenOfficeL10n
* OpenOfficeHelp
* OpenOfficeTesting

Add other open issues / todo's to this page until a specification is created.
----
CategorySpec

=== QuickStarter ===

The ooqs-* packages no longer exist in Dapper. However, you can easily enable the built-in quickstarter in OpenOffice.org 2 via the application preferences.

Click
<pre>
Tools > Options > Memory
</pre>

and check the box for
<pre>
Load OpenOffice.org during system start-up.
</pre>

The quickstarter will automatically run the next time OO.org is started.

Alternatively, add a Startup Program in your Sessions preferences:
<pre>
ooffice -quickstart -nologo -nodefault
</pre>

=== Speedup ===

Setting some memory settings give a serious speed improvement from the default Feisty Ubuntu installation:

* Open OpenOffice.org Word Processor
* Go to Tools -> Options -> Memory
* Set the following values:
** Number of steps: 30
** Use for OpenOffice.org: 128 MB
** Memory per object: 20 MB
** Number of objects: 20

=== Spellcheck languages ===

It's possible to install extra languages for OpenOffice through the myspell-* packages:

* Find the name of the language pack you want through a <nowiki>[[http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/search_packages.pl?keywords=myspell-&searchon=names&subword=1&version=all&release=all|search on the packages database]]</nowiki> (e.g. myspell-da for danish)
* Install the package:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install myspell-da
</pre>
* Voila! You might have to restart OpenOffice in order for it to recognize it.
