{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Overview ====

The Ubuntu !OpenStack team uses the deploy from source capability of the !OpenStack charms (openstack-origin-git) to ensure the charms work with the latest upstream master branch code.

==== Deploying from Source ====
When the charms are deployed with the openstack-origin-git=master config option, they will clone, and pip install from, master branches of core !OpenStack projects from github.  On each unit, the corresponding core git repositories can be found under /mnt/openstack-git.  Additionally, all services are run in a virtualenv, located under /mnt/openstack-git/venv.

The charms that support openstack-origin-git are: cinder, glance, keystone, openstack-dashboard, nova*, and neutron*.  Any other charms that are part of the deployment, and don't support openstack-origin-git, are deployed in their usual way from the latest supported release.

==== Daily Results ====

The charm CI system (osci) deploys !OpenStack from master once daily. The results of daily deploys can be reviewed at:
* <nowiki>[[http://10.245.162.208:8080/job/git_deploy_with_deployer/]]</nowiki>

You can also request daily results be emailed to you (check with beisner).

The bundle that is used for these deploys is located at:
http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ost-maintainers/openstack-charm-testing/trunk/view/head:/bundles/source/next.yaml

==== Daily CI Rotation ====

The following team members are responsible for investigating/fixing any CI failures on the day of the week they've signed up for.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Mon'''
| '''Tues'''
| '''Wed'''
| '''Thurs'''
| '''Fri'''
|-
| coreycb
| 
| 
| 
| 
|}
