{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===

This topic provides an overview on how to setup native LXC support under Openstack Havana. This feature is to be included in the next release of Openstack (Icehouse) and the next LTS release of Ubuntu. (14.04).

=== Getting Started ===

==== Installing LXC ====

In order to use the LXC driver for openstack you must have LXC installed and configured. To start off you must install LXC:

<pre>
sudo apt-get install lxc
</pre>

After you have installed LXC, nova-compute likes to control its own networking settings, to configure your containers network with Openstack you have to disable the '''lxcb0''' interface. To do this you have to modify the /etc/default/lxc-net file so the USE_LXC_BRIDGE looks like the following:

<pre>
USE_LXC_BRIDGE="false"
</pre>

==== Configuring Compute ====

After you have installed nova-compute, you have to configure the compute driver to use native lxc. To do that modify your /etc/nova/nova.conf to the following:

<pre>
compute_driver = nova.virt.lxc.LXCDriver
</pre>

After you have finished modifying the /etc/nova/nova.conf restart nova-compute.

<pre>
sudo restart nova-compute
</pre>

Once you have completed these steps you now have an Openstack cloud that can native LXC containers.
