{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Main Inclusion Report for open-iscsi ==

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/o/open-iscsi/]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures
# ''Rationale:''
** https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ServerPackageReview
 0. ''Security:''
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=open-iscsi|CVE]]</nowiki> entries
** No recent <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=open-iscsi|Secunia]]</nowiki> history
** No binaries running as sgid/suid. The daemon runs as root.
** Opens up 3205. Listens for SCSI traffic.
** No source code review.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** Due to the nature of the package it does not work out of the box, it requires manual intervention. However an example configuration file is provided.
** No debconf
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:open-iscsi|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>. Debian maintainer doesn't seem to respond to bugs.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/o/open-iscsi.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is dead (no version update 2007-06-16)
** <nowiki>[[http://www.open-iscsi.org]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://groups.google.com/group/open-iscsi/topics|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>
** Package deals with hardware that supports the iscsi interface.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliance
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliance
** Uses debhelper, no patching system
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper, bzip2 which are all in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-iscsi/+bug/187135]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
