{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Ubuntu OpenStack Version Tracking ===

Ubuntu and !OpenStack release a new version every six months at approximately the same time. Therefore, each Ubuntu release includes a new !OpenStack release by default. Each !OpenStack release is also backported to the previous LTS via the Ubuntu Cloud Archive (UCA).

For example, Ubuntu Disco includes Stein by default. Stein is also backported to Bionic via the Stein UCA.

For a package to land in the Stein UCA it lands in Disco first and then is backported to the Stein UCA, ie: disco->stein-staging->stein-proposed->stein-updates, which is also how you can read these reports.

Note: Technically, and to be more specific, package updates land in this order: 1. disco-proposed, 2. stein-staging, 3. stein-proposed, 4. disco-updates, 5. stein-updates. However when Disco reaches end-of-life, Stein package updates will be uploaded directly to the Stein UCA.

Version tracking reports are continuously published for each !OpenStack release, showing the current package versions that are available for the corresponding Ubuntu release and those that are available for the prior Ubuntu LTS release via UCA pockets:

* <nowiki>[[https://openstack-ci-reports.ubuntu.com/reports/cloud-archive|Ubuntu Cloud Archive Version Tracker]]</nowiki>
