{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Overview ===

The Ubuntu Server Team is responsible for maintaining the Openstack packaging in Ubuntu.

This page outline how to contribute to this packaging and what resources are available to help with testing of Openstack in Ubuntu.

=== Packaging Branches ===

Pre-upload packaging branches are maintained by the Ubuntu Server team in the following branch format:

<pre>
  lp:~ubuntu-server-dev/<COMPONENT_NAME>/<UPSTREAM-RELEASE>
</pre>

For example:

<pre>
  lp:~ubuntu-server-dev/nova/juno
  lp:~ubuntu-server-dev/nova/kilo
  lp:~ubuntu-server-dev/neutron/icehouse
</pre>

Merge Proposals from both within and outside of the team should be made against these branches, not the main packaging branches which are automatically created in the distribution.

Merge Proposals should be made targeting 'UNRELEASED' unless you are the developer responsible for the next upload to the Ubuntu Development archive.

=== Continuous Integration ===

During and after the release of Ubuntu, upstream commits are continually integrated and tested on various Ubuntu versions (including the current development release).

This testing activity is published at https://jenkins.qa.ubuntu.com/view/Openstack_Testing/.

NOTE: There are problems publishing from the lab with Canonical to this external Jenkins instance; email notifications are still working OK.

Currently the following activities are undertaken

* Testing of OpenStack Icehouse on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS and Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.
* Testing of OpenStack Juno on Ubuntu 14.10 and Ubuntu 14.04 LTS .
* Testing of OpenStack Kilo on Ubuntu vivid development and Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.

Currently testing activity takes place post-commit to the upstream VCS repositories.

If you are interested in receiving email notifications from the system that conducts all of this activity please join the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~openstack-ubuntu-testing-notifications|Openstack Ubuntu Testing Notifications]]</nowiki> team.

WARNING: it can be noisy and has quite high activity.

=== PPA's ===

As part of the Continuous Integration of upstream commits into the Ubuntu Packaging, packages are uploaded on a per-commit basis to various PPA's to support testing activities.

PPA's are hosted under the OpenStack Ubuntu testing team - the following are actively maintained:

<pre>
ppa:openstack-ubuntu-testing/icehouse
ppa:openstack-ubuntu-testing/juno
ppa:openstack-ubuntu-testing/kilo
</pre>

You can enable these using the add-apt-repository command:

<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:openstack-ubuntu-testing/kilo
</pre>

=== Submitting a Patch ===

Branch the bzr branch that you want to contribute a fix for:

<pre>
bzr branch lp:~ubuntu-server-dev/<project>/<release>
</pre>

Make the appropriate changes to the bzr branch, don't forget to commit:

<pre>
make some change
dch "<your debian changelog message>"
debcommit
</pre>

Push your branch to launchpad:

<pre>
bzr push lp:~<your launchpad userid>/<project>/<release> 
</pre>

Submit your branch for review to the master branch:

<pre>
bzr lp-propose
</pre>
