{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Created''':  by AndresSalomon
* '''Priority''': NeedsPriority
* '''People''': NeedsLead, NeedsSecond
* '''Contributors''':
* '''Interested''':
* '''Packages affected''': openafs, linux-source-2.6.12, openssh-client, openssh-server, libpam-krb5, libpam-openafs-session

=== Summary ===
Get out-of-the-box support for OpenAFS (and by extension Kerberos5, which OpenAFS depends upon).  OpenAFS is a distributed filesystem available from http://www.openafs.org/.
=== Rationale ===
OpenAFS is a networked, caching filesystem that is in use by many organizations.  It scales very well, allowing large amounts of disk space to be distributed across multiple file servers.  Unfortunately, it currently requires a bit of integration work to use it and Kerberos on Ubuntu, including custom kernel modules, ssh packages, and so on.
=== Use cases ===
I'm aware of financial institutions and universities that use OpenAFS for storage of large amounts of data, as well as allowing users' home directories to be mounted from anywhere.
=== Scope ===

=== Design ===

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
