{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Description ===
The Open Management Server Administrator software is used to monitor Dell hardware.  The official dell site for this is:

The relevant Dell pages are:

http://linux.dell.com/monitoring.shtml

http://www.dell.com/content/topics/global.aspx/sitelets/solutions/management/openmanage?c=us&l=en&cs=555

=== Installation ===

Dell has started releasing community supported(unofficial) OMSA since 6.3. Therefore Sara team has stopped development of new versions.
For installation instructions:
http://linux.dell.com/repo/community/deb/latest/

For details about Dell released OMSA:
http://linux.dell.com/repo/community/deb/

Instructions below are specific to Sara team's OMSA.

First, install openipmi and ipmitool:

<code> sudo apt-get install openipmi </code>
<code> sudo apt-get install ipmitool </code>

install lib32ncurses and ia32-libs:

<code> sudo apt-get install -f lib32ncurses5 </code>
<code> sudo apt-get install -f ia32-libs </code>

Grab the OMSA:

<code> wget ftp://ftp.sara.nl/pub/outgoing/dell/binary-amd64/dellomsa_5.5.0-5_amd64.deb </code>

Install OMSA:

<code> dpkg -i dellomsa_5.5.0-5_amd64.deb </code>

=== For 64-bit users ===
The rest of this may only be relevant for users that have 64-bit systems and are using Sara team's OMSA.

You will need to download the old ia32-libs DEB file and extract the libstdc++ library.

<code> wget http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/i/ia32-libs/ia32-libs_2.7ubuntu6.1_amd64.deb </code>

<code> dpkg-deb -x ia32-libs_2.7ubuntu6.1_amd64.deb ia32-libs </code>

<code> sudo cp ia32-libs/usr/lib32/libstdc++.so.5.0.7 /usr/lib32/ </code>

<code> cd /usr/lib32 </code>

<code> sudo ln -s libstdc++.so.5.0.7 libstdc++.so.5 </code>

=== Testing your installation ===
Now you should be able to run some of the tools.
<code> sudo omreport storage controller </code>

=== References ===
http://www.keithscode.com/linux-tutorials/installing-dell-openmanage-server-administrator-on-ubuntu.html

http://linux.dell.com/monitoring.shtml

http://www.dell.com/content/topics/global.aspx/sitelets/solutions/management/openmanage?c=us&l=en&cs=555

http://www.keithscode.com/linux-tutorials/installing-dell-openmanage-server-administrator-on-ubuntu.html
