{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' New

 '''Type:''' Beta Available

 '''Last updated on:''' 05-04-2007

 '''Links:'''

  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/opensessame|OpenSessame development on Launchpad]]</nowiki>

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
Personnel entry control and time tracking management system

=== Mission ===
OpenSessame is a personnel entry control and time tracking management system. Platform independent, multi-node, client-server system, written in Python, with wxPython/wxWidgets client, a web management gui and PostgreSQL database backend.

=== Objectives ===
* Setup launchpad presence in full.
* Structure and fill /BluePrints project's specs.

=== Communication Plan ===
Team will utilize <nowiki>[[https://answers.launchpad.net/opensessame/|Launchpad Answers]]</nowiki> for now. We will be setting up a forum shortly. OpenSessame team meeting can be called if needed.

 '''Project Lead:''' ''<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mmaglis|Menelaos Maglis]]</nowiki>''

 '''Project Team:''' ''/DevTeam OpenSessame development team''

 '''Meeting Details:''' ''No meating planned yet''

=== Quality Management Plan ===
Development will use a UML design -> code -> test -> UML re-design cycle to achieve general objectives decided in consensus. The <nowiki>[[/QATeam]]</nowiki> will have to verify that objectives have been fullfilled.

== Project Outline and Scope ==
''the following are only preliminary 'placeholder' entries. Need improvement.''
* Improve Appearance
** Change <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/opensessame|Launchpad Overview page]]</nowiki>

* Project handling
** Upload code
** Setup launchpad presence in full
** Decide on project structure; membership etc.

== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| ''New''
| ''Upload code to launchpad''
| ''Menelaos Maglis''
| ''15-04-2007''
| ''Clean up code.''
|}

== Notes ==
''None at this time''

== Issues ==
''None at this time''

== Postmortem ==
''Pending''
