{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Sunday, October 30th, 2011, 7:00pm (1900) PT ===

==== Original Agenda ====

   1. Decide Ubuntu Hour Day/Time 
   2. Call for LoCo Contributors (To help with Wiki, Website, Social Media and Meeting Minute Taker)
   3. Discuss Ubuntu Oregon Approval Application
   4. decide regular meeting schedule
   5. Review and Discuss Ocelot
   6. Review Salem Ubuntu Hour
   7. Discuss Possibility of Oregon Ubuntu CD Distributing

Ubuntu Oregon meetings are open to anyone to attend and calls for agenda items are generally put out via mailing list one week in advance. Meetings are chaired by either team lead or assistant team lead.

Meeting started by bkerensa at 02:00:55 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
http://ubottu.com/meetingology/logs/ubuntu-us-or/2011/ubuntu-us-or.2011-10-31-02.00.log.html
.

=== Meeting summary ===

* Decide Ubuntu Hour Day/Time
''IDEA:'' Salem Ubuntu Hour Friday's (Proposed by c_smith)  (bkerensa, 02:06:34)

* Call for LoCo Contributors (Wiki, Forums, Website, etc)
c_smith and nathwill for Wiki  (bkerensa, 02:13:06)
''ACTION:'' c_smith volunteers to also help with FB/Twitter  (bkerensa, 02:15:00)
''ACTION:'' jvlb says website and forums preferred  (bkerensa, 02:15:17)
''ACTION:'' MarkDude indicates he can help with wiki  (bkerensa, 02:15:28)
''ACTION:'' bkerensa will provide in-depth tasks via e-mail  (bkerensa, 02:15:50)
** Discuss Ubuntu Oregon Approval Application  (bkerensa, 02:18:52)
** discuss regular meeting schedule  (bkerensa, 02:24:39)
** Discuss Ocelot  (bkerensa, 02:27:00)
seems like everyone is running a 11.10 release or testing  (bkerensa, 02:30:48)
** Salem Ubuntu Hour Review  (bkerensa, 02:30:58)
** Discuss Possibility of Oregon Ubuntu CD Distributing  (bkerensa, 02:36:32)
** Assistant Team Lead/Contact  (bkerensa, 02:45:48)

Meeting ended at 02:57:41 UTC.

=== Votes ===

* Nathan Williams (nathwill) to take on role of new assistant team lead
   For: 4 Against: 0 Abstained: 0

=== Action items ===

* c_smith volunteers to also help with FB/Twitter
* jvlb says website and forums preferred
* MarkDude indicates he can help with wiki
* bkerensa will provide in-depth tasks via e-mail

=== Action items, by person ===

* bkerensa
* * bkerensa will provide in-depth tasks via e-mail
* c_smith
* * c_smith volunteers to also help with FB/Twitter
* jvlb
* * jvlb says website and forums preferred
* MarkDude
* * MarkDude indicates he can help with wiki

=== People present (lines said) ===

* bkerensa (196)
* c_smith (72)
* jvlb (25)
* meetingology (18)
* nathwill (16)
* MarkDude (13)
* thefinn93 (9)

=== Full Log ===

 02:00:55 <bkerensa> #startmeeting Ubuntu Oregon IRC Meeting 10/30/11 Agenda: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/Meetings/CurrentAgenda

 02:00:55 <meetingology> Meeting started Mon Oct 31 02:00:55 2011 UTC.  The chair is bkerensa. Information about MeetBot at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/AlanBell/mootbot.

 02:00:55 <meetingology> 

 02:00:55 <meetingology> Available commands: #accept #accepted #action #agree #agreed #chair #commands #endmeeting #endvote #halp #help #idea #info #link #lurk #meetingname #meetingtopic #nick #progress #rejected #replay #restrictlogs #save #startmeeting #subtopic #topic #unchair #undo #unlurk #vote #voters #votesrequired

 02:01:20 <bkerensa> Hello everyone and welcome to the October 2011 meeting for Ubuntu Oregon LoCo

 02:01:25 <bkerensa> How is everyone this evening?

 02:01:34 <c_smith> pretty darned good!! :D

 02:02:00 <jvlb> Fine.

 02:02:05 <bkerensa> I have an agenda before us today located here "https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OregonTeam/Meetings/CurrentAgenda" and at the end of these items I will open the floor for comments or other issues

 02:02:19 <bkerensa> I will now start with the first item for this evening

 02:02:44 <bkerensa> #topic Decide Ubuntu Hour Day/Time

 02:03:14 <bkerensa> First topic is Decide Ubuntu Hour Day/Time

 02:03:36 <c_smith> is that for Portland?

 02:03:38 <bkerensa> It would seem Nathwill is gone and Brian_H I'm not sure if he or any other metro area members are available atm

 02:03:49 <bkerensa> c_smith: For Portland and Salem or any other regions

 02:04:21 <bkerensa> I think we should defer on deciding a time and date for Portland since everyone from Portland is not here atm

 02:04:29 <bkerensa> everyone agree with that?

 02:04:31 <c_smith> well, being as some of the Salem area member are here, we could try to decide on a more concrete time for the Salem one.

 02:04:58 <bkerensa> c_smith: Feel free to take the floor

 02:05:29 <c_smith> okay, for the day, I thought Fridays might be good, yea or nay?

 02:05:49 <c_smith> and after that we have to decide on frequesncy

 02:06:34 <bkerensa> #idea Salem Ubuntu Hour Friday's (Proposed by c_smith)

 02:06:56 <bkerensa> c_smith: Who else is here from Salem area?

 02:07:10 <c_smith> isn't JVLB from around here?

 02:07:24 <bkerensa> I think he is

 02:07:24 <bkerensa> :D

 02:07:39 <c_smith> and let me go back up on the messages, gimme a sec

 02:07:56 <c_smith> and where is Markdude from?

 02:08:08 <c_smith> might have overestimated.

 02:08:08 <bkerensa> MarkDude is in California

 02:08:09 <bkerensa> ;)

 02:08:26 <c_smith> okay, so I overestimated a bit.

 02:08:35 <c_smith> JVLB, are you here?

 02:08:37 <bkerensa> ok well I have noted your idea of Fridays... We can continue the discussion of this on mailing list until we get a workable time and day

 02:08:49 <c_smith> will do.

 02:08:49 <jvlb> I be here.

 02:09:15 <bkerensa> #agreed Will discuss Salem and Portland Ubuntu Hour Time and Dates via mailing list

 02:09:20 <c_smith> k, I'd like to enlist your help over on the mailing list on the Salem hour, just for some details.

 02:09:31 <c_smith> that was at JVLB.

 02:09:38 * MarkDude will back up there - soon enouhg

 02:09:48 <bkerensa> Ok

 02:09:51 <bkerensa> next item

 02:10:12 <bkerensa> #topic Call for LoCo Contributors (Wiki, Forums, Website, etc)

 02:10:35 <c_smith> I can help on the Wiki page like I have been here and there.

 02:10:47 <bkerensa> I have in the past discussed the need or importance of having more LoCo members contribute to the overall operations of the LoCo

 02:10:58 <bkerensa> c_smith and nathwill have volunteered to help manage the wiki

 02:11:12 <jvlb> Is there any information regarding what need to be done?

 02:11:19 <bkerensa> I would also love to see some people volunteer to blog on Ubuntu-oregon.org and also help on forums from time to time

 02:11:48 <bkerensa> jvlb: Well the most important thing at the moment is Wiki (making sure meetings are listed and the wiki needs cleanup)

 02:12:12 <c_smith> well, being as the wiki doesn't take much of my time, I could possibly help elsewhere as well, wherever is needed.

 02:12:17 <bkerensa> additionally I would like someone to help manage our Facebook page and Twitter account to we can cross list events and important info

 02:13:06 <bkerensa> #info c_smith and nathwill for Wiki

 02:13:11 <c_smith> is it okay to volunteer for more than one job when the first one doesn't take much time out of the schedule?

 02:13:23 <bkerensa> Most definitely

 02:13:25 <jvlb> Well, my forte is web page markup and also could contribute to forums.

 02:13:34 <bkerensa> Excellent jvlb

 02:14:00 <c_smith> ok, well, I could help with the FB and Twitter pages.

 02:14:03 <bkerensa> Well I can put together a e-mail and contact everyone about the various tasks

 02:14:08 <bkerensa> c_smith: Excellent :)

 02:14:20 <c_smith> considering I already use those pretty extensively.

 02:14:43 <MarkDude> Consider me as helper for wiki, I am ok with moin

 02:15:00 <bkerensa> #action c_smith volunteers to also help with FB/Twitter

 02:15:00 * meetingology c_smith volunteers to also help with FB/Twitter

 02:15:17 <bkerensa> #action jvlb says website and forums preferred

 02:15:17 * meetingology jvlb says website and forums preferred

 02:15:28 <bkerensa> #action MarkDude indicates he can help with wiki

 02:15:28 * meetingology MarkDude indicates he can help with wiki

 02:15:50 <bkerensa> #action bkerensa will provide in-depth tasks via e-mail

 02:15:50 * meetingology bkerensa will provide in-depth tasks via e-mail

 02:16:09 <c_smith> that would help steer us in the right direction :P

 02:16:09 <bkerensa> any questions on the contributions item?

 02:16:27 * MarkDude can also do some basic graphics, consider me a low-level design team

 02:17:01 <bkerensa> Ok well I will move to the next item

 02:17:08 <jvlb> I'm not sure it has much relevance, but I can GIMP pretty well.

 02:17:47 <bkerensa> jvlb: Ahh on another note we are looking for some to help finish our banner layout

 02:18:02 <bkerensa> Linbit has agreed to sponsor it but my gimp/inkscape skills are epic bad

 02:18:03 <bkerensa> :P

 02:18:34 <jvlb> Could you provide any guidelines, or such? Later is fine.

 02:18:35 <bkerensa> jvlb: If you would like to have a crack at it I can send the info via e-mail

 02:18:39 <bkerensa> yeah

 02:18:40 <bkerensa> :D

 02:18:42 <bkerensa> ok next item

 02:18:52 <bkerensa> #subtopic Discuss Ubuntu Oregon Approval Application

 02:19:26 <bkerensa> So... I would love to see us become an approved LoCo before year end so we can have the few added perks of being approved

 02:19:47 <bkerensa> Which would be.... We get cases of CD's each release cycle and also bigger conference kits

 02:20:05 <bkerensa> The only barrier is getting the LoCo council to approve us

 02:20:31 <bkerensa> The criteria is essentially they want to know we are active and continue to be a sustainable contributor as a group

 02:20:47 <bkerensa> as such participation in events, meetings and around the community is important

 02:21:03 <c_smith> so, pretty much they want a team that actually does something?

 02:21:12 <bkerensa> yes

 02:21:23 <MarkDude> The team already does MORE thn other approvede teams

 02:21:29 <c_smith> well, we have that covered, at least atm.

 02:21:34 <bkerensa> MarkDude: Except California

 02:21:34 <MarkDude> Many agree on that

 02:21:34 <bkerensa> :P

 02:21:48 <bkerensa> I agree

 02:21:50 <MarkDude> you have like 3 elevtoral votes

 02:22:03 <MarkDude> we have like 40 its ok

 02:22:05 <MarkDude> :)

 02:22:21 <bkerensa> anyways I would feel comfortable submitting an application in the next 60 days or so and I suggest we discuss it more at our next meeting

 02:22:35 <c_smith> sound fair.

 02:22:46 * MarkDude would suggest getting approved by Zmas

 02:22:53 <MarkDude> or Xmas

 02:23:05 <bkerensa> MarkDude: I think the biggest hurdle will be paultag

 02:23:06 <bkerensa> imho

 02:23:07 <bkerensa> :P

 02:23:21 <c_smith> paultag?

 02:23:30 <bkerensa> a LoCo Council Member

 02:23:31 <c_smith> is he a high-up?

 02:23:31 <bkerensa> :P

 02:23:36 <c_smith> oh, ok

 02:23:40 <c_smith> strict?

 02:24:07 <bkerensa> nah just idk :) a unknown element

 02:24:07 <bkerensa> :P

 02:24:09 * MarkDude will help at thos meetings?

 02:24:12 <c_smith> ah, ok

 02:24:13 <bkerensa> sure

 02:24:19 * bkerensa is going to move to next item

 02:24:20 <bkerensa> :)

 02:24:21 <c_smith> shouldn't be too bad.

 02:24:39 <bkerensa> #subtopic discuss regular meeting schedule

 02:24:52 <MarkDude> paul can also be asked to step aside due to conflict of interest

 02:25:06 <bkerensa> So right now we are meeting towards the end of each month in the evening and I wanna make sure this is working well.... So far I have had no complaints

 02:25:10 <MarkDude> BY definition he cant be to uppity

 02:25:47 <bkerensa> any feedback our our meeting time/day?

 02:25:52 <bkerensa> on our*

 02:25:53 <c_smith> I have no complaints, can't meet when I'm not here, but this schedule is pretty good.

 02:26:09 <c_smith> *I can't meet when I'm not here

 02:26:12 <bkerensa> jvlb: Did this time work good for you?

 02:26:17 <jvlb> The time is fine, by me.

 02:26:21 <bkerensa> ok :)

 02:26:33 <bkerensa> #agreed current meeting day/time works well

 02:27:00 <bkerensa> #subtopic Discuss Ocelot

 02:27:09 <bkerensa> so how many people are running Ocelot?

 02:27:19 <c_smith> I am, Kubuntu Oneiric atm

 02:27:19 * bkerensa raises hand

 02:27:28 <c_smith> have used Ubuntu Oneiric, too

 02:27:57 <jvlb> I've tested it, but am holding out for 12.04 to go production.

 02:28:01 * c_smith raises hand to be safe

 02:28:04 <bkerensa> :D

 02:28:08 <bkerensa> excellent

 02:28:18 <bkerensa> well I'm glad to see people are using or testing it...

 02:28:33 * bkerensa was skeptical at first due to the resource intensiveness of Unity

 02:28:45 <bkerensa> in fact I had to get a new laptop just to run Ocelot which disturbed me

 02:29:13 <bkerensa> but I'm using it full time... I like it but still do prefer Gnome2... I may switch to OpenBox on top of Ocelot

 02:29:14 <bkerensa> :D

 02:29:16 <jvlb> Perhaps I should point out, I'm KDE all the way.

 02:29:16 <c_smith> eh, when I use Ubuntu, I always use Cairo Dock

 02:30:04 * bkerensa really likes OpenBox but in order to efficiently be a bug contributor I need to run current release stock

 02:30:04 <bkerensa> :P

 02:30:22 <c_smith> Bkerensa, I have a media-player question for ya after the meeting.

 02:30:30 <bkerensa> c_smith: k

 02:30:36 * bkerensa will move to next item

 02:30:48 <bkerensa> #info seems like everyone is running a 11.10 release or testing

 02:30:58 <bkerensa> #subtopic Salem Ubuntu Hour Review

 02:31:09 <bkerensa> c_smith: Can you tell us how the Ubuntu Hour went?

 02:31:42 <c_smith> it went pretty well, considering the turnout, but I would say it went well, would you, JVLB?

 02:32:16 <jvlb> Hearkening back to the IRC meets, perhaps we should consider the ramifications of December 31.

 02:32:40 <c_smith> hmmmm, new-years, I see what you mean.

 02:32:50 <jvlb> I'm down wid dat, Cody.

 02:32:58 <bkerensa> c_smith: Just remember that if you look at other LoCo's events they are not always huge... In fact usually small groups but persistance will pay off in growing our events as more people see how much fun your having and want to get involved

 02:33:08 <bkerensa> jvlb: Yeah in december we will have to do something else

 02:33:09 <bkerensa> :)

 02:33:22 * bkerensa will be out of state even... In MarkDude's neck of the woods

 02:33:23 <bkerensa> :P

 02:33:30 <c_smith> yeah, good point, I honestly wasn't expecting anyone to show up, hence what I said about the turnout.

 02:34:00 * bkerensa continues to look at other LoCo's throughout the country who posts photos

 02:34:15 <bkerensa> and thus far our Release Party and Global Jam were both a bit bigger then other LoCo's

 02:34:29 <bkerensa> Its not a competition but its a good sign that there is a good community here

 02:34:30 <c_smith> that's good.

 02:34:40 <bkerensa> anyways

 02:34:59 <bkerensa> let me note for the minutes that I will likely do our December meeting mid-month

 02:35:02 <bkerensa> due to Holidays

 02:35:18 * bkerensa will ping the mailing list to see what works best

 02:35:20 <jvlb> Well, take some photos of Portland crowds and I GIMP some Ubuntu logo in.

 02:35:33 <bkerensa> jvlb: k

 02:35:55 <c_smith> JVLB, would you teach me how to do that at another time?

 02:36:10 <bkerensa> #agreed December End of Month Meeting  Unlikely To Work (Will Shoot for Mid-Month)

 02:36:18 <jvlb> Sure, CS.

 02:36:22 * c_smith agrees

 02:36:24 <c_smith> cool

 02:36:27 <bkerensa> Ok next item

 02:36:32 <bkerensa> #subtopic Discuss Possibility of Oregon Ubuntu CD Distributing

 02:36:55 <bkerensa> Ok so I have been pushing around a idea of burning cd's here in Oregon and distributing them

 02:37:08 <c_smith> if there it helps, I could try to get the CDs to people on the street.

 02:37:16 <bkerensa> I have no problem buying a spindle from time to time and also we will likely need a label system

 02:37:25 <bkerensa> and some sleeves

 02:37:37 * bkerensa can look into sponsorship opportunities

 02:37:40 <c_smith> would Lightscribe discs be acceptable?

 02:37:53 <bkerensa> I have a call out to Verbatim and I will nudge my corporate contacts there

 02:38:05 * c_smith has a Lightscribe drive and just needs to buy sleeves and discs.

 02:38:11 <bkerensa> c_smith: I have heard that people are rejecting lightscribe because they look homemade

 02:38:15 <bkerensa> and people fear viruses

 02:38:27 <c_smith> hmmmm, will keep that in mind.

 02:38:52 <bkerensa> I think honestly we could get a box or two of cd spindles sponsored and labels and sleeves

 02:39:12 <bkerensa> and then I can make labels and distribute spindles of burned labeled cd's to members to give out in their regions

 02:39:18 <c_smith> would it help if we pitch in to buy some of them off the Canonical shop?

 02:39:28 <c_smith> if so, I'd pitch in a bit

 02:39:43 <bkerensa> c_smith: Although I think Canonical does a great job by supporting Ubuntu

 02:39:53 <jvlb> You know, I've been thinking about the barriers to entry for some time. I think workshops on installation and setup are more relevant than install fests, these days. Downloading and burning your own CD is a useful skill to teach. Factory CDs would be nice, though.

 02:39:54 <bkerensa> I feel the cost of buying CD's or most merchandise from them is loss

 02:39:59 <bkerensa> its very expensive

 02:40:02 <c_smith> hmmmm, ok

 02:40:07 <bkerensa> because they sell/ship from europe

 02:40:34 <bkerensa> We could have the same quantity printed locally for much cheaper and other LoCo's feel the same way so :P

 02:41:06 <c_smith> for JVLB's idea, couldn't we integrate a workshop AND installfest into one?

 02:41:15 <bkerensa> Their shirts for instance I can get them $5 cheaper with free shipping from CustomInk which is still expensive

 02:41:15 <bkerensa> :P

 02:41:26 <jvlb> The problem is you need to go for quantity to get a good price and in six months, they're out of date. LTS would be a better deal, though.

 02:41:42 <bkerensa> jvlb: Well we have a partnership formed with FreeGeek so yeah we can do workshops

 02:41:50 <bkerensa> also a workshop in Salem would be cool

 02:42:28 <c_smith> I honestly don't have contacts for salem for that stuff, but I could look into it. can't say I'd find much,

 02:42:41 <bkerensa> c_smith: Google is your friend

 02:42:41 <bkerensa> ;)

 02:42:44 <c_smith> true.

 02:43:07 <c_smith> though honestly not sure what to look for....

 02:43:19 <bkerensa> :D

 02:43:22 <c_smith> I'll have to figure that out.

 02:43:30 <bkerensa> Yeah... We can talk in private

 02:43:33 <bkerensa> shoot me a e-mai

 02:43:39 <bkerensa> nathwill: Welcome

 02:43:48 <c_smith> hey, there.

 02:43:52 <nathwill> greetings

 02:43:57 <c_smith> cool, I'll do that later.

 02:44:05 <jvlb> Mr. Smith, would you be up for co-hosting a local workshop? I could approach the library about it.

 02:44:08 <nathwill> sorry i'm late

 02:44:14 <c_smith> that would work.

 02:44:18 <bkerensa> jvlb: Library's are a good option

 02:44:23 <bkerensa> If they give you a no

 02:44:26 <bkerensa> shoot me a e-mail

 02:44:39 <c_smith> didn't know the Library would do that. but I'll get in contact with them.

 02:44:48 <bkerensa> I can send them a convincing e-mail :P from a @ubuntu.com e-mail which might be a little different

 02:44:49 <bkerensa> :P

 02:45:10 <bkerensa> c_smith: Oh yeah... Multnomah County Library allows people to do workshops heck the county will pay you to do one here

 02:45:11 <bkerensa> :D

 02:45:12 <c_smith> when I get their contact email, I'll have to have you do it.

 02:45:16 <jvlb> CS, not sure they will, but it's who I talk to first.

 02:45:27 <bkerensa> ok

 02:45:35 <bkerensa> I want to add a agenda item

 02:45:46 <jvlb> I don't actually have any contacts at the lib. If you do, Cody, go for it.

 02:45:47 <nathwill> suhi!

 02:45:48 <bkerensa> #subtopic Assistant Team Lead/Contact

 02:46:03 <nathwill> sushi, that is...

 02:46:06 <bkerensa> So since thefinn93 is gone.... I have taken over 100% of the load

 02:46:22 <c_smith> and I've seen that go downhill before.

 02:46:32 <c_smith> not with Ben, but other places.

 02:46:39 <bkerensa> and although thefinn93 will tell you I did everything anyways ( I disagree ) I feel it would be good to have an Assistant Lead again

 02:47:02 <jvlb> Nathwill, are you baiting us, (all puns intended)?

 02:47:05 <c_smith> that should ease stuff up there. so I say go for it.

 02:47:09 <bkerensa> c_smith: What goes downhill?

 02:47:11 <thefinn93> sorry

 02:47:26 <c_smith> when people take on all the load, eventually they burn out.

 02:47:43 <bkerensa> I mean a few weeks back I was so burnt out.... from back to back conventions and events up the wazoo

 02:47:44 <bkerensa> :P

 02:47:45 <c_smith> that's what I meant by that.

 02:47:53 <bkerensa> yeah

 02:48:05 <nathwill> bkerensa, anything with a friction coefficient < gravity

 02:48:14 <bkerensa> Does anyone have any ideas for assistant lead?

 02:48:18 * bkerensa has someone in mind

 02:48:22 <bkerensa> but has not asked them yet

 02:48:23 <bkerensa> :P

 02:48:31 <bkerensa> they are in channel right now too :P

 02:48:33 <nathwill> what are the responsibilities?

 02:48:41 <c_smith> I honestly don't know anyone here well enough to offer up.

 02:48:44 <bkerensa> nathwill: ask thefinn93 he was the last one

 02:48:45 <bkerensa> :P

 02:48:59 <bkerensa> thefinn93: Not really hard right?

 02:49:21 <thefinn93> not much IIRC

 02:49:40 <bkerensa> nathwill: Essentially the responsibilities consist of helping lead the team (meetings, events etc)

 02:49:43 <thefinn93> nope

 02:49:48 <thefinn93> i had to carry some stuff, meet ben places

 02:49:57 <bkerensa> there is not a major burden or any obligation to be at every meeting or event

 02:50:03 <thefinn93> yep

 02:50:11 <c_smith> I'd offer myself, but I think that would be a bit self-glorifying, wouldn't it?

 02:50:18 <bkerensa> for instance if I cant make a meeting

 02:50:21 <nathwill> heavy stuff? ;)

 02:50:24 <bkerensa> you would act in interim

 02:50:25 <bkerensa> :D

 02:50:36 * bkerensa pokes thefinn93 ^

 02:50:57 <c_smith> also, don't know that I could travel up to portland too much..... without learning the portland equivalent of the City Bus.

 02:51:09 <bkerensa> nathwill: he just helped carry like swag and food

 02:51:10 <bkerensa> :D

 02:51:21 <bkerensa> and helped me do the shopping for global jam

 02:51:23 <jvlb> Yeah, the time/distance thing for us in Salem is an issue.

 02:51:33 <c_smith> hence me not offering myself.

 02:51:35 <nathwill> well i agree that a backup is a good idea. ben's a busy guy, and we would do better w/ people to share the load

 02:51:53 <jvlb> No question.

 02:51:58 <nathwill> people/person i should say

 02:52:01 <thefinn93> yes

 02:52:05 <thefinn93> if you miss a meeting, big deal, just make sure that ben doesn't

 02:52:07 <bkerensa> Well I had nathwill in mind for the role but this is up to the LoCo if everyone agrees including him

 02:52:08 <bkerensa> :D

 02:52:13 <bkerensa> lol

 02:52:26 <bkerensa> thefinn93 used to SMS bomb me when I missed that one meeting

 02:52:27 <bkerensa> :D

 02:52:35 <jvlb> I'll vote for anyone who isn't me.

 02:52:36 <c_smith> I agree with Nathwill,

 02:52:39 <nathwill> i'm amenable if there are no major objections

 02:52:51 <bkerensa> lets put it to a vote

 02:52:52 <bkerensa> one sec

 02:53:04 <jvlb> I second Nathwill's nomination.

 02:53:24 <bkerensa> #voters jvlb bkerensa MarkDude thefinn93 c_smith

 02:53:24 <meetingology> Current voters: MarkDude bkerensa c_smith jvlb thefinn93

 02:53:44 <bkerensa> #vote Nathan Williams (nathwill) to take on role of new assistant team lead

 02:53:44 <meetingology> Please vote on: Nathan Williams (nathwill) to take on role of new assistant team lead

 02:53:44 <meetingology> Public votes can be registered by saying +1, +0 or -1 in channel, (private votes don't work yet, but when they do it will be by messaging the channel followed by +1/-1/+0 to me)

 02:53:51 <bkerensa> +1

 02:53:51 <meetingology> +1 received from bkerensa

 02:53:55 <c_smith> +1

 02:53:55 <meetingology> +1 received from c_smith

 02:54:00 <jvlb> +1

 02:54:00 <meetingology> +1 received from jvlb

 02:54:02 <thefinn93> +1

 02:54:02 <meetingology> +1 received from thefinn93

 02:54:17 <bkerensa> #endvote

 02:54:17 <meetingology> Voting ended on: Nathan Williams (nathwill) to take on role of new assistant team lead

 02:54:17 <meetingology> Votes for:4 Votes against:0 Abstentions:0

 02:54:17 <meetingology> Motion carried

 02:54:35 <nathwill> flawless victory!

 02:54:36 <bkerensa> so its official

 02:54:37 <bkerensa> ;)

 02:54:54 <bkerensa> nathwill: You also get a e-mail address or alias if you so choose

 02:54:55 <bkerensa> ;)

 02:54:59 <thefinn93> lol

 02:55:00 <bkerensa> @ubuntu-oregon.org

 02:55:00 <meetingology> bkerensa: Error: "ubuntu-oregon.org" is not a valid command.

 02:55:00 <bkerensa> :P

 02:55:08 * bkerensa slaps meetingology

 02:55:11 <nathwill> thanks guys. appreciate it, i'll do the best i can

 02:55:20 <bkerensa> well that concludes the agenda items

 02:55:27 <bkerensa> does anyone have anything to add before I end?

 02:55:30 <c_smith> lol @ bkerensa and meetingology

 02:55:39 <jvlb> Do you move we adjourn?

 02:55:52 <nathwill> one note before we go

 02:55:56 <bkerensa> yes?

 02:56:18 <nathwill> i started the dicussion re: a talk @ yahoo with our site mgr

 02:56:27 <bkerensa> nathwill: Yeah :)

 02:56:51 <bkerensa> cool

 02:56:55 <nathwill> but will not have results to announce until next week, as i am training in cali all this week

 02:57:04 <bkerensa> OH

 02:57:11 <bkerensa> nathwill: Sunnyvale for the win

 02:57:11 <bkerensa> :D

 02:57:18 <bkerensa> I assume Sunnyvale anyways

 02:57:19 <nathwill> yessir :)

 02:57:21 <bkerensa> LOL

 02:57:22 <bkerensa> :P

 02:57:34 * bkerensa knows every Tech Companies corporate HQ city :P

 02:57:38 <bkerensa> ok

 02:57:41 <bkerensa> #endmeeting
