{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

/!\ This page is in the process of being updated. /!\
== January 2012 Meeting ==
The next meeting will take place on '''Sunday, January 8th, 2012, 7:00pm (PST)''' on #Ubuntu-us-or.

Team meetings are open to anyone interested in current team activities.  All team members are encouraged to attend.  If you would like to discuss something that is not shown on the agenda, by all means feel free to add it here so it will be covered.

For more information regarding the meeting, please contact the team via the mailing list ''(ubuntu-us-or@lists.ubuntu.com)'' or at '''''#ubuntu-us-or''''', ''irc.freenode.net''.

== Agenda ==

* Discuss Spring GeekNic (http://geeknic.org/)

* Discuss Conventions/Conferences for 2012 (Events we want to have a booth at)
 
* Recognize Cody Smith's contributions with Salem Ubuntu Hour kickstarting

* Discuss Quarterly Ubuntu Store CrowdPurchase

* Discuss Approval Application before LoCo Council

* Discuss some points that were brought up to Cody Smith about Salem and Ubuntu Hours there and brainstorm some solutions to problems that were lain out to Cody Smith

''In the event that an agenda item is not able to be discussed then it will be added to the agenda for the next team meeting or a special meeting may be held to cover the topic.''

== Past Meetings ==
 ----
CategoryLoCoTeams
