{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


The <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/project/about-ubuntu/conduct|Ubuntu Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> forms the basis of the pleasant atmosphere in Ubuntu. 

Being nice to each other, being cooperative, and respecting each other is a must.

== IRC ==

<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat|Internet Relay Chat]]</nowiki> (IRC) enables real-time communication, and subsequently greater productivity when working to reach a consensus or discuss ideas and goals. IRC is a standard communications channel in many FOSS (Free and Open Source Software) communities, and as such, there's a wealth of customs associated with it.

Want to talk with members of the Oregon LoCo Team right now? We have our own IRC channel. :) It's #ubuntu-us-or on irc.freenode.net. 

Sound confusing? It's not, we promise.

=== Getting Started With IRC ===
* Dont have an IRC Client? - <nowiki>[[http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu-us-or|Click here to access IRC in your browser]]</nowiki>. No worries - just enter your nickname and you're ready to go!
* Prefer a native IRC Client? - <nowiki>[[apt:xchat|XChat]]</nowiki> is a popular choice.
* #ubuntu-us-or is staffed by volunteers, and many users like to idle (signed in, but not at their computer), so someone may not respond immediately. Be patient, and someone '''will''' get back to you.
* Before asking in IRC, check out the <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community|Ubuntu Community Help]]</nowiki> site.
* Where's the FAQ? - <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CommonQuestions|Common Questions]]</nowiki> may save you time if you check them out.
* Prefer visual learning? - Ubuntu Ohio's LoCo Team has made <nowiki>[[http://ohio.ubuntu-us.org/node/22 |a Screencast]]</nowiki> with step by step instructions to walk you through the process. 

=== Channel Guidelines ===
All Ubuntu channels follow the <nowiki>[[IrcGuidelines|Ubuntu IRC Guidelines]]</nowiki>

These guidelines do not cover every single aspect of the Ubuntu channels' etiquette. Specific practices are encouraged and discouraged, according to these guidelines' intent as well as to practical channel needs. Recommendations from channel operators, including those stored in the channel bots, should be heeded.

Some common mistakes made by people unfamiliar with IRC etiquette:
* Don't flood the channel - "Flooding" the channel by pasting large texts disrupts conversations, and can frustrate other users. Please don't do it. If you need to share large texts, such as errors, it's preferred to use <nowiki>[[http://paste.ubuntu.com|Ubuntu Pastebin]]</nowiki>.
* Don't use public away messages - These generate needless noise, and interrupt the flow of conversation.
* Be patient! The volunteers who provide support in IRC are often signed in while doing other things, and may not immediately see, or know the answer to your question. A good rule of thumb is to wait 30 minutes after asking a question before '''politely''' re-asking your question.
* '''Language and Subject''' - All #ubuntu channels are visited by people whose ages vary, and whose tolerance of language and subject choice vary equally as much. Please be considerate of everyone and keep all the #ubuntu channels family friendly. Be aware that there are limits to accepted behaviour and subjects. When using any #ubuntu channel, please avoid the use of profanity and avoid controversial topics such as war, race, religion, politics (unless related to software licensing), gender, sexuality, drugs, questionable legal activities, removing of ones self from the planet. These discussions should be taken to other channels such as #off-topic or ##politics. (Note <nowiki>[[http://freenode.net/policy.shtml#offtopic|Freenode Policy]]</nowiki> when you join those channels.)
* Don't be annoying. '''REALLY!'''

=== Asking Smart Questions ===
<nowiki>[[http://catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html|This guide]]</nowiki> applies to all kinds of volunteer supported communities, and is recommended reading for everyone!

=== Disputes ===

In any group, it's inevitable that people will hold different views. This fact of life can sometimes lead to disagreements.

If you disagree with the decision of a channel operator, then talk to the operator (think moderator) about it in a polite manner. Profanity and insults will not help, so please don't do that. If talking to the operator personally does not provide a satisfactory solution, you are welcome to join the operators channel to discuss the matter with FreeNode operators.

To obtain a list of current operators for the LoCo's channel, use this command in your IRC Client "/msg chanserv access #ubuntu-us-or list"

Please also be aware that ''some'' Ubuntu channels are logged, many officially and all of them unofficially by individual users, and the contents of all channels are considered to be in the public domain. What you say is "on the record".

Keeping a pleasant atmosphere in #ubuntu-us-or is important for both new and experienced users. The users of the channel should do their best to keep the channel friendly so that we can attract users of all kinds, without anyone feeling that we're an inhospitable group.
