{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; background-repeat: no-repeat; background-position:  98% 0.5ex; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; padding: 0.5em;">'''Related'''<<BR>>
|}

== Library Distribution ==

== Project Overview ==
 '''Status:''' Work in Progress

 '''Type:''' Distribution

 '''Last updated on:''' December 14th, 2007

 '''Location:''' ''Unspecified''

=== Purpose/Problem Statement ===
Some potential users may not be aware Ubuntu exists.  Getting CD's and other Ubuntu media on Library shelves will help raise awareness.

=== Mission ===
Advocate and distribute Ubuntu while laying the groundwork for a library conversion project.

=== Objectives ===
* Get Ubuntu CD's on library shelves
* Introduce library staff to Ubuntu
* Find out what needs to happen to get CD's added to the library system
* Document everything so our success can be reproduced by other loco teams with little effort

=== Communication Plan ===
Team will utilize our mailing list ''(ubuntu-us-or@lists.ubuntu.com)'' for communication.  Oregon Team meeting can be called if needed.

== Project Outline and Scope ==
* ''Documentation will continue through all project phases''
* Planning
** Determine library requirements for adding media to system and placing on shelves
** Assess quantities that will be needed 
** Gather needed resources (CD's, jewel cases, documentation, etc.)

* Distribute

* Reproduce
  
== Tasks ==
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Status
| Description
| Owner
| Delivery Date
| Notes
|-
| New
| Approach library regarding media
| ''Assume Ownership''
| ''Undetermined''
| We will want to ensure that libraries get professional looking copies of Edubuntu, Kubuntu and Ubuntu CD's
|-
| New
| Create any needed supporting literature or marketing materials
| ''Assume Ownership''
| ''Undetermined''
| We may need to find more durable cases and include a statement about being free to copy or redistribute the software
|-
| New
| Distribute CD's
| ''Assume Ownership''
| ''Undetermined''
| If we can make CD's available to all library patrons in Oregon Team area's then we will have to find a way to throw a party!
|}

== Notes ==
Don't forget that the county where the library is located may have some play in library staff decisions.

Links to associated projects will be added shortly.

== Issues ==
Current cases for Ubuntu media will not hold up to a drop box test.
