{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Welcome! ==
Thanks for visiting!  We are Ubuntu Oregon, a group of individuals focused on promoting and improving Ubuntu Linux.

If you're just interested in looking around for now, check out the links above.

If you are interested in joining (we don't bite! :) ), the first thing to do is join our <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-or|Team Mailing list]]</nowiki> and the <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=345|forums]]</nowiki>. For more ways to join, see section "How To Join" below.

The team IRC channel is #ubuntu-us-or on the irc.freenode.net servers, and we can almost always be reached there for questions, suggestions, and pleasant conversation.

== Getting together ==

We frequently get together for various purposes, whether it be a Global Jam, a Release Party, a Bug Squashing Party, or more improvisational Ubuntu Hours.

There are a few places we can meet in the Portland area:

* <nowiki>[[http://freegeek.org/|Free Geek]]</nowiki> of course
* <nowiki>[[http://www.backspace.bz/ | Backspace]]</nowiki> which would be a decent place to meet- followed up by playing some games at <nowiki>[[http://www.groundkontrol.com/ |Ground Kontrol]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/United_States/750/detail/|Ava Roasteria]]</nowiki> in Beaverton
 
Salem Meeting Spots:
* <nowiki>[[http://loco.ubuntu.com/events/venues/United_States/639/detail/|Broadway Commons Coffee House]]</nowiki>

Eugene meeting spots:

* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/place?hl=en&sugexp=ldymls&xhr=t&cp=39&um=1&ie=UTF-8&q=Theo's+on+Lincoln+and+8th+eugene+oregon&fb=1&gl=us&hq=Theo's&hnear=Lincoln+St+%26+W+8th+Ave,+Eugene,+OR+97401&cid=9607244462690780507&ei=V8c1TZytKIaasAOPlJStBQ&sa=X&oi=local_result&ct=placepage-link&resnum=1&sqi=2&ved=0CBsQ4gkwAA | Theo's]]</nowiki> on Lincoln and 8th WIFI
* <nowiki>[[http://maps.google.com/maps/place?hl=en&sugexp=ldymls&xhr=t&cp=20&um=1&ie=UTF-8&q=Espresso+Roma+oregon&fb=1&gl=us&hq=Espresso+Roma&hnear=Oregon&cid=10127890449182967957 | Espresso Roma]]</nowiki> on 13th by UO campus. It has a covered outside area also. WIFI
* Downtown Eugene Library has meeting rooms available- they need to be reserved.  
* <nowiki>[[http://www.codechops.com/|CodeChops]]</nowiki> - where <nowiki>[[http://www.euglug.org|EUGLUG]]</nowiki> generally occurs.
* 3C Interactive - previously held EUGLUG meetings.
* Downtown Lane Community College

== Current Goals ==
* Spread Ubuntu Linux through out the state of Oregon
* Provide assistance with migrating, installing, configuring and using Ubuntu
* Promote the Ubuntu Certification
* Work with other groups such as PLUG and FreeGeek to improve peoples computing experience by increasing awareness as well as improving software and documentation

== How to Join ==
We ask that everyone who would like to be a member of the Oregon Team read the latest version of the  <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.1/|Code of Conduct]]</nowiki> (CoC), then sign <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/codeofconduct/1.1/+sign|sign the agreement]]</nowiki> before joining.

We ask that you seal the deal so to speak because the CoC is the foundation of Ubuntu's philosophy.  Signing the CoC does means that you will have to  <nowiki>[[https://login.launchpad.net/+new_account|register with Launchpad]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/GnuPrivacyGuardHowto|generate and upload a GnuPG key]]</nowiki>. Think of Launchpad as the vehicle used by Ubuntu to consolidate and collaborate on projects.

If you need help with the steps above, feel free to contact one of us. The IRC channel (#ubuntu-us-or) is a good place to start

Now you need to <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UserPreferences|Login]]</nowiki> with your Launchpad account. 
Fill out your profile with the desired information.  Don’t forget to add OregonTeam to the "Subscribed wiki pages" list!

Most communication goes through our team's mailing list, so sign up at <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-or]]</nowiki> to stay in the know about local events and get involved in the discussion.

Welcom to Ubuntu Oregon! We look forward to hearing from you.

== Suggestions ==
Please feel free to email us, at ubuntu-us-or@lists.ubuntu.com.
