{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+spec/migration-assistant
* '''Created''':  by SaschaBrossmann
* '''Contributors''': SaschaBrossmann
* '''Packages affected''': 

=== Summary ===

Develop an application to ease transition from other platforms (primarily Windows) to Ubuntu Linux. Moving important personal data like contacts, email, calendar, browser bookmarks, etc. to Ubuntu should 'just work' automagically and not require manually moving and importing files into the respective applications. The application should rely on a plug-in architecture for the actual data migration. In case of branding conflicts (-> Apple) the tool could be named "Escape Agent".

=== Rationale ===

Switching to another system gets harder the more grown data a user relies on. Migrating address books, email, calendar, browser bookmarks, application settings etc. to Ubuntu is currently a tedious manual task. Users need to know where their applications store data, how to access this data when booted into Linux, how to make them available to the applications they like to use etc. There should be an application to assist them, turning the migration of important data into a one-step process without additional manual labour.

=== Use cases ===

=== Scope ===

Migrate basic personal data from Windows to an Ubuntu account:

* email
* browser bookmarks (other settings, if possible)
* contacts
* calendar

=== Design ===

See MigrationAssistance for a more fleshed-out version of this specification.

=== Implementation ===

==== Code ====

==== Data preservation and migration ====

=== Outstanding issues ===

=== BoF agenda and discussion ===
----
CategorySpec
