{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~nathan1465-5 | nathan1465-5]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''Oscalation''' (''freenode'')
|-
| <|1(> '''IRC''':
| '''Oscalation''' (''oftc'')
|-
| <|1(> '''UbuntuForums''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1147168 | oscalation]]</nowiki>
|-
| <|1(> '''Location''':
| <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Carolina]]</nowiki>
|}

== About Me ==
I'm Nathan Heafner, im 25 years of age currently Living in North Carolina, USA. I  started using Linux in 2003 when my Windows computer crashed and I wanted to try Linux because it was <nowiki>[[ http:--www.gnu.org-philosophy-free-sw.html | "Free" ]]</nowiki>. I started using PClinux then Debian and puppy Linux for a while. The fact that linux was free gave me the confidence to give it a try. I had nothing else to lose.  After around 6 months of using Linux I made the full switch in 2004. I'm dedicated to expanding the Linux user-base, assisting with testing, promoting ideas on brainstorm,  and building Linux oriented skills that are relevant in the current workplace.  

== IRC ==
Usually you'll find me somewhere in these channels:
=== OFTC ===
* #ubuntu
* #debian-ubuntu

=== Freenode ===
* #ubuntu
* #ubuntu-devel
* #ubuntu-bugs
* #ubuntu-testing
* #ubuntu-docs
* #Linux

and I'm usually idling/parked in other random channels.

== Team Memberships ==
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-bugcontrol|Ubuntu Bug Control]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-photographers | Ubuntu Photographers]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-doc | Ubuntu Documentation Team]]</nowiki>

== Ubuntu Involvement ==
I have been spreading the word of Ubuntu to friends and family for the past two years and hope to expand on this. I have been a long time advocate and can account for many new users from my local community. I have been beta testing for the majority of this time for personal enrichment and with some benefits back to the community. I am heavily involved with Launchpad Answers and assisting with documentation improvements. I like to assist users on Launchpad and enjoy answering questions. My Karma is currently around 7k + and I am working towards my goal for 2012 of 14k. 

Recent Documentation Pages I've Assisted with
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuSecurityAdvice | Ubuntu Security Advice]]</nowiki> ,
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Locale | Locale]]</nowiki> , <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CheckingYourUbuntuVersion | Checking Your Ubuntu Version]]</nowiki> , 
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GettingAnswers | Getting Answers]]</nowiki>

=== Misc: ===
* learning Ruby, what a fun language
* I  partake in dogfooding http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eating_your_own_dog_food   
* Assisting users in IRC on various channels
* Knowledgeable with Wordpress, drupal, phpbb, joomla, and various other CMS's. 
* I like politics

=== Future: ===
My roadmap for the near future includes:
* Get into iso testing
* Applying for Ubuntu Membership. UPDATE. I am scheduled for an upcoming meeting!
* Increasing my involvement with the documentation team.

=== Availability ===
My availability changes often, but currently i'm generally available after 1 am EST. The best way to contact me is via email. Please use my launchpad page and use the "contact this user" link. 

=== Testimonials ===
please add your Testimonials here. 

==== Andy (ActionParsnip) ====
 This guy has been around a long time and seems very active in Ubuntu and opensource projects in general. I believe he fits Ubuntu very well.

==== Olivier Delance ====
 We are very gratefull for the work done in Launchpad. And he is of a very good help en installation issues, on which I worked also.
