{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Who am I? ===
Hello Folks, my name is Oswaldo Otero, I have many time working with GNU/Linux. Early I developed some strategies for Linux in learning environments like The Intel Computer ClubHouse, specially in Bogota, in the Computer ClubHouse Compartir. 

Then I moved to Miami, and here I am working as a Computer Programmer for a big printing company. Which BTW, is running everything in Windows, but looking forward to migrate to Linux. 

Until two months ago, I was using Debian(God know that I love Debian), but Ubuntu is awesome and I have this feeling when you find something really good and you feel that you MUST help out for a while.  

=== Quien soy? ===
Hola amigos, mi nombre es Oswaldo Otero, tengo algo de tiempo trabajando con GNU/Linux. Al principio desarrolle algunas estrategias para Linux en ambientes educativos, como el Intel Computer ClubHouse, especialmente en Bogota, en el Computer ClubHouse Compartir. 

Luego me mude a Miami, aca trabajo como Programador, para una gran compania de impresos. La cual de paso, esta corriendo todo en Windows, pero mirando una migracion a Linux.

Hasta hace dos meses, estuve usando Debian(Dios sabe que la amo), pero Ubuntu es genial y tengo ese sentimiento, cuando encuentras algo realmente bueno y sientes que debes ayudar por un tiempo. 

=== Something Cool to do ===

I found that Ubuntu, is a good OS, for integrate it into a business enviroment, home, school, etc., the only thing if that you have, something, to figure out how to do, this or that. Something really cool is to create a Ubuntu cook book, with some recipies to have some tips here. Something like:

* '''Make your Ubuntu a Media Center'''
* '''X-Mas Ubuntu'''

I don't know, this kind of stuff that could be easy for someone, but could be hard for my mon in example.

=== Algo Chevere ===

He encontrado que Ubuntu es un buen sistema operativo, sobre todo para integrar en un entorno empresarial, casa, educacion, etc., la unica cosa es que tienes que averiguar en ocasiones, como hacer esto o lo otro. Algo chevere es crear un recetario, con algunas recetas del tipo tip. Algo como

* '''Has de Ubuntu un Centro de Entretenimiento'''
* '''Ubuntu de Navidad'''

Nose, este tipo de cosas, que pueden ser faciles para alguien, pero dificiles para mi mama, por ejemplo.

Email: 