{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



I, Otto Kek채l채inen, apply for upload rights, as requested by the DMB, for the following packages which I help maintain as part of the pkg-mysql team in Debian:

* mariadb-10.0
* mariadb-client-lgpl
* galera-3

=== About Me ===

I am a long time Free and Open Source advocate (since 1999). I use and work full time with open source at Seravo Oy and the MariaDB Foundation. I've been involved with Ubuntu since 2005 as user, translator and contributor in many ways. I am also a Debian Developer.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~otto|Otto Kek채l채inen]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| https://seravo.fi/blog/
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''otto_''' on ''irc.freenode.net'' (not registered nick)
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/ottokekalainen
|-
| '''GitHub''':
| http://github.com/ottok
|}

=== My Ubuntu contributions ===

Currently most of my Debian/Ubuntu development time goes into maintaining MariaDB, MySQL and other packages in Debian and Ubuntu. I am in the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.debian.org/Teams/MySQL|pkg-mysql-maint]]</nowiki> at Debian and the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mysql-ubuntu|mysql-ubuntu team]]</nowiki> in Ubuntu.

I have a long history of various contributions to Ubuntu. First contributions (advocacy, translation) to Ubuntu already in 2005. I've maintained ubuntu.fi, published a printed Ubuntu booklet in Finnish and Finnish live-cd's that were distributed all over the country, I've organized release parties etc.

Related to packaging see:
* https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=otto%40debian.org
* commits at http://anonscm.debian.org/cgit/pkg-mysql/
* SRU to Ubuntu: http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=*Otto*Kek%C3%A4l%C3%A4inen*&sponsoree_search=name

Currenctly I am seeking PPU approval to be able to upload new versions of mariadb-10.0, galera-3 and other pkg-mysql-maint packages directly to Ubuntu when needed.

=== Other contributions ===

I've been an active open source citizen since 1999 and I have lot's of upstream contributions at many projects ranging from Ansible and the Code.org platform to WordPress core and XMBC plugins.  

=== Future Goals ===

* Keep all MariaDB and related packages up-to-date, roll-out security updates quickly, minimize regressions and enable innovation by introducing new mariadb-plugin packages and new versions of MariaDB, Connectors, Galera and others.
* Help Ubuntu stay a superior server OS that former closed source slaves flock to when migrating away from Windows, Oracle etc

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

=== Seth Arnold / Security team ===
Otto has provided the security team with mariadb updates to sponsor. His updates are accompanied with clear instructions how we should proceed, clear evidence that he's tested his work, and when he had an idea to unify the packaging among the different supported releases, he asked us if we'd be willing to include those changes in a security update. His work is careful and he's invited collaboration when it makes sense. Otto also closely follows the mariadb bug reports and is polite, thoughtful, and provides good advice to users. I recommend approving his PPU application. Thanks -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:seth-arnold]]</nowiki> 
=== Robie Basak ===
I've been working with Otto for years both as part of his work on the Debian
MySQL maintainers team, and in looking after MariaDB packaging on Ubuntu. He
does an excellent job of looking after the MariaDB and related packages in both
Debian and Ubuntu for us.

I think Otto's security maintenance of MariaDB in Ubuntu alone clearly meets
the sustained and significant contribution requirement for Ubuntu membership.
As Otto is a DD maintaining the MariaDB packaging to a high quality, I'd be happy with Otto being able to upload these packages to Ubuntu unsupervised. Otto generally fixes things in Debian and then syncs through to Ubuntu. So even though he has almost no (non-security) sponsored uploads to Ubuntu (according to the sponsorship miner anyway), I still think it would be valuable to give him things like the retry button so that I can keep less of an eye on things (spurious build failures seem to plague both MySQL and MariaDB - normally these are upstream issues). I would also value his ability to sync during freeze as necessary (with respect to the freeze criteria) without him being delayed by sponsors. Otto has been working with us for so long that I think his contributions meet the social criteria anyway.  Let's grant him Ubuntu membership and give him PPU! -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:racb]]</nowiki> 