{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~otto|Otto Kekäläinen]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''otto_''' on ''irc.freenode.net'' (not registered nick)
|-
| '''Email''':
| 
|-
| '''Blog''':
| https://seravo.fi/blog/
|-
| '''Twitter''':
| http://twitter.com/ottokekalainen
|-
| '''Google+''':
| https://plus.google.com/u/0/+OttoKekalainen/
|}

=== About Me ===

I am a long time Free and Open Source advocate. I use and work full time with open source at Seravo Oy and the MariaDB Foundation. I've been involved with Ubuntu since 2005 as user, translator and contributor in many ways. I am also a Debian Developer.

=== Things I do for Ubuntu ===

** Member of https://launchpad.net/~mysql-ubuntu
** Also active in Ubuntu marketing, Finnish translations, Ubuntu Friendly testing, Simple backup etc
** Debian Developer and by extension maintain MariaDB, Galera, Entr and a few other packages in Ubuntu Universe

=== External Stuff ===

** Country team co-cordinator for Free Software Foundation Europe
** CEO at the MariaDB Foundation, producing one of the worlds most popular databases
** CEO at Seravo Oy, an open source support service company and recently also WordPress optimized hosting and upkeep as a service (see seravo.com)
** Chariman of the board at the Finnish Unix User Foundation, funding open source projects in Finland
** Published many small open source projects myself and contributed to a was amount of existing ones e.g. Nginx, Docker, LibreOffice, Redis, git-buildpackage, KDE, Gnome etc. I've been doing open source since 1999 so the track record has more stuff than I can recall now.
