{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== Summary ===

Ubuntu needs to support as many '''modems''' as practical '''out of the box'''. 

=== Scope ===

Modems for which a reasonable driver is available (even one containing binary blobs) will be supported.

=== Design ===

* Free drivers: for soundcard-like modems compatible with the sl-modem-daemon, we will have full support. This daemon can be started with any modem, but will fail with modems not supported by the ALSA drivers library, or with copyrighted, therefore not allowed to be distributed, smartlink version of the slmodem package. Therefore not allowed to be distributed, Smarlink version for the slmodem package. Compatibility is with the ALSA library or with genuine Smartlink hardware, not with the Sl-modem-daemon. Sl-modem-daemon is not a driver.
  
* Non-free drivers: other modems typically involve a non-free kernel driver.  We will decide on these on a case-by-case basis.

Reasonable drivers use the standard kernel device detection mechanisms (hardware autodetection).  This avoids any need for unpleasant tools like "scanmodem" or Wvdialconf .

Automatic installer would be transparent for the user and would autoconfigure the modem. It could also use "<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet_over_USB|Ehternet-over-USB]]</nowiki>" to employ DHCP for easier autoconfiguration and autoconnection.

When Ethernet-over-USB would not be used, it would attempt to connect to the network using the network-manager panel icon, providing details of a suitable dialup ISP account. 

It would use <nowiki>[[http://smolts.org/wiki/Main_Page|Smolt]]</nowiki> and https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto for help and documentation about drivers.

=== References ===
* Linspire appear to have already automated some of modem configuration stuff; prod them for details. They include the Intel modem license at: http://wiki.freespire.org/index.php/Intel_Modem_Driver_License http://wiki.freespire.org/index.php/Summary_of_Proprietary_Components.
* Conexant payware driver and installer/detector: http://www.linuxant.com/drivers/
* Free drivers:
** <nowiki>[[http://www.gnewsense.org/|gNewSense, Ubuntu derivative, free drivers]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.openbsd.org/|Ports from OpenBSD]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/campaigns/free-bios.html|Free BIOS]]</nowiki>.

=== See also ===
* <nowiki>[[Outofthebox-Modem-Softmodem]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zeroconf|Zeroconf]]</nowiki>
* WiFi
* <nowiki>[[USB]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Bluetooth]]</nowiki>
* InternetConnectionSharing
----
CategoryHardware
CategoryModem
