{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



== About Me / Contact Information ==

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Real Name'''
| Ovidiu-Florin Bogdan
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ovidiub13
|-
| '''IRC'''
| ovidiu-florin
|-
| '''Email'''
| ovidiu dot b13 at gmail dot com
|-
| '''Website'''
| http://geekaliens.com
|}

== IRC Channels ==

You can find me in 

== Contributions ==

==== 2014 ====

* Launched a Kubuntu Romania website, where news and support in the romanian language are offered.
* Convinced a web developer friend to donate some of his time to create a funky looking download page for the Kubuntu Sites. It is now used on the Kubuntu Romania, and on the official Kubuntu site.
* Started working on a general, multilingual website using the Wordpress platform for use as a single Kubuntu website.
* I've created a <nowiki>[[https://mapsengine.google.com/map/edit?mid=zYpuT2LjYCLw.kig2rC4pVBg8|Kubuntu users map]]</nowiki>, where I've placed most of the users that have migrated to Kubuntu (from Windows or other Linux distros) because of me, and others have added themselves.
* Migrated all except a few computer in the administration, to Kubuntu, in a General School in my city.

==== 2013 ====

* Started to contribute on KDE translations to Romanian
* Started learning the KDE bugfix workflow
* Fixed a few bugs in Jovie (they were not reported on the bugzilla, but directly to Jerremy, the Jovie maintainer)
* Applied for GSoC with a Jovie project plan, but because I already had a job, it was not accepted.
* Contributed to fixing a minor KMail bug (https://git.reviewboard.kde.org/r/111917/)
* Participated (with funding from Kubuntu for travel and accomodation) at a <nowiki>[[http://blog.geekaliens.com/2013/11/rezolvand-probleme-la-petrecerea-de-strivit-gandaci-probleme-din-munich/|Bug Squashing Party in Munich]]</nowiki>, where I met face to face for the first time part of the Kubuntu Team, part of the Debian team, and of course the organizers, the LiMux Team.
* Started migrating different public services in my city to Open Source software (LibreOffice, Krita, and where possible Kubuntu)
* I was initiated in packaging for Kubuntu by Jonathan Riddell
* Packaged a UFW KDE KCM for Kubuntu, and communicated with the developer to fix the problems I've found in the tarball.

==== 2012 ====

* Finished migrating from the familiar GNOME apps to the KDE apps.

==== 2011 ====

* As an Ubuntu user I disliked Unity so much that I've decided to give KDE another try. I've been using Kubuntu since.

== Future Goals ==

* Migrate all the administration in my city (schools, city hall, etc) to Kubuntu.
* Become a KDE developer.
* Write a script that can be placed in the Kubuntu installer, and ask the user if he want's to be placed on the Kubuntu Users Map. If it says yes, it is asked for a name, then the location is detected and the user is added. If the name already exists, this is skipped. (moderation required)

== Testimonials ==

I have been working with Ovidiu-Florin on the migration of the Kubuntu website to Wordpress. The energy this guy has is aweseome, as well as his dedication. In a couple days we got to do some awesome stuff after the sysadmins handed us the right stuff. I can recognize his contributions are quite valuable, and would love to give him a welcome as a member soon. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jose]]</nowiki> 
Ovidiu has put impressive effort into the romanian kubuntu site and has a real passion for spreading Kubuntu into his home town.  He's now putting the same passion into make a new refreshed kubuntu.org website.  I fully support his membership.  - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jr]]</nowiki> JonathanRiddell

Ovidiu is great! Always helpful, cheerful, and not just full of good ideas, but he goes ahead and makes them happen. He'll make a great Kubuntu Member. - <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:valorie-zimmerman]]</nowiki> Valorie Zimmerman <<DateTime>>
