{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== OwenMarshall ==

=== Owen Marshall ===

Email: irixman AT gmail DOT com

Hi there! I am a 17 year old high school student in America. I have only used Ubuntu for a little while, but I have found that I really suits me well. I hope to be a frequent contributer to this Wiki.

I am new at the Wiki game, so don't yell too much if I mess up ;-)

I work as a technical support agent at the <nowiki>[[http://www.bardstown.com/|local ISP]]</nowiki> as well as dabble in programming and administration. I also do some technical writing for mozilla.org, and some <nowiki>[[http://bugzilla.mozilla.org/|bugzilla]]</nowiki> grunt work.

==== Distro Thoughts (as if anyone cares!) ====
** Redhat: This is the distro we use at work. 9.0 has no package manager, so I have frequently encountered dependency hell.
** Debian: Just too old. I struggled to get all my devices to work, and even simple tasks frustrated me.
** Gentoo: Lots of work that paid off in the end, but the Portage tree is horribly bloated and takes up too much hard disk space. Plus the compile time was horrible.
** Ubuntu: Debian, but fresher. Just Plain Awesome.

==== Random Ubuntu Thoughts ====
What is with the new Gnome splash screen? Are the people naked, or does my mind decieve me? Not to say that I am a total prude or anything, but this may get some strange looks from my family ;-)
----
CategoryHomepage CategoryHomepage
