{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== Getting Handspring Treo 90 to sync with Jpilot ===

The treo 90 uses the visor module so this "should" work with other visors. (Treo 600 is reported to work this way too)

Download and install Jpilot (see the [SynapticHowto] for installing Software).

In preferences/settings of JPilot, set the serial port to /dev/ttyUSB1. Speed is 57600.

Close JPilot

Hit the sync button on the Treo's cable.

In a Terminal type:

<pre>
ls /dev/ttyUSB*
</pre>

To make sure ttyUSB0 an ttyUSB1 are there.
''They ONLY show up there when the sync button is pushed then they go away.''

Open Jpilot. Hit the sync button on the left. It should sync.

=== How to install files on the Handspring ===

Open Jfile, go to file/install. Browse to the files you want to install and double click or hit the add button. This adds them in the "files to be installed pane". Once you've got all the files you want selected in the pane, hit done and close JPilot.

Hit the sync button on the Visor/Treo and make sure its in /dev, then open JPilot and hit the sync button. The install files window pops up with the files to be installed in the lower pane, hit done and they should sync over to the palm.

Its not elegant or as simple as it should be, but this is how I got my Treo 90 to sync finally!
[Margot Ross]

From MichaelNathan Wed Apr 6 22:59:22 +0100 2005
From: Michael Nathan
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2005 22:59:22 +0100
Subject: Treo 600 synced
Message-ID: <20050406225922+0100@https://www.ubuntulinux.org>

i just set the jpilot gui to /dev/ttyUSB1 and speed @ 57600.  Thanks for your help!

From JeffreyCo Tue May 17 14:47:58 +0100 2005
From: Jeffrey Co
Date: Tue, 17 May 2005 14:47:58 +0100
Subject: Synced, but how to work with the info on the pc?
Message-ID: <20050517144758+0100@www.ubuntulinux.org>

I have had my info on Visor PRo snynced with Ubuntu. But, taking Contacts as an example, they don't seem to work well in Evolution. I mean, the categories/fields are not matched. By the way, Contacts is in fact the only section that updated/snynced.

-----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPDA]]</nowiki>
