{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== /home ==
This is the most common mount point that people move to a different partition after they have already installed ubuntu on a single partition.  As such, there are several guides on how to make this change, including one that I have written myself.  The advice in these guides can generally be applied to moving any mount point to a separate partition.

==== Size ====
Generally, people allocate as much as they can to /home, so just allocate what you need for every other partition, and then the rest to /home.  See the section of <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace#Separate%20/home|this article]]</nowiki> on /home for more info.  Take heed to ignore the comments about the possibility of using vfat as the filesystem type for your /home.  This is incorrect advice, as /home must be on a partition type which supports permissions, like ext3.

=== Guides on moving /home to a separate partition ===
<nowiki>[[Moving|My guide on moving -home]]</nowiki>

http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome  This is the default suggestion given on IRC in #ubuntu

http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=46866

http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/01/29/move-home-to-its-own-partition/
