{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== My purchase/install failed.  How can I get more detail about the error? ==

If you would like to get more information about exactly what failed during a purchase or installation, or if you would like to provide more details for a bug report or support ticket, this explains how.  These techniques should provide plenty of detail for a developer to diagnose and fix the issue.

=== Reproducible errors ===

To see live data on what Software Center is doing, try running it from a terminal.  Open up a terminal application then run '''software-center''' .  It should display a running log of its warnings and errors in the terminal window.

When requesting help, it can be very useful to copy and paste the history of Software Center's parent window into your request.  This can give us details which aren't saved to the log.  However, you should also include the log as explained below.

=== Getting details after an error happened ===

If an error only occurred once or you otherwise cannot make it happen again, this is the best way to get data on what happened:

* Run Software Center.
* Attempt to install the failing package in Software Center.  Write down each action you take during this process, so there will be enough information to duplicate your steps exactly.
* As soon as the install fails, quit from Software Center.
* Create a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center|bug]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[Pay|support request]]</nowiki> with a description of what you were trying to do, the details of each step you took, what you expected to happen, and what happened instead.
* Attach '''~/.cache/software-center/software-center.log''' to your bug report or support request.
* Attach a copy of your receipt(s) or <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-PayHistory|purchase history]]</nowiki> to your bug or support request.

=== Additional data ===

For almost all support requests, it is helpful to include your <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Payment_ID|payment IDs]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Subscription_ID|subscription IDs]]</nowiki>.  This allows us to look up a lot more detail on your transactions.
