{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== How can I install purchases manually, on the command line? ==
Sometimes it is necessary to install purchased software without using Software Center.  This may happen because of a bug in Software Center, because you may be using a non-standard desktop, or perhaps because you just prefer the older ways of doing things on a command line.

To install a purchase manually, follow these steps:

# <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Missing_GPG_Key|Install the package's signing key.]]</nowiki>
# Get the 'deb' line for your purchase from your <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-PayHistory|subscription list]]</nowiki>.  Click the title of the application from the list; the next page should display the 'deb' line.
# Copy/paste the 'deb' line into '''/etc/apt/sources.list''' or into a new file in '''/etc/apt/sources.list.d/mypackage.list'''
# Run '''sudo apt-get update'''
# Run '''apt-cache search mypackage''' to find the exact package name.  Or, copy the package name from the deb line above.
# Run '''sudo apt-get install mypackage''' to install the software.

Alternately, you can navigate to your PPA subscription list on your profile at https://launchpad.net/ , browse to the package archives, then manually download the package files and install them with dpkg.
