{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== I installed an app but I don't know how to run it. Help? ==

The usual way of launching a program in Ubuntu is to press the 'windows' key to pull up the dash, then start typing the name of the program.  A clickable icon should be displayed below.

However, sometimes it can be difficult to find an application in the menus or the dash.  Fortunately, there are ways to find it from a command line even when it doesn't show up in the GUI.  First, try to determine the actual package name by searching the local package list for the application name:

  dpkg -l | grep -i '''appname'''
  <<BR>>
  (replace 'appname' with your application name)

Then, once you have the package name, tell the system to print out its launcher command:

  cat $(dpkg -L '''pkgname''' | grep '\.desktop$') | grep ^Exec
  <<BR>>
  (replace 'pkgname' with the package name from the previous step)

This should give you one or more lines of output which all start with '''Exec='''.  Simply copy the command after the '=' and paste it into a terminal, and your application should start up.

Here is an example session:
<pre>
user @ host> dpkg -l | grep -i bastion
ii  bastion      1.3-0ubuntu1      Experience that redefines storytelling in games

user @ host> cat $(dpkg -L bastion | grep '\.desktop$') | grep ^Exec
Exec=/opt/bastion/Bastion/bastion64.sh

user @ host> /opt/bastion/Bastion/bastion64.sh
</pre>

Depending on the package, it may also care which directory it is run from.  You may need to extract the path data from the desktop file too:

  cat $(dpkg -L '''pkgname''' | grep '\.desktop$') | grep ^Path
  <<BR>>
  Path=/opt/packagename/bin
  <<BR>>
  (replace 'pkgname' with the package name from the previous step)

Then just '''cd''' to the directory after 'Path=', and run the command from the 'Exec=' line.  This is normally not necessary, but can be helpful in some cases.
