{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Update after Ubuntu 16.04 ====
 
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Cant_buy|Why can’t I buy software in the latest Ubuntu release? (16.04)]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Old_USC_still_works|But can I still buy software with the old USC?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Cant_find_libraries|Why can’t I find libraries in the new Software Center?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Cant_find_other_software|Why can’t I find other software that should be available in the new Software Center?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Old_store_how_long|How longer will be the legacy (deb) store around?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Future_apps_bought_now|What will happen with apps I buy now?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Updated_system_apps_disappeared|I’ve updated my system and software I had bought disappeared. What can I do?]]</nowiki>

==== General ====

* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-USC_Resolve_Failed_Purchase|I tried to buy something but it failed.  What should I do?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-USC_Reinstall|How do I reinstall software I've purchased in the past?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Manual_Install|How can I install purchases manually, on the command line?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-PayHistory|Where can I view my purchases and my payment history?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Subscription_ID|How can I get my Subscription ID(s)?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Payment_ID|How can I get my Payment ID(s)?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-License_Key|Where do I get the license key for the software I purchased?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Refunds|Can I get a refund for my Software Center purchase?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-USC_OtherOSes|Can I use Software Center purchases on other distros or other OSes?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Get_debug_info|My purchase-install failed.  How can I get more detail about the error?]]</nowiki>

==== Specific issues ====

* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Find_Launcher|I installed an app but I don't know how to run it.  Help?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Bad_APT_Auth|I get HTTP 401 errors when trying to install software I bought.  How to fix it?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Missing_GPG_Key|Install requires installation of untrusted package?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-I18n_Surcharge|Why was my card charged more than the product price?]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Pay-FAQs-Cancel_Interrupted_Purchase|I had some failed attempts to make a purchase.  Could you cancel my incomplete transactions?]]</nowiki>
