{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Printing your photos is great way to share them with others.

=== Basic Procedure ===

# Double-click the photo you want to print to open it in the ''Image Viewer''
# Press '''File''' -> '''Page Setup...'''
** Under ''Format for'', select the printer which you are going to use
** Under ''Paper size'', select the size of the paper which you are going to print the photo onto
** Under ''Orientation'', choose the orientation of the photo on the paper
# Press '''Apply'''
# Press '''File''' -> '''Print...'''
# Change any settings as appropriate (see ''Printer Settings'', below)
# Press '''Print''' to print the photo

=== Printer Settings ===

You can tweak your printing settings to get the best results. All of these settings can be found in the '''File''' -> '''Print...''' window.

Make sure that you select your printer from the list on the ''General'' tab to get the full range of settings supported by your printer.

'''Note:''' Different makes of printer will have different printer settings. The settings below are only provided as a guide for what you may be able to change with your particular printer.

==== Paper Type ====

The paper type that you use has a large impact on the quality of your printed photo. You should set the paper type to match the paper which you are using in your printer to prevent poor results. Using a ''Glossy Paper'' type with only plain paper loaded into your printer will generally produce poor results, for example.

This setting may automatically change the amount of ink which is used, in order to get the best results and to prevent smudging. How this is handled will depend on your printer.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowstyle="background:#DBBA75"> '''Paper Type'''
| '''Description'''
| '''Uses'''
|-
| Plain Paper
| Standard, uncoated office paper (80gsm)
| OK for quick prints
|-
| Coated Paper
| Paper with a coating, such as a Matte paper
| Good quality prints
|-
| Glossy Paper
| Heavy, glossy paper
| Best quality prints, comparable to prints from film cameras
|-
| Transparency
| Transparent plastic (acetate)
| Overhead projection
|-
| Greeting Card
| Thick, heavy card
| Making greetings cards
|-
| Iron-On Transfer
| Special transferable paper
| T-Shirt transfers
|}

==== Print Quality ====

Print quality is generally measured in ''DPI'' (dots per inch). A greater DPI value should result in better print quality.

* Choose ''Draft'' for making quick draft prints which don't use much ink
* Choose ''Best Quality'' or ''Photo'' for making high quality prints. Printing will be slower and will use more ink

=== Advanced Photo Printing ===

For advanced printing, install the ''Photoprint'' application:

# Press '''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Terminal'''
# Type <code>sudo apt-get install photoprint</code> and press ''Return''
# Press ''Alt'' + ''F2'' to show the ''Run Application'' window
# Type ''photoprint'' into the box and press '''Run''' to start ''Photoprint''

Photoprint allows you to fine-tune your printing settings.

# Under ''Page Size'', change the page size to the size of paper that you want to print onto.
# Under ''Layout'', change the number of columns and rows to reflect the number of photos that you want to put onto a page
# To change the amount of spacing between photos, change the ''Horizontal'' and ''Vertical'' settings under ''Gutters''
# To add a photo to the page, press '''Image''' -> '''Add Image''' and select a photo
# To change the advanced printer settings, press '''File''' -> '''Print Setup...'''
** You may need to select the correct printer model on the ''Output'' tab
1. Press '''File''' -> '''Print''' to print your photos
