{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Show off your photos in all of their glory by running a slideshow! Ubuntu provides several ways to watch slideshows of photos.

== Slideshow Software ==

=== Using Shotwell Photo Manager ===
''Shotwell Photo Manager'' has a slideshow feature.
# Press '''Applications''' -> '''Graphics''' -> '''Shotwell Photo Manager''' to open Shotwell
# Press '''View''' -> '''Slideshow'''
# The slideshow will start

=== Using F-Spot Photo Manager ===

''F-Spot Photo Manager'' has a slideshow feature.

# Press '''Applications''' -> '''Graphics''' -> '''F-Spot Photo Manager''' to open F-Spot
# Select the photos that you want to appear in the slideshow
** You can select multiple photos by holding down ''Ctrl'' and clicking the photos you want to see
# Press '''View''' -> '''Slideshow'''
# The slideshow will start
** Press any key or click the mouse to exit the slideshow
** Press the ''Space'' key once to skip a photo or press it a few times to show the slideshow menu
** ''Sometimes, the space key may not work or may cause the slideshow to exit. This seems to be a bug.''

=== Using the Image Viewer ===

The ''Image Viewer'' application is capable of displaying slideshows.

1. Find a folder with some photos in it
** If you would like to watch a slideshow of ''all'' of the photos in the folder, just double-click on a single photo to open it
** If you only want to see a slideshow containing ''a selection'' of the photos in the folder, select the photos which you want to see, right-click one of them and then select '''Open with "Image Viewer"'''
1. Press '''View''' -> '''Slideshow''' to start the slideshow
** Press the ''Escape'' key to exit the slideshow
** You cannot currently skip photos

== Slideshow Wallpaper ==
=== Using Cortina ===
<nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Cortina|Cortina Wallpaper Slideshow]]</nowiki> watches the folder(s) that you specify for images and rotates them at a set interval.

== Slideshow Screensaver ==

==== Using F-Spot ====
You can use a slideshow of your photos as you screensaver.

# Press '''System''' -> '''Preferences''' -> '''Screensaver'''
# Select the ''F-Spot photos'' screensaver theme
# Photos which are tagged as ''Favorites'' in ''F-Spot Photo Manager'' will be displayed as your screensaver

If you would like to change which tag is used for the slideshow:

# Open ''F-Spot''
# Press '''Edit''' -> '''Preferences'''
# Under ''Screensaver'', select the desired tag
# Press '''Close'''
