{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


You may find that you have some photos which are the wrong way up. It's easy to rotate photos so that they're the right way up again.

# Open a photo in the ''image viewer'' by double-clicking it
# Press '''Left''' or '''Right''' to rotate the photo
# Press '''File''' -> '''Save As...''' to save the photo
# Choose a new file name and press '''Save'''

=== Using Nautilus Image Converter ===

 1. Install using sudo apt-get install nautilus-image-converter
 2. Relog in
 3. Left click image selection and choose Rotate..

=== Using F-Spot Photo Manager ===

# Open ''F-Spot Photo Manager'' and find the photo you want to rotate
# Click the photo to select it
# Press '''Rotate Left''' or '''Rotate Right''' to rotate the photo

=== Using the GIMP Image Editor ===

# Open the image in the ''GIMP Image Editor''
# Press '''Image''' -> '''Transform''' -> '''Rotate 90 degrees CW''' to rotate the image to the right (clockwise)
# Press '''Image''' -> '''Transform''' -> '''Rotate 90 degrees ACW''' to rotate the image to the left (anticlockwise)
# Press '''File''' -> '''Save As...''' to save the photo
# Choose a new file name and press '''Save'''

=== Using gThumb ===
gThumb is an easy to use image viewer which allows you to rotate some images without losing their quality (because of compression methods, rotating an image can result in a loss of quality).

# After installing gThumb, open the program and use the left pane to navigate to the directory containing your photo's.
# While holding down the '''CTRL''' key, select the images you want to rotate
# From the '''Tools''' menu, select '''Rotate'''
# Enter the rotation information either per image, or check the '''Apply to all'''

=== Using the Command Line ===

Rotating photos using the command line requires the ''imagemagick'' package to be installed.

# Press '''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Terminal''' to open the ''Terminal''
# Type one of the following commands and then press the ''Return'' key to rotate an image. Replace ''original.jpg'' with the filename of the photo you want to rotate and ''new.jpg'' with the name you want the rotated photo to have.
** <code>convert original.jpg -rotate -90 new.jpg</code> - Rotate the image to the left (anticlockwise)
** <code>convert original.jpg -rotate 90 new.jpg</code> - Rotate the image to the right (clockwise)

See the <nowiki>[[http://www.imagemagick.org/script/command-line-options.php#rotate|ImageMagick documentation]]</nowiki> for more information.
