{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

Lighttpd, sometimes pronounced "Lighty", is a secure, fast, compliant, and very flexible web-server that has been optimized for high-performance environments.  In this guide we'll cover configuring Lighttpd to use FastCGI to serve PHP scripts.

== Installation ==

Install the '''lighttpd''' from the Universe repository.

You'll also need:
* php5
* php5-cgi

== Configuration ==

The lighttpd.conf configuration file uses <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backus-Naur_form|BNF]]</nowiki> like notation which is quite different from Apache's directive configuration style.  If you're familiar with configuring web servers most of lighttpd's configuration won't come as a surprise however.

Fortunately the lighttpd package comes with a configuration file for FastCGi it just needs to be enabled.  

* To enable FastCGI open a console and enter:
<pre> 
sudo lighty-enable-mod

at the prompt type fastcgi and press <ENTER>
</pre>
This will create a symlink to <code>/etc/lighttpd/conf-available/10-fastcgi.conf</code> in <code>/etc/lighttpd/conf-enabled</code>

* Once the FastCGI configuration has been enabled lighttpd needs to be reloaded:
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/lighttpd force-reload
</pre>

If all went well Lighttpd should now be able to serve PHP files.

== Test PHP ==

To test that Lighttpd is indeed serving PHP files we'll create the common <code>info.php</code> to list PHP's configuration.

* In your favorite text editor create a new file named '''info.php''' and enter:
<pre>
<?php

phpinfo();

?>
</pre>

* Next copy the file into your <code>server.document-root</code>.
** This is <code>/var/www</code> by default.
<pre>
sudo cp info.php /var/www
</pre>

* Finally point your favorite browser to <nowiki>[[http://localhost/info.php]]</nowiki> and you should see information regarding your PHP environment.

* After you've confirmed that Lighttpd is serving PHP files it's a good idea to remove the info.php file for security reasons.

'''Note:''' this guide has been tested on Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty) and Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy).

----
