{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Someone rightly pointed out that i didn't say what the point of the proxy is -
<<BR>>A caching proxy can be useful for slow or high latency connections, allowing you to download a file once, but view it multiple times. The images that make up a websites UI, or advertising (unless you <nowiki>[[Privoxy| remove it]]</nowiki>) all takes bandwidth to download. In the case of Advertising, for no benefit to you.

Polipo even has this funky little option for you:
<<BR>># Uncomment this if you have no network:
<<BR>># proxyOffline = yes
<<BR>>Offline mode!

== Installing and setting up polipo ==

Misc notes:

When I say "vi", feel free to use any other editor instead (such as emacs or nano). For a GUI editor, run gksudo gedit or kdesudo kate.

This assumes your setting polipo up for use on a gateway- if your setting it up on a stand alone pc, change all references to `192.168.0.1` to your loopback ip, or your ethernet ports ip (either will work).

=== Lets get started ===

First, start out by making sure you have universe enabled, up to date package lists and downloading the polipo package (it has no dependancies).
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install polipo
</pre>

Now to edit the polipo config file. This is found in `/etc/polipo/config`, and by default is the only file there to configure.

Now I'm going to list the required changes to the config file - all 2 of them!. Remember to customise these as required :).
Its also worth noting that theres lots of other options to play with, and you should feel free. these are just the 2 you need to change to get going.

<pre>

proxyAddress = 192.168.0.1

allowedClients = 192.168.0.0/24
</pre>

Restart the service, and we are done!
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/polipo restart
</pre>

=== Now for client config! ===

==== First things first - APT. ====
This one is stupidly easy -
Open a terminal, and type the following (it creates a blank file)
<pre>
sudo vi /etc/apt/apt.conf
</pre>

In the file, add
<pre>
Acquire::http::Proxy "http://192.168.0.1:8123";
</pre>
as the only line.

==== Firefox: ====
Open the browser, click Edit -> Preferences.
Click the 'connection settings' button, and click on 'manual proxy configuration'. In the top field add the following:
<pre>
HTTP Proxy:    192.168.0.1        Port:    8123
</pre>
PS, if you go and <nowiki>[[Privoxy| set up privoxy]]</nowiki> as well, this port is changed. One step at a time though!

==== GNOME: ====
Click System -> Preferences -> network proxy.
Click Manual proxy configuration, and put in the same details as above :
<pre>
HTTP Proxy:    192.168.0.1        Port:    8123
</pre>
Log out and in to apply GNOME settings, and your done!
----
