{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Windows Mobile ==

Users of Windows Mobile 6, Windows Mobile 5, Windows Mobile 2003 and PocketPC can sync Contacts, Calendar, Tasks and Files.

== Windows Mobile 5, 6, 6.1 ==

The <nowiki>[[http://www.synce.org| Synce]]</nowiki> project enables USB sync with your device under Hardy, Intrepid and Jaunty. Full <nowiki>[[http://www.synce.org/moin/SynceInstallation/Ubuntu/ModernDevice|instructions including repository and download information]]</nowiki> can be found on the <nowiki>[[http://www.synce.org/moin/FrontPage|Synce wiki]]</nowiki>. There are a number of steps which must be followed exactly in order to set up a partnership between Ubuntu and your device. See their site for full details. There are several specific options you must choose for your specifc setup, so read carefully.

The Synce utilities work with both Gnome (using Evolution) and KDE (using Kontact).

==== Additional Functionality of the Synce Utilities ====

While no GUI has yet been developed, many of the basic functions of interface with the Windows Mobile 5 & 6 file system have been coded and may be used from the command line.

Usage is "synce-pcode" (substitute pcode for one of the specific examples below)
<pre>
* pcp     Copy files
* pls     List directory contents
* pmkdir  Make directory
* pmv     Move (rename) files
* prm     Remove file
* prmdir  Remove an empty directory
* prun    Run a program
* pstatus Display battery and storage space status about your device
</pre>
Additionally, use 

<pre>
synce-install-cab
</pre>
      to install a .cab file on your mobile device. 

== Direct Access Your Windows Mobile 5 or 6 SD card ==

Ubuntu does not currently support browsing a device's storage card directly. Until that support comes, there are possible solutions:
* Usually WM6 will refer to your storage card as "Storage Card" in the \ directory.  A file is successfully copied referring to this file path:
<pre>
x@x:~/synce-gnome-0.11$ synce-pcp -d 3 ~/Desktop/floss0138.mp3 ":/Storage Card/floss0138.mp3"
* * Message: Hal reports no devices connected
File copy of 25515199 bytes took 1 minutes and 30 seconds, that's 283502 bytes/s
</pre>
* Using Windows Mobile 6's USB storage mode
* Using a storage device that your computer can also read, such an an SD card (if your computer has a card reader) or Sandisk's SD+USB for file transfer.
The program <nowiki>[[http://freewareppc.com/communication/wm5torage.shtml|WM5torage]]</nowiki> (freely available) can be installed on your WM6 device, and upon connection with a computer your memory card is then mounted as a removable drive.

== Sync with an Online Calendar ==

It is also possible to sync your WM6 calendar with an online calendar system, such as google calendar. The program OggSync does this for free, if you only have one category in your calendar. For syncing of more categories, you will have to buy the Pro version.

Google has recently released [[http://www.google.com/mobile/default/sync.html][mobile synchronising software]]. It claims to synchronise contacts and calendar events via Exchange ActiveSync. You can currently utilise the GCALDaemon software to synchronise Gmail contacts and google calendar events with ubuntu software such as kontact and evolution. In this way you can perform a three-way sync wirelessly - although you may incur a data charge for the mobile sync. For the future, there appears to be some development using akonadi to synchronise ubuntu with google.

(Bluetooth? Wi-Fi?)

== Connecting to an Windows Mobile 2003 or PocketPC Device ==

Plug in the device via the included USB cable.

* Install the '''synce-dccm''', '''synce-serial''' and '''librra0-tools''' packages. To sync with Evolution, you'll also need the '''multisync''', '''synce-multisync-plugin''', '''libmultisync-plugin-evolution''' and '''libmultisync-plugin-backup''' packages. See <nowiki>[[InstallingSoftware|Installing Software]]</nowiki>. The packages installer will ask various questions about how to connect to your device:
** Leave the serial interface as "/dev/ttyUSB0"
** Leave the default local IP address "192.168.131.102"
** Leave the default remote IP address "192.168.131.201"
** Set the IP address of your DNS server to "192.168.0.1"

* Make sure ports 5678, 5679 and 990 are not blocked by a firewall
* Click '''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Terminal'''. In the Terminal window, run:
<pre>
    dccm
    sudo synce-serial-start
  </pre>
  Depending on your device you may have to run the sudo synce-serial-start command within a few seconds of powering the Windows Mobile device on. The computer should now show: <code> synce-serial-start is now waiting for your device to connect</code>. The Windows Mobile Device should appear connected, in a similar way to when connected via ActiveSync on Windows.

== Synchronizing with Evolution ==

* Click '''Applications''' -> '''Accessories''' -> '''Multisync'''
** Click '''New'''
*** First plugin: SynCE Plugin

*** Second plugin: Ximian Evolution 2

*** Display Name: <whatever you what to call it>

*** Data types to synchronize: Calendar + Addressbook + Tasks

* to disconnect the Windows Mobile device:

*** Shutdown Multisync

*** "killall -HUP dccm" to kill the serial connection.

*** As a last resort, run "synce-serial-abort", if the above command doesn't work.

== Troubleshooting ==
* If you  forget to run "dccm" before synce-serial-start, power off the pocket pc  and run 
    <pre>
      sudo rmmod ipaq
      sudo rmmod ehci_hcd
      sudo rmmod uhci_hcd
      sudo rmmod usbserial
    </pre>

Note: these must be run in a certain order, try a different order if it doesn't work.

* If syncronisation still doesn't work, close multisync and then run
    <pre>
      synce-matchmaker create 1
    </pre>
   If 1 doesn't work, try 2.

* If synce-serial-start is unable to find the file /etc/ppp/peers/synce-device then run the following and re-try
    <pre>
      sudo synce-serial-config ttyUSB0
    </pre>

== Wireless Modem ==

I have successfully used my XDA Exec as a wireless modem with my Laptop. This is how I got it to work(roughly) :

1. Start the Windows Mobile device in the wireless modem mode from Start-> Programs -> Wireless Modem

2. Now connect the USB cable to the computer.

3. In a Terminal, run
<pre>
wvdialconf
</pre> to see if it detects it as a modem. If this doesn't work, edit the "/etc/wvdial.conf" file as follows:

[Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Baud = 115200
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Carrier Check = no
Stupid Mode = no
Phone = *99#
Username = ''
Password = ''
New PPPD = yes
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem

6. Now type "wvdial" in the command prompt, it should now connect.

== Compatibilty ==
Devices that are known to work with this howto: 
* HP iPaq hx4150
* HP iPaq rx3115
* HP iPaq h2215/h2210
* HP iPaq h1940
* HP iPaq h1930
* HP iPaq hw6915
* DELL Axim X3i & X30 & X50v
* XDA IIs
* i-mate JAM [windows ce 2003]
* Acer n50 Premium
* Samsung SPH-i700
* i-mate JAQ
* T-Mobile Dash (WM6)
* please add your devices to this list if it works for you
== Troubleshooting ==

To check your Windows Mobile Device has been detected, click '''System''' -> '''Administration''' -> '''System Log''', then select '''messages'''. 
Alternatively, run <code>dmesg</code> in a terminal.

The results should look like the following:

<pre>
    [4312964.212000] usb 5-3.4: new full speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 3
    [4312966.410000] usbcore: registered new driver usbserial
    [4312966.416000] drivers/usb/serial/usb-serial.c: USB Serial support registered for Generic
    [4312966.419000] usbcore: registered new driver usbserial_generic
    [4312966.419000] drivers/usb/serial/usb-serial.c: USB Serial Driver core v2.0
    [4312966.439000] drivers/usb/serial/usb-serial.c: USB Serial support registered for PocketPC PDA
    [4312966.439000] drivers/usb/serial/ipaq.c: USB PocketPC PDA driver v0.5
    [4312966.443000] ipaq 5-3.4:1.0: PocketPC PDA converter detected
    [4312966.445000] usb 5-3.4: PocketPC PDA converter now attached to ttyUSB0
    [4312966.445000] usbcore: registered new driver ipaq
</pre>

== Comment ==
1- STOP sl-modem-daemon : 
<pre>
PocketPC PDA ttyUSB1: PocketPC PDA converter now disconnected from ttyUSB1
ipaq 2-1:1.0: device disconnected
</pre>
2- Show "Resync" button:
from multisync options > show "Resync" button 
than use it to do sync it work with me like that
3-change the option on Ximian Evolution 2 -optional-
to use address contact task from Evolution.

== See also ==
* <nowiki>[[http://multisync.sourceforge.net/|MultiSync]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wm5torage.en.softonic.com/windowsmobile|WM5torage]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://oggsync.com/|OggSync]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=30936|HOWTO: Pocket PC Syncing with Evolution]]</nowiki>
----
CategoryHardware <nowiki>[[CategoryPDA]]</nowiki>
