{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== VNIA COM106 portable MP3 player & flash drive ==

Works well with Ubuntu 7.10 out of the box (see note 1 below).

'''Hardware details'''

Connects to PC via USB 2.0.

Unit is very cheap MP3 player utilising SD card for storage.

* MP3/WMA digital audio player
* SD card reader
* Built-in FM tuner
* LCD screen display
* Blue LED backlight
* Five preset EQ modes: Popular, Classic, Normal, Rock & Jazz
* Three play modes: Normal, Repeat 1 & Repeat all
* Auto-power off function
* USB 2.0
* Power: AAA battery

''' SD card reformat '''

If you ever need to, use the following:
mkdosfs -v -n "label" -F 16 /dev/sdXX  ### Also add "-c" to check for bad blocks - but this is much slower ### 

where sdXX will depend on your hardware config. Use SYSTEM=>Preferences=>Hardware Information to find its device name. It should be something like sda1.

''Note 1: '' If you encounter I/O errors when transferring large volumes of data to or from the unit check to see if the unit has been formatted to FAT32. To do this use the following command in a terminal window:
dosfsck /dev/sda1

If it is FAT32 then reformat to FAT16 as described above. The unit I received (new) was pre-formatted to FAT32 and had inconsistencies between the two File Allocation Tables.    

'''Other device names'''

Device is also marketed as Olin OM106

Hardware information reports manufacturer as:
"AVID Electronics Corp"
and device name as: "flash drive with MP3 Player"
