{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Nokia Internet Tablets ==
This information generally applies to 770, n800 and n810 Nokia Internet Tablets.

* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.maemo.org/Updating_the_tablet_firmware#Flashing_on_Linux|HOWTO Flash Latest Nokia Image With Linux]]</nowiki> - including Diablo. Make sure you backup first!
* <nowiki>[[http://www.internettablettalk.com/wiki/index.php?title=Networking:How_to_log_into_a_linux_pc_with_the_internet_tablet_using_VNC_and_SSH|Accessing a Linux desktop with a Nokia tablet]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://geekpenguin.blogspot.com/2008/01/pyflash-take-two.html|PyFlash]]</nowiki>, a packaged utility to flash your Nokia devices

=== Development ===
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxuk.org/node/38|Installing Maemo's Diablo SDK under Ubuntu Hardy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxuk.blogspot.com/2008/01/installing-os2008-development.html|Installing the OS2008 Development Environment in Ubuntu]]</nowiki>

=== Video encoding ===
* <nowiki>[[http://internettablettalk.com/wiki/index.php?title=Multimedia:Details_of_Supported_Audio_and_Video_Formats|Supported audio and video formats]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.maemo.org/Video_encoding|at Maemo's wiki]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.internettablettalk.com/wiki/index.php?title=Multimedia:Converting_videos_to_Nokia_770_format|at InternetTabletTalk]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://mediautils.garage.maemo.org/tablet-encode.html|Tablet Encode]]</nowiki>, a simple script (and GUI) to encode videos in Ubuntu - requires mencoder
* <nowiki>[[http://iriverter.thestaticvoid.org/|iRiverter]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.internettablettalk.com/forums/showthread.php?t=5263|discussion]]</nowiki>

=== Audio streaming ===
SlimServer is a cross-platform streaming server that supports a wide range of formats, including AAC, AIFF, FLAC, Ogg Vorbis, MP3, WAV, and WMA. Although it was developed to stream music files to Slim Devices' Squeezebox range of hardware players, it works perfectly with any software MP3 player capable of working with network streams. 

Audio can be streamed to any N810, N800 or 770 tablet from an Ubuntu system running Slimserver. The <code>slimserver</code> package is a standard package in Ubuntu since Edgy, just use Synaptic to install it. See more details on <nowiki>[[http://wiki.slimdevices.com/index.php/SlimserverAndNokia770|SlimDevices.com wiki]]</nowiki>.

=== Security ===
* File encryption using <nowiki>[[http://www.internettablettalk.com/forums/showthread.php?t=9578|bcrypt and ccrypt]]</nowiki>

== Nokia Mobile Phones ==

* All models
*** <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NokiaEvolutionSyncing|Nokia to Evolution syncing]]</nowiki>
*** GnokiiSync - SMS sending, contact backup and calendaring.
* Nokia n73
*** Bluetooth file transfer works in both direction.
*** Connects to Internet through bluetooth to Ubuntu computer<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471441|HOWTO]]</nowiki>
* Nokia E63, E70, E71, E90, N70, 6300 - now properly automatically detected for use with NetworkManager as dialup modems, since Ubuntu 8.10.
* Nokia N95
*** <nowiki>[[http://myrtti.fi/blog/2008/10/06/howto-symbian60v3-nokia-n95-sip-and-ekiganet/|HOWTO: Symbian60v3 (Nokia N95), SIP and ekiga.net]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Nokia 9300]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[syncnokia6230iwammu|Sync the Nokia 6230i with Ubuntu 8.04 and wammu.]]</nowiki>
