{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Sirius Stiletto 100 ==

The Sirius Stiletto 100 is a Media Transfer Protocol ("MTP") device that is compatible with Ubuntu and MP3 files that are created with the Ubuntu RestrictedFormats packages.

This document describes the method for connecting a Stiletto 100 portable music player to an Ubuntu computer.

=== Step 1: Firmware Upgrade ===

First, check the firmware revision in the Stiletto 100.

** Push the '''home''' button.
** Choose '''Settings''' from the main menu.
** Choose '''Device''' from the Settings menu.
** Choose '''Device Info''' from the Device Settings menu.
** Note the ZAP and OS version numbers.

If the ZAP or OS version numbers are less than 1.1.0.43757 then you must upgrade the Stiletto 100 firmware.

Upgrade the firmware on the Stiletto 100 by connecting it to a computer with the My Sirius Studio software or by enabling the Internet Radio feature and connecting it directly to the Internet.  Review the Stiletto 100 manual for specific firmware upgrade instructions.

=== Step 2: Install the Rhythmbox Music Player ===

** Click '''Applications''' from the main desktop panel.
** Choose '''Add/Remove Applications''' from the menu.
** Choose '''Sound and Video''' in the left pane.
** Check '''Rhythmbox Music Player''' in the right pane.
** Click the ''''Apply Changes''' button.

Close the Add/Remove Applications window if Rhythymbox is already installed on the computer.

=== Step 3: Enable the MTP Plugin for Rhythmbox ===

** Click '''Applications''' from the main desktop panel.
** Choose '''Sound and Video''' from the menu.
** Choose '''Rhythymbox Music Player''' from the submenu.
** Rhythymbox will start and the '''Music Player''' window will open.
** Click the '''Edit''' pulldown menu in the Music Player window.
** Choose '''Plugins...''' from the Edit pulldown menu and the '''Configure Plugins''' dialog will open.
** Find '''Portable Players - MTP''' in the list and enable it.
** Click the '''Close''' button.
** Close the Music Player window.

=== Step 4: Attach the Stiletto 100 to the computer. ===

** Connect the Stiletto 100 to the Ubuntu computer with an appropriate USB cable.
** Rhythymbox should automatically start and detect the Stiletto 100.

=== External Resources ===

** <nowiki>[[http://www.sirius.com/stiletto/|Stiletto 100]]</nowiki> product details page.
** <nowiki>[[http://download.sirius.speedera.net/stiletto/sl100_mss_1.4.0.27731.zip|My Sirius Studio 1.4]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.sirius.com/pdf/manuals/mysiriusstudiomanual_sl100.pdf|My Sirius Studio For Stiletto 100 Manual]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.sirius.com/gs/stiletto/mainpage.html|Stiletto 100 FAQ]]</nowiki>.

=== Troubleshooting Notes ===

** Hard-reset the Stiletto 100 by holding the power button while the device goes to sleep.  Alternatively, remove the Stiletto 100 battery and wait 60 seconds.

** You must upgrade the Stiletto 100 firmware if the mtp-detect utility fails with this error:

<pre>
$ mtp-detect 
libmtp version: 0.2.1

Attempting to connect device(s)
Potential MTP Device with VendorID:18f6 and ProductID:0102 responded to control message 2 with a response that was too short. Problems may arrise but continuing
PTP: Opening session
PTP_ERROR_IO: Trying again after resetting USB
PTP: Opening session
LIBMTP PANIC: Could not open session! (Return code 767)
  Try to reset the device.
LIBMTP PANIC: configure_usb_devices() error code: 7 on line 1806
Detect: There has been an error connecting. Exiting
PTP: Opening session
PTP_ERROR_IO: Trying again after resetting USB
PTP: Opening session
LIBMTP PANIC: Could not open session! (Return code 767)
  Try to reset the device.
LIBMTP PANIC: configure_usb_devices() error code: 7 on line 1806
Detect: There has been an error connecting. Exiting
</pre>

** The Stiletto 100 firmware is generally buggy.  Reset and erase the Stiletto 100 from the built-in Device Settings menu if you have ongoing compatibility problems.

** The proprietary Stiletto 100 USB cable is fragile.  Use the Stiletto dock or replace the USB cable if your computer has problems recognizing the the Stiletto 100.

** Recent Stiletto 100 firmware upgrades contain DRM fixes that will prevent you from extracting "loved" ePAC files or using the Stiletto 100 as general storage.
