{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__


== Introduction ==

tumgreyspf is an external policy checker for the postfix mail server. It can optionally greylist and/or use spfquery to check SPF records to determine if email should be accepted by your server.

tumgreyspf is:

* fast, because it uses file-system as it's database
* simple, it is written in <nowiki>[[Python]]</nowiki> and doesn't run as a daemon, all needed to run it is a line in crontab
* currently well maintaned, latest release (Version 1.33) dates Jul 20, 2008

Visit <nowiki>[[http://www.tummy.com/Community/software/tumgreyspf/ | tumgreyspf homepage]]</nowiki> to find out more.

== Installation ==

Just use your favorite package manager and install `tumgreyspf`. For example:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install tumgreyspf
</pre>
After what you need to tell Postfix to use it. Just run:
<pre>
/usr/lib/tumgreyspf/tumgreyspf-install
</pre>

`tumgreyspf-install` script will automatically add most necessary rules in main.cf and master.cf 

Modify /etc/postfix/master.cf and change the line
 user=nobody argv=/usr/lib/tumgreyspf/tumgreyspf 
to 
 user=tumgreyspf argv=/usr/bin/tumgreyspf

Restart postfix
<pre>
/etc/init.d/postfix restart
</pre>

== Configuration ==

Edit `/etc/tumgreyspf/tumgreyspf.conf`

That's all!
