{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== Introduction ==

This page is an overview of power management for Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala and later. This page is for people who wish to understand how the various power management tools fit together, how to maximize your battery life, and how to get sleep and hibernate working.

* <nowiki>[[PowerManagement-Overview|Overview]]</nowiki>: An overview of various terminology and packages required to get power management working.
* <nowiki>[[PowerManagement-ReducedPower|Reduced Power]]</nowiki>: A guide to reducing the power consumption of your computer.
* <nowiki>[[PowerManagement-Sleep|Sleep]]</nowiki>: A guide to sleeping your computer (suspend to RAM).
* <nowiki>[[PowerManagement-Hibernate|Hibernate]]</nowiki>: A guide to hibernating your computer (suspend to disk).
* <nowiki>[[PowerManagement-Events|Events]]</nowiki>: A guide to configuring the Gnome Power Manager and ACPI events (laptop lid close, power unplug, etc). 

== See Also ==

* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerManagement
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/power-management-in-Ubuntu
* https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReducedPowerUsage
* http://wiki.debian.org/Suspend - This page gathers bits of information about getting software suspend to work in Debian
* <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/81/|Ubuntu Brainstorm - Power Management]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/94|Ubuntu Brainstorm - Fix Suspend and Hibernate]]</nowiki>
