{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



Ubuntu 12.04 LTS is the version of the Ubuntu operating system released on April 26th, 2012. The common name given to this release is “Precise Pangolin”.

== Before You Start ==

* You can directly upgrade to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (“Precise Pangolin”) from Ubuntu 11.10 (“Oneiric Ocelot”) or 10.04 LTS (“Lucid Lynx”).
* Be sure that you have all updates applied to your current version of Ubuntu before you upgrade.
* Be sure your system is in a stable state. This includes:
** Sufficient free disk space (df -h, df-i) (disk space requirements unknown)
** Ability to reboot the system without manual intervention
** Clear out unnecessarily old linux-image kernels
* Before upgrading it is recommended that you read the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/12.04|release notes]]</nowiki> for Ubuntu 12.04 LTS, which document caveats and workarounds for known issues in this version.

If you have a version of Ubuntu other than 10.04 LTS or 11.10, please see <nowiki>[[UpgradeNotes]]</nowiki> for information on how to upgrade.

== Upgrade from 11.10 to 12.04 LTS and 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS ==

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Desktops 11.10 to 12.04 LTS (Recommended) ===

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Run the '''Update Manager''' application from the '''Unity Dash'''
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings…''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Check the “'''Release upgrade''' - Show new distribution releases” drop down to make sure “'''Normal releases'''” is selected, and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and press '''Check''' again after that is complete.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Desktops 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS (Recommended) ===

Note that the page under https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop#Upgrading_from_Ubuntu_10.04_LTS_to_Ubuntu_12.04_LTS says: “It is generally recommended that users of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS wait until the first point release, due in August, before upgrading.” Follow the instructions there if you want to upgrade earlier since the following instructions will probably not work until then.

You can easily upgrade over the network with the following procedure.
# Open the '''Update Manager''' application from the '''System''' ▸ '''Administration''' menu.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Settings…''' button, and enter your password to start the Software Sources application.
# Select the sub menu '''Updates''' from the Software Sources application.
# Check the “'''Release upgrade''' - Show new distribution releases” drop down to make sure “'''Long term support releases only'''” is selected, and change it if otherwise.
# Close the Software Sources application and return to Update Manager.
# In Update Manager, click the '''Check''' button to check for new updates.
# If there are any updates to install, use the '''Install Updates''' button to install them, and press '''Check''' again after that is complete.
# A message will appear informing you of the availability of the new release.
# Click '''Upgrade'''.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

=== Network Upgrade for Kubuntu Desktops (Recommended) ===

Direct upgrades to Kubuntu 12.04 LTS are supported from Kubuntu 11.10 and 10.04 LTS only.

* <nowiki>[[PreciseUpgrades-Kubuntu|Upgrade Kubuntu 11.10 to 12.04 LTS]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[PreciseUpgrades-Kubuntu-10.04LTS|Upgrade Kubuntu 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS]]</nowiki>

=== Network Upgrade for Ubuntu Servers (Recommended) ===

1. Install `update-manager-core` if it is not already installed: <pre>
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
</pre>
# If and only if upgrading from an LTS release, then edit <code>/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades</code> and set <code>Prompt=lts</code>
# Launch the upgrade tool: <pre>
do-release-upgrade
</pre>
1. Follow the on-screen instructions.

Note that if you’re upgrading from 10.04 LTS, `do-release-upgrade` will complain “No new release found” until 12.04.1 is released.  To force an upgrade, use the `-d` option.  See <nowiki>[[http://askubuntu.com/questions/125392/no-new-release-found-when-upgrading-a-from-10-04-lts-to-12-04-lts|Ask Ubuntu]]</nowiki> for more information. 

If you are not upgrading from an LTS release, `Prompt=lts` in the `release-upgrades` configuration file will fail to find an upgrade, as it requires than both the original and the new releases be LTS.  You can change to `Prompt=lts` after a successful upgrade if you wish to stick to LTS in future.

== Upgrading Using the Alternate CD/DVD ==

Use this method if the system being upgraded is not connected to the Internet.  Note however that this method is not guaranteed to completely upgrade all packages installed on your system.

# Download the '''alternate''' installation CD from http://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/
# <nowiki>[[BurningIsoHowto#InUbuntu|Burn the ISO to a CD]]</nowiki> and insert it into the CD-ROM drive of the computer to be upgraded.
** If the ISO file is on the computer to be upgraded, you could avoid wasting a CD by <nowiki>[[ManageDiscImages#MountISOFiles|mounting the ISO as a drive]]</nowiki> with a command like (please make sure that the path to the iso file in the second command reflects where you file is located in your computer, also the Desktop folder may have a different name if you are using Ubuntu in a language different than English): <pre>
sudo mkdir -p "/media/THE EXACT NAME OF THE CD GOES HERE"
sudo mount -o loop ~/Desktop/ubuntu-12.04-alternate-i386.iso "/media/THE EXACT NAME OF THE CD GOES HERE"
</pre>
# A dialog will be displayed offering you the opportunity to upgrade using that CD.
# Follow the on-screen instructions.

If the upgrade dialog is not displayed for any reason, you may also run the following command using `Alt+F2`: <pre>
gksu "sh '/media/THE EXACT NAME OF THE CD GOES HERE/cdromupgrade'"
</pre>

Or in Kubuntu run the following command using `Alt+F2`: <pre>
kdesudo "sh '/media/THE EXACT NAME OF THE CD GOES HERE/cdromupgrade'"
</pre>

== Upgrading from a Torrent ==
If you’re familiar with <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent_(protocol)|torrents]]</nowiki> and have an ISP that doesn’t limit them, you can download the upgrade much more quickly.  You’ll also be sharing your bandwidth with other Ubuntu users and helping to reduce the load on the servers, which is especially beneficial on release days when the server overload causes problems.

Just visit http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/, and download the appropriate torrent file for the '''alternate''' installation CD, found in the list towards the bottom of the page.  (It will have a filename like `ubuntu-12.04-alternate-i386.iso.torrent`.)  Load it into your BitTorrent client, and after it is done downloading the ISO, follow the <nowiki>[[#AlternateUpgrade|alternate CD upgrade instructions]]</nowiki>.

<nowiki>[[http://ptcbus.blogspot.com/2008/04/upgrading-from-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html|Detailed instructions in a blog post]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4784633#post4784633|in a forum thread]]</nowiki>.

== See Also ==
* UpgradeNotes for all supported versions of Ubuntu

== Troubleshooting ==

See the <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/12.04|release notes]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryUpgrade
