{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



== Introduction ==
Brief description of items in the '''System''' -> '''Preferences''' menu.

=== List of Preferences applications ===

* '''About Me''' - Enter personal information.
* '''Appearance''' - Change the theme, fonts, desktop wallpaper, and visual effects. (eg, Compiz).
* '''Assistive Technology Preferences''' - Enable and configure features like the Screen reader, magnifier and on-screen keyboard.
* '''Bluetooth''' - Configure Ubuntu to sync with a Bluetooth Device.
* '''Default Printer''' - Set as PDF, but can be changed to printer.
* '''Encryption and Keyrings''' - Keeps track of passwords, and GPG keys.
* '''Keyboard''' - Configure Keyboard features, including accessibility features.
* '''Keyboard Shortcuts''' - Configure certain keys for certain behaviors (also enables putting those ideological keys to good use).
* '''Main Menu''' - Configure the default menus.
* '''Mouse''' - Configure the settings for your mouse.
* '''Network Proxy''' - Set up information for your proxy server.
* '''<nowiki>[[http://live.gnome.org/GnomePilot|PalmOS Devices]]</nowiki>''' - Configure your Palm device (see also: gnome-pilot applet and <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PalmDeviceSetup|Palm Device Setup and Syncing]]</nowiki>).
* '''Power Management''' - Configure power features, including what your machine does when you hit the power button.
* '''Preferred Applications''' - Set default Web Browser, Mail application and Terminal.
* '''Remote Desktop''' - Allow other people to see your desktop
* '''Removable Drives and Media''' - Configure what your device does when, for example, you insert a disk or pendrive.  Also adjust settings for all sorts of devices.
* '''Screen Resolution''' - Set screen resolution, refresh rate and rotation.
* '''Screensaver''' - Choose a screensaver and set idle time to activate it.  You can also set your machine to lock after a time, so you have to enter a password to exit the screensaver.  To lock your screen manually, press '''Ctrl'''-'''Alt'''-'''L'''. You can also set power saving features here.
* '''Sessions''' - Primarily for adding and removing startup applications (see also <nowiki>[[http://www.marzocca.net/linux/bum.html|'BUM']]</nowiki>).
* '''Sound''' - Configure sound and set sounds for system events.
* '''Windows''' - Action to perform when double-clicking titlebar, and other settings.

----
* '''Contributors:''' DuncanLithgow Hellow perlluver
----
CategorySystem CategorySoftware
