{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <rowbgcolor="#FFF280"> {i} This page is part of the UserDocumentation series of index pages.  Please read the WikiGuide prior to making changes.
|}

If you are looking to purchase a new printer find out if it is free software compatible. A "Linux compatible" printer can be more problematic than a free software compatible printer as manufacturers have refused to cooperate with the community on support.

Resources:

** <nowiki>[[http://www.fsf.org/resources/hw/printers| List of recommended printers]]</nowiki> from the free software foundation (currently unmaintained).
** <nowiki>[[http://linuxdeal.com/printers.php| Linux Deal]]</nowiki> Browse Linux-compatible printers.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.thinkpenguin.com/catalog/printer-all-one| ThinkPenguin.com]]</nowiki> sells only free software compatible hardware (including printers).
** <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxprinting.org|LinuxPrinting.org]]</nowiki> offers an extensive list of "Linux compatible" printers. Some printers in this list with free drivers are not completely free as they require a non-free plug-in to be fully functional.
** <nowiki>[[http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/supported_devices/combined.html| HP]]</nowiki> provides a list of printers and indicates free software compatibility.

== Supported Printers ==

* <nowiki>[[Ubuntu:HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters|Printers in Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Reports of printer functionality in Ubuntu. This list contains both free and non-free software dependent printers. Many of the listed non-free software dependent printers do not work with newer editions of Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[http://linuxdeal.com/printers.php| Linux Printers]]</nowiki> - Read through Linux user reviews and <nowiki>[[http://linuxdeal.com/add-printer.php| add your own printer review]]</nowiki>.

== Manufacturer-Specific Installation ==

Many of these printer manufacturers require non-free drivers or plug-ins. HP has the largest selection of free software compatible printers. Some of the higher end laser machines from other manufacturers are at least partially free software compatible.

* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-BrotherPrinters|Brother Printers]]</nowiki> - Install Brother printer drivers and utilities.
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-CanonPrinters|Canon Printers]]</nowiki> - Install Canon printers using Canon tools.
* <nowiki>[[HPPrinterInstallation|HP Printer]]</nowiki> - Install and maintain HP printers using HP tools.
* <nowiki>[[HpAllInOne| HP All-in-One Printers]]</nowiki> - Setup HP Print/Scan/Copy printers using HP tools.
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-LexmarkPrinters|Lexmark Printers]]</nowiki> - Install Lexmark laser printers using Lexmark tools. Some Lexmark Printers are paperweights in Ubuntu, though virtually all of the better models support PostScript and work very well.  Take care buying low end printers (of any brand).
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-LexmarkMultifuncPrinters|Lexmark Multifunction Printers]]</nowiki> - Install Lexmark multi-function inkjet printers (x1000-series) using Lexmark drivers.
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-SamsungPrinters|Samsung Printers]]</nowiki> - Install Samsung printers using Samsung tools.
* <nowiki>[[HardwareSupportComponentsPrinters-XeroxPrinters|Xerox Printers]]</nowiki> - Install Xerox printers using Xerox tools.
* <nowiki>[[KONICA MINOLTA 1690MF | The KONICA MINOLTA 1690MF]]</nowiki>

== Sharing Printers ==

* <nowiki>[[NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu| Printer Sharing With Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Setup an Ubuntu print server for attached printers, print to it from other Ubuntu or Windows clients. For HP network printers on recent Ubuntu versions, see <nowiki>[[HpAllInOne| HP All-in-One Printers]]</nowiki>.
* <nowiki>[[NetwarePrintingFromUbuntu| Netware Printing From Ubuntu]]</nowiki> - Print to a Netware Printer Queue from Ubuntu.
* <nowiki>[[WindowsXPPrinter| Network Printing to Windows XP]]</nowiki> - Print to a Windows print server from Ubuntu clients.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkPrintingFromWinXP| Network Printing From Windows XP]]</nowiki> - Setup CUPS on Ubuntu so Windows XP clients can print to it.
* <nowiki>[[NetworkPrintingFromMacOSX| Network Printing From Mac OSX]]</nowiki> - Setup CUPS on MacOSX  clients to print to a Ubuntu print server.

== Printing to PDF ==

* <nowiki>[[PrintToPDF| Print to PDF]]</nowiki> - Setup a virtual printer to print PDFs from any application.

----
CategoryHardware
