{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


== Installing the MFC-240C in 64-bit Feisty ==

The first step in installing your MFC-240C in Feisty 64-bit is to download the LPR driver and the cupswrapper driver. The LPR driver can be downloaded here
<nowiki>[[http://solutions.brother.com/linux/s...r_drivers.html|LPR Driver]]</nowiki>
and the cupswrapper driver can be downloaded here.
<nowiki>[[http://solutions.brother.com/linux/s...s_drivers.html|Cupswrapper Driver]]</nowiki>

* Make sure when you download the drivers that you download the drivers for Debian and not Redhat. 
 
=== Installing Drivers ===

After you have downloaded the drivers you need to install them. Make sure that you install the LPR driver first before you install the cupswrapper driver. To install the LPR driver put this in the terminal. For anybody who doesn't know to open the terminal it can be found by going to Applications>Accessories>Terminal.

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i --force-architecture mfc240clpr-1.0.0-9.i386.deb
</pre>
and to install cupswrapper

<pre>
sudo dpkg -i --force-architecture mfc240ccupswrapper-1.0.0-9.i386.deb
</pre>

=== Setting up your printer ===

After both of those install successfully open up your web browser you use and put this in.
<nowiki>[[http://localhost:631|CUPS Configuration]]</nowiki>

If for some reason you get a error saying page not found than you need to start cups by putting this in the terminal 
<pre>
sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys start
</pre>

Click on “Manage Printers” and confirm that the device name is listed there. If the device name is NOT listed there, click on "Add Printer" and install the driver following the on-screen instructions.

=== Setting up Scanning Function ===

1)Install the sane and xsane packages.

2)Download the Brother Scanner driver from <nowiki>[[http://solutions.brother.com/linux/sol/printer/linux/sane_drivers.html]]</nowiki> You need to download the brscan2 driver ver. 0.2..3-0.

3)Install the Brother Scanner driver
<pre>
dpkg -i brscan2-0.2.3-0.i386.deb
  </pre>

4)Modify the /etc/fstab file
** If the line which starts with "none /proc/bus/usb" or "usbfs /proc/bus/usb" does not exist in the   
    /etc/fstab file, run the following command:
    <pre>
echo 'none /proc/bus/usb usbfs auto,devmode=0666 0 0' >> /etc/fstab
    </pre>
** If the line which starts with "none /proc/bus/usb" or "usbfs /proc/bus/usb" does exist in the /etc/fstab  
    file, edit the line as below:
    <pre>
none /proc/bus/usb usbfs auto,devmode=0666 0 0
    </pre>

5)Modify the USB access control
<pre>
umount /proc/bus/usb
mount /proc/bus/usb
mknod -m 666 /dev/usbscanner c 180 48
</pre>

  
=== Solutions to Errors ===

* If you cannot print you need to install the lib32stdc++6 package

* If you get this error
 <pre>
mkdir: cannot create directory `/var/spool/lpd/mfc240c': No such file or directory
chown: cannot access `/var/spool/lpd/mfc240c': No such file or directory
chgrp: cannot access `/var/spool/lpd/mfc240c': No such file or directory
chmod: cannot access `/var/spool/lpd/mfc240c': No such file or directory
 </pre>
you need to do this
  <pre>
sudo mkdir /var/spool/lpd
sudo mkdir /var/spool/lpd/mfc240c
  </pre>
----
