{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

== What is ProFTPD? ==

''ProFTPD'' is a high-performance, extremely configurable, and, most of all, secure FTP server that features Apache-like configuration and blazing performance.

=== Installing ProFTPD ===
''ProFTPD'' can be installed from the Universe Repository.

You can also find alternate ''ProFTPD'' packages to install depending on your needs. All of these packages listed can be found in the Universe Repository

''' The following packages can be installed: '''
* proftpd - Versatile, virtual-hosting FTP daemon
* proftpd-common - Versatile, virtual-hosting FTP daemon
* proftpd-doc - Versatile, virtual-hosting FTP daemon (Documentation)
* proftpd-ldap - Versatile, virtual-hosting FTP daemon (with LDAP support)
* proftpd-mysql - Versatile, virtual-hosting FTP daemon (with SQL support)
* proftpd-pgsql - Versatile, virtual-hosting FTP daemon (with SQL support)

==== Configuring ProFTPD ====
To configure ''ProFTPD'', open up your favorite text editor, and open the file '''/etc/proftpd/proftpd.conf'''

Most of the values already set in the default configuration file you will not need to change.

The only ones you might need to change are the following
* "Server Name"(This can be changed to whatever you would like)
* "Server Type"(The two options are '''standalone''' or '''inetd'''.  If you select standalone, ''ProFTPD'' will have to be started from a terminal.  If you choose '''inetd''', ''ProFTPD'' will start up when your machine boots.)
* "Port" (You should only change this if you are worried about security)
* To reduce login time, set U''''''seReverseDNS and I''''''dentLookups to '''off'''

Check out this link for how to setup proftpd-mysql. Works great!
<nowiki>[[http://www.debuntu.org/how-to-ftp-virtual-host-with-proftpd-mysql|proftpd-mysql setup]]</nowiki>

==== FTPS vs. SFTP ====
For users of SSH with complete shells on the host and SSH capabilities (using an <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.04/serverguide/C/openssh-server.html | OpenSSH Server]]</nowiki>) SFTP is generally used in preference to secure FTP (FTPS).
