{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== What is projectM? ==
ProjectM is the reimplementation of the <nowiki>[[http://www.nullsoft.com/free/milkdrop/|MilkDrop]]</nowiki> using the OpenGL library.  In short, projectM is a very good music visualization software that can use the already very proper MilkDrop visualization scripts.  Thankfully, ProjectM can work with many popular music players and is in the Ubunut repositories.

== Installation ==
=== From the Ubuntu Repository ===
ProjectM is in the Ubuntu repository so to install projectm just search for it in add/remove programs or install it with the command 
<pre>
sudo apt-get install libvisual-projectm
</pre>

== Working with Different Music Players ==
=== Amarok ===
By installing from the package it should work out of the box! Just restart Amarok then go to Tools > Visualizations > ProjectM.  

== Usage ==
projectM uses different keys to navigate the interface. Below is a table of the different keys do, but to get this table in the interface press f1.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| m
| brings up a menu
|-
| f
| toggles fullscreen on/off
|-
| l
| "locks" to a particular preset
|-
| y
| toggles shuffle mode
|-
| n
| next preset
|-
| p
| previous preset
|-
| r
| selects random preset
|-
| F1
| Help menu
|-
| F2
| Toggles song title on/off (doesn't work in libvisual or pulseaudio as far as I can tell)
|-
| F3
| Toggle preset name on/off
|-
| F4
| Toggle rendering info on/off
|-
| F5
| Shows fps
|}

== Installing new presets ==
You can install new presets that are milkdrop compatible. Not all work, but a good amount do.  To find them you can go to the <nowiki>[[http://forums.winamp.com/forumdisplay.php?s=6ae1bea2bb279bb438bdf0534d63b673&forumid=84|MilkDrop Forums]]</nowiki> to download them and then place the .milk file in /usr/share/projectM/presets directory.
