{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

== PS3 Media Server ==

== Introduction ==
Stream Media to your DLNA compliant devices.

PS3 Media Server is a DLNA compliant Upnp Media Server originally written for the PS3, now supports Xbox360, Sony Bravia, Popcorn Hour, Samsung Wiselink, Freebox HD & others. PMS is written in Java, with the purpose of streaming or transcoding any kind of media files, with minimum configuration. It's backed up with the powerful Mplayer/FFmpeg packages. 

== Installation instructions ==
=== Install from PPA (recommended) ===
Supported Ubuntu versions are 10.04 LTS (Lucid) and higher. Note that the repository might not contain the very latest version.  You can install PS3 Media Server (and keep it up to date) with these commands:
<pre>
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:happy-neko/ps3mediaserver
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ps3mediaserver
</pre>
Now you can run PS3 Media Server from Applications -> Audio and Video.
Don't forget to restart GUI server after update. 

For more information visit <nowiki>[[http://www.ps3mediaserver.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=13046|official forum]]</nowiki>.
==== If system tray icon is missing ====
From version 11.04 upwards Ubuntu has known bug (Canonical insists its a feature) when Unity desktop hides system tray icons for some applications. To enable icons for all applications open Terminal and enter this command:
<pre>
gsettings set com.canonical.Unity.Panel systray-whitelist "['all']"
</pre>
then logout from system and login again. Now you should see PS3 Media Server tray icon.

==== Files and folders ====
===== Executable =====
/usr/bin/ps3mediaserver

===== User configuration =====
$HOME/.config/ps3mediaserver/PMS.conf
$HOME/.config/ps3mediaserver/WEB.conf

===== System-wide configuration =====
/etc/ps3mediaserver/

===== Renderers' profiles =====
/etc/ps3mediaserver/renderers/

===== Log directory =====
/var/log/ps3mediaserver/

===== Media database directory =====
/var/lib/ps3mediaserver/

===== Plugins directory =====
/usr/lib/ps3mediaserver/plugins/

===== Init.d script =====
/etc/init.d/ps3mediaserver
/etc/default/ps3mediaserver (startup options)

=== Manual install ===
'''Important notice!''' PS3 Media Server requires specific versions of ''ffmpeg'', ''mplayer'', ''mencoder'' and ''libmediainfo'' different from those available via official Ubuntu repository. That's why it is highly recommended to install it from PPA (see above) bundled with all necessary tools independent from ssytem-wide binaries or build dependencies from source with provided ''contrib/build-pms-binaries.sh'' script. Running PS3 Medias Server with unsupported ''ffmpeg'' or ''mencoder'' like following method suggests may cause numerous bugs!

- PMS requires the following packages: MEncoder, Mplayer, FFMpeg, and Sun's Java 

 To install from a terminal and type: 
<pre>
 sudo apt-get install mencoder ffmpeg mplayer vlc sun-java6-jre
</pre>

 in Ubuntu 10.04 ( lucid ) type:
<pre>
 sudo apt-get install mencoder ffmpeg mplayer vlc openjdk-6-jre
</pre>

Or you can click on these packages individually if you'd prefer to avoid the terminal: 

 <nowiki>[[apt:mencoder|mencoder]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[apt:ffmpeg|ffmpeg]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[apt:mplayer|mplayer]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[apt:vlc|vlc]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[apt:sun-java6-jre|sun-java6-jre]]</nowiki>

- Grab the latest version of <nowiki>[[http://ps3mediaserver.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=919|Playstation 3 Media Server]]</nowiki> and save it on you home directory 

- Navigate to your home directory, right cilck on the .tgz file you just downloaded and select ''extract here''. 

- Navigate to that folder, right click on PMS.sh and choose properties now in Permissions allow it to be executed. Do the same thing for a file called tsMuxeR which is in a sub-folder called linux.

- Finally just double click on PMS.sh and choose run to start the program!

==== Configuration ====

In the ''General Configuration'' tab Under ''Network Settings'' choose the network interface you want to stream your media from (ex wlan0, lan0, etc)
You maybe want to tick ''Start Minimized''.

In the ''Navigation/Share Settings'' add any folders of media you would like to share for example ~/Videos and ~/Music

Click Save to save your settings.

== Run PS3 Media Server at startup ==
If you'd like to have PS3MS startup when you log into Ubuntu desktop you can simply add ''/usr/bin/ps3mediaserver'' (or ''PMS.sh'' if you installed PS3MS from tarball manually) to System --> Preferences --> Startup Applications --> Add

== See Also ==

* http://www.ps3mediaserver.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=315 - HOWTO install svn version.

== External Links ==

* http://ps3mediaserver.blogspot.com/ -A blog about PMS
* http://ps3mediaserver.org/forum/ - PMS forum
* http://code.google.com/p/ps3mediaserver/ - PMS's homepage
