{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== psyBNC ==

=== Information ===

psyBNC is an extremely easy to use IRC-bouncer which has many features. Some of these features include ciphering of talk and connections (Blowfish and IDEA), the possibility of linking multiple bouncers to an internal network including a shared partyline, vhost- and relay support to connected bouncers and an extensive online help system. Many other helpful functions are included.

=== Install & Setup ===

==== Getting psyBNC ====

psyBNC is not in the Ubuntu apt repo's yet so we have to grab the source tarball from the site.
<pre>
cd 
wget http://www.psybnc.at/download/beta/psyBNC-2.3.2-7.tar.gz
tar -zxvf psyBNC-2.3.2-7.tar.gz
cd psybnc
</pre>

You are now inside the psyBNC directory and ready to start configuring.

==== Configuration ====

Now you can launch an ncurses based menu to configure your bot.
<pre>
make menuconfig
</pre>
Take a look at the options and customize your bot till it is the way you like it.
Now go in `Bouncer Config', next set Listening Port and Ip.
Next select `User' Here you will be able to create a user for your bouncer. You must set Ident, Realname and Password, and vhost too.
So return to main menu, and choose exit. When prompted for saving select Yes. 

==== Installation ====

Simply do;
<pre>
make
</pre>

==== Running psyBNC ====

<pre>
./psybnc
</pre>

Now open your preferred irc client and write:
<pre>
/server host port password
</pre>
For example, assuming these are your parameters:

*** Ip  : 82.211.13.24
*** Port  : 43568
*** Pass  : Change_Me 

you must type:
<pre>
/server 82.211.13.24 43568 Change_Me
</pre>

''Simple''.

=== Links ===

* <nowiki>[[http://www.psybnc.at|Home Page]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_psyBNC|Gentoo HowTo]]</nowiki>

----
