{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Note: These instructions are only for creating packages for personal use. This method won't work for creating packages intended for submission to repositories.'''  For submitting to repositories, see <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide|Ubuntu packaging guide]]</nowiki>. If you are looking for a simple guide on how to create a Debian/Ubuntu package you could read http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/336 (<nowiki>[[http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/337|Second part]]</nowiki>) or try <nowiki>[[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/stdeb/|stdeb tool]]</nowiki> for converting Python source packages to Debian.

Here is a simple example on creating a Debian Package, but it will not be in agreement with the <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian/Ubuntu Policy]]</nowiki>. You should read that if you want to publish your program in the Debian/Ubuntu repositories. In this example I will use a game called Twisted Zombie which was developed for <nowiki>[[http://www.pyweek.org|PyWeek 5]]</nowiki>.

=== First step ===
The first thing you should know is the folder structure of the Debian Package before you create it. This folder contains three files that are very important, '''control''', '''twisted-zombie''' and '''twisted-zombie.desktop'''. 

<pre>
DEBIAN/
    control
usr/
    bin/
        twisted-zombie
    share/
        applications/
            twisted-zombie.desktop
        pixmaps/
            twisted-zombie-icon.png
        twisted-zombie/
            data/
            lib/
            COPYING
            README.txt
            create-upload.py
            pyweek-upload.py
            run_game.py</pre>

''twisted-zombie'' is the folder of the application itself, ''pixmaps'' contains an icon, ''application'' contains a desktop file that indicates some options to GNOME, and ''bin'' contains a script to execute this game from a console.

=== control file ===
In the ''control'' file, we will put a short description, long description, package name, package version, etc. Just like the output of the `apt-cache show package` command. The control file contains:

<pre>
Package: twisted-zombie
Version: 1.0
Section: games
Maintainer: Manuel Kaufmann <humitos@gmail.com>
Architecture: all
Depends: python, python-pygame
Description: Twisted Zombie game
 Twisted Zombie is a game developed for PyWeek 5
 in seven days by programmers of Santa Fé Argentina. </pre>

If you wish, you can put more information about the package. In this page you can find all what you need for this: <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-controlfields.html#s-binarycontrolfiles|Binary package control files]]</nowiki>

=== twisted-zombie file ===
In this file we will put what command should be executed when we type `twisted-zombie` in a console. It's simple, it only contains the `python` command with the path of the main .py file. Make sure that it is executable (chmod a+x run_game.py):
<code>python /usr/share/twisted-zombie/run_game.py</code>

=== twisted-zombie.desktop file ===
In this file we put some options about our application, to tell GNOME -or other desktop- to put our application in the menu, specifying which icon to use, what command to execute, etc...

<pre>
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Twisted Zombie
Version=1.0
Comment=Game developed for PyWeek 5
GenericName=Twisted Zombie Game
Terminal=false
Icon=twisted-zombie-icon.png
Type=Application
Exec=python /usr/share/twisted-zombie/run_game.py
Categories=Game;</pre>

=== Config your application ===
If you use external files, you should include the following lines in the .py that uses those files:
<pre>
import os
os.chdir('/usr/share/twisted-zombie')</pre>

=== Build and install our package ===
In this step we will build our package. For this, we use the following command in the folder that contain our application:

<code>$ dpkg --build twisted-zombie/ twisted-zombie-1.0_all.deb</code>

And to finish:

<code>$ dpkg -i twisted-zombie-1.0_all.deb</code>

Done, we have installed our game in our machine. Now, open a terminal, and type `twisted-zombie` or go to the Application Menu -> Games -> Twisted Zombie Game and play it.

----
Categories: CategoryPythonRecipes
