{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''This section is currently under development. If you would like to contribute, please feel free to do so!''

Python is a programming language which makes it easy to create anything from small, useful tools to full-sized applications. The good news is that Ubuntu has excellent support for Python right out of the box. The great news is that you can get started right away using the advice and sample code in these Python recipes!

The aim of these recipes is to provide examples of useful Python code which you can use to learn more about Python, and to provide code which you can use as ''building blocks'' for writing your own software. All of the example code is distributed under a free software license, so you can use it in your own projects.

=== Getting started with Python ===
There are hundreds of Python resources available, including many books and online guides. Below is a small selection of what's available:

* <nowiki>[[http://www.python.org/|Python.org]]</nowiki> - The official Python website
* <nowiki>[[Programming-Python|Programming Python]]</nowiki> - An introduction to Python
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide|Python for Beginners]]</nowiki> - A beginners' guide to Python
* <nowiki>[[http://www.diveintopython.net/|Dive Into Python]]</nowiki> - An online book intended to help more experienced programmers learn Python
* <nowiki>[[http://www.pygame.org/|Pygame]]</nowiki> - An excellent resource for anyone interested in Python game development (pygame is in the Ubuntu software repository).

=== Graphical applications ===
Most graphical software in Ubuntu uses GTK, the GIMP Tool''''''Kit. Python has excellent support for GTK through the PyGTK bindings.

* <nowiki>[[PythonRecipes-HelloWorld|Hello World!]]</nowiki> - The simplest graphical application you can write, Hello World is an easy-to-follow example of a graphical application
* <nowiki>[[PythonRecipes-GTKBasics|GTK Basics]]</nowiki> - Basic information on how GTK works and what all of the technical terms mean
* <nowiki>[[PythonRecipes-WebBrowser|Simple Web Browser]]</nowiki> - Thanks to the GtkMozEmbed widget, it's easy to write a simple web browser application
* <nowiki>[[PythonRecipes-MIMETypes|MIME Types]]</nowiki> - You can use the MIME system to find the file type and default application for a file

=== Packaging and distribution ===
Once you've written a Python application, you may want to package and distribute it so that other people can use it. These articles show you how.

* <nowiki>[[PythonRecipes-DebianPackage|Creating a Debian Package]]</nowiki>
* Publishing packages on Launchpad using your Personal Package Archive

=== Documentation, translations and other supporting material ===
For software to be useful to people, you need more than just code. Documentation and translations are an important part of the user experience.

* Writing man pages
* Writing a DocBook user guide

=== Uncategorised articles ===
If you've written an article but aren't sure which section it should go into, please list it here.

* None yet...

----
CategoryProgramming
