{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

=== Damir Butmir (d4m1r2) ===

==== About Me ====

I am a detail-oriented IT professional who has worked with and for large North American firms in various IT related capacities including software, hardware, and networking/telecom.  I already have several years experience in Quality Assurance/Software Verification positions working on complex custom software destined for the likes of AT&T, Verizon, Time Warner, Bell Canada, and other clients. As well, I have experience with all types of testing including regression, performance, and user acceptance (using various testing methodologies including Agile, Lean, etc). 

I graduated from one of the top 10 Universities in Canada, the University of Ottawa which has been consistently ranked as in the top 200 in the world as well.

 

==== Contributions ====

I've been involved with Ubuntu since 6.06.2 LTS (Dapper Drake) as an end-user, but it is only in the Summer/Fall of 2011 that I started contributing to the project after I was exposed more and more to Unix/Solaris/BSD at work. Since then, I've had a special interest in the free/open source, *nix, and Ubuntu communities. I contribute to the Ubuntu QA Team in terms of;

-Writing Testcases

-Manual Regression Testing

-Exploratory/Ad-Hoc Testing

-Bug Reporting/Triaging

==== Contact ====

Email = damir (at) qaengineer (dot) net

Launchpad = <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~d4m1r2|https://launchpad.net/~d4m1r2]]</nowiki>

Website = <nowiki>[[http://www.qaengineer.net | http://www.qaengineer.net]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryBugHelper
