{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Note: You will need sudo privileges for all of the commands on this page.

== About Dabo ==

Dabo is a 3-tier, cross-platform application development framework, written in Python atop the wxPython GUI toolkit. And while Dabo is designed to create database-centric apps, that is not a requirement. Lots of people are using Dabo for the GUI tools to create apps that have no need to connect to a database at all.

== Installing wxPython ==

  0. Run <code>sudo apt-get update</code>. Once the update finishes, run <code>sudo apt-get install python-wxgtk2.8 python-wxtools</code>.

Now you have successfully installed wxpython.

== Installing A Database ==

Note: If you already have a database (must be SQLite, MySQL, PostrgeSQL, or Firebird) installed on your computer than you may skip over this section.

Dabo allows for a small variety of possible databases to use with it. Dabo works with SQLite, MySQL, PostgreSQL, or Firebird. This page will only cover setting up SQLite to work with Dabo.

To install SQLite on your computer simply run the following command in your terminal: <code>sudo apt-get install python-pysqlite2</code>. Now you are ready to install Dabo.

== Installing Dabo ==
{i} Needs updating and making more generic. PhilWyett
## There are 3 important parts to downloading Dabo. They include the core Dabo files (which are absolutely necessary), the Dabo demo files (which I recommend for beginners to Dabo), and the Dabo IDE files (which are very helpful when developing with Dabo). Download the following tar files: <nowiki>[[ftp://dabodev.com/dabo/dabo-0.7.2-mac-nix.tar.gz|core files]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[ftp://dabodev.com/dabo/dabodemo-0.7.2-mac-nix.tar.gz|demo files]]</nowiki>, and <nowiki>[[ftp://dabodev.com/dabo/daboide-0.7.1-mac-nix.tar.gz|IDE files]]</nowiki>.
## From the command line change your directory to the directory where you downloaded the tar files (by default, Firefox downloads files to the Desktop).
## Run the following command: <code>tar -xf dabo-0.7.2-mac-nix.tar.gz</code>. This will create a folder in your current directory named dabo.
## Change to the directory and run <code>sudo python setup.py</code>. This will install dabo on your system.
## If you have also downloaded the dabo demo and/or IDE tar files, change back to the direcotry where you downloaded the tar files. For the demo files run <code>tar -xf dabo dabodemo-0.7.2-mac-nix.tar.gz</code> and for the IDE files run <code>tar -xf dabo daboide-0.7.1-mac-nix.tar.gz</code>.

Once you have run those 2 commands you are finished installing Dabo on your system.

To begin using Dabo, run the Class''''''Designer.py file in the daboide folder.

== Links ==

Dabo homepage: http://dabodev.com

----
