{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


=== About Me ===

Hi, I'm Philipp Specht. I've recently finished my diploma thesis in Computer Science and currently work in systems administration.

I've been using Ubuntu as my main operating system since 2009, with varying desktop environments and window managers.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| dadrc ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| GPG
| AB385079
|-
| Launchpad ID
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~philipp-specht|philipp-specht]]</nowiki>
|-
| Website
| <nowiki>[[http://cooco.de|cooco.de]]</nowiki>
|}

=== Contributions ===

I'm a member of the ubuntu-de IRC operator team since 2011. In our channel #ubuntu-de we provide Ubuntu users with support for all Ubuntu-related issues.

=== Future Goals ===

I'm planning on continuing my work in the support channel. Also, I will try to expand the system information script I've written to make it easier to gather relevant information to track down problems. Once the script has reached a certain maturity, I'll package it to make distribution easier.

=== Testimonials ===

I'm an operator-colleague from the german spoken ubuntu channels. "dadrc" is mostly very busy in #ubuntu-de* -channels and often is helpfull with answers or target-oriented counterquestion. "internal" he always takes a look for the best way. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:jokrebel]]</nowiki> 2013-03-20

dadrc is one of the newest team members. When he joined, he brought in a lot of competence and experience and helped countless users with their problems. Two years later, he's still very actively contributing to our community. I would really like to see him becoming an Ubuntu Member. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:ppq]]</nowiki> 2013-03-20

dadrc is a well known and good supporter in the german Ubuntu support channel #ubuntu-de. He brings a lot of knowledge from his Studies, Work and own Experience into the Support and into the german social channel #ubuntu-de-offtopic. Therefore he was asked to join the german operators team over a year ago. I do support his application. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:k1l]]</nowiki> 2013-03-20
