{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Dag Rune Sneeggen ==

Name: Dag Rune Sneeggen<<BR>>
Situated: Trondheim, Norway (<nowiki>[[http://tinyurl.co.uk/5yf5|MapQuest Trondheim]]</nowiki>)<<BR>>
Date of birth: <nowiki>[[http://thecelebritycafe.com/birthdays/April/06/|6th of April]]</nowiki> 1983<<BR>>

Been playing with computers ever since we got a Compaq Presario back in 1994. Been playing with Linux/*BSD since around 1999/1998. Now have my own pseudo-successful hosting company, as well as being involved in a number of development projects and communities.<<BR>>
I'm involved in Linux mainly because it's terribly fun, but also because I honestly believe its the best implementation of an Operative System to this day. (An honourable mention goes to the now dead BeOS!)<<BR>>

Do check out my Curriculum Vitæ those who feels its intersting! ;)
* <nowiki>[[http://dudcore.net/cv-en|Curriculum Vitæ English]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://dudcore.net/cv-no|Curriculum Vitæ Norwegian]]</nowiki>

=== Involved In ===

* Project Administrator and Lead Developer: Tapper Package Manager
** <nowiki>[[http://sourceforge.net/projects/tapper-pm|Sourceforge project page]]</nowiki>
** <nowiki>[[http://nix-dev.dudcore.net/CurrProjects/TapperPM|Homepage/Wiki]]</nowiki>
* Active in a random range of Open Source bug fixing and detecting.
* Active on a number of technical Linux/*BSD mailing list and IRC channels.
* CEO of the IT Consulting business <nowiki>[[http://dudcore.net/|dudcore Consulting AS]]</nowiki>
* Creator of the development wiki/community <nowiki>[[http://nix-dev.dudcore.net/MainPage|NixDev]]</nowiki>

=== Knowledge ===

* Deep knowledge of following languages:
** Python
** Perl
** SQL
** PHP
* I can hack my way around the following languages pretty darn well:
** C/C++
** Java
** Javascript
** Visual Basic
** TCL/Tk
** Ruby
** Lua
* "Old-school" languages I've been known to enjoy:
** Intel x86 Assembly
** BASIC
** Locomotive BASIC (Eg, Amstrad CPC console programming)
** Casio CFX-9850 programming(Whatever the language is called...)

=== Computers Under My Power ===
* Main desktop home PC
** AMD Athlon64 3000+
** 1GB RAM
** Ubuntu GNU/Linux 64bit OS
* Main server
** Intel Xeon 2.8 GHz
** 2GB ECC RAM
** Multiple Tier-1 Gbps connectivity
** FreeBSD latest
* Second server
** VPS @ bytemark.co.uk
** Debian Sarge GNU/Linux OS
* Amstrad CPC464
** Zilog Z80 @ 4 MHz
** 64KB RAM + 32KB ROM
** CP/M 2.2 OS
* Luxor ABC80
** Z80A @ 3.5 MHz
** 16KB RAM
** BASIC-in-ROM OS

=== Interests ===

* Music
* Marxism
* Philosophy
* Painting
* Photography

Currently aiming at being accepted to a '''good''' UK university for a Bachelour/Master Degree with Honours for the 2006 semester. :)

=== Other stuff ===

* Serious blog: http://curbsqueal.com/
* Other blog: http://flip.co.in
* E-mail: dud@dudcore.net
----
CategoryHomepage
