{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


''Please check the status of this specification in Launchpad before editing it.  If it is Approved, contact the Assignee or another knowledgeable person before making changes.''

* '''Launchpad Entry''': UbuntuSpec:daily-kernel-builds
** '''Packages affected''': linux-source, elmo, PPA's

=== Summary ===

Daily kernel builds using PPA would allow for more frequent testing outside of
the normal archive uploads.

=== Release Note ===

Daily kernel builds provide better test coverage then the normal development release process.

=== Rationale ===

Normal kernel uploads are infrequent enough for proper testing. However, more
frequent official uploads are too much of a load on kernel devs, the archive and
users who are following the development cycle.

=== Use Cases ===

* John reports a bug that is fixed the same day with a patch in git repo. Normally he would have to wait to test this fix, but using the PPA he could do so the next day.

=== Assumptions ===

* PPA's are fast and stable

=== Design ===

* Cronjob to create the source uploads

* ABI will be based on a subset of GIT-SHA for HEAD and injected into sources

* Sources will have a file created prior to the upload that denotes a PPA build

* Sources include: linux-source, lum, lrm, linux-meta

* Only specific flavors will be built:
** i386, amd64 -> generic
** lpia -> lpia
* Use canonical-kernel-team account with passphraseless gpg key to do uploads

=== Implementation ===

* Packages need to recognize trigger for PPA-only build (limit flavors and no udebs)
* Cronjob to generate these source packages, but only if they have changed since the previous build.

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

The best way to get good test coverage is to have a number of people add the PPA APT repo reference to their /etc/apt/sources.list file. Certainly all of the kernel developers should do so.

=== Outstanding Issues ===

Until the kernel build files are made smart about where they are being built (such as on a PPA), all of the x86 flavours will get built. However, the intent of the specification is to build only a subset of the available x86 and x86_64 flavours and architectures. Some community members have complained about this, but there is no reason that the community maintained flavours cannot manage their own PPA.

----
CategorySpec
CategoryKernel
