{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


'''Not yet announced.'''
----

== Info ==
General stuff: 

https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/community-m-advocate-daily-builds

List of apps that have daily builds already: bazaar, couchdb, django, inkscape, hg, project neon - aka amarok, chromium, firefox, banshee, mago, mysql, apache, samba, qemu-kvm, libvirt, postgres, puppet, openldap, varnish, xorg-edgers, gwibber, thunderbird

 - explicit information how to warn users and about bug filing and 
 - mention ADOPT-AN-UPSTREAM 
 - selling it: 
   + test major rewrite, 
   + backporting fixes and all the rest of it 

 - upstream folks add themselves to a wiki page 
 - how to roll-back, etc. 
 - ask upstreams to be clear

----

== Announce ==

Are you ready for something really awesome? Something that will quite easily change the way you interact with your users, a way to get users closer to development, to get them to assist you and your development team?

Launchpad introduces the Daily Builds feature as a ''Beta Service''. What does this mean?

You tell Launchpad which development branch(es) to pick, where to get the packaging from and which Ubuntu releases to build packages for.

Why is this great? Simple.

* You give users who deeply care about your software the chance to use it in the most simple way possible.
* You can people to test new features, a rewrite or whatever new happened in trunk without actively doing something for it.
* Users who try out your newest revisions, can easily report back when a problem started happening.

Quite simply: You make passionate users part of your development team.

It is still in ''Beta Service'' and you can expect improvements over the coming weeks and months.

Get started:
    http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DailyBuilds/GettingStarted

The only questions you need to ask yourselves first are:
* Do I want bug reports about trunk in my regular bug tracker?
* Which branches are you going to expose? trunk? beta? stable?

More information, for example on how to message daily builds out to your users, or how to roll back to old versions, check out our knowledge base: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DailyBuilds/KnowledgeBase

Join the awesome growing group of upstreams who have daily builds already: bazaar, couchdb, django, inkscape, hg, project neon - aka amarok, chromium, firefox, banshee, mago, mysql, apache, samba, qemu-kvm, libvirt, postgres, puppet, openldap, varnish, xorg, gwibber, thunderbird.

    http://wiki.ubuntu.com/DailyBuilds/GettingStarted
