{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page about users with no internet connection (offline) and also people with slow internet connection updating problem.

I'll talk about the Synaptic's "generate download script" feature. there is possible other solution but this is the best at my opinion with current tools in hand.

UPDATE: there is <nowiki>[[http://keryxproject.org/|Keryx Project ]]</nowiki> which seem to do a very good job in this matter.
 
 Keryx is a free and open source tool for easily managing packages on offline Debian based computers including support for Ubuntu and Linux Mint. It provides an easy graphical interface to help install and upgrade software.

=== Bugs ===

Ubuntu should provide update packages for download and use for offline users
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/572776

that will able the user to use GDS in it's current state.

or

as in
Synaptic's Generate download script does not update package lists
https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/251378

it's possible to make the script provide you an update script but it have not been implemented in Synaptic yet

=== possible benefits ===

* user with offline system will be able to update
* user with offline system will be able to install new software
* no need for another ubuntu or even linux system
* no need to install special software on the connected system

=== draw backs ===
* user should go twice to the connected machine, one to get the updated software list packages and second to get the packages

=== Simulation ===
==== manual ====
this will simulate the manual way a user should go through just to update the software lists.
<pre>
sudo apt-get update --print-uris
</pre>
will gives you the packages used to update the software lists.

output will look something like this. it's omitted in this example 
<pre>
'http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.bz2' ppa.launchpad.net_ubuntu-x-swat_x-updates_ubuntu_dists_lucid_main_binary-i386_Packages 0 :
'http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu/dists/lucid/Release' ppa.launchpad.net_ubuntu-x-swat_x-updates_ubuntu_dists_lucid_Release 0
'http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu/dists/lucid/Release.gpg' ppa.launchpad.net_ubuntu-x-swat_x-updates_ubuntu_dists_lucid_Release.gpg 0
'http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/i18n/Translation-ar.bz2' ppa.launchpad.net_ubuntu-x-swat_x-updates_ubuntu_dists_lucid_main_i18n_Translation-ar 0 :
'http://sa.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.bz2' sa.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_lucid_main_binary-i386_Packages 0 :
'http://sa.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid/restricted/binary-i386/Packages.bz2' sa.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_lucid_restricted_binary-i386_Packages 0 :
</pre>
you do:
<pre>
wget http://sa.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/lucid/main/binary-i386/Packages.bz2
</pre>
then
<pre>
bunzip2 Packages.bz2
</pre>
then
<pre>
mv Packages.bz2 sa.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_lucid_main_binary-i386_Packages
</pre>
then copy the file to the folder /var/lib/apt/lists/ and this should have updated the "main" software list only.

==== Deb package or Synaptic ====
this is what you need to update from .deb file if provided by Ubuntu

double click and install ,some times it's only one click ;)

or if it's implemented in synaptic then synaptic will just ask you for the place of the packages and it will do the rest

=== Should it be a script ===
the user can use the "generate download script" output not the script it self.

example after selecting evince-dbg and generating the script:
<pre>
wget -c http://sa.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/e/evince/evince-dbg_2.30.0-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
</pre>
as you see the important part is the link to the package. a user using other operating systems can just take the link and get the package. simple right? 

"what if it's more the 40 packages?" use Firefox addon "Downthemall" or some download manager that can import list of txt files.
=== Alternative ===
* a script on server side that user upload the current package state on his system to it then the server provide him with packages links.  (maco suggestion)
* aptoncd: but you will need another Ubuntu machine online and haven't cleaned the packages archive

=== Discussion ===
discussion goes here
