{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, Daniel T Chen, reapply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Daniel T Chen
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~crimsun
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[DanielTChen]]</nowiki>
|}

== Who I am ==
A seven-second synopsis is <nowiki>[[http://about.me/crimsun|here]]</nowiki>. My wiki page has <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanielTChen#Bio_sketch|a section]]</nowiki> also.

== My Ubuntu story ==
In late 2004, I began submitting fixes for Debian source packages that were in Ubuntu (before the latter's main and universe components were actualized). As 2005 wore on, I was privileged to join MOTU during its inception, served on the inaugural MOTU Council, worked tirelessly on audio (both kernel- and userspace) and did opportunistic security fixes. Thinking on it, that actually was the pattern for the proceeding six years.
=== My involvement ===
<nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanielTChen#Ubuntu_involvement|A section]]</nowiki> of my wiki page covers Ubuntu involvement from a hundred-mile view. These days I focus on opportunistic fixes for archive consistency (mainly FTBFS fixes), and despite continual travel for work that lacks Internet access, I'm pleased to have applied that focus across the past several releases.
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
For Ubuntu proper, Google <nowiki>[[https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Alists.ubuntu.com%20%22-changes%22%20daniel%20t%20chen|is pretty nice]]</nowiki> for this type of search. For recent RC fixes actually in Debian, <nowiki>[[http://planet.debian.org/cgi-bin/search.cgi?terms=Daniel+T+Chen&submit=Go|planet is pretty nice]]</nowiki> for that search.
=== Areas of work ===
For many years I focused on audio packages in main and universe. Fortunately, I also worked with Kubuntu and Ubuntu Studio developers. More recently I've focused on RC bug fixes in both Debian and Ubuntu.
=== Things I could do better ===
During the years that I maintained the audio stack, I really didn't communicate efforts at all. It wasn't until a UDS some years ago that grief over the PulseAudio migration was discussed. Arguably my work these days doesn't warrant high-profile communication.
== Plans for the future ==
Given my diminished Internet access, I plan to continue opportunistic RC bug fixes in both Debian and Ubuntu.

----
