{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, Danilo Egea Gondolfo, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Danilo Egea Gondolfo
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~danilogondolfo
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/danilogondolfo
|}

I am applying because:

* I'd like to eliminate delays in getting my work sponsored.
* I'd like to reduce the burden on my sponsors.
* I'd like to increase my involvement with Ubuntu development.
* That's the kind of thing I like to do :)

== Who I am ==

My name is Danilo, I'm a software developer at Canonical and member of the OCTO team.
I'm also a FreeBSD developer since 2013 working in the Ports tree (packaging). When I'm not
seating in front of computer screens I like seat in front of books, my PS5 and every now
and then I like to see the sun light (when Ireland allows me).

== My Ubuntu story ==
My first contact with Ubuntu was back in 2005 when I started in college. Back then my main OS was a pretty cool Brazilian Linux distribution
called <nowiki>[[https://distrowatch.com/table.php?distribution=kurumin|Kurumin]]</nowiki>, which I was running since 2003.
Ubuntu was this new distro the few Linux users in college were talking about. I was working as an IT technician at that time and
when we found out about Ubuntu it became the default OS in the company's PC used by the technicians. In 2006 I believe, Canonical
was shipping boxes of CDs with Ubuntu for free. We ordered a box with some forty something CDs for i386, amd64 and powerPC and
distributed it around to friends. The first 64-bit Desktop we sold (to a friend of mine) was shipped with Ubuntu. In these almost
20 years I've been constantly in contact with Ubuntu in many different places and now I'm having a lot of fun helping with the development
of Ubuntu itself, how cool is that!?

=== My involvement ===

I was a member of the Foundations team for two years and I was directly involved with package maintenance. As a member of the
Netplan development team, part of my job consists in help keeping the netplan.io source package updated in all the supported
releases of Ubuntu (and eventually in Debian) and it sometimes involves helping with other related packages such as network-manager.

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===

* <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=danilo.egea.gondolfo%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|Sponsored uploads]]</nowiki>

* MIRs I worked on so far:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rich/+bug/2003570
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/markdown-it-py/+bug/2003568
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdurl/+bug/2002818
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-typing-extensions/+bug/2002821
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libmatch-simple-perl/+bug/2042100
*** After some consideration, this MIR resulted in the oposite outcome (which is good): libmatch-simple-perl continued in Universe, libgitlab-api-v4-perl was demoted to Universe and devscripts (which depends on libgitlab-api-v4-perl) was <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/debian/devscripts/-/merge_requests/375|patched upstream]]</nowiki> to not depend on it on Ubuntu.
* SRUs I worked on so far:
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/netplan/+bug/1997467
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2039821
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2039825
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/1809994
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2025519
*** netplan.io 0.106.1 backported to Jammy
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/2040153
*** Emergency bugfix for network-manager on Mantic
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2074197
*** netplan.io 1.0.1-1ubuntu2 backported to Noble
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ipvsadm/+bug/2071949
*** Fix build scripts to enable frame pointers and hardening
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2058031
*** netplan.io 0.107.1 backporting to Jammy
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/1988018 and https://bugs.launchpad.net/netplan/+bug/2020409
*** SR-IOV handling improvements backported to Jammy
* Tests improvements merged to the network-manager package
** https://git.launchpad.net/network-manager/log/?qt=author&q=Danilo+Egea+Gondolfo
* Security issues I worked on
** I have found and fixed some security problems in Netplan and worked with the security team to get the security updates available for our users. During the process I prepared the fixes, worked on the backporting of patches, packaging and testing.
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2066258
** Issue reported by other developers that was also part of this work
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/netplan/+bug/1987842
*** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/+bug/2065738
* +1 shifts
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2024-March/042932.html
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-March/042530.html
** https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2023-June/042604.html

=== Areas of work ===
As a member of the Foundations team, I work on many different packages that need attention. Doing merges, fixing builds and investigating migration excuses for example.
As a member of the Netplan development team, most of my time is mainly focused on Netplan development. As Netplan is an important part
of Ubuntu, I eventually work with other teams. Due to the integration between Netplan and Network Manager, I worked with the Desktop team
(the current maintainers of network-manager) to get our patches and bug fixes integrated. I recently worked with the Openstack team
on improvements for the support of SR-IOV interfaces. Also recently I worked with the UX team on the user interface for the new netplan diff
feature I developed.

=== Things I could do better ===
Paying more attention on details when writing changelogs would be a good start. I also feel like I could be more involved with the development of Ubuntu in general.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
I want to get more involved with Ubuntu development in general. I also want to use my upload rights to be more efficient
when working on +1, merges and migration excuses.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
As a developer working on Ubuntu development, I had some hard time getting started. The processes are not well standardised and
people will do things in different ways. When I reached out for help, different people would tell me to do things differently or to use a different tool.
Luckily there are people working to improve it, for example: standardising merges according to the git-ubuntu guide,
there are developers working on a packaging guide for Ubuntu, which is really great.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Lukas 'slyon' Märdian ===
==== General feedback ====
I have been Danilo’s mentor since he joined the Ubuntu Foundations team late 2022. Due to his prior experience as a FreeBSD ports maintainer, Danilo was quick to pick up our approach to distro work and cooperated with the developer community on #ubuntu-devel transparently! He showed a great learning ability too as he got into the Netplan codebase quickly, producing loads of quality pull requests, adding new features, improving our CI test infrastructure and contributing plenty of ideas for future developments (incl. prototypes).

Danilo always kept an eye out for bug reports for Netplan (and related projects) and showed great attention to details when working on those bugs. He was especially careful when working on the big "Netplan everywhere" integration where we moved NetworkManager to a Netplan backend in Ubuntu 23.10, rolling this long-standing change out to our users globally. Danilo is super careful and doesn't hesitate to ask any questions to the relevant people if in doubt.

I sponsored several packages for Danilo, which can be seen from the list below.
Mostly related to Netplan, but also a few others. Additionally, he <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/debian/netplan.io/-/merge_requests?scope=all&state=all&author_username=danilogondolfo|prepared merge request on Debian Salsa]]</nowiki>, e.g. for preparing new Netplan patch-releases.

* netlan.io: SRUs, that follow a special test procedure and backporting policy
* bogl: a merge
* libcap2: a proposed-migration fix
* network-manager: an emergency bugfix related to security confinement

<nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=*rdian&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=danilo.egea.gondolfo%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|sponsored by slyon]]</nowiki>:

* 2022-11-28 09:53, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bogl/0.1.18-20ubuntu1
* 2023-01-25 18:07, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libcap2/1:2.66-3ubuntu1
* 2023-02-13 12:40, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/0.105-0ubuntu2~22.04.2
* 2023-02-13 16:34, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/0.105-0ubuntu2.1
* 2023-10-23 15:29, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.44.2-1ubuntu1.2
* 2023-10-26 10:21, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/0.107-5ubuntu1
* 2023-11-05 01:35, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/0.107-5ubuntu0.1
* 2023-11-14 14:13, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/0.107-5ubuntu2
* 2023-11-15 10:58, https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io/0.107-5ubuntu0.2

Danilo worked his way through several "+1 Maintenance" shifts, keeping the archive in good shape and learning about all the relationships between packages and the processes involved. He drove the <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rich/+bug/2003570|python-rich MIR]]</nowiki> that we introduced as a new dependency to Netplan (and transitive dependencies). I trust in his skills and decision-making in the best interest of the Ubuntu community.

'''I fully endorse his Ubuntu Core-Dev application.'''

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
Besides supporting Danilo’s distro work (as described above) I’ve primarily worked with him as part of the upstream Netplan project. He pushed plenty of PRs to GitHub, all of which have been of very high quality. He always reacted quickly and open-minded to any comments made during review and resolved any issues to everybody’s satisfaction. He helped triage bug reports on a regular cadence and came up with relevant fixes quickly thereafter. Furthermore, he also jumped in to do reviews for other community members and for myself and stepped up as a Netplan co-maintainer, managing stable release branches.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
There are always new things to learn in Ubuntu. With new powers comes new responsibilities, so Danilo should learn about dput[-ng] and additional helpers, such as https://git.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-server/+git/ubuntu-helpers/tree/cpaelzer/.dput.d/. Furthermore, he should keep an eye out for looming deadlines, making sure changes land in time for some additional QA checks.

=== Sergio Durigan Junior ===

==== General feedback ====

I sponsored several packages for Danilo, as can be seen <nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=Sergio+Durigan+Junior&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=Danilo*Gondolfo&sponsoree_search=name|here]]</nowiki>, and I believe '''Danilo is ready to become an Ubuntu Core Developer right now'''.

Danilo's packaging skills improved significantly over the period we worked together in the packages above, and his experience with FreeBSD has helped him quite a bit in understanding the idiosyncrasies of a Debian/Ubuntu package.  His ''+1 maintenance'' reports were also helpful and insightful, which is always a good thing to have when you are the next person to start the shift.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I worked with Danilo on distro stuff only, but he has always been very responsive whenever I had questions/comments about his proposed uploads, and keen to learn from his mistakes.  The changes he proposed to the packages I sponsored were always sensible and well described.  When he made mistakes, those were more related to forgetting to mention something in <code>d/changelog</code> than to actually a breaking change in the package.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

slyon already made some great suggestions above.  I honestly don't have much more to say here, so I would like to paraphrase Danilo himself and suggest that he continues improving his attention to detail when dealing with "paperwork stuff" (e.g., writing <code>d/changelog</code> entries).

=== Sebastien Bacher ===
==== General feedback ====

I've reviewed and sponsored a few network-manager fixes (tests and issues with the netplan integration) from Danilo. The changes were technically right and well documented. Danilo also helped me several times when I had questions about the network-manager/netplan integration. 

Based on those interaction I think Danilo has the needed packaging skills to be a coredev.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.42.4-1ubuntu4
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.42.4-1ubuntu5
https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.44.0-1ubuntu2

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I don't have a specific suggestion there. Checking the uploads record he built on his application page he seems to have working on a variety for distro tasks, including +1 rotations, MIRs and SRUs which are a good sign for a coredev candidate.

=== Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak ===
==== General feedback ====

Even though I only formally sponsored only 3 uploads for Danilo, and all of them related to the netplan.io package, throughout the years I have seen Danilo's diligence and passion for Ubuntu. Danilo always eagerly participated in various distro activities, always happy to pick up proposed-migration tasks, +1 rotations, MIR preparations and more. I also see his attention to detail with each of his uploads, always making sure about correctness and proper testing. Thanks to his prior experience as a FreeBSD ports maintainer, it feels to me as if working on a distribution comes naturally to him.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

As mentioned above, I only formally sponsored 3 uploads for Danilo, all for the netplan.io package. But I work with Danilo closely as his manager, so I had multiple occasions to see him in action.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I don't think there's much to improve, I think Danilo has all it takes to be a great Ubuntu Core Developer. One thing I'd like him to be weary of - not to tumble down too deep into the rabbit hole. Sometimes it's also good to 'give up' and pass over the baton of a difficult distro task!

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
