{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Launchpad eats bugs. Keeping track of the ones I'd rather not forget.

Ubiquity eats memory and crashes - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/714829

Tecra A11 won't suspend (bisect) - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/719620

QX410  touchpad doesn't work - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/719620

clock 1 second late - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/731570 (still triaging this one)

checkbox python process name - https://bugs.launchpad.net/checkbox/+bug/621659

QX410 keys don't work - I reported this and submitted a patch (still floating). https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/694630

Word processor crashes - triaged as incomplete - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/759054

Checkbox doesn't start a new test run - triaged as fix released (solved in natty) and importance: low. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox/+bug/724540

Errors while upgrading to Natty due to debconf problems - both closed as invalid due to use of non-Ubuntu packages (thanks to jibel who basically did everything for me, I had a lot of help) - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox/+bug/772820 and https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/checkbox/+bug/753243

Kernel panic only when rebooting - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/784484. Set to medium, criteria is: Medium, it's easily workaroundable but it is a problem with the Linux kernel and looks like a regression too, so I'd hesitate to say it's Low. JFo gave me a gold star :)

Crash while installing shared with Windows - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/784416. I sucked a bit on this one because I asked the poster for a ubiquity --debug log without realizing that includes passwords :( I need to remember to ask them not to use real passwords. To be fair, this doesn't seem to be documented anywhere (only core dumps and stack traces, maybe ubiquity --debug should be included explicitly?)

Update Manager eats a string - https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/787779 I think it's pretty much my first triaging of a core application. Set to medium per "moderate impact in a core application"  and "usability issue that does not limit functionality". Can't be low because it's a core app and it affects potentially all non-english speakers.

Feature request for a cryptic operator in gcalctool: https://bugs.launchpad.net/gcalctool/+bug/793831 (triaged/wishlist with upstream bug request)

Another feature request, confirmed, want to set to whitelist and asked the submitter to file upstream feature request. I also suggested a workaround. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ghex/+bug/803282

Reassuring an irate Unity user. https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/805223 - how's that for being "polite" to users :)
