{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Daniel Elias ==

'''homepage''': http://daniel.jb0.org/

'''email''': daniel@jb0.org 

'''keyID''': 0xE9CD263D

'''freenode''': VobiscuM

=== About me ===

I'm living in Manaus at Amazonas - Brazil.

I started to know about free software and how it is good for the community and society after 1 year using GNU/Linux, until that moment I saw GNU/Linux just like a tool unfortunely, once a day I ask myself, what means '''GNU''' ?!, so I decided to find the answer and when I found it, I discovered this answer is an answer for many questions of people and the bigger part of society of my country.

So, I dive into the local community of free software on my city, Manaus.

Today, 
I'm member of '''Comunidade Sol''' <nowiki>[[http://www.comunidadesol.org]]</nowiki>

and I helped with everything that I could make on all of kinds of events on my city about free software that I had knowledge and I want to help much more.

=== Interests ===

* Advocate free software

* Advocate Ubuntu Linux and the forks related.

==== Personal ====

* Help people and poor children of my city in the way that I can, especially education

* Make softwares related with education

==== Technician ====

* Algorithms

* Database

* Neuroscience
