{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About me ===
Im Daniel Zorro, SENA Computer Maintenance Technician, living at Bogotà, Colombia; Linux user since 2007.

=== Contact Info ===
* Email: .
* Launchpad Account: <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~dfoxpro]]</nowiki>.
* Nickname at forum: Amæth.
* Nickname at IRC: Amaeth on <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxpreview.org/cgi-bin/chat/irc.cgi|irc.freenode.net (#ubuntu-co)]]</nowiki>.
* Blog
http://trucos-ubuntu.blogspot.com/

=== Personal Objectives ===
# Free culture successfully carry as many people as possible.
# To un-slave some many people as far i can of private software and piracy.

=== Ubuntu-Co Objectives ===
# To offer support to the newbies people.
# To become in a active participant of FOSS events.

=== Contributions ===

Translations and bug reports.
# FLISOL Ubuntu Installation coordinator 2011
# FLISOL Ubuntu-co Expositor 2010
# FLISOL Installer 2009
# Participant Global Bug Jam Bogotá 2009-2
----

=== Presentación ===
Soy Daniel Zorro, Tecnico en mantenimiento de computadores del SENA, residente en Bogota Colombia, Usuario Linux desde el año 2007.

=== Información de contacto ===
* Email: .
* Cuenta de Launchpad: <nowiki>[[https://www.launchpad.net/~dfoxpro]]</nowiki>.
* Apodo en el Foro: Amæth.
* Apodo en IRC: Amaeth en la red <nowiki>[[http://www.linuxpreview.org/cgi-bin/chat/irc.cgi|irc.freenode.net (#ubuntu-co)]]</nowiki>.
* Blogs y demás
http://trucos-ubuntu.blogspot.com/

=== Objetivos personales ===
# Llevar satisfactoriamente la cultura Libre a tantas personas como sea posible.
# Alejar a tantas personas como sea posible de la exclavitud del software privativo y la pirateria.

=== Objetivos en Ubuntu-Co ===
# Poder dar soporte exitoso a personas nuevas en el tema
# Poder ser participe de los eventos y actividades de la comunidad

=== Contribuciones ===

Traducciones e reportes de bugs.
# FLISOL coordinador de installaciones Ubuntu 2011
# Expositor del stand ubuntu en FLISOL 2010
# Instalador FLISOL 2009.
# Participante de Globar Bug Jam
----
CategoryHomepage

CategoryColombianTeam CategoryColombianTeam
