{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''''Description''''
I've been doing python and linux for about 4 months. While attempting to find the best IDE there were many difficulties along the way (especially since I wanted a free one) and rarely could I find a simple to use one for linux. Therefore, my main goal is to accomplish the creation of a beginner's IDE comparison, in which I will compare such programs as IDLE, Dr. Python and Eric. The basis for my comparison are undecided and ever changing, sometimes it takes an experience without something to recognize it. I will also be reporting my findings as well as other adventures on http://linus.yhspatriot.net/cs/at/students/Folsom_Fairweather, my computer science website. 

"There are two steps to success: 1)Never tell everything you know."

'''Contact Information:'''
Email: danielfolsom@gmail.com
These reviews are subject to change until this message disappears, once I have reviewed all I will go back and see some of the more complex features
'''NOTE: For all 10 is the most desirable, the least amount of bugs the best layout, and 1 is the worst.'''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| 
| Dr. Python
| 
| PIDA
| 
| SPE
| 
| Eric 3
| 
| Boa Constructor
| 
| IDLE
| 
| Geany
|-
| Ease
| 
| 10
| 
| 9
| 
| 7
| 
| 7
| 
| 7
| 
| 9
| 
| 9
|-
| Layout
| 
| 7
| 
| 8
| 
| 10
| 
| 3
| 
| 4
| 
| 7
| 
| 10
|-
| Features
| 
| 2
| 
| 7
| 
| 8
| 
| 6
| 
| 7
| 
| 0
| 
| 7
|-
| Bugs
| 
| 10
| 
| 10
| 
| 4
| 
| 10
| 
| NA
| 
| 10
| 
| 10
|-
| First Impression
| 
| 8
| 
| 9
| 
| 7
| 
| 5
| 
| 6
| 
| 5
| 
| 10
|-
| Overall Impression
| 
| 7
| 
| 8
| 
| 6
| 
| 5
| 
| 3
| 
| 4
| 
| 9
|-
| Average Score
| 
| 7.33
| 
| 8.5
| 
| 7.0
| 
| 6
| 
| 4.5
| 
| 5.83
| 
| 9.17
|}

'''About Dr. Python'''
Dr. Python has two modes: Advanced and Beginner. There is really not that big a difference, except for a few extra features, I recommend the advanced, since it has everything the beginner version has, and is still very easy to use. However, even with the advanced setting the features are rather non-existent – nothing compared to the other programs. I can only see this being done by the very beginners, as in maybe (MAYBE!) the first week. While its has fixed most bugs, and it has a very easy to use format, the lack of features takes away from its layout and ability. Frankly I think there are just better options, but this is definitely the most consistent of the ones I have tried. 

'''About PIDA'''
Pida is a great program - no doubt about it. However minor improvements must be made. While the layout (except for a small shell - which in all fairness you can expand in a separate window) is amazing, there are certain parts of this program that need work. The most important of these is the Auto-Completion of Keyword function. This program works by guessing what you intend to type, and shows you a menu of what they guess you will go with. The difficulty with this is, if you're like me, and you like to type (for example, print) keywords out rather than select it from a menu - you have to be careful. You can finish typing, but you have to hit enter to move on, hitting space as you would do without the function completely closes PIDA (as I found out so many times). Another problem is sometimes you have to select run (which is F5) multiple times, which isn't that big a deal, but still notable. I would only recommend PIDA to those who can easily remember to hit enter to move on, so beginners would probably like this program because they could become accustomed to the extra action, rather than having experienced users having to learn something new.

'''About SPE'''
I did not have much experience with SPE before I realized it was worthless. I started with one of my more advanced programs, but I have a tendency to involve the user in all my programs, say x=raw_import or something along those lines. Imports of any kind are impossible with SPE. I worked with it along with other classmates for quite sometime before I gave up, there is now way for a user to type for a import. I think this alone makes the program unusable - especially for beginners, and therefore cannot recommend it to any. However that being said I have heard advantages to SPE with a python card that I am not aware of due to me not knowing what a python card is. Either way, since this rating system is supposed to be beginner friendly, I recommend this to no one.

'''About Eric 3'''
I focus on layout. Period. I believe that an easy layout is necessary to a beginners experience. Eric 3 does not have a good layout. Everything is very crowded and very small. The shell was really too small, as was the typing area. Overall running the program and input had no difficulties, however many of the features were pointless. I would not recommend this to beginners, only to experienced users who enjoy almost pointless features. Many things are hurt by the crowded layout, the ease of use, first impression and even overall impression, however if the layout is fixed it has potential to be a very good program.

'''About Boa Constructor'''
Ahh, what is there to say about Boa Constructor. Well for starters, the layout was awkward and crowded, like Eric 3 it had way too many extra features. There were three separate windows, 1 that had the main buttons, one for the editor that had the run buttons, and one for an inspector – really it should only be one window, because it could all fit, it was like pieces of a puzzle that fit together, but for some reason were seperated. I could not even figure how to run a program though. I searched everywhere and clicked “Run application” and “Run module” many times, it never came up. Because of this I can't recommend this to anyone, unless someone figures out how to run it.

'''About IDLE'''
There was really no noticeable difference between IDLE and a regular terminal. It had not features – NONE!  It was really overall just pointless. The layout was also odd, the text was extremely tiny, however the color pattern was relatively good. Although there were no apparent bugs, I can really see no reason to use IDLE when compared to the other programs, well except for maybe Boa Constructor. 

This finishes off my report, but remember, I will be back soon going into some of the deeper aspects. I am going to work on a pacman project for a while, see my website for updates. See you all soon!

To test : Editran, Geany
