{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I am a professional software engineer.  I graduated B.CompSc, the University of Melbourne, Australia.  Over 15 years professional experience.  Currently based in central Europe.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| pocock
|-
| XMPP
| xmpp:daniel@pocock.com.au
|-
| Email
| daniel@pocock.com.au
|-
| Website
| http://danielpocock.com
|}

=== Contributions ===

==== Real-time multimedia communications and VoIP ====

I have been actively working to enable real-time communications (VoIP, video and IM) using free software.  Making such free solutions as easy to deploy as possible, by packaging them for the major Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org|Debian]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://www.fedoraproject.org|Fedora]]</nowiki>.

* As an upstream developer, I have put significant effort in to making <nowiki>[[http://www.resiprocate.org|reSIProcate]]</nowiki> suitable for packaging in Linux distributions such as Ubuntu, including a complete overhaul of the build system (it now uses autotools) <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/resiprocate|reSIProcate on launchpad]]</nowiki>
* Documenting how real-time multimedia communications can be implemented on major Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, on the <nowiki>[[http://www.rtcquickstart.org|Real-time communications (RTC) quick start guide]]</nowiki>
* I have updated <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VoIP|VoIP]]</nowiki> information on the Ubuntu wiki to integrate with the current state of these projects

==== Financial software ====

Much of my professional experience is in financial services, with a focus on front office trading and connectivity solutions.

I have been active in packaging some of the leading open source financial software products, including:

* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openmama|OpenMAMA]]</nowiki>, the real-time messaging and market price data distribution system open-sourced by <nowiki>[[http://www.nyse.com|NYSE]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks|PostBooks]]</nowiki>, a comprehensive small business accounting, CRM and ERP solution with a multi-user Qt-based GUI, using PostgreSQL as the backend

==== Other projects ====

Please see <nowiki>[[http://danielpocock.com/open-source-software-projects|this page]]</nowiki> for a more detailed overview of the free software projects I contribute to across a range of platforms, including <nowiki>[[http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=daniel@pocock.com.au|Debian]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://admin.fedoraproject.org/pkgdb/users/packages/pocock|Fedora]]</nowiki>

My free software contributions are not intended to be exclusive to Ubuntu or any other distribution, I believe in the expression that a rising tide lifts all boats.  In the world of real-time communications software, the most important thing is to enable interoperability between platforms and I have been particularly dedicated to making sure that these solutions work on Ubuntu just as well as any other major platform I support.

=== Future Goals ===

Improving interoperability of real-time communications software on all the major Linux distributions.

Making <nowiki>[[http://www.webrtc.org|WebRTC]]</nowiki> work successfully on Linux, both on servers and desktops.  For example, extending the <nowiki>[[http://www.drucall.org|DruCall]]</nowiki> module for Drupal and making it fully installable with '''apt-get'''.

=== Testimonials ===

If you know me and have something nice to say, please leave a comment here.

==== Dmitry Shachnev ====
<pre>
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

I have sponsored three syncs for Daniel, and they have been mostly
looking good. With resiprocate, there were some problems related to
Ubuntu Saucy specific build failures, and Daniel quickly worked with
upstream to fix those.

Areas to improve: it would be nice if Daniel had filed freeze exceptions
before requesting sponsorship after freeze, and did better testing to
make sure his packages build on development release.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.15 (GNU/Linux)
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=asUR
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
</pre>

===== Specific Experiences of working together =====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Version
|-
| SourcePackage:resiprocate
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-saucy-+source-resiprocate-1.8.12-2- | 1.8.12-2 ]]</nowiki>
|-
| SourcePackage:resiprocate
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-saucy-+source-resiprocate-1.8.13-1- | 1.8.13-1 ]]</nowiki>
|-
| SourcePackage:ganglia-nagios-bridge
| <nowiki>[[ http:--launchpad.net-ubuntu-saucy-+source-ganglia-nagios-bridge-1.0.1-1- | 1.0.1-1 ]]</nowiki>
|}

==== Daniel Holbach (dholbach) ====
I sponsored a couple of syncs for Daniel and he was always quick to respond. I very much agree with Dmitry has to say.

A few syncs I did:
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1224928
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1224933
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openmama/+bug/1235776
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1224926
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1235674
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks-schema-quickstart/+bug/1235736
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks-schema-demo/+bug/1235735
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1229321
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks-schema-empty/+bug/1235733
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1229319
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1225003
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/resiprocate/+bug/1235787
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1224935
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1229316
* https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postbooks/+bug/1235737

==== Iain Lane (laney) ====

I sponsored syncs of netxx and openmama in the Saucy cycle for Daniel. I recall the packages were fine and that there was correct and appropriate interaction with the release team, as these were while we were under feature freeze.
