{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

Planlægning af evt. fejring af udgivelsen af Feisty d. 19 april i København, Danmark.

We are celebrating the release of Feisty Fawn on Thursday 19th of April in Copenhagen, Denmark.

=== Hvad sker? / What happens? ===

Tordag d. 19 april 2007 bliver Ubuntu 7.04 (Feisty Fawn) udgivet (hvis alt går som planlagt). 
Det er en oplagt lejlighed til at mødes med andre Ubuntu brugere og være lidt sociale, styrke "community'en" osv.

Thursday is the release of 7.04 (if all goes as planned) - this is a great opportunity to meet other users in person and to socilize, strengthen the community and just mingle/learn/exchange ideas.

NEW! Check out the webcam at http://kasper.myram.dk/webcam

=== Hvornår? When? ===

  Den 19. april 2007 @ 19.00

  The 19th of April 2007 @ 7.00pm

=== Hvor? Where? ===

  Brønshøj Nye Selskabslokaler og Hotel http://brhhotel.dk/
  Der skulle være mulighed for netadgang og øl/vand til rimelige priser.
  http://www.findvej.dk/Pr%E6steg%E5rdsAll%E919,2700

  Netaccess available - beer/softdrinks at reasonable prices

=== Hvem? Who? ===

Skriv dig gerne på hvis du kommer og om du evt. har lyst til at underholde med et eller andet.

Put your name on the list if you plan to come and if you possibly could "entertain" with something.

  SørenBredlundCaspersen

  MichaelHastrupBendsen (MikeDK)

  KasperMyram (OZ8AAZ) - in charge of room + drinks + sloppy translation of this page, will bring small bag of tricks ;)

  Søren Nielsen (<nowiki>[[Nebulus]]</nowiki>)

  BrianLagoni (forventer at jeg kommer)

  FabioMassimoDiNitto (might come if somebody can traslate this page for me ;) ps OZ8AAZ i got your message on IRC.)

  Kenneth Nielsen <nowiki>[[Tle]]</nowiki> (Jeg har et lille indlæg med om oversættelse af frit software)

  Ask Hjorth Larsen ("AskHL")

=== Andet? ===

Ideer osv. velkomne! Tænk højt, tænk skævt og lad os få en hyggelig eftermiddag / aften.
Se evt. også mailinglisten https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-dk
