{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== DanielNeuenschwander ==

I'm 16 years old from Switzerland, doing an IT-Apprenticeship in Swiss Federal Parliamentary Services, Berne

=== The Essential-stuff :] ===
eMail: neuenschwander@dev.erased.ch

IRC: Freenode | #ubuntuusers-devel | #ubuntu-motu | Nickname: DanielN

=== Servers I'm playing with ===
Compaq box running Ubuntu Hoary, used as:

* <nowiki>[[http://marissa.ath.cx/daniel/archive|devel-repository]]</nowiki>
* Printserver
* Samba-Fileserver

=== The Bio-stuff ===

Since I was 9 or 10 years old, I started with Computers. (Mostly tried to run DOS games under Win 3.11, without success ;) ) Later in time I began to create websites and a bit later I discovered PHP, which was (and still is) my first love script-language :) 
Working with Windows XP, I tried to discover GNU/Linux with some test installations (Mandrake, Fedora). I read about Ubuntu at News-pages, so I've bought a second Harddisk for my workstation, to run Ubuntu. It's my absolutely main OS now. 

=== The Ubuntu-stuff ===
I'm trying to train my packaging skills .. 
Looking for a free MOTU-job ;)

Current Packages:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| * when 1.0.23-0ubuntu1
| A simple calendar-script written in Perl.
|}

Also helping with Cxx-transition where I can.

Tell me your stuff, finding good software to package is difficult :>
----
CategoryHomepage
