{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Aquí la versión en español: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanielMato/es

=== About Me ===

Hi, i'm from Uruguay, non linear video editor at work, and an active member of the Ubuntu-UY community since 05/05/2006 - http://ubuntu.org.uy/

I'm member of the Ubuntu Uruguay Community Council and member of the Educational team.

I've started with gnu/linux with knoppix as an experiment, i'm user of Ubuntu since Edgy Eft, nowadays i'm still using only Ubuntu as my personal sistem.

* https://launchpad.net/~danielmato

=== My Goals ===

* Keep giving support in Ubuntu community.

* Contribute in the development of Ubuntu

* Contribute en the development of teaching tools for education in audio and video edition and composition.

* Contribute on the creation of manuals and tutorials in spanish.

=== Team member of ===

* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uy
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuconla
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uy-council
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uy-eventos
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-uy-educacion
* https://launchpad.net/~locoteams
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-es-locos
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-users
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-es
* https://launchpad.net/~ubuntumembers
 

=== Ubuntu community contributions ===

* Since 2007 al 2010 - Forum activity and colabaration in tutorials.

* 04/24/2010 - Flisol - Ubuntu Team - Installfest
* 04/09/2011 - Flisol - Ubuntu team - Installfest - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.106780679406516.14524.100002237529959&type=3
* 07/05/2011 - Presentation - Ubuntu 11.04 - Community - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.113687592049158.26709.100002237529959&type=3
* 05/14/2011 - Migration - Uruguay-Pirí School - Ubuntu 11.04.
* 05/24/2010 - Uruguay-Pirí School - Talk with parents
* 11/10/2011 - 25/11/2012 - Workshop - Computing for parents - Uruguay-Pirí School.
* 11/29/2011 - Presentation 11.10 - Redes sociales - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.179790502105533.46809.100002237529959&type=3
* 01/14/2012 - User day - Open workshop - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.380306105387304.90904.100002237529959&type=1&l=3f9bc04bb2
* 04/28/2012 - Flisol - Stand Ubuntu - Demonstrations - http://www.flickr.com/photos/ratman_uy/sets/72157629927561155/detail/
* 05/19/2012 - Ubuntu workshop - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.299214953496420.69984.100002237529959&type=3
* 06/01/2012 - UbuConLA Bs.As. - Talk - Migration de Uruguay-Pirí School - http://www.ubuconla.org/ - http://mhoyos.atpic.com/ubuconla2012
* 06/02/2012 - UbuConLA Bs.As. - Talk - Multimedia with free tools
* 05/07/2012 - Presentation 12.04 - Community
* 07/07/2012 - JPC-ONG - Migration - Lubuntu 12.04.
* 07/28/2012 - Ubuntu workshop - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.380305538720694.90903.100002237529959&type=1&l=f6fc1e5861 
* 08/18/2012 - JPC - Ubuntu, talk for teachers - community, sistem, personalization
* 10/27/2012 - Presentation 12.10 - Personalizing the Quetzal - https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.380304418720806.90901.100002237529959&type=1&l=3966bd4041
* 07 - 08/06/2013 - UbuConLA. Organization, stands, workshops - http://www.ubuconla.org/
* 07/06/2013 - UbuConLA - Talk - Multimedia with OpenSource.

Others:

* Colaboration in the new home page for Ubuntu-UY, graphics designs and beta testing.

* Launchpad Answers.

* Ubuntu-UY forums.

* Social networks, FB, G+, Ubuntu-UY forums - https://plus.google.com/u/0/100730390450575319673/posts - http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=414 - https://www.facebook.com/groups/41077226279/

* Calaboration in UbuConLA 2012 and 2013 organization.

=== Testimonials ===

I met Daniel a few years ago when he joined the Uruguay LoCo team, and since that time he has shown everything it takes to be a key part of the community, working hard and always trying to bring solutions instead of problems. He is just one of those guys you want to meet when you are a new user, helping you in every way he can. This is why I support Daniel to become an Ubuntu Member. <nowiki>[[PabloRubianes|Pablo Rubianes]]</nowiki>

{*} I testify!! Daniel is an awesome member of Ubuntu Uruguay, I saw his contributions to his team and how he works, he is also an wonderful person, in my opinion he will be an excellent UbuntuMember and I take this chance for saying he is working very hard with the <nowiki>[[http://pablorubianes.wordpress.com/2012/11/23/ubuconla-2013/|UbuConLA 2013]]</nowiki>. SergioMeneses

I met Daniel when we organize UbuconLA 2012 and proved to be a reliable person, with a great positive energy and optimism, always colaborating to get things done.
I support his membership! <nowiki>[[Euzkoarima|Eduardo Zúñiga]]</nowiki>

I met Daniel at a ceremony to launch Ubuntu, always ready and working hard to help, providing solutions for users and the Ubuntu Team Uruguay.
That's why support for Daniel to become an Ubuntu Member. <nowiki>[[CarlosNeyPastor]]</nowiki> - Ubuntu-uy Community Council
 
----
CategoryHomepage
