{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Proposed agenda for the Xubuntu meeting (2006-03-16, 16:00 UTC on #xubuntu-meeting)

=== 1. Panel goodies ===

Quick overview of the plugins not yet in dapper

* Ready-to-upload plugins
* Need-to-be-worked-on plugins
* Not-yet-ported-to-new-panel plugins

-- Nomed : xfce4-weather-plugin works fine for me but it doesn't for Jani and Gauvain, we should debug it.

=== 2. Localisation Issues ===

The issues listed here are typically relevant to Indic L10N. Please add to them if you think there are other issues that need to be addressed. -- SoumyadipModak

* '''Integration of Input Managers, especially scim''' :  <nowiki>[[http://www.indlinux.org|Indlinux]]</nowiki> encourages the use of SCIM as the preferred IM for supporting Indic Languages and Dapper itself is probably going to use SCIm as the default Input manager. SoumyadipModak has personally used SCIM on XFCE for Indic languages without any problems, but more testing needed to check whether SCIM fails to address issues with other languages, including CJK among others
* '''Selecting and Installing support for additional languages''' :  In Dapper, the default way to add support for languages not listed in the Installer is by the Language Selector. This tool generates the appropriate locales and installs the appropriate language packs and input managers. How do we present the same functionality in Xubuntu ? And how are the translations themselves be handled ? Will they be integrated into XFCE ? Or will we have language packs like Ubuntu ?
* '''Possibility of using Rosetta to manage translations''' : Is it possible to use Rosetta to contribute translations to XFCE ? Can Xubuntu maintain the infrastructure on Rosetta and take up the work of synchronising the translations in Rosetta with CVS/SVN ?

=== 3. Archive Manager ===

Xarchiver seems the best candidate as Xubuntu Archive Manager.

<nowiki>[[http://xarchiver.sourceforge.net/|xarchiver]]</nowiki>

The official release is v0.3, v0.4 will include iso support and a Thunar plugin.

It's possible the release will be at the end of March.

We should discuss what version to pkge untill the release considering that by monday the developer will set up a bzr repo.

=== 4. XubuntuDapperLook ===

No news from this front, #dapper-look is not really active anymore, we need to contact the artist that should have something ready for xubuntu but not for  this meeting.

=== 5. Iso image ===

Will a Dapper XFlight be available?<<BR>>
With an iso, people will certainly try to install Xubuntu before the stable release, and we'll have more chance to correct bugs.

=== 6. Future meetings ===

Decide on a more regular and predictable meeting schedule so it can be advertised on the fridge and elsewhere
