{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Daniel Prinz ===

Deutsche Übersetzung weiter unten. / German translation below.

==== English ====

Email: 

Location: Kreuzlingen
<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</nowiki>

Occupation: I am writing my diploma thesis in discrete-event simulations and automation and will work as developer and project manager in an internet marketing company in Konstanz/Germany starting in April.

I am offering free installation and usage support for Ubuntu and Kubuntu.
CDs can be obtained from me but i won't send them to you. For shipping CDs. got to https://shipit.ubuntu.com/.

==== German ====

Email: 
Kreuzlingen
<nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switzerland|Switzerland]]</nowiki>

Berufstätigkeit: Ich schreibe derzeit meine Diplomarbeit über Diskrete Simulation und Automatisierungstechnik und werde ab April in Konstanz als Entwickler und Projektmanager für eine Internetmarketing-Gesellschaft in Konstanz/Deutschland arbeiten.

Ich biete kostenlosen Installions- und Bedienungssupport für Ubuntu und Kubuntu an.
CDs können bei mir abgeholt werden, ich versende sie jedoch nicht. Für Versand wendet Euch an https://shipit.ubuntu.com/.
