{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

Hello, I am Daniel. 

I was born in the 1980s, trained as a physicist, and taught myself everything I know about technology in obsessive detail over the course of two decades.

I began to use Ubuntu around ~2007/ 2008, initially due to my fascination with technology and wanting to understand everything I could, then as a functional necessity. During my university years, I learned Fortran (77, 90, 95) for my computational classes and honours. In order to write and compile the programs the class would telnet to a UNIX (or UNIX-like, I never found out) server on the campus upon which we'd use micro-emacs to craft our programs. Back then broadband was relatively new and the connections were not always very stable, leading to disconnection upon disconnection and lost work. Upon learning that Ubuntu had gfortran in the archive I learned how to install the tool chain at home, write and compile the programs and then ship the sources to the university server via FTP whereupon the workd could be submitted. That was a colossal improvement in quality of life and it also meant I could keep an archive of all of my work, something I doubt many of my peers did. The full story is longer, but this is version that respects everyone's time.

These days I run an Ubuntu focused technical community, though people from all areas of the technology ecosystem are encouraged to join us regardless of their preferred operating system.

Side note: I like to make music.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Email
| contact@danieldewberry.com
|-
| Website
| https://DanielDewberry.com
|-
| Launchpag
| https://launchpad.net/~dwd-daniel
|}

=== Contributions ===

I have: 

* been a core member of Ubuntu Hideout since Q3 2018 and co-owner since Q2 2020, during which time I have
** helped a number of young people learn how to program or progress from beginner to intermediate programmer
** answered hundreds (potentially more) of questions seeking support for their Linux system (usually Ubuntu)
** organised partnerships and collaborations with Ubuntu
** organised competitions and giveaways 
** tackled all of the things that come with running a public community
* advocated for Snaps and Snapcraft
* submitted two pull-requests to the Snapcraft project, which were merged, to enhance the tool. 
** the first enabled architecture metrics to be accessed via the CLI tool
** the second added a metrics export format
* advocated for Ubuntu
* advocated for technologies such as LXD
* attended Ubuntu Summit 2023 (thank you Mauro)
* occasionally written articles on my website about things I consider to be interesting that I have achieved, often related to Ubuntu 
* provided moderation advice to other parts of the Ubuntu community
* provided community advice to other parts of the Ubuntu community
* submitted bugs when possible

=== Future Goals ===

I intend to continue running Ubuntu Hideout with out team, to enable aspiring technology enthusiasts to "find their tribe" and get the support they need to take their interest as far as they so desire. This has lead to a number of occasions where members have reported that they were able to secure a position at a university to pursue their chosen field thanks to our help and the help of our community.

I also have a number of ideas that I'm working on in the background which will remain private until such a time as they are ready to be brought to fruition. 

=== Testimonials ===

'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".
