{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Table of contents''' <<BR>>
|}
== 2011 ==
=== KEY DATA ===
* '''Date:''' June 2nd 2011
* '''Team Contact:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laoshi|Flemming Christensen (laoshi)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~soeren-b-c|Søren Bredlund Caspersen (sbc]]</nowiki>)
* '''Council:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~soeren-b-c|Søren Bredlund Caspersen (sbc)]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~eitreach|Christoffer Kiilerich Nielsen (eitreach)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ajenbo|Anders Jenbo (AJenbo]]</nowiki>), <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~michael-soundpartner|Michael Jensen (soundpartner]]</nowiki>), <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~kjoller|Niels Kjøller Hansen (Kjoller)]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laoshi|Flemming Christensen (laoshi)]]</nowiki>
* '''Membership:''' <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-dk|50 active members June 2011]]</nowiki>
=== RESSOURCES ===
* <nowiki>[[#ubuntu-dk|IRC channel]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[mailto:ubuntu-dk@lists.ubuntu.com|Team Mailing List]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum|Team Forum]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk|Team Website]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://planet.ubuntudanmark.dk/|Planet Ubuntu-dk]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.facebook.com/UbuntuDanmark|Facebook group]]</nowiki>
=== ACTIVITIES ===
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-da|Translation team]]</nowiki> - 99% of Ubuntu-UI is translated,and 66,7% of packages available through launchpad.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum|Forum]]</nowiki> with 4930 registered users, 12683 topics, and about 20 very active supporters.From 01.01.2011 to 06.06.2011 807 users have shown activity on the forum. <nowiki>[[http://www.stopforumspam.com/contributors|1759 (and rising) spammers reported to stopforumspam]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[#ubuntu-dk|IRC-support]]</nowiki>, where about 40 persons are constantly hanging out.
* <nowiki>[[#ubuntu-dk-moede|IRC-meeting]]</nowiki> is held once a month or as needs be.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/aarhus|Local activities in Aarhus]]</nowiki> – the second lagest city in Denmark, in cooperation with <nowiki>[[http://osaa.dk|OSAA ‘Open Space Aarhus’ hackerspace]]</nowiki>. Starting in November 2009 people get together in OSAA every two weeks for conferences, lectures, workshops and social networking, e.g. <nowiki>[[http://osaa.dk/2011/05/ubuntu-arhus-torsdag|unity usability test, May 2011]]</nowiki>
* Senior member and founder of ubuntudanmark-dk, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~pihl|Martin Pihl]]</nowiki>, is regularly lecturing and giving <nowiki>[[http://www.praktisk-linux.dk/|courses]]</nowiki> on open source, Ubuntu, and community building.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/k%C3%B8benhavn/|Local activities in Copenhagen]]</nowiki>: <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum/viewtopic.php?f=1&amp;t=13402#p85827|Ubuntu Café]]</nowiki> is open from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. on the first Monday of each month at a fixed address in Copenhagen.
* Members participate on various fora, not least when <nowiki>[[http://www.dr.dk/dr2/soeinding/?p=1599|Ubuntu 10.10 was reviewed on the main national TV-channel in February 2011]]</nowiki>.
* Several members of the community have websites solely or mostly dedicated to Ubuntu, e.g.  <nowiki>[[http://www.freedomnotbeer.dk/index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=86&amp;Itemid=88|Arvai’s install guide and faq]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://go-ubuntu.dk|go-ubuntu.dk]]</nowiki>, or <nowiki>[[http://scripts.linux.dk|soundpartner’s scripts]]</nowiki>
=== EXPERIENCE ===
* Sept. 2009 to june 2010 <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/podcast|5 podcasts were produced]]</nowiki>.
* September 9th 2010, participation in <nowiki>[[http://osl.dk|OSL]]</nowiki> (association of open source procurers) <nowiki>[[http://blog.magenta-aps.dk/osl-arrangerer-openoffice-konference-9-september| OpenOffice conference]]</nowiki> in Copenhagen.
* In November 2010 Ubuntu Aarhus arranged a <nowiki>[[http://martinpihl.dk/blog/handing-out-ubuntu-cds|release party in a central Mall in Aarhus]]</nowiki> where about 120 cd’s were handed out and many contacts made.
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/blog/artikler/2011/02/16/overs%C3%A6ttelsesarrangement|Translation jam in Copenhagen, February  2011]]</nowiki>.
* March 13th 2011 Søren Bredlund Caspersen and Anders Jenbo, both members of team council, were <nowiki>[[http://vimeo.com/20974705|interviewed on Kanaltux]]</nowiki>
* March 23rd 2011, <nowiki>[[http://www.opensourcedays.org|participation in OSD at Copenhagen Business School]]</nowiki> - <nowiki>[[http://www.kanaltux.dk/2011/03/13/kanaltux-season-1-opensource-day-special|documented on Kanaltux]]</nowiki>
* Participation in <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/blog/artikler/2011/03/28/ubuntu-global-jam|Global Jam, April 2nd 2011]]</nowiki>
* Martin Pihl gave an <nowiki>[[http://www.dr.dk/harddisken/blog/2010/04/29/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx-er-pa-gaden|interview on DR, the national radio channel, Danmarks Radio, April 2010]]</nowiki>.
* A <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/forum/viewtopic.php?f=1&amp;t=13773|release party was held in Copenhagen on May 2nd 2011 in Ubuntu Café]]</nowiki>
* General Assembly was held on irc on May 15th with election of council, and budget as main elements.
* A total redesign of the Team Website and Forum was one of the major efforts during 2010.
=== ROADMAP ===
==== General ====
* Consolidation of activities in OSAA and Copenhagen Ubuntu Café.
* The newly elected council has decided to give priority to: promoting mentoring, promoting writing of guides, drawing more people into active loco-work.
* Planning is ongoing for Release Party.
* Priority on more systematic distribution of the official CDs.
==== Specific ====
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/blog/artikler/2011/06/20/bliv-mentor-eller-fa-dig-en-mentor/|Mentoring has just been launched, June 2011]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/aarhus/2011/06/18/ubuntuaarhus-pa-next/|Activities in Aarhus]]</nowiki> August 27t to 30th in connection with <nowiki>[[http://ubuntudanmark.dk/aarhus/2011/06/18/ubuntuaarhus-pa-next/|NEXT]]</nowiki>
