{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Please read first <nowiki>[[DanieleFavara/Xubuntu| here]]</nowiki> 

Subscribe yourself to this page if you want to be notified of updates

On each sections there are links to xubuntu-devel threads, launchpad specs and apps home pages.

Meeting Infos:

'''irc.freenode.net #ubuntu-meeting 20:00 UTC'''

''we should discuss all the items briefly and on a case by case basis decide how to
continue discussing the issue and who is in charge of various tasks. Let's all who intend to
participate read the agenda and prepare what we have to say in advance when possible.''

== ProposedAgenda ==

=== 1) Pkges Selection ===

* in main
* no gnome deps
* devided in 
** installed
** installable

==== TODO: ====

'''a)''' Define a complete and definitive list of pkges to include in xubuntu install cd:

** Player
** Pdf Viewer
** '''Burner'''
** '''Mail Client'''
** '''Archive Manager'''

'''b)''' Define the allowed gnome dependencies:

 
* libgnomeprint2.2-0
* libgnomeprintui2.2-0
* libgnomecanvas2-0
* gnome-keyring, gconf2, gksu (needed for gdm)

'''c)''' Specify on XubuntuDoc that there are "installed" and "installable" applications cause of the xubuntu main target

'''d)''' Xubuntu-desktop Packages still in universe

* most are in universe now but being promoted

==== COMMENTS: ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Player
|-
| name
| main
| why?
| vote
|-
| '''xfmedia'''
| no
| it can play mp3,ogg,dvd,audio cd
| {*}
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Pdf Viewer
|-
| name
| main
| why?
| vote
|-
| '''evince'''
| yes
| it's the only usable viewer in gtk, it still has gnome deps
| {*} {*}
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Burner
|-
| name
| main
| why?
| vote
|-
| '''graveman'''
| no
| the only alternative is gnomebaker
| {*}
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Mail Cient
|-
| name
| main
| why?
| vote
|-
| '''sylpheed-claws-gtk2'''
| no
| it has many plugins and maybe it'll be possible to integrate galago
| {*}
|}

=== 2) Is the aim to be as well-integrated as Ubuntu? ===

* NetworkMagic
* PowerManagement
* DesktopNotifications
* VolumeManager (thunar,ivman)
* DesktopIcons

==== TODO: ====

'''a)''' Decide if to install ivman, thunar can automount devices now but it can't perform actions.
Xubuntu has to be as user-friendly as Ubuntu.

==== COMMENTS: ====

=== 3) Artwork ===

* color palette
* logo
* icon theme

==== TODO: ====

'''a)''' Define the definitive color palette to be used in the:

* logo
* gtkrc theme

'''b)''' Define the xubuntu icon theme, when this is done we should begin to check if the environment is homogeneus:

* panel icons
* xfce-setting-show icons
* .....

Next step will be to work on the xubuntu-artwork pkge.

==== COMMENTS: ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Colors + Logo
|-
| name
| 
| vote
|-
| '''something here'''
| link here
| {*}
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Icon Theme
|-
| name
| 
| vote
|-
| '''tango'''
| <nowiki>[[http://tango-project.org|link]]</nowiki>
| {*}
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Gtkrc Theme
|-
| name
| 
| vote
|-
| '''graphiteSP'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=35444|link]]</nowiki>
| {*}
|-
| '''Gentle'''
| <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=35516|link]]</nowiki>
| {*} {*}
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Icon Theme
|-
| name
| 
| vote
|-
| '''tango'''
| <nowiki>[[http://tango-project.org|link]]</nowiki>
| {*}
|-
| '''yasis'''
| <nowiki>[[http://art.gnome.org/themes/icon/1168|link]]</nowiki>
| {*}
|}

=== 4) Tasks ===

'''a)''' Devide tasks to write down a todo list for next meeting.
