{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This is not the official Xubuntu wiki page'''

== Xubuntu ==
==== Packages ====
* xubuntu-desktop - Xubuntu desktop system
* xubuntu-live - Xubuntu live system

* xubuntu-artwork - Xubuntu themes and artwork

* xubuntu-default-settings - default settings for Xubuntu

* xubuntu-docs - xubuntu documentation

==== Description ====
Although the constant increment of the performances of the hardware in commerce and in spite of the lower prices of the RAMs, it is still important to have the possibility to install a minimal but usable system on old machines. The Ubuntu distribution adopts Gnome, Kubuntu the heaviest KDE, while the Xubuntu choice is Xfce, a modern and light desktop manager. The default Xubuntu will emphasize small footprint over friendliness when there's a choice, since the latter is the primary focus of gnome and kde. By basic tasks It's meant web,chat and office, most frequently done in internet cafes, school classes, offices, which do not really include photo editing and playing video, anyway many applications for more specific tasks will be installable from the CD.

==== Links ====
* Xubuntu
* XubuntuDapperProgress
* XubuntuProposedPackages
* XubuntuArtwork
* MOTUXfce
* <nowiki>[[http://www.xfce.org|xfce.org]]</nowiki>

=== Xubuntu Desktop ===
==== Packages ====

[+] : in main
[-] : not in main

'''installed'''
* gdm [+]
* xfce4
** xfwm4 
** xfce-mcs-manager 
** xfce4-panel 
** xfce4-session 
** xfdesktop4 
** gtk2-engines-xfce 
** orage 
** thunar 
** xfce4-appfinder 
** xfce4-mcs-plugins 
** xfce4-mixer-alsa 
** xfce4-taskmanager [?]
** xfce4-terminal 
** xfce4-utils 
** xfprint4 

* gimp 
* gqview 
* gaim 
* firefox 
* xchat 
* abiword 
* evince-gtk
* graveman
* sylpheed-claws-gtk2 
* xine-ui [to check]
* xarchive(r)

'''installable'''

* imagemagick [+]
* dia [+]
* gthumb [-]
* inkscape [+]
* xfmedia [-]
* ivman [+]

==== Description ====
Xubuntu packages need to be in main so the CD build infrastructure works with them and so they can be supported in ubuntu-updates and ubuntu-security.

Xfce version of xubuntu cames from svn, and it's a <nowiki>[[http://foo-projects.org/pipermail/xfce4-dev/2006-February/018563.html|"beta" release of  4.4]]</nowiki> 

The default file manager will be Thunar, it has the Linux/HAL implementation of the ThunarVfsVolume and ThunarVfsVolumeManager interfaces, anyway it will improved and if not it's possible a volume manager as ivman will still be needed.

The packages selection will be divided in:

- installed pkges 
- installable pkges [not installed but on cdrom]

==== Implementation ====
Pkges with gnome dependencies are NOT installed.

gdm and evince should just be packaged, the "media player" is still an open discussion.

update-manager, update-notifier should be integrated too, MichaelVogt (co-maintainer of update manager) is working on this, he added xbuntu-desktop upgrading support, they will be ready for dapper.

The one worth looking at is hwdb-client. Jani filed a bug on gnome-python2 to have gnomecanvas splitted out to a separate package.

gnumeric-gtk requires deb packaging skills. The debian maintainer of gnumeric said he's willing to take pacthes to build a gtk-only version from the same source package. Since gnumeric depends on libgoffice that package has to be modified too. Both these have --disable-gnome switches from upstream so it is just a matter of packaging, but not trivial as the rules files are a bit complicated and the relation of the gtk-only vs gnome enabled version of these packages needs to be figured out. Whether they can be installed along eachoter or not, and if the former how to name the libraries.

Frontends to configure network and cups need coders.

Following a preview of the Xubuntu menu, where each package is placed on the menu section

* menu sections: /usr/share/desktop-directories/

* menu apps: /usr/share/applications
** <include type="system" />

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| development
| xfce4-development.directory
|-
| editors
| xfce4-editors.directory
|-
| edutainment
| xfce4-edutainment.directory
|-
| games
| xfce4-games.directory
|-
| graphics
| xfce4-graphics.directory
|-
| office
| kde-office.directory
|-
| internet
| xfce4-internet.directory
|-
| multimedia
| xfce4-multimedia.directory
|-
| utilities
| xfce4-utilities.directory
|}

====== Links ======
 
 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MenusRevisited|dapper menu]]</nowiki>
 
--------------------------- 
===== Xubuntu Editors =====
====== Packages ======
====== Description ======
====== Implementation ======
--------------------------- 
===== Xubuntu Graphics =====
====== Packages ======
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| package
| default install
| installable
| main
| approved
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.gimp.org/|gimp]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.imagemagick.org|imagemagick]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| pending
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://gqview.sourceforge.net/|gqview]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| no
| pending
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://hans.breuer.org/dia/|dia]]</nowiki>
| no
| yes
| yes
| pending
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://gthumb.sourceforge.net/|gthumb]]</nowiki>
| no
| yes
| yes
| pending
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.inkscape.org/|inkscape]]</nowiki>
| no
| yes
| yes
| pending
|}

====== Description ======
Xubuntu will provide tools for:

* advanced image editing (gimp,inkscape)
* image viewing (gqview)
* diagram creation (dia)

For advanced users is available imagemagick, a software suite to create, edit, and compose bitmap images. It can read, convert and write images in a large variety of formats. Most of the functionality of ImageMagick can be used interactively from the command line.

Tools for vector graphics and to Import images from a digital camera will be installable from the cdrom.

====== Implementation ======
gqview seems the only suitable imageviwer but it's not in main.

Unfortunatly Xubuntu lacks of a tool that can interact with the volume manager to import photos when a camera has been attached. As gnome dependent packages are not "allowed" gthumb can't be used, talking with the developer it seems it's not even possible to remove those deps. Anyway someone is working on porting features provided by libgomeui direclty to gtk+, in that case the developer will be happy to remove the libgnomeui dependencies.

* alternatives:
** gtkam[graphical]
** gphoto2[console]

====== Links ======

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000520.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

--------------------------- 
===== Xubuntu Multimedia =====
====== Packages ======

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| package
| default install
| installable
| main
| approved
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://spuriousinterrupt.org/projects/xfmedia|xfmedia]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| no
| yes
|}

====== Description ======

Xfmedia itself relies on one piece of software for all its audio/video work:<nowiki>[[http://xinehq.de/|xine-lib]]</nowiki>, which has various dependencies and requirements depending on which media formats you wish to be able to play; see the xine website for details.

It would be perfect if xfmedia can be used, but a different (media)player should be considered too:

alternatives:
* xmms
* bmp
* gxine
* grip
* xine-ui

xine-ui: to check libxine 

====== Implementation ======

Jukebox Centralization is good, right now there are many programs to do similar tasks, for example, there's a ripper, a cd player, a music jukebox, there should be a centralized jukebox with support for playing cd's & ripping, xfmedia has support for:

* audio cd
* dvd
* vcd
* ogg,mp3,avi ... 

Anyway that player has issues while playing audio cd, grip seems a better choice.

All this has to discussed with developers 

====== Links ======

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000465.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

--------------------------- 
===== Xubuntu Network =====
====== Packages ======
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| package
| default install
| installable
| main
| approved
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.mozilla.com/firefox/|firefox]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://links.twibright.com/|links2]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| no
| pending
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://gaim.sourceforge.net|gaim]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.xchat.org/|xchat]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://claws.sylpheed.org/|sylpheed-claws-gtk2]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| no
| pending
|}

====== Description ======

firefox,gaim and xchat are just fine, all in main and stable.

====== Implementation ======

There isn't still a mail client on xubuntu, a possible client is:

* <nowiki>[[http://claws.sylpheed.org/|sylpheed-claws-gtk2]]</nowiki> 

Firefox may be slow on a 64Mb machine, a console+graph browser as links2 could be included.

====== Links ======

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000605.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

--------------------------- 
===== Xubuntu Office =====
====== Packages ======

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| package
| default install
| installable
| main
| approved
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.abisource.com/|abiword]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|}

====== Description ======

The office suite will not be for sure OOo, even if it could be on the install cd (installable)

====== Implementation ======

Right now only abiword is included, and possibly gnumeric will. 

'''No presentation app'''

====== Links ======

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000543.html|xubutu-devel]]</nowiki>

--------------------------- 
=== Xubuntu Artwork ===
==== Packages ====
* gfxboot-theme-xubuntu
* xubuntu-artwork
* xubuntu-artwork-usplash

==== Description ====
logo ... palets ... wallpapers ...

==== Implementation ====
Artists will care about image and pkgers about image file name.

(Edubuntu has a nice artwork package that could be used as sample even for Xubuntu.)

an example:

''# apt-get source ubuntu-artwork''

''# cd ubuntu-artwork-0.2.27/art''

''# ls''

'''gdm  gnome  gtk  icons metacity  splash  wallpapers'''

* <nowiki>[[XubuntuArtworkLogo|logo]]</nowiki> : icons/hicolor/48x48/apps/distributor-logo.png
* <nowiki>[[XubuntuArtworkGdm|gmd]]</nowiki> : gdm/Xubuntu/
** background.png
** icon-language-active.png
** icon-language.png
** icon-language-prelight.png
** icon-reboot-active.png
** icon-reboot.png
** icon-reboot-prelight.png
** icon-session-active.png
** icon-session.png
** icon-session-prelight.png
** icon-shutdown-active.png
** icon-shutdown.png
** icon-shutdown-prelight.png
** screenshot.png
** ubuntu.png
* <nowiki>[[XubuntuArtworkWallpaper|wallpaper]]</nowiki>: wallpaper/
** dapper-final-wallpaper.png

at the moment xubuntu-artwork icludes just the xubuntu-artwork-usplash, and it could be reorginized as ubuntu-artwork packages.

====== Links ======

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000509.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000517.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000520.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

=== Xubuntu Utopia ===
==== Packages ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| package
| default install
| installable
| main
| approved
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://thunar.xfce.org/index.html|thunar]]</nowiki>
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| xubuntu-default-settings
| yes
| yes
| yes
| yes
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://ivman.sourceforge.net/|ivman]]</nowiki>
| ?
| yes
| yes
| yes
|}

==== Description ====

There are the pkges that affect the whole Xubuntu usability ....

''To discuss during the meeting''

==== Implementation ====

It needs actions for:

* audiocd : xubuntu player

* audiodvd: xubuntu player

* camera: xubuntu images viewer

* blank cdrom: xubuntu burner

* printers: just notification (?)
* battery: just notification (?)
* scanners: just notification (?)

There is a critical issue with ivman, it's not killed on_user_logout''' ''', if user A logout and user B login the ivman session of user A is still running

* a possible solution: http://www.dsslive.org/ivman-xubuntu.tar.gz
** issue: this setting solves the issue (--exit-with-session), but those scripts are not included in ivman
** <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000533.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>
** the --exit-with-session script i sent to the ivman developer is now included.

====== Links ======
 
 UdevRoadmap
 
 HardwareDetection

 HardwareActivation

 NetworkMagic
 

== Xubuntu.org ==

<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/xubuntu-devel/2006-February/000583.html|xubuntu-devel]]</nowiki>

== Important Pkges ==

The following pkges should be installed but they have still issues (most of them are not yet in main)

* evince (pdf viewer)
* gqview (image viewer)
* xfmedia (player)
* gnumeric

== Allowed Gnome Dependencies ==

* libgnomeprint2.2-0 
* libgnomeprintui2.2-0 
* libgnomecanvas2-0

== Ubuntu Dapper Specs Table ==

 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+specs|secstable in launchpad]]</nowiki>

 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DanieleFavara/Xubuntu/DapperGoals|Dapper Goals]]</nowiki>
 
 <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperReleaseSchedule|Dapper Release Schedule]]</nowiki>
