{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:40%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;">'''Contents'''<<BR>>
|}

'''I, dann frazier, apply for core-dev.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| dann frazier
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~dannf
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DannFrazier
|}

== Who I am ==
''I've been a Debian Developer for 12 years, and a Canonical employee for over 3 years. I like both free software and free beer. I'm experienced working with the kernel, server installer, security issues, autobuilders, packaging, etc.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''My first real involvement with Ubuntu was in a previous job at HP, probably sometime in 2009. I would resolve hardware support issues (often out of date drivers) with Ubuntu found by our QA team (working w/ Canonical as needed). I also worked directly with HP customers that used Ubuntu to help resolve issues, and packaged up various HP software components for Ubuntu on HP servers. What did I like about it? Helping users resolve real problems. What could I have done better? Actively seek out ProLiant/Ubuntu users to get a macro level view of the issues they were facing. I was otherwise mostly reactive.

My involvement with Ubuntu accelerated in 2010 when I was hired onto the Server OEM team at Canonical. Early on I was mostly working on customer issues througout the server stack (kernel, iSCSI, multipath-tools, etc). I later moved over to the hyperscale team where I found a focus on ARM servers. Lately I've been most notably involved with the arm64 port and related hardware enablement tasks.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
I'm very much a generalist, though I spend more time in the plumbing than with say desktop applications. When I run into a bug, I try to fix it. Often that is just finding the right patch upstream, backporting it and preparing a patch/merge proposal, but sometimes it involves digging a little deeper.

* During the devel cycle for 14.04, I did a lot of work on the qemu 1.7 packages to add aarch64 emulation support. The initial qemu-system and qemu-user-static packages were based on backport work I contributed (References: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/1.7.0+dfsg-2ubuntu6|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/1.7.0+dfsg-3ubuntu2|2]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/1.7.0+dfsg-3ubuntu4|3]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu/1.7.0+dfsg-3ubuntu5|4]]</nowiki>) which served as the ground work to get libvirt+qemu/kvm and eventually nova compute working in the distribution. This work eventually got replaced prior to 14.04 release by the timely release of QEMU 2.0 - but I still feel the "early access" availability was useful for unblocking developers higher up the stack, as well as providing useful feedback to the upstream project about issues I observed using the software in Ubuntu.
* I've done a lot of work on the flash-kernel package. Mostly adding support for new platforms, but also some <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flash-kernel/+bug/1328597|work]]</nowiki> on providing an interface for packages and/or admins to drop in u-boot script snippets, and some <nowiki>[[http://anonscm.debian.org/cgit/d-i/flash-kernel.git/commit/?id=6dd3f0e7e5a3462999944e4b60720f418579a615|upstream work]]</nowiki> to add boot argument management, which I'd like to steward into Ubuntu.
* For debian installer, I contributed the initial arm64 support (<nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/debian-installer/ubuntu/revision/1921?start_revid=1998|1]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/trusty/base-installer/arm64/+merge/199972|2]]</nowiki>).
* Lots of minor arm64 port fixes (<nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/trusty/partclone/arm64-ftbfs|partclone]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/saucy/udisks/lp1235051/+merge/189203|udisks]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/trusty/nis/lp1280666|nis]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/trusty/cpu-checker/arm64/+merge/207331|cpu-checker]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/trusty/numactl/arm64/+merge/207751|numactl]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltrace/0.7.3-4ubuntu4|ltrace]]</nowiki>)
* Fixed a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/screen/+bug/1213278|build failure in screen]]</nowiki>
* Found a build failure in procps due to broken functionality in pwdx; identified fixes from upstream and prepared <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~dannf/ubuntu/saucy/procps/pwdx-fixes|a fix for Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.
* Found a couple of lshw issues using Ubuntu (discovered while hacking on MAAS on ARM). Triaged and discovered that one was a years-old bug reported in both <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lshw/+bug/653082|Ubuntu]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=525217|Debian]]</nowiki>. The other had not yet been reported. I reported and fixed both of these issues upstream (http://ezix.org/project/ticket/626, http://ezix.org/project/ticket/628), worked with the Debian maintainer to get these fixes uploaded to sid, and finally resolved the bugs in Ubuntu when the package was sync'd.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/open-iscsi/+bug/1053306|LP: #1053306]]</nowiki>: User had an intermittent - but severe - issue with open-iscsi hanging. Root caused, created a simple reproducer, found a fix upstream, backported & got it SRU'd.
* <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1035110|LP: #1035110]]</nowiki> - root caused a MAAS issue with highbank platforms due to a missing driver, identified a fix & got it SRU'd
* Got a couple of my patches SRU'd so that users could use LTS qemu to emulate highbank (<nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu-linaro/+bug/1030594|LP: #1030594]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qemu-linaro/+bug/1030588|LP: 1030588]]</nowiki>)
* Contributed a <nowiki>[[http://jujucharms.com/charms/precise/qemu-cloud|charm]]</nowiki> that lets you deploy a qemu instance running Ubuntu/armhf onto a public cloud w/ transparent network connectivity.

You can also view a list of packages to which I've contributed here: https://launchpad.net/~dannf/+uploaded-packages.

I try to take an Upstream-first approach though, so a lot of the things I've worked on have come in indirectly e.g. via debian, or kernel.org.

=== Areas of work ===
''These days I mostly work with the Ubuntu ARM and MAAS teams to add and maintain support for ARM SoCs. I often find myself needing to fix bugs in core packages - often just backporting changes from upstream - and it'd probably be more efficient to do so w/o seeking a sponsor. I also contribute to charms on occasion.''

=== Things I could do better ===
''Keep up with more mailing lists. I suck at following high-traffic lists.''

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
''Continue what I'm doing today (see Areas of work), and work on issues regarding the arm64 port.''

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
''Unnecessary divergences from upstream. I hope to maintain rigor about pushing things back upstream.''
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Serge Hallyn ===

Dann has been a great help behind the scenes with software like multipath-tools and qemu-kvm.

See for instance bug https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/488285 for which he unfortunately frequently gets no credit in the changelog. I wholeheartedly endorse Dann for coredev based on my previous packaging work with him.

=== Steve Langasek ===
I have known Dann for over a decade.  During that time, as a Debian developer, ia64 porter, and member of the Debian security and kernel teams, he has more than adequately demonstrated mastery of Debian packaging.  As a member of the Canonical hyperscale team for the past while, he has also had more than enough opportunity to interact with the Ubuntu community and familiarize himself with Ubuntu-specific policies and practices.  Without hesitation, I recommend him to the DMB as a candidate for coredev status.

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
