{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

I'm not currently using this page for anything except very rough notes. For more about me, check:

* https://launchpad.net/~daniel-ohuiginn/
* http://www.ohuiginn.net

Below this point is rough braindump stuff, unlikely to interest anyone except me
----

'''Menu Policy'''

Ubuntu could do with a more consistent approach to gnome/kde menus, especially for  packages in main. For now, just collecting links to resources elsewhere; at a later point, I might try to turn it into a blueprint

Relevant links:

* http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications_2fdesktop_2dentry_2dspec?action=show&redirect=Standards%2Fdesktop-entry-spec[http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gup/hig/ GNOME human interface guidelines], particularly the <nowiki>[[http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gup/hig/2.0/desktop-integration.html#desktop-application-menu|section on desktop menus]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/menu-policy/|Debian menu policy]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications_2fdesktop_2dentry_2dspec?action=show&redirect=Standards%2Fdesktop-entry-spec|Desktop Entry standard]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[http://freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications_2fmenu_2dspec?action=show&redirect=Standards%2Fmenu-spec|menu spec]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DCT/DesktopFiles?highlight=%28desktop%29|Debian Collaboration Team on desktop files]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MOTU/Packages/NoDesktopFile?highlight=%28desktop%29|MOTU project]]</nowiki> to add Desktop files to packages
* <nowiki>[[http://www.openusability.org/|Open Usability]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-women.org/HCI|HCI page from Ubuntu Women]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[Human_Computer_Interaction]]</nowiki> page and <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/hci|Launchpad project]]</nowiki>

Possibly relevant packages: alacarte, python-gmenu, menu, menu-xdg, gnome-menus, gnome-main-menu, edubuntu-menus, kicker, libgnome-menu2

Concerns/Questions/Points:
* writing .desktop files is a perfect bitesize task for new contributers; how to maintain/improve that?
* Should we 
* what about icons?
* How to let derivative distributions adapt their menus?
* Checklist for what Desktop files should have? Identify the ones that don't meet them
* Helping KDE get rid of old applnk files
* Which packages should have menu entries, and where?
* How to prioritize default apps over alternatives? Make it clear which to use if two are available?
* Being sure to contribute patches back upstream
* What about the less-used desktop environments? (e.g. enlightenment)
