{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== To: ===
The Ubuntu Community Council

=== From: ===
Dan Shufelt, Paul Bartell, HassanElJacifi, MyriamSchweingruber and Corey Cohen

=== Regarding: ===
The Community Council Meeting on Tuesday, June 26th, 2007

=== Message: ===
Dear Community Council,

We would like to take a moment of your time to express a few concerns that we have regarding the meeting that was held on Tuesday, June 26th, 2007.  In short, attending a 2 hour Council Meeting is no easy task.  For many of us it often involves juggling work, school and/or family  schedules.  This is not to say that being an active participant in the Ubuntu Community isn't important to us.  However the lack of preparation for this meeting was at the expense of everyone who attended's time.

Implementing a few common practices may help the council not only get through the meeting agenda a bit quicker but may also aid in being able to better address some issues.

Here are a few ideas for your consideration:

1) Try to move time consuming items that may require additional research or items that do not involve all the participants to later in the meeting.

2) Give agenda items a time limit.  If the topic need further discussion then another meeting specific to the topic can easily be scheduled or discussion could continue after other agenda items have been covered.

3) Process agenda items on a first come first serve basis.  If you call someones name and they aren't present then they can be added to the next meeting agenda or wait until after the other topics have been addressed.

4) Encourage council members look at Approval applications / wiki's and launchpad pages and provide feedback before the council meeting.  This would be a great supplement to the already great documentation that is available ( https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NewMemberHowto
and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LoCoGettingApproved come are great examples).

Thank you for taking the time to consider these suggestions.

=== Sent ===
Thursday, July 12th To community-council@lists.ubuntu.com for review.

=== CC Reply Received ===
Friday, July 13, 2007 12:05 AM.  A new process is being created: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StreamlineMembershipApproval

=== CC Response Forwarded ===
Wednesday, July 18th, 2007 11:25 AM to Paul Bartell, HassanElJacifi, MyriamSchweingruber and Corey Cohen
