{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



Below is a list of active and completed team projects.  Feel free to contact the individuals involved for specific details.  If you would like to request assistance or make a suggestion for a team project please email us: ubuntu-us-fl@lists.ubuntu.com.

=== Getting Started ===

New projects ideas should be initiated during team meetings.  Meetings are typically held the 1st and 3rd Tuesday of every month.  Feel free to add your idea(s) to the <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Meeting|meeting agenda]]</nowiki> items, then be prepared to discuss them during the meeting.  Once a project is started, it is the team contact's responsibility to make sure that an announcement is made to the following communication vectors:

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FloridaTeam/Projects|Projects/Events Page]]</nowiki> - Create a project page with details linked from this page.

 {*} <nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-us-fl|Mailing List]]</nowiki> - Post with details and links

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=225|Forums]]</nowiki> - Post with details and links

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-fl.org/|Website]]</nowiki> - Will be added based on info from the mailing list post (above)

 {*} <nowiki>[[http://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=av5048qnq6u9pp6kbehb5kgvq0%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York|Calendar]]</nowiki> - Will be added based on info from the mailing list post (above)

 {*} IRC Channel (#ubuntu-us-fl) topic - /msg itnet7, dantalizing, pak33m

=== Active Projects ===

* <nowiki>[[DFD09|Document Freedom Day 2009 ]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>
   '''Current Status:''' xxxxx

* <nowiki>[[JauntyReleaseParties|Jaunty Release Parties]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>
   '''Current Status:''' xxxx

* <nowiki>[[FloridaLinuxShow-2009O|Florida Linux Show 2009 Orlando]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>
   '''Current Status:''' xxxxx

* <nowiki>[[WebSite|Ubuntu-Florida Website]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:reya276]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>
   '''Current Status:''' == Completed Projects ==
* <nowiki>[[FloridaLinuxShow-2009J|Florida Linux Show 2009 Jacksonville]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[MiamiBugJam-200902|Miami Bug Jam & F2F]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://bugclub.org/|Brevard Users Group Intrepid Linux Installfest]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[IntrepidReleaseParty|Intrepid Release Party]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.softwarefreedomday.org/teams/northamerica/FL|Software Freedom Day FL 2007]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[http://www.barcamporlando.org|Barcamp Orlando April 2008 F2F]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-HardyReleaseParty| Hardy Release Party]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[pak33m]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[FloridaLinuxShow|Florida Linux Show 2008]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[GutsyReleaseParty|Gutsy Release Party]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[FloridaTeam-Projects-UbuntuLive| UbuntuLive2008 F2F]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pak33m]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[Folding|Folding@Home]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>

=== Proposed Projects ===
* Linux-Only Lan Parties
   Pretty self explanatory, ElementC and Catsceo have been experimenting with this, and could eventually become a major draw.  Outreach to local teens.

* <nowiki>[[TriLoCo|Tri-LoCo Meetup-UbuCon Florida]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:dantrevino]]</nowiki>
   Foster communication and cooperation with our neighboring groups
 
* <nowiki>[[ETWQ_FLOCO|ETQW (Enemy Territory Quake Wars]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:itnet7]]</nowiki>
   Host a "RANKED" ETQW Server that will help recruit for FLOCO and establish an even stronger presence for Linux Gamers

=== Inactive Projects ===

* <nowiki>[[CssDesign|Tutorials-CSS]]</nowiki> - Contact: <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:reya276]]</nowiki>
   Learn the basic concepts of CSS syntax and design so that team members can create online marketing materials for the Ubuntu Florida Community or the Ubuntu Community as a whole.
