{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes which packages and configuration files need to be installed on Ubuntu for Korean to be supported.

For other languages, see DapperL10nSprint.

=== Requested for l10n sprint ===

1. Korean Keyboard problem (http://launchpad.net/bugs/30848) 
** As of 2006-03-19, xkeyboard-config_0.8-1 has ko symbols file in /etc/X11/xkb/symbols. The xkb file was tested with ps/2 type 104 key based Hangul/Hanja keyboard.
** Need test results with usb type 104 key based Hangul/Hanja keyboard. We, ubuntu-ko and sprint team, strongly believe the ko symbols file will be fine with usb type keyboards if kernel passes keycodes correctly. If not, need to review the kernel patches ubuntu-ko provide.
** Relating to Hangul/Hanja keys with Input Method, ubuntu-ko will check users' requests and add the two keys for scim-hangul as activation key if necessary.
1. Enable skim module with scim-hangul 0.2.2 (http://launchpad.net/bugs/34472)
** This is in to-do list of scim maintainer.
1. Make ttf-unfonts as default font for Korean : as described in  <nowiki>[[BetterCJKSupportSpecification-FontConfig]]</nowiki>
** As of 2006-03-19, language-selector_0.1.11 provides a improved fontconfig for Korean as current ko_KR written in [DapperL10nSprint/FontConfigPreferencesKorean]. More tests by users in progress.  
1. Set DHCP with mac address (http://launchpad.net/bugs/26949)
** A script to set mac address for network interface had been attached to the bug. Asked sprint team to review possiblity of packaging on 2006-03-20.
1. (Fixed) language-support-ko failed to install with flight5 (https://launchpad.net/bugs/34784)

=== Fontconfig Configuration ===

DapperL10nSprint/FontConfigPreferencesKorean contains an optimal fonts.conf for Korean use, as tested by the Ubuntu Korean community.

=== Fonts used ===

* ttf-unfonts
* ttf-alee

=== Dictionaries ===
* For en/ko dictionary, <nowiki>[[http://stardict.sourceforge.net/|stardict]]</nowiki> can be used. - stardict        2.4.5-1.1 in universe. Looking for en/ko dictionary data file under opensource license as well as other dictionaries for Korean.
* Looking for a spell-checker for Korean under opensource license. (None in Ubuntu dapper)

=== SCIM input method ===

* scim-hangul

=== Test Results after Requests ===
* 2006-3-16
** With kubuntu flight5, scim-gtk2-immodule not installed for scim-hangul as out of the box. : This is due to  kubuntu-desktop currently depending on scim-qtimm only in terms of im module. For that scim-hangul works out of the box regardless of Ubuntu or Kubuntu, scim-gtk2-immodule and scim-qtimm need to be depended by language-support-ko instead of ubuntu-desktop or kubuntu-desktop.  But, not sure whether this idea is good or not as concerns chain of dependencies for scim-gtk2-immodule under kubuntu.
** To fix this issue, first I need a table to see dependencies related to scim (As of 2006-3-24).
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Depends
| Recommends
|-
| ubuntu-desktop
| scim, scim-gtk2-immodule
| 
|-
| kubuntu-desktop
| skim, scim-qtimm
| 
|-
| language-support-ko
| scim-hangul, im-switch
| 
|-
| scim-hangul
| libscim8c2a
| im-switch
|}
** Please keep in mind that scim-hangul with GTK2 and QT IM MODULE (=scim) is preferred to XIM. Users install nabi if they want to use XIM.
** Checked dependencies of scim-gtk2-immodule, I think installing scim-gtk2-immodule will be OK as long as users tend to install firefox under Kubuntu. And, language-support-ko depends on mozilla-firefox-locale-ko too.
** If scim-hangul_0.2.2 will be approved and updated, there will be skim-scim-hangul package.
   (Then I'd like to suggest the below dependencies, but will check users' opinions.)
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Depends
| Recommends
| Suggests
|-
| ubuntu-desktop
| scim, scim-gtk2-immodule
| 
| 
|-
| kubuntu-desktop
| skim, scim-qtimm
| 
| 
|-
| language-support-ko
| scim-hangul, im-switch, scim-gtk2-immodule, scim-qtimm, skim-scim-hangul
| 
| 
|-
| scim-hangul
| libscim8c2a
| im-switch
| skim-scim-hangul
|}
** For the item 1 requested, the culprit of "keycodes 209 and 210 not passed" was fixed by xserver-xorg-input-keyboard_1.0.1.3-0ubuntu3 (<nowiki>[[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/dapper-changes/2006-March/007829.html|changelog]]</nowiki>) and successfully tested by the bug reporter.

* 2006-3-27
** With Kubuntu Daily 20060327 CD, scim-gtk2-immodule, ttf-unfonts, ttf-alee and language-selector-qt not installed out of the box. But I just needed to run language-selector-qt's GUI and skim configuration to tick off "skim autostart" after installing them manually - then looking of fonts and inputing Hangul are all fine as expected.
** Need to find out which package(s) will depend on ttf-unfonts, ttf-alee and language-selector-qt.
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Package
| Depends
| Recommends
| Suggests
|-
| language-support-ko
| ttf-unfonts, ttf-alee
| 
| 
|-
| ?
| language-selector-qt
| 
| 
|-
| ?
| language-selector
| 
| 
|}

* 2006-3-30
** Tested with Ubuntu/Kubuntu Daily 20060328 CD, usb keyboard showed switched keycodes - 209 for Hangul key and 210 for Hanja key. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/30848|30848]]</nowiki> Please check <nowiki>[[handrake]]</nowiki>'s patch for ps/2 and usb keyboard drivers.

* 2006-4-2
** Requested to add Hangul key as Trigger key for both scim and skim. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/37687|37687]]</nowiki>
** Requested to add scim-gtk2-immodule, scim-qtimm, ttf-unfonts, ttf-alee as "Depends" of language-support-ko. <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/malone/bugs/37702|37702]]</nowiki>
