{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{{{
Subject: Announcing the Release Candidates for Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu 6.06 LTS

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the Releases Candidate of 
Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu 6.06 LTS - codenamed "Dapper Drake". 
The Release Candidated includes installable live Desktop CDs, server 
images, alternate text-mode installation CDs and an upgrade wizard for users 
of the current stable release.

We consider this release candidate complete, stable and suitable for
testing by any user. We would especially recommend that current
Ubuntu 5.10 ("Breezy Badger") users and developers use the upgrade
procedure described below.

Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu 6.06 LTS will be the first Ubuntu releases 
with long-term support: three years on the desktop, and five years on the server.

Upgrade information for Ubuntu and Edubuntu 5.10 ("Breezy Badger") users
------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Make sure you have good bandwidth since the upgrade requires 
   that you download several hundred megabytes of new packages!

* Because this is the Release Candidate, you need to invoke the
   update manager explicitly.  To do this, press Alt-F2 (or open 
   a Terminal using Applications -> Accessories ->Terminal)

      gksudo "update-manager -d"

   This step will not be necessary on the final release.

* Make sure you are up to date - click the "Check" button. If you 
   are connected to the network the update manager should now tell 
   you about the 6.06 LTS ("Dapper Drake") release

* Further information about this upgrade procedure is given at
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperUpgrades

Upgrade information for Kubuntu 5.10 ("Breezy Badger") users
------------------------------------------------------------

* In Adept go to Manage Repositories and change "breezy" to "dapper"

* Click "Fetch Updates"

* Click "Full Upgrade"

* Click "Commit"

Upgrade information for Edubuntu 5.10 ("Breezy Badger") Classroom Server users
-------------------------------------------------------------

* To upgrade your Thin Client Installation see 
   https://wiki.ubuntu.com/EdubuntuLTSPUpgradeNotes

To Get the Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Release Candidate CD
------------------------------------------------

Download the Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Release Candidate here (choose the 
mirror closest to you):

  United States:
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/6.06  (Ubuntu)
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/kubuntu/6.06  (Kubuntu)
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/edubuntu/6.06  (Edubuntu)

  Europe:
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/6.06/  (Ubuntu)
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.06/  (Kubuntu)
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.06/  (Edubuntu)

  United Kingdom and Rest of World:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.06/  (Ubuntu)
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.06/  (Kubuntu)
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.06/  (Edubuntu)

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

The final version of Ubuntu 6.06 LTS is expected to be released in early
June. At that time, we will mail pressed CDs free of charge to people
who have made a request to one of the Shipit services.  This is the first 
release with Shipit CDs available for Kubuntu and Edubuntu.

** https://shipit.ubuntu.com/  (Ubuntu)
** https://shipit.kubuntu.com/  (Kubuntu)
** https://shipit.edubuntu.com/  (Edubuntu)

About The Release Candidate
---------------------------------------

The purpose of the Release Candidate is to solicit one last round of 
testing before the final release.  Here are ways that you can help:

* Upgrade from Ubuntu, Kubuntu or Edubuntu 5.10 to the Release Candidate 
    by following the instructions given above.

* Participate in installation testing using the Release Candidate CD
   images, by following the testing and reporting instructions at 
   http://wiki.ubuntu.com/Testing/Current

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu to better meet your future needs,
take a look at the list of ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn 
this release into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report 
bugs through the Launchpad Malone bug tracker:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a 
reputation for making things "Just Work" out of the box, a fast
and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of excellent 
packages installed by default, every other package you can imagine 
available from the network, and professional technical support from 
Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies around the world.

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on 
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

Kubuntu is a user friendly operating system based on KDE, the 
K Desktop Environment. With a predictable 6 month release cycle 
and part of the Ubuntu project, Kubuntu is the GNU/Linux distribution 
for everyone.

  http://www.kubuntu.org/

The Edubuntu Linux distribution brings the spirit of Ubuntu to schools, 
through its customised school environment.

  http://www.edubuntu.org/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to 
Ubuntu's very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
