{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''This HowTo describes how to install and configure the Neostrada internet connection on Dapper. It has been tested on Sagem F@st 800 USB modem and Ubuntu 6.06 Dapper Drake.'''

(This HowTo is available in Polish language at: <nowiki>[[DapperNeostradaSetupPL]]</nowiki>

the original, keNzi's version is accessible at: http://kenzi.jogger.pl/2006/07/17/howto-uruchamiamy-neostrade/)

=== Preparing the system ===
First, we need a few packages that will allow us to compile the kernel module. As we do not have an internet connection available, we need to use the Dapper CD, which we add to Apt's sources:
<pre>
sudo apt-cdrom add
</pre>
We should be asked to insert the Dapper Drake CD into the drive. After we do this and the command finishes, we have to update Apt's database:
<pre>
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

Now we're set to install the needed packages:
<pre>
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
</pre>
...and we're ready to continue with kernel module compilation.

=== Obtaining and compiling the kernel module ===
A correct kernel module is needed to get our modem to work - its sources are available on the internet at http://download.gna.org/eagleusb/eagle-usb-2.3.0/eagle-usb-2.3.3.tar.bz2. As we do not have the internet connection configured yet, we need to download them from another machine (or another system), put that file on our system, cd to the directory we put it in and unpack it:
<pre>
tar -xjf eagle-usb-2.3.3.tar.bz2
</pre>
Now we're all set to compile the kernel module:
<pre>
cd eagle-usb-2.3.3
./configure
make
sudo make install
</pre>

Afterwards we can remove the directory with the sources:
<pre>
cd ../
sudo rm -rf eagle-usb-2.3.3
</pre>

Now, let's configure and bring up the connection, shall we?

=== Configuration and going online ===
We're just a small step away from getting our internet connection up-and-running.

The configuration:
<pre>
sudo eagleconfig
</pre>

Bringing the connection up:
<pre>
sudo startadsl
</pre>

Woot! That's it! Your internet connection via Neostrada TP should be up-and-running.

=== Credits ===

* All the credits as the original author go to keNzi from #ubuntu-pl on irc.freenode.net, the original version is available on his jogger at: http://kenzi.jogger.pl/2006/07/17/howto-uruchamiamy-neostrade/
* Translation, little retouch and inclusion into the wiki made by rysiek aka MichałWoźniak
