{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Status ==

* Created: by AnthonyMercatante, LukaRenko
* Priority: LowPriority
* Maintainers: AnthonyMercatante, LukaRenko
* Contributors: AdamConrad, MarioDanic
* Interested: AchimBohnet
* Status: Accepted into Universe, DapperGoal
* Branch:
* Malone Bug:
* Packages:
* Depends:
* UduSessions:
* Current needs: As many testers as possible

== Dapper KNetworkManager ==

KNetworkManager is a KDE frontend to Network Manager developed by Novell for the OpenSuse distribution. It is nicely integrated into KDE desktop as it runs in sys tray and stores your WEP/WPA passwords into KDE Wallet.

It requires 0.6 version of Network Manager.

Network Manager aims for Network Connectivity which "Just Works". The computer should use the wired network connection when its plugged in, but automatically switch to a wireless connection when the user unplugs it and walks away from the desk. Likewise, when the user plugs the computer back in, the computer should switch back to the wired connection. The user should, most times, not even notice that their connection has has been managed for them; they should simply see uninterrupted network connectivity.

Network manager 0.6 was integrated into Dapper and will feature support for WPA and 802.1x as well. 

More information about Network Manager is available <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome.org/projects/NetworkManager/|here]]</nowiki> .

== Installation ==
* Run <code>sudo apt-get update</code>
* Run <code>sudo apt-get install network-manager-kde</code>

== About Development ==

* knetworkmanager sources: http://ftp.opensuse.org/pub/opensuse/distribution/SL-OSS-factory/inst-source/suse/src/ search for ''networkmanager-kde*.src.rpm''
* debian packaging: http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/pkg-utopia/packages/experimental/knetworkmanager/?rev=0&sc=0
* kubuntu packaging: 
** ''apt-get source network-manager-kde''
* network-manager discussion: http://mail.gnome.org/archives/networkmanager-list/

=== TODO list ===
Work on package:
* Get rid of Dial Up networking - DONE 
*** to complicated to replace yast2 with kppp and similar (will discuss with upstream for future)
* r5909 crash on first connect to WPA2-PSK - DONE
*** reported to author and resolved with version r5961
* Help -> Report Bug should probably be removed or replaced with something (it reports to novell.com)

Work on inclusion of the package:
* Get package REVUed  - in progress: http://revu.tauware.de/details.py?upid=2220 - DONE
* Get package in universe (past feature freeze) - DONE
* Write MainInclusionReport - DONE
* Wait for core team to pick it up for main

== Notes ==
See notes at the DapperNetworkManager page.

== Issues ==
Before reporting issue, please try to follow tips in this <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=156319|thread]]</nowiki> (thanks to NeoChaosX).

* knetworkmanager does not show up if Xgl is used - see <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=842732&postcount=19|forum post]]</nowiki>

== Comments ==
I can't seem to find network-manager-kde anywhere in the ubuntu package trees, I'm running network-manager 6.1 in dapper right now, if the kde applet is not yet in the main tree, can someone post a temporary link directly to the deb package?  Thanks.
* package is now available from Dapper universe repository

KNetworkmanager (0.1 prelease) does show in the systray under Xgl/compiz (using Quinn's .deb repository). Using Dapper with KDE 3.5.2

If you wish to use a VPN with KNetworkManager you should also install the gnome-network-manager frontend.  This is because the configuration dialogue for VPN connections is delegated to the gnome version ( guess there isn't a KDE version written yet).  If you don't have this installed you will simply get no response from knetworkmanager when you click on the "Configure VPN..." item.

Please do not edit this page directly, place your comments here. Thanks.
