{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''AWOOGA! AWOOGA! THIS IS A DRAFT! THIS IS A DRAFT!'''

<pre>
Subject: Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS released

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the release of Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS,
the first maintenance release of "Dapper Drake". This release includes
both installable Desktop CDs and alternate text-mode installation CDs for
several architectures, for Ubuntu, Kubuntu and Edubuntu. Xubuntu is
also included, although commercial support for it is not available
from Canonical Ltd.

About Ubuntu
------------

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a 
fast and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of 
excellent packages installed by default, every other package you can
imagine available with a few clicks from a global network of mirrors,
and professional commercial technical support from Canonical Ltd and
hundreds of other companies around the world.

To Get Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS
------------------------

Download Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Edubuntu/Xubuntu 6.06.1 LTS here:

  Ubuntu:

    Europe:
      http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/6.06.1/   (France)
      http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.06.1/      (All)

    Rest of the World:
      http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.06.1/

  Kubuntu:

    Europe:
      http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.06.1/   (France)
      http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.06.1/      (All)

    Rest of the World:
      http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/6.06.1/

  Edubuntu:

    Europe:
      http://fr.releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.06.1/   (France)
      http://releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.06.1/      (All)

    Rest of the World:
      http://releases.ubuntu.com/edubuntu/6.06.1/

  Xubuntu:

    http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/6.06.1/release.1/

To burn these CD images, you will need 700MB media.

Shipit will be updated within approximately the next month with
Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS. To receive a complimentary copy of the Official
Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS CD -- or a handful of them to give to your
friends, your school or LUG -- place your request at the relevant
URL below.

   http://shipit.ubuntu.com/
   http://shipit.kubuntu.org/
   http://shipit.edubuntu.org/

About Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS
-----------------------

This is the first maintenance release of Ubuntu 6.06 LTS, which
continues to be supported with maintenance updates and security
fixes until June 2009 (on desktops) and June 2011 (on servers).

Over 300 post-release updates have been pre-applied, so that fewer
updates will need to be downloaded after installation, and a number
of bugs in the installation system have been corrected.  These
include security updates and corrections for other high-impact bugs,
with a focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with
Ubuntu 6.06 LTS. We do not expect that certifications against 
Ubuntu 6.06 LTS will need to be updated for this maintenance
release.

See http://www.ubuntu.com/usn for a list of Ubuntu security updates.
All updates to date affecting packages on the CD have been applied.

Some other particularly notable updates, with bug references where
available (see http://bugs.ubuntu.com/) are as follows:

Installer:

* Many fixes to the desktop CD installer, including a crash when
   installing in Chinese but with a non-Chinese-speaking country
   (#47687), issuing a warning in the partitioner if /boot is on XFS
   (#47848) or system partitions are not reformatted (#47046), a
   crash if packages on the running live session are unconfigured
   (#47859), a crash with certain kinds of disk attached (#48732),
   more defence against gparted/qtparted crashing (#47194, #48856),
   improved handling of going back and forward in the advanced
   partitioner, and many more, along with translation updates.

* Fix Kickstart support to handle disabling the root password correctly
   (#48038).

* Fix line continuation handling in installer preseed files (#47767).

* Translations of "Install in text mode" on the CD boot loader now
   appear (#47615).

* Fix handling of /isolinux/lang file, used to customise the CD boot
   loader, for Chinese and Portuguese.

* Fix gparted crash if xfs_db fails (#50909).

* Fix CD-ROM booting on sparc64 (#40119).

* Add support for automatic discovery of SBus devices when installing
   on SPARC.

GNOME Desktop:

* Most of GNOME 2.14.3 has been incorporated, including a fix for
   evince's failure to open PDF files on FTP servers (#47201),
   improved eog print output (#3673), fixed double fade in
   gnome-screensaver (#35051), making sure screensavers don't run
   while on battery (#39908), corrected OpenOffice.org file
   associations (#49417), a fix for a serious memory leak in
   gnome-cups-icon (#45406), stopping the icon selection dialog from
   closing while entering a path (#45819), a fix for a large memory
   leak in pango affecting dia (#52274), more stable track switching
   in rhythmbox (#49714), and many other conservative bug fixes.

* Correct handling of keys for signed archives in gnome-app-install.

KDE Desktop:

* Fix 32-bit compatibility Qt libraries on amd64 systems.

* Fix crash in kde-guidance if a user has no real name set (#47317).

* Fix kopete hang that could cause the Kubuntu desktop to hang when
   right-clicking on desktop icons (#43065).

* Fix detection of KDE in the language selector.

* Upgrade kopete's ICQ protocol version (part of
   http://bugs.kde.org/130630, #54757).

Xfce Desktop:

* Fix mixer icon.

* Fix menu editor crash leaving an empty menu (#47776).

Server:

* redhat-cluster-suite no longer starts/restarts the daemon on install
   or update, which caused the suite to fail to install (#47645).

* Fix infinite loop in nbd-server child processes that filled up syslog
   (http://bugs.debian.org/350357).

* Fix disappearance of IMAP subfolders in dovecot on systems upgraded
   from Ubuntu 5.10 (#51038).

Documentation:

* Updated translations of Ubuntu documentation.

* Improved language of Kubuntu release notes (#48525).

Other:

* Translations of many packages have been updated, thanks to the
   Rosetta translation system (https://launchpad.net/rosetta).

* pcmcia-cs avoids a hang on upgrades from Ubuntu 5.10 on certain
   machines.

* TeX hyphenation repaired (#36145).

* Improve wpa_supplicant's integration with our networking stack.

* Improve pbuilder's dependencies (#40613).

* acpi-support no longer unloads the nsc-ircc IrDA driver on suspend.

* Fix unusable button 2 for users of the EmulateWheelTimeout option in
   xorg.conf on Thinkpads with 3-button trackpoints (#38272).

* Additions to the dapper-commercial channel in Add/Remove Applications
   (RealPlayer, desktop-multiplier, Opera).

* Updated cupsys to upstream bugfix release 1.2.2, fixing many bugs
   (including #42513, #42802, #44931, #47387, #48116, #51432, and part
   of #42802).

* Fix pmount crash in certain locales, including Estonian (#49655).

* xdmx-tools is no longer an empty package.

Helping Shape Ubuntu
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of 
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, try asking on the #ubuntu channel on IRC.FreeNode.net, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu on our websites:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/
  http://www.kubuntu.org/
  http://www.edubuntu.org/
  http://www.xubuntu.org/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce

</pre>
