{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

With Dapper in deep freeze the feature set is pretty much fixed at this point. However, there is still room for some additional components if the work is largely contributed by non-core developers. This is the list of things that would be fantastic to get into Dapper but which the core team is not able to commit to given existing targets. If you are able to help with one of these, your contribution will stand a very good chance of becoming part of the Dapper release and making a big difference for many end users.

=== WPA ===

 Many company networks use WPA, and the current generation of system utilities does not make it easy for a desktop user to connect to them graphically. There are command line tools that are in "universe" that make this possible, but no GUI integration with the Gnome network manager.

 Those who would like to work on this, please:

** setup a wiki page at DapperNetworkWPA
** make sure you bring together all the different groups working towards this goal
** publish test packages of work towards the goal of good support for WPA in Dapper
** contact Keybuk on IRC on freenode who will review packages you create
** when you are ready, call for wide testing of your package on ubuntu-devel

 We will arrange for up to three reviews, then it will be deemed unsuitable, so its better to get it in good shape before putting it forward for review. If you have packaging questions those should be dealt with on #ubuntu-devel.

=== Network Manager ===

 Network manager is a lovely piece of software from Red Hat, which we would like to have included in Dapper, but the builds at decision time were not of suitable robustness. There is a new upstream release and additional work in CVS. We would like folks to join upstream and help Red Hat polish that work, and at the same time help us test packages that try to make NM a candidate for Dapper. It is unlikely that NM will meet Dapper QA guidelines, but we could at least get a pretty-good package into the release and easily installable for users for whom it works. That would also solve the WPA issue, I believe.

 Folks interested in Network manager:

** setup a wiki page at DapperNetworkManager (if there is not already a page for this)
** contact Keybuk on IRC on freenode
** make sure you bring together all the different groups working towards this goal
** help test packages, and others testing packages, on as wide variety of hardware as possible

=== X fallbacks ===

 Our new installer depends on bring X up in a sane best-we-can-do fashion, every time. We need to make sure that we fall back to sensible and reliable display drivers and modes if our autoconfiguration fails. This will mean people have the best possible chance of installing Dapper cleanly with the new installer, and with disks they receive from Shipit.

 Folks interested in helping with this please:

** contact Infinity on IRC on freenode
** try to find cases where the current X setup code is failing (for example bug #22985)
