{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page is a summary of the two meetings on March 14 about delaying the release of the next Ubuntu version, codenamed "Dapper Drake". The decision about whether this delay wil happen will not be taken during this meeting. This summary should not be considered official communication and just serves as a summary of the discussions - for the convenience of people who could not attend the meetings.

Any questions about this summary should be directed to its author, DennisKaarsemaker.

''Full log of meeting 1: http://ubuntu-nl.org/~dennis/dapper-meeting-1.log''<<BR>>
''Full log of meeting 2: http://ubuntu-nl.org/~dennis/dapper-meeting-2.log'' 

'''More time to include this-and-that feature I want!'''
 No. The delay is for polishing and bugfixing. Several new features have been suggested but they will NOT be taken into account. Exceptions are l10n work (eg scim) and other parts of Dapper goals.
'''The 6 weeks delay are good for the integration of IndLinux and Ubuntu'''
 +1 on IndLinux but new freeze dates will have to be respected
'''The use of terminology for sources/channels/repositories is confusing'''
 There is still time to fix this, freezes should be respected as much as possible.
'''Can't certification be done post-release?'''
 Certifications can be done post-release but Dapper will need to be certifiable. Which in the case of, e.g. lsb certification and others may require changes kernel and libc. These changes should be made before release.
'''Is only the release date slipping or also other Freeze dates?'''
 The TB will set new deadlines - there will be some room but not much. Especially the l10n work wil need freeze exceptions.
'''Why 6 weeks?'''
 2 weeks is not enough time to fix bugs, polish and get new l10n work in
'''Will there be impact on dapper+1?'''
 There is ''likely'' to be some impact on the next two releases, but this will be decided by the TB later and during the spec-writing. During the second meeting quite a few people favoured against this and proposed to drastically reduce the number of goals for dapper+1. The topic will be revisited during a meeting of the Ubuntu technical board.
'''Dapper needs more l10n work!'''
 There is an l10n sprint currently in London, especially CJK has been given much attention. The 6 weeks extra are needed for this and for translations.
'''Renaming the release'''
 It is important that the release name will follow the year and month tradition, the final name of Dapper Drake will thus be 6.06 or 6-06 (The idea to shift from x.yy to x-yy is  because the decimal interpretation of x.yy is confusing, this is NOT final yet)
'''PR concerns'''
 All official communication about the possible delay wil be treated with extra care and has to be signed off by both the Community Council and the Technical Board. '''This page should not be considered official communication (see above).'''. We have a good reputation on dates - especially in an industry that does not respect them. It's a bad thing that we will negatively impact that reputation but the negative impact of a less-polishes less-well-finished release may be bigger. If we make Dapper rock completely then the damage shouldn't be too much. Especially missing features will be important
* No Ubuntu developers wil work on network manager 0.6.0 but a community contributed package for network manager 0.6.0 with wpa and 802.1x that works good in and integrates well with Ubuntu could be accepted.
* There will be much better l10n support in Dapper
* No more password-disclosing failures 
{{{
11:06 <@sabdfl> ok, so to summarize on the PR position:
11:07 <@sabdfl>  - we should message clearly that we are delaying to meet higher standard of quality, testing, l10n, because people want Dapper to be "exceptional"
11:07 <@sabdfl>  - we should work hard to make sure that Dapper is , in fact, exceptional}}} 
'''Dapper is different - how do we make this clear to our users?'''
 Dapper will be a release with higher quality and longer support. However - every release of Ubuntu is usable, supported and of high quality. We should not discourage those releases and we don't want the name enterprise for the dapper-style releases. Dapper is the culmination of things learned since Warty - it should look different and exciting (it already is quite orange, which helps). It may be a good idea to call it 6-06 LS (for "long support"). something in the version number to distinguish it would help
'''Will there be a dapper-style release every 4 cycles?'''
 We can't commit to dapper+4 being another dapper, because we don't know what upstream kernel, X, gcc, openoffice.org) will be doing in two years. We've based the Dapper long-term decision on the convergence of solid and supportable releases coming out of the open source world
'''Why can't we make 2 releases? One in 6.04 for normal users and an enterprise release later?'''
 Simply because there is no manpower to handle yet another branch. There could be a symbolic  almost-there release april 20 (possibly sooner), accompanied by a wide call for testing.
'''Who will make the final decision about delaying?'''
 The final decision will be made by the Community Council - the Technical Board will break down the extra time on different schedule freezes.
'''Post-release plans''':
 Several people already have post-release plans which are now messed up by the delay. These people can be guaranteed that on or around april 20 there will be a prerelease of Ubuntu which is good enough for actual deployment. During both meetings many people asked for such a release.
'''XFCE needs it / KDE 3.5.2 could be included'''
 Even though these are not the main goals of the postponing it is a welcome side-effet that XFCE can get the polish it needs to maybe end up in main and that KDE 3.5.2 may be included.
 