{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''DRAFT - DO NOT DISTRIBUTE'''

June 1st 2006 is the updated release date for Ubuntu Dapper, Desktop and Server editions, a delay of 6 weeks over the previous release date of April 20.

The Ubuntu Community Council and Technical Board last night discussed feedback on the delay proposal received during two town hall meetings on the #ubuntu-meeting public channel. After conferring with an absent colleague they have now unanimously approved the new release schedule, published here:

  https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperReleaseSchedule

The additional time will be used to:

* devote an additional three weeks of bug-fix-only quality assurance time to the release for the core development team
* integrate the work of the localisation sprint to ensure excellent out-of-the-box support for Asian languages as well as other languages for which we are receiving a stream of community contributions
* devote additional developer time to UI polish that we believe will make Dapper stand out as a high-quality desktop operating system for large-scale deployment
* bring the XFCE desktop environment, which has received substantial community-driven work during this cycle, into the main Ubuntu repository to improve the usefulness of Ubuntu on lightweight desktops
* ensure that Dapper will be LSB certified at the time of release
* provide for wider testing of the new Ubuntu server kernels and server features
* ensure that the new graphical Live CD installer receives very widespread testing

This is not a general relaxation of the freeze process. While there are some new features that are being integrated, the general stabilisation and bug fixing freeze remains in place, with some specific exceptions.

Progress towards the set of goals identified for Dapper has been truly excellent, with almost all feature goals already implemented or available for wide testing 5 weeks ahead of our previous release date. The current status of all 82 new Dapper features (not counting new upstream features in this cycle) is listed here:

  https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/dapper/+specs

The extra time will help ensure that Dapper is a robust and reliable platform for organisations with long-term and large-scale free software deployments. This is the first release of Ubuntu that will be supported for 5 years on the server and 3 years on the desktop, and we believe that this release will help expand the reach of the Ubuntu and Debian communities substantially.

While the release schedule of Dapper+1 is not finalised, the Technical Board feels that it will be best to plan for a short release schedule to return to our regular Gnome + 1 month cycle. This will likely result in Dapper+1 being released in October 2006.

Thank you to all who participated in the discussion or sent in their commentary directly to the Technical Board, Community Council and SABDFL.

Mark
