{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

We're creating a new branch of Clearlooks specifically for Ubuntu.

Widgets we need to implement:
* Checkbuttons      - DONE
* Radiobuttons      - DONE
* Slider buttons    - DONE
* Scrollbar buttons - DONE
* Progressbars      - DONE
* Normal buttons    - DONE

Widgets we need to design:
* Normal buttons (prelight, default) - DONE

Known bugs that need fixing:
* Insensitive checkboxes in selected TreeView rows - CANTFIX (GTK+ bug)
* Menus in OpenOffice.org are broken. - DONE
* All the memory leaks.

Other things we need to do:
* Create a different branch of Clearlooks Ubuntu. Separate from gtk-engines. - DONE
* Rename the branch to UbuntuLooks. - DONE
* Change window titlebar color - DONE
* Checkboxes and Radiobuttons on menus and treeviews. - DONE
* Custom Gtkrc for GDM. - NEED TESTING
* Better color for insensitive toggled buttons. - DONE
* Test if switching between Clearlooks and Ubuntulook works. - DONE

Clearlooks Ubuntu needs to undergo extensive testing:
* Extensive testing of RTL, report everything that breaks. - DONE
* Clipped gradients.
* Check Clearlooks bugzilla for open bugs that may effect Ubuntu. - DONE
* Transparent panels. - DONE

If there's still some time left:
* Create a caching mechanism for checkboxes, sliders.

== Right to Left Languages Support ==

Several things break:
* Spinbuttons - DONE
* ComboBoxes - DONE
* Sliders - DONE
* TreeView Headers - DONE
* And if we really wanna be cool, we should draw the checkbutton mark from right to left too ;)
