{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

In order to ensure that everyone gets to raise issues that are important to them, but we don't have a lot of "me too" action, and everything moves smoothly, here is the process for the town hall meetings on March 14th:

* If you have a comment, please ''/msg Seveas'' at the start of the meeting. He will keep track of those who have asked to speak, and will ask you to give your comments one by one. (Do not expect an acknowledgement of your message - he will read them)
* Read the DapperDelayMeetingSummary and don't repeat comments from the first meeting
* Please pre-type your comments so you can cut and paste them into IRC. Be careful of flooding and getting kicked off. Keep your comments specific and brief.
* If someone before you says what you wanted to say, don't repeat it when it's your turn. Instead just say "he-or-she already said it for me".

When all the comments are done, ''sabdfl'' will ask if there is anyone who ''/msg'd Seveas'' who has NOT yet been called to speak and who has NOT yet had someone else raise their same point.

If at that point there are no new comments, we will begin the discussion.

''Sabdfl'' will summarize the comments that have been put forward, and chair a discussion of each of the major issues that have been raised.

=== Reading material ===
* Marks mail that caused this: http://tinyurl.com/pefoq
* Live log of the chat: http://ubuntu-nl.org/~dennis/meeting.log
* Summary of the first meeting: DapperDelayMeetingSummary
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-nl.org/~dennis/dapper-meeting-1.log|Full log]]</nowiki>
* Summary of the second meeting: DapperDelayMeetingSummary
** <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-nl.org/~dennis/dapper-meeting-2.log|Full log]]</nowiki>
