{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Duplicated Packages in Dapper ==

See ReducingDuplication for background.

=== Detecting and verifying duplicates ===

An example command to get a false-positive heavy but useful never-the-less list of potential duplicates:

<pre>

zgrep "^Package: " dists/dapper/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz | awk '{print $2}' | sed -e "s/c2//" -e "s/c102//" -e "s/[-0-9.]//g" | sort | uniq -d | less

</pre>

To see what other packages are affected by any given package, a useful trick is to pretend to remove it from the archive and make use of melanie's dependency checking, e.g.

<pre>

melanie -n -R dpkg | grep "^\*\*"

</pre>

(The ** prefix is used to denote dependency problems in main)

=== Static linking ===

==== zlib ====

* dpkg (justified)
* aide (justified)
* ia32-libs (warty, hoary)
* amd64-libs (warty, hoary)
* rpm (in lsb-rpm, might be justified)

==== libpcre3 ====

* python2.{1,2,3} (hacked upstream, fixed in 2.4)
* gnumeric (warty, hoary, breezy)
* apache2 (warty)

==== modified copies of xpdf in source ====

* cupsys (warty, hoary)
* tetex-bin (warty, hoary, breezy; dapper uses poppler)

=== Multiple Versions (outstanding) ===

==== imlib* ====

* The only package which {build,}-depends on imlib is kdegraphics, everything else has transitioned to imlib2.  kdegraphics would require porting, however, to get it to use imlib2 (an attempt was made, and failed).

==== libdb* ====

* We will standardize on libdb4.3 (groundwork for this has already been laid in Debian), and attempt to get rid of libdb3 and libdb4.2.

==== libgtk.* ====

* 1.2 still used by xmms, kicker-applets [removed], and evms-gui [ported to GTK 2]

==== libsqlite{0,3} ====

* The world depends on 3, these depend on 0:
** python2.4-sqlite (maybe this can be demoted, since there are other python sqlite bindings in main)
** php5-sqlite (Adam will transition this one)
** qt-x11-free (migrated to sqlite3)

=== Multiple Versions (done) ===

==== libnspr4/libnss3 ====

* These should be built from firefox 1.5 instead of mozilla, so that mozilla can go to universe. [done]

==== mozilla-dev ====

* librsvg2: use firefox-dev [done]
* openoffice.org2: use firefox-dev [done]
* enigmail: needs  package split (e-thunderbird and e-mozilla) [done]

==== libmysql* ====

* libmysqlclient10 [done] is going away completely [done].
* MySql 4.0/libmysqlclient12 and MySQL 4.1/libmysqlclient14 will also go to universe in favour of 5.0 and client15. [done]

==== libdb* ====

* We will standardize on libdb4.3 (groundwork for this has already been laid in Debian), and attempt to get rid of libdb1-compat [done] and libdb4.1 [done].

==== gnutls/gcrypt ====

* gnutls10 should go away [done]
* gnutls11 is currently necessary for openldap, needs an interface rewrite (old openssl compatibility code) [done]
* everything else should eventually use gnutls12 [done]
* gcrypt{!11} should go away [done]

==== Python2.* ====

* Python2.3 is still required for Zope2, which it was decided last night can be demoted to universe.  (this has now been done)
* doko says that the 2.3->2.4 transition in Debian will be happening any day now, along with automation of default python version selection, which will make it so we don't have to touch each package to drop 2.3 support.  If this doesn't materialise by Christmas, we will have to fall back to touching each package by hand and dropping 2.3 support. [done]

==== libmpeg1 ====

* gimp build-depends on it, but doesn't appear to USE it, so test dropping the build-dep [done]

==== gnome1 ====

* glife (Ogra says, "DROP IT, DO IT, POP THE TRUNK") [done]
* gnome-pilot: probably just erroneous build dependencies; seb128 will fix [done]
* unixodbc [done]
* w3m [done]
* python-osd and xosd must be dropped [done]

==== postgresql-7.4 ====

* Obsolete versions and upgrades are now handled entirely by postgresql-common, so this version can be dropped.  pitti just got the okay from mdz to drop the transition packages as well.  [done]

==== libnetpbm9 ====

* Seeded without any main package that rdepends on it. Should just be unseeded. [done]

==== libsnmp4.2 ====

* cyrus21-imapd build-depends on it, Debian uses 5.0 now, so we should just merge [done]

==== libsigc++{1.2,2.0} ====

* aptitude needs to transition to 2.0, it already has in experimental. [done]

==== libreadline{4,5} ====

* We have about ~100 packages in main depending on libreadline4, this may go down significantly after we process all of MOM's pending merges.
* Due to compatible APIs, in 99% of cases, it should be enough to change build-deps and recompile the packages Debian hasn't gotten to yet.
* doko says this is easy, and we can bug him to do it.
* [done, all main packages use 5 now]

==== ucd-snmp ====

* Only cyrus21-imapd depends on it; it should be migrated to net-snmp.
* Debian wants to drop ucd-snmp, too.
* [done]

==== krb4 ====

* krb4 is obsolete, only has one rdepends (cyrus-sasl2), can be easily removed and replaced by the krb5 binding [done]

==== libssl ====

* Rebuild everything against OpenSSL 0.9.8 and drop openssl097 to universe. [done]

==== libgd* ====

* python-gdchart should be transitioned to libgd2; was unseeded for dapper, so that libgd is in universe now

==== libmpeg3 ====

* The only thing using this is directfb, the only thing using that is libggi.
* Nothing is using libggi, it's only pulled in because it's directly seeded and shouldn't be. [done]
* ColinWatson: cdebconf in dapper will want directfb for the prototype graphical installer work. We should decide whether we want this; I think we probably will want it eventually, but if not cdebconf will need to be modified to avoid building cdebconf-gtk-udeb and remove the build-dependency. [demoted; we don't need it for dapper]
