{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


This page contains ideas and files for the sample content files that will be included with Dapper. '''Please make sure that any work you post here is under a sufficiently liberal license to qualify for inclusion on the CD.''' The related spec is at: ExampleContent

== Licensing ==

The following licenses are acceptable for the example content:

* GPL, LGPL, BSD, MIT or similar free software license that we already commonly use for the software in main an universe
* Creative Commons <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/|By Attribution]]</nowiki> or <nowiki>[[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.5/|By Attribution - Share Alike]]</nowiki>.
* Public Domain - though here we need to be careful about checking the sources 

Creative Commons Non-Commercial and No-Derivatives are not acceptable as they place too many restrictions on use. None of the 'sampling' licenses can be used either because they restrict what you can do with derivatives. 

== The collection ==

The current tarball of example content is <nowiki>[[http://people.ubuntu.com/~henrik/examplecontent/dapper/current/ExampleContent.tar.gz|here]]</nowiki>.The collection currently lives in Universe, but will be moved to Main. To install type <code>apt-get install example-content</code> and look in <code>/usr/share/example-content</code>. This <nowiki>[[DapperExampleContent/ReadMe|readme file]]</nowiki> will be included to present it and explain how to use it and bookmark it.

Status indicators: 
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#FFCCCC>None
| no content of this type has been identified
|-
| <#FFEBBB>Preliminary
| Some content has been identified, but it is not considered of high enough quality to become the final version
|-
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
| Content of acceptable quality has been identified and included, though it may still yield to better options
|-
| <#228B22>Final
| The content of this type has been finalised
|}

=== Productivity ===

We will primarily include Open``Document files to be used in Open``Office, but will also include PDFs and MS-Office files to illustrate the compatibility features of OOo. 

 '''Formats:''' odt, ods, odp, odb, odg, pdf, doc, xls, rtf, csv, txt

==== OpenOffice ====

Open``Office files:
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Category
| Item(s)
| Status
|-
| Writer
| Introducing``Ubuntu.odt Maxwell``Equations.odt
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| Calc
| Invoice``Template.ods from <nowiki>[[http://ooextras.sourceforge.net/|OOExtras]]</nowiki>
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| Impress
| Presenting``Ubuntu.odp
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| Draw
| Ubuntu CD cover (for home-printing)
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}

==== Other office files ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Category
| Item(s)
| Status
|-
| TXT
| LICENSE.TXT
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| RTF
| About``Ubuntu``In``Russian.rtf
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| PDF
| Introducing``Ubuntu.pdf Ubuntu_leaflet.pdf
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| MS-Office
| Derivatives.doc
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}

=== Graphics ===

Some images as PNG files plus SVG and Gimp files to show the usefulness of layers.    

* '''Formats:''' svg, xcf, png

==== Gimp files ====
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| davinci-gimp-splash.xcf by Pascal Klein
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}

==== Clipart ====

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}

Clipart from <nowiki>[[http://openclipart.org/|openclipart.org]]</nowiki> in the following categories: Animals, People, Plants and Things

The SVG clipart can be viewed in Nautilus and Firefox and can be edited in Inkscape and imported into several applications like Gimp and Scribus (unfortunately it can not be imported into Open``Office :( )

The clipart from openclipart is public domain, but to exercise good taste we should give proper credit. This can be documented in an attached file once the final set has been selected.

==== Wallpaper ====

12 wallpapers have been collected from art.ubuntu.com. Some image-based wallpapers have been converted from PNG to JPG to reduce the file size (significantly). These wallpapers are either public domain or licensed under the GPL or CC Attribution

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Category
| Item(s)
| Status
|-
| JPG
| <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/16|Flower Closeup by Matyy]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/58|Mall interior by nicholaspaul]]</nowiki>  <<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/edubuntu/10|Bea's World by Beanca Torrefranca]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| PNG
| <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/65|Ubunter 2 by commodore]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/79|Ubuntu Black by endersshadow]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/kubuntu/40|KubuntuModern by author.psi]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| SVG
| <nowiki>[[http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=29740|Simple Human by ngnr]]</nowiki> <<BR>> <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/85|Ubuntu Dapper by Andy]]</nowiki> <<BR>>  <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/3|Swirl SVG by volvoguy]]</nowiki> <<BR>>  <nowiki>[[http://art.ubuntu.com/backgrounds/ubuntu/54|Ubuntu World by tristian]]</nowiki> <<BR>>
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}

General comments: Many of these wallpapers are of high quality. The problem may become to select between them if space becomes a limiting factor. I may request from the artists that some modifications be made WRT the placement of the Ubuntu logo, so as to make its use more uniform.

=== Audio ===

There is a fair amount of freely download-able music on the web but very little under a sufficiently Free license. Most of the Creative Commons content is only available under the non-commercial license or the similarly restrictive sampling licenses. It will not be possible to include any such file unless we can convince artists to re-license a given work under a more permissive license. High quality recordings of speech under a free license should be easier to come by.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://librivox.org/alices-adventures-in-wonderland-by-lewis-carroll|Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll]]</nowiki>
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|-
| <nowiki>[[http://www.remixcommons.org/node/309|Miracle Lemon by Kalimoto]]</nowiki>
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}
 '''Formats:''' Ogg/Vorbis, Speex

Possible sources of suitable Free music: 
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Sound/list
* http://creativecommons.org/audio/
* http://www.archive.org/details/audio
* http://www.vorbis.com/music/ and http://www.vorbis.com/music_links/

=== Video ===
As with music, the problem with video is finding material of high enough quality under a sufficiently free license. The clip needs to be fairly short due to constraints of disk space. 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| Desktop video
| <#CCFFCC>Selected
|}

 '''Format:''' Ogg/Theora

We will probably go with a desktop recording video, see: http://people.ubuntu.com/~henrik/examplecontent/video/ 

==== Some other possible video sources: ====

* What about the <nowiki>[[http://orange.blender.org/|Blender Orange Project]]</nowiki>? Perhaps ask them for a trailer?

* There might also be something available at the <nowiki>[[http://www.archive.org/details/movies|Internet Archive]]</nowiki>.

* Or the TV show go:open that is entirely about Open Source? We could find some good snippet from there and include it. Seems like the obvious choice to me.

* There are '''lots''' of short video clips with the (mostly liberal) licenses listed at <nowiki>[[http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Video|Wikipedia Commons]]</nowiki>. Check it out-- there are plenty of Theora-encoded files.

* There are loads of videos of XGL/Compiz around, many free to distribute etc. This would showcase some features as well as provide sample content

== Further Ideas ==

=== Productivity ===

* '''OOo writer:''' A one page description of Ubuntu and its derivatives -- Gather content from the website and wiki.
* '''OOo Draw:''' World map with Lo``Co teams drawn in. See <nowiki>[[http://www.openclipart.org/|OpenClipart]]</nowiki> for starting points.
* '''OOo Impress''' - presentation templates.
** <nowiki>[[attachment:BlueBoxes.otp|Blue Boxes Presentation Template]]</nowiki> -- Very professional-looking, from ooextras.org and converted to OOo2 format.

=== Books ===
Perhaps something from <nowiki>[[http://www.gutenberg.org/|Project Gutenberg]]</nowiki>?

What about a PDF of an out-of-copyright work of fiction from somewhere such as <nowiki>[[http://www.SmartSet.net/|SmartSet.net]]</nowiki> ? Example (Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad): <nowiki>[[http://www.smartset.net/cgi-bin/links/ajump.cgi?ID=b3|Link to PDF File]]</nowiki> It's full-length, but only 135K.

=== Search Plugins for Firefox ===
There are 2 very useful search plugins - for the forums and for the packages.
