{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page describes which packages and configuration files need to be installed on Ubuntu for Thai to be supported.

For other languages, see DapperL10nSprint.

=== Fontconfig Configuration ===

* The configuration listed in DapperL10nSprint/FontConfigPreferencesTaiwan works for Thai.

* Font priorities:
** Serif: Norasi, Kinnari
** San Serif: Loma, Garuda
** Monospace: Tlwg Typewriter

=== Fonts used ===

* ttf-thai-tlwg

=== Dictionaries ===

* myspell-th
* <nowiki>[[ftp://ftp.kitty.in.th/pub/sources/gdictthai/|gdictthai]]</nowiki>, with <nowiki>[[ftp://ftp.kitty.in.th/pub/ubuntu/kitty|deb packages]]</nowiki>

=== SCIM input method ===

* Thai support in SCIM is too primitive to use (only keysym translation, no input sequence validation)
* GTK+ apps: gtk-im-libthai, with im-switch setup:
<pre>
GTK_IM_MODULE="thai-libthai"
</pre>
* Qt/X apps will use XIM under the 'th' locale. im-switch setup, anyway, can ensure it's not overridden by system defaults:
<pre>
XMODIFIERS="@im=BasicCheck"
GTK_IM_MODULE="xim"  # in absence of gtk-im-libthai
QT_IM_MODULE="xim"
</pre>

=== Observations ===

* http://linux.thai.net/~thep/ubuntu/thai-issues.html and http://linux.thai.net/plone/TLWG/libthai have useful resources about other issues with Thai in GNU/Linux.
