{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

''Note the Ubuntu Bounty System is probably going to move into Launchpad soon, this is a temporary page to deal with Dapper Bounty requests in the interim''

'''Below are the bounties which are on offer for Ubuntu 6.06 (DapperDrake) due for release in June 2006. ''' <<BR>>
See the DapperReleaseSchedule for releated milestones and freeze dates.

Please take note of the bounty process laid out below to ensure that you understand how bounties work, and so no conflicts or confusion arise.

''If you have any questions, suggestions, proposals, general bright ideas, or want to claim one of the bounties please direct these to bounty@ubuntu.com ''<<BR>>

Ubuntu welcomes proposals for projects that will further the goals laid out below.
If you want to suggest a bounty, but not be the one to implement it, please add your ideas to the <nowiki>[<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/BountyProposals|bounty proposals]]</nowiki></nowiki>].

=== Bounty Process ===

   1. Contact bounty@ubuntu.com with the summary of your bounty in the subject line. Establish which project you are interested in and your credentials. ''* See list of required information below.''
   2. We will usually have some public discussion on the ubuntu-developers mailing list or wiki to establish the exact specification. The community has a chance to critique the bounty proposal and so that the owners of a project have a chance to have their say on code that may be included in their work.
   3. Submit a formal proposal which will be published in relevant fora. Others might submit competitive proposals.
   4. Depending on the nature of the work, we might make a commencement award to you to get you off the ground.
   5. Specify your expected bounty completion date and keep us informed on progress. Note that if you pass the expected completion date without delivering the completed bounty, the bounty will become open to all again..
   6. Once the code is accepted, to the satisfaction of people identified before you started (for example, the project owners if it involves work extended an existing project), we pay the agreed bounty.
   7. Bounties can and will expire. We will update the site with details.
   8. The Ubuntu Community Council's decision is final. In the event we have several competing submissions for a bounty, all completed within a month of the first one, we will award the bounty to the implementation we think is best.
*** Python is our preferred implementation language
*** Bazaar is our preferred revision control system

==== * Information required to be submitted with Bounty Proposals: ====

This is the minimum information which must be submited when making a proposal to claim a bounty.
* Name - please include your IRC Name and your Real Name as appropriate.
* Contact details - minimum of e-mail address, but a phone number and postal address would be helpful too.
* Title of the bounty you want to work on. Please also include a brief but clear description of the bounty if it is a new idea you are proposing.
* A completed SpecTemplate, filled out with concise but clear details of how you intend to complete the bounty. This can be found at: http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecTemplate, with directions on how to fill this out at: http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/SpecSpec. Note that in some cases a Spec will already have been created for the bounty - in this case please ensure it is completed and relevant.
* Name of Reviewer (the person responsible for approving and accepting completed bounty) - if you know who this will be, if not leave this open.
* Contact details of reviewer - minimum of e-mail address - as above.
* Your proposed start date to start working on the bounty (i.e. could be immediate, asap, or only on a specific future date if you already have current commitments, or by when you need it started, if you are offering the bounty)
* Time estimated to complete bounty (man days to complete piece of work) - try to scope the amount of effort required to complete the bounty task
* Estimated Completion Date - the date by when you expect your bounty delivery to be completed
* Priority - the priority listed on the bounty, or your estimate thereof
* Difficulty - your estimate of the technical complexity required.
* Milestones -  A couple of milestone checkpoints that can be tracked during the lifecycle of the bounty to see if it is proceeding on track.

-----

=== Dapper Bounties: ===

The items which may be considered as Dapper Bounties are those specs on the UbuntuBelowZero table, which have not yet been assigned for develeopment.

The lists is at:
https://launchpad.net/sprints/ubz/+specs

Note it is sorted by Priority - most essential, High and Medium priority specs have been assigned, so you may need to scroll down to view the unassigned specs.

The list may need to be filtered and refined, but for now we'll likely consider bounties on any DapperGoals which are not yet assigned for development.
