{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

<pre>
Subject: Announcing Beta release of Ubuntu 6.06

The Ubuntu team is proud to announce the Beta Release of 
Ubuntu 6.06 - codenamed "Dapper Drake". The Beta Release 
includes both installable live Desktop CDs and text-mode
install CDs for three architectures.

Ubuntu is a Linux distribution for your desktop or server, with a 
fast and easy install, regular releases, a tight selection of 
excellent packages installed by default, every other package you can
imagine available from the network, and professional technical support 
from Canonical Ltd and hundreds of other companies around the world.

Ubuntu 6.06 will be the first Ubuntu release with a long-term support 
cycle: three years on the desktop, and five years on the server.

To Get Ubuntu 6.06 Beta
-----------------------

Download Ubuntu 6.06 Beta here (choose the mirror closest to you):

  United States:
    http://us.releases.ubuntu.com/releases/6.06

  Europe:
    http://se.releases.ubuntu.com/6.06/

  United Kingdom:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.06/

  Rest of the World:
    http://releases.ubuntu.com/6.06/

Please download using Bittorrent if possible.

The final version of Ubuntu 6.06 is expected to be released in 
June. At that time, we will mail pressed CDs free of charge.

About Ubuntu 6.06 Beta
----------------------

To see it all, you'll need to try the CD, but the highlights 
include:

 On the Desktop

** A new live CD installer is available, allowing Ubuntu
    to be installed quickly and easily to your hard
    disk. (The Live CD is therefore now called the Desktop CD,
    since it now takes on some of the functions previously
    performed only by the Install CD.)

** Faster system startup and login

** Simplified menu organization

** Graphical shutdown process

** Easy access to power management settings with GNOME Power Manager

** Improved support for video playback

** Optional NetworkManager for convenient roaming between different
    wireless and wired networks

** GNOME 2.14.1

** OpenOffice.org 2.0.2

** X.org 7.0

 On the Server

** New kernels targeted at server platforms. The server kernels are tuned 
    differently than the desktop kernels (providing better performance for
    server applications). The lowend server kernel is generic, and should
    work on the same equipment that the desktop kernel runs on. The
    highend server kernel is geared towards systems with greater than 8 CPUs
    (ES7000/Summit/BIGSMP).

** Turn-key LAMP installation

** Improved support for clusters and SANs

** Numerous thin client enhancements, including faster client startup,
    graphical boot process, reduced memory requirements, and sound
    device support

 Localization

** Automatic setup of non-Latin input methods

** Menu item translations can now be included in language packs, 
    for faster integration of new and updated translations

 Installation and Upgrades

** The text-mode installer now runs in a single stage, rebooting
    straight into the complete system. This makes it faster,
    simpler, and more reliable.

** Ubuntu can now be installed to USB devices, such as removable hard drives
    and flash memory, using the text-mode installer

** A new upgrade tool is available, for simple, clean and reliable upgrades 
    from one Ubuntu release to the next, starting with Ubuntu 5.10

 "Under the hood"

** GCC 4.0.3

** glibc 2.3.6

** Linux 2.6.15.6

** New live CD infrastructure for improved performance, usability and 
    space-efficiency

** Greatly improved infrastructure for automatic hardware detection and activation

** The system PATH is now set in exactly one place, /etc/environment, for
    convenient administration

As always, Ubuntu includes the very best of the 100% Free / Libre 
application software world, and each new release incorporates 
countless new features and bugfixes from the global development 
community.

Feedback and Helping
--------------------

If you would like to help shape Ubuntu, take a look at the list of 
ways you can participate at

  http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate/

Your comments, bug reports, patches and suggestions will help turn 
this Beta into the best release of Ubuntu ever.  Please report 
bugs through the Launchpad bugtracker:

  http://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs

If you have a question, or if you think you may have found a bug but 
aren't sure, first try asking on the #ubuntu IRC channel on FreeNode, 
on the Ubuntu Users mailing list, or on the Ubuntu forums:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-users
  http://www.ubuntuforums.org/

More Information
----------------

You can find out more about Ubuntu and about this preview release on 
our website, IRC channel and wiki. If you're new to Ubuntu, please
visit:

  http://www.ubuntu.com/

To sign up for future Ubuntu announcements, please subscribe to Ubuntu's 
very low volume announcement list at:

  http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-announce
</pre>
