{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Contact Details ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Launchpad ID''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~schwuk|schwuk]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''schwuk''' on ''irc.freenode.net''
|-
| '''Homepage''':
| http://schwuk.com
|-
| '''Blog''':
| http://blog.schwuk.com/
|}

=== About Me ===

I manage the Infrastructure team within Professional & Engineering Services in Canonical where we provide tools and services to the rest of the group. Prior to this role I was a software engineer working primarily on web-based projects. I have also worked on Launchpad and Ubuntu. I'm also a father (of three, soon to be four) and a husband. I live near <nowiki>[[Wikipedia:Wigton|Wigton]]</nowiki>,  <nowiki>[[Wikipedia:Cumbria|Cumbria]]</nowiki> in the <nowiki>[[Wikipedia:UK|UK]]</nowiki>.

I was introduced to Linux for the first time in 1996 by a colleague. After trying various distributions, another colleague introduced me to OpenBSD which gave me my proper introduction to UNIX. After that I settled on Red Hat Linux, and subsequently Fedora. I switched to Ubuntu when Warty was released and have been running (and supporting) it ever since.

I joined Canonical in 2007, and have worked on both Launchpad and Ubuntu.

=== What I do for Ubuntu ===

==== The Official Ubuntu Book ====

I co-authored the second edition of  <nowiki>[[http://vig.prenhall.com/catalog/academic/product/0,1144,0132354136,00.html|The Official Ubuntu Book]]</nowiki>.

==== Translations ====

I am a member of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-en-gb|Ubuntu English (United Kingdom)]]</nowiki> translation team, and have contributed translations to Dapper and Feisty.

==== UK LoCo Team ====

I am member of the <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam|UK LoCo team]]</nowiki>, active on both the <nowiki>[[http://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/ubuntu-uk|mailing list]]</nowiki> and our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/IRC|irc channel]]</nowiki>. Along with other members I represented the team at the recent Linux World Expo in London, where I answered questions and generally promoted Ubuntu and the UK LoCo team. During the event I was active collecting signatures for our <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/CharityWork/ChildrenInNeedTShirt|charity T-shirt]]</nowiki>, including getting Jon 'Maddog' Hall to sign it. Finally I created the UK Loco Team <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UKTeam/Logo|logo]]</nowiki> (created entirely using FOSS) which has been approved by Canonical as an acceptable derivative of the Ubuntu logo.

==== Ubuntu UK Podcast ====

I designed their logo, website, and marketing materials, and have contributed both as a guest and behind the scenes.

==== General Support ====

I am active in the #ubuntu-testing, #ubuntu-quality, and #ubuntu-uk channels on IRC providing support where I can.

==== Wiki Pages ====

* I wrote the community document <nowiki>[[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MonoFromSource|Mono From Source]]</nowiki> for Hoary as the packaged version of Mono was quite out-of-date at that point
* I rewrote the <nowiki>[[http://wiki.rubyonrails.org/rails/pages/RailsOnUbuntu|Rails on Ubuntu]]</nowiki> page for the Ruby on Rails wiki for Dapper

==== Laptop Testing ====

* Whilst configuring a newly purchased laptop for a friend, I completed a <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LaptopTestingTeam/AcerAspire1654WLMi|laptop testing record]]</nowiki> for it. Unfortunately at the time, support for the laptop was limited so it was impossible to test everything

=== Non-Ubuntu, but Linux related ===

* I co-ordinate the Cumbria LUG
* I wrote <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.com/article.pl?sid=04/07/22/1718242|"How to run your own yum repository"]]</nowiki> - for linux.com
* I contributed hacks #49 "Share Applications and Monitors with screen" and #59 "Convert Your Mailbox" to <nowiki>[[http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/linuxdeskhks/|Linux Desktop Hacks]]</nowiki> published by O'Reilly
* <nowiki>[[http://www.cumbria.lug.org.uk/index.php?id=6|"Introducing Screen"]]</nowiki> is an article I wrote for my LUG, and formed the basis for my "Share Applications and Monitors with screen" hack for Linux Desktop Hacks
* My article about Open Source software for children was <nowiki>[[http://schwuk.com/articles/2006/9/27/published-again|published]]</nowiki> in issue 66 of Linux User & Developer
* My article "RADical Python" - an introduction to Rapid Application Development with Python and GTK - was <nowiki>[[http://schwuk.com/articles/2006/12/8/radical-python|published]]</nowiki> in issue 68 of Linux User & Developer
* I was the first <nowiki>[[http://lugradio.org|LugRadio]]</nowiki> fan. I helped crew LugRadio Live 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009. I also appear in a couple of episodes in the early seasons
* I wrote <nowiki>[[http://www.packtpub.com/managing-software-development-with-trac-and-subversion/book|"Managing Software Development with Trac and Subversion"]]</nowiki> published by Packt Publishing, Dec 2007
