{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Dave Jones, apply for Core-Dev''' (someone pick <nowiki>[[SimonChopin|schopin]]</nowiki> up off the floor, please).

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dave Jones
|-
| '''IRC'''
| waveform (Libera, OFTC, MM)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~waveform]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DaveJones|DaveJones]]</nowiki>
|}

I am applying to simplify wide-ranging changes to the archive ... which I
unwittingly keep getting dragged into. And because the architectures team in
Foundations is apparently the only team in Foundations with no Core-Devs. For
shame!

== Who I am ==

I'm the author of a few open source packages, and contributor to some others.
Most have some connection to the Raspberry Pi
(<nowiki>[[https://rpi-lgpio.readthedocs.io/|rpi-lgpio]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://pemmican.readthedocs.io/|pemmican]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://gpiozero.readthedocs.io/|GPIO Zero]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://picamera.readthedocs.io/|picamera]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://piwheels.org/|piwheels]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://pisense.readthedocs.io/|pisense]]</nowiki>, the
<nowiki>[[https://sense-emu-readthedocs.io/|Sense HAT emulator]]</nowiki>), others have only a
tenuous link (<nowiki>[[https://structa.readthedocs.io/|structa]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://github.com/agronholm/cbor2/pull/51|cbor2]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://nobodd.readthedocs.io/|nobodd]]</nowiki>). Since 2019, I've been a software
engineer on the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-foundations|Canonical Foundations]]</nowiki> team
where I'm primarily responsible for (surprise!) the Ubuntu for Raspberry Pi
images -- including the boot chain, configuration, firmware packages, new
hardware enablement, and so on.

If you've been to the engineering sprints or the Ubuntu summit, I'm the one
wandering around with the suspicious looking toolkit full of Pi.

== My Ubuntu story ==

<nowiki>[[DaveJones-MOTUApplication#My_ubuntu_story|Previously on "Dave's Ubuntu Story"]]</nowiki>

And now, on Dave's Ubuntu Story...

Having been on the Foundations team for slightly more than 5 years now, I have
somehow retained my sanity, though the same cannot be said for my ever thinning
hair. My complex love/hate relationship with Debian packaging continues, though
now aided by ever more tooling to prevent me from forgetting certain minutiae
(thank you, dput-ng!).

I've managed several complex merges of relatively significant packages,
including u-boot, flash-kernel, initramfs-tools, sbuild, and dbus (though
recent merges of initramfs-tools and sbuild were kindly handled by
BenjaminDrung). I've also handled MIRs, SRUs, and several other TLAs that we
like throwing around to confuse people.

I've occasionally dabbled in wide-ranging changes to our packaging (more on
these horrors below), seed changes, and meta-release changes (mostly fiddling
with imager JSON). All of which I should probably never have been let near
without some sort of license.

More recently I've also been involved in the patch pilot program, sponsoring
(particularly community) contributions as a MOTU.

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work ===

Available from udd for
<nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=dave.jones%40canonical.com&sponsor_search=email&sponsoree=*&sponsoree_search=name|sponsorships]]</nowiki>
and as
<nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=dave.jones%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|sponsoree]]</nowiki>,
but here's a selection of some of the more interesting bits I can recall:

* I commonly handle things for the Ubuntu Pi releases including <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~waveform/meta-release/+git/meta-release/+merge/472236|trivial]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~waveform/meta-release/+git/meta-release/+merge/473147|JSON]]</nowiki> updates for serving our images via rpi-imager (which I also maintain <nowiki>[[https://snapcraft.io/rpi-imager|the snap]]</nowiki> for). Being lazy like a coder, I naturally wrote <nowiki>[[https://git.launchpad.net/meta-release/tree/refresh_os_list?h=main|a script]]</nowiki> to do all the hard work for me.
 
* A <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/u-boot/+bug/2075352|recent u-boot merge]]</nowiki>. These aren't ''that'' complex these days, thanks to the (big) delta being split out on previous merges, but I also did the initial split on this, years ago.
 
* The <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python3-defaults/+bug/2075337|python3-defaults SRU bug]]</nowiki> involving localized diversion messages and py3clean. BenjaminDrung deserves the credit for much of the analysis on this bug. I suggested some adjustments to the fix, uploaded a ton of universe packages as a result, spent several days moronically looking at the wrong excuses page, but then managed to patch enough stuff (and hit retry enough times) to convince it to migrate. Many thanks to <nowiki>[[mfo]]</nowiki> for the SRU reviews!
 
* Yes, I've done some <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/u-boot/+bug/1869792|MIRs]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rpi-eeprom/+bug/1895137|too]]</nowiki>.
 
* And <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfsprogs/+bug/2044367|some]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cdrkit/+bug/1927944|syncs]]</nowiki>.
 
* I even <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~waveform/ubuntu-seeds/+git/ubuntu-seeds/+merge/400932|mess around]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~waveform/ubuntu-seeds/+git/ubuntu-seeds/+merge/400933|with]]</nowiki> <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~waveform/ubuntu-seeds/+git/ubuntu-seeds/+merge/417158|seeds]]</nowiki> on occasion.
 
* Many moons ago, I did some rather <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1959054|hairy work]]</nowiki> on debhelper, fixing a problem causing it to restart services even when explicitly told not to. This in turn led to a subtle but complex <nowiki>[[https://salsa.debian.org/pkg-debconf/debconf/-/merge_requests/10|change in dpkg-reconfigure]]</nowiki>. Perhaps as a result of this, people seem to be under the impression that I know what I'm doing with complex packaging issues. They're wrong, but that hasn't stopped them sponsoring for my fixes for it.

=== Things I could do better ===

* Packaging. Always packaging. Anyone who claims total knowledge of Debian packaging is lying. There is ''always'' more to learn here.

* SRUs. Sometimes I'm too lax with other's SRU uploads, particularly when it's ''insert-yet-another-pi-clone'' wanting to upload their ''custom-firmware/bootloader/config/delete-as-appropriate''.

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* Mentor my new partner-in-Pi, Pragyansh, on all the Pi related stuff in Ubuntu

* ''Maybe'', between us, start keeping up with changes streaming from RaspiOS

* No, I haven't thought any further than this -- I'm too swamped!

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
 
* The quality of certain snaps. To be fair, this has improved in some areas, e.g. the Firefox snap finally gained hardware acceleration on the Pi, but this was almost 9 months after it would've had it as a deb. And we're still <nowiki>[[https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft.io/issues/3969|lacking piles of snaps for ARM]]</nowiki> (again, improved, but not enough).
 
* The missing / broken bits of our infrastructure. Debian has code-search, which I relied upon for identifying affected packages in complex cases like the debhelper fixes above. But when it came to Ubuntu, "ask someone who has a mirror of the archive".
 
* And I still want a <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/launchpad/+bug/33796|preview button]]</nowiki> on Launchpad. Though again, I still love Launchpad's rendering speed on my Pi, and it really is the most elegant mechanism for tracking bugs in Debian packages.

----

== Comments ==

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here.
Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----

== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this
section.''

=== Lukas 'slyon' Märdian ===

==== General feedback ====

Having Dave as a Core-Dev (finally!) will be a nice value add for Ubuntu, and be visible mostly in the Raspberry Pi and Foundations areas.

Dave is very knowledgeable, understands Ubuntu's processes, puts lots of attention to details and is very good at documenting his findings. He does not hesitate to ask for advice if unsure and is very open in helping others getting along. He's an experienced Ubuntu developer and proved his skills using his previous PPU & MOTU powers, and being active as a patch pilot!

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I've sponsored several merges for Dave, some of which became a sync after Dave's investigation, dropping maintenance burden. He's doing a good job touching core packages, such as the big sbuild 0.85.2ubuntu1 merge for Mantic, which was nicely prepared as a git-ubuntu style branch. Dave made it very easy for the reviewer to understand the changes, using a well organized commit history. I've also followed some of his MIRs with my "main inclusion reviewer" hat on and can attest that they are very well worked out (although not always the fastest, which is totally fine!).

==== Areas of Improvement ====
* Dave took both my suggestions from his MOTU application to heart: Applying for Core-Dev and setting up dput-ng
* So there's not a lot that I could suggest here, other than keep spreading the Pi-Love!

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slyon]]</nowiki> 
=== Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak ===

==== General feedback ====

I double my general feedback from Dave's MOTU application: why isn't Dave a core dev ALREADY?

There's not much for me to add to what I already said during my MOTU endorsement. Dave is ready, has great understanding of the Ubuntu archive and the OS itself, working on multiple complex Debian packages. I wholeheartedly endorse Dave for membership in the Ubuntu Core Developer team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I sponsored many many uploads for Dave, and REGARDLESS OF WHAT HE SAYS, I was happy with all of them. Whenever I had concerns, those were possibly nitpicks and/or delusions of mine.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

None.

=== Robie Basak ===

Dave is a personal friend so I should abstain [from voting as a member of the DMB]. Please consider this an
endorsement though - although I haven't I haven't sponsored much for him
directly, I've worked with him closely enough over the years. I haven't
directly quizzed him but I'm pretty sure he has the necessary knowledge
and understanding across the various areas at
https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RobieBasak/DMB/CoreDev

Notably I refer to his expertise if I have queries about debhelper,
systemd and service unit interactions, especially in older releases.

  Perhaps as a result of this, people seem to be under the impression
  that I know what I'm doing with complex packaging issues.

I think this is because his mindset is the type we want - when he sees a
problem, he is inclined to dive deep to understand it, and is the sort
of engineer who can quickly establish a correct mental model even if the
problem space is extremely complex. This, together with touching
packaging for years, has resulted in him gaining a broad understanding
in the areas that I think are necessary for core dev.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:racb]]</nowiki> 

----

=== TEMPLATE ===

<pre>

=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===

==== General feedback ====

sponsor? How would you judge the quality? How would you describe the
improvements? Do you trust the applicant?)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could
have handled better.''

==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryCoreDevApplication]]</nowiki>
