{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Dave Jones, apply for upload rights for packages in the
<nowiki>[[https://people.canonical.com/~ubuntu-archive/seeds/platform.groovy/raspi-common|raspi-common seed]]</nowiki>
(in particular for:
linux-firmware-raspi2,
pi-bluetooth,
rpi-eeprom,
raspberrypi-userland (libraspberrypi0, libraspberrypi-bin),
flash-kernel),
and for u-boot.
'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dave Jones
|-
| '''IRC'''
| waveform (Freenode, OFTC)
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~waveform]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| <nowiki>[[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DaveJones|DaveJones]]</nowiki>
|}

I am applying to speed up the movement of updates (firmware updates in
particular from our Raspbian upstream) into the Ubuntu archive, and to reduce
the sponsorship burden.

== Who I am ==

I am the author of a few open source packages, and a contributor to several
others—most of them with some relation to the Raspberry Pi
(<nowiki>[[https://picamera.readthedocs.io|picamera]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://pibootctl.readthedocs.io|pibootctl]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://piwheels.org|piwheels]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://gpiozero.readthedocs.io|GPIO Zero]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://picraft.readthedocs.io|picraft]]</nowiki>,
<nowiki>[[https://pisense.readthedocs.io|pisense]]</nowiki>,
the <nowiki>[[https://sense-emu.readthedocs.io|Sense HAT Emulator]]</nowiki>,
etc. etc.). Since 2019, I have been a software engineer within the
<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~canonical-foundations|Canonical Foundations Team]]</nowiki>
where I'm primarily responsible for (surprise!) things related to our Raspberry
Pi images—including the boot chain, configuration, firmware packages, and new
hardware enablement. I also pitch in for non-Pi related work wherever I can.

== My Ubuntu story ==

I've been using Ubuntu since Feisty (in 2007?! I hadn't realized it was that
long…), and Linux more generally since about 2000 (mostly Gentoo prior to
moving to Ubuntu). I began using Ubuntu professionally in ~2010 while employed
as a DBA at IBM, during which time I shifted all the databases I was
responsible for from Windows and AIX platforms over to Ubuntu Linux.

In 2013, shortly after the release of the Raspberry Pi, a friend working at the
Pi Foundation sent me one of the (then new) camera modules, and I wound up
writing <nowiki>[[https://picamera.readthedocs.io|picamera]]</nowiki>, largely out of
frustration at the lack of an official Python interface. This was the first
piece of open source I'd written that had garnered more than cursory
attention—most of my efforts prior to this were obscure database related
gubbins—and since then I've found myself writing software for the Pi on an
almost constant basis.

In 2018, another friend convinced me to apply to Canonical which I did, joining
the Landscape team. This turned out to be a brief distraction from the Pi as
shortly after this in 2019, the Foundations team were hiring for a position
with responsibility for the Pi and the rest—as they say—is history.

=== My involvement ===

=== Examples of my work ===

==== Upload History ====

Available from
<nowiki>[[https://udd.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsor=&sponsor_search=name&sponsoree=dave.jones%40canonical.com&sponsoree_search=email|udd]]</nowiki>,
but a small selection (relevant to the packages being requested) is presented here:

* [2020-10-16] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pi-bluetooth/0.1.15ubuntu1|pi-bluetooth 0.1.15ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
 [restricted,merge] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~laney|laney]]</nowiki>)

* [2020-11-09] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/u-boot/2020.10+dfsg-1ubuntu1|u-boot 2020.10+dfsg-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
 [main,merge] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~mvo|mvo]]</nowiki>)

* [2021-01-12] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/flash-kernel/3.103ubuntu1|flash-kernel 3.103ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
 [main,merge] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sil2100|sil2100]]</nowiki>) -
 a complex merge of flash-kernel against the new Debian upstream. I've
 previously done merges of f-k via MoM, but more recently have been using
 git-ubuntu for this. Now that we have a reasonably clean split of the delta,
 the merge work is ''considerably'' easier. I'm currently in the process of
 doing the same for
 <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools|initramfs-tools]]</nowiki>.

* [2021-01-14] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rpi-eeprom/11.3-1ubuntu1|rpi-eeprom 11.3-1ubuntu1]]</nowiki>
 [multiverse,merge] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sil2100|sil2100]]</nowiki>) -
 a trivial merge of the latest upstream EEPROM, but worth noting the number of
 interim releases covered in the changelog. We don't bump this as often as we
 should in large part due to the friction of sponsorship.

* [2021-01-21] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware-raspi2/3-0ubuntu2|linux-firmware-raspi2 3-0ubuntu2]]</nowiki>
 [restricted,bugfix] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~sil2100|sil2100]]</nowiki>)

Additional examples (not related to the packages being requested):

* [2020-05-11] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/python-apt/1.9.0ubuntu1.4|python-apt 1.9.0ubuntu1.4]]</nowiki>
 [main,bugfix] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~juliank|juliank]]</nowiki>)

* [2020-10-19] <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-notifier/3.192.34|update-notifier 3.192.34]]</nowiki>
 [main,bugfix] (sponsor: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~brian-murray|bdmurray]]</nowiki>)

I've also contributed a
<nowiki>[[https://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/meta-release/ubuntu/view/head:/refresh_os_list|little script]]</nowiki>
to the
<nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/meta-release/ubuntu|meta-release]]</nowiki>
repository, which we use to automate the maintenance of the JSON defining the
available Ubuntu OS images in the Raspberry Pi Imager tool.

=== Areas of work ===

* I worked with the desktop and server teams during Groovy on the
 establishment of an official Ubuntu desktop image for the Raspberry Pi, and on
 the creation of per-device seed for our Raspberry Pi images (to stem the
 ever-rising tide of pi-related hacks in livecd-rootfs)

* I work with the <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-release|release team]]</nowiki> on
 all pi-related Ubuntu releases to perform hardware specific testing (he says,
 still painfully aware of the monumental screw-up that was
 <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-raspi2/+bug/1848790|LP: #1848790]]</nowiki>
 during the Eoan release)

* I frequently work with the Devices Certification team on hardware enablement
 or on chasing down regressions in existing supported devices

=== Things I could do better ===

* Packaging. Always packaging. Despite handling the odd complex merge like
 f-k (and currently initramfs-tools) there's still some fairly major gaps in my
 knowledge (though increasingly I suspect these come under the heading of
 "archive maintenance" rather than packaging per se)

* Start handing some Pi work off on other members of the squad (now we've got
 some more of them!)

== Plans for the future ==

=== General ===

* Moar packaging work! And perhaps begin to understand the myriad subtleties
 of archive maintenance

* Keep expanding hardware support for the Raspberry in Ubuntu

* Improve Ubuntu's Pi-specific tooling. In particular, despite the fact we
 have raspi-config copied into the archive, an awful lot of it is Raspbian
 specific and breaks on Ubuntu

* Try not to repeat any monumental screw-ups (see above)

* A port of piwheels to Ubuntu would be nice if I can find the time

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Our documentation is, to put it mildly, "lacking" in certain areas. As a
self-confessed documentation nerd this is something that irks me greatly, and
that I intend to correct. However, this is a long term project and involves
several tricky steps ("understand packaging to the point of being 'an
authority'", "understand the voodoo behind archive maintenance", "convince
world+dog that markdown is only barely adequate for documentation and that
sphinx is the One True Documentation System", etc. etc.)

----

== Comments ==

''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here.
Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----

== Endorsements ==

''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this
section.''

=== Łukasz 'sil2100' Zemczak ===

==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored quite a lot of packages for Dave in the last 2 years, most of which were packages for the Raspberry Pi ecosystem. During that time he was pulling in new upstream versions of packages, performing merges, preparing bugfix releases, working on various package migration issues and SRUs. Many of the packages he is working on are of high complexity, and Dave has demonstrated multiple times that he knows what he's doing (like during flash-kernel or u-boot merges, and there's always a lot to merge). He is thorough in his packaging work, always checking and testing his changes before looking for sponsorship.

Without Dave's work, our Raspberry Pi story would be nothing.

Seeing his history so far, I fully endorse Dave's PPU application. I even think with his current knowledge and experience he's good enough to become a core developer straight away.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Dave and I have a long history of working together on the Ubuntu Pi ecosystem, with Dave now being the main driver of all the Pi work there is. Whenever working on a new release, we frequently pull him into the release process and he's always very cooperative.

Being part of the same team, we also work on FTBFS, merges and proposed migration issues related to the packages we maintain.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

From the archive POV the one place where I would like to see improvement is keeping track of SRUs a bit better, making sure they are all prepared, verified and ready for release. But other than that, Dave is just awesome!

=== Brian Murray ===

==== General feedback ====

In addition to sponsoring multiple packages for Dave, I've also reviewed a lot of his work as a member of the Ubuntu Stable Release Updates team. I never had any issues or concerns with the work I've directly sponsored or reviewed as a SRU. Additionally, I feel it is worth mentioning that if I were still a member of the DMB I'd definitely vote in favor of his PPU access but would also consider him for core developer.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

I can't think of anything related to Dave's archive / SRU work that really needs improving.

----

=== TEMPLATE ===

<pre>

=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===

==== General feedback ====

sponsor? How would you judge the quality? How would you describe the
improvements? Do you trust the applicant?)

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could
have handled better.''

==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----

<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
