{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

==== Beginners Team Mission ====
The Beginners Team's mission is to guide a new Ubuntu user from the stage of new user through becoming an Ubuntu community contributor. Whether you are a developer or an end user the Ubuntu Community has a place where you can contribute and make a difference.

==== Problems and Solutions ====
'''problem''' The UBT session at UDS-O raised a concern that the process of joining the UBT and then being approved as a mentor was seen as too difficult and had too many 'hoops' to jump through. It was expressed that this caused people to not join.

'''current use case''' A person wants to work towards joining the documentation team. In order to join the Documentation Focus Group they must first become a UBT member. This process could take 1-3 months.

'''desired use case''' A person wants to work towards joining the documentation team. They join the Contributor FG and receive guidance on tasks related to the documentation team.

* '''solution 1''' Build a clear structure that is in-line with the goal for the UBT expressed above and allows mentors from other teams to contribute to the process w/o unnecessary red-tape
* '''solution 2''' Create open teams that people can join that are seeking guidance

----

'''problem''' The UBT currently lacks identified qualified mentors for their focus groups

* '''solution''' Create a community liaison who is tasked with working with existing teams to recruit mentors

----

'''problem''' The UBT currently lacks cohesive leadership
 
* '''solution 1''' have mandatory council meetings every month
* '''solution 2''' create a 'council email account' that sends messages to the team from the council

----

'''problem''' Meetings currently exclude active people that are in non-ideal timezones and allow non-active people to have input during meetings

* '''solution 1''' stop monthly meetings of the full-team
* '''solution 2''' FG leaders will give a team report to the council on a monthly basis
* '''solution 3''' general team members can have input via polls and the mailing list

==== Potential Beginners Team Structure ====
The Beginners team has three components:
* The Council: The council is responsible for making decisions for the team and setting the strategic goals for each cycle.
* The Core: This is a core group of individuals who have committed some of their time to assisting others learn how to make a contribution to the Ubuntu community. Members of the core will have an area of expertise that aligns with one of the focus groups. These core members will work directly with people seeking guidance and mentors coming from other teams.
* Focus Groups: These groups focus on a specific area of contribution and are open to anyone seeking assistance.
** User: This group is for new users making the transition to Ubuntu
** Contributor: This group is for non-developers looking to contribute and includes areas such as documentation, bug triage and quality assurance.
** Developer: This group is for people hoping to become core Ubuntu or application developers.

==== Timeline ====

Mid June
# Adopt new structure
# Identify Community Liaison (<nowiki>[[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu-beginners-projects/+spec/community-o-ubuntu-beginners|DarkwingDuck volunteered]]</nowiki>)

Early July
# Update wiki pages with new structure by July 1st
# Update wiki pages with guidelines on how existing teams can provide mentors
# Remove old LP teams
# Create new open LP teams
# Create new mailing lists

Mid to Late July
# Determine what UBT can mentor in based on recruited / approved mentors
# Work with UWN, OMG Ubuntu, Jorge and Jono to publicize the new UBT
# Work with FG team leads so they understand the blueprint system and can use it to manage the team

September
# Community liaison gather feedback from other teams on how the mentoring programs are working for them
# Use feedback from other teams to refine the mentoring process 

==== ADMIN ====
===== Top Level Page =====

===== All Pages =====
