{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About me ===

I work for Canonical as the Ubuntu Translations Coordinator (UTC) in the Community Team, and as such my job is to advise and represent Ubuntu translations, and act as a liaison with community translations leaders and upstreams.

If you've got any question about translating Ubuntu, joining translation teams, etc., you're at the right place ;) . You can always contact me in any of the forms listed below and I'll be glad to help you.

=== Contact ===

* IRC: dpm (irc.freenode.net)
* E-mail: david(dot)planella(at)ubuntu(dot)com
* <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~dpm|My Launchpad profile]]</nowiki>

I'm usually at the following IRC channels on Freenode:

* #ubuntu-cat
* #ubuntu-desktop
* #ubuntu-devel
* #kubuntu-devel
* #ubuntu-locoteams
* #ubuntu-motu
* #ubuntu-devel
* #ubuntu-translators

=== Summary of contributions to Ubuntu ===

I have been an Ubuntu user and contributor since Hoary. My main contributions have been in the localisation field within the UbuntuCatalanTranslators team, of which I am a translator and also currently lead. Being a <nowiki>[[http://l10n.gnome.org/users/dpm/|GNOME translator]]</nowiki> has also allowed me to facilitate the interaction between the Ubuntu downstream and GNOME upstream translations.

=== Detailed contributions to Ubuntu ===

* <nowiki>[[https://translations.edge.launchpad.net/~dpm|Translations]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[UbuntuCatalanTranslators-Llistat|Coordination]]</nowiki> of the UbuntuCatalanTranslators team

* Bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~dpm/+reportedbugs|reporting]]</nowiki> and <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/~dpm/+commentedbugs|commenting]]</nowiki>. Occasional bug <nowiki>[[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/conduit/+bug/333178|fixing]]</nowiki> and use of <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~dpm/+archive/ppa|PPA]]</nowiki> for testing.

* Forum <nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?do=finduser&u=48790|participation]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=57744362|started threads]]</nowiki>).

* <nowiki>[[http://www.google.co.in/search?q=site%3Alists.ubuntu.com+ubuntu-translators+david+planella|Participation]]</nowiki> in the ubuntu-translators mailing list.

* Member of the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~launchpad-beta-testers|Launchpad Beta Testers team]]</nowiki>

* I joined Canonical in April 2009 as the Ubuntu Translations Coordinator

=== Plans and ideas for Ubuntu in the near future ===

Work together with the Ubuntu translations community to make it even more awesome!

=== Other ===

I am also an active Debian and Translation Project translator, and I have also contributed to OpenOffice translations in the past.

=== Testimonials ===

* David is doing extraordinarily good work both as the coordinator of Ubuntu's Catalan Translators Team and upstream, and I consider him one of the main persons thanks to whom I can enjoy high quality translations of my desktop. Keep up the good work! -- <nowiki>[[RainCT]]</nowiki>  * David is a tireless, disciplined and empathetic coordinator. He shares with his groupmates detailed explanations of how improving their work according to his knowledge and/or point of view, which definitely represents a key aspect for any successful and lasting community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:toniher]]</nowiki>   
* David has been one of the most dedicated and productive volunteers I've worked with over the years. He's lucky to have an incredible drive to accomplish whatever goal he sets, and whatever he does is done with excellence. His contributions to Catalan in Free Software range a large number of projects, and it's always been a pleasure to work with him in the teams we've met, including the Ubuntu Catalan Translations effort. -- <nowiki>[[JordiMallach]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
CategoryCanonicalEmployee
