{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__

{{http://goo.gl/npVru}}
Versione di questa pagina in italiano: <nowiki>[[http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/DavideRiboli|qui]]</nowiki>.
=== Info ===
* My name is Davide Riboli, I was born in 1963 in Pesaro, Italy.
* I've received the name "Homitsu" in 2001, after 7 years of Rinzai Zen at the Zenshinji Monastery of Zenshinji Bukkosan in Italy.
* I'm  a professor of "Information Processing" and "Multimedia Authoring" at IUAV University in Venice, at ISIA Urbino and at the Academy of Fine Arts Urbino [all in Italy].

=== Ubuntu related ===
* All my actual Ubuntu activities are logged on <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~davideriboli|my Lauchpad account]]</nowiki>.
* All my courses are based on Ubuntu.
* I took part in official italian groups "Ubuntu Promozione" and "Ubuntu Test".

=== Linux related ===
* I'm one of the founders of the <nowiki>[[http://urbino-lug.tumblr.com/|Urbino-LUG]]</nowiki>.
* I've worked to the italian localization of Linux Mint [see my <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/~davideriboli|Lauchpad account]]</nowiki>].
* I contributed to the opening of the <nowiki>[[http://linuxmint.mirror.garr.it/mirrors/linuxmint/ | Italian Linux Mint Mirror]]</nowiki> on GARR.
* I wrote <nowiki>[[http://community.linuxmint.com/tutorial/from/16902 | some tutorials]]</nowiki> for the Linux Mint Community.
* I occasionally participate in the activities of the <nowiki>[[http://www.archlinux.it/ | Arch Linux]]</nowiki> Community.

=== PGP Public Key ===
* If you want to secure mail me, please <nowiki>[[http://davideriboli.net/void/?page_id=2587 |use this key]]</nowiki>.

=== Contacts ===
* <nowiki>[[http://gplus.to/riboli | Google+]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[http:davideriboli.net | Blog]]</nowiki>;
* <nowiki>[[https://twitter.com/#!/DavideRiboli | Twitter]]</nowiki>.

----
CategoryHomepage
