{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== David Ernst ===

I live and work in Bloomington, Indiana.  For about eight years, I was the director of <nowiki>[[http://www.bloomington.in.us|HoosierNet, Inc.]]</nowiki>, a small non-profit Community Network and Internet Service Provider here in town.  Sadly, the organization closed its doors in fall of 2006.  Since then I have been working as an independent consultant, which has been keeping me quite busy.  I have done (and still do) extensive web development using perl and MySQL, and nowadays I'm doing more and more using Ruby on Rails.  I'm sure my skills as a Network and Systems administrator are getting rusty, but I sure did a lot of that for a long time.  

My first exposure to linux was around 1995.  I was using it then only as a server platform, attracted by its stability and flexibility.    I've been using it on the desktop for about half that time, long enough that anything else seems foreign to me.  I find Ubuntu to be far and away the best desktop linux, as measured by ease of installation and maintenance, and the degree to which things "just work".  So, I'm happy to be on a team promoting its adoption.  I'm also happy to be promoting diversity in the world of operating systems.  No one benefits when one company's software runs everywhere.  

Anyway, you know, the normal stuff.  You can <nowiki>[[http://davidernst.net/blog|read my blog]]</nowiki> if you want to.  I write about linux there occassionally, but usually it's just whatever I feel like.  
