{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

'''I, David Medberry, apply for upload rights for package walinuxagent and hv-kvp-daemon-init.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| David Medberry
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~med
|}

== Who I am ==
''Open Source developer working with Debian since 2004 and Ubuntu since 2005.''

== My Ubuntu story ==
''I've been involved with Debian since 2004, working in Hewlett-Packard's Open Source lab in support of their telco debian product. A number of packages were built to add functionality that was not present or not timely in upstream Debian. (These packages were always pushed into Debian ultimately, see makedumpfile for instance.) With the introduction of Ubuntu, I immediately switched to Ubuntu for my desktop usage. I've been a proponent/advocate for Ubuntu ever since. LaMont Jones may be willing to comment on my early adoption of Ubuntu. I've had a launchpad id since 2006.''

=== My involvement ===
''My involvement is on multiple levels: I've been an Ubuntu user for... well, nearly for as long as there has been an Ubuntu desktop. I've been doing Ubuntu Cloud work for two years including Ubuntu Server work, Eucalyptus, OpenStack and public cloud (images, cloud utilities, etc.)''

=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
https://launchpad.net/~med/+uploaded-packages

=== Areas of work ===
''I've worked primarily with Ben Howard (utlemming) on cloud image work. I've worked with Ante' Karamatic (ivoks), Chuck Short (zul), and others on OpenStack. I've worked upstream on OpenStack as well.  This request is specifically for PPU rights on walinuxagent and hv-kvp-daemon-init which are packages specifically involved in cooperating with Microsoft's Windows Azure cloud and their hyper-v hypervisor. I've done bug fixes, tests, and contributed some code.''

=== Things I could do better ===

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===
''I will be contributing code upstream in OpenStack as well as likely doing bugfixes. Similarly I will be doing the same for cloud-image work and packages that support public clouds (such as Windows Azure and AWS.)''
=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===
----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
<nowiki>[[CategoryPerPackageUploaderApplication]]</nowiki>
