{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; no-repeat; font-size: 0.8em; width:20%; background:#CCCC99; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"><<BR>>
|}

=== Details ===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| David Mullins
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~david.mullins
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/davidpmullins
|-
| '''Home Site'''
| http://david.mullins.name
|-
| '''Twitter'''
| http://twitter.com/david_p_mullins
|-
| '''Academia'''
| http://itsligo.academia.edu/DavidMullins
|}

=== Current Position ===
* CEO at <nowiki>[[http://www.davit.ie|DAVIT]]</nowiki>. 
* promoter at <nowiki>[[http://www.SligoBusinessnetwork.com|Sligo Business Network]]</nowiki>

=== About ===
Described many times as an inspiring serial entrepreneur and innovator. Goals which inspire creative thinking, innovation and a pragmatic approach. Designed houses, bus, boat, aircraft and built them, now currently developing new technology for the next century.

A career doted rubbing shoulders with like minded entrepreneurs, innovators and hard workers. Leading into areas of advanced networks, communications, manufacturing and financial sectors, with companies like <nowiki>[[http://www.ibm.com/uk/en/|IBM]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.odenberg.com/|Odenberg]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.americanexpress.com/|American Express]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.intertanko.com|Intertanko]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.maxtor.com/home-en-us.html|Maxtor]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.britishrail.com/|BR]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Railtrack|Railtrack]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.spieshecker.com/portal/|Spies Hecker]]</nowiki>, and many others. Keenly aware of (networked) Internet commerce before its birth, led one of the first funded courses in Ireland and UK, instrumental in Internet Specialist Groups in Europe and early day teleworking Industries. Initiated topics of Internet Law and secure transaction. Pioneered Notes training, before IBM takeover and later partnered with IBM.

=== Specialities ===

Specialise in new visual media research, holography, Photonics, Optical Metrology and the advancement of 3D visual media.

=== Projects ===

 <<build a todo list>>

=== Industry ===
 Information Technology and Services 

=== Other activities ===

Sailing as much as possible and a solo Transat, transatlantic boat race at some stage.

----

----
=== Contact ===

* <nowiki>[[http://david.mullins.name|David P. Mullins Name ]]</nowiki>. 
----
===== See also =====
* <nowiki>[[DavidPMullins|David P. Mullins]]</nowiki> 
* <nowiki>[[davidpmullins|(davidpmullins)]]</nowiki> 
