{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__


* '''Launchpad Entry''': https://blueprints.edge.launchpad.net/ubuland/+spec/web-stats
* '''Created''': July 29 2008
* '''Contributors''': David Futcher, Greg Auger

=== Summary ===

A lightweight frontend to the Piwik web analytics system, to provide a simple system to provide web statistics to Ubuland users.

=== Rationale ===

There are very few web hosting systems that give a simple web analytics system. Implementing this will give us a good advantage to 'competitors' or non-believers.

=== Use Cases ===

Jono runs a small blog, he want to know how many people visit his website, but doesnt want to have to install a heavyweight stats package on his limited webspace.

=== Implementation ===

The system will be implmented in two parts: A wrapper round Piwik's API (a simple class that can be easily called from other parts of the website) and a frontend, which will be integrated into the UCP (and perhaps ACP).

==== Code Changes ====

The UCP will need to be changed to link to a Piwik page which will show simple stats. No other sections of code will need to be changed (the rest will be written from scratch)

=== Test/Demo Plan ===

This should hopefully be written by alpha-three and should definately be implemented by beta-one.

=== Implementation Plan ===

The wrapper needs to be written first, then the web frontend written on top of that.

=== Useful Links ===
* <nowiki>[[http://dev.piwik.org/trac/wiki/API|Piwik API]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://dev.piwik.org/trac/wiki/API/Reference|Piwik API Reference]]</nowiki>
* <nowiki>[[http://dev.piwik.org/trac/wiki/API/CallingTechniques|Piwik PHP API Examples]]</nowiki>

----
CategorySpec
