{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== About David ===
I have been a Linux user for around 8 years. I started with Red Hat Linux 7 then jumped from one distro to the other (Fedora, Gentoo, Suse) until I settled down with Ubuntu ( I remember the codename at that time was Warty Warthog) when it first came out.

=== Why using Ubuntu? ===
I chose to stay with Ubuntu for the simple reason that I know the Ubuntu community works hard at keeping the distribution fun to use and to work with. I can find a lot of support both online and offline to the questions and problems I encounter. Also, I feel that the Ubuntu community is always active and focused on driving Ubuntu to the next level. For example, new releases come every 6 months with tones of new features and new software. I enjoy having the opportunity to install a fresh OS every six months and explore the new features introduced:)

Seeing this great open source project taking shape, I also really feel I should contribute, and participate as much as I can to continue driving Ubuntu to the next level. I am interested in going through the necessary steps needed to become part of the Ubuntu community and contribute in developing the OS. I would like to work on bug reports, packaging, and also implementing new features for the Ubuntu project.

=== Areas of Interest ===
Firefox, Gnome, Desktop, Mozilla, Kernel and/or anything related with the web.

=== Timezone ===
Pacific Standard Time (PST) / Pacific Time (PT)

=== Availabilities ===
evening weekdays: 7pm to 11pm, all-day:weekends
