{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

David D Lowe is the programmer of Epidermis, currently hosted on launchpad.net:
https://launchpad.net/epidermis

Epidermis is a theme manager for GNOME (Ubuntu and Debian unstable are supported).

Work on Ubuntu:
* A patch to gdm-guest-session, fixing three bugs, was <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm-guest-session/0.8|accepted in jaunty]]</nowiki>
* Participated with code to Ubuntu's USB creator, it is still <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~flimm/usb-creator/warn-before-format/+merge/17177|pending review]]</nowiki>.
* My Ubuntu-specific patch to Istanbul, fixing <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/istanbul/+bug/63996|a critical bug]]</nowiki>, was accepted.
* My Ubuntu-specific patch to policykit-gnome, fixing <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/policykit-gnome/+bug/530829|a usability bug]]</nowiki>, was accepted.
* I've reported many Ubuntu bugs, <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=&orderby=-importance&field.status:list=NEW&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INCOMPLETE_WITHOUT_RESPONSE&field.status:list=INVALID&field.status:list=WONTFIX&field.status:list=CONFIRMED&field.status:list=TRIAGED&field.status:list=INPROGRESS&field.status:list=FIXCOMMITTED&field.status:list=FIXRELEASED&assignee_option=any&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=flimm&field.bug_supervisor=&field.bug_commenter=&field.subscriber=&field.component-empty-marker=1&field.tag=&field.tags_combinator=ANY&field.status_upstream-empty-marker=1&field.has_cve.used=&field.omit_dupes.used=&field.affects_me.used=&field.has_no_package.used=&field.has_patch.used=&field.has_branches.used=&field.has_no_branches.used=&search=Search|see the list for Ubuntu]]</nowiki>.

Work related to Ubuntu:
* Developed ooo-thumbnailer and submitted it to Debian. Version 0.1~alpha2-1ubuntu1 is in Ubuntu, the latest version is in Debian testing, and is <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ooo-thumbnailer/+bug/539072|awaiting sync approval]]</nowiki>.
* Contributed <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~flimm/quickly/better-new/+merge/21384|a patch]]</nowiki> to quickly, making it more pythonesque.
* Contributed <nowiki>[[https://code.launchpad.net/~flimm/python-snippets/gtkcrashhandler/+merge/20388|a Python module]]</nowiki> to python-snippets.
* Worked on <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/~flimm|many bugs]]</nowiki>.
