{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

Acerca de mí:<<BR>>
Hola a todos, soy de Costa Rica y actualmente estudio para obtener mi grado de maestría en Ciencias de la Computación e Informática en la Universidad de Costa Rica (UCR). También soy músico desde hace 11 años cuando toqué mis primeras notas de guitarra.
Usé linux intermitentemente desde el 2003 hasta el 2005, año en que me decidí a realizar el cambio por completo. Escogí Ubuntu por ser basado en Debian, su excelente comunidad y además, me gusta como se manejan las cosas. Es probable que me vean posteando en los foros de ayuda :)

Estado actual:<<BR>>
Actualmente ayudo a desarrollar <nowiki>[[http://www.jokosher.org/|Jokosher]]</nowiki>. Es un nuevo y único programa para la grabación de audio, utilizando GStreamer como su backend. Si tiene interés en trabajar con audio en Linux, "definitivamente" debería probarlo! La siguiente entrega está programada para mayo del 2007.

About me:<<BR>>
Hi everyone, I'm from Costa rica and I'm currently studying for my CS Masters degree at the Universidad de Costa Rica (UCR). I'm also a musician since 11 years ago when first picked up the guitar.
I used linux in and out from 2003 to 2005, time when I decided to take the plunge and stick completely to it. I chose Ubuntu because it's Debian based, the community is great and I like it's way to handle things. You'll probably see me posting around the forums trying to help people out :)

Current status:<<BR>>
I'm currently helping develop <nowiki>[[http://www.jokosher.org/|Jokosher]]</nowiki>, which is a unique new program for recording audio that uses GStreamer as it's backend. If you're interested in working with audio in Linux, you should "definitely" check it out! Our next release will be on May 2007.
