{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

This page should describe how to setup DAViCal on a Ubuntu-Server 9.10 Karmic-Koala machine.

Since we want to keept it as simple as possible we stick to 
the DAViCal packages which is maintained by Ubuntu.

* First lets find out with which package we will work:

<code> apt-cache policy davical </code>

<pre> Installed: 0.9.7-0
     Candidate: 0.9.7-0
     Version table:
0.9.7-0 0
         500 http://ramses.wh2.tu-dresden.de karmic/universe Packages
         100 /var/lib/dpkg/status </pre>

* Ok, lets install the package:

<pre> sudo aptitude install davical
[sudo] password for yourusername: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Reading extended state information      
Initializing package states... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  apache2-mpm-prefork{a} davical libanydata-perl{a} libapache2-mod-php5{a} 
  libawl-php{a} libclass-data-inheritable-perl{a} 
  libclass-dbi-abstractsearch-perl{a} libclass-dbi-perl{a} 
  libclass-dbi-pg-perl{a} libclass-trigger-perl{a} libclone-perl{a} 
  libdbd-anydata-perl{a} libdbd-csv-perl{a} libdbd-pg-perl{a} 
  libdbi-perl{a} libdbix-contextualfetch-perl{a} libima-dbi-perl{a} 
  libio-stringy-perl{a} liblingua-en-inflect-perl{a} libnet-daemon-perl{a} 
  libplrpc-perl{a} libpq5{a} libsql-abstract-limit-perl{a} 
  libsql-abstract-perl{a} libsql-statement-perl{a} libsub-uplevel-perl{a} 
  libtest-exception-perl{a} libtext-csv-xs-perl{a} libtie-ixhash-perl{a} 
  libuniversal-moniker-perl{a} libxml-twig-perl{a} libxml-xpath-perl{a} 
  libyaml-perl{a} libyaml-syck-perl{a} php5{a} php5-common{a} php5-pgsql{a} 
  postgresql-client-8.3{a} postgresql-client-common{a} 
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  apache2-mpm-worker{a} 
0 packages upgraded, 39 newly installed, 1 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 7,423kB of archives. After unpacking 21.4MB will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] </pre>

As next step we install '''postgrefs''' as the database.

<pre> user@machine:~$ sudo aptitude install postgresql-8.3
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Reading extended state information      
Initializing package states... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  postgresql-8.3 postgresql-common{a} 
0 packages upgraded, 2 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 5,218kB of archives. After unpacking 15.0MB will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] </pre>
