{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| <tablestyle="float:right; font-size: 0.9em; width:30%; background:#F1F1ED; margin: 0 0 1em 1em;" style="padding:0.5em;"> '''Launchpad''':
| <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/davromaniak|davromaniak]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''IRC''':
| '''davromaniak''' (''freenode'')
|-
| '''Email''':
| cyril.lavier@gmail.com
|-
| '''GPG''':
| 0x1D59E694
|-
| '''Blog''':
| <nowiki>[[http://www.davromaniak.eu/|http://www.davromaniak.eu/]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Repository (Sleeping for the moment)''':
| <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu.davromaniak.eu/|Dépomaniak]]</nowiki>
|-
| '''Jabber''':
| davromaniak@jabber.ubuntu-fr.org
|-
| '''Location''':
| Alfortville, Val-De-Marne (94), France
|}

== About Me ==

I'm a 23 year old sysadmin. I work now for <nowiki>[[http://www.ltutech.com/|LTU Technologies]]</nowiki>, .

I live near Paris.

== Ubuntu involvement ==

=== ubuntu-fr-classroom membership ===

I'm a member of this group, along with some MOTU/Coredev (Adri2000, Toadstool, mr_pouit, Lutin, lionel, gpocentek...) we help french to progress and to present the various facets of Ubuntu Involvement.

=== ubuntu-fr-party ===

I'm a part of the ubuntu-fr-party team, which organize conferences, install-parties, and spread Ubuntu during exhibitions in France.

Here is a list of these events : 

* June 2006, Paris : I was a part of the install party, I ordered stickers and burned CDs for the installation (around 100 people, in only one afternoon, great).

* September 2006, Paris : Helped other Ubuntu-fr members at "La Fête de l'humanité" 2006 during 2 days.

* November 2006, Paris : I was a part of the install party, I ordered stickers and burned CDs for the installation, I also helped chiefs to organize this party (around 150 people in one afternoon).

* December, 12th 2006, Paris : I was a part of a 60 minute conference in a private High-School in Paris X (Lycée Bossuet Notre-Dame).

* January 30th, 31st and February 1st 2007 : Helping Ubuntu-fr spreading Ubuntu in an exhibition called Solutions Linux (Linux Solutions in english) during 3 days.

* May, 12th 2007 : Helping the organization of an event called the "Feisty-vités", it's a kind of Feisty Day that will take place in Paris, in the exhibition park called "La Vilette". I was the master of the conferences rooms, and I was presenting a conference about packaging programs. There was a record of attendance for this event, about 1000 people came to this event.

* June, 30th 2007 : Being a part of the organization of an Ubuntu Party, in La Vilette, Paris. I was the master of the conference room.

* September 2007, Paris : Helped other Ubuntu-fr members at "La Fête de l'humanité" 2007 during 2 days.

* November, 3rd and 4th 2007 : Being a part of the organization of the parisian Ubuntu Party, in La Villette, Paris, about 3000 people came to this event

* January 29th to 31rd 2008 : Helping Ubuntu-fr spreading Ubuntu in an exhibition called Solutions Linux (Linux Solutions in english) during 3 days.

* June, 7th and 8th 2008 : Being a part of the organization of the parisian Ubuntu Party, I held an initiation training about Command Line Interface.

* September 2008, Paris : Helped other Ubuntu-fr members at "La Fête de l'humanité" 2008 during 2 days.

* November 29th and 30th 2008 : Being a part of the "head" organizator  (nicknamed the "kernel of parisian ubuntu-party" or "bainisteoirs" in gaelic, ;)), I also held, with Aurélien Couderc, an initiation training about Command Line Interface. The event was attended by 4000 people, :D. More information : http://blog.didrocks.fr/index.php/post/Ubuntu-Party-Paris%3A-more-than-4-000-visitors!

* March 31st, April 1st and 2nd 2009 : I'm the coordinator of the Ubuntu-fr stand in the exhibition called Solutions Linux (Linux Solutions in english) during 3 days.

* May 2009 : Being a part of the "head" organizator  (nicknamed the "kernel of parisian ubuntu-party" or "bainisteoirs" in gaelic, ;)), I also held, with Aurélien Couderc, an initiation training about Command Line Interface. The event was attended by 4000 people, :D. The 4K Team strikes again, :).

* July 2009 : Ubuntu-fr at the RMLL

=== Packaging ===

Ubuntu

* encadre-image (Ubuntu Feisty, backported to Edgy, and upgraded for Gutsy)

* youtranslate (Ubuntu Gutsy)

* kitsune (Ubuntu Gutsy)

* qtpfsgui (Ubuntu Gutsy)

For more information, please see this page : https://launchpad.net/~davromaniak/+packages

=== Translation ===

* I translated some string from english to french in Rosetta.

* I'm the official translator of QTPFSGUI : http://qtpfsgui.sourceforge.net

== Other involvement ==

* I created the LAMPPIAK which was an installer for Apache, Mysql, PostGreSQL and PHP written in Bash, now it's a dead project, because I don't have enough time to work on it, and the utility of this program wasn't big enough to continue the support and the development of it.

* Address : http://www.davromaniak.eu/index.php?category/Lamppiak

* I maintaining since June 2006 a french written blog called "Le Blog du Davromaniak", since 2008-12-24 it changes his name in "Le site de Cyril "Davromaniak" Lavier, sysadmin ascendant geek" and might will welcome an English part.

== Plans ==

* I would like to help people to learn packaging, I consider packaging as a kind of art, and I would "teach" packaging to most people.

* I also would to show the backstage of Ubuntu, with this different view, the final user can see how Ubuntu is made, and can see how much work there is behind a release.
 
* Considering ubuntu-fr-party and conferences, I would continue this adventure, I take so much pleasure during conferences, and days of Ubuntu Party

* Considering packaging, I would continue to maintain applications, and continue packaging.

* And to be original, when I will have enough experience in Ubuntu packaging, why not trying to become a MOTU, :)

== Testimonials ==

[GauvainPocentek]: I think I know Cyril since I'm in touch with the French Ubuntu Community. I've seen him active on various sides of Ubuntu, from (great) help given to users to packaging to real life conferences. He is always deeply and truly involved in everything he does, always giving good results to what he works on. I'd be happy to see him an official ubuntu member soon :)
