{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Dawid van Wyngaard ===

=== About Me ===

Description...mmm...always a hard thing to do for oneself. Its best, in my opinion, to let other describe you...gives you a true reflection of oneself! But none the less...here goes:

I'm currently a Senior Manager: IT Delivery in Johannesburg, South Africa working for one of the Mobile Operators in Africa. It's exciting, pressured and full of challenges, like any other job I presume. I have started getting involved in OpenSource about 7-8 years ago and haven't look back, as most of my other OpenSource compatriots. Ubuntu, I have been using this since V5.10 and currently running 9.04 Beta on my laptop, 8.04 on some of my test servers.

I like working on Ubuntu server and desktop based software and I'm continually building servers and the relevant systems like mail, ldap, web and database services on them, for friends and some businesses. I like programming a lot, mostly in PHP, but I venture on some coding in C# using MonoDevelop.

I always wanted to give more to this project, Ubuntu in general, and got a way to start giving rather than taking. I hope I can be of assistance wherever my knowledge would allow, and where it doesn't, I can learn fast, adapt and then assist.

=== Why Ubuntu? ===

Well...that is a rhetorical question! ....because it works, just about sums it up! It reliable, stable and has a marvelous community that is more than willing to assist.

=== What am I involved in? ===

* Ubuntu Translation
* Ubuntu Stats
* Ubuntu Weekly News Letter
* Where ever I can be useful!

=== Contact details ===

* Email:  *Launchpad: http://launchpad.net/~dawid-i-services
* IRC: I am, normally, '''''raven''''' or '''''DarkRaven''''' at irc.freenode.net
* Skype: ''dvwyngaa''
* My GPG key is: B25232ED

...

----
CategoryHomepage
