{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== Requirements ===

# ''Availability:'' <nowiki>[[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/d/dbconfig-common]]</nowiki>; available for all supported architectures or some subset ?
# ''Rationale:''
** Build dependency for OBM (Apart of the calendaring spec, yet to be filed)
 0. ''Security:''
** No <nowiki>[[http://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvekey.cgi?keyword=dbconfig-common|CVE]]</nowiki> entries.
** No <nowiki>[[http://secunia.com/search/?search=dbconfig-common|Secunia]]</nowiki> history.
** No binaries running as root or suid/sgid.
** No daemons 
** No network activity and does not open up a port.
** It does setup databases used by various packages including OBM.
** No source code review performed.
 0. ''Quality assurance:''
** In what situations does the package not work out of the box without configuration ?
** No debconf questions asked.
** <nowiki>[[http://bugs.debian.org/src:dbconfig-common|Debian bugs]]</nowiki>.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dbconfig-common.html|Maintenance in Debian]]</nowiki> is vigorous.
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dbconfig-common.html|Upstream]]</nowiki> is vigorous
** <nowiki>[[http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/dbconfig-common.html|Upstream bug tracker]]</nowiki>.
** Does not require any special hardware to run.
** No test suite.
 0. ''Standards compliance:'' 
** <nowiki>[[http://www.pathname.com/fhs/|FHS]]</nowiki>, <nowiki>[[http://www.de.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/|Debian Policy]]</nowiki> compliant.
** <nowiki>[[http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/column/libpkg-guide/libpkg-guide.html|Debian library packaging guide]]</nowiki> standards compliant.
** Uses debhelper with no patching system and no oddities.
 0. ''Dependencies:''
** debhelper (>= 4.0.0)
** debiandoc-sgml, 
** po-debconf
** gs, texlive-latex-recommended | tetex-bin, 
** texlive-latex-extra | tetex-extra, 
** texlive-fonts-recommended | tetex-extra
** ucf
** All are in main.

=== Reviewers ===

MIR bug: <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/BUGNUMBER]]</nowiki>

''ChuckShort''
