{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

=== David Coles ===
Hi, I'm '''David Coles'''. I'm currently a 4rd year ''Software Engineering''/''Discrete Maths'' at <nowiki>[[http://www.unimelb.edu.au|The University of Melbourne]]</nowiki>. This year I'm going to be on a year long exchange to <nowiki>[[http://www.ed.ac.uk|The University of Edinburgh]]</nowiki> in Scotland. I've been involved as a committee member of <nowiki>[[http://www.mucsa.org|MUCSA]]</nowiki> in 2007 as well as volunteering for <nowiki>[[http://www.linux.conf.au|linux.conf.au]]</nowiki> earlier this year.

I started using Linux at the end of 2004 as something to do between the end of High School and the start of my course. I began with ''Fedora Core 3'' and followed that for a while then jumped over to using ''Warty'' very briefly (I've still got the packaged CD's on my desk) before moving over to using ''Slackware'' on my ancient K6 Laptop (as well as tinkering around with ''Gentoo'', ''NetBSD'' and ''Minix''). I've using Ubuntu on my desktop machine and this year decided to switch my home server over to using ''Ubuntu Server'' after being driven up the wall by a few of ''Fedora 9's'' bleeding edge features.

My interests are in Networking, VoIP Telephony, Graphics.

==== Contact ====
Email: 
==== External Links ====
* <nowiki>[[http://www.student.unimelb.edu.au/dcoles/|My University Homepage]]</nowiki>

----
CategoryHomepage
