{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

== Bzr Repository ==
We use a shared bazaar branch in SVN-style mode.
<pre>
bzr checkout sftp://bazaar.launchpad.net/~dct/dct/main
bzr update
bzr commit

bzr commit --local
bzr update
bzr commit
</pre>

The branch is supposed to be available using HTTP <nowiki>[[http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~dct/dct/main|here]]</nowiki>, but the update frequency is unclear (once a day ? <nowiki>[[http://ddaa.net/blog/launchpad/bzr-hosting|source]]</nowiki>). Also, there's a web page <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/people/dct/+branch/dct/main/|here]]</nowiki> with more information available.

== General workflow ==

We work together using a bazar repository (see above). It contains all the team's info, including :
* for each package (organized in a pool-like structure)
** some metadata (to be determined, but will probably include comments, for example)
** a changelog (debian format) to list what has been done (which bugs where filed in debian, etc)
* the base files used to determine the list of packages to care for (based on Maintainer:, and on manually included/excluded packages)
* useful scripts, including :
** a script to generate the list of packages we have to care for
** a script to generate html pages listing the status of each of those packages, including :
** version in debian unstable
** version in ubuntu, dev version
** last version reviewed
** who were the last DCT members to take care of the package
** the status of the package : has it already been reviewed (is the version in the dct changelog the same as the one in ubuntu ?)
** probably some handy scripts, including a hack around dch to be able to edit the changelogs easily

Additionnally, on the Wiki, there should be :
* Examples of emails, so we can just copy/paste them
* Detailed explanations for reasons of divergence between Ubuntu and Debian, to be able to educate the Debian maintainer

'''TODO''': investigate the use of usertags in the Debian BTS, so we can have DCT-specific tags. If somebody has some nice resources about usertags, it would be really nice.

RaphaelHertzog: Usertags are not (yet) documented except through mails on debian-devel-announce. Basically you just have to send a mail to control@bugs.debian.org like this:
<pre>
user ubuntu-dct@lists.ubuntu.com
usertag <bugnumber> + courtesy-of-dct
</pre>
(courtesy-of-dct is just an example of tag name)

Then you can use http://bugs.debian.org/usertag:ubuntu-dct@lists.ubuntu.com
