{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
* A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__

My name is Dor, I am very involved in the Ubuntu Israel LoCo, and even was a manager in the these forums. I have started my way in Linux at 2006, using Ubuntu since 2007 and being an active user since 2008.
Today I am one of the most active Ubuntu users in Israel, and being an important part of the Israeli LoCo team.

=== Contact information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dor
|-
| '''Email'''
| ddorda [at] ubuntu [dot] com
|-
| '''Jabber'''
| d [dot] dorda [at] gmail [dot] com
|-
| '''IRC'''
| Ddorda
|-
| '''Launchpad'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ddorda
|-
| '''Blog'''
| http://ddorda.useopensource.net (Hebrew)
|}

=== Activities ===
* Active Ubuntu and Free Open Source Software user in Israel.
* Israeli LoCo's Point of Contact since April 2010.
* Translating and promoting the Hebrew needs of Ubuntu. official member of the <nowiki>[[https://edge.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-l10n-he|Ubuntu Hebrew Translators]]</nowiki>
* One of the most active <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-il.com/forums/memberlist.php?mode=&sk=d&sd=d|users]]</nowiki> (<nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-il.com/forums/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=68|Profile]]</nowiki>).
* Admin of the new <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.com/site|Ubuntu-IL site]]</nowiki>.
* Developer of <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-drupal|Ubuntu-Drupal project]]</nowiki>.
* Writing guides for the Hebrew users.
* Publishing Ubuntu news in Hebrew on my <nowiki>[[http://ddorda.useopensource.net|blog]]</nowiki>.

=== Contributions ===
* Translated hundred of applications, thousands of strings.
* Built the new <nowiki>[[http://ubuntu-il.com/site|portal of Ubuntu Israel LoCo]]</nowiki> using Drupal and Ubuntu-Drupal.
* Made all the RTL work for <nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu-drupal|Ubuntu-Drupal project]]</nowiki>.
* Wrote guides for ubuntu in [[http://ubuntu-il.com/forums/search.php?keywords=&terms=all&author=Ddorda&fid[]=19&sc=1&sf=titleonly&sk=t&sd=d&sr=posts|Ubuntu-IL forums]] (4) and in my <nowiki>[[http://ddorda.useopensource.net/category/guides|blog]]</nowiki> (14).
* Helped to arrange LoCo meetings and Release parties.
* more than 6500 total Karma.
* Translated <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org|SpreadUbuntu]]</nowiki> to <nowiki>[[http://spreadubuntu.neomenlo.org/he|Hebrew]]</nowiki>.
* Was a manager in <nowiki>[[http://www.ubuntu-il.com/|Ubuntu-IL forums]]</nowiki> and just left the administration (I need to change the direction they are heading).

=== Future Goals ===
* Increase activity in Israel with regards to Ubuntu and within Ubuntu-IL, I intend to be part of more free events.
* Make Ubuntu more popular in my country.
* Make Hebrew to be one of the most translated languages in Ubuntu.
* Increase the quality of the Hebrew translation of Ubuntu.

=== Testimonials for Membership Application ===
* <nowiki>[[MTecknology]]</nowiki> - Ddorda has been very active in the Ubuntu-Drupal project. He has helped find bugs with the theme and has contributed an RTL file for RTL languages. He has become a member of the ~ubuntu-drupal-themes development team for his contributions.

* <nowiki>[[EyalLevin]]</nowiki> - Dor is one of the most active users in the Israeli LoCo. Besides translating Ubuntu into Hebrew, helping out in the forums and promoting the Israeli LoCo in general, he is a great person who shares his joyful spirit everywhere he goes. Dor is definitely an asset to the Ubuntu community.

* <nowiki>[[lajjr|LeoJackson]]</nowiki> - Dor has been very helpful he can be a person to turn to in time of need. He keeps his focus on the job at hand and completes in a timely manner. A great asset to the Ubuntu Community.  

----
CategoryHomepage
