{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Dan Streetman, apply for SRU Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dan Streetman
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ddstreet
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ddstreet
|}

== Who I am ==
I started with UNIX is 1993, using Solaris, and then moved to Linux in 1997 using Slackware, Red Hat, and now Ubuntu. I began Linux kernel development in 2001, in the USB subsystem, and have contributed since then in various kernel subsystems including memory management, networking, and crypto.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I joined Canonical in 2015 as part of the Support and Technical Services Engineering team, and have been working on problems that reach into many different parts of Ubuntu; the kernel, networking, multipath, udev, and more. I enjoy digging deep into technical details and solving problems.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
My sponsored uploads:
* http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Dan+Streetman
* https://launchpad.net/~ddstreet/+uploaded-packages

Ubuntu Kernel bug fix contributions not shown in above sponsored uploads:

* attached block devices not showing up
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/linux/+bug/1479031

* using ipsec, many connections result in no buffer space error
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/vivid/+source/linux/+bug/1486670

* Soft lockup with "block nbdX: Attempted send on closed socket" spam
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1505564

* kswapd0 100% CPU usage
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/linux/+bug/1518457

* lots of printk to serial console can hang system for long time
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1534216

* bonded interfaces in bridge do not have LRO turned off
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1547680

* nvme drive probe failure
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1626894

* move nvme driver to linux-image
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1640275

* NVMe drives in Amazon AWS instance fail to initialize
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/linux/+bug/1648449

* export nvme drive model/serial strings via sysfs 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1649635

* NVMe driver regression for non-smp/1-cpu systems
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1651602

* Xen MSI setup code incorrectly re-uses cached pirq
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/zesty/+source/linux/+bug/1656381

* VLAN SR-IOV regression for IXGBE driver
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1658491

* Amazon I3 Instance Buffer I/O error on dev nvme0n1
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux-aws/+bug/1668129

=== Areas of work ===

Most of my work is done in the kernel, both upstream and in Ubuntu's branches.  However, I also make fixes to various packages as I, or Canonical customers or public Ubuntu users, find bugs in them that I am in a position to fix.

=== Things I could do better ===

Time management is difficult for everyone, as we never have enough time to complete everything we want to do.  I hope to manage my time better, balancing work and family while also continuing to contribute upstream.

=== Plans for the future ===

Keep improving Ubuntu and Linux in general!

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Documentation is sometimes hard to come by, or out of date.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I have had the privilege of working with Dan for the past year and I know him as a knowledgable, thorough and
steady colleague. He has made many contributions to Ubuntu and it would be a great win for all of us to have Dan approved as a SRU Developer. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fnordahl]]</nowiki> 
Dan has the follow through, positive attitude and drive to get things upstream that is essential for any SRU.  Been working with him as part of my role in Support. Definite +1. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bryanquigley]]</nowiki> 
Dan has helped me with a number of bugs, and I've followed his work on several of the NVME bugs listed above. I'm always impressed with his commitment to the quality of his work. This is a logical next step, and a good thing for the community. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:markthomas]]</nowiki> 
I had various opportunities to see Dan's work on SRUs and I remember them to be of sufficient high quality, demonstrating more than enough knowledge of the SRU process. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:sil2100]]</nowiki> ----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''
=== Eric Desrochers ===
==== General feedback ====

I have sponsored a few packages from Dan over the year and the ones I have seen were high quality.
Dan has the desire to do things right and he always accept constructive comments/feedbacks with a positive attitude. 

He understands the principles of debian packaging and the SRU process and he is not afraid to ask questions when needed.
As a SRU uploader, it is always a pleasure to sponsor a patch from Dan, and I think he would be a great addition to the SRU uploader launchpad team.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

Dan is a colleague and I work with him for the past 2 years now. Dan's role is to drive bugs into resolution by troubleshooting, fixing bugs, providing guidance & workarounds, for different areas of expertise which may cover areas such as: kernel, drivers, virtualization, network, cloud, storage setups, ... and physical/virtual environment orchestration.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Nothing I can think of...

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slashd]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>

=== Martin Pitt ===

I only sponsored one SRU (<nowiki>[[https://launchpad.net/bugs/1609898|isc-dhcp]]</nowiki>) for Dan, which was relatively simple: backporting a patch from Debian to a native package (so no patch system involved). He handled all the SRU description, documentation, changelog, policy, following up to questions, etc. correctly, and all went well with this SRU.

However, this is a sample size of one, so I abstain from a recommendation and just add it as a data point.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:pitti]]</nowiki> 
=== Nishanth Aravamudan ===
==== General feedback ====
I sponsored two packages for Dan. I found an issue with them (no bug closure), but Dan was responsive on IRC to amending the uploads (I ended up doing it as part of the sponsorship). In my non-sponsorship interaction with Dan, he has always been prompt and willing to adjust to recommendations.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
While not strictly relevant to this membership, I also have worked with Dan in the past at a prior company and had an excellent working relationship with him.

Similar to Martin, my sample size is small, so I think I need to abstain from a recommendation.

-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:nacc]]</nowiki> <<DateTime>>

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====
</pre>

----
