{|
  | '''Warning'''
  * This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
  * '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
  * '''Links''' may not work and there may be formatting issues.
  * A '''compressed''' version with images and the original syntax is in the repo '''Releases'''.
|}

__TOC__



=== About Me ===

I started with UNIX is 1993, using Solaris, and then moved to Linux in 1997 using Slackware, Red Hat, and now Ubuntu.  I began Linux kernel development in 2001, in the USB subsystem, and have contributed since then in various kernel subsystems including memory management, networking, and crypto.  I joined Canonical in 2015 as part of the Support and Technical Services Engineering team, and have been working on problems that reach into many different parts of Ubuntu; the kernel, networking, multipath, udev, and more.  I enjoy digging deep into technical details and solving problems.

=== Contact Information ===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| IRC
| ddstreet
|-
| GTalk
| dan.streetman@canonical.com
|-
| Email
| dan.streetman@canonical.com ddstreet@ieee.org
|-
| Website
| https://launchpad.net/~ddstreet
|}

=== Applications ===

* <nowiki>[[ddstreet-UbuntuContributingDeveloperApplication|Contributing Developer]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[ddstreet-UbuntuSRUDeveloperApplication|SRU Developer]]</nowiki>

* <nowiki>[[ddstreet-coredeveloper|coredev]]</nowiki>

=== Contributions ===

My sponsored uploads:
* http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Dan+Streetman
* https://launchpad.net/~ddstreet/+uploaded-packages

Bug fix contributions:

* attached block devices not showing up
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/linux/+bug/1479031

* using ipsec, many connections result in no buffer space error
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/vivid/+source/linux/+bug/1486670

* Soft lockup with "block nbdX: Attempted send on closed socket" spam
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1505564

* kswapd0 100% CPU usage
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/linux/+bug/1518457

* lots of printk to serial console can hang system for long time
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1534216

* systemtap does not work on trusty lts-vivid kernel
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/systemtap/+bug/1545173

* systemtap does not work on wily kernel, hrtimer_get_res 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/wily/+source/systemtap/+bug/1547644

* bonded interfaces in bridge do not have LRO turned off
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1547680

* systemtap does not work on xenial, struct module changes
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/systemtap/+bug/1557673

* multipath does not set fiberchannel params correctly
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/1578654

* dhclient incorrectly assumes a /64 ipv6 prefix
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/isc-dhcp/+bug/1609898

* nvme drive probe failure
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1626894

* move nvme driver to linux-image
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1640275

* NVMe drives in Amazon AWS instance fail to initialize
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/linux/+bug/1648449

* export nvme drive model/serial strings via sysfs 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1649635

* NVMe driver regression for non-smp/1-cpu systems
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1651602

* Xen MSI setup code incorrectly re-uses cached pirq
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/zesty/+source/linux/+bug/1656381

* VLAN SR-IOV regression for IXGBE driver
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1658491

* add pull-ca-source to ubuntu-dev-tools
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-dev-tools/+bug/1661324

* Amazon I3 Instance Buffer I/O error on dev nvme0n1
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux-aws/+bug/1668129

=== Future Goals ===

Continue to contribute to the Linux kernel and Ubuntu.

=== Testimonials ===
'''Note:''' If you have anything nice to say about this person, please do add it below along with @ SIG @ (no spaces).  The @ SIG @ command will sign your name and date/time it after you "Save Changes".

I have the pleasure to work with Dan for over a year now at Canonical within the Sustaining Engineering team. I know Dan as a hard working and very serious team player. He also has a very impressive background and profile. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slashd]]</nowiki> - 2017-03-09

I've worked with Dan for several years in a technical capacity. Dan is dedicated to his craft and doesn't hesitate when it comes to supporting Ubuntu and related projects. I believe having Dan as a contributing developer would benefit everyone involved. -- -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:cydizen]]</nowiki>  2017-3-09 19:40:00

I have the privilege of working in the same team as Dan. I view him as a dedicated and proficient contributor with a great sense of responsibility. Having Dan as a Contributing Developer would be a great addition to Ubuntu. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:fnordahl]]</nowiki> 
+1 to Dan joining as a Contributing Developer.  I've been working with him for several years now and he is always a pleasure to work with. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:bryanquigley]]</nowiki> 
I have worked with Dan on a number of nontrivial bugs, and his diligence has consistently produced high-quality results. A wholehearted +1 from me. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:markthomas]]</nowiki> 
I had the pleasure of working with Dan on multiple times while working on Ubuntu bugs. His knowledge on kernel, specifically networking & iproute has saved me a few times. I am +1 on seeing Dan joining as a Ubuntu Developer. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:lborda]]</nowiki> 
I have been working with Dan since he joined Canonical. I recommend Dan for anything he applies to in Ubuntu Community. Simply because in the past years I have seen him taking care of different amount and types of bugs and he has always delivered perfect fixes. From fixing multipath, udev to kernel, Dan has always worked hard in figuring out the problem and in providing the best possible fix. Besides his really deep technical knowledge in Linux Userland & Kernel, Dan is a really easy going person, always discussing technical problems with a smile on his face. Dan has never forced any situation or imposed his thoughts before a really democratic discussion. The past years helped him to learn Debian packaging, essential knowledge for Ubuntu Community. I don't only recommend him but I must say it has been a pleasure working side-by-side with him and I would love to work in any team Dan is working on. -- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:inaddy]]</nowiki> 