{|
| '''Warning'''
* This is a '''readonly''' and '''text-based''' archive of a deprecated wiki.
* '''Images''' and '''attachments''' have been removed to conserve space.
* '''Links''' may not work.
* A '''full compressed version''' of the wiki is available on archive.org
|}

__TOC__



'''I, Dan Streetman, apply for Contributing Developer.'''

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| '''Name'''
| Dan Streetman
|-
| '''Launchpad Page'''
| https://launchpad.net/~ddstreet
|-
| '''Wiki Page'''
| https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ddstreet
|}

== Who I am ==
I started with UNIX is 1993, using Solaris, and then moved to Linux in 1997 using Slackware, Red Hat, and now Ubuntu. I began Linux kernel development in 2001, in the USB subsystem, and have contributed since then in various kernel subsystems including memory management, networking, and crypto.

== My Ubuntu story ==
I joined Canonical in 2015 as part of the Support and Technical Services Engineering team, and have been working on problems that reach into many different parts of Ubuntu; the kernel, networking, multipath, udev, and more. I enjoy digging deep into technical details and solving problems.

=== My involvement ===
=== Examples of my work / Things I'm proud of ===
My sponsored uploads:
* http://ubuntu-dev.alioth.debian.org/cgi-bin/ubuntu-sponsorships.cgi?render=html&sponsoree=Dan+Streetman
* https://launchpad.net/~ddstreet/+uploaded-packages

Bug fix contributions:

* attached block devices not showing up
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/+source/linux/+bug/1479031

* using ipsec, many connections result in no buffer space error
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/vivid/+source/linux/+bug/1486670

* Soft lockup with "block nbdX: Attempted send on closed socket" spam
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1505564

* kswapd0 100% CPU usage
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/linux/+bug/1518457

* lots of printk to serial console can hang system for long time
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1534216

* systemtap does not work on trusty lts-vivid kernel
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/systemtap/+bug/1545173

* systemtap does not work on wily kernel, hrtimer_get_res 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/wily/+source/systemtap/+bug/1547644

* bonded interfaces in bridge do not have LRO turned off
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1547680

* systemtap does not work on xenial, struct module changes
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/systemtap/+bug/1557673

* multipath does not set fiberchannel params correctly
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/multipath-tools/+bug/1578654

* dhclient incorrectly assumes a /64 ipv6 prefix
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/isc-dhcp/+bug/1609898

* nvme drive probe failure
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1626894

* move nvme driver to linux-image
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1640275

* NVMe drives in Amazon AWS instance fail to initialize
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/yakkety/+source/linux/+bug/1648449

* export nvme drive model/serial strings via sysfs 
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/linux/+bug/1649635

* NVMe driver regression for non-smp/1-cpu systems
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1651602

* Xen MSI setup code incorrectly re-uses cached pirq
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/zesty/+source/linux/+bug/1656381

* VLAN SR-IOV regression for IXGBE driver
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux/+bug/1658491

* add pull-ca-source to ubuntu-dev-tools
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-dev-tools/+bug/1661324

* Amazon I3 Instance Buffer I/O error on dev nvme0n1
** https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/linux-aws/+bug/1668129

=== Areas of work ===

Most of my work is done in the kernel, both upstream and in Ubuntu's branches.

=== Things I could do better ===

Time management is difficult for everyone, as we never have enough time to complete everything we want to do.  I hope to manage my time better, balancing work and family while also continuing to contribute upstream.

== Plans for the future ==
=== General ===

Continue contributing to the kernel and Ubuntu packages.

=== What I like least in Ubuntu ===

Documentation is sometimes hard to come by, or out of date.

----
== Comments ==
''If you'd like to comment, but are not the applicant or a sponsor, do it here. Don't forget to sign with `@``SIG``@`.''

I have the pleasure to work with Dan for over a year now at Canonical within the Sustaining Engineering team. I know Dan as a hard working and very serious team player. He also has a very impressive background and profile. <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:slashd]]</nowiki> - 2017-03-09

----
== Endorsements ==
''As a sponsor, just copy the template below, fill it out and add it to this section.''

=== Louis Bouchard ===
==== General feedback ====
I have sponsored two of Dan's packages so far and expect to be sponsoring even more in the near future. Dan's attention to details is notable and the quality of is packaging work is quite good. I don't have any hesitation to endorse him for Contributing developer as I expect him to get more involved in the Ubuntu Community and gain more responsabilities.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
I specifically remember some work on the multipath-tools packages where we had concurrent fixes to be done on the same package. Dan was always attentive to the other side of things.

==== Areas of Improvement ====
His packaging skills will continue to evolve but is already in the right direction.
-- <nowiki>[[LaunchpadHome:louis-bouchard]]</nowiki> 

=== Robie Basak ===
==== General feedback ====
In addition to the set of SRUs I have sponsored, I have also seen other activity from Dan on my normal rounds. While I only have specific experience working directly with him on just this bug, I think this work should certainly be counted when considering whether his contributions in aggregate meet the "significant and sustained" requirement.

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====

I have sponsored <nowiki>[[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vlan/+bug/1224007|one bugfix]]</nowiki> for Dan in the development release and subsequently sponsored the corresponding SRU into three stable releases. Dan handled review and process feedback well, updated his debdiffs promptly and we got the fix uploaded.

==== Areas of Improvement ====

Nothing from my limited experience in working with Dan; keep up the good work!

----
=== TEMPLATE ===
<pre>
=== <SPONSORS NAME> ===
==== General feedback ====

==== Specific Experiences of working together ====
''Please add good examples of your work together, but also cases that could have handled better.''
==== Areas of Improvement ====

</pre>

----
